Praise for Juan Carlos “JC” Santana
“JC’s Total Body Transformation is a must-have book for anyone looking to enhance 
performance and transform their body! All the programs you could ever want, in one 
location, built by an industry leader in fitness!”
Cliff Edberg 
Senior National Program Manager (Personal Training) for Life Time
“Juan Carlos Santana is one of the true thought leaders in strength and conditioning. 
JC’s Total Body Transformation is a must for anyone seeking to improve their fitness.”
Jose Antonio, PhD 
Sports Scientist at Nova Southeastern University and  
CEO of International Society of Sports Nutrition (ISSN)
“If you are looking for a one-stop shop for functional training and fitness, look no 
further than JC’s Total Body Transformation!”
Douglas Kalman, PhD, RD, FACN, FISSN 
Adjunct Professor at Nova Southeastern University
“The practicality and usefulness of JC’s Total Body Transformation for directing others 
in their pursuit of optimum conditioning are second to none.”
Darryn S. Willoughby, PhD, CSCS, CISSN, EPC, CNS, FACSM, FISSN, FACN, FASEP 
Professor of Exercise/Nutritional Biochemistry and Molecular Physiology at Baylor University
“Whether you are an expert or a beginner, young or old, serious or casual about fitness, 
JC’s Total Body Transformation is the one book you should have on your shelf. Read it, 
absorb it, do it, and BE TRANSFORMED.”
David Woynarowski, MD 
Expert in Longevity and Regenerative Medicine and Coauthor of Immortality Edge and  
“Stem Cells Targeting Inflammation as Potential Anti-Aging Strategies and Therapies”
“If you’re seeking a complete body transformation or a dramatic improvement in 
athletic performance, you must follow JC’s training methodologies. He is a master 
at program design, creating safe and effective workouts that deliver serious results.”
Carla Sanchez, CSCS 
Owner of Performance Ready Fitness Studio, Two-Time Ironman, and IFBB Pro
“JC Santana has been at the apex of functional training in the fitness industry for over 
25 years! The training methods in JC’s Total Body Transformation provide you, the fit-
ness professional, with a dynamic, essential text, including exercises and pertinent 
information to train active individuals. Teaching at the university level for many years, 
I would recommend this book to all of my students and university athletes, plus as a 
text for any strength training systems course.”
B. Sue Graves, EdD, FACSM, ACSM CEP 
Department of Exercise Science and Health Promotion, Florida Atlantic University

“JC brought me back from the brink of disaster with his training. I had a back injury 
resulting in eight screws in my lumbar spine! Using many of the protocols in this 
book, I’m now one of the top 15 fighters in the UFC middleweight division! Get this 
book in order to train like a champion.”
Cezar “the Mutant” Ferreira 
MMA Fighter–UFC Middleweight Contender,  
Three-Time Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu World Champion,  
Winner of Globo’s The Ultimate Fighter: Brazil
“The training methods in this book have helped me compete at the highest level in the 
UFC. JC has a way of making the complex very simple to understand and that allows 
me to get the most out of my training. Get this book and experience what I experience 
every week—the IHP way!”
Gilbert “Durinho” Burns 
MMA Fighter–UFC Lightweight Contender,  
Three-Time Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu World Champion
“I have trained under JC’s care for four years, and that experience has launched me 
into the top rakings of the middleweight division. The training found inside JC’s Total 
Body Transformation has allowed me to go from a good amateur to a top prospect in 
pro boxing! This book is the real deal! No fluff here.”
Luis “Cuba” Arias 
Top-Ranked Professional Boxer, USBA Middleweight Champion
“To climb the seven summits, you have to be in tip-top shape, psychically, emotion-
ally, and physically. The spiriemotional coaching and training protocols JC shares in 
JC’s Total Body Transformation played a pivotal role in each of my summits! Follow the 
path this book sets and summit your next climb!”
Ruben Payan, Jr. 
Seven Summiter
“I’m a busy mother of two and for the last eight years I have trusted JC’s training 
methods to keep me looking better at 41 than I did in high school! I have used many 
of the protocols in JC’s Total Body Transformation to get me ready for my photo shoots 
and stay lean and firm. I can only tell you one thing—they work!”
Gina Bussani

Juan Carlos “JC” Santana
JC’s Total Body 
JC’s Total Body 
JC’s Total Body 
Transformation
Transformation
Transformation
The Very  Best  Workouts for Strength, 
Fitn ess, and Function

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Names: Santana, Juan Carlos, 1959- author.
Title: JC’s total body transformation : the very best workouts for strength, 
   fitness, and function / Juan Carlos “JC” Santana.
Other titles: Total body transformation
Description: Champaign, IL : Human Kinetics, 2019. 
Identifiers: LCCN 2018039301 (print) | LCCN 2018054827 (ebook) | ISBN 
   9781492572763 (epub) | ISBN 9781492563181 (PDF) | ISBN 9781492563174 
   (print)
Subjects: LCSH: Physical fitness. | Exercise.
Classification: LCC GV481 (ebook) | LCC GV481 .S264 2019 (print) | DDC 
   613.7--dc23
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2018039301
ISBN: 978-1-4925-6317-4 (print)
Copyright © 2019  by Juan Carlos “JC” Santana
All rights reserved. Except for use in a review, the reproduction or utilization of this work in any 
form or by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including 
xerography, photocopying, and recording, and in any information storage and retrieval system, is 
forbidden without the written permission of the publisher.
This publication is written and published to provide accurate and authoritative information relevant 
to the subject matter presented. It is published and sold with the understanding that the author and 
publisher are not engaged in rendering legal, medical, or other professional services by reason of their 
authorship or publication of this work. If medical or other expert assistance is required, the services 
of a competent professional person should be sought.
Senior Acquisitions Editor:  Michelle Maloney; Senior Developmental Editor: Cynthia McEntire; 
Managing Editor:  Miranda K. Baur; Copyeditor: Michelle Horn; Proofreader:  Ivonne B. Ward; 
Senior  Graphic Designer: Joe Buck;  Cover Designer: Keri Evans; Cover Design Associate: Susan 
Rothermel Allen; Photograph (cover): Top, Juan Carlos “JC” Santana; left, Pollyana FMS/ Moment/ 
Getty Images; middle, Ozimician/ iStock/ Getty Images; right, g-stockstudio/ iStock/ Getty Images; 
Photographs (interior): © Juan Carlos “JC” Santana; Photo Production Manager: Jason Allen; 
Senior Art Manager: Kelly Hendren; Illustrations:  © Human Kinetics; Printer:  Sheridan Books
We thank the Institute of Human Performance in Boca Raton, Florida, for assistance in providing 
the location for the photo shoot for this book.
Human Kinetics books are available at special discounts for bulk purchase. Special editions or book 
excerpts can also be created to specification. For details, contact the Special Sales Manager at Human 
Kinetics.
Printed in the United States of America
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
The paper in this book is certified under a sustainable forestry program.
Human Kinetics
P.O. Box 5076
Champaign, IL 61825-5076
Website: www.HumanKinetics.com
In the United States, email info@hkusa.com or call 800-747-4457.
In Canada, email info@hkcanada.com.
In the United Kingdom/Europe, email hk@hkeurope.com.
For information about Human Kinetics’ coverage in other areas of the world,
please visit our website: www.HumanKinetics.com
E7272

I dedicate this book to my parents, Arnaldo and Celerina Santana, for being  
the guiding light of our entire family. 

ivAcknowledgments vi
Introduction viii
PART I Programming Functional Training
CHAPTER 1 Train for Results                             3
CHAPTER 2 Program Framework                                     9
CHAPTER 3 Assess and Progress                       15
PART II Body Transfo rmation
CHAPTER 4 Legs and Hips                              23
CHAPTER 5 Abs and Core                              49
CHAPTER 6 Arms                                       67
CHAPTER 7 Shoulders                                  85
CHAPTER 8 Chest                                     111
CHAPTER 9 Back                                      129Contents

vPART III Athletic Movement
CHAPTER 10 Jumping                                   151
CHAPTER 11 Speed                                     163
CHAPTER 12 Agility                                     175
PART IV Athletic Endurance
CHAPTER 13 Lower-Body Metabolics                   191
CHAPTER 14 Upper-Body Metabolics                   197
CHAPTER 15 Total-Body Metabolics                    209
PART V Putting It Together
CHAPTER 16 Nutrition and Recovery                   221
CHAPTER 17 Programming for Success                 239
Contributors 253
About the Author 254

viAcknowledgments
Over time I have observed the importance of practice and experience, as opposed to 
formal education. Although I certainly value formal education, I now fully understand 
that education without experience is just information. Therefore, I acknowledge and 
treasure all that my former teachers, coaches, colleagues, and friends have shared with 
me. I am especially grateful to the Institute of Human Performance (IHP) for being a 
cauldron of creative energy for almost 18 years.
Considering the many social and cultural changes I witnessed in my life, I feel 
blessed to have been born during an era when old values and principles still drove 
social culture. My parents, Celerina and Arnaldo Santana, just celebrated their 65th 
wedding anniversary. That’s just one small indication of the character these two angels 
have modeled for me and our family. To them I dedicate all of my works, for they are 
the reason I developed my work ethic, perseverance, and never-ending dedication to 
my family and career. They instilled in me my greatest virtues. Without a doubt, my 
parents are the finest people I know, which reminds me how lucky I am every day. I 
will never write a book in which I don’t acknowledge them with this much passion.
My sisters Belkis and Moni (Godchild) have been with me through every up and 
down. They have been sources of comfort, strength, laughter, and accountability. They 
nurtured me and never let me get away with not being accountable. Accountability 
has always been at the forefront of our family, and these two have always held my 
feet to the fire with love. I thank them for their love and support, and credit them for 
helping me become and stay strong.
My parents taught me that family was number one, and my firstborn, Rio, helped me 
truly understand what that meant. Rio came into my life when I needed him the most 
and made a man of me, not with pain, but with laughter and amazement. I will always 
love him for the gift he is. Now I have the pleasure of working with him every day, 
watching him turn into a man while running the family business. This is another gift 
IHP gave me—a safe haven and a bright future for my son. My three other children—
Caila, Dante, and Mia—are equal gifts. All are brilliant and special in their own way. 
Caila is my beautiful hippie, a loving, artistic, independent gift in my life. She is now 
working at IHP , and I hope she falls in love with it like Rio has. Dante is my engineer, 
blessed with a brilliant mind and a sense of humor. He keeps all of us in stitches with 
his memorized movie quotes. I’m amazed by how much information his brain holds and 
how bright he is. He is true gift to the family. Mia is the queen of elegance and likely 
a future attorney. She can argue her case well (reminds me of someone else I know). 
Mia gets along with everyone, is very loving and funny, and is gifted in all sorts of 
conversation. These four angels are my driving force, and I thank them for being that. 
Happily, I take great pride in that they see me as somewhat of a dinosaur. They claim 
everything with me turns into a lesson or lecture of some kind. I remind them that my 
job is to educate them on the essentials of human character, which means calling out 
the craziness I often see in today’s society. I hope one day they will truly know and 
feel my undying love for them. Everything I do is to secure their future and teach them 
what is possible with hard work. Finally I cannot mention my children without giving 
due credit to the great women who helped raise them. Annie Aponte (Rio’s mom) and 
Debbie Santana (Caila, Dante, and Mia’s mom) have been instrumental in caring for our 

vii Acknowledgments
children, and I owe them a lifetime of gratitude for the love and support only mothers 
can bring to the upbringing of children. Thank you both.
For many years, my huge family in Miami served as a support community. The 
strength of this community was especially clear during major holidays. For three 
decades, our reunions were epic. Now, many of the old wise ones have passed on and 
the little ones started their own families. Our get-togethers are less frequent. Thank you 
to all of my aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, and cousins for being part of my upbringing 
and the foundation of my family values. You, too, are part of this work and its success.
I have had the great pleasure and honor of sharing the stage with some of the bright -
est minds in the fitness industry. I have followed in the steps of giants. My coaches 
and teachers also played a huge role in shaping me into the man I am. From my wres -
tling coach (Andy Siegel) to my professional role models (e.g., Steve Cannavale, Dr. 
Anthony Abbott, Jose Antonio, Dr. Doug Kalman, Stu McGill, and Gary Gray), from 
my college professors (e.g., Dr. Graves, Dr. Whitehurst) to NSCA beacons such as Lee 
Brown, I thank you all for your knowledge, wisdom, and support. There has never 
been a call they did not answer, and for that I will forever be grateful. I thank Perform 
Better and Chris Poirier for giving me my start. Thank you, Chris, I will never forget 
my beginnings with you and PB.
A man is nothing without great friends and partners. Thank you, G, for coming 
into my life at the right time, and for the patience, laughter, fun, conversations, and 
support especially during my heavy schedule. From my Callahan Plaza friends to 
my new additions, I thank all of you for being part of my life. You always took care of 
me, made me laugh, allowed me to laugh and love without fear. You all were the light 
and beacons I needed to stay on the right path during life’s biggest challenges and 
helped me get to the other side without a scratch. The list is long and distinguished, 
but here is the short list: Mark B., Pierro and Gina B., Rocky D., Guy F., Scott G., Jeff H., 
Mark M., Roly O., Carlos P ., Barry P ., Lizzi R., Billy R., Scott S., Kado T., Dave W., and 
members of the band Heaven!
My deepest gratitude goes to my IHP family, who served as models and assisted in 
the creation of this book. Guys, we got this done. You rock! Thank you to Rio, Adam, 
Andy, Katie, Jordan, Gandhi, Braden, Michelle, Rodrigo, Jess, Luis, and our photog -
rapher Emily Rollin. I want to thank IHP international for carrying our message far 
beyond the borders of the United States: Ruben Payan, Fernando Jaeger, Juan Pablo 
Perez, Juan Andres Garcia, Eduardo and Kimberly Poveda, Justo and Marisa Aon, 
Connie Beaulieu, Luis Noya, and Joel Proskowitz. They have been instrumental in 
launching the IHP global family. Together we have made IHP a worldwide brand. 
Thank you.

viiiIntroduction
Most trainers, athletes, or fitness consumers learn by doing. They don’t necessarily 
want to be taught how to create workouts or programs. Therefore, this book contains 
battle-tested workouts that readers can immediately use and then tweak according 
to their preferences. The art and science of workout design and periodization were 
covered extensively in my previous book, Functional Training (2016, Human Kinetics). 
As the name implies, that book thoroughly defines functional training, explains the 
important concepts that surround it, and describes the periodization model and hybrid 
programming used to avoid overtraining and achieve peak performance. It also pro-
vides more than 110 functional exercises, more than 20 traditional strength exercises, 
yearly programs for 11 sports categories, and ready-to-go express protocols. This text 
expands on the programs provided in Functional Training  and emphasizes the safe and 
effective workouts that have been proven inside the Institute of Human Performance 
(IHP), on the field, and on the road. I strongly recommend getting Functional Training 
as a reference and foundation for this book.
People choose to train for many reasons, including developing a better-looking body, 
getting rid of pain, enhancing performance in an activity or sport, rehabilitating an 
injury, reducing stress, improving health, or simply improving overall quality of life. 
The two most common client goals I see in my training facility are better looks and 
better athletic performance, with the former being the most common reason. This has 
certainly been our collective experience at IHP and my experience as I teach around 
the world. For this reason, this book is focused on body transformation workouts for 
both sexes. I also provide a good dose of performance workouts that include everything 
from conditioning to jump training and agility to speed training. There are more than 
100 workouts in this book. Readers will find a workout they can start with now. There 
is no need to learn how to create workouts, and these workouts have already worked 
for someone else.
This book includes the mind-set and spiritual evolution that are part of the execution 
of these workouts and improved performance or body sculpting. As we say at IHP , 
“The IHP trainer resets the barometer of the human will.” This mind-set and aware -
ness model, called the Spiriemotion Paradigm, not only improves the training process 
and allows one to get more out of training but also can crossover into all aspects of 
life, thus enhancing the quality of life. This is true core training or, as we used to call 
it, training from the inside out.
Bringing a new and much-needed approach to training was a huge impetus behind 
writing this book. Part of this new approach is understanding the value of tirelessly 
repeating the basics. This attitude to training is in stark contrast to the entertainment 
value of “do something different every day” and muscle confusion philosophies that 
dominate the fitness market these days. If you are going to learn anything from this 
section, learn this: Training is not meant to be entertaining! It is meant to be repetitive 
and physically, mentally, and spiritually demanding. It leads to optimizing an intended 
outcome. Training is designed to be effective and obtain results!
Anyone can come up with a workout, but if the workout is so complicated that nobody 
understands it or few can perform it easily, it becomes another useless workout in a 
magazine or video on social media. Likewise, you can go with the muscle confusion 

ix Introduction
nonsense and do something different every day to better stimulate muscle or to avoid 
getting bored with training. However, this approach will never get you the results you 
want; muscle responds to the manipulation of training variables (volume, intensity, 
frequency), not confusion, and any skill is learned by millions of repetitions. If you 
don’t believe this, look at any elite athlete or world-class performer. One thing you 
will consistently find is that they are all excellent at tirelessly repeating the basics; 
they don’t get bored or suffer from muscle confusion. As Geoff Colvin explains in his 
book, Talent Is Overrated: What Really Separates World-Class Performers from Everybody 
Else (2008, Portfolio), the road to excellence is paved with a lot of deliberate practice 
(e.g., 10,000 hours or 10 years’ worth). Training is no different.
The workouts in this book involve relatively high volumes of basic exercises. I 
stayed with the basics because they allow you to get the learning out of the way so 
you can start to load the exercise and get more work done. Then the training can do 
what it’s supposed to do: get you strong, get you toned, get you big, get you in shape, 
or perfect a skill. If you are constantly learning or perfecting an exercise, you never 
get to complete the right volume with the right load or speed, and therefore you will 
never get the results you are looking for. Only by perfecting an exercise can you start 
to work in the effective training zone. As I say, “In order to start the real training, you 
have to get the learning out of the way.” All the workouts in this book are based on 
performing high numbers of sets or repetitions. In other words, we will be doing work.
As a trainer, I always explain the importance of repetition and basics to my client. 
Although athletes are used to grueling repetitions, I still harp on the importance of 
deliberately practicing the basics. I did not coach people back from comas, get athletes 
ready for competition, or train the U.S. Army Special Forces with lies and false prom -
ises. I am very straightforward with all my clients and athletes.
• I’m a performance coach and personal trainer and am very proud of the title. I’m 
not here to amuse or entertain. I’m here to coach clients through the necessary 
steps that will get them to the goals they outlined when they hired me.
• We are here to do the right amount of work to get the job done, with an emphasis 
on the words right and work.
• These workouts are based on science but driven by results. This means we are 
guided by sound scientific principles and are perfecting the basics that have 
proven successful over time. No pie-in-the-sky exercises or routines.
• There is more to training and performance than the physical. Training is as much 
a spiritual evolution as it is a physical transformation.
If you are a personal trainer or a strength and condition coach, I suggest you con -
sider this professional no-nonsense approach to training your clients and athletes. If 
this is your position, then you will attract these types of clients. If you are a client or 
athlete, I highly recommend you look for a trainer or coach who has this philosophy 
to get you to your destination quickly and safely. The workouts in this book will help 
you implement the repetitive basic concepts because they are very effective and easy 
to understand and perform. Fitness aficionados, athletes, trainers, and coaches will 
find they can immediately use the workouts laid out in this book and safely embark 
on an effective training journey.
This book is organized into parts and chapters that include transformation workouts, 
performance workouts, and conditioning workouts. I created a book that could boast 
more than 100 workouts for everything you need. It is designed to be so comprehensive 
that I could say, “If it’s not in this book, you don’t need it.” With that intent, I pored 

x Introduction
through my folders, studied the last 17 years of programming at IHP , and collaborated 
with some of the best in the world to deliver what I think is the best programming 
and workout book on the market.
However, the real jewel of this book is not the workouts; it’s how we look at training. 
This new perspective on how to view and coach training is what really has taken IHP’s 
training to another level. I have been working on this new paradigm and its effect on 
coaching for the last seven years. After reading this book and performing the routines 
in it with a different mind-set and perspective, your life and training will never be the 
same. Let’s go over this new training and coaching paradigm.
IHP Spiriemotion Paradigm  
(Spirit + Emotion + Motion)
When you got this book, you were expecting to read about exercise, training, physical 
transformation, and being physically ready for anything, and all that will still happen. 
But you will get much more. You will become aware of something that’s organic and 
intuitive, yet you probably never heard it put into words before. You will learn about 
the IHP Spiriemotion Paradigm, the model we use to coach clients and athletes to 
higher levels of performance and, more importantly, a higher level of being. This new 
awareness will improve not only your workouts but also every other aspect of your life.
After 45 years as an athlete and coach, I realized the transformations I witnessed 
in training went beyond the physical. Yes, some who wanted a better body or to win 
a championship got the body of his or her dreams or won the trophy. But the truth is, 
most people did not end up with a six-pack or with a championship belt. Although the 
external changes most people witnessed with training may not have been dramatic, 
their internal changes were nothing short of miraculous. Our fighters stayed the same 
weight (outside of the obvious weight cut) and looked the same for years, but their 
performances went through the roof and many fought their way into top-10 world 
rankings. My NFL players looked the same for their entire careers but had better on-
field performance and lives with each year they trained at IHP . Our personal training 
clients, many of whom were once sedentary and some even depressed, were now happy 
and running 5K or 10K races and even triathlons. In most cases, the performances were 
beyond the visual appearance of the transformation. The “skill versus will” phenom -
ena can be seen everywhere in life, but sport provides a magnifying glass that allows 
everyone to clearly see it. Everyone has witnessed a well-prepared athlete just collapse 
mentally and physically under the stress of the moment.
After seeing great athletes choke and often seemingly lesser athletes persevere, 
I started to wonder what drives the body to win or lose, or endure or surrender. I 
contemplated the important mechanisms of the action of the spirit, the will, the faith, 
and even the famous placebo effect accounted for in scientific studies yet so misun -
derstood. More importantly, I started to look at the connection between the spiritual, 
emotional, and physical, and thereby the connection between physical training and 
spiritual evolution or the fortification of the human will. Now, let’s look at the simi -
larities of training and many of the practices used today for the fortification of the 
human will—or spiritual evolution as I like to call it. Understanding this will change 
the way you train, the way you look at training, and what you get out of your train -
ing. Understanding these changes and how they are applicable to all aspects of life in 
turn changes your life.

xi Introduction
Body, Mind, and Soul Connection
This section may be the most important in terms of changing your life. After reading 
it, you’ll see training as a form of meditation that fortifies the human will. You will 
be able to use these tools in all areas of your life. Pay attention.
The mind, body, and soul are the three components of a person’s being often 
expressed in music, literature, and art, and intuitively we accept these components of 
our being as self-evident. We know that if we are ready to perform and get a call with 
bad news, we could shut down and not be able to perform. Well, what shuts down? 
The emotions (i.e., the mind) shut down the central nervous system, preventing effec -
tive communication to the muscles (i.e., the body), leading to a lack in performance. 
What shuts down the emotions and the mind? The spirit, the will, the soul. What is 
the will, spirit, soul, or whatever controls the emotions?
A saying in some spiritual teachings is, “The past casts a shadow on the present to 
ensure the future will not change.” This means that if we constantly operate with old 
and outdated and limiting beliefs (i.e., an outdated, or limited, workout), we will never 
evolve, and the future will be the same as the past; history repeats itself if you don’t 
learn. What we are (our very being) is the result of our life’s experiences (i.e., the past). 
Some of these experiences were great learning points in our lives and helped us evolve. 
However, some experiences were not so great and left impressions and perceptions (e.g., 
insecurity, fear, and anger) that may keep us stuck. These perceptions and old program -
ming are like clouds that stay above us throughout our lives and keep us from seeing 
the truth, dealing with issues, and accepting things and working on our flaws. This 
spiritual stagnation keeps us from evolving. So how do we get rid of the clouds that 
keep us in the dark? How do we get rid of this old baggage and update our approach to 
training? And more importantly, what does training or this book have to do with this 
spiritual evolution and resetting the human will? Let’s start answering these questions.
The measure of a person is not seen when things are great and going as planned. True 
character is on display when someone is at his or her worst, when things are not going 
right, and when stress is high. Stress is one of the primal triggers that makes us react 
according to what we have been taught (i.e., our old approach to training)—the good, 
the bad, and the ugly. Therefore, overcoming stress can be used as a tool for growth.
For these reasons, many religious disciplines have used stress (e.g., physical pain or 
discomfort) to transcend the physical and evolve spiritually. One needs only to look at 
some of the painful religious ceremonies around the world to see how withstanding 
pain and discomfort has been used throughout history to facilitate some form of spiri -
tual transcendence. Simply observing yoga classes reveals an incremental difficulty in 
the yoga positions as the practitioners progress from novice to expert classes. What do 
the more advanced positions achieve? The more advanced yoga positions obviously 
increase psychological stress by increasing physical stress. This tolerance of physical 
and psychological discomfort forges a deeper connection with the present moment and 
the self. One can only endure what seems impossible by redefining what is possible, 
resetting the barometer of the human will. Therefore, one can conclude that many 
traditions use discomfort to facilitate spiritual transcendence or spiritual evolution.
Exercise and training normally are seen as activities that improve fitness, perfor -
mance, health, and general well-being. We talk about the positive impact that exercise 
has on our fitness and our states of mind due to its effect on the neuromuscular and 
hormonal systems. This is one of the many reasons exercise has a “feel good” or anti -
depressive effect. But just like in religious ceremonies and other spiritual practices, 
exercise is a self-imposed discomfort, pain, or stress that can serve as a vehicle to 

xii Introduction
spiritual transcendence if we simply understand the process and use the feeling of 
effort as a vehicle to fortify our will.
Think about it: When you exercise hard, you start breathing heavily to provide the 
extra oxygen the working muscles need. You may have to slow down or stop so you 
can catch up on your oxygen supply. In essence, that feeling of not having enough 
oxygen due to exercise is a form of voluntary suffocation that’s no different than water -
boarding; you know you are not going to die, but it certainly feels like you will, and 
you succumb (react) to the sensation. Lack of oxygen (suffocation) triggers a primitive 
reaction that always tests the human will. Therefore, when exercise intensity reaches 
a specific point, some individuals will grunt, grimace, cry, complain, or quit. We can 
use our reaction to the stress of exercise to analyze how we interpret and project stress 
in general. Learning to constantly deal with the emotions associated with the stress 
of exercise can teach strategies to better deal with any emotion and transcend beyond 
our current belief system.
At IHP , we use the sensations of suffocation and physical stress to deliberately dis -
cipline the mind and access the spirit (i.e., the will). This process creates an awareness 
of how we have allowed our limiting beliefs to stagnate our view and approach to life’s 
challenges. Changing how we see exercise, effort, and the stress of training allows 
us to begin to change all things related to stress and redefine what we are willing 
to accept and endure. This process of using exercise (motion) to reset the barometer 
of the human will (emotions and spirit) is the IHP Spiriemotion Paradigm. Like in 
all religious disciplines, through specific coaching and practice (i.e., repetitive and 
deliberate training), clients learn to see what was once considered painful, limiting, 
or unpleasant is just an experience with no value or judgment attached to it. In many 
spiritual teachings, this is referred to as staying in the present moment. Eckhart Tolle, 
author of The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment (2004, Namaste Publish -
ing), calls the stillness of the present moment “the Now.” This Spiriemotion Paradigm 
has set IHP coaching apart and has allowed our training take on a whole new meaning.
Summary of IHP’s Spiriemotion Paradigm
Using training to learn to deal with all components associated with the stress 
of exercise, one can learn to do the following:
• Accept emotions without reacting to them, putting a value on them, or 
judging them. The feelings of discomfort from exercise have only the 
meaning you give them. They are not good or bad; they simply are.
• Relax. Stay in the present moment, avoiding unnecessary projections into 
the future. Staying relaxed and focused during each repetition prevents 
sabotaging the next few reps.
Staying connected and relaxed in the moment is, in my opinion, the biggest 
training adaptation everyone makes. People change on a very deep level and 
stay cool with no judgment in the presence of a big challenge, a discomfort, 
a new sensation, or an unknown. This is IHP’s Spiriemotion Paradigm, and it’s 
the essence of true core training because it changes people at their cores. In 
practical terms, the paradox is that it changes people from the inside out by 
driving a stimulus from the outside in.

xiii Introduction
Principles and Process of the IHP Spiriemotion Paradigm
The sum of the experiences of people’s lives sets the level of discomfort at which they 
will start hurting and eventually quit. How people define risk versus reward, pain 
versus pleasure, pride versus shame, strength versus weakness, and success versus 
failure are all part of what determines how people respond to training intensity, how 
hard they are willing to push, and to what point they will go before they mentally 
fail and quit. These perceived emotions and eventual actions have more to do with 
learned behaviors than physiological mechanisms.
When the training gets hard, most people start to show reactions to stress. The 
most common sign is a grimace or other facial expression that shows stress, pain, or 
anguish. They suddenly quit and don’t even want to discuss it. The sign of stress (e.g., 
the grimace on the face) is consistent with and comes from past experiences: This is 
uncomfortable, this is painful, the end is soon coming, and I should be stopping now 
to avoid even more pain. The decision to react and eventually stop the discomfort of 
exertion just because of a feeling based on old beliefs is an example of how old limit -
ing beliefs and false judgment can project into the future and sabotage the present 
moment. The fear of feeling even worse makes people stop. FEAR can be seen as False 
Evidence Appearing Real. Fear is the cloud from the past that casts a shadow on the 
present to ensure the future will not change; you learned to quit when you felt like 
this; therefore, you will always quit when you feel this. This faulty paradigm ensures 
one never evolves. At the grimace or first expression of panic or stress, we say, “Relax 
your face, stay in the moment, stay with me.” No judgment, no past false beliefs, no 
sabotage. What you are feeling is just a feeling—this is what accelerated metabolism 
feels like. Observe it neutrally. Review the various sensations, feelings, or voices in 
your head and see them as a series of floats and people in a parade. Observe them as 
they pass without jumping into the parade. The essence of presence and peace is not 
to clear your mind of thoughts, but to know you are not your thoughts and to allow 
your thoughts to pass as floats pass during a parade.
The intensity and the feeling associated with the level at which people decide to 
stop or quit are never their maximum intensity but rather a percentage of that maxi -
mum intensity they are willing to endure. By repeating the training that elicits this 
feeling, people get used to it, and the feeling is reinterpreted, losing its initial meaning 
and impact. The repetitive nature of training helps us neutralize these feelings, not 
giving them the weight they once had. We learn that feelings by themselves never 
killed anyone and really never hurt anyone; they are just feelings. It’s what we made 
of the feeling that affected our lives. The feeling of exercise and intense effort is simply 
normal accelerated metabolism; that’s it. So, the experience is redefined; this is just 
the feeling associated with this form or level of training, just like the sun is associated 
with daylight and morning, and its absence is not a reason for panic because it simply 
indicates night.
This process of repeatedly experiencing the discomfort associated with high-inten -
sity training allows one to feel the experience without projecting into the future and 
sabotaging the present moment. This means you don’t quit just because training gets 
hard because your perception of hard and how you learn to just observe it constantly 
changes. Over time, what you are willing  to endure constantly changes, thus redefin -
ing your will. By using training and its process as a teachable moment in redefining 
the human will (and thereby the spirit), we can teach and learn the parallel impact 
this evolution has on all aspect of our lives. If that is not a spiritual evolution, then I 
don’t know what would be.

xiv Introduction
Applying the Spiriemotion In and Out of Training
In summary, the IHP Spiriemotion Paradigm uses training to not only fortify the 
body and teach good movement pattern but also reset the barometer of the human 
will (spiritual evolution). This latter adaptation is the fastest and biggest adaptation 
training produces, especially if we know how to teach or learn the coaching associated 
with it. When training, a person will feel all the normal training sensations, especially 
at intense levels. At higher training intensities, everyone changes their demeanors, 
such as their facial expressions. When some outward facial expression shows up in 
response to the effort of training, you will hear an IHP coach say, “Relax your face, 
stay with me; you are almost done, and 9 and 10. You are done. Great job.” After that 
set is over, the teachable moment is at hand. The IHP trainer coaches the client (John, 
in this example) through this process: “John, as you can see, 10 reps were no problem. 
But, at about rep number seven, you began to interpret the sensations you were feel-
ing according to old beliefs and values. (i.e., the drama), and you fell right into it with 
the grunting and faces of anguish. Ten easy reps were made harder than needed, and 
all over nothing—just an old story. This happens in all aspects of life, we assume, we 
project, and we sabotage experiences that could be easy and even enjoyable and make 
them nightmares over nothing (i.e., old stories). This next set is the most important 
set of our session. I want you to complete the next set without reacting to anything in 
your head. No drama for 10 reps. The feeling you will experience at about rep seven 
is not hard or easy, it’s not good or bad, and you don’t like or hate it. The feeling is 
a natural part of getting to 10 reps, which is no mystery because you have already 
done it, and rather easily, may I add. Stay present and understand that what you feel 
is just accelerated metabolism. I will guide you through reps 7 to 10. Just keep your 
face relaxed and stay in the moment—you got this.”
Without fail, John gets through 10 reps without any grunting or facial expressions. 
It may take a little reminding to relax the face from our coach through reps 7 to 10, 
but eventually you see all the IHP-trained clients with expressionless faces when they 
are going through their toughest reps.
Through mindful physical training, you will be able to separate yourself from your 
thoughts or feelings. In essence, your mindful training actually becomes mindless or 
neutral—you stay out of the drama that lives in your mind. This practice is particularly 
important when it comes to negative thoughts, the “he said, she said” drama in your 
mind. If you react to all the negative thoughts that can creep into your mind, such as 
fear, envy, insecurity, jealousy, or inadequacy, your life becomes a drama-filled reality 
show. Not good! Learning not to react to the stress of exercise by not judging or using 
old negative stories but seeing it as just a state of being and just a feeling will teach you 
to do the same with the other stresses in your life. As you train yourself to detach from 
your old story of how much training hurts, how tired you are, and how you want to 
quit, you will also detach from the other sabotages you practice in your daily life. You 
will not only catch yourself when you judge others but also when you judge yourself 
and when you sabotage situations based on your old workout. As you relax your face 
in training, so too you will relax your face in life. When you start “relaxing your face” 
under stress, that shadow of the past will clear and allow you to finally see the reality 
of this moment, the reality of the now, the only reality. Then you will begin to be free 
of the old programs holding you back and free yourself to further evolve as a person.
So relax your face when the training stress appears and you want to grimace. Stay 
in the moment, finish what you started, and practice our Spiriemotion every repeti -
tion, every set, and every workout. Finish the few repetitions left, the few seconds left, 

xv Introduction
or the few yards left with no emotions or judgments attached. Practice this discipline 
in your everyday life. When you practice staying in the moment every repetition of 
training, you practice present-moment awareness many times per week, close to a 
thousand times, in some cases. It is hard for this conscious training not to affect your 
subconscious and seep into other aspects of your life. You actually become aware 
of this phenomenon and start catching yourself wanting to react to something and 
relaxing your face, breathing, just letting it go, and observing it without becoming it. 
This practice improves your quality of life more than any other adaptation physical 
training offers. This is how training helps you spiritually evolve, clearing the clouds 
of the past from the now so you can evolve and your future can change for the better.
Simple and Repetitive
In these days of marketing-driven sales, social media explosion, and shocking sales 
bylines, you hear all kinds of crazy catchphrases. Muscle confusion, the insanity workout, 
and workouts with the word extreme in the titles are just some of the catchy phrases 
being used. Then, of course, you have the booty, abs, and shredding Instagramers 
offering the latest in diet secrets, specialized workouts, and quick results. Finally, you 
have the YouTube channels, where everyone is the star of his or her own video universe 
and can claim anything and become anyone for a few minutes on camera. However, 
if you were to meet some of these people, it would hit you: There is no substance, no 
system, no method, no nothing. The one-hour rap is up.
If you are going to get one thing out of this book, it is this: Nothing will work better 
than the basics. Nothing has changed when it comes to developing excellence in any -
thing. Show me every great performer who has lasted a couple decades at the world 
level, and I will show someone who invested his or her time in perfecting the basics. 
How does a golfer perfect a 320-yard drive? How does a basketball player develop a 90 
percent average from the free throw line? How does a musician perfect his instrument? 
How do weightlifters continue to break records year after year? How do bodybuilders 
develop the incredible bodies we see today? They all master the basics. When perfor -
mance and careers are on the line, the pros don’t fall for the gimmicks; that is left for 
the amateurs. Why are the basics so important, and how do they relate to the content 
in this book? Let’s explore that further.
From a performance standpoint, the basic patterns of movement must be engrained 
in the central nervous system (CNS) in order for the perfect movement to be available 
without thought or special effort. The perfect movement must become more of a reflex 
than a conscious decision, as if that’s the only way the body knows how to do it. From 
a structural standpoint, the efficiency and stability associated with great movements 
are also crucial. The more aligned, stable, and efficient the movement becomes, the 
more perfect it is. This stability and efficiency allow more weight to be used and more 
volume (i.e., more work) to be performed. With more strength and more work, the 
body must change accordingly. Just look at athletes and how their bodies change over 
time, even if changing how the body looks is not a goal. There is also the Spiriemotion 
Paradigm we just discussed. In order to deal with emotions and develop the spiritual 
connection, you must be able to focus and relax your face. You can’t do the inner work 
if you are too busy perfecting the exercise or dealing with the novelty of new train -
ing every session. Novelty is good for entertainment, not training. For this reason, I 
have purposefully kept the workouts in this book simple. I need you to concentrate 
on connecting your brain (i.e., the CNS) to the movement and the muscles without 
overthinking. In other words, let the CNS fire up and drive the body as you quiet the 

xvi Introduction
mind. Don’t let your mind tell you how bored you are, how much it hurts, how hard 
it is, how tired you are, or how good it would feel to stop. That is your old story, and 
it no longer serves you. Working hard on the basics and the simple stuff allows you 
to get more out of your training without creating drama out of your training. This 
repetition and perfection of the basics transfers to life. Concentrate and be grateful 
for the basics and simple things in life such as love, health, family, friends, laughter, 
peace, a sunrise, a sunset, a great conversation, or a child’s first step. These are the 
simple basics of life, and every appreciation is a good solid repetition. Stay simple, 
my friends. Stay simple.

1
PART I
PART I
PART I
Programming 
Functional Training
Training has come a long way in the last four decades. In the past, the only reason people 
trained hard was to prepare for sport or battle. Then the bodybuilding revolution hit, and 
people trained to look a certain way as well. Now people train for all sorts of reasons. Therefore, 
workouts are diverse and many factors are considered to maximize results.
It is very important to know exactly why you are doing something, but often people just do 
things without really understanding why. Part I looks at the various reasons people train and 
the role of those goals when selecting the right approach, mental attitude, and workout. This 
simple analysis can help a person avoid the endless “lift more for the sake of lifting more” war 
that ends up crippling thousands of gym goers.
Part I also provides a detailed account of the workouts throughout the book and their clas-
sifi  cations. Variety, intensity, and safety are discussed because it is important to understand 
these factors when designing a workout.
Finally, part I introduces the difference between periodization and programming and the 
variables to consider when designing and progressing any workout over weeks. A biomechani-
cal assessment is provided to assist you in determining if you have any major defi  ciencies. 
I conclude with a discussion on the concept of conscious training and performing a quality 
repetition. Part I sets the tone for the rest of the book, so enjoy.

This page intentionally left blank

3What are you training for, performance outside the gym or inside the gym? 
When people come to Institute of Human Performance (IHP) to train, I ask 
commonsense questions, but I seem to go in a different direction than most. 
I actually stay on task while I see many trainers ignore the actual answers to their 
questions. This is where the awareness of the real issues at hand begins. Let’s deal 
with the basic reasons people buy a training book or go to a gym.
Reasons to Train
Why do people train? Well, when we ask people why they come into IHP or why they 
are taking up a new training program, it’s usually for looks, health, rehabilitation from 
an injury or surgery, performance in a specific sport, or just a better quality of life. 
Although IHP is a very different commercial gym (i.e., young and high-level athletic 
clientele), the main reason people come into IHP is the same as most other gyms: to 
look better. The athletic population wants to look better when they win, the rehab 
population wants to look better after they rehab, and everyone who is working for a 
better quality of life wants to do so looking better! That is one of the reasons that the 
body transformation portion of this book is as dense as it is. However, even within 
the transformation section, we have workouts with carryover to function. Therefore, 
don’t feel like you have to compromise between function and looks—you can have 
them both.
We should also briefly discuss the impact exercise has on the physical appear -
ance of the body. The stimulus for muscle growth or strength is rather simple, and 
few things work better than the good old-fashioned bodybuilding workouts in this 
book. Therefore, the complexity of routines and special workouts must be questioned. 
Muscles do only one thing: They change length while under tension. The muscle 
simply responds to the distance, the tension, and the speed at which it contracts and 
lengthens. It’s rather a simple process. When muscles are exposed to tension, the fibers 
and cells undergo a disruption. The muscle does not care what created the tension (i.e., 
a sandbag, a barbell, a band, or a machine). Microtears occur when a muscle works 
against tension (i.e., a resistance) with significant intensity. Immediately following 
the cellular disruption, there is an inflammatory response (i.e., the pump) that is felt 
during the training, but some partial and prolonged swelling lasts for some time after 
the initial stimulus. Depending on the level of muscle damage, the swelling can last 
for days, like the swelling left after a contusion to your thigh. This inflammation and 
other repair mechanisms are followed by the remodeling process, and this makes the 
muscles stronger and bigger. This is an oversimplified description of how a muscle Train for Results1 CHAPTER 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 4
is toned or gets bigger. Therefore, to think that a magical exercise, routine, or piece of 
equipment alone will change your body, or a muscle, is really fictional. That idea has 
to be reconciled if you are going to concentrate on the most important thing, which 
is proper training intensity and volume. You simply have to learn to manage your 
perception of training, stay focused, and keep loading and stimulating the muscle to 
grow. That’s how bodybuilders and other athletes do the same exercise and training 
year in and year out and keep getting bigger, faster, and stronger. With these athletes, 
the exercise mode doesn’t change much; the loads and intensity are increased until the 
point of diminishing return or optimal strength is reached. The exercises and workouts 
in this book will be all you need to get the body you want or perform at your best. You 
simply have to execute the training at a higher level than you have before. Using the 
Spiriemotion Paradigm explained in the introduction, you will take your training to 
levels you never even imagined, and your body will reflect this new level of execution.
Since we have given the transformation portion of this book such emphasis, it should 
be noted that virtually all transformation programs require a significant nutritional 
intervention. Most people want to drop weight (i.e., fat) to look better; a small number 
of people are hard gainers who have to battle genetics, age, or some other limitation 
to put on weight. Even muscle gain has a nutritional component to it. I would say the 
fat-loss component most people desire is 80 percent nutrition and 20 percent training. 
After all, most people will tell you they don’t want to look like a bodybuilder; they want 
to look athletic and toned. The physical training needed to tone a muscle is minimal. 
Anyone can train—that’s the easy part! However, the 24/7 dieting or eating lifestyle 
that goes with reducing the fat and allowing the beautiful human anatomy to show 
is a different story. Like training, nutrition has more to do with emotions and spiri -
tual makeup than it does nutritional know-how. Why people eat is more important 
than what people eat because the why usually controls the what. We will address the 
nutritional component later in chapter 16.
People who are looking for better health and even those rehabilitating some form of 
trauma often think that some special training needs to be considered. We have used 
many of the transformation workouts in this book to rehabilitate bodies or bring them 
from the lowest levels of function imaginable to perfect health. The only variable dra -
matically altered is the weight used in an exercise. Range of motion is also an important 
variable to consider when dealing with very low levels of function. However, regardless 
of whether you are manipulating load or range of motion, many of the transformation 
workouts provided in this book make great health and rehabilitative workouts.
Athletes want that edge on the competition, so they are easy to sell on the next 
gimmick. Athletes will try anything to gain a competitive edge, but like everyone 
else, they eventually have to come back to repeating the basics to get ahead of the 
competition. Additionally, we have found that even though they come in asking for 
higher vertical jumps, more speed, or faster changes in direction, most athletes need 
relentless conditioning. For this reason, included in this book are many of the metabolic 
protocols and conditioning drills we have used over the last 18 years. When you go 
through some of the metabolic and conditioning workouts, you will understand why 
IHP athletes outlast the competition.
Point of Diminishing Returns
Every training has a risk-to-reward ratio to consider, as well as a point of diminish-
ing returns. I see many individuals at the gym just looking to lift heavier weights. To 
these people, I ask why and how much strength is enough for what you need? I’m 

5 Train for Results
all about getting stronger for a reason, but when I see senseless weight being pushed 
around for no reason other than lifting heavy stuff, then I start to wonder how much 
of the workout the ego is running and how much of it the brain is running (i.e., logical 
and purposeful training). Before, I used to ask, What’s the most I can train to get the 
results I want? Now I ask, What is the minimum effective training I can undertake 
to get the maximum results? I have changed my position on training because apart 
from basically destroying my body and not wanting anyone else to go through what 
I have, the high-intensity training needed at the highest level of performance has a 
sinister side few talk about.
The high-performance training necessary to excel in sports today is usually inversely 
proportional to long-term health and wellness. The harder you train, the more the 
chances you will run into problems in your 40s and beyond. Strongmen, strength and 
power athletes, bodybuilders, football players (especially linemen and linebackers), 
fighters, and many other athletes involved in hard, intense training don’t typically 
live long and healthy lives when compared to the average population. Additionally, if 
we look at the orthopedic issues many of these athletes experience, often as early as 
their mid-30s, it’s obvious that heavy training also has a heavy price. This is why I try 
to keep my training simple and manipulate my intensity and volume to perfection. I 
never recommend anyone train through  pain and very rarely train to failure. Effort is 
one thing, but pain and total exhaustion is another, and for the most part, not necessary!
At 59, I have many battle scars to show for my decades of “badass” training or ego-
centered stupidity. After two hip replacements, two arthritic knees, and intermittent 
shoulder issues, I can tell you that heavy training is overrated and mostly unjusti -
fied from a scientific and practical standpoint. Yes, it’s cool to pound your chest with 
Olympians and world champions—I did it for more than 20 years. There is a sense of 
accomplishment and ego boost when you can do what most people can’t. I would be a 
liar if I did not admit that there is a certain air of confidence that comes from walking 
into a room, with people knowing you are a badass. But I would also be a liar if I told 
you that had anything to do with anything except the ego. In retrospect, I know that 
80 percent of my training could have been lighter yet more intense and specific, less 
damaging, and more effective. Perhaps if an older and wiser JC Santana had advised 
me when I was young, I would have not needed my surgeries and would be enjoying 
a healthy and pain-free body now. This is one of the reasons I love my job so much. I 
know that my philosophy, training, and teachings are preventing damage, prolonging 
careers, and improving quality of life into the later decades of life.
Since I competed in Olympic weightlifting and powerlifting and these are popular 
methods of training, let’s take a look at their training methods and why they may not 
always be the best option for building muscles or improving performance. Now, I 
competed at the state and national levels in both sports, qualifying and competing in 
the American Open Series (Olympic weightlifting) in 1998 at almost 40 years old. I have 
been coached by two Olympic coaches (Rafael Guerrero and Leo Totten). I also hold a 
level 2 coaching certification with USA Weightlifting. I don’t give this information to 
brag, but to show that I love the sports and enjoyed them with excellent coaching and 
technique. I’m well qualified to make the statements I’m about to make.
Let’s start by saying the efficacy and safety of many lifts and training methods 
depend greatly on how a person is built and not necessarily the technique used. For 
example, if you are not designed to full squat, you may full squat while you are young 
or for a few years but eventually, in some form, your body will collect the biomechani -
cal debt you have accumulated. In my case, I believe many of my issues were brought 
on by the extreme ranges of motion and heavy loads of the Olympic lifts. If the knees, 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 6
hips, and shoulders are not made for the loads and ranges of motion needed for the 
correct execution of the Olympic lifts, these will put a beating on these joints, even 
with good form. If you add bad form to the equation, then you will pay the price that 
many have paid!
Powerlifting is much more forgiving on the flexibility side, but the loads needed 
to be competitive end up eating up the body. If you want to bench 300 to 500 pounds, 
squat 500 to 1,000 pounds, and deadlift 500 to 1,000 pounds, then be ready to pay 
for this heavy training at some point. The human body was not made for this abuse 
(loads and ranges of motion), and although some may apparently get away with it, 
most pay with their joints. Yes, some people may survive it for a few years and a rare 
few for life, but the majority won’t. This is why you will not see any of this extreme 
and questionably effective training in this book. We will use simple and basic exercise, 
concentrating on great form and intense work output. This approach will allow us 
to train heavy enough for what we want and develop as much muscular mass as we 
need, all with minimal to no damage.
Right now, heavy and intense training is very popular. One example is CrossFit. I 
don’t have anything against the sport, and as a sport, CrossFit is no more abusive than 
MMA. However, I witnessed a Wodapalooza (CrossFit competition) in January of 2017 , 
at Bayfront Park in downtown Miami. I saw two days of competition and spent a ton 
of time in the therapy tent and witnessed the injuries, both acute and chronic injuries. 
I was horrified at the lack of proper form I saw during the competition in full back 
squatting, snatching to failure, and overhead squatting. To add insult to injury, all 
were done in a fatigued state. I kid you not—it was an orthopedic surgeon’s dream. I 
see this training going on in many gyms around the world, and outside of competing 
in CrossFit, this training has nothing to do with anything except pretty much guar -
anteeing people will have unnecessary injuries. That is my experience with this style 
of training, from being not only present at competitions, but also in over 30 CrossFit 
gyms all over the world. In my humble opinion, there are better alternatives to achieve 
performance enhancement and body transformation. I have witnessed many of the 
people training in these gyms doing exercises they don’t know how to perform and 
may not even be built for. I fear if they keep it up, they will end up just like me, with 
metal parts all over their bodies and often in some pain or discomfort. Trust me, that’s 
no way to live, and there are better training options.
Training Variables
If repeating the same thing is effective, then what manipulations are needed to keep 
the muscles and body constantly changing? The basic variables we manipulate are 
intensity, volume, and frequency. Manipulation of these variables stimulates muscles 
and the motor learning system to adapt and get us the results we are really looking for. 
These variables and how they are changed through different periods will be covered 
in chapters 2 and 17. A more comprehensive explanation on the manipulation of these 
training variables and the principle of periodization can found in Functional Training, 
and I refer you there for a complete review on this topic.
You may ask if changing up the routine is not a good thing? The answer to that 
question is not as easy as you would think because it all depends on why you are 
changing the routine. If you are changing the routine because you hit a plateau or are 
bored, chances are changing the routine is not the issue; lack of planning and hitting 
the right intensity is. So, changing the routine without changing your focus, intention, 
perspective, and progressive manipulation of the basics variables will do little to noth -

7 Train for Results
ing for you. It may entertain you for a few weeks, but in the long run, you will end up 
with the same issue: Your training will not get you the results you want. If you are a 
personal trainer and your clients are bored, it’s because you are bored, and your clients 
are reflecting your energy back at you. If you are bored with your routine, then you 
have to ask the deeper question of why? If you are uniformed, then you have this book, 
and that will no longer be the case. If someone is bored because they lack knowledge, 
then that knowledge must be acquired and applied. Otherwise, no workout will get 
someone out of a rut, and the cycle continues. Ignorance is one of the main reasons 
the cloud from the past (same thoughtless thinking) is allowed to cast a shadow on 
the present (stay stuck), and if something does not change (awareness and evolution), 
the future does not change (you repeat the same mistake again).
So, what are some good reasons to change a routine? I understand it will take 
changing things up to add some fire into a career or a yearly training program. I get 
it! Something new can add more confidence and a new look. But these changes just 
for excitement must be rare and after establishing a foundation on the basics. Other 
than that, there are still some good reasons to change things up. If you are changing 
your routine because the old one is causing you pain or discomfort, then you have a 
very good reason to look for a new routine, one that uses training methods that don’t 
hurt your body. If, after you have a base, you are changing your routine for a better 
routine with a purpose and more specific training, then that also is a great reason to 
try something new. If you are changing your routine as part of a periodized program 
that allows specially designated peaks and valleys in order to let the body recover and 
peak in an organized fashion, then it is the best reason to change a program.
To summarize, although something new can be positive, changing things up is best 
after establishing the basics. Changes should be centered on specifically progressing 
the training, to get out of pain, or to deliberately follow a periodized program. Other 
than that, you are changing things up because you need to be entertained, and that’s 
no way or reason to train.

This page intentionally left blank

9The workouts in this book are separated into three basic categories: transfor -
mation, movement, and endurance. Since most of what is promoted in gyms, 
popular magazines, and books centers on physical transformation, I provide a 
hefty section on this topic. The transformation section consists of 60 workouts for six 
body parts, with workouts for men and women in each chapter. The transformation 
workouts vary in equipment needs. Some workouts require no equipment, using your 
body weight as the only resistance. Others require minimal equipment such as dumb-
bells, bands, medicine balls, and stability balls. I even include bodybuilding workouts 
that use the standard equipment available in most commercial gyms.
The movement section consists of 20 workouts divided into four different perfor -
mance-oriented abilities, each with five workouts. These workouts also require simple 
equipment, and some don’t require any equipment at all.
The final workout section is the endurance section. There are 20 conditioning work -
outs for four body parts, each with five workouts. As a bonus, I have solicited the help 
of some of the top people in the industry to provide some of their favorite workouts 
and expertise so you will be introduced to some of the workouts the giants in the 
industry use with their clients or athletes. Including the base workouts in each chapter, 
the additional workouts courtesy of my fitness colleagues, and the weekly workouts, 
this book contains about 120 workouts. If it’s not in this book, you likely don’t need it.
Program Classifications
IHP is well known throughout the world for its cutting-edge, intense yet simple train-
ing. We do not adhere to the outdated norms set by traditional dogma. For example, 
we don’t believe in women training versus men training, youth training versus older 
people training, or athlete training versus nonathlete training. At IHP we train abilities, 
not gender, age, status, or any other social classification. If you have the ability, then 
we want you to reach your potential in that ability. Many IHP women train harder 
than many men I have seen in other gyms. We have seen some clients who would be 
considered nonathletes (e.g., attorneys, doctors, pilots) outtrain some of our world-class 
athletes. We have also watched men in their 50s and 60s wipe the floor with teenagers 
and young studs in their 20s. So, at IHP we don’t play the gender, age, or classifica-
tion game as a way to limit or stifle anyone. There are no victims at IHP; come to play 
or stay home. The workouts in this book have been used by a wide array of clients 
at various training levels. These workouts can be performed at crushing intensities 
or a more moderate pace to provide a decent level of fitness and even rehabilitation.Program Framework2 CHAPTER 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 10
Even though we don’t differentiate between men and women when training at IHP , 
we have divided the transformation workouts in this book by sex. Why did we do that? 
First, ease of use and classification. Not everyone can come to IHP and be coached 
professionally through these workouts or have the workouts perfectly adjusted for 
them. Many people, especially women, have misconceptions of what training is, 
what it will do, and what it won’t do. After all, how many times have we heard a 
woman say, “I don’t want to lift weights because I don’t want to get big and look like 
a man” or something similar? Likewise, how many times have we heard coaches or 
men say, “In order to get big, you need to lift heavy loads for few repetitions (e.g., 3 
repetitions)?” These myths, fears, and lack of education create the need for simple 
education and classification so people can understand and trust the information in 
the absence of knowledge. This is one of the reasons we separated the men’s and 
women’s transformation workouts.
Another obvious reason is the different goals between men and women. Whether it’s 
a specific body part or a specific look, men and women differ quite a bit. For example, 
for the most part, women don’t care how much they bench, but men do. Men want 
to get big and strong, while women want to be slender and toned. Women want the 
backs of their arms, butts, and thighs tight, while men want the big V , with the chest 
and the guns on display. Generally speaking, the women’s workouts will be higher 
volumes with lower weights and the men’s workouts will provide more work with 
heavier loads. However, a man can certainly use one of the exercises from a woman’s 
workout and use the light loads and high repetitions as a flush set or as a finishing 
exercise. Likewise, a woman can take a workout from the men’s section and use it 
to gain strength and accelerate the increase of bone density to combat osteoporosis. 
Therefore, there is a ton of carryover between the men’s and women’s workouts in this 
book, and we will expand on this in the workout chapters. All other workouts basically 
are the same for both men and women; conditioning and athletic skills have no gender 
bias. Each workout will provide basic progressions, regressions, and alternatives. You 
will get enough variety to make any adjustment you need.
Variety
Within the context explained earlier, we can easily mix and match workouts as well 
as exercises within a workout. This means we can put half of a back workout and half 
of a chest workout together and create an awesome upper-body workout. We can also 
take a chest workout and exchange one or two exercises from another chest workout 
to create a unique workout that better suits you. Finally, most compound exercises (i.e., 
exercises that move multiple joints at the same time) lend themselves to different repeti -
tion ranges, so feel free to take an exercise listed for a repetition range of 15 to 20 and 
turn it into a strength exercise by adding weight and dropping the repetitions to 4 to 6.
The equipment suggested in the workouts can also be substituted. Remember, 
a muscle only knows resistance; it does not care where the resistance comes from. 
Therefore, feel free to try different exercises with different equipment and in differ -
ent positions. For example, if you like a routine that normally calls for dumbbells, but 
you are traveling and don’t have dumbbells, don’t be afraid to try the routine on the 
road with the JC Traveler or Predator Jr. bands. This means you can take a dumbbell 
bench fly and substitute it for a standing band fly. These kinds of changes allow you 
to not only stay consistent with your workout but also provide a different stimulus to 
the muscle being worked and make the exercise more functional by bringing in other 
synergistic muscle systems.

11 Program Framework
Intensity and Safety
No programming should be without a clear discussion about intensity and safety. We 
have already touched on topics related to intensity when we talked about resetting 
the barometer of the human will. However, this discussion is more focused on the 
mechanics and programming end of exercises and training. We want to make sure 
that anyone can alter the intensity of any exercise without using weight as an intensity 
parameter. Let’s take a look at some simple techniques that can be used to alter the 
intensity of any functional exercise.
In functional training, we often use just body weight or light equipment that requires 
a system to vary resistance without adding an external load. The IHP functional train -
ing system describes four tweaks that can make any exercise a little harder (progression) 
or easier (regression). The four tweaks are base of support, lever arm, range of motion, 
and speed. Following is a brief summary of these tweaks. We refer you to Functional 
Training  for a more complete review of this topic. In time, you will learn to use each 
tweak and combine multiple tweaks in order to keep your programming progressing 
consistently, effectively, and safely.
Base of Support
The base of support provides two things: surface area and fixed points of contact to 
react with the ground. Without these two important features, it’s hard to establish the 
body and express any significant force production. This need for stability and ground 
reaction must be understood in today’s age of unstable training environments that 
actually hinder strength development. Increasing the base provides more stability 
and shares the training load over the bigger surface or more points of contact. Both 
features make any exercise easier. Reducing the base simply increases the instability 
factor and puts more load on the structures contacting the ground, therefore making 
any exercise harder. When reducing the base to make things harder, you have to ensure 
that those remaining base structures can stabilize the system so it can be properly 
loaded. If one loses load (i.e., the weight used) to balance requirements, strength 
development suffers. An example of how to reduce the base to increase loading but 
not lose the load to balance can be seen in the single-leg anterior reach. If you want to 
increase the loading parameter of a single leg, but you can’t balance on a single leg, 
stand in a staggered stance so most of the weight is on the front foot and the rear foot 
lightly taps the ground to stabilize the position. Even if the front foot takes on 80 to 
90 percent of the load, you will be able to use greater loads and do more work; 80 to 
90 percent of a huge number is better than 100 percent of a small number. So, reduce 
the base but make sure it is stable enough to load the system appropriately.
Range of Motion
Range of motion is another good tweak to manipulate the amount of intensity and 
work performed in an exercise. The longer a mass (e.g., medicine ball) travels, the more 
work is done; it’s that simple. There is also a mechanical concern that involves the 
eccentric portion of the exercise, which is when the muscle lengthens while producing 
force or the negative portion of the contraction. The eccentric portion of a muscular 
contraction is when most muscle damage takes place, and thus it is a strong stimulus 
for growth. The longer the range of motion, the larger the eccentric component, and 
therefore the more stimulus for muscle growth and strength. Now, this does not mean 
that isometric contractions and partial-range-of-motion training are not effective; they 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 12
are. These strategies can be employed when specific strength is needed at specific 
angles or ranges of motion. However, range of motion is strongly associated with the 
amount of work done and the eccentric component of training.
Lever Arm
The lever arm is another great tweak to organically manipulate the intensity of an 
exercise. The longer the lever arm (i.e., the distance between the pivot point or axis and 
the load), the harder the exercise becomes. That’s why when you elevate a push-up, 
it becomes easier, and the further the dumbbell is from the shoulder, the harder the 
lateral raise is. The lever arm is also the difference between a bench and a dumbbell 
fly. This is a great tweak to use when you have limited loads or equipment to work 
with but still need to get some intensity out of the load.
Speed
The last tweak is the speed. Speed is a very diverse tweak because either fast or slow 
speeds can be used to make an exercise easier or harder. That is, doing something 
fast can make some things easier and other things harder. For example, speed creates 
momentum that is hard to generate, but once it’s generated, an activity like throwing, 
jumping, or running becomes easy. Generally, if you are training to generate dynamic 
movements (e.g., explosive push-ups, jump squats, and speed repetitions), going fast 
can increase the training intensity, especially if it’s done for high repetitions. This tweak 
is used to develop power and power endurance.
Now, if you want to make a moderately loaded exercise harder, you can use the time-
under-tension principle and slow it down. This puts the muscle under tension for a 
longer time, thereby increasing the work the muscle performs. This tweak is excellent 
for developing strength and hypertrophy while keeping the loads to a modest level. 
Bodybuilders often use this approach to add muscle while sparing joints.
Equipment Needed for the Workouts
The workouts in this book are very diverse and so is the equipment needed. 
There are bodyweight workouts that require nothing but heart and attitude. 
There are band workouts that are perfect to take on the road. There are 
workouts that can be done with a single weight plate, and they are perfect 
for the garage or back yard. There are functional workouts that require small 
functional equipment, such as bands, medicine balls, stability balls, dumbbells, 
kettlebells, or an adjustable bench, and they’re perfect for that home workout 
everyone wants. Finally, there are straight-up bodybuilding workouts for the 
meathead in many of us. These workouts are designed for a commercial gym 
that has standard bodybuilding equipment, such as machines, cables, barbells, 
and dumbbells. Each workout will list the equipment needed and some possible 
alternatives just in case you don’t have access to one piece.

13 Program Framework
Basic Programming and Periodization
One of the reasons books like this one are very popular is because programming is 
such a difficult area to master, in part because much of the scientific literature about 
programming and periodization had to be translated from Russian and other languages 
and dealt with the training of elite athletes, not the development of general fitness. 
The workouts in this book cover a wide array of application, from toning to total-body 
metabolic power. Following is a brief review of periodization and program design. 
For a more comprehensive discussion on the theory and practice of periodization and 
program design, I refer you to Functional Training.
Periodization is the manipulation of training variables during different periods of 
time; thus its name. Training variables include intensity, volume, and frequency. Our 
version of periodization includes four periods that progressively train a body to peak 
at a specific time. The four periods are conditioning or hypertrophy, strength, power, 
and power endurance. Each of these periods can be 4 weeks long, making an entire 
training block 16 weeks. Depending on the time line available, each period can be 
made shorter and, in some cases, avoided altogether.
The transformation workouts in this book use a higher volume of work, and for that 
reason they can be used for conditioning or hypertrophy. Any hypertrophy or con -
ditioning workout is easily converted to a strength workout by increasing the weight 
so that four to six repetitions become challenging. Although there are many ways to 
develop power, the athletic performance workouts in this book have a huge power 
component and can certainly be used for that cycle.
Finally, athletic endurance workouts are, in essence, metabolic power workouts and 
are perfect for the final stage of athletic preparation, the power endurance cycle. With 
the workouts in this book, you will be able to effectively train through any period 
inside of a periodized training scheme. Functional Training  has a complete explanation 
of the periodization and programming component and over 70 programs covering all 
applications and phases or cycles of training. I strongly recommend you make that 
book part of your library; it’s a perfect supplement to this one.

This page intentionally left blank

15One of the most complicated areas of personal training and even program design 
is knowing where to begin. Many people want some kind of evaluation to know 
where to start. In my humble opinion, that does not even exist. For example, 
most people who start a jogging program don’t perform a V.O2 test to figure out how 
long and how fast to run on their first training session. Likewise, most people who 
join a gym don’t go through a bunch of one-rep maximum tests to start at specific 
percentages of that maximum lift. Even if they did, that maximum lift goes up every 
week when first beginning an exercise program; therefore all the percentages would 
be off in the second to third week. In most of these cases, people start a new train -
ing program on intuition and trial and error. For example, if you sit on a bench press 
machine for the first time and don’t know how much you can handle for eight repeti -
tions, you start with a weight you feel you can do and adjust up or down from there. 
Eventually you get to a weight you can manage for the eight repetitions desired. All 
beginners start at a level they feel they can manage and go from there. Yes, sometimes 
some people get a bit overzealous and start too intense, and in about 24 hours or so, 
delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) reminds them of their indiscretion for a few 
days. Believe me, they don’t make the same mistake twice.
Basic Assessments
When we assess, we come more from a biomechanical and performance basis than 
from a programming basis. We want to know what is weak and where problems may 
be lingering. Safe training relies on the integrity of the major muscle systems of the 
body. Since our movement model is the four pillars of human movement, we use eight 
movements to assess and train the four pillars. That’s why we say, “The assessment is 
the exercise, and the exercise is the assessment.” Both the assessment and the training 
should improve at the same time as the target activity. This means the assessment must 
be part of the training, and as both the training and assessment improve, so should the 
target activity. The day your training gets better and the target activity does not, you are 
past your optimal strength and conditioning and training for other reasons, not function.
Table 3.1 shows the pillars, associated assessment movements, compensations to look 
for, and potential weaknesses associated with the compensation. The exercises used 
in the following assessments were thoroughly discussed in Functional Training , and I 
strongly recommend that text as a foundational resource to help you get the most out 
of this book. For those not familiar with that text, here is a summary of some of the 
basic movement assessments we use with our clients. We also provide some general 
ranges and performance levels to assign to specific repetitions completed.Assess and Progress3 CHAPTER 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 16
The way to use these assessments is simple. Master these exercises before going 
on to a more advanced version. For example, before doing a barbell squat, you must 
perform a bodyweight squat perfectly and do several sets of 20 or so repetitions with -
out suffering any DOMS the day after. The same goes for all the other exercises in 
this assessment group. These are the major functional progressions all people should 
master before moving to more advanced functional training.
Table 3.2 shows the assessment exercise or major progression, the repetition range, 
and corresponding level. The number represents the number of repetitions that can 
be performed (for each limb in the case of unilateral exercises).
Getting Started
Once you master the general movement pattern of any exercise, the next thing is to 
start at the right intensity. This is especially true when you are starting a workout 
program after a long layoff or for the first time. Starting off too hard can leave you 
paralyzed with muscle soreness for a couple of days, and we have all been there—not 
fun. I remember practically stumbling down the stairs while in college one day after Table 3.1 Biomechanical Assessments and Protocols
Number Exercise Pillar What to look for Problem
1 Single-leg CLA 
(contralateral arm) 
anterior reachLocomotion Front:  Knees cave in or out
Side:  Heels up, knees forward, 
hips tucked in
Back:  Hips move right or left, hike 
up, or hike downWeak back core muscles 
(glutes, paraspinals, 
hamstrings)
2 Single-leg squat Locomotion Front:  Knees cave in or out
Side:  Heels up, knees forward, 
hips tucked in
Back:  Hips move right or left, hike 
up, or hike downWeak back core muscles 
(glutes, paraspinals, 
hamstrings)
3 Bodyweight 
double-leg squatLevel 
changeFront:  Knees cave in or out
Side:  Heels up, knees forward, 
hips tucked in
Back:  Hips move right or left, hike 
up, or hike downWeak back core muscles 
(glutes, paraspinals, 
hamstrings)
4 Bodyweight alter -
nating lungeLevel 
changeFront:  Knees cave in or out
Side:  Trailing hip flexes
Back:  Hips move right or left, hike 
up, or hike downWeak back core muscles 
(glutes, paraspinals, 
hamstrings) 
5 Bodyweight push-
upPush/pull Front: Unstable or winging 
scapula, poor shoulder and hip 
alignment
Side:  Sagging core and unstable 
or winging scapulaWeak front core muscles 
(hip flexors and abs), 
push mechanics, and 
scapula control
6 Recline pull (row) Push/pull Front: Rounded or shrugging 
shoulders due to unstable scapula
Side:  Hips drop and unstable or 
protracting scapulaWeak back core muscles 
(glutes, paraspinals, 
hamstrings), pull 
mechanics, and scapula 
control
7 Rotation with pivot Rotation Knee of the base leg rotates exter -
nally due to decreased internal hip 
rotationPoor hip internal rota -
tion
8 Rotation without 
pivotRotation Hips shake due to decreased core 
stiffnessLack of core stiffness

17 Assess and Progress
a crazy leg day at the gym. Starting at the right intensity is not only safe but saves us 
from hobbling around unnecessarily.
I wish I could give you a magic formula, assessment, or protocol that would allow 
you to begin an exercise program at the perfect intensity, but I’m afraid that easy solu -
tion does not exist. This is where each person must take responsibility and exercise 
common sense or, at best, will be really sore, and, at worst, will be injured. So, buyer 
beware. These are my strong recommendations to everyone who will use this book.
• Make sure you are healthy and ready to work out. If in doubt, get clearance from 
your doctor. A medical clearance is especially important if you have any ortho-
pedic or chronic conditions, such as lower-back pathology, high blood pressure, 
or diabetes.
• If at any time you feel uncomfortable pressure or pain, stop because the exercise 
or amount of load is probably not appropriate for you.
• If you are inexperienced or don’t have a good training base (training constantly 
for one year), start these workouts at 50 percent of the sets described and use a 
light load (weight or resistance) that allows you to easily complete the repeti-
tions. This will ensure you are not too sore the next day and that the training 
experience is a pleasurable one. There is always next week to increase the load 
a bit. Trust me: I’m a great coach not because of my knowledge of exercise sci-
ence; it’s the ability to creep up slowly every week so that my athletes become 
cyborgs without ever feeling like they got demolished in any one session. Be 
patient; slow progression wins the race.
• If you don’t have years of proper training experience, it’s always a great idea to 
hire a certified personal trainer to show you how to properly perform the exer -
cises in any workout. A half hour is enough to show you four or five exercises 
and discuss the workout. Of course, if you can afford consultation for a longer 
period, then do it. At the minimum, invest in a half hour with a qualified trainer 
to make sure you are safe.Table 3.2 Levels and Repetition Ranges for Assessment Exercises
Level Beginner Intermediate Advanced Elite athlete
Exercise Repetitions Repetitions Repetitions Repetitions
Single-leg CLA anterior reach 
(per leg)3-5 6-10 11-15 15 +
Single-leg squat (90 to 110 
degrees of knee flexion)1-3 4-5 6-10 10 +
Bodyweight double-leg squat  
(to parallel)10 (in 10 sec) 11-15  
(in 11-15 sec)16-20  
(in 16-20 sec)20 + (1 per sec)
Bodyweight alternating lunge 
(per leg)3-5  
(in 9-15 sec)6-10  
(in 18-30 sec)11-15  
(in 33-45 sec)15 + (in 45 sec)
Bodyweight push-up (from feet) 1-9 men
1-5 women10-20 men
6-10 women21-30 men
11-20 women30 + men
20 + women
Recline pull (row) (back is 1 ft 
off ground at full arm extension)1-9 men
1-5 women10-20 men
6-10 women21-30 men
11-20 women30 + men
20 + women
Rotation with pivot 10-15 16-20 21-30 30 +
Rotation without pivot* 10-15 (no hip 
movement)16-20 (no hip 
movement)21-30 (no hip 
movement)30 + (no hip 
movement)
* The rotation without pivot is an easy assessment exercises that uses no equipment. Once the athlete is good at the basic 
movement, we add weight with a band or pulley (BP) and it becomes the BP short rotation exercise.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 18
If you follow these recommendations and are patient at the start of a workout, 
you will make faster progress and stay safe while doing so. The biggest error I see 
in fitness is not enough patience and progressing too fast. Everyone has the “more is 
better” mentality; I have also been guilty of it, so don’t feel bad. However, we must all 
be accountable and responsible for our actions. Follow the recommendations I have 
provided and use common sense. You will be just fine.
Signs of Overtraining
The topic of stress and when to back off is a complicated one, and much attention is 
being dedicated to it in the life-extension circles. A more comprehensive discussion of 
proper recovery and restoration is provided in chapter 16. However, I want to address 
some of the obvious signs of overtraining and recommend when to slow down or even 
back off. Having this information and following these recommendations will prevent 
layoffs and possible doctor visits due to doing too much too fast.
Overtraining is not just a potential obstacle to working out, it can affect everyday 
life as well. Overtraining is just simply overstressed; you are putting more stress on 
your body than it can take. This applies to the mechanical stresses the body experi -
ences through exercise as well as all stresses from life. For example, whether you are 
the CEO of a company, a parent juggling kids and a busy home, or a full-time college 
student holding down a part-time job, you can suffer from overtraining symptoms 
without ever stepping foot in a gym. Now, add working out, an additional stress, to 
the mix, and you could create a recipe for disaster. Therefore, you need to learn to 
recognize the symptoms of overtraining or overstress. Let’s keep this discussion on 
overtraining related to working out, and we can deal with the other issues surround -
ing recovery in chapter 16.
The sequence to overtraining is fairly straightforward and almost always follows the 
same order. The first step in overtraining is that the person feels constantly tired and 
lacks the energy to train. Often people try to remedy this feeling through discipline, 
by grinding through a workout, or by consuming an energy drink. An occasional tired 
feeling is OK, and there are many causes for feeling tired. However, chronic fatigue 
is something else and often an indication something is wrong. Another symptom of 
overtraining is chronic pain that won’t go away (the “-itis”). This is especially true of 
joint pain. Muscle pain usually goes away, but pain closer to the joints is something 
else. Pain that does not go away is not normal and can indicate overtraining. After 
persistent pain comes insomnia. People who are chronically overtrained start having 
problems sleeping. Since you do most of your recovery when you sleep (due to a series 
of hormonal processes), lack of sleep marks the beginning of the end when it comes 
recovery. Finally, we have upper respiratory infections (URIs). When your body is not 
recovering, your immune system is compromised. When that happens, viruses and 
infections, especially URIs, are a natural outcome. Therefore, the take-home message 
is you are better off undertrained than overtrained. A rested person can pull out a 
miracle performance because his or her will is intact, but a beaten person does not 
have the will to summon his or her best.
Ideas for Progression
Progressing the intensity (loads) of weighted exercise is easy; simply add more weight. 
Manipulating the intensity of functional training is not as easy but certainly doable. 
We went through the tweaks of functional training exercises in chapter 2 (i.e., base of 

19 Assess and Progress
support, range of motion, lever arm, and speed). These tweaks also work with tradi -
tional exercises, especially those using dumbbells, barbells, and cables. Weight training 
is all about levers, range of motion, and speed of training. These variables can change 
the intensity of an exercise in a second.
One cool way to progress is by changing equipment and machines to do the same 
exercise. Although I’m a huge fan of repeating the basics, I understand the value of 
jumping between two machines that do the same thing. Small angles and even a 
different angle can make a huge difference in the quality of a muscular contraction. 
For example, going from a cable row to a machine row can change the way you feel 
an exercise in your entire back. Likewise, going from heavy pull-downs to pull-ups 
can change the training stimulus for the entire back musculature. The new feel of an 
exercise can certainly change a host of mechanisms that can lead to greater strength 
and muscle growth.
One of the best ways to add to the progressive nature of training is how one sees 
a repetition, especially when looking at the weight training designed around hyper -
trophy. My good friend and former Mr. USA, John DeFendis, has a great five-step 
contraction model he calls the stretch-flex-drag-contract-negative model (SFDCN).
John designed this system because he felt traditional eccentric and concentric con -
tractions did not truly capture the essence of the perfect muscle hypertrophy stimulus. 
I feel the DeFendis rep adds an awareness to training that allows one to get more 
hypertrophy stimulus using less weight and, more importantly, with less wear and 
tear on the joints. Here are the five steps of a DeFendis rep.
1. Stretch: Begin the exercise in the stretched position with tension on the muscle, 
but you’re not yet ready to perform the exercise. For example, for a triceps press-
down, hold the bar at the top by your chest and keep your elbows in to feel the 
stretch before you start the exercise.
2. Flex: Flex the triceps and tuck your elbows in tight to your sides, creating ten-
sion to get ready to slowly press the weight down.
3. Drag: Slowly drag the weight and use only the triceps to press the weight down. 
Do not throw the weight. Feel the triceps through the entire movement.
4. Contraction: Lock out at the bottom of the movement and squeeze the triceps 
so you feel an intense contraction almost to the point of a cramp.
5. Negative: Now slowly bring your arms back to the original position while feel-
ing the triceps through the negative part of the movement.
I consider the DeFendis rep the perfect form when performing any hypertrophy 
exercise. Just being aware of these steps improves your training from OK to purposeful 
and effective training. Some strength training may also show benefits from the Defen -
dis rep model. However heavier loads and training cycles often require an explosive 
approach to muscular contraction.
One last idea on progressing your training is to understand that plateaus are not 
necessarily bad. They may be an indication you have hit the point of diminishing 
returns in a certain attribute or body part. Instead of beating your body into submis -
sion and putting in a ton of work for very little return, keep your strength by putting 
your body in maintenance mode and concentrate on an attribute or body part that 
needs more work. We all love to work on our favorite body parts or attributes, but 
changing the emphasis and addressing the weak areas allows you to improve your 
physique and performance.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 20
I hope these ideas on progressing your training will always keep you moving in the 
right direction. Remember that training is not self-punishment but rather a nurturing 
of your physical, mental, and spiritual beings. Always ask, Why am I doing this? It 
doesn’t matter if you have to ask that question three times in a row to get three layers 
deep as to why you are training. Keep the DeFendis rep consciousness in mind when 
you are training for muscle growth; you will find that you will get more out of your 
training without using more weight. Finally, enjoy your favorite training, but don’t 
keep pounding it into the ground. Start going after your weaker areas and create a 
more balanced you, physically, mentally, and spiritually.

21
PART II
PART II
PART II
Body 
Transformation
The workouts in this book take 60 to 90 minutes to complete at their highest levels. They are 
also very high in volume, and you must make sure to give your body enough time to adapt 
before moving on to the next stage. For example, if you get to the second week and can barely 
fi  nish the workout or feel very sore the next day, perform the second week again as many times 
as necessary until you can complete the workout with good form and with some energy in 
the tank after the workout. There is no need to rush or train to exhaustion to get great results. 
In fact, staying healthy throughout the workout allows you to complete a higher volume of 
work, providing better results. Be patient and don’t overdo it. Stay in any one week as many 
weeks as necessary to create a great training base, adapt, and get stronger. Then proceed to 
the next week.
The transformation workouts in part II are listed in complimentary pairs so you can work 
in a circuit. This strategy saves time and prefatigues muscles so you can stimulate them into 
growing without using heavier weight in follow-up sets. Circuits 1 and 2 are usually the essen-
tials; circuit 3 usually is made up of fi  nishers. The fi  nishers are higher volume and are made 
to fl  ush the area with lots of blood to provide a nice fi  nishing pump. Remember, you don’t 
have to fi  nish the volumes noted within the workouts. For example, if you are on week 4 and 
are told to complete four or fi  ve sets, but you don’t have the energy or time to complete that 
prescribed volume, it’s fi  ne to perform two or three sets. You are working to your safe capac-
ity or in the time allotted and will still get great results. So, do what you can and add a little 
every week. The volumes noted in these workouts are just guidelines, not rules set in stone.
The paired circuit strategy is particularly effective for women, since most women we have 
worked with respond better to higher volume (i.e., sets and repetitions) as opposed to higher 
intensity (i.e., loads). The circuit format not only stimulates growth but also has a great impact 
on caloric expenditure, cardiovascular conditioning, and time effi  ciency. All these benefi  ts are 
big positives in this very busy and sedentary world. However, depending on the time you 
have to train,  you may prefer to perform the workouts in succession or sequences. When you 
perform exercises in succession, you fi  nish all sets of one exercise before going to the next 
exercise. When you perform exercise in sequence, you do one set of each exercise then go on 
to the next, performing the determined number of exercises as a giant circuit.
Speaking of giant sets, these workouts can be performed in a class or group format. Therefore, 
if you are a personal trainer and have a “booty class” for women, two women’s leg workouts 
can easily handle 8 to 10 women. If you are a coach handling a male basketball team, two of 
the leg workouts duplicated inside a gym can handle the entire boys team on leg and hip days.
We are always looking to make the body adapt to more work by getting bigger and stronger. 
But remember, your body does not want to acquire muscle mass. It has mechanisms against 
that (e.g., myostatin gene). Therefore, we always have to try to increase the work the muscles 
see. Sometimes we do this with more volume (more sets and repetitions) and keep the load 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 22
the same. Sometimes we reduce the volume from one week to the next but increase the weight. 
Therefore, if you see a drop in repetitions from one week to the next, feel free to increase the 
weight (usually by 5-10%) so that the muscle is forced to adapt by lifting a heavier load for 
fewer repetitions instead. For example, if week 3 calls for three sets of 15 repetitions of a chest 
press, and week 4 drops the volume of the chest press to four sets of 10 repetitions, increase 
the load of the 10 repetitions of the chest press by 5 to 10 percent. If the exercise is not weight-
dependent, such as a SB bridge, use a speed, base, or lever arm tweak to make the exercise 
harder while performing fewer repetitions. For example, if you are doing 15 repetitions of a 
two-leg SB bridge and you want to increase the load as you drop to 10 reps, you can perform 
the exercise slower, move the SB closer to the feet, or you can go to a single-leg progression to 
give the 10 reps the right level of intensity.
One final note on recovery and avoiding overtraining. The workouts included can be reduced 
in volume and intensity to accommodate most people, and they can be completed as they are 
written and really push extremely fit individuals. If you complete a four- to five-week program 
as it is written in this book, you have completed a great deal of work, and I recommend a week 
of cross-training before going to the next workout. After completing each workout, take it easy 
on that body part or on the entire body if you are combining several of these workouts in one 
week. Fill the recovery week with lighter work, BioFoam rolling, biking, walking, swimming, 
or any other activity that will allow your body and mind to recover from the high volume of 
work you just completed.
I have addressed this before, but I never get tired of stressing it—never train through pain. 
All movements must be free of pain, not free of effort. If it’s hard and causes you to exert 
yourself, that’s awesome. Relax your face and stay in the moment. Allow yourself to experi-
ence effort with no value or judgement. The awareness of what is normal high-intensity effort 
and what is detrimental pain is the biggest awareness you will gain from training. Accepting 
effort without judgement and not projecting panic into the future is the biggest adaptation of 
physical training and the essence of redefining the human will. Likewise, the awareness and 
understanding when you are hurting your body is also part of training wisdom. This wisdom 
is more important than the ability to drive hard through four weeks of grueling work.
Perform all exercises in a slow and controlled fashion. Remember, the transformation 
workouts are about putting stress on the muscle, and nothing puts stress on a muscle like time 
under tension. Unless otherwise specified, try to feel every angle of the range of motion; feel 
the DeFendis rep: stretch, flex, drag, contraction, negative. As a general recommendation, you 
can take 0.5 to 1.5 seconds for each positive and 0.5 to 1.5 seconds for each negative, depending 
on the amplitude of the exercise. For additional muscle stimulation, pause for 0.5 to 1 second 
at the bottom (loaded) and squeeze 0.5 to 1 second at the peak contraction of each move. This 
pause kills reflexes and momentum that can make the work more efficient biomechanically 
but less effective from a toning or hypertrophy standpoint. The squeeze at the top, or pause 
at bottom, makes all the difference in the world. If you are performing circuits, you may move 
from one exercise to another with a 15- to 30-second pause between each exercise. Rest 60 to 
120 seconds between circuits or individual exercises that are performed in succession.
If you are looking for more athleticism or function from a toning exercise, speed up the 
movement and don’t pause at the bottom. This dynamic quality takes the emphasis off a single 
muscle and has the tendency to bring in other muscle systems. Dynamic movement also uses 
more reflexes and physical qualities, such as momentum, to make the body more efficient. 
Don’t think that because a movement is dynamic and more functional it will not provide tone. 
It will. It just won’t stimulate muscle growth as much as it does when it is performed slow 
and controlled. Combat athletes have chiseled bodies made to move; none of them perform 
traditional hypertrophy training out of fear of adding extra muscle that would put them in a 
higher weight class.

23The legs and hips workouts in this chapter run the gamut from travel workouts 
that will keep your fitness levels high while you’re on the road to banging-and-
clanging gym workouts sure to put some muscle behind your hustle. Some of the 
industry giants known for their leg development workouts have chimed in to make 
this one of the best chapters in this book. You are in for a real treat.
These workouts are in a specific order. We start each of the men’s and women’s 
sections with some band-only workouts that have slowly become my favorite supple -
mental home and travel glute workouts. Then we have the glutes-only workouts that 
use weight but spare the knees. I love both of these glute-dominated workouts because 
my arthritic and injured knees limit the amount of heavy squatting I can do and just 
about prohibit me from doing lunges and step-ups. We then move on to the functional 
workouts that are great for people who want a level of tone and fitness without neces -
sarily adding huge size to the lower body. We add more advanced workouts that can 
be done in commercial or home gyms to the mix and end with professional-grade 
workouts. I provide volume ranges for beginners and advanced users so everyone 
can safely enjoy the workouts by choosing an appropriate volume to match his or her 
abilities. I strongly urge you to stay conservative in your approach. If in doubt, do less. 
Go lighter, not heavier. More training lies ahead.
The legs and hips are the motor of the body, where all the power comes from. This 
is especially true if you understand that the legs and hips are the base of the core and 
are the limbs that react with the ground to propel the body in any direction. Often 
the training load is on the shoulders or in the hands. The core is the bridge connect -
ing the hips to the shoulders, so the core is trained as well. The legs and hips are a 
key feature for the aesthetic appeal of the body. Sports usually require lower-body 
speed and power, so lower-body training is at the forefront of any athletic strength 
and conditioning program.
Although we have divided this chapter into his and her workouts, a muscle does 
not know gender; it only understands intensity, volume, and frequency. Therefore, 
feel free to mix and match workouts and exercises. A man who wants to try a larger 
volume of work when training the legs and hips should adopt one of the workouts 
from the her section. A woman looking for extra bone density or muscle should feel 
free to try one of the his  workouts.
As mentioned, some of the top guns in the fitness industry have contributed some 
of the workouts they use with their athletes and on themselves to compete at the high -
est levels of sport (e.g., bodybuilding and figure, American football). I want to give a 
special shout-out to the glute guy, Bret Contreras (http:/ /bretcontreras.com), for the Legs and Hips4 CHAPTER 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 24
enormous amount of work he has put into the area of hip training. Much of the glute 
work I do and present in this book was inspired by Bret’s work and our communica -
tions. Thank you, Bret.
All the workouts in this chapter assume you can do four sets of 20 repetitions of 
bodyweight squats, completing each set in 20 seconds and resting about a minute 
between each set without any pain during or a day after the workout (i.e., DOMS). If 
you are not there, please make sure you can complete the following workout. You may 
start anywhere along this progression you feel is appropriate. Please be conservative 
at the beginning and take your time to develop a base if you have not exercised in 
more than a month or two.
Week 1: 2 sets of 10 squats, rest 2-3 minutes between sets, 3 times per week
Week 2: 3 sets of 15 squats, rest 2 minutes between sets, 3 times per week
Week 3: 3 sets of 20 squats, rest 1-2 minutes between sets, 3 times per week
Week 4: 4 sets of 20 squats, rest 1 minute between sets, 3 times per week
Most people will do fine with the first two weeks of most of these workouts. If 
you are combining legs with another body part for a single day, the volumes of the 
first two weeks work perfectly. Most people working legs multiple times a week also 
will do fine with the volume of the first two weeks. The last two weeks are for elite 
athletes and highly-trained individuals who have experienced these volumes of work 
before. Before attempting these high volumes for the first time, seek the guidance of 
a nationally-certified fitness professional.
A Special Note From JC and Bret Contreras
Some exercises in this chapter may be seen as “feminine” or “girly” exercises. How -
ever, we urge you to rethink training and leave egos and preconceived notions off 
the training floor. We both have used these workouts and all the exercises in this 
chapter to help us stay strong and fit. Bret got a 620-pound deadlift done using 
these exercises. JC is 58 and not interested in heavy lifting anymore due to all the 
damage his body has taken over the years, but these exercises allowed him to squat 
and deadlift for repetitions with more than 300 pounds and perform hip thrusts 
for sets of 10 with 400 pounds. This is after two hip replacements and arthritic and 
scoped knees. You will also find Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson and James Harrison 
(NFL’s strongest man) showing off their hip thrusts and many of the exercises in 
this chapter on their Instagram and YouTube channels to help their performances 
and keep their bodies looking in top shape. The Rock says hip thrusts help his body 
feel better so he can keep training. James Harrison believes these exercises help 
his explosion off the line. These are arguably the two manliest men on the planet. 
This advice applies to the hip circle band exercises as well. We have taken all of 
the abduction and adduction and related hip exercises and presented them as hard 
isometric, slow eccentric, high tension, low reps, and explosive protocols. Squats 
and deadlifts are going through the roof! If you want bigger lifts, use the hip circle 
band exercises to grow stronger while saving your back. Don’t be scared to do 
these exercises, guys. They are not just for women. They are made for all glutes.

25HIS LEGS AND HIPS 1: GLUTES, BAND ONLY
This 4-week program is a glute workout using only a band. This program uses a circle band (such 
as the IHP circle band) for all exercises, making it a perfect home or travel workout. This is a 
great way to add glute training to your existing leg and hip program or to train your hips while 
you are rehabilitating a knee or back injury and can’t do traditional leg training. Depending on 
your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice to reduce the 
4-week volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher-volume ranges of weeks 3 and 4 
are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
IHP circle band (or substitute with a super band)
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.HIS WORKOUTS
Table 4.1 His Legs and Hips 1: Glutes, Band Only
Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Band squat 
abduction (3 sec 
pause at abduc -
tion)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6892, 
F 04.01a, ID: 608156, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more com -
fortable. Assume a squat stance, your feet 
slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. 
Abduct and roll on the outside of your feet. 
Adduct your legs and flatten your feet. 
Repeat for prescribed reps.Week 1 1 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 2 × 20
Week 4 3 × 20
1b. Band standing 
hip extension and 
abduction\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6913, 
F 04.01b, ID: 608157, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more 
comfortable. Stand in front of a sturdy 
structure and hold it for support, your feet 
hip-width apart, a slight forward lean, and 
flexed knees. Extend your left leg back and 
out about 30 degrees, slightly externally 
rotating your foot during the hip exten -
sion. Repeat for prescribed reps, then 
repeat with other leg.Week 1 1 × 15 per leg
Week 2 2 × 20 per leg
Week 3 2 × 25 per leg
Week 4 3 × 30 per leg
2a. Band hip-hinge 
abduction (3 sec 
pause at abduc -
tion)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6900, 
F 04.01c, ID: 608158, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more 
comfortable. Assume a high deadlift 
position, with your knees slightly bent, 
shoulders over feet, feet about shoulder-
width apart, and knees slightly inside 
your feet (adducted). Keeping your back 
straight, abduct your legs, rolling slightly 
to the outside of your feet. Hold for 3 sec. 
Adduct your legs and flatten your feet to 
return to the starting position and repeat. 
Perform prescribed reps.Week 1 1 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 2 × 20
Week 4 3 × 20
(continued)

26Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
2b. Band quadru -
ped hip extension\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6908, 
F 04.01d, ID: 608159, here\Place band around your legs and get on 
your hands and knees, with one end of the 
band under your right knee and the other 
above your left knee. Extend your left leg 
back and out about 30 degrees, slightly 
externally rotating your foot during the hip 
extension. Bring your left leg back down 
to the starting position and repeat for 
prescribed reps.
Perform with your right leg.Week 1 1 × 15 per leg
Week 2 2 × 20 per leg
Week 3 2 × 25 per leg
Week 4 3 × 30 per legTable 4.1 His Legs and Hips 1: Glutes, Band Only (continued)
HIS LEGS AND HIPS 2: GLUTES, WEIGHTS ONLY
This 4-week program is a glute-only training program. This is a perfect workout for people inter -
ested in adding strength and volume to their glutes or for people who need a lower-body training 
program that doesn’t vertically load the spine or tax the knees. We have successfully used this 
workout with people in knee rehab and with those suffering from arthritis in the knees. Since 
this workout uses inexpensive equipment, like a set of JC Predator Jr. and IHP circle bands, it is 
a great option for a quick workout at home. Depending on your natural capacity and training 
history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice to reduce the volume and provide more time to 
adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 3 and 4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Circle band or superband, stretch band (such as a JC Predator Jr.) or cable machine, hip thruster 
bench, weight bench, 45-degree extension bench or stability ball, barbell, weight plate, or dumbbell.
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.
Table 4.2 His Legs and Hips 2: Glutes, Weights Only
Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Barbell hip 
thrust \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6920, 
F 04.02a, ID: 608161, here\Sit on the ground and rest your upper 
back against a bench. Roll a bar over your 
hips. (You may use a pad between the 
bar and your hips.) Bend your knees and 
keep your feet flat on the ground between 
hip- and shoulder-width apart. Securing 
the bar with your hands, extend your hips 
and bridge up until they are fully extended. 
Lower until your glutes almost touch the 
ground. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. Band squat 
abduction\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6892, 
F 04.02b, ID: 608162, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more com -
fortable. Assume a squat position, your 
feet slightly wider than shoulder-width 
apart. Abduct and roll on the outside of 
your feet, then adduct your legs and flat -
ten your feet. Perform prescribed reps.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 5 × 15


27Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
2a. BP deadlift \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8892, 
F 04.02c, ID: 608163, here\Stand in a parallel stance with handles to 
a low cable in each hand. Keeping your 
core and knees slightly bent, flex at the 
hips and reach with both hands toward 
the cable (anchor point) until you feel a 
comfortable stretch in your hamstrings. 
Come back to the starting upright position 
and repeat desired reps.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 10
2b. Band hip thrust 
(2 sec pause at 
top)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6923, 
F 04.02d, ID: 608164, here\Sit on the ground and rest your upper 
back against a bench. Secure a band on 
each side of you so the band stretches 
over your hips. (You may use a pad 
between the band and your hips.) Bend 
your knees and keep your feet flat on the 
ground between hip- and shoulder-width 
apart. Extend your hips and bridge up until 
they are fully extended. Pause for 2 sec. 
Lower until your glutes almost touch the 
ground. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
3a. 45-degree 
weighted back 
extension (toes 
out)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6932, 
F 04.02e, ID: 608165, here\Place your feet on the footplate of a 
45-degree angled bench. Point your toes 
out and secure the thigh pads on your 
thighs below the hip bone. Hold dumbbells 
or weight plate at your chest. Keeping your 
back straight, flex at the hips until you feel 
a comfortable stretch at the glutes and 
hamstrings. Extend your hips to the start -
ing position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 15
3b. Seated band 
abduction (10 sec 
count)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6949, 
F 04.02f, ID: 608166, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more 
comfortable. Sit on a bench or chair, your 
feet slightly wider than shoulder-width 
apart. Abduct your legs and roll on the 
outside of your feet. Adduct your legs for 
a 10 sec count until your legs close and 
your feet are flat on the ground. Repeat for 
prescribed reps.Week 1 2 × 10 sec
Week 2 3 × 10 sec
Week 3 4 × 10 sec
Week 4 5 × 10 sec


28HIS LEGS AND HIPS 3: FUNCTIONAL
This 4-week program is a pure functional training program that focuses on developing muscle 
tone and athleticism. This is a perfect workout for the young athlete or for someone with less 
training experience who wants to be introduced to functional training and is looking to get into 
shape. It’s a perfect home routine because the equipment involved is minimal and inexpensive.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated 
twice to reduce the 4-week volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher-volume ranges 
of weeks 3 and 4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Medicine ball, dumbbells, cable machine or resistance band (such as a JC Sports Band or Preda -
tor), stability ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.
Table 4.3 His Legs and Hips 3: Functional
Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1a. MB diagonal 
chop\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6966, 
F 04.03a, ID: 608168, here\Stand with your feet slightly wider than 
shoulder-width apart and your knees 
slightly bent. Hold a medicine ball above 
your right shoulder. Shift your weight to 
your left leg and chop diagonally while 
pivoting your right foot until the medicine 
ball is to the left of your body between 
your left knee and hip. Return to the start -
ing position. Perform to the other side of 
the body.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per side
1b. MB/DB 
alternating front 
reaching lunge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6980, 
F 04.03b, ID: 608169, here\Stand with your feet hip-width apart and 
your knees bent. Hold a medicine ball or a 
dumbbell in both hands. Keeping your core 
tight, take a big step forward with your left 
leg, bending your left leg slightly. Keeping 
your back straight and stable, flex your 
hips your hips and reach toward your left 
foot until you feel a comfortable stretch 
in your hamstrings. Return to the starting 
position and repeat to the right side.Week 1 2 × 7 per leg
Week 2 3 × 10 per leg
Week 3 4 × 12 per leg
Week 4 5 × 10 per leg
2a. BP stag -
gered stance CLA 
deadlift\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6985, 
F 04.03c, ID: 608170, here\Stand in a staggered stance, your left 
foot forward. Hold the handle to a low 
cable in your right hand. Keeping your 
core straight and tight, flex your hips and 
reach your right hand toward the cable 
(anchor point) until you feel a comfortable 
stretch in your right hamstrings. Return 
to the starting position and repeat for the 
desired reps. Switch stance and arm, and 
repeat. Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 12 per leg
Week 3 4 × 10 per leg
Week 4 5 × 8 per leg


29Table 4.4 His Legs and Hips 4: Weights and Functional 
Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Loaded step-up \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7305, 
F 04.04a, ID: 608174, here\Stand in front of a step (8-14 in. [20-36 
cm]) with your feet hip-width apart. Hold a 
medicine ball in both hands or dumbbells 
in each hand. Keeping your core tight, step 
onto the step with your left leg. Extend 
your left knee, step on the step, and finish 
with your left leg extended. Step back 
down and repeat for desired reps. Repeat 
with the right leg.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 12 per leg
Week 3 4 × 15 per leg
Week 4 5 × 10 per legExercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
2b. SB single-leg 
bridge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6994, 
F 04.03d, ID: 608171, here\Lie flat in a supine position. Place your 
left leg on top of a stability ball, keeping 
your right leg slightly flexed and in the air. 
Raise your hips and squeeze your glutes at 
the top, then lower the hips until just short 
of the ground. Repeat for the desired reps. 
Switch legs and repeat.Week 1 2 × 7 per leg
Week 2 3 × 10 per leg
Week 3 4 × 12 per leg
Week 4 5 × 15 per leg
3a. 45-degree calf 
pump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7211, 
F 04.03e, ID: 608172, here\Lean against a wall with both hands on the 
wall, both heels up, and your body leaning 
at about 45-70 degrees. Raise your left 
knee. Keep your knee and left toes up. 
Perform quick right ankle pumps using 
a short range of motion. Repeat ankle 
pumps on the left.Week 1 2 × 15 per leg
Week 2 3 × 20 per leg
Week 3 4 × 30 per leg
Week 4 5 × 40 per leg
HIS LEGS AND HIPS 4: WEIGHTS AND FUNCTIONAL
This 4-week program is a functional training program with a metabolic blast at the end. This 
workout can be tailored for the intermediate or advanced trainee, depending on what weeks 
are completed. It’s a perfect home routine since it involves minimal inexpensive yet effective 
exercise equipment. Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can 
be repeated twice to reduce the 4-week volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher-
volume ranges of weeks 3 and 4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Step (8-14 in. [20-36 cm]), medicine ball, dumbbells, cable machine or band (such as a JC Sports 
Band or Predator), circle band, stability ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.
(continued)

30Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1b. BP deadlift \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8536, 
F 04.04b, ID: 608175, here\Stand in a parallel stance, the handles of 
a low cable or band in each hand. Keeping 
your core tight and your knees slightly 
bent, flex your hips and reach with both 
hands toward the cable until you feel a 
comfortable stretch in your hamstrings. 
Return to the starting position and repeat.Week 1 2 × 5 per leg
Week 2 3 × 7 per leg
Week 3 4 × 10 per leg
Week 4 5 × 15 per leg
2a. Lateral alter -
nating reaching 
lunge \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7319, 
F 04.04c, ID: 608176, here\Stand with your feet hip-width apart. 
Hold a medicine ball or dumbbell in both 
hands. Keeping your core tight, take a big 
lateral step with your left leg, bending the 
left knee slightly. Flex the hips and reach 
toward your left foot until you feel a com -
fortable stretch in your left hamstrings. 
Return to the starting position and repeat 
to the right side.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 15 per leg
Week 3 4 × 20 per leg
Week 4 5 × 20 per leg
2b. Band squat 
abduction\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7344, 
F 04.04d, ID: 608177, here\Place the band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more com -
fortable. Assume a squat position with 
your feet slightly wider than shoulder-
width apart. Abduct your legs and roll on 
the outside of your feet. Adduct your legs 
and flatten your feet. Perform prescribed 
reps.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 15 per leg
Week 3 4 × 20 per leg
Week 4 5 × 20 per leg
3a. Single-leg SB 
leg curl\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7391, 
F 04.04e, ID: 608178, here\Lie in a supine position. Place your right 
foot on top of a stability ball, keeping your 
right knee flexed at 90 degrees. Lift your 
left leg in the air while keeping your left 
knee flexed at 90 degrees. Raise your hips, 
squeezing your glutes at the top. Keeping 
your hips elevated, flex and extend your 
right knee for the prescribed reps. Repeat 
with the left leg. Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 15 per leg
Week 3 4 × 20 per leg
Week 4 5 × 15 per leg
3b. 45-degree calf 
pump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7474, 
F 04.04f, ID: 608179, here\Lean against the wall with both hands on 
the wall, both heels up, and your body 
leaning at about 45-70 degrees. Raise 
your right knee, keeping the knee and toes 
up. Perform quick left ankle pumps using 
a short range of motion. Repeat ankle 
pumps on right leg.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 15 per leg
Week 3 4 × 20 per leg
Week 4 5 × 30 per leg
Table 4.4 His Legs and Hips 4: Weights and Functional (continued)

31Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
4. Leg crank \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7400, 
F 04.04g, ID: 608180, here\Perform 24 squats, 24 lunges (12 per leg), 
24 split jumps (12 per leg), and 12 squat 
jumps (84 total reps).Week 1 1 set
Week 2 1 or 2 sets
Week 3 2 or 3 sets
Week 4 3 or 4 sets
HIS LEGS AND HIPS 5: BRET’S WEIGHTS WORKOUT
This 6-week leg and hip workout is a heavy-duty workout right from the glute guy himself, Bret 
Contreras. The idea is to stay with the same set and rep scheme indicated (or as close as possible) 
but go up in weight each week. Don’t go too fast; that is the biggest mistake people make with 
this kind of workout. For the first week, start with a weight that allows you to easily complete 
the exercises as indicated. Add 2.5%-5% each week. That is a lot of increase over 6 weeks! The 
goal is to get stronger but not get stuck at weeks 3 to 5. If that happens, you progressed too 
fast. This is a killer workout, especially the last 2 weeks, so try to get 2 or 3 days of rest between 
day 1 and 2 workouts. This rest period will allow your legs and hips to recover so you can get 
the most out of this workout.
Equipment
Weight bench, 45-degree bench, barbell, power rack, circle band, dumbbells
Notes
Add some of the calf work from workout 4 if desired. Perform the program for 6 weeks.
Table 4.5 His Legs and Hips 5: Bret’s Weights Workout
Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
DAY 1
Barbell hip thrust \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6920, 
F 04.05a, ID: 608182, here\Sit on the ground and rest your upper back 
against a weight bench. Roll a barbell over your 
hips. (You may use a pad between the bar and 
your hips, if desired.) Bend your knees and 
keep your feet flat on ground between hip- and 
shoulder-width apart. Securing the bar with 
your hands, extend your hips and bridge up until 
they are fully extended. Lower until your glutes 
almost touch the ground. Repeat.3 × 10
Barbell back squat \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8529, 
F 04.05b, ID: 608183, here\Using a power rack, safely place a barbell on 
your back, right on the trapezius muscles. 
Stand with your feet at about shoulder-width 
apart. Keep the core tight and the back straight 
throughout the entire movement. Flex your hips 
and knees until you reach a sitting position 
about chair level. Return to the starting position. 
Repeat.3 × 6
(continued)

32Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
DAY 1 (CONTINUED)
Barbell Romanian 
deadlift\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6956, 
F 04.05c, ID: 608184, here\Stand in front of a barbell in a shoulder-width 
stance, toes pointing forward. Keeping your 
core tight and your knees slightly bent, flex 
your hips and knees and grab the bar with your 
hands hip- to shoulder-width apart. You may 
use an alternating or a pronated grip. Drive 
through your heels, extending your legs and 
hips simultaneously until you are standing fully 
erect. Reverse the sequence and lower the bar 
to the floor. Repeat.3 × 8
Band lateral walk \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7352, 
F 04.05d, ID: 608185, here\Place band around your legs, below or above the 
knees, whichever is more comfortable. Stand 
in a semisquat position with your feet hip-width 
apart. Try to keep your back straight. Lean 
forward slightly. Take a lateral step to the right 
until your feet are wider than shoulder-width 
apart. Step your left foot toward the right foot 
until your feet are hip-width apart. Perform the 
prescribed reps to the right, then switch and 
repeat to the left.3 × 20  
per side
DAY 2
Barbell glute 
bridge with band\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1223, 
F 04.05e, ID: 608186, here\Sit on the ground with a circle band around your 
legs right above the knees. Roll a barbell over 
your hips. (You may use a pad between the bar 
and your hips, if desired.) Lie down and bend 
your knees, keeping your feet flat on the ground 
between hip- and shoulder-width apart. Secure 
the bar at the hips with your hands and keep 
your legs open, your knees lining up with your 
feet. While holding the bar in position, extend 
your hips and bridge up until they are fully 
extended. Lower until the glutes are about to 
touch the floor and bridge again. Repeat.3 × 15
DB walking lunge \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8539, 
F 04.05f, ID: 608187, here\Stand with your feet parallel to each other and 
hip-width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, 
hands by your sides. Keeping your core tight, 
take a big step forward with your right leg and 
drop your body into a split squat. Rise and take 
a forward step with your left leg to return to the 
starting position. Repeat the sequence, lunging 
with your left leg.3 × 20 total  
(10 per leg)
DB back extension 
(toes out) \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6932, 
F 04.05g, ID: 608188, here\Place your feet on the footplate of a 45-degree 
bench, your toes pointing out and the thigh pads 
set on your thighs below the hip bone. Hold a 
dumbbell or weight plate at your chest. Keeping 
your back straight, flex at the hips until you feel 
a comfortable stretch in the in the glutes and 
hamstrings. Extend your hips to the starting 
position. Repeat.3 × 10
Table 4.5 His Legs and Hips 5: Bret’s Weights Workout (continued)

33Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
DAY 2 (CONTINUED)
Extended range 
side-lying hip 
abduction \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8585, 
F 04.05h, ID: 608189, here\Lie on a stable and secured weight bench on 
your left side, resting on your left elbow. Hold 
the bench with your right hand for support. Bend 
your left knee at the end of the bench and let your 
right leg hang fully extended over the end of the 
bench, your toes pointing to the ground. Abduct 
your right hip, raising your right foot. Squeeze the 
right glute at the top of the movement and lower 
to the starting position. Repeat desired reps then 
switch sides and repeat on the other side. 3 × 20  
per leg
DAY 3
Barbell hip thrust 
(3 sec pause at 
top)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6920, 
F 04.05i, ID: 608190, here\Sit on the ground and rest your upper back on a 
weight bench. Roll a barbell over your hips. (You 
may use a pad between the bar and your hips, 
if desired.) Bend your knees and keep your feet 
flat on the ground between hip- and shoulder-
width apart. Securing the barbell with your 
hands, extend your hips and bridge up until they 
are fully extended. Pause for 3 sec at the top of 
the movement. Lower until your glutes almost 
touch the ground. Repeat.3 × 5
Barbell sumo 
deadlift \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8523, 
F 04.05j, ID: 608191, here\Stand in front of a barbell in a wide parallel 
stance, your feet pointing out. Keeping your 
core tight and your knees slightly bent, flex 
your hips and knees and grab the bar with your 
hands hip- to shoulder-width apart. You may 
use an alternating or a pronated grip. Drive 
through your heels, extending the legs and 
hips simultaneously until you are standing fully 
erect. Reverse the sequence and lower the bar 
to the ground. Repeat.3 × 6
Barbell front squat \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8525, 
F 04.05k, ID: 608192, here\Using a power rack, safely place a barbell on 
your front shoulder muscles. Stand with your 
feet about shoulder-width apart. Keep the core 
tight and torso as vertical as possible through -
out the entire movement. Flex at the knees and 
hips until you reach a sitting position about 
chair level. Return to the starting position. 
Repeat.6 × 4
Band seated hip 
abduction\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_6949, 
F 04.05l, ID: 608193, here\Place band around your legs, below or above the 
knees, whichever is more comfortable. Sit on 
a bench or chair with your feet about shoulder-
width apart. Abduct your legs and roll on the 
outside of your feet. Adduct your legs and flat -
ten your feet. Repeat for prescribed reps.3 × 20


34Table 4.6 His Legs and Hips 6: Get Massive
Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
Barbell squat \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8494, 
F 04.06a, ID: 608195, here\Using a power rack, safely place a bar on your 
back, right on the trapezius muscles. Stand 
with your feet about shoulder-width apart. Keep 
the core tight and back straight throughout the 
entire movement. Flex your hips and knees until 
you reach a sitting position about chair level. 
Return to the starting position.3 × 8-12
Barbell deadlift \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7423, 
F 04.06b, ID: 608196, here\Stand in front of a barbell, your feet shoulder-
width apart and your toes pointing forward. You 
may use any style grip. Keeping your core tight 
and your knees slightly bent, flex your hips and 
knees and grab the bar with your hands hip- to 
shoulder-width apart. Drive through your heels, 
extending your legs and hips simultaneously 
until you are standing fully erect. Reverse the 
sequence and lower the barbell to the floor. 
Repeat the lifting motion. 3 × 8-12
DB/KB lateral 
reaching lunge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7322, 
F 04.06c, ID: 608197, here\Stand upright with your feet hip-width apart. 
Hold a dumbbell in each hand. Keeping your 
core tight, take a big lateral step with your left 
leg, landing in a slight lunge. Flex your hips 
and reach toward your left foot until you feel 
a comfortable stretch in your left hamstrings. 
Return to the starting position and repeat on the 
right side.3 × 8-10  
per leg
HIS LEGS AND HIPS 6: GET MASSIVE
This 4-week program is a heavy-duty hypertrophy program that will tax your resolve and recovery. 
It has the best of parallel- and unilateral-stance training, addressing strength imbalances between 
the right and left legs. As with the previous Bret Contreras workout, for the first week, start at 
a weight that allows you to easily complete the workout. Then add 2.5%-5% each week. You 
will feel this increase over 4 weeks! The goal is to get stronger but not get stuck at any week, 
especially weeks 3 and 4. If that happens, you’ve progressed too fast.
Equipment
Power rack, barbell, dumbbells, plyometric box or weight bench, cable machine, 45-degree back 
extension bench, stability ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.

35Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
DB Bulgar -
ian squat (may 
also use Smith 
machine; split 
squat with rear 
foot elevated)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8545, 
F 04.06d, ID: 608198, here\Hold dumbbells by your sides. Stand on your 
right leg and place your left foot on top of a 
box or bench behind you. Keeping your core 
tight, perform a split squat, your right foot on 
the ground in front you and your left foot on a 
box or bench behind you. Return to the starting 
position and repeat the split squat for the pre -
scribed reps. Repeat on the left leg.3 × 8-12  
per side
BP low-to-high 
chop\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8552, 
F 04.06e, ID: 608199, here\Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold 
a cable handle in both hands in front of you. The 
cable should be in the lowest position available 
and to your right. Keeping your arms straight 
and the core tight, rotate to the right while 
sinking into the right hip and lowering the cable 
handle toward the cable pulley. Return to the 
starting position and complete all reps. Switch 
to the other side and repeat.3 × 12  
per side
45-degree 
weighted back 
extension (toes 
out) \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8564, 
F 04.06f, ID: 608200, here\Place your feet on the footplate of a 45-degree 
angled bench, your toes pointing out and the 
thigh pads set on your thighs below the hip 
bone. Hold a dumbbell or weight plate at your 
chest. Keeping your back straight, flex at the 
hips until you feel a comfortable stretch in the 
glute and hamstrings. Extend your body to the 
original position. Repeat.3 × 15-20
SB triple threat 
burn\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8572, 
F 04.06g, ID: 608201, here\SB bridge (lie supine with your feet on a stability 
ball; raise and lower hips for reps indicated). SB 
leg curl (without lowering your hips, flex and 
extend your knees to perform leg curls). SB hip 
lift (without lowering your hips, walk the ball 
down until the stability ball is under the balls 
of your feet; perform short hip lifts). Return to 
starting position and repeat for the prescribed 
number of reps.2-3 × 15  
+ 15 + 15


36Table 4.7 Her Legs and Hips 1: Glutes, Band Only
Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Band squat 
abduction\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7006, 
F 04.07a, ID: 608203, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more 
comfortable. Assume a squat position 
with your feet about shoulder-width apart 
and your knees slightly inside your feet 
(adducted). Abduct (open) your legs, 
rolling slightly to the outside of your feet. 
Adduct your legs and flatten your feet to 
return to the starting position. Repeat for 
prescribed reps.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 20
Week 3 3 × 20
Week 4 3 × 30
1b. Band hip-hinge 
abduction\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7010, 
F 04.07b, ID: 608204, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more 
comfortable. Assume a high deadlift posi -
tion with your knees slightly bent, your 
shoulders over your feet, your feet about 
shoulder-width apart, and your knees 
slightly inside your feet (adducted). Keep -
ing your back straight, abduct (open) your 
legs, rolling slightly to the outside of your 
feet. Adduct your legs and flatten your feet 
to return to the starting position. Repeat 
for prescribed reps.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 20
Week 3 3 × 20
Week 4 3 × 30
HER LEGS AND HIPS 1: GLUTES, BAND ONLY
This 4-week program is a monster high-volume glutes-only program and makes a great home 
or travel program. This is one of my favorites when I only have about 15 minutes to work out; 
nothing pumps your glutes more than this one. This workout uses 2 circuits of 3 exercises each. 
Go from one exercise to the other until the circuit is completed. Everything is done in a smooth 
but dynamic fashion. Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 
can be repeated twice each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher 
ranges in weeks 3 and 4 are for advanced trainees.
Equipment
Circle band, weight bench or elevated surface
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 2 or 3 times per week if this is the only glute training you are doing. If 
you are using this workout to supplement your leg training, perform 1 or 2 times per week.HER WORKOUTS

37Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1c. Band seated 
three-way abduc -
tion\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7017, 
F 04.07c, ID: 608205, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more 
comfortable. Sit at the end of a bench with 
your feet on the ground about shoulder-
width apart. Keeping your back straight, 
abduct (open) your legs, rolling slightly to 
the outside of your feet. Close your legs 
and flatten your feet to return to the start -
ing position. Repeat for the prescribed 
reps in each position continuously: 
position 1, lean back and place hands on 
bench for support; position 2, sit upright; 
position 3, lean forward, keeping back 
straight.Week 1 2 × 15 per  
position
Week 2 2 × 20 per  
position
Week 3 3 × 25 per  
position
Week 4 3 × 30 per  
position
2a. Band glute 
bridge \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8496, 
F 04.07d, ID: 608206, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more com -
fortable. Lie on the ground, your knees 
bent and your feet flat on the ground. Put 
your feet between hip- and shoulder-width 
apart. While keeping your legs open and 
knees lined up with your feet, extend your 
hips and bridge up until your hips are fully 
extended. Holding the extended position, 
perform abduction and adduction of the 
legs for prescribed number of repetitions. Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 2 × 20
Week 3 3 × 25
Week 4 3 × 30
2b. Band bridge 
abduction\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7032, 
F 04.07e, ID: 608207, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more 
comfortable. Sit on the ground with your 
knees bent, keeping your feet flat on the 
ground and between hip- and shoulder-
width apart. While keeping your legs open 
and your knees lined up with your feet, 
extend your hips and bridge up until your 
hips are fully extended. Lower until the 
glutes are about to touch the floor and 
bridge again. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 2 × 20
Week 3 3 × 25
Week 4 3 × 30
2c. Frog pump \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7049, 
F 04.07f, ID: 608208, here\Lie on your back with knees flexed, legs 
open, the bottoms of your feet together, 
and your heels as close to your glutes 
as possible. Tuck your chin in as if you 
were going to start an abdominal crunch. 
Raise your hips to perform a short bridge, 
then lower short of touching the ground. 
Repeat. I suggest performing this exercise 
facing a wall away from gym traffic.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 2 × 20
Week 3 3 × 25
Week 4 3 × 30


38Table 4.8 Her Legs and Hips 2: Bret’s At-Home Workout
Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
DAY 1
Single-leg glute 
bridge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7052, 
F 04.08a, ID: 608210, here\Lie flat in a supine position. Keeping your left 
knee flexed at 90 degrees and right leg in the air, 
raise your hips, squeezing your glutes at the top. 
Lower your hips short of reaching the ground. 
Repeat. Perform to the other side.3 × 12 per leg 
Bulgarian split 
squat\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7057, 
F 04.08b, ID: 608211, here\Stand on your left leg and place your right foot 
on top of a box, bench, or chair behind you. 
Keeping your core tight, perform a split squat 
with your left foot on the ground in front you 
and your right foot on a box or bench behind 
you. Return to the starting position and repeat 
the split-squat motion for the prescribed reps. 
Repeat on the right side.3 × 12 per leg 
Quadruped hip 
extension (1 sec 
squeeze at the top)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7063, 
F 04.08c, ID: 608212, here\Get on your hands and knees. Extend your left 
leg back and out about 30 degrees, slightly 
externally rotating your foot during your hip 
extension. Lower your left leg to the starting 
position and repeat for the prescribed reps. 
Perform with the right leg. 3 × 12 per leg 
Side-lying hip 
raise \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7074, 
F 04.08d, ID: 608213, here\Lie on your right side, resting on your right 
elbow, and put your left hand on the floor for 
support. Your body is straight and both knees 
flexed 90 degrees throughout the entire move -
ment, supporting your lower body on your right 
knee. Simultaneously raise your hips and open 
your legs as much as you can. Lower to the 
starting position and repeat for the prescribed 
reps. Perform on the left side.3 × 12 per leg 
HER LEGS AND HIPS 2: BRET’S AT-HOME WORKOUT
This is a simple at-home workout designed by my buddy, Bret Contreras, the glute guy. Don’t 
think that just because it’s a home workout it’s easy and won’t work. This is a serious glute work -
out for anyone! This workout can be done anywhere, even while on a vacation, so no excuses!
Equipment
Low box, step, or medicine ball; weight bench (optional); stability ball
Notes
Add calf work from his leg and hips workout 4 if desired. Perform program for 6 weeks.

39Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
DAY 2
Frog pump \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7049, 
F 04.08e, ID: 608214, here\Lie facing up with your knees flexed, your legs 
open, the bottoms of your feet together, and 
your heels as close to your glutes as possible. 
Tuck your chin in as if you were going to start an 
abdominal crunch. Raise your hips to perform 
a short bridge. Lower short of touching the 
ground. Repeat. I suggest performing this exer -
cise facing a wall away from gym traffic.3 × 30
Reverse lunge \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7083, 
F 04.08f, ID: 608215, here\Stand tall with your feet hip-width apart. Keep -
ing your weight on your left foot, take a big step 
back with your right foot. Lower your body by 
bending your knees until your left thigh is paral -
lel to the floor. Step forward with the right leg to 
return to the starting position and repeat on the 
opposite side. 3 × 20 per leg 
Single-leg foot 
elevated hip thrust \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7091, 
F 04.08g, ID: 608216, here\Lie on the ground. Place your left foot on a 
bench so that the knee is flexed at 90 degrees. 
Keeping your right leg in the air, extend your 
hips and bridge up until they are fully extended. 
Lower your hips as much as possible without 
touching the ground. Repeat the bridging 
motion for prescribed reps. Perform on the right 
leg.3 × 15 per leg 
Extended range 
side-lying hip 
abduction \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7099, 
F 04.08h, ID: 608217, here\Lie on a bench or the floor on your right side, 
resting on your right elbow. With your left hand, 
hold the bench or floor for support. Bend your 
right knee at the end of the bench or floor and 
let your left leg hang over the end of the bench 
fully extended, your toes pointing to the ground. 
Abduct your left hip, raising your left foot. 
Squeeze the left glute at the top of the move -
ment and return to starting position. Repeat and 
perform to both sides.3 × 20 per leg 
DAY 3
Spread eagle 
reverse hyperex -
tension\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7105, 
F 04.08i, ID: 608218, here\Kneel in front of a stability ball. Secure your 
core and upper body over the stability ball, (or 
substitute with a bench or another secure struc -
ture) with your elbows on the ground. Keeping 
your legs straight, open your legs and exter -
nally rotate your feet (feet point out). Extend 
your hips, raising your legs as high as you can 
(reverse extension). Lower short of your feet 
touching the ground and repeat for desired reps.3 × 20
(continued)

40Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
DAY 3 (CONTINUED)
Curtsy lunge \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7108, 
F 04.08j, ID: 608219, here\Stand tall, your feet hip-width apart. Hands 
can be at your waist or in front of you. Keeping 
your weight on your left foot, take a big step to 
the left with your right leg, crossing it behind 
your left leg. Lower your body by bending your 
knees until your left thigh is parallel to the floor. 
Return to the starting position and repeat on the 
opposite side.3 × 8 per leg
Feet elevated hip 
thrust \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7116, 
F 04.08k, ID: 608220, here\Sit on the ground and rest your upper back 
on a bench, box, or chair. Place your feet on a 
bench, box, or chair so that the knees are flexed 
90 degrees and your feet are flat on the bench, 
between hip- and shoulder-width apart. Extend 
your hips and bridge up until they are fully 
extended. Lower hips as low as possible without 
losing your support on the benches, and repeat 
the bridging motion for prescribed reps.3 × 20
Fire hydrant (quad -
ruped abduction)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7121, 
F 04.08l, ID: 608221, here\Get on your hands and knees. Abduct your left 
leg to the side until your left thigh is parallel to 
the ground, slightly externally rotating your foot 
during your hip abduction. Bring your left leg 
back down to the starting position and repeat 
for prescribed reps. Perform with the right leg.3 × 20 per leg 
HER LEGS AND HIPS 3: GLUTES ONLY
This 4-week glutes-only program can be added as an extra day to your existing leg and hip train -
ing or can be used if your knees and cervical spine are acting up and you can’t do traditional leg 
exercises such as squats and lunges. Since this workout uses inexpensive equipment that travels 
well, like a set of JC Predator Jr. and IHP circle bands, it is a great option for a quick workout at 
home or on the road. Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 
can be repeated twice each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher 
ranges of weeks 3 and 4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Barbell, dumbbells, circle band, bench, cable machine or band (such as a JC Traveler or Predator 
Jr.), stability ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.Table 4.8 Her Legs and Hips 2: Bret’s At-Home Workout (continued)

41Table 4.9 Her Legs and Hips 3: Glutes Only
Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1a. BB/DB Roma -
nian deadlift \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7131, 
F 04.09a, ID: 608224, here\Stand in front of a barbell (or hold a dumb -
bell in each hand), your feet shoulder-
width apart and toes pointing forward. 
Keeping your core tight and your knees 
slightly bent, flex your hips and knees 
and grab the bar with your hands hip- to 
shoulder-width apart (or hold dumbbells 
in front of your thighs). Use any com -
fortable grip you prefer. Drive through 
your heels, extending the legs and hips 
simultaneously until you are standing fully 
erect. Reverse the sequence and lower the 
weight to the starting position. Repeat the 
lifting motion.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. Band seated 
hip abduction\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7017, 
F 04.09b, ID: 608226, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more com -
fortable. Sit upright on a bench with your 
feet slightly wider than shoulder-width 
apart, your back straight. Abduct your legs 
and roll to the outside of your feet. Adduct 
your legs and flatten your feet. Perform 
prescribed reps.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 5 × 20
2a. BP staggered 
stance CLA Roma -
nian deadlift \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7138, 
F 04.09c, ID: 608228, here\Stand in a staggered stance, left foot for -
ward. Hold a low cable in your right hand. 
Keeping your core tight, flex your hips and 
reach your right hand toward the cable 
until you feel a comfortable stretch in your 
left hamstrings. Return to the starting 
position and repeat, completing succes -
sive reps to each side of the body. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8 per leg
Week 2 3 × 10 per leg 
Week 3 4 × 12 per leg 
Week 4 5 × 10 per leg 
2b. Band lateral 
walk \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7143, 
F 04.09d, ID: 608229, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more 
comfortable. Stand in a semisquat posi -
tion with your feet hip-width apart. Keep 
your back straight. Lean forward slightly. 
Take a lateral step to the right to a stance 
slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. 
Step your left foot toward your right 
foot until feet are hip-width apart again. 
Perform prescribed reps to the right, then 
switch direction and move left.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 10 per leg
Week 3 4 × 10 per leg
Week 4 5 × 10 per leg
3a. Frog reverse 
hyperextension\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7147, 
F 04.09e, ID: 608230, here\Kneel in front of a stability ball. Secure 
your core and upper body over the 
stability ball, (or substitute with a bench 
or another secure structure) with your 
elbows on the ground. Flex your knees and 
open your legs with the bottoms of your 
feet together, heels as close to your glutes 
as possible. Extend your hips, raising your 
legs as high as you can (reverse exten -
sion). Lower your legs short of touching 
the ground. Repeat for desired reps. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 5 × 20
(continued)

42Table 4.10 Her Legs and Hips 4: Functional
Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1a. MB ABC squat \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7155, 
F 04.10a, ID: 608233, here\Stand with your feet slightly wider than 
shoulder-width apart and your knees 
slightly bent. Hold a medicine ball in 
front of you. Squat and push the ball to 
the right, about 45 degrees from center. 
Return to the starting position. Squat and 
push the ball to the left, about 45 degrees 
from center. Return to the starting posi -
tion. Both directions (i.e., 2 squats) equals 
1 rep.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 5 × 15
1b. MB/DB lateral 
reaching lunge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7160, 
F 04.10b, ID: 608234, here\Stand with your feet hip-width apart and 
your knees bent. Hold a medicine ball or 
dumbbells in your hands. Keeping your 
core tight, take a big lateral step with your 
left foot, bending your left leg slightly. 
Flex the hips and reach toward your left 
foot until you feel a comfortable stretch in 
your left hamstrings. Return to the start -
ing position and repeat to the right side.Week 1 2 × 5 per leg
Week 2 3 × 7 per leg
Week 3 4 × 10 per leg
Week 4 5 × 15 per legExercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
3b. Frog pump \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7049, 
F 04.09f, ID: 608231, here\Lie facing up with your knees flexed 
and legs open, the bottoms of your feet 
together and your heels as close to your 
glutes as possible. Tuck in your chin as 
if you were going to start an abdominal 
crunch. Raise your hips to perform a 
short bridge. Lower short of touching the 
ground. Repeat. I suggest performing 
this exercise facing a wall away from gym 
traffic.Week 1 2 × 20
Week 2 3 × 30
Week 3 4 × 40
Week 4 5 × 50
Table 4.9 Her Legs and Hips 3: Glutes Only (continued)
HER LEGS AND HIPS 4: FUNCTIONAL
This 4-week program is a pure functional training program that will challenge anyone. It’s perfect 
for the female athlete or a woman looking to get in great shape and tone her body without getting 
big. There is a lot of unilateral training to make sure the lower body is free of possible asymmetric 
compensations that often lead to injury. This is a perfect home workout since it involves minimal 
inexpensive yet effective exercise equipment. Depending on your natural capacity and training 
history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice to reduce the 4-week volume and provide more 
time to adapt. The higher-volume ranges of weeks 3 and 4 are for the ladies with very advanced 
training experience.
Equipment
Medicine ball, dumbbells, gliding disk, stability ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.

43Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
2a. MB/DB split 
rear sliding squat\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7165, 
F 04.10c, ID: 608235, here\Stand with your feet hip-width apart and 
your knees bent. Hold a medicine ball or 
dumbbells in your hands. Keep your left 
foot on the ground and put your right foot 
on a gliding disk (or towel if on a wood 
or tile floor). Keeping your core tight, 
bend your left knee and slide your right 
foot back, sinking into a deep split squat; 
most of the weight remains on your left 
foot. Straighten your left leg to bring the 
body to the original position. Repeat for 
prescribed reps. Repeat with right leg.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 15 per leg
Week 3 4 × 20 per leg
Week 4 5 × 25 per leg
2b. MB/DB front 
reaching lunge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7167, 
F 04.10d, ID: 608236, here\Stand with your feet hip-width apart and 
your knees bent. Hold a medicine ball or 
dumbbells in your hands. Keeping your 
core tight, take a big step to the front 
with your right leg, bending your right leg 
slightly. Flex your hips and reach toward 
your right foot until you feel a comfortable 
stretch in your right hamstrings. Return 
to the starting position and repeat to the 
left side.Week 1 2 × 5 per leg 
Week 2 3 × 8 per leg 
Week 3 4 × 10 per leg 
Week 4 5 × 15 per leg 
3a. 45-degree calf 
pump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7187, 
F 04.10e, ID: 608237, here\Lean against a wall, with both hands on 
the wall, both heels up, and your body 
leaning at about 45-70 degrees. Raise 
your left knee, keeping your knee and left 
toes up. Perform quick right ankle pumps 
using a short range of motion. Repeat the 
ankle pumps on the left leg.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 20 per leg
Week 3 4 × 30 per leg
Week 4 5 × 40-50 per leg 
3b. SB triple threat 
burn\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7215, 
F 04.10f, ID: 608238, here\SB bridge (lie supine with your feet on a 
stability ball; raise and lower hips for reps 
indicated). SB leg curl (without lowering 
hips, flex and extend your knees for leg 
curls). SB hip lift (without lowering hips, 
walk the ball down until the stability ball is 
under the balls of your feet; perform short 
hip lifts).Week 1 2 × 10 + 10 + 10 
with 2 legs
Week 2 2 × 15 + 15 + 15 
with 2 legs
Week 3 2 × 5-10 + 5-10 + 
5-10 with 1 leg
Week 4 2 × 10-15 + 10-15 
+ 10-15 with 1 leg


44Table 4.11 Her Legs and Hips 5: Functional and Weights
Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
1a. MB/DB split 
squat\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7492, 
F 04.11a, ID: 608240, here\Stand in a lunge position (split-squat 
position) with your left foot forward. Hold 
a medicine ball in front of you or dumb -
bells by your sides. Keeping your core 
tight, bend your left knee and sink into a 
deep split squat. Straighten your left leg 
to return to the original position. Repeat 
for prescribed reps. Repeat with your right 
foot forward.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 12 per leg
Week 3 4 × 15 per leg
Week 4 5 × 10 per leg
1b. MB/DB curtsy 
lunge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7501, 
F 04.11b, ID: 608241, here\Stand tall with your feet hip-width apart. 
Hold a medicine ball in front of you or 
dumbbells at your sides. Keeping your 
weight on your left foot, take a big step 
to the left with your right leg, crossing it 
behind your left leg. Lower your body by 
bending your knees until your left thigh is 
parallel to the floor. Return to the starting 
position and repeat on the opposite side.Week 1 2 × 5 per leg
Week 2 3 × 7 per leg
Week 3 4 × 10 per leg
Week 4 5 × 12-15 per leg
2a. Single-leg 
glute bridge (foot 
elevated)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7510, 
F 04.11c, ID: 608242, here\Lie flat in a supine position. Put your left 
foot on top of a low box, step, or medicine 
ball. Keeping your left knee flexed to 90 
degrees and your right leg in the air, raise 
your hips, squeezing your glutes at the 
top. Lower the hips short of reaching the 
ground. Repeat with the other leg.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 12 per leg
Week 3 4 × 15 per leg
Week 4 5 × 15 per leg
HER LEGS AND HIPS 5: WEIGHTS AND FUNCTIONAL
This 4-week program is a functional training program that focuses on one of the problem areas 
of women’s bodies, the saddlebag area (the upper and outer portion of the thighs). This workout 
can be tailored to intermediate or advanced trainee, depending on what weeks are completed. 
It’s a perfect home routine since it involves minimal inexpensive yet effective exercise equipment. 
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice to 
reduce the 4-week volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher-volume ranges of weeks 
3 and 4 are for the ladies with very advanced training experience.
Equipment
Medicine ball, dumbbells, low box or step, circle band, bench, stability ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.

45Exercise Photo Description Weeks Sets × reps
2b. Band seated 
hip abduction\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7520, 
F 04.11d, ID: 608243, here\Place band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more 
comfortable. Sit on a bench with your feet 
slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. 
Keep your back straight. Abduct your 
legs and roll to the outsides of your feet. 
Adduct your legs and flatten your feet. 
Perform prescribed reps.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 15-20
Week 4 5 × 20-30
3a. Single-leg SB
bridge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7535, 
F 04.11e, ID: 608244, here\Lie flat in a supine position. Put your right 
leg on top of a stability ball. Keep your 
right leg slightly flexed and and your left 
leg in the air. Raise your hips, squeezing 
your glutes at the top. Lower your hips 
short of reaching the ground. Repeat with 
the other leg. Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 10 per leg
Week 3 4 × 15 per leg
Week 4 5 × 15 per leg
3b. 45-degree calf 
pump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7449, 
F 04.11f, ID: 608245, here\Lean against a wall, both hands on the 
wall, both heels up, and your body leaning 
forward at about 45-70 degrees. Raise 
your right knee and keep the toes up. Per -
form quick left ankle pumps using a short 
range of motion. Repeat the ankle pumps 
on your right leg.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg 
Week 2 3 × 15 per leg 
Week 3 4 × 20 per leg 
Week 4 5 × 30 per leg 
HER LEGS AND HIPS 6:  
CEM’S FITNESS COMPETITION WORKOUT
This is a 4- to 6-week program performed twice per week. This workout has been used by Cem 
Eren (www.diamondglutes.com), someone I consider one of the top coaches in the country 
for female figure competitors. This is a serious workout for women who have access to a well-
equipped gym and have the time and energy to devote to developing a great lower body. This 
kind of workout has been used by figure competitors such as Lauren Irick, who used it to become 
an IFBB pro and compete in the Olympia.
Equipment
Barbell, bench, dumbbells, power rack, circle band, leg curl machine, kettlebells, medicine ball
Notes
Perform this program 2 times per week for 4 to 6 weeks.

46Table 4.12 Her Legs and Hips 6: Cem’s Fitness Competition Workout
Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
1a. Barbell hip 
thrust (2 sec pause 
at top)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7540, 
F 04.12a, ID: 608247, here\Sit on the ground and rest your upper back on 
a bench. Roll a bar over your hips. (You may 
use a pad between the bar and your hips.) 
Bend your knees and keep your feet flat on the 
ground and between hip- and shoulder-width 
apart. Securing the bar with your hands, extend 
your hips and bridge up until your hips are 
fully extended. Pause for 2 sec at the top of 
the movement. Lower until your glutes almost 
touch the ground. Repeat.3 × 12-15
1b. DB split stance 
deadlift \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7546, 
F 04.12b, ID: 608248, here\Stand in a staggered stance, right foot forward. 
Hold a dumbbell in each hand. Keeping your 
core tight, flex your hips and reach your hands 
toward your right foot until you feel a comfort -
able stretch in your right hamstrings. Return to 
the starting position and repeat desired reps. 
Switch sides. 3 × 8-10 
per leg
2a. Barbell squat 
(1 sec pause at 
bottom)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7551, 
F 04.12c, ID: 608249, here\Using a power rack, safely place a bar on your 
back, right on the trapezius muscles. Stand 
with your feet about shoulder-width apart. Keep 
your core tight and back straight throughout the 
entire movement. Flex your hips and knees until 
you reach a sitting position about chair level. 
Pause for 1 sec at the bottom of the movement. 
Return to the starting position and repeat.3 × 10-12
2b. Lateral band 
walk\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7556, 
F 04.12d, ID: 608250, here\Place circle band around your legs, below or 
above the knees, whichever is more comfort -
able. Stand in a semisquat position with your 
feet hip-width apart. Keep your back straight. 
Lean forward slightly. Take a lateral step to 
the right so your feet are slightly wider than 
shoulder-width apart. Step left foot toward right 
foot until your feet are about hip-width apart 
again. Perform prescribed reps to the right, 
then move to the left.3 × 12  
per side
3a. Leg curl (2 sec 
up, 1 sec down)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1405, 
F 04.12e, ID: 608251, here\Lie facedown on the bench of a leg curl machine 
and put your feet under the leg pad, keeping 
the pad behind your ankles. Flex your knees as 
much as you can without lifting your hips off 
the bench, taking 2 seconds to complete the 
flexion. Extend your legs, taking 1 second to 
complete the extension. Repeat. 3 × 8-10 


47Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
3b. Goblet squat \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7561, 
F 04.12f, ID: 608252, hereHold a dumbbell or kettlebell with both hands 
in front of you at about shoulder level. Stand 
with your feet about shoulder-width apart and 
keep your core as tight and vertical as possible 
throughout the entire movement. Keeping the 
knees in line with your feet, flex at the knees 
until you reach a sitting position at about chair 
level. Return to the starting position and repeat.3 × 10-12 
4a. BB/DB 
Romanian deadlift 
(2-3 sec eccentric 
contraction)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7565, 
F 04.12g, ID: 608253, here\Stand in front of a barbell (or hold a dumbbell in 
each hand at sides), feet shoulder-width apart 
and toes pointing forward. Use any comfort -
able grip you prefer. Keeping your core tight 
and your knees slightly bent, flex your hips and 
knees and grab the bar with your hands hip- to 
shoulder-width apart (or hold your dumbbells in 
front of thighs). Pause for 2 sec at the bottom 
of the movement. Drive through your heels, 
extending your legs and hips simultaneously 
until you are standing fully erect. Reverse the 
sequence and lower the weight to the starting 
position. Repeat the lifting motion.3 × 8-10
4b. DB/MB lateral 
reaching lunge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8501, 
F 04.12h, ID: 608254, here\Stand with your feet hip-width apart and your 
knees bent. Hold a medicine ball or dumbbells 
in your hands. Keeping your core tight, take a 
big lateral step with your left leg, bending your 
left leg slightly. Flex your hips and reach toward 
your left foot until you feel a comfortable 
stretch in your left glute hamstrings. Return to 
the starting position and repeat on right side.3 × 8-10  
per side
5. Frog pump \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7577, 
F 04.12i, ID: 608255, here\Lie face up with your knees flexed, your legs 
open, the bottoms of your feet together, and 
your heels as close to your glutes as pos -
sible. Tuck in your chin as if you were going to 
start an abdominal crunch. Raise your hips to 
perform a short bridge. Lower your hips short 
of touching the ground. Repeat. I suggest per -
forming this exercise facing a wall away from 
gym traffic.2 × 50


JC’s Total Body Transformation 48
Summary
I hope you enjoyed the legs and hips workout chapter. Remember, these are just a 
few of the workouts that will provide excellent results in developing the correct lower 
body for your needs and preferences. Don’t be afraid to mix and match workouts and 
substitute exercises. The sky is the limit when it comes to creating the right workout 
for you. For a detailed discussion of the science and practice of program design and 
periodization, I refer you to Functional Training. That text covers periodization and 
program design and provides full descriptions and progressions for various leg work-
outs, such as the JC leg crank and triple threat.

49These core workouts are a diverse group of training routines that can sculpt your 
abs and help you maintain a fit lower back. These workouts are for healthy 
adults without any past or present back issues and who can perform basic sit-
ups and leg raises without negative symptoms or side effects. Just as you wouldn’t 
begin chest training with a 300-pound load for the bench press, you shouldn’t start 
core training with inappropriate loading of the core. Doing so may result in injury. 
Planned progression is always necessary when training any area of the body, but when 
it comes to the core, it is extremely important. The spine houses the spinal cord and 
many critical nerves. One injury anywhere along the spine can result in a debilitating 
injury, and nobody wants that. Invest in your safety and consult with a certified and 
insured personal trainer or therapist if you have had back issues in the past, have not 
worked out in some time, or are simply not very experienced in training and don’t 
know exactly what to do.
Many of the glute workouts from the previous chapter can be used to strengthen 
the lower back in a more traditional fashion. Although some of the workouts in this 
chapter include some lower-back training, we will focus on the abdominal region. 
We will start with the easiest workouts and work up to more intense routines. We 
start with bodyweight workouts, then throw in stability balls, dumbbells, and bands 
to make things more interesting. While some of these workouts actually make your 
core move through a range of motion, others require you to remain stiff while forces 
are applied, developing core rigidity. I called this “training the invisible” back in 1999. 
Dr. Stuart McGill has coined the term super-stiffness  to refer to training core stiffness, 
which is the foundation of a high-performing core that stays healthy and allows power 
to be transferred between the hips and shoulders. In many of these workouts, I provide 
beginner and advanced volume ranges so everyone can safely enjoy the workouts by 
choosing an appropriate volume to match his or her ability. Always err on the side of 
caution and be conservative: If in doubt, do less.
Much has been written about the safety or appropriateness of some abdominal 
exercises. Some exercises, especially those that flex the spine (e.g., sit-ups, leg raises, 
knee tucks) have been labeled dangerous because they cause unwanted wear on the 
spine and its discs. Exercises such as sit-ups and leg raises were staples of core train -
ing in schools, the military, paramilitary groups, and law enforcement and fire rescue 
squads. It’s likely today’s sedentary lifestyle and consequent physical weakness are 
more to blame for the low-back pain epidemic seen today, not these exercises. It is my 
humble opinion that none of these exercises are dangerous or undesirable. I point to 
the generations of athletes and others who have performed them with no deleterious 
effects on health or function. These exercises simply require a base level of condi -Abs and Core5 CHAPTER 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 50
tioning to be able to perform them without any negative impact, just like any other 
exercise. Any exercise, if applied incorrectly, with incorrect progression, or with the 
wrong population, can cause harm. Therefore, the keys to enjoying the workouts in 
this chapter (or any other chapter) are:
1. Develop a base of training before attempting any workout.
2. Always train without pain and stop at the first sign of pain or other abnormal 
symptom.
3. Keep your movements under control.
4. Seek the guidance of a certified fitness or strength professional if you are not 
sure of what you are doing. Even one session with a trainer can save you time 
and prevent a trip to an orthopedic physician or emergency room.
The his and her  workouts in this chapter are less polarizing than the legs and hips 
chapter because traditional exercises, such as sit-ups, were traditionally performed by 
both sexes, as have newer core exercises such as stability ball extensions. Therefore, 
culturally speaking, these workouts have more carryover across the sexes. Remember, 
muscles and performance have no bias. Muscles respond to training, and performance 
is gained by smart, hard work.
Two factors dictate how your core looks: the size of the muscles and the amount of 
fat covering the muscles. (This will be addressed again in the nutrition chapter.) Of 
these two factors, when it comes to looks, the more important factor is the amount 
of fat covering the core. Unfortunately, diet is the most important factor in removing 
the fat that hides the core muscles, especially the abdominal muscles. Rest assured 
that some of the muscle-building workouts in this chapter will allow you to build the 
muscle so it is more visible. And the functional and core-stiffening workouts provide 
excellent functional performance qualities and tone the core muscles. When combined 
with a lower percentage of body fat, the muscles will look aesthetically pleasing. Now, 
let’s get to work.
Regardless of the suggestions provided for the sequence and execution of the work -
outs in this chapter, you can perform these workouts in succession if you need more 
rest and have more time to train, or you can perform them in sequence if you are in 
a hurry or want more of a metabolic burn. Each has advantages and disadvantages.
With succession training, you perform all sets of an exercise before going to the next 
exercise. This type of training is good if you have more time to train, use more rest 
between sets, and use heavier training loads. The succession method is also preferred 
if each exercise requires a different load or set-up; changing load and set-up after every 
set takes time and kills your rhythm.
With the sequence method, you go from one exercise to the next without rest, like 
you’re doing one big circuit. This method is best when you are using the same load 
with each exercise or have set-ups that can be quickly changed (e.g., a quick change in 
body positions). However, if you have all exercises (loads and equipment) already set 
up, you can perform any workout that uses different equipment or loads in a sequence 
without losing any time. The main benefit of sequence training is its time efficiency. 
Since you are performing a giant circuit, you use less weight but still get a great pump 
and tone in a short time. Sequencing (or circuit training) is great when time is tight 
and you don’t want huge muscles.
As always, feel free to mix and match exercises from each of the workouts. Although 
I added posterior core work in all these workouts, I emphasize the abdominal region 

51 Abs and Core
since there is such a comprehensive selection of workouts for the back of the core in 
the legs and hips chapter. Therefore, if you are already getting enough posterior core 
work through other workouts and want to do only abdominal work in these routines, 
feel free to leave the lower-back work out of these workouts. You can take any work -
out and split it in half, taking two days to perform the workout. This way, you can 
work your abs and core a little every day. The abs and core are made up of endurance 
muscles, so they can take the everyday work unless it becomes excessive, and half of 
any of these routines is not excessive. Finally, don’t be afraid to repeat any week if 
you feel the workout is progressing too fast for you. If you feel any week is perfect for 
your capacity, stay there and maintain your core fitness. There is nothing wrong with 
reaching a level at which you are happy and staying there. So, play conservatively and 
stay healthy and pain-free.
Base Workout
Although progressions for beginners and advanced trainees are provided in each 
workout, I strongly recommend everyone finish the two-week workout shown here 
as a base before attempting any of the workouts in this chapter.
WEEK 1: PERFORM EACH EXERCISE SEPARATELY, IN SUCCESSION
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Plank (2 × 5-10 sec): Assume a push-up position, balancing on your hands or elbows.
Side plank right (2 × 5-10 sec): Balance on your right hand or elbow and both feet; 
hold a side position, the right side of your body toward the ground and the left 
side of your body toward the ceiling.
Side plank left (2 × 5-10 sec): Balance on your left hand or elbow and both feet; hold 
a side position, the left side of your body toward the ground and the right side of 
your body toward the ceiling.Caution: Diastasis Recti
People with a condition called diastasis recti need to be very careful when 
performing abdominal training. Some abdominal exercises are contraindicated 
for people with this condition. Diastasis recti, also called abdominal separation, 
occurs when pressure on the rectus abdominis muscles pushes them apart. 
Often it is caused by stretching or thinning of the linea alba, the connective 
tissue that holds the two sides of the rectus abdominis together. Development 
of the condition may be genetic or may be caused or worsened by pregnancy, 
overweight, or heavy strength training.
Many exercises in the chapter are not appropriate for people with this con -
dition. Please stay away from the heavy exercises (e.g. sit-ups, leg raises, roll-
outs, hanging knee tucks, etc.) and concentrate on more functional exercises 
that create less abdominal pressure (e.g. standing band and pulley presses and 
row, rotations, and limited short crunches). Check with your doctor before 
beginning this or any other exercise program.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 52
Tuesday, Thursday
Contralateral bird dog (2 × 5-10 per side): Assume a four-point position with your 
hands and knees on the ground. Extend your right arm and left leg until both are 
parallel to the ground. Alternate sides with each rep.
Crunch (2 × 5-10): Lie on your back with your knees slightly bent, feet flat on ground, 
and arms across your chest. Crunch your upper torso until your shoulder blades 
are off the ground. Return to the starting position and repeat.
Single-leg raise (2 × 5-10 per leg): Lie flat on your back with your right knee slightly 
bent, right foot flat on ground, and arms by your sides. Lift your left leg about a 
foot (0.3 m) off the ground and then lower until it’s just off the ground. Repeat the 
up-and-down motion of your left foot for desired repetitions, then switch legs. 
If the single-leg version is too easy, perform with both legs (i.e., simultaneously 
lifting both legs).
WEEK 2: PERFORM EACH EXERCISE IN SEQUENCE AS A CIRCUIT
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Side plank right + plank + side plank left (3 × 5-10 sec each): Assume each position 
and hold the position for the time indicated.
Tuesday, Thursday
Superman + side crunch right + crunch + leg raise + side crunch left (3 × 5-10)
Superman: Lie on your belly and simultaneously lift your arms and legs as if you 
were flying through the air.
Side crunch right: Lie on your left side. Laterally flex right and lift your upper torso 
off the ground.
Crunch: Lie on your back with your knees slightly bent, feet flat on ground, and 
arms across your chest. Crunch your upper torso until your shoulder blades are 
off the ground. Return to the starting position and repeat.
Leg raise (single- or double-leg) (5-10 per leg, if doing single-leg leg raises): Lie flat 
on your back with your right knee slightly bent, right foot flat on ground, and 
arms by your sides. Lift your left leg about a foot off the ground and then lower 
it until it’s just off the ground. Repeat the up-and-down motion of your left foot. 
If the single-leg version is too easy, simultaneously lift both legs.
Side crunch left: Lie on your right side. Laterally flex left and lift your upper torso 
off the ground.

53Table 5.1 His Abs and Core 1: Plank and Crunch Abs
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Plank with 
lateral knee tuck\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7880, 
F 05.01a, ID: 608257, here\Assume a push-up (plank) position. Bring 
your right knee to your right elbow. Return 
to the starting position and perform to the 
other side.Week 1 1 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
1b. Crunch (use 
bench to recline 
and make more 
difficult)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7883, 
F 05.01b, ID: 608258, here\Lie on your back on the ground or a bench, 
your knees bent and your feet flat on the 
ground or bench. Your hands can cup your 
ears or be crossed across your chest. Flex 
your core and bring your shoulder blades 
off the ground or bench. Return to the 
starting position and repeat.Week 1 1 × 15
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
2a. Plank with 
cross knee tuck\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7885, 
F 05.01c, ID: 608259, here\Assume a push-up (plank) position. Bring 
your right knee to your left elbow. Return 
to the starting position and perform to the 
other side.Week 1 1 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
HIS ABS AND CORE 1: PLANK AND CRUNCH ABS
This 4-week program is made up of two 2-exercise circuits and a finisher. Since this workout uses 
plank positions, it may be challenging for people who suffer from wrist issues. If you are one of 
those people, use push-up handles to help you position your wrists in a more neutral pain-free 
position. Another option to make the training a little less intense on the wrists and core, but still 
get good abdominal work, is to use a box or a bar to elevate the push-up position. This workout 
is an excellent choice for use as a home or travel workout, especially if you don’t have too much 
time to train.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice 
each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 3 and 
4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Bench (optional)
Notes
For added concentration on shoulder stability and abdominal endurance, perform exercises 1a 
and 2a in a circuit and 1b and 2b in a second circuit. Exhale before every repetition to rid yourself 
of extra volume in the core and allow a greater contraction.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.HIS WORKOUTS
(continued)

54Table 5.2  His Abs and Core 2: Band and Crunch Abs
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Band ABC 
crunch 
Attach a band to a high position on a 
pull-up bar or at the top of a door. Kneel 
on a soft surface in front of the band. Hold 
the handles with your palms facing you. 
Crunch and rotate to the left, bringing 
bringing your right elbow to your left 
knee. Return to the starting position and 
perform to the right side. Return to the 
starting position and crunch, bringing 
each hand to the outside of the same side 
knee. This completes one round trip.Week 1 2 × 3 round trips
Week 2 2 × 4 round trips
Week 3 3 × 5 round trips
Week 4 4 × 6 round tripsExercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. Reverse 
crunch (use incline 
bench to make 
more difficult)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7890, 
F 05.01d, ID: 608260, here\Lie on your back on the ground or a bench, 
your legs lifted in a vertical position. Hold 
on to a fixed structure above your head or 
a partner and lift your hips off the ground 
or bench toward the ceiling. Lower your 
hips to the starting position and repeat.Week 1 1 × 15
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
Finisher: contralat -
eral bird dog\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7897, 
F 05.01e, ID: 608261, hereAssume a four-point position on your 
hands and knees. Extend your right arm 
and left leg simultaneously. Return to the 
starting position and perform on the other 
side.Week 1 1 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
Table 5.1 His Abs and Core 1: Plank and Crunch Abs (continued)
HIS ABS AND CORE 2: BAND AND CRUNCH ABS
This 4-week program uses body weight and band exercises to create three 2-exercise circuits. 
The combination of standing and lying positions makes this workout diverse and applicable to a 
wide array of individuals, from athletes looking to improve function in their sports to individuals 
looking for a toned and thin midsection. The bands recommended for this workout are the JC 
Sports Band (4 ft [1.2m] band) or the JC Traveler (2 ft [0.6 m] band). They are the best bands 
on the market and can really provide a challenge while performing any exercise in this book. 
Depending on a person’s natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated 
twice each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 
3 and 4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Band with handles (such as JC Traveler or sports band), sturdy structure for anchoring the band
Notes
Exhale before every repetition to rid yourself of extra volume in the core and allow a greater con -
traction.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.

55Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1b. Cyclic crunch \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7912, 
F 05.02b, ID: 608264, here\Lie flat on your back with your feet about 
6 in (15 cm) from the ground. Your hands 
can cup your ears. Flex your core and hips 
while rotating, bringing your right elbow 
toward your left knee. Return to the start -
ing position and perform to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 10 per side
Week 3 3 × 15 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
2a. Band ABC 
extension\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7921, 
F 05.02c, ID: 608265, here\Attach a band to a low position on a sturdy 
object such as a dumbbell rack or below 
the low hinge of a door. Hold the handles 
with your palms facing your legs. Extend 
your arms overhead, rotating to the left 
to bring both hands high and to the left of 
your body. Return to the starting position 
and perform to the right side. Return to 
the starting position and extend again 
to bring both hands directly above each 
shoulder. This completes one round trip.Week 1 2 × 3 round trips
Week 2 2 × 4 round trips
Week 3 3 × 5 round trips
Week 4 4 × 6 round trips
2b. Contralateral 
bird dog \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7897, 
F 05.02d, ID: 608266, here\Assume a four-point position on your 
hands and knees. Extend your right arm 
and left leg simultaneously. Return to the 
starting position and perform to the other 
side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 10 per side
Week 3 3 × 15 per side
Week 4 4 × 10 per side
3a. BP short 
rotation (10 to 2 
o’clock) \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7932, 
F 05.02e, ID: 608267, here\Attach a band to a stable structure (e.g., 
door) at chest level. Turn sideways so the 
anchor point is to your right, your feet 
wider than shoulder-width apart. Hold 
the handle in both hands in front of you 
(hands at 12 o’clock). Without moving 
your hips, move the handle from shoulder 
to shoulder (from 10 to 2 o’clock). Per -
form with the other side of the body facing 
the anchor point.Week 1 2 × 15 per side
Week 2 3 × 20 per side
Week 3 3 × 25 per side
Week 4 4 × 30 per side
3b. Band lateral 
bend\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7940, 
F 05.02f, ID: 608268, here\Attach a band to a low position (between 
the knee and ankle) on a sturdy object such 
as a dumbbell rack or below the low hinge 
of a door. Turn sideways so the anchor 
point is to your right, your feet wider than 
shoulder-width apart. Hold the handle in 
your right hand to your right side. Without 
moving your hips, laterally flex (bend) your 
core to the right, stretching the left side of 
your core, and return to the starting posi -
tion. Perform to the other side.Week 1 2 × 15 per side
Week 2 3 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 20 per side
Week 4 4 × 20 per side


56Table 5.3 His Abs and Core 3: Dumbbell Abs
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. DB crunch (on 
BOSU, floor, or 
bench)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7944, 
F 05.03a, ID: 608270, here\Lie on your back on the ground, BOSU, 
or bench, your knees bent and feet flat 
on ground or bench. Hold a dumbbell in 
both hands across your chest. Flex your 
core and bring your shoulder blades off 
the ground, BOSU, or bench. Return to the 
starting position and repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 10
Week 4 4 × 15
1b. DB isolation 
crunch rotation\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7947, 
F 05.03b, ID: 608271, here\Lie on your back on the ground or a 
bench, your knees bent and feet flat on 
the ground or bench. Assume a crunch 
position while holding a dumbbell in both 
hands in front of your core. Rotate from 
side to side.Week 1 2 × 10 per 
side
Week 2 2 × 15 per 
side
Week 3 3 × 10 per 
side
Week 4 4 × 15 per 
side
2a. DB single-arm 
overhead isometric 
press with lateral 
bend\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7949, 
F 05.03c, ID: 608272, here\Stand with one dumbbell in your right 
hand, your right arm extended overhead 
and your left palm placed on your side 
pocket. Keeping your right arm extended 
overhead at all times, laterally bend to 
your left, sliding your left hand down 
toward your left knee. Stop when you 
feel a good stretch on the right side of 
your core. Return to the starting position. 
Repeat for desired reps. Perform to the 
other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per 
side
Week 2 2 × 15 per 
side
Week 3 3 × 10 per 
side
Week 4 4 × 15 per 
side
HIS ABS AND CORE 3: DUMBBELL ABS
This 4-week program is a straight-up bodybuilding program for the abdominals. If you want big 
and strong abdominals, this is the one for you. This was one of the first workouts I did more than 
40 years ago; it was awesome then, and it’s awesome now. For added resistance, you can perform 
some of these exercises on declined benches or boards. Many people like to perform abdominal 
exercises on BOSU balls or other padded surfaces, and that’s fine too. But keep the surface you 
are working on as stable as possible so you can use as much weight as possible without dealing 
with balance issues, which take away from the work done. Perform the exercises as a superset.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice 
each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 3 and 
4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Bench, BOSU (optional), dumbbells or weight plate
Notes
You may use a declined abdominal bench to add difficulty to this workout.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.

57Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. DB single-arm 
side bend\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7952, 
F 05.03d, ID: 608273, here\Stand with your hands by your sides. Hold 
a dumbbell in your right hand. Laterally 
flex to your right, stretching the left core 
muscles. Return to the starting position 
and repeat for the desired reps. Perform to 
the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per 
side
Week 2 2 × 15 per 
side
Week 3 3 × 10 per 
side
Week 4 4 × 15 per 
side
3. DB reverse 
hyperextension 
(use end of bench)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7958, 
F 05.03e, ID: 608274, here\Lie facedown on a bench so your hips 
and lower body are off the bench. Place 
a dumbbell or medicine ball near your 
feet so you can place it between your 
feet when ready. Grab the dumbbell or 
medicine ball between your feet. Raise 
your feet and legs as high as possible, 
then lower short of touching the ground. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 10
Week 4 4 × 15
HIS ABS AND CORE 4: HANGING ABS
This 4-week program is an advanced bodyweight program that depends on grip strength because the 
body is suspended from your hands. To make this abdominal workout more demanding on your grip, 
perform exercises 1, 2, and 3 in a circuit fashion without regripping. Talk about an ab and forearm 
pump! To make this workout even more demanding for the grip, combat athletes not only do the 
first three exercise without rest but also use oversized grips (e.g., the clamps or lockdowns) instead 
of a normal bar. If you don’t want to be burdened with gripping issues and possible calluses, you 
can use suspension straps such as the JC Power Slings. Either way, suspending your body weight in 
midair with your hands or arms and performing these exercises requires strength, so this workout is 
not for beginners. Exercises should be performed as a superset or in succession.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice 
each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 3 and 4 are 
for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Pull-up bar, straps, 45-degree bench with footplate and thigh pads, weight plate or dumbbell, or power 
slings (optional)
Notes
If your grip allows, perform exercises 1, 2, and 3 as a circuit.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.
Table 5.4 His Abs and Core 4: Hanging Abs
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Hanging knee 
tuck\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8449, 
F 05.04a, ID: 608276, here\Hang from a pull-up bar with your palms 
facing out or with your upper arms in 
hanging straps. Raise your knees to your 
chest. Lower your legs to the starting 
position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 10
Week 4 4 × 15
(continued)

58Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2. Hanging side 
knee tuck\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8456, 
F 05.04b, ID: 608277, here\Hang from a pull-up bar with your palms 
facing out or with your upper arms in 
hanging straps. Rotate your lower body to 
the right, then bend your knees and raise 
your legs toward your chest. Lower your 
legs as you rotate back to the starting 
position. Repeat to the left side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
3. Hanging wind -
shield wiper\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8460, 
F 05.04c, ID: 608278, here\Hang from a pull-up bar with your palms 
facing out. Raise your straight legs until 
they are vertical to the ground. Rotate your 
lower body to the left, then to the right 
like a windshield wiper, without losing the 
vertical leg position. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 5 per side
Week 2 2 × 7 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 12 per side
4. 45-degree bench 
rotating hyperex -
tension (toes out) 
(may add weight to 
increase difficulty)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8412, 
F 05.04d, ID: 608279, here\Place your feet on the footplate of a 
45-degree bench, your toes pointing out 
and the thigh pads set on the thighs below 
your hip bone. Keeping your back straight, 
flex at the hips until you feel a comfortable 
stretch at your glutes and hamstrings. 
Extend your hips while rotating to the left 
and return to a flexed position. Repeat to 
the right side.Week 1 2 × 5 per side
Week 2 2 × 7 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 12 per side
HIS ABS AND CORE 5: BEYOND THE AB BLAST
This 6-week abdominal program is a heavy-duty version of the ab blast from Functional Train -
ing. I use this workout with many of my fighters to improve their guard game (i.e., fighting from 
their backs with an opponent between their legs). Our fighters have strong and great-looking abs 
because they follow a strict diet and because they do this kind of abdominal work. This advanced 
routine uses three exercises with a medicine ball. (Instead, you can use a stability ball.) We start 
by doing this workout resting between exercises. However, the goal is to go through all three 
exercises back-to-back without rest between each exercise in the circuit. This workout is also a 
great ab-shredding workout and will help you bring out the abdominals during a fat-burning phase.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice 
each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 4 to 6 
are for elite trainees only.Table 5.4 His Abs and Core 4: Hanging Abs (continued)

59Table 5.5 His Abs and Core 5: Beyond the Ab Blast
Exercise Photo Instructions
1. MB lying knee 
tuck\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7968, 
F 05.05a, ID: 608281, here\Sit on the ground and lean back on your elbows, 
placing a medicine ball between your knees (or 
between your feet for more difficulty). Elevate 
your feet just off the ground and slightly flex your 
knees, suspending the entire lower body off the 
ground. Perform a knee tuck and bring your knees 
and the medicine ball toward your chest. Return to 
the starting position without allowing your lower 
body to touch the ground. Repeat.
2. MB short crunch \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8478, 
F 05.05b, ID: 608282, here\Lie on the ground with your knees bent or 
extended and feet off the ground. Hold a medicine 
ball in your hands, your arms straight toward the 
ceiling. Push the medicine ball toward the ceiling, 
performing a crunch and lifting your shoulder 
blades off the ground. Return to the starting posi -
tion without allowing your lower body to touch the 
ground. Repeat.
3. MB ball 
exchange\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7980, 
F 05.05c, ID: 608283, here\Lie on the ground with your legs straight and 
a medicine ball in your hands right above your 
head. Simultaneously perform a crunch and a 
knee tuck (total-body crunch) and place the ball 
between your legs. Extend the body and repeat 
the total-body crunch, taking the medicine ball 
from between your legs and extending the body 
while bringing the medicine ball overhead. Repeat 
the ball exchange sequence. Every time the ball is 
overhead, you have completed a repetition.
Equipment
Medicine ball: Beginners, use a 2 to 3 lb (1 kg) medicine ball; intermediate athletes, use a 4-6 lb 
(2-3 kg) medicine ball; and advanced athletes, use a 7-10 lb (3-5 kg) medicine ball.
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 sets of 10 repetitions of each exercise, resting 1 to 2 min between 
exercises.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 3 sets of 15 repetitions of each exercise, resting 1 min between 
exercises.
Week 5: Superset the 3 exercises, performing each exercise for 5 to 7 repetitions, with no rest 
between exercises. Perform 2 supersets, resting 1 min between supersets.
Week 6: Superset the 3 exercises, performing each exercise for 10 to 12 repetitions, with no 
rest between exercises. Perform 3 supersets, resting 1 to 2 min between supersets.

60Table 5.6 Her Abs and Core 1: Floor Abs
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Superman
 Lie on your belly, your legs straight and 
your arms straight and extended over 
your head. Lift your legs and arms off the 
ground. Lower your legs and arms without 
touching the ground. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
1b. Lying side 
reach V-crunch 
(left)
Roll to your right side, stabilizing your 
body with your right arm and your right 
leg on the floor. Simultaneously lift your 
left leg and reach your left arm toward 
your left foot. Lower to the starting posi -
tion and repeat to other side.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
1c. V-up
 Roll to your back, your legs straight and 
arms straight and extended over your 
head. Simultaneously lift your legs and 
arms off the ground, reaching your hands 
toward your toes. Lower your legs and 
arms without touching the ground. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
1d. Lying side 
reach V-crunch 
(right)
Roll to your left side, stabilizing your body 
with your left arm and left leg on the floor. 
Simultaneously lift your right leg and 
reach with your right arm toward the right 
foot. Lower to the starting position and 
repeat to other side.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20HER ABS AND CORE 1: FLOOR ABS
This 4-week program is a quick abdominal training circuit that we used to call around the world 
because you start on your belly and roll from one position to the other. This workout is a quick 
circuit burn workout (although it can also be done in succession), making it an excellent choice 
when time is tight or as a home or travel workout. I love doing this workout on the bed when I 
travel; the soft mattress acts like sand, cushioning my body and making me work a lot harder. 
It’s also a great way to get a fast burn on the abs when you are done with another body part 
in the gym.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice 
each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 3 and 
4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
None
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 or 3 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.HER WORKOUTS

61Table 5.7 Her Abs and Core 2: Stability Ball Abs
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. SB knee tuck
 Assume a plank position, your hands on 
the floor and a stability ball under your 
thighs. Tuck your knees toward your chest, 
allowing the ball to roll down your legs 
until your knees are on top of the ball. 
Extend the body to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 1 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
1b. SB pike
 Assume a plank position, your hands on 
the floor and a stability ball under your 
thighs. Keeping your legs straight, flex 
your hips and perform a pike tuck, allow -
ing the ball to roll down your legs until 
your feet touch the ball. Extend your body 
to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × 5
Week 2 2 × 10
Week 3 3 × 10
Week 4 4 × 10
1c. SB short elbow 
roll-out pump
Assume a plank position, your elbows on 
a stability ball and your feet on the ground 
shoulder-width apart. Extend your arms 
and roll your elbows forward on the ball. 
Roll your elbows back to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat. Week 1 1 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
2a. SB hyperexten -
sion
Lie on a stability ball with the ball under 
your belly, your feet shoulder-width apart 
and your knees slightly bent. Cup your 
hands around your ears or cross your 
arms in front of your chest. Extend your 
spine until you feel a good contraction of 
your back muscles, then relax on the ball. 
Repeat.Week 1 1 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20HER ABS AND CORE 2: STABILITY BALL ABS
This 4-week program uses 2 circuits for the abs and lower back. Feel free to perform just the 
abdominal section if you are already doing plenty of posterior core work. This routine uses a 
stability ball and pikes; both are very demanding on balance, stability, and strength so this 
workout is for intermediate to advanced trainees. The abdominal circuit really targets the abs, 
from movement to stiffness: It does it all. The exercises flow from one to the other, allowing you 
to do the entire routine as one continuous circuit if you like to save time or add an additional 
fitness component.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice 
each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 3 and 
4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Stability ball: 22 in. (55 cm) ball if you are under 5 ft, 4 in. (1.6 m) tall; 26 in. (65 cm) ball if you 
are 5 ft, 4 in. (1.6 m) or taller
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 or 3 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.
(continued)

62HER ABS AND CORE 3: CRUNCH PLUS
This 4-week program uses two 2-exercise circuits and a finishing exercise for the anterior and 
posterior core. Some elements are similar to the Her Abs and Core 1 workout, but this workout 
increases the position difficulty. You can use medicine balls, dumbbells, and ankle weights to 
increase the difficulty level of this routine. With light dumbbells (2-5 lb [1-2 kg]), a medicine ball 
(2-5 lb [1-2 kg]), and ankle weights (2-5 lb [1-2 kg]), this workout is an absolute killer, so don’t 
be fooled by its simplicity.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice 
each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 3 and 
4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Medicine ball, dumbbells, ankle weights, flat or incline bench, sturdy structure for support
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 or 2 times per week.Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. SB reverse 
hyperextension*
Lie on a stability ball with the ball just 
below your belly button, your elbows on 
the floor for stability, your legs and feet 
together and your feet just off the floor. 
Extend your hips until your body is fully 
extended. Lower your feet to the starting 
position. Repeat. Week 1 1 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
* If your elbows can’t touch the floor on the reverse hyperextension, you can use your hands to support yourself.Table 5.7 Her Abs and Core 2: Stability Ball Abs (continued)
Table 5.8 Her Abs and Core 3: MB Crunch Plus
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Crunch (can 
use medicine 
ball and decline 
bench for added 
difficulty)
Lie on your back on the ground or a bench, 
your knees bent and your feet flat on 
the ground or bench. You can cup your 
hands over your ears, cross your arms 
across your chest, or hold a medicine ball 
overhead. Flex your core and bring your 
shoulder blades off the ground or bench. 
Return to the starting position and repeat.Week 1 1 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
1b. Reverse 
crunch (can place 
medicine ball 
between legs)
Lie on your back on the ground or a bench, 
your legs lifted in a vertical position. Hold 
on to a fixed structure above your head. 
Lift your hips off the ground toward the 
ceiling. Lower your hips to the starting 
position and repeat.Week 1 1 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20

63Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2a. X-up (can hold 
light dumbbells in 
hands)
Lie on your back, your arms and legs apart 
with your toes turned out, forming an X 
with your body. Keep your toes turned out 
during the entire exercise. Simultaneously 
lift your left arm and right leg until your 
left hand touches your right leg as close to 
your foot as possible. Repeat to the other 
side, alternating sides for prescribed reps.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
2b. Side crunch
 Lie on your right side with your knees 
flexed, cupping your hands over your ears. 
Laterally flex your core to perform a left 
crunch. Repeat for prescribed reps. Switch 
sides and perform to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
Finisher: cross 
crunch to contra -
lateral bird dog 
superset
(can hold light 
dumbbells in 
hands and wear 
ankle weights)
Assume a four-point position on your 
hands and knees. Extend your right arm 
and left leg simultaneously, then bring 
your right elbow and left knee together 
underneath you. Repeat for prescribed 
reps. Perform to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
HER ABS AND CORE 4: BAND AND PULLEY ABS
This 4-week band and pulley program consists of two 2-exercise circuits and a finishing exercise 
for the rotational muscles of the core. This workout uses the standing position, so it’s excellent 
for athletes, such as tennis players, who need a stable core while maintaining good posture in 
the standing position. Bands, especially the JC Santana line of bands, come in a variety of resis -
tances, and you can use them to tailor this workout to any difficulty needed, from novice to elite.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice 
each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 3 and 
4 are for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Band with handles (such as JC Traveler or Predator Jr.) or cable machine, sturdy structure or door 
(a band with handles is used in the workout description)
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 to 2 times per week.
Table 5.9 Her Abs and Core 4: Band and Pulley Abs
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. BP standing 
crunch
Attach a band to a high position, such as a 
pull-up bar or the top of a door. Facing the 
attachment point, hold the handles with 
your palms facing you. Crunch and bring 
your shoulders toward your hips. Return 
to the starting position and repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 3 × 20
Week 4 4 × 20
(continued)

64Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1b. BP standing 
single-arm cross 
crunch
Attach a band to a high position, such as a 
pull-up bar or the top of a door. Facing the 
attachment point, hold one handle in your 
left hand, your palm facing you. Crunch 
and rotate to the right, bringing your hand 
to the outside of your right knee. Return 
to the starting position and repeat for 
prescribed reps. Perform to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
2a. BP diagonal 
high-to-low chop
Attach a band to a stable structure such as 
a door as high as possible. Turn sideways 
so the anchor point is to your right, your 
feet wider than shoulder-width apart. Hold 
the handle in both hands high and to your 
right. Without moving your hips, move the 
handle diagonally from high right to low 
left. Return to the starting position and 
repeat for prescribed reps. Perform to the 
other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
2b. BP diagonal 
low-to-high chop
Attach a band to a stable structure such as 
a door as low as possible. Turn sideways 
so the anchor point is to your right, your 
feet wider than shoulder-width apart. Hold 
the handle in both hands low and to your 
right. Without moving your hips, move the 
handle diagonally from low right to high 
left. Return to the starting position and 
repeat for prescribed reps. Perform to the 
other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
Finisher: BP short 
rotation (10 to 2 
o’clock)
Attach a band at chest level to a stable 
structure such as a door. Turn sideways 
so the anchor point is to your right, your 
feet wider than shoulder-width apart. Hold 
the handle in both hands in front of you 
(hands at 12 o’clock). Without moving 
your hips, move the handle from shoulder 
to shoulder (from 10 to 2 o’clock). Perform 
the reps indicated, then turn so the anchor 
point is to your left side and repeat.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 20 per side
Week 4 4 × 20 per sideTable 5.9 Her Abs and Core 4: Band and Pulley Abs (continued)

65Table 5.10 Her Abs and Core 5: Heavy Abs
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks, sets, and reps
1a. Hanging knee tuck
 Hang from a pull-up bar with your 
palms facing out or with your upper 
arms in the hanging straps. You can 
use a power sling if you don’t want 
to use your grip to hold yourself 
up. Raise your knees to your chest. 
Lower your legs to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat.Weeks 1 and 2: Superset 
exercises 1a and 1b, 
performing each exer -
cise for 10 repetitions. 
Perform 2 supersets, 
resting 1 min between 
supersets.
Weeks 3 and 4: Superset 
exercises 1a and 1b,  
performing each 
exercise for 10 to 15 
repetitions. Perform 3 
or 4 supersets, resting 1 
min between supersets1b. Weighted rope crunch
 Kneel on a soft surface below a high 
pulley with a rope attachment. Hold 
the rope attachment so your hands 
are next to your head. With your hips 
stationary, contract your abs so that 
your elbows travel toward the middle 
of your thighs. Slowly return to the 
starting position. Repeat. 
2a. Incline bench reverse 
crunch 
Lie on your back on an incline bench 
and hold on to the top of the bench 
with both hands. Start with your 
low back on the bench and your legs 
straight. Move your legs toward your 
torso as you raise your hips off the 
bench. Lower your hips to the start -
ing position. Repeat.Weeks 1 and 2: Superset 
exercises 2a and 2b, 
performing each exer -
cise for 10 repetitions. 
Perform 2 supersets, 
resting 1 min between 
supersets.
Weeks 3 and 4: Superset 
exercises 2a and 
2b, performing each 
exercise for 10 to 15 
repetitions. Perform 3 
or 4 supersets, resting 1 
min between supersets.2b. Weighted crunch (use 
incline bench to make it more 
difficult)
Lie on your back on the ground or 
a bench, your knees bent. Hold one 
dumbbell in both hands across your 
chest. Flex your core and bring your 
shoulder blades off the ground or 
bench. Return to the starting position 
and repeat.HER ABS AND CORE 5: HEAVY ABS
This 4-week program is what trainer extraordinaire Cliff Edberg uses with his fitness and bodybuilding 
competitors. This routine uses two 2-exercise circuits to target the abdominal muscles only. This workout 
will build and strengthen your abdominals so they will be more visible as you reduce abdominal fat.
Depending on your natural capacity and training history, weeks 1 and 2 can be repeated twice 
each to reduce the volume and provide more time to adapt. The higher ranges of weeks 3 and 4 are 
for the advanced trainee.
Equipment
Pull-up bar with straps, cable machine with rope attachment, incline bench, dumbbells
Notes:
Combine these workouts with any of the posterior core (legs and hips) workouts from chapter 4 
for complete core training.
Exhale as you perform all abdominal movements.
Use a slow, controlled tempo so you keep constant tension on the abs throughout the movement.
Perform 2 times per week.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 66
Summary
I hope you enjoy the abdominal routines in this chapter. Using these routines, we 
have built champion athletes. IHP is known for its core training throughout the world. 
These routines and many more like them have helped develop that reputation. Work-
ing with these workouts, you can create workouts of your own as you mix and match 
your favorite exercises from this and other chapters. For a detailed discussion of the 
science and practice of program design and periodization, I refer you to my Functional 
Training book.

67
CHAPTER 6
Arms
This chapter really steps up with a wide array of arm routines that will surely 
give you the results you are looking for. I have designed functional workouts 
using bands, suspension equipment, and body weight. I also added dumbbell 
workouts that can be done at home. For quick burnouts or travel workouts, I included 
some band-only routines that will volumize and tone your arms quickly. Finally, for 
people who want to pack on serious muscle, I added some big hypertrophy workouts 
that use popular machines. In this chapter, we use everything from bands to cables, 
dumbbells to barbells, body weight to machines.
Each workout provides biceps and triceps work. However, if you want to work only 
one part of your arm, simply perform the exercises pertaining to that part of the arm 
only. Obviously, perform the entire workout if you want to train the biceps and triceps 
in the same workout.
I start with arm training that involves common functional training equipment. 
Then I proceed to more specialized workouts that use dumbbells, bands, or cables. 
The chapter finishes with some massive arm workouts that some of the pros I have 
trained and consulted with have used in the past.
Regardless of the workout you try, there are a couple of issues surrounding the 
development and sculpting of the arms that everyone should know so there are no 
unrealistic expectations. First, let’s tackle a topic that often makes its way into my 
email. Many people ask me if they can develop their arms (and other body parts for 
that matter) with bands as opposed to using free weight or machines. My answer is 
always the same: “Your muscles respond to tension and volume of work, not neces -
sarily what equipment you use.” So, if the right tension and volume are provided, the 
results will appear but within reason.
The reason for my last “within reason” statement is that there are some things that 
can’t be changed. One of the biggest questions I get is, “If I have a short muscle, such 
as a short biceps or triceps, is there an exercise I can do to lengthen it?” The answer 
is no. Personally, I have short biceps. When I started training in my early teens, I was 
told that a lot of preacher curls would lengthen them. I performed preacher curls for 
years, and nothing; I still have short biceps. You can see this effect in triceps, calves, 
quadriceps, and even hamstrings. Short muscles can be made bigger but not longer. 
The muscle length is set at birth, and no training will change it.
Of all body parts, the most visible are the arms and legs; the rest are usually covered 
with clothing. I would say the arms are the one body part everyone wants toned. Women 
want the back of the arms tight, and men usually want bigger arms. The way arms 
are supposed to look is very much a cultural phenomenon, and it’s also a very elastic 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 68
and changing preference. For this reason, you will see more hypertrophy workouts 
in the his  section, while the her  section has higher-volume toning workouts. As with 
the other workouts, all these workouts are interchangeable. This means if you are a 
male athlete and don’t want to put on muscle mass due to a weight restriction in your 
sport or your sport requires your arms to have more muscle endurance than size (e.g., 
boxing, wrestling), then try the more metabolic routines presented in the her  section. 
Likewise, if you are a smaller female who wants to put a little muscle on your arms, 
try the big hypertrophy workouts in the his  section. Remember, although men and 
women may want different things, muscles don’t have a sex: They are just muscles 
and respond to the frequency, volume, and intensity of training.
The usual recommendations for using these workouts apply. More than anything, 
train pain-free. Mix and match exercises from different workouts to tailor a workout 
to your specific likes, needs, and environment. For example, if you are like me and 
have bigger triceps than biceps, reduce or even eliminate the triceps work in any 
given workout. Also, experiment by changing the order of exercises. For example, if I 
provide a three-set workout, each with a biceps and triceps exercise, feel free to do all 
the biceps exercise together (even as a giant set), and then do all the triceps exercises 
separately as a giant set.
Finally, if you like one workout but feel the daily volume is too much for you (i.e., 
the soreness and tightness in your arms does not go away), then spread the work over 
three days or even cut the total volume to a volume you feel allows you to recover. 
I have found that many clients in their 40s, 50s, and 60s can do the volume of work 
indicated if they spread the work over three or four workouts over the week. This 
even means doing back-to-back workouts on consecutive days. At the end of the day, 
staying pain-free is the name of the game, and anything that helps with that is on the 
table for consideration.
Note: As a base, although progressions for beginners and advanced trainees are 
provided in each workout, I strongly recommend that anyone who has been sedentary 
for three to four weeks finish the two-week program here before attempting any of 
the other workouts in this chapter.
WEEK 1: DO EACH EXERCISE SEPARATELY
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
EZ bar reverse curl (1-2 sets × 10-15 repetitions): Stand and hold an EZ-bar, your 
palms facing your body shoulder-width apart. Keeping your upper arms station -
ary, curl the EZ-bar, flexing at your elbows. Once the elbows are at full flexion, 
slowly lower the EZ-bar by extending your elbows. Repeat.
BP triceps extension (1-2 sets × 10-15 repetitions): Attach a band such as a JC Traveler 
to a high position such as a pull-up bar or the top of a door. You may also use a 
high cable with a small bar or rope attachment. Stand with feet shoulder-width 
apart. Grasp the handles or the bar in a pronated grip (palms down) and flex your 
elbows. Keeping the elbows close to the body, extend the elbows until the arms 
are straight. Flex the elbows to return to the starting position. Repeat.
WEEK 2: DO EACH EXERCISE SEPARATELY
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
DB bent-over triceps extension (2-3 sets × 8-12 repetition): Hold a dumbbell in each 
hand, your palms facing your torso. Bend your knees slightly and bring your 
torso forward by bending at the hips. Keep your back flat and your head up. 
Keeping your upper arms parallel to the ground and close to your body, extend 

69 Arms
Table 6.1 His Arms 1: Functional Arms
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Chin-up (use 
bands for assis -
tance or weights 
for additional 
loading) 
Hang with both arms extended from a 
pull-up bar with your palms facing you 
(supinated grip) and your hands shoulder-
width apart. Pull your body up until the bar 
is at the collarbone. Lower your body to 
the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. Suspension 
recline curl Hold each handle of a suspension system, 
your palms facing up (supinated grip). 
Recline with your arms and body fully 
extended. Flex your elbows and curl the 
handles toward your shoulders. Extend 
your elbows to the starting position. 
Repeat. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12HIS WORKOUTSboth elbows until your arms are straight and horizontal to the ground. Flex your 
elbows, bringing the dumbbells back to the starting position. Repeat.
DB biceps curl (2-3 sets × 8-12 repetition): Stand and hold a dumbbell in each hand 
at arm’s length, your elbows close to your body and your palms turned to the 
front. Flex both elbows, curling the dumbbells toward your shoulders. Extend 
your elbows, lowering the dumbbells. Repeat.
HIS ARMS 1: FUNCTIONAL ARMS
This 4-week program is a functional training workout for the arms that uses two 3-exercise 
circuits for maximum training efficiency. However, feel free to rearrange the exercises, such as 
1a and 2a, 1b and 2b, and 3a and 3b. This is a perfect workout for people who are interested in 
getting a considerable amount of core training while also focusing on their arms. If rearranged, 
this workout can make a great boot camp circuit focusing on the entire upper body; it has plenty 
of chest and back work in it. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 
4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base 
(2 or more years of serious weight training).
Equipment
Pull-up bar, weights, suspension system, superband, parallel bars, medicine ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced only).
(continued)


70Table 6.1 His Arms 1: Functional Arms (continued)
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1c. Superband 3D 
60 reverse curl
Step into and on the Superband, your feet 
hip-width apart. Hold the Superband in 
a neutral hammer position (palms facing 
in), your arms extended. Flex your elbows 
to 90 degrees for the specified reps. Then 
flex your elbows from 90 degrees to full 
flexion for the specified reps. Finally, 
perform full biceps curls for the specified 
number of reps. Week 1 2 × 10 + 10 + 10
Week 2 3 × 15 + 15 + 15
Week 3 4 × 20 + 20 + 20
Week 4 5 × 20 + 20 + 20
2a. Dip (use bands 
for assistance or 
weights for addi -
tional loading)
Balance on the parallel bars, your arms 
and body fully extended. Flex your elbows 
to lower your body as far as your range 
of motion permits and lean forward to 
accommodate range of motion, or until 
your elbows are bent 90 degrees. Extend 
your elbows to push yourself up to the 
starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2b. Suspension 
triceps extension
Hold the handles of a suspension system, 
arms overhead, facing down, your arms 
and body fully extended. Flex your elbows 
until your hands are behind your head and 
your elbows are next to your ears. Extend 
your elbows to push your body back to the 
extended starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2c. MB hands-on-
ball push-up
Assume a push-up (plank) position on 
a medicine ball with both hands on the 
ball, your arms and body fully extended. 
Flex your elbows to lower your body until 
your elbows are fully flexed (ball is near or 
touching the chest). Extend your elbows to 
push your body up to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × failure
Week 2 2 × failure
Week 3 4 × failure
Week 4 5 × failure

71Table 6.2 His Arms 2: Superband Meta Arms
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Superband 
standing speed 
curl
Step on a Superband with your feet shoul -
der-width apart. Hold the ends of the band 
in a neutral (hammer) grip. Your knees 
should be slightly flexed, your hands 
resting on your thighs and your back 
straight. Perform a speed curl using only 
your elbows, then lower your hands until 
they touch the tops of your thighs. Repeat. 
The speed curls should be performed at a 
tempo of about 2 repetitions per second.Week 1 2 × 30 in 15 sec
Week 2 3 × 40 in 20 sec
Week 3 4 × 50 in 25 sec
Week 4 5 × 60 in 30 sec
1b. Superband 
speed triceps 
extension
Loop a Superband over a high bar and 
hold the ends in a neutral (hammer) grip. 
Your knees should be slightly flexed, your 
back straight, and your elbows flexed. 
Extend your elbows until your arms are 
fully extended and your hands touch your 
thighs, then flex your elbows to return to 
the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 30 in 15 sec
Week 2 3 × 40 in 20 sec
Week 3 4 × 50 in 25 sec
Week 4 5 × 60 in 30 secHIS ARMS 2: SUPERBAND META ARMS
This 4-week program is a metabolic band-only workout that I have been using for more than 20 
years now. You can use this program when traveling to get a quick arm pump or toning workout 
or as a finisher to volumize your arms. This workout is also good for athletes who need muscle 
endurance in their sports, like combat athletes. Each exercise can be used individually if you are 
interested in training only one aspect of your arms or you can superset 1a and 1b as indicated. 
Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only 
by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base (2 or more years of serious 
weight training).
Equipment
Superband (1 in.)
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced only).

72HIS ARMS 3: DB ARM BLAST
This 4-week program is a specialized dumbbell-only workout for the arms, arranged in three 
2-exercise circuits for training efficiency. However, feel free to rearrange the exercises; for 
example, you could perform giant sets of 1a, 2a, and 3a; 1b, 2b, and 3b; and 1c, 2c, and 3c. 
This is a perfect workout for people who want to do a specialized workout at home using just 
dumbbells. Similar workouts have been used by bodybuilding competitors, so don’t think just 
because it uses only dumbbells that this workout is not top-notch. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough 
for most people. Week 3 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals, and week 4 
is strictly for the pros. Week 4 provides 30 weekly sets for the arms; anybody will tell you that 
is professional-grade volume.
Equipment
Bench, dumbbells
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced only).
Table 6.3 His Arms 3: DB Arm Blast
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. DB lying 
triceps extension 
(hammer-grip 
skull-crusher)Lie on your back on the bench, your knees 
bent and feet flat on the ground. Hold 
a dumbbell in each hand and keep your 
elbows in. Extend at your elbows, lifting 
the dumbbells toward the ceiling. Lower 
the dumbbells, flexing at your elbows, until 
they are right above your head. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. DB standing 
hammer curl
Stand and hold a dumbbell in each hand at 
arm’s length. Your elbows should be close 
to your body. Flex the left arm, curling the 
dumbbell toward your shoulder. Lower the 
left dumbbell. Repeat for prescribed reps, 
then switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per arm
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm
Week 4 5 × 8 per arm
2a. DB double-arm 
overhead triceps 
extensionStand and hold a dumbbell in each hand. 
Extend your arms over your head. Your 
palms should face each other with your 
thumbs around the handles. Keeping 
your elbows in and upper arms vertical, 
flex your elbows, lowering the dumbbells 
behind you. Extend your elbows, pushing 
the dumbbells back up toward the ceiling. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8


73Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. DB single-arm 
seated concentra -
tion curl
Sit on a flat bench with your knees bent 
and your feet flat on floor. Hold a dumb -
bell in your right hand and place the back 
of the upper arm against your inner thigh. 
With your palm facing away from your 
right thigh, flex at your right elbow, curling 
the dumbbell. Slowly extend your right 
elbow, lowering the dumbbell. Repeat for 
prescribed reps, then switch to the other 
arm.Week 1 2 × 10 per arm
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm
Week 4 5 × 8 per arm
3a. DB bent-over 
triceps extension 
Hold a dumbbell in each hand, your palms 
facing your torso. Bend your knees slightly 
and flex at the hips until your torso is 
almost parallel to ground. Keep your back 
flat and your head up. Keeping your upper 
arms parallel to the ground and close to 
your body, extend both elbows until your 
arms are straight and horizontal to the 
ground. Flex your elbows, bringing the 
dumbbells back to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
3b. DB alternating 
Zottman curl
Stand holding a dumbbell in each hand, 
your arms close to your body and your 
palms facing away from your body. Flex 
your right elbow to curl the dumbbell. When 
your right elbow is fully flexed, rotate the 
dumbbell (pronate hand) and extend your 
right elbow to lower the dumbbell while 
initiating a curl with your left hand. Your 
right arm should be fully extended at the 
same time your left is fully flexed. Rotate 
the left dumbbell inward (pronate hand) 
while rotating the right dumbbell outward 
(supinating hand). Repeat, alternating the 
curl and rotating pattern.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
HIS ARMS 4: ARMS ON A ROPE
This 4-week program is a specialized cable-only workout for the arms using a rope attachment. 
You can also modify this workout to use a set of bands, such as the JC Traveler or Predator Jr. 
This workout is arranged in three 2-exercise circuits that use an agonist–antagonist format for an 
intense volumizing effect. However, feel free to rearrange the exercises in another order, such as 
separate sets of 1a, 2a, and 3a; 1b, 2b, and 3b. Whether you use a cable and rope attachment 
or just use a set of bands, this workout provides a ton of volume and has been used by physique 
competitors to get in contest shape. Feel free to combine exercises from this workout and work -
out 5. The combination of the equipment used in both workouts offers unlimited possibilities 
for excellent arm training. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people. Week 3 should be 
attempted only by more advanced individuals, and week 4 is strictly for the pros.
Equipment
Double cable machine or bands, rope attachment, handle attachment (optional), dumbbells
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced only).

74Table 6.4 His Arms 4: Arms on a Rope
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Cable rope 
triceps push-down
Attach a rope attachment to a high pulley. 
Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. 
Grasp the rope in a neutral grip (palms in) 
and flex your elbows. Keeping your elbows 
close to the body, extend them until your 
arms are straight. Flex your elbows and 
return to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. Cable rope curl 
with neutral grip
Attach a rope attachment to a low pulley. 
Grasp the rope with both hands in a neu -
tral (palms in) grip. Keeping your elbows 
tucked in and upper arms stabilized, flex 
your elbows to curl the rope up as far 
as possible. Once your elbows are fully 
flexed, slowly lower the rope back down. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2a. Cable single-
arm bent-over 
triceps extension
Attach a rope attachment to a low pulley. 
Grasp both ends with your right hand 
using a neutral (palms in) grip. Facing 
the anchor point, bend over while keep -
ing your right elbow tucked, upper arms 
stabilized and parallel to the ground, and 
right elbow fully flexed. Extend your right 
elbow until your right arm is fully extended 
and parallel to the ground. Once your right 
elbow is fully flexed, slowly lower the rope 
back to the starting position. Complete 
repetitions with your right arm then repeat 
with the left side.Week 1 2 × 15 per arm
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm
Week 4 5 × 8 per arm
2b. Cable single-
arm rear pull curl
Attach a handle to a low pulley. Facing 
away from the machine, grasp the handle 
behind your back with one hand, your 
palm facing forward. Keeping the arm 
angled back toward the cable, flex your 
elbow and curl the handle up toward the 
shoulders. Extend your elbow, slowly 
lowering the handle. Repeat for prescribed 
repetitions, then switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 8 per arm 
3a. Cable stag -
gered stance for -
ward rope triceps 
extension
Attach a rope attachment to a pulley 
position at eye level. Grasp the rope with 
a neutral grip, turn away from the pulley, 
and assume a staggered stance. Start 
with your elbows fully flexed and pointing 
straight ahead. Keeping your upper arms 
stabilized, extend your elbows until both 
arms are fully extended. Slowly flex your 
elbows to allow the rope to go backward to 
starting position. Repeat for the pre -
scribed number of repetitions. Switch the 
position of your feet and repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8

75Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
3b. Cable double-
arm high curl
Stand between 2 high pulleys. Hold a 
handle in each hand. Make sure your arms 
are extended and parallel to the floor 
with your palms to the ceiling. Curl the 
cable toward your ears while flexing your 
elbows, keeping your upper arms stabi -
lized. Slowly extend your elbows, lowering 
the cable. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
HIS ARMS 5: BIG PAPA PUMP ARMS
This 4-week program is a professional bodybuilder arm routine. Similar routines have been used 
by the top bodybuilders competing at the Olympia. It is arranged into two 3-exercise groups. 
However, if you want to work fast and volumize your arms to the max, rearrange the order and 
perform one biceps exercise immediately followed by a triceps exercise. For example, perform 
supersets of 1a and 2a; 1b and 2b; 1c and 3c. Also, consider combining exercises from this workout 
and workout 4; the combination of cables, ropes, dumbbells, and barbells delivers the optimal 
training environment for blasting the arms. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people. Week 
3 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals, and week 4 is strictly for the pros.
Equipment
EZ-bar, weight plates, dumbbells, incline bench, parallel bars, bench, cable machine or bands, 
handle attachment
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced only).
Table 6.5 His Arms 5: Big Papa Pump Arms
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. EZ-bar reverse 
curl
Stand and hold an EZ-bar, your palms 
facing your body and shoulder-width 
apart. Keeping your upper arms sta -
tionary, curl the EZ-bar, flexing at your 
elbows. Once the EZ-bar is at full flexion, 
slowly lower the EZ-bar by extending your 
elbows. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8 
1b. DB single-arm 
cross hammer curl
Stand holding a dumbbell in each hand, 
your palms facing your body. Keeping 
your palms in, curl the right dumbbell up 
toward your left chest, close to your torso. 
Once the dumbbell reaches your left chest, 
slowly lower the dumbbell, extending your 
elbow. Repeat, bringing the left dumbbell 
to your right chest.Week 1 2 × 5 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 8 per arm 
(continued)

76Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1c. DB incline 
bench curl
Sit back on an incline bench, your feet flat 
on the floor. Hold a dumbbell in each hand. 
Let your arms by your sides with your 
palms facing forward. Keeping your upper 
arms stationary, curl both dumbbells by 
flexing your elbows. Slowly lower the 
dumbbells by extending your elbows to the 
starting point. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 5
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2a. Dip (upright 
on parallel bars or 
bench)
Stand between parallel bars and place a 
hand on each bar. Start with your arms 
extended and your body upright. Lower 
your body by flexing your elbows until they 
reach 90 degrees. Return to the extended 
position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10-12
Week 2 3 × 8-10
Week 3 4 × 6-8
Week 4 5 × 8
2b. DB lying 
crossover triceps 
extension
Lie on a bench and hold a dumbbell in 
your left hand with your arm extended. 
Keeping your left arm stabilized and elbow 
pointed to the ceiling, flex your left elbow 
and bring the dumbbell across the body 
to the right side of your head. Extend your 
left arm to the starting position. Repeat 
for prescribed repetitions on your left arm, 
then repeat with your right side.Week 1 2 × 15 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 8 per arm 
2c. Cable  
bent-over triceps 
extensionAttach a handle to a low pulley. Stand with 
the pulley to your left side. Hold the handle 
in your right hand, and your palm facing 
the pulley. Bend your knees slightly. Bend 
at the waist to bring your torso forward. 
Make sure your back is straight and paral -
lel to the floor. Keeping your right upper 
arm stabilized, fully extend your right 
elbow until your right arm is parallel to the 
floor, your palm facing the floor. Slowly 
bring your right elbow to a fully flexed 
position. Repeat for prescribed repetitions 
on your right arm, then switch to the left.Week 1 2 × 5 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 8 per arm Table 6.5 His Arms 5: Big Papa Pump Arms (continued)


77HER ARMS 1: FUNCTIONAL TONING
This 4-week program is a specialized functional workout for the arms but with a bodybuilding 
format. It is arranged in three 2-exercise supercircuits that target the biceps and triceps in a 
superset fashion. This volumizing format will bring excellent blood flow to the entire arm, while 
giving you the benefits of functional training. Feel free to combine this functional workout with 
the more traditional workouts offered later in this chapter. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for 
most people. Weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals (2 or more 
years of serious weight training).
Equipment
Suspension system, barbell, bench, cable machine, handle attachment, bands (such as the JC 
Traveler or Predator Jr.), medicine ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week.
Table 6.6 Her Arms 1: Functional Toning
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Reclined curl 
(use suspension 
equipment or 
barbell)
Place barbell or suspension handles 
between your chest and belly button. Hold 
the bar or handles with extended arms, 
your hands shoulder-width apart and your 
palms facing up. Recline so your body 
is straight and at an angle. Return to the 
starting position. Flex your elbows and 
curl your body up until your elbows are 
fully flexed. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8-12
1b. Bench dip
 Sit on the edge of a bench and place your 
hands on each side of you on the bench. 
Walk your legs out until your hips are off 
the bench. Flex your elbows to lower your 
body (dip). Extend your elbows to return to 
the starting position. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8-12
2a. BP single-arm 
side curl 
Position a band or pulley at about shoulder 
height. Hold the handle in your right hand. 
Turn sideways so the band is to your right 
side. Extend your right arm to point to 
the anchor point, keeping your right palm 
turned up. Perform an arm curl with your 
right arm. Return to the starting position 
and repeat for prescribed repetitions. Turn 
around, switch to your left arm, and repeat 
the curl motion.Week 1 2 × 15 per arm
Week 2 3 × 20 per arm
Week 3 4 × 15 per arm
Week 4 5 × 15 per armHER WORKOUTS
(continued)

78Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. MB crossover 
push-up
Assume a plank position with a hard medi -
cine ball under your right hand. Perform 
a push-up, then bring your left hand to 
the ball after placing your right hand on 
the floor to the right. Perform a push-up. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 4 per side
Week 2 3 × 6 per side
Week 3 4 × 8 per side
Week 4 5 × 8-10 per 
side
3a. Band hammer 
curl
Attach a resistance band to a low position 
or step on the nylon strap to secure it 
under your right foot. Stand with your feet 
staggered and shoulder-width apart and 
hold one end of the band in each hand, 
your palms facing each other (hammer 
grip). Without moving your upper arms, 
flex your elbows and curl the band toward 
your shoulders. Extend your arms to the 
starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 3 × 20 + 2 to 
failure
3b. Band bent-over 
triceps extension
Attach a resistance band to a secure object 
at about chest level. Hold the handles and 
stand with your feet shoulder-width apart 
while flexing at the hips to assume a bent-
over position. Keep your torso bent over 
and your back flat, your elbows flexed as 
much as possible. Extend your elbows so 
they are in line with your torso and parallel 
to the ground. Flex your elbows to return 
to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 3 × 20 + 2 to 
failure
HER ARMS 2: META ARM SCULPTING
This 4-week program is similar to the his  metabolic band-only workout, and you can follow the 
same recommendations outlined there. This workout isolates the arms a bit more than the his  
workout due to the challenge and support offered by the stability ball (i.e., using it as a preacher 
curl bench and as a body stabilizer). Additionally, you can superset the biceps and triceps exer -
cises by simply changing body position on the stability ball. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for 
most people. Weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have 
a considerable training base (2 or more years of serious weight training).
Equipment
Stability ball, Superband or JC Traveler or sports band
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced only).Table 6.6 Her Arms 1: Functional Toning (continued)

79Table 6.7 Her Arms 2: Meta Arm Sculpting
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. SB band speed 
preacher curl
Anchor a band to a low position, about a 
foot (30 cm) off the ground. Facing the 
band and at a distance that provides the 
right amount of resistance, kneel on the 
floor and place a stability ball between you 
and the band. Using the ball as a preacher 
curl bench, place your upper arms on 
the stability ball and hold the bands with 
your arms extended and palms facing up. 
Perform simultaneous arm curls.Week 1 2 × 30 in 15 sec
Week 2 3 × 40 in 20 sec
Week 3 4 × 50 in 25 sec
Week 4 5 × 50 in 30 sec
1b. SB band lying 
prone speed tri -
ceps extension
Anchor a band to a low position, about a 
foot (30 cm) off the ground. Facing the 
band and at a distance that provides the 
right amount of resistance, position a 
stability ball under your core so your body 
is parallel to the ground. You may balance 
on your feet or go to your knees for added 
stability. Place your extended arms by your 
sides with your palms facing the ceiling. 
Flex your elbows and extend them to per -
form a triceps extension while supporting 
your torso on the stability ball. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 30 in 15 sec
Week 2 3 × 40 in 20 sec
Week 3 4 × 50 in 25 sec
Week 4 5 × 60 in 30 sec
HER ARMS 3: DB ARM SHAPING
This 4-week program is a dumbbell-only workout. For this reason, it is perfect for home training 
or the gym. It is arranged in an agonist–antagonist format consisting of three 2-exercise circuits 
for training efficiency and maximum volumizing of the arms. If you want to spend more time 
on arm training, rest more between sets and use greater loads. Consider rearranging the order 
of the exercises so that all biceps training is done in succession, followed by all triceps training in 
succession. For example, you can perform the routine in this order: 1a, 2a, and 3a; 1b, 2b, and 
3b; 1c, 2c, and 3c.  You can also add the biceps portion to a back day and the triceps portion to 
a chest day to save time and train more efficiently. Don’t let the dumbbell format fool you; this 
is serious training, providing 30 sets for the arms in a week. That is serious volume and not for 
beginners. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people. Week 3 should be attempted only 
by more advanced individuals, and week 4 is strictly for the pros.
Equipment
Adjustable bench, dumbbells
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced only).
Table 6.8 Her Arms 3: DB Arm Shaping
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. DB lying 
double-arm triceps 
extension
Lie on a flat bench, your knees bent 
and your feet flat on the ground. Hold 
dumbbells in both hands, your arms fully 
extended and pointing to the ceiling. Flex 
your elbows and lower the dumbbells 
behind your head. Extend your elbows to 
return to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 12
(continued)

80Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1b. DB simultane -
ous curl
Stand straight, feet together, dumbbells by 
your sides with your palms facing forward. 
Flex your elbows to curl the dumbbells up 
until your elbows are fully flexed. Slowly 
extend your elbows to return to the start -
ing position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 20
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 12
2a. DB overhead 
single-arm triceps 
extension
Stand straight, your feet together. Hold a 
dumbbell in your right hand. Fully extend 
your right arm and point it to the ceil -
ing. Flex your right elbow to lower the 
dumbbell behind your head until your right 
elbow is fully flexed. Slowly extend your 
elbow to return to the starting position. 
Repeat for prescribed repetitions with your 
right arm, then switch to your left arm.Week 1 2 × 15 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 15 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 12 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 12 per arm 
2b. DB standing 
alternating cross 
hammer curl
Stand straight and hold a dumbbell in 
each hand, your palms facing the body. 
Flex your right elbow to curl the dumb -
bell toward your left chest until your right 
elbow is fully flexed. As you extend your 
right elbow and lower the dumbbell, flex 
your left elbow to curl the dumbbell toward 
your right chest. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15 per arm
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm
Week 4 5 × 10 per arm
3a. DB single-arm 
bent-over triceps 
extension
Hold a dumbbell in your right hand, your 
palm facing your torso. Bend your knees 
slightly and bring your torso forward by 
bending at the waist. Keep your back flat 
and head up. You may use your left arm to 
stabilize your body by placing your hand 
on your thigh or a bench. Keeping your 
right upper arm parallel to the ground and 
close to your body, flex your right elbow 
so your forearm is perpendicular to the 
ground. Extend your right elbow until your 
right arm is straight and horizontal to the 
ground. Flex your right elbow to return to 
the starting position. Repeat for pre -
scribed repetitions on your right arm, then 
switch to your left arm.Week 1 2 × 15 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 15 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 12 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 12 per arm 
3b. DB incline 
bench alternating 
curl
Sit back on an incline bench, your feet flat 
on the floor. Hold a dumbbell in each hand 
with your arms hanging down and your 
palms facing forward. Keeping your upper 
arm stationary, flex your right elbow and 
curl the dumbbell until your elbow is fully 
flexed. As you extend your elbow to bring 
the right dumbbell back to the starting 
position, flex your left elbow to curl the left 
dumbbell. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 12 per arm
Week 2 3 × 15 per arm
Week 3 4 × 12 per arm
Week 4 5 × 10 per armTable 6.8 Her Arms 3: DB Arm Shaping (continued)

81HER ARMS 4: CABLE TIGHT ARMS
This 4-week program is a cable and band workout for the arms. You can use various handles 
and accessories, such as ropes, V-bars, straight bars, and EZ-bars to give the muscles a different 
angle of work during the cable exercises. Feel free to experiment with the cable exercises. It is 
arranged in three 2-exercise circuits for training efficiency. You can also consider rearranging 
this routine by performing giant sets for each body part, such as 1a, 2a, and 3a; 1b, 2b, and 3b; 
1c, 2c, and 3c. This giant set approach is advanced work and only for those training at a very 
high level. Exercises from this workout can be mixed with the previous dumbbell-only workout 
to create very efficient and comprehensive arm training routines. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough 
for most people. Week 3 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals (2 or more 
years of serious weight training), and week 4 is strictly for the pros.
Equipment
Cable machine or bands, rope attachment, handle attachment, bench, stability ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced only).
Table 6.9 Her Arms 4: Cable Tight Arm
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Cable lying 
rope triceps  
extension 
(hammer grip)
Attach a rope to a low pulley about 2 ft off 
the ground. Lie on a flat bench facing away 
from the pulley, your knees bent and your 
feet flat on the ground. Hold the ends of the 
rope attachment in both hands, your arms 
fully extended and pointing to the ceiling. 
Flex your elbows to lower the rope ends 
behind your head. Extend your elbows to 
return to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 20
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 12
1b. SB rope 
preacher curl
Place a stability ball between you and a 
low pulley with a rope attachment at the 
end of it. Holding the rope ends in a neu -
tral grip, kneel and lay your chest over the 
ball, resting your upper arms on the ball. 
Flex your elbows and curl the rope until 
your elbows are fully flexed. Extend your 
elbows to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 20
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 12
2a. Cable single-
arm overhead 
triceps extension
Hold a handle attached to a low pulley in 
your right hand. Face away from the pulley 
and extend your right arm so it is pointing 
toward the ceiling, your palm facing away 
from the pulley. Flex your right elbow to 
lower the handle until your arm is fully 
flexed. Extend your right arm to the 
starting position. Repeat for prescribed 
repetitions on your right arm, then switch 
to the left.Week 1 2 × 10 per arm
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm
Week 4 5 × 12 per arm
(continued)

82Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. Cable single-
arm high curl
Stand facing the pulley with a handle 
attachment set at about eye level. Hold 
the handle in your left hand, your arm fully 
extended, parallel to the ground. Your 
palm should be facing up. Flex your left 
elbow to bring the handle toward your 
head until the left elbow is fully flexed. 
Extend your left elbow to return to the 
starting position. Repeat for prescribed 
repetitions on your left arm, then switch to 
the right .Week 1 2 × 15 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 15 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 12 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 12 per arm 
3a. Cable single-
arm supinated 
triceps extension
Stand in front of a high pulley with a 
handle attachment. Hold the handle 
with your right hand and your arm fully 
extended and perpendicular to the ground, 
your palm facing the pulley. Flex your 
elbow until it is fully flexed. Extend your 
elbow to return to the starting position. 
Repeat for prescribed repetitions with your 
right arm, then switch to your left arm.Week 1 2 × 10 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 12 per arm 
3b. Cable single-
arm rear pull curl 
Stand with your back to a low cable pulley. 
Hold the handle in your right hand, your 
palm facing the front. Keep your arm 
straight behind your body and hold your 
upper arm still while you flex your elbow 
to curl the handle toward your shoulder. 
Slowly extend your arm to return to the 
starting position. Repeat for prescribed 
repetitions on your right arm, then switch 
to the left.Week 1 2 × 10 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 12 per arm Table 6.9 Her Arms 4: Cable Tight Arm (continued)
HER ARMS 5: PROFESSIONAL PHYSIQUE ARMS
This 4-week program is one of our professional fitness competitor routines for the arms. It is 
arranged in three 2-exercise circuits for training efficiency. Believe it or not, this is a very similar 
routine to ones I learned in the 1970s from my professional bodybuilding friends, such as Mr. 
America, Jorge Navarrete, and Mr. Southeastern U.S., George Prince. Since then, many of our 
professional fitness competitors, ladies and men, have used this workout. Like some of the other 
workouts, it is arranged in an agonist–antagonist format to volumize the arms quickly. But you 
can also rearrange this workout to blast the biceps or triceps independently, such as performing 
giants sets of 1a, 2a, and 3a; 1b, 2b, and 3b; 1c, 2c, and 3c. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for 
most people. Week 3 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals (2 or more years 
of serious weight training), and week 4 is strictly for the pros.
Equipment
EZ-bar, dumbbells, cable machine or bands, handle attachment, rope attachment, adjustable 
weight bench, barbell
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced only).

83Table 6.10 Her Arms 5: Professional Physique Arms
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. EZ-bar curl
 Hold an EZ curl bar with your hands about 
shoulder-width apart, your palms facing 
away from your body (supinated grip). 
Keeping your elbows tucked and upper 
arms stable, flex your elbows to curl the 
bar up until they are fully flexed. Extend 
your elbows to return to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 20
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 12
1b. DB alternating 
Zottman curl
Stand upright and hold a dumbbell in each 
hand. Keep your arms close to the body, 
your palms facing your body. Curl the left 
dumbbell while rotating your palm so it’s 
facing the ceiling (supinated) when the 
dumbbell gets to shoulder level. As you 
lower the dumbbell, rotate your palm so 
it faces the floor (pronated) as the arm 
extends. Repeat with the other arm.Week 1 2 × 10 per arm
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm
Week 4 5 × 12 per arm
1c. Cable single-
arm bent-over 
lateral biceps curl 
Attach a handle to a low pulley. Stand with 
the pulley to your right and the handle 
in your right hand using a pronated grip 
(palms turned down). Bend your knees 
slightly and bend at the waist to bring your 
torso forward and parallel to the ground. 
Keeping your right upper arm stable, flex 
your elbow and curl the handle in toward 
your chest. Slowly fully extend your elbow. 
Repeat for prescribed repetitions on your 
right arm, then switch to your left arm.Week 1 2 × 15 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 12 per arm 
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm 
Week 4 5 × 12 per arm 
2a. EZ-bar lying 
triceps extension 
Using a pronated grip (palms turned down), 
grab the EZ-bar at the inner handles and lie 
on a flat bench. Extend your arms in front 
of you so that they are perpendicular to the 
floor. Keeping your upper arms stable, bend 
at your elbows to lower the weight toward 
your forehead. Use your triceps to return 
the weight to the starting position. Repeat 
for prescribed reps.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12
2b. Cable incline 
bench rope triceps 
extension
Lie on an incline bench facing away from a 
pulley with a high rope attachment. Grasp 
the rope and keep your elbows tucked 
to your sides. Keeping your upper arms 
stable, pull the rope forward until your 
arms are fully extended. Slowly return to 
the starting position. Repeat for prescribed 
reps.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12
2c. Close-grip  
barbell bench 
press
Lie on a flat bench. Grab the barbell with 
a close grip, your hands a little inside 
shoulder-width. Slowly lower the barbell 
toward the middle of your chest, keeping 
your elbows close to your body. Press 
the bar back up to the starting position. 
Repeat. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12

JC’s Total Body Transformation 84
BONUS WORKOUT:  21S ARM SALUTE
Here is the famous 21-rep arm burnout. This is more of a protocol and a strategy than it is a 
workout. Many of you have heard about it because it has stood the test of time. The 21-rep 
protocol begins with 7 partial repetitions from the starting position to the halfway point of the 
complete contraction. Next, you perform 7 partial repetitions from the halfway point to the 
end point of the full contraction. Finally, the protocol ends with 7 full contractions, spanning 
the complete range of motion. The concept of combining partial repetitions that cover various 
ranges of an exercise to create a huge metabolic demand and mechanical load is as old as lifting 
itself. We now use different repetition schemes and combine a wide array of ranges to create 
killer protocols. However, all our new protocols that involve partials were born out of the 21-rep 
protocol I learned in the early 1970s, and it was not new then by any stretch!
Here are some exercises you can use with the 21-rep protocol. Obviously, the biceps curl with 
a barbell or dumbbells is the most popular, but any other exercise can be done using the 21-rep 
protocol.
BICEPS CURL 21S
Perform the biceps curl while standing or sitting, using a barbell, dumbbells, or cables.
1. Perform 7 curls, from arms extended to 90 degrees of elbow flexion.
2. Perform 7 curls, from 90 degrees of elbow flexion to full flexion (about 135 degrees of flexion).
3. Perform 7 curls through the full range of motion.
TRICEPS EXTENSION 21S
Perform the triceps extension while standing, sitting, or lying down, using a barbell, dumbbells, 
or cables.
1. Perform 7 extensions, from arms extended to 90 degrees of elbow flexion.
2. Perform 7 extensions, from 90 degrees of elbow flexion to full extension.
3. Perform 7 extensions through the full range of motion.
Also try the protocol with bench presses, rows, and flys using this approach. You can do 2 to 
4 sets and you are done—instant pump! Give them a shot.
Summary
I certainly hope this chapter offered some new ideas for training your arms. Hitting 
your arm training from a different angle may not only provide a different training 
stimulus but also reinvigorate your interest in training—a great bonus to any training 
approach. Remember to play with the volume throughout the week and spread out 
your program if you feel you are not recovering well from a workout that loads all arm 
work in one day. Also remember that when you train your back, chest, and shoulders, 
you also work your arms. Realizing this may reduce the amount of specialized arm 
work you perform, saving you time as well as wear and tear on your joints.

85
CHAPTER 7
Shoulders
This chapter offers a wide spectrum of shoulder workouts, from shoulder health 
to shoulder-building workouts. You’ll find workouts with equipment that travels 
or stores easily and routines that bodybuilders perform in the local gym. I also 
provide a progression scheme that will allow most people to start the workouts with 
low volumes and slowly progress to the higher-volume weeks.
Some workouts provide general conditioning, others focus on metabolic shoulder 
endurance, and others attack each aspect of shoulder development individually. How -
ever, if you want to work on only one aspect of your shoulders, you can simply perform 
only the exercises pertaining to the part of the shoulders you want to emphasize. For 
example, if you want to train the front of the shoulders (anterior or front deltoids) on 
the day you train chest, you can take a few of the front deltoid exercises and combine 
them with your chest routine. Likewise, you can take some of the posterior deltoid 
work provided in this chapter and combine it with your back work. This approach 
takes advantage of the synergy between adjacent body parts, thereby enhancing train -
ing efficiency.
Another way to use these exercises and routines, especially the metabolic routines, 
is to incorporate them as flush protocols after your traditional shoulder training. This 
means that you can use one to three flush sets of a metabolic routine (high volume of 
fast repetitions) to volumize the shoulders after you complete 12 to 20 total sets of tra -
ditional shoulder strength training. By volumize,  I mean to bring a lot of blood volume 
into an area quickly. This approach is standard practice in bodybuilding and finishes 
the pump; often these protocols are called finishers.  Volumizing an area not only feels 
good by providing an incredible pump, it also provides a host of hypertrophic stimuli 
that trigger muscle growth.
Of all body parts, the shoulders frame the body, and this is especially true for men. 
From the front, and even the back, the shoulders provide the perception of width of 
the upper body. Combining this with a small waist results in the V shape every man 
wants. The V the shoulders provide is also the top of the hourglass shape every woman 
is looking for. This is especially true today, when women are increasingly looking for 
a toned and muscular body.
From a performance perspective, the shoulder attaches the body to its most used and 
skilled limbs, the arms. From picking up kids to serving a tennis ball and from swing -
ing a golf club to carrying groceries, the shoulders connect the arms to the body. The 
shoulders have to accelerate and decelerate the arms during throwing motions, cover 
big ranges of motion in activities such as swimming, and absorb high forces during 
punching or when breaking falls. The shoulders serve as the attachment point of the 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 86
arms and body during swinging, transferring enormous torque from the hips to the 
club or bat. Finally, the shoulders also have to keep the arms in place during heavy 
lifting and holding, such in wrestling and while carrying heavy objects. Therefore, 
few body parts are as complex and as involved in so many important movements as 
the shoulders. It would be wise to give the same importance to the shoulders as to 
other body parts such as the chest, legs, arms, and abs.
The shoulders are as complex and temperamental as any structure in the body. 
Therefore, training and staying pain-free is of paramount importance. If you are going 
to consider slowing the tempo and working on partial ranges of motion with any body 
part, the shoulders are a great candidate for both. The time-under-tension approach 
allows you to effectively overload a muscle while using a lighter weight without over -
loading the joint with a heavier load. The partial training approach also allows you to 
train the shoulder in ranges that don’t hurt, instead of avoiding an exercise altogether. 
I have been specifically effective with high-volume, partial-range-of-motion lateral 
raises when faced with an impinged supraspinatus. This approach allowed time for 
me to rehabilitate the impingement while I maintained excellent muscular develop -
ment in my deltoids.
The deltoids lend themselves to performing higher and lighter volume over the week, 
instead of banging 20 to 30 sets in one day. I found that I could better handle 30 sets 
over three days (e.g., Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday) rather than doing 20 sets in one 
day. Yes, if I spread out the volume, I can actually get more work in without overtrain -
ing my shoulders. Therefore, if you are not recovering from your weekly volume on 
one day, split the weekly volume over a few days. Your shoulders will thank you for it.
I have suggested progressions for beginner and advanced trainees in almost all 
workouts. However, if you have not trained in more than a month and feel like you 
need to establish a base or you are inexperienced in training, I strongly recommend you 
finish this two-week program before attempting any of the workouts in this chapter.
WEEK 1: DO EACH EXERCISE SEPARATELY.
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
DB overhead press (1-2 sets × 10-15 repetitions)
DB upright row (1-2 sets × 10-15 repetitions)
WEEK 2: DO EACH EXERCISE SEPARATELY.
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
DB overhead press (2-3 sets × 8-12 repetitions)
DB upright row (2-3 sets × 8-12 repetitions)
DB lateral raise (2-3 sets × 10-12 repetitions)
Due to our excessive sitting and structural flexing to the pull of gravity, the shoulders 
and the hips are extremely susceptible to postural and functional issues. Although these 
workouts provide excellent work and address the postural muscles, it’s always a great 
idea to have some kind of warm-up to prepare the shoulders for work and to restore 
some of the postural deficiencies. Tables 7 .1 and 7 .2 provide two examples. I’ve added 
these warm-up routines in the shoulder chapter because in my experience, shoulders 
are complicated joints and may be temperamental, often requiring a longer warm-up 
compared to other body parts. However, these warm-up routines can be used before 
any upper-body workout.

87Table 7.1 Superset With 5-24 Lb (3-11 Kg) Plate
Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
Short halo with 
weight plate 
(elbows flexed)
Stand upright, holding a weight plate in 
both hands above your head. Make a small 
circle (i.e., halo) around your head with the 
plate. Repeat for desired repetitions, then 
reverse direction.2 × 10 each direction
Pressed halo 
with weight plate 
(elbows extended)
Stand upright, holding a weight plate in 
both hands high above your head, arms 
fully extended. Make a big circle (i.e., halo) 
above your head with the plate. Repeat 
for prescribed repetitions, then reverse 
direction.2 × 10 each direction
Push–pull with 
weight plate
Stand upright, holding a weight plate with 
both hands in front of you at chest level. 
Extend your arms forward, then flex your 
elbows to bring the plate back to your 
chest. Repeat.2 × 10
Short chop
 Stand upright, holding a weight plate with 
your arms fully extended and level with 
your head. Keeping your arms straight, 
lower the plate to waist height, then back 
to starting position. Repeat.2 × 10

88Table 7.2 Superset With Stability Ball and JC Traveler or Sports Bands
Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
SB roll-out
 Stand tall in front of a wall. Hold the 
stability ball between your hands and the 
wall at chest height. With your arms fully 
extended, roll the ball up the wall until 
your entire body is extended and the ball 
is right above your head. Pull your arms 
and roll the ball to return to the starting 
position. Repeat.2 × 10
SB single-arm 
pitcher’s roll-out
Stand tall in front of a wall with the stabil -
ity ball between your right hand and the 
wall at chest height. With your arm fully 
extended, step with your left leg and roll 
the ball up the wall until you are in a lunge 
position, with your right arm in a throwing 
motion and supported by the stability ball. 
Step back and roll your right arm to the 
starting position. Repeat to the other side. 2 × 10 per side
SB arm through 
(cross reach)
Face the wall with a stability ball between 
your chest and the wall. Slide your right 
hand across your body, between the sta -
bility ball and your chest. Slide your arm 
across and rotate left until the stability 
ball is behind your right shoulder. Rotate 
right and slide your left hand between the 
stability ball and your chest, rotating right 
until the stability ball is behind your left 
shoulder. Repeat.2 × 10 per side
BP Y
 Stand facing a set of bands at chest to 
shoulder height, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold the handles with your arms ex -
tended in a neutral grip (palms facing each 
other and thumbs pointing up) at shoulder 
height. Keeping your arms extended and 
your shoulder blades back and down 
(retracted and depressed), raise your arms 
overhead to create a Y. Lower your arms to 
shoulder height. Repeat.2 × 10
BP T
 Stand facing a set of bands at chest to 
shoulder height, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold the handles with your arms 
extended in a supinated grip (palms facing 
up and thumbs pointing out) at shoulder 
height. Keeping your arms fully extended 
and your shoulder blades back and down 
(retracted and depressed), open your arms 
laterally to create a T. Bring your arms 
back to the starting position. Repeat.2 × 10

89Exercise Photo Description Sets × reps
BP I
 Stand facing a set of bands at chest to 
shoulder height, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold the handles with your arms 
extended in a supinated grip (palms facing 
up and thumbs pointing out) at shoulder 
height. Keeping your arms fully extended 
and your shoulder blades back and down 
(retracted and depressed), pull your arms 
by your sides, thumbs pointing behind 
you. Bring your arms back to the starting 
position. Repeat.2 × 10
HIS SHOULDERS 1: ROTATOR CUFF WORKOUT
This shoulder rehabilitation program can help your recovery from a shoulder injury, but it can also 
be a maintenance program for athletes who perform overhead throwing motions. It is arranged 
in three 2-exercise circuits for maximum training efficiency. However, feel free to rearrange the 
exercises, such as mixing up internal and external rotation exercises in a 1a, 2a, and 3a circuit, 
then 1b, 2b, and 3b.
Equipment
Band such as JC Traveler or sports band, sturdy object, dumbbells, bench
Notes
Perform 2 or 3 times per week.HIS WORKOUTS
Table 7.3 His Shoulders 1: Rotator Cuff Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Isometric IR 
(up) band walk
Face away from a band placed at shoul -
der height. Hold the handle in your right 
hand, your arm raised by your side and 
your elbow flexed at 90 degrees. Keeping 
your right arm in place, slowly take 2 or 3 
steps forward or until you reach maxi -
mum tension. When you have reached 
maximum tension, hold for 2 sec and walk 
back to the starting position. Repeat for 
prescribed repetitions, then switch to the 
other side.Week 1 2 × 2 walks
Week 2 2 × 3 walks
Week 3 3 × 2 walks
Week 4 4 × 3 walks
1b. Isometric IR 
(down) band walk
Stand with the band to your right and at 
elbow height. Hold the handle in your right 
hand, your right upper arm tight against 
your right side and your elbow flexed at 90 
degrees. Keeping your right arm in place, 
slowly take 2 or 3 steps to your left or until 
you reach maximum tension. When you 
have reached maximum tension, hold for 
2 sec, then walk back to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat for prescribed repetitions, 
then switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 2 walks
Week 2 2 × 3 walks
Week 3 3 × 2 walks
Week 4 4 × 3 walks
(continued)

90Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2a. Isometric ER 
(up) band walk
Face a band placed at shoulder height, the 
handle in your right hand, your arm raised 
by your side, and your elbow flexed at 90 
degrees. Keeping your right arm in place, 
slowly take 2 or 3 steps back or until you 
reach maximum tension. When you have 
reached maximum tension, hold for 2 sec, 
then walk back to the starting position. 
Repeat for prescribed repetitions, then 
switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 2 walks
Week 2 2 × 3 walks
Week 3 3 × 2 walks
Week 4 4 × 3 walks
2b. Isometric ER 
(down) band walk
Stand with the band to your left and at 
elbow height, the handle in your right 
hand, right upper arm tight against your 
right side, and your elbow flexed at 90 
degrees. Keeping your right arm in place, 
slowly take 2 or 3 steps to the right or until 
you reach maximum tension. When you 
have reached maximum tension, hold for 
2 sec, then walk back to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat for prescribed repetitions, 
then switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 2 walks
Week 2 2 × 3 walks
Week 3 3 × 2 walks
Week 4 4 × 3 walks
3a. DB isometric 
IR (supine)
Lie flat on your back on a bench and hold 
a dumbbell in your right hand. Keep your 
upper right arm parallel to the ground and 
your right elbow flexed at 90 degrees (like 
at the bottom of the bench press). Allow 
your right arm to externally rotate until 
the right forearm is parallel to the ground. 
Hold for 3 sec, then return to the starting 
position. Repeat for prescribed repeti-
tions, then switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 2
Week 2 2 × 3
Week 3 3 × 2
Week 4 4 × 3
3b. DB isometric 
ER (prone)
Lie flat on your belly on a bench, your 
feet shoulder-width apart. Hold a dumb -
bell in your right hand. Keep your right 
elbow flexed at 90 degrees and your right 
forearm perpendicular to the ground. 
Externally rotate the right shoulder 
until your right forearm is parallel to the 
ground. Hold for 3 sec, then return to the 
starting position. Repeat for prescribed 
repetitions, then switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 2
Week 2 2 × 3
Week 3 3 × 2
Week 4 4 × 3Table 7.3 His Shoulders 1: Rotator Cuff Workout (continued)

91HIS SHOULDERS 2: FUNCTIONAL SHOULDERS
This 4-week program is a functional training program for the shoulders. It is arranged in two 
2-exercise circuits, with a band finisher for maximum training efficiency. However, you can 
rearrange the exercises in another order, such as 1a and 2a, 1b and 2b, and finish with the band 
routine. This is a perfect workout for people interested in getting a considerable amount of core 
training while also focusing on their shoulders. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, 
while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a con -
siderable training base.
Equipment
Stability ball, dumbbells, suspension system, double cable machine with handle attachments or 
bands such as JC Travelers or Sports Bands, Superband
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for advanced trainees only).
Table 7.4 His Shoulders 2: Functional Shoulder
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. SB pike press
 From a plank position (prone), place your 
hands on the floor and extend your elbows, 
the tops of your feet on the stability ball. 
Contracting your core, roll the stability 
ball toward you, hinging your hips up into 
an inverted position. Roll the stability ball 
away from you until you are back in plank 
position. Perform a push-up. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 6
Week 2 3 × 8
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 4 × 10
1b. DB muscle 
snatch
Hold a dumbbell in each hand. Squat, low -
ering the dumbbells in front of your thighs 
with your arms straight. Pull the dumbbells 
up by extending your hips and knees. Shrug 
your shoulders and pull up aggressively as 
you pull your body under the dumbbells. 
Catch the dumbbells at arm’s length with 
legs fully extended. Lower the dumbbells to 
the front of your thighs. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 6 per arm 
Week 2 3 × 8 per arm
Week 3 4 × 10 per arm
Week 4 4 × 10 per arm
2a. Suspension 
rear delt high row
Grab the suspension handles in a pronated 
grip, keeping your arms extended. Step 
forward until your body reclines, keep -
ing your legs and body straight. Pull your 
body up until your elbows are directly 
lateral to each side without allowing your 
elbows to drop. Return to the reclined 
position until your arms are fully extended. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 6
Week 2 3 × 8
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 4 × 10
(continued)

92Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. BP double-arm 
3D 60 lateral raise
Stand between 2 low bands or 2 cables set 
at the lowest level. Hold the handles in a 
pronated grip and let the bands or cables 
create an X in front of you. Split a lateral 
raise into 3 ranges: the lower third, the 
middle third, and the highest third. Keep -
ing your arms straight, laterally raise your 
arms, then return to the starting position. 
Repeat. Perform the indicated repetitions 
at each range: lower, mid, and high.Week 1 2 × 10 + 10 + 10
Week 2 3 × 15 + 15 + 15
Week 3 4 × 20 + 20 + 20
Week 4 4 × 20 + 20 + 20
BAND FINISHER: PERFORM AS A SUPERSET. STAND IN FRONT OF A CABLE MACHINE OR SET OF LOW BANDS  
OR STEP ON A SUPERBAND FOR THIS SUPERSET.
3a. BP front raise
 Hold the band, palms down. Raise your 
arms to the front to shoulder height and 
lower to starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 4 × 20
3b. BP wide 
upright row
Hold the band, palms down. Initiating the 
pull with your elbows, pull the band until 
your hands are wider than shoulder-width 
and shoulder height. Lower to starting 
position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 4 × 20
3c. BP close 
upright row
Hold the bands with your arms straight 
and in front of your thighs with palms 
facing the body. Initiating the pull with 
your elbows, pull the band until the hands 
are chest-width and shoulder height. 
Lower to starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 4 × 20Table 7.4 His Shoulders 2: Functional Shoulder (continued)

93HIS SHOULDERS 3: IRON-PLATED SHOULDERS
This is a 4-week killer plate program for the shoulders. I first learned of this workout from a 1990s 
bootleg video of the Cuban wrestling and weightlifting teams warming up and conditioning. When 
you don’t have any money to train, you come up with ingenious ways to train, and this is one of 
them. Although each exercise can be performed by itself as a strengthening move, I first saw it as 
a conditioning circuit, so this is how it’s presented here. The plates are 10-45 lb (5-20 kg), depend -
ing on how many repetitions are being completed and your strength and conditioning level. I have 
done each of these circuits with a 45 lb (20 kg) plate, and one set crushed me! So, be ready if you 
decide to go for it with the big 45! Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 
and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals with a considerable training base.
Equipment
Weight plates
Notes
Perform exercises 1a, 1b, and 1c as a superset without resting or putting down the plate. Then after 
1-3 min of rest, perform exercises 2a, 2b, and 2c as a superset without resting or putting down the 
plate. Very elite athletes can try 20-rep sets.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1-2 time per week (very advanced trainees only).
Table 7.5 His Shoulders 3: Iron-Plated Shoulders
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Short halo 
with weight plate 
(elbows flexed)
Stand upright, holding a weight plate in 
both hands above your head. Make a small 
circle (i.e., halo) around your head with the 
plate. Repeat for prescribed repetitions, 
then reverse direction.Week 1 2 × 6 per side
Week 2 3 × 8 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 12 per side
1b. Push–pull with 
weight plate
Stand upright, holding a weight plate with 
both hands in front of you at chest level. 
Extend your arms forward, then flex your 
elbows to bring the plate back to your 
chest. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 6
Week 2 3 × 8
Week 3 3 × 10
Week 4 4 × 12
1c. Infinity
 Stand upright, holding a weight plate with 
both hands in front of you at chest level 
with arms fully extended forward. Move 
the plate in an infinity sign or a sideways 
number 8. Repeat for prescribed repeti-
tions, then reverse direction.Week 1 2 × 6 per side
Week 2 3 × 8 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 12 per side
(continued)

94Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1d. Steering wheel
 Stand upright, holding a weight plate with 
both hands in front of you at chest level 
with your arms fully extended forward. 
Rotate the plate to the right and then 
to the left, like driving a car. Repeat for 
prescribed repetitions.Week 1 2 × 6 per side
Week 2 3 × 8 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 12 per side
2a. Overhead 
press with weight 
plate
Stand upright, holding a weight plate with 
both hands above your head with your 
arms fully extended. Lower the plate to 
just above your head. Push the plate up 
toward the ceiling until your arms are fully 
extended. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 6
Week 2 3 × 8
Week 3 3 × 10
Week 4 4 × 12
2b. Pressed halo 
with weight plate
Stand upright, holding a weight plate in 
both hands high above your head, your 
arms fully extended. Make a big circle 
(i.e., halo) above your head with the plate. 
Repeat for prescribed repetitions, then 
reverse direction.Week 1 2 × 6 per side
Week 2 3 × 8 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 12 per side
2c. Clock
 Stand upright, holding a weight plate 
with both hands above your head with 
your arms fully extended. Keeping your 
arms straight, move the plate in a large 
circle, like a giant clock; 12 is arms over 
the head, and 6 is at waist height. Repeat 
for prescribed repetitions, then reverse 
direction.Week 1 2 × 6 per side
Week 2 3 × 8 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 12 per side
2d. Full (long) 
chop
Stand upright, holding a weight plate with 
both hands overhead with your arms fully 
extended. Keeping your arms straight, 
lower the plate to waist height, then return 
to starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 6
Week 2 3 × 8
Week 3 3 × 10
Week 4 4 × 12Table 7.5 His Shoulders 3: Iron-Plated Shoulders (continued)

95HIS SHOULDERS 4: DB AND CABLE SHOULDER WORKOUT
This 4-week program is a dumbbell and cable workout that can easily pack on some muscle. It is 
arranged in three 2-exercise circuits for maximum training efficiency. Some of our big athletes like 
to go slowly, do each exercise in succession, and rest a little more between sets. This takes well 
over an hour and a half to do the higher volumes of week 3 and 4, especially week 4. This added 
time allows them to use more weight, which they feel provides better hypertrophy. However, 
with this two-movement superset format, weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people who 
don’t have too much time to train and want to train at a faster pace. Weeks 3 and 4 should be 
attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Adjustable weight bench, dumbbells, dual cable machine with rope, bar, and single-handle 
attachments, JC Bands
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for advanced trainees only).
Table 7.6 His Shoulders 4: DB and Cable Shoulder Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Seated dumb -
bell press
Sit upright on a bench with a back sup -
port. Keep your feet flat on the floor and 
shoulder-width apart. Hold a dumbbell 
in each hand. Bring the dumbbells up, 
outside of shoulder-width, palms facing 
forward. Press the dumbbells overhead 
until your arms are fully extended. Lower 
the dumbbells to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. Low rope face 
pull
Stand in front of a pulley machine with 
a rope attachment attached in a low 
position, about knee height, your feet 
shoulder-width apart and knees slightly 
bent. (You may also use a seated cable 
row machine.) Hold the ends of the rope 
in a pronated grip. Pull the weight toward 
the neck until your hands are at shoulder 
height inside of shoulder-width. Extend 
your elbows to return to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 15
2a. Seated wide 
and high pull-
down
Sit upright at a cable pull-down machine 
with a bar attachment. Hold the bar 
with extended arms, using a neutral or 
pronated grip, depending on the bar used, 
your hands wider than shoulder-width. 
Keeping your elbows high, lean back 
slightly and squeeze the backs of your 
shoulders, pulling the bar toward your 
clavicle. Extend the arms back to the start -
ing position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 10
(continued)

96Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. Lean away 
cable lateral raise
Stand with a low pulley to the right of you. 
Hold the handle with your left hand in a 
pronated grip (palm down). Hold on to 
the cable column with your right arm and 
lean your entire body to the left about 60 
degrees. Keeping a consistent lean, later -
ally raise your left arm until your left hand 
is at shoulder height. Lower the cable and 
repeat for prescribed repetitions, then 
switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side 
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 12 per side
3a. Wide-grip 
supinated cable 
row
Sit upright at a seated cable rowing 
machine, feet flat on the platform. Hold the 
bar with extended arms using a supinated 
grip with hands wider than shoulder-
width. Keeping your elbows high, squeeze 
the backs of your shoulders and pulling 
the bar high to the chest. Extend the arms 
back to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
3b. BP pronated 
short TStand in front of a dual cable or JC band, 
your feet shoulder-width apart. With one 
handle in each hand at shoulder height, 
extend your arms in front of you in a 
pronated grip (palms down). Keeping your 
arms extended and palms facing down, 
squeeze the backs of your shoulders to 
open your arms laterally to create a T, 
contracting your back. Return 1/2 of the 
way to the starting position and open your 
arms again, staying in the zone where the 
rear delts don’t have time to rest. Repeat 
through that short range of motion. Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 20
Week 3 4 × 25
Week 4 5 × 30Table 7.6 His Shoulders 4: DB and Cable Shoulder Workout (continued)
HIS SHOULDERS 5: PRO BURN SHOULDERS
This 4-week program is a monster, professional-grade shoulder workout. It is performed on 2 
separate days with a customary 2-exercise superset. However, our pros often like to complete 
each exercise in succession before going to the next exercise during their mass-building periods 
(non-competition phase), then they switch to this fast superset format during their precontest 
phase. Some pros who claimed their shoulders were weak areas in their physiques have even 
added a third day of lighter training to this program. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most 
people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have 
a considerable training base.
Equipment
Shoulder press machine, cable machine with handle attachment, dumbbells, Smith machine, 
barbell, JC Sports Bands, Superband, adjustable weight bench, rear delt machine
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for advanced trainees only).


97Table 7.7 His Shoulders 5: Pro Burn Shoulders
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
DAY 1
1a. Machine shoul -
der pressSit at a shoulder press machine, feet flat 
on the floor and shoulder-width apart, 
your back against the backrest. Hold the 
handles at shoulder height, keeping your 
elbows flexed and in line with your torso. 
Extend your elbows, pressing the handles 
overhead. After your arms are fully 
extended, lower the handles to the starting 
position. Repeat.Week 1 2 ×  10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. Cable single-
arm cross upright 
row
Stand with a low pulley to the left of you, 
your feet shoulder-width apart, your knees 
slightly bent, and use a pronated grip 
(palm facing you) to hold the cable handle 
in your right hand. Keep your body rigid 
and laterally raise your right elbow to pull 
the handle diagonally across your body to 
the right chest. Lower the handle to the 
starting position. Repeat for prescribed 
repetitions, then switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side 
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 12 per side
2a. DB front raise 
(neutral grip)
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand. 
Keeping a neutral grip (palms facing each 
other) and your elbows extended, raise 
the dumbbells in front of you to shoulder 
height. Lower the dumbbells to the start -
ing position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 15
2b. BB behind-the-
back grip shrug
Stand with a barbell behind you, racked 
at arm’s length, and your feet shoulder-
width apart. Holding the barbell behind 
your back, palms away from you (pronated 
grip), unrack the bar and raise your shoul -
ders. Squeeze your trapezius muscles at 
the top and lower to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 15
BAND FINISHER: CAN PERFORM AS A SUPERSET
3a. BP Y (pulse at 
top end of move -
ment)
Stand facing a set of bands at chest to 
shoulder height, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold the handles with your arms 
extended in a neutral grip at shoulder 
height (palms facing each other and thumbs 
pointing up). Keeping your arms extended 
and your shoulder blades back and down 
(retracted and depressed), raise your arms 
overhead to create a Y. Lower your arms 
halfway to shoulder height. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 20
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 ×  20
(continued)


98Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
3b. BP pronated 
short T
Stand in front of a dual cable or JC band, 
your feet shoulder-width apart. With a 
handle in each hand at shoulder height, 
extend your arms in front of you in a 
pronated grip (palms down). Keeping your 
arms extended and palms facing down, 
squeeze the backs of your shoulders to 
open your arms laterally to create a T, 
contracting your back. Return 1/2 of the 
way to the starting position and open your 
arms again, staying in the zone where the 
rear delts don’t have time to rest. Repeat 
through that short range of motion.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 20
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 20
DAY 2
1a. Arnold press Sit on a bench, your feet flat on the floor 
and shoulder-width apart. Hold a dumb -
bell in each hand. Lift the dumbbells to 
chest level, your elbows flexed and side 
by side, palms facing your chest. Extend 
your elbows, pressing the dumbbells up, 
while rotating your palms out so the arms 
are fully extended above your head and 
your palms face away from you. Lower the 
dumbbells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. Lean away DB 
lateral raise
Stand with a sturdy column to your right. 
Hold a dumbbell in a neutral grip with your 
left hand. Hold on to the column with your 
right arm and lean your entire body to the 
left about 60 degrees. Keeping a consis -
tent lean, laterally raise the dumbbell until 
your left hand is at shoulder height. Lower 
the dumbbell and repeat for prescribed 
repetitions, then switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side 
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 15 per side
2a. Machine rear 
delt lift
Sit at the rear delt machine, your feet flat 
on the floor and shoulder-width apart and 
your chest against the chest pad. Hold on 
to the handles in front of you in a pronated 
grip and with your elbows slightly bent. 
Pull the handles laterally out to your sides 
and back, contracting your rear delts. 
Slowly return the handles to the starting 
position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 15Table 7.7 His Shoulders 5: Pro Burn Shoulders (continued)


99Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. DB shrug
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each 
hand. Keeping your palms facing your 
body, raise your shoulders, contracting 
your trapezius muscles. Slowly lower your 
shoulders to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 15
BAND FINISHER: CAN PERFORM AS A SUPERSET
3a. BP Y (pulse at 
top end of move -
ment)
Stand facing a set of bands at chest to 
shoulder height, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold the handles in a neutral grip 
(palms facing each other and thumbs 
pointing up) with your arms extended 
at shoulder height. Keeping your arms 
extended and your shoulder blades back 
and down (retracted and depressed), raise 
your arms overhead to create a Y. Lower 
your arms a quarter of the way to shoulder 
height. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 20
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 20
3b. BP pronated 
short T
Stand in front of a dual cable or JC band, 
your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold a 
handle in each hand at shoulder height, 
your arms extended in front of you in a 
pronated grip (palms down). Keeping your 
arms extended and palms facing down, 
squeeze the backs of your shoulder to open 
your arms laterally to create a T, contract -
ing your back. Come back 1/2 of the way 
to the starting position and open the 
arms again, staying in the zone where the 
rear delts don’t have time to rest. Repeat 
through that short range of motion.Week 1 2 × 15
Week 2 3 × 20
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 20

100HER SHOULDERS 1: HEALTHY SHOULDERS WORKOUT
This 4-week program is a standard rehab/prehab workout for the shoulders. These are the reme -
dial exercises I used to help rehab a SLAP tear, 4 weeks before the 1997 U.S. Open weightlifting 
competition. Since then, we have used these exercises to warm up, get a little pump, and keep 
your shoulders healthy. They are not the most functional exercises, but they are certainly useful 
enough to make it into this book. We like to use the pink JC Sports Bands for most applications, 
but stronger people can use the orange JC Sports Bands. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most 
people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have 
a considerable training base.
Equipment
Bands with handles such as JC Sports Bands or JC Traveler
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for advanced trainees only).HER WORKOUTS
Table 7.8 Her Shoulders 1: Healthy Shoulders Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. BP Y
 Stand facing a set of bands at chest to 
shoulder height, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold the handles with your arms 
extended in a neutral grip (palms facing 
each other and thumbs pointing up) 
at shoulder height. Keeping your arms 
extended and your shoulder blades back 
and down (retracted and depressed), raise 
your arms overhead to create a Y. Lower 
your arms to shoulder height. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 20
1b. BP T
 Stand facing a set of bands at chest to 
shoulder height, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold the handles with your arms 
extended in a supinated grip (palms facing 
up and thumbs pointing out) at shoulder 
height. Keeping your arms fully extended 
and your shoulder blades back and down 
(retracted and depressed), open your arms 
laterally to create a T. Bring your arms 
back to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 20
1c. BP I
 Stand facing a set of bands at chest to 
shoulder height, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold the handles with your arms 
extended in a supinated grip (palms facing 
up and thumbs pointing out) at shoulder 
height. Keeping your arms fully extended 
and your shoulder blades back and down 
(retracted and depressed), pull your arms 
down as close as you can to the sides of 
your hips, thumbs pointing behind you. 
Bring your arms back to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 20

101HER SHOULDERS 2: FUNCTIONAL SHOULDERS
This 4-week program is a functional training program for the shoulders. It is arranged in two 
3-exercise circuits for maximum training efficiency. You can also rearrange the exercise into 3 
circuits, such as 1a and 2a, 1b and 2b, and 1c and 2c. This is a functional workout for people 
interested in getting a considerable amount of core training while also developing nice tone 
in their shoulders. If rearranged, this workout can make a great boot camp circuit that targets 
upper-body endurance. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 
should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Dumbbells, cable machine with handle attachment or bands with handles (such as JC Sports 
Band or a JC Traveler), battle rope, weight plate
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for advanced trainees only).
Table 7.9 Her Shoulders 2: Functional Shoulders
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. DB overhead 
pressStand with your feet shoulder-width apart. 
Hold a dumbbell in each hand at shoulder 
height, palms facing away from you. Press 
both dumbbells overhead until arms are 
fully extended and dumbbells are in line 
with your shoulders. Lower the dumbbells 
to the starting position and repeat. Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 8 per side
1b. Low band 
alternating upright 
row
Attach a band to a low attachment point 
(can use a low cable set) or stand on the 
nylon strap. Stand facing the band, hold -
ing a handle in each hand. Keeping your 
hands shoulder-width apart, pull straight 
up with your right arm, raising your elbow 
until it’s at chest level. Lower the right 
handle and simultaneously upright row to 
chest level with your left arm. Repeat for 
prescribed repetitions.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 15 per side
1c. Bent-over rope 
circles (in-out)
Stand with a secured battle rope in front 
of you, your feet shoulder-width apart. 
Hold the ends of the rope at arm’s length 
in front of you. Bend over at the waist. 
Hold this position while creating clockwise 
circles with your right hand and coun -
terclockwise circles with your left hand. 
Repeat for prescribed repetitions, then 
switch directions.Week 1 2 × 15 per direction 
Week 2 3 × 20 per direction
Week 3 4 × 20 per direction
Week 4 5 × 25 per direction
(continued)


102Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2a. DB cross 
uppercut
Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. 
Hold a dumbbell in each hand using a 
supinated grip (palms up), elbows flexed 
to 90 degrees. Using your right hand, 
uppercut across your body toward your 
left shoulder, allowing a slight body rota -
tion to the left. As you bring your right arm 
back to the starting position, perform a 
cross uppercut with your left hand, bring -
ing it across your body toward the right 
shoulder. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 8 per side
2b. Figure eight 
with weight plate
Stand upright, holding a weight plate in 
front of you at chest level, your arms fully 
extended. Paint a figure eight with the 
weight plate, from the top of your head to 
your waist. Perform in both directions.Week 1 2 × 6 each direction
Week 2 3 × 8 each direction
Week 3 4 × 10 each direction
Week 4 5 × 8 each direction
2c. Bent-over rope 
wave (up-down)
Stand with a secured battle rope in front 
of you, your feet shoulder-width apart. 
Hold the ends of the rope at arm’s length 
in front of you. Bend over at the waist. 
Hold this position while bringing your 
right hand up as your left hand goes down 
and vice versa. You should create vertical 
waves in the rope. Repeat for prescribed 
number of repetitions.Week 1 2 × 15 per side
Week 2 3 × 20 per side
Week 3 4 × 20 per side
Week 4 5 × 25 per sideTable 7.9 Her Shoulders 2: Functional Shoulders (continued)
HER SHOULDERS 3: DB AND ROPE SHOULDERS
This 4-week program is a dumbbell and battle rope metabolic protocol for the shoulders. It is 
arranged in three 2-exercise circuits for maximum muscular endurance in a time-efficient manner. 
The dumbbell exercise strengthens, tones, and prefatigues the shoulders, while the ropes provide 
endurance and volumize the entire shoulder area. These exercises also can be used in a group 
circuit with the goal to provide a lot of upper-body toning and killer cardio. Weeks 1 and 2 will 
be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced 
individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Dumbbells, battle rope
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (advanced trainees only).

103Table 7.10 Her Shoulders 3: Dumbbell and Rope Shoulders 
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Running curl 
 Stand upright, holding a dumbbell in each 
hand. Keeping your hands shoulder-width 
apart, bend your elbows 90 degrees. Rap -
idly pump one arm forward and the other 
backward, as if you were running. One 
repetition is a full arm-swing cycle (i.e., 
forward and back). Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 8 per side
1b. Rope up and 
down
Stand with a secured battle rope in front 
of you, feet shoulder-width apart. Hold the 
ends of the rope at arm’s length in front of 
you. Keeping your body rigid, simultane -
ously bring both hands up and then down 
to create symmetrical and identical waves 
in the rope.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 15
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 5 × 25
2a. DB alternating 
upright row
Stand upright, holding a dumbbell in 
each hand with palms facing the body 
(pronated). Keeping your hands shoulder-
width apart, use your right arm to pull the 
dumbbell up to chest level, raising your 
elbow until it’s at shoulder level. Lower the 
right dumbbell and simultaneously upright 
row the left dumbbell. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 8 per side
2b. Rope circles 
(clockwise and 
counterclockwise)
Stand with a secured battle rope in front 
of you, your feet shoulder-width apart. 
Hold the ends of the rope at arm’s length 
in front of you. Keeping your body rigid, 
simultaneously create clockwise circles 
with your right hand and counterclockwise 
circles with your left hand. Perform repeti -
tions indicated and reverse direction.Week 1 2 × 10 per direction
Week 2 3 × 15 per direction
Week 3 4 × 20 per direction
Week 4 5 × 25 per direction
3a. DB lateral 3D 
60 raise
Stand upright, holding a dumbbell in each 
hand by your sides, your palms facing in. 
Separate a lateral raise into 3 sections: 
lower third, middle third, and top third. 
For the first movement, keeping a slight 
bend in your elbow, perform short and fast 
lateral pumps through the first third of the 
range. For the second movement, keeping 
a slight bend in your elbow, perform short 
and fast lateral pumps through the middle 
third of the range. For the third move -
ment, keeping a slight bend in your elbow, 
perform short and fast lateral pumps 
through the top third of the range. Repeat 
for prescribed repetitions in each of the 3 
ranges.Week 1 2 × 15 + 15 + 15
Week 2 3 × 10 + 10 + 10
Week 3 4 × 15 + 15 + 15
Week 4 5 × 10 + 10 + 10
(continued)

104Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
3b. Rope circles 
(counterclockwise 
and clockwise)
Stand with a secured battle rope in front 
of you, your feet shoulder-width apart. 
Hold the ends of the rope at arm’s length 
in front of you. Keeping your body rigid, 
simultaneously create counterclockwise 
circles with your right hand and clockwise 
circles with your left hand. Perform the 
repetitions indicated and reverse direction.Week 1 2 × 10 per direction
Week 2 3 × 15 per direction
Week 3 4 × 20 per direction
Week 4 5 × 25 per directionTable 7.10 Her Shoulders 3: Dumbbell and Rope Shoulders (continued)
HER SHOULDERS 4:  
DB AND CABLES/BANDS SHOULDERS
This 4-week program is a dumbbell and cable program that can easily pack on or tone the 
entire shoulder musculature. You can use bands instead of pulleys and make this a great home 
workout. It is arranged in three 2-exercise circuits for maximum training efficiency. Some of our 
big athletes go at a slower pace and perform each exercise in succession, using dumbbells and 
resting a little more between sets. This approach takes well over an hour and a half to do the 
higher volumes of weeks 3 and 4, especially week 4. The added rest time allows more weight to 
be used in each exercise, which in turn provides better muscular development. However, with this 
two-movement superset format, weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people who don’t have 
too much time to train and want to train at a faster pace. Weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted 
only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base (more than two years 
of steady training).
Equipment
Dumbbells, dual cable machine with two single-handle attachments (or a JC Traveler or Predator 
Jr.), adjustable weight bench
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for advanced trainees only).
Table 7.11  Her Shoulders 4: Dumbbell and Cables/Bands Shoulders
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. DB overhead 
press
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand 
at shoulder height, just outside of shoulder 
width, with your palms facing to the front. 
Press the dumbbells overhead until your 
arms are fully extended. Lower the dumb -
bells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8

105Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1b. DB double-arm 
upright row
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a pair of dumbbells in 
each hand in front of your thighs, your 
palms facing you. Simultaneously pull 
both dumbbells up to your chest, laterally 
raising your elbows to shoulder height. 
Lower the dumbbells to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12
2a. DB lateral raise
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, 
palms facing your body. Keeping your 
elbows slightly flexed, laterally raise your 
arms to shoulder height. Lower the dumb -
bells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 15
2b. Cable single-
arm bent-over 
lateral raise
Stand with a low pulley or band to the left 
of you, your feet shoulder-width apart and 
your knees slightly bent. Hold the cable 
in your right hand with a neutral grip 
(palm facing the cable). Bend over at the 
hips, keeping your torso rigid. Raise your 
right elbow to shoulder height. Lower the 
handle to the starting position. Repeat for 
prescribed repetitions, then switch to the 
other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side 
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per side
3a. DB single-arm 
bent-over wide 
row (neutral to 
supinated)
Stand in front of a weight bench, your feet 
shoulder-width apart. Flex at the hips and 
place your left hand on the bench for sup -
port. Hold a dumbbell in your right hand 
in a neutral grip (palm facing in). Row the 
dumbbell wide while turning it clockwise 
so that the palm faces the bench when 
at the top of the row. Lower the dumb -
bell to the starting position. Repeat for 
prescribed repetitions, then switch to the 
other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per side
3b. Reverse cross 
cable fly (mid-
height)
Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart 
between 2 pulleys at shoulder height (or 
use bands). Hold the left cable in your 
right hand and the right cable in your left 
hand. (You don’t need handles; you can 
hold on to the knobs that hold the carabin -
ers.) Keeping your elbows slightly flexed, 
start with your arms crossed so your 
right hand is in front of your left shoulder 
and your left hand is in front of your right 
shoulder. Laterally open your arms until 
they are in line with your shoulders and 
your body forms a T. Bring your arms to 
the starting crossed position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 15

106HER SHOULDERS 5: PRO PHYSIQUE SHOULDERS
This 4-week program is a hard core shoulder program for professional fitness competitors. It is 
arranged in three 2-exercise circuits for maximum training efficiency. However, many professional 
physique competitors perform each exercise in succession during their muscle-building phase 
then go to the circuit format when they are ready to diet and cut down. Also you can rearrange 
the order of the exercises, such as 1a and 2a, 1b and 2b, and then the finisher, to create different 
circuits. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted 
only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Landmine machine, barbell, dumbbells, dual cable machine (with rope and single-handle attach -
ments), weight bench with back support or adjustable incline bench
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for advanced trainees only).
Table 7.12 Her Shoulders 5: Pro Physique Shoulders
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
DAY 1
1a. Landmine 
press
Stand in front of the end of a barbell 
that has the opposite end secured in a 
landmine machine, your feet shoulder-with 
apart. Hold the end of the barbell in your 
right hand, to the right of your right shoul -
der. Press the end of the barbell up until 
your right arm is fully extended. Lower the 
barbell to the starting position. Repeat for 
prescribed repetitions, then switch to the 
other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 8 per side
1b. 45-degree 
lateral raise
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, 
your palms facing your body (neutral grip). 
Keeping your elbows slightly flexed, raise 
your arms diagonally 45 degrees until at 
shoulder height. Lower the dumbbells to 
the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 12
2a. DB full over -
head lateral raise
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, 
your palms facing the front (supinated 
grip). Keeping your elbows slightly flexed, 
raise your arms laterally in a big semi-
circle until the dumbbells are overhead. 
Lower the dumbbells to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 10

107Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. Bent-over 
cross cable rear 
delt fly
Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart 
between 2 pulleys set at shoulder height. 
Hold the left cable in your right hand and 
the right cable in your left hand. (You 
don’t need handles; you can hold on to the 
knobs that hold the carabiners). Bend at 
your hips, keeping your back straight and 
your elbows slightly flexed. Start with your 
arms crossed so your right hand is in front 
of your left shoulder and your left hand is 
in front of your right shoulder. Laterally 
open your arms until they are in line with 
your shoulders. Lower your arms to the 
starting crossed position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 15
DB FINISHER: USE DUMBBELLS THAT ALLOW YOU TO PERFORM BENT-OVER LATERAL RAISES FOR 12 REPETITIONS. PERFORM 
3A FOR 12 REPETITIONS (WEEKS 1 AND 2) OR 10 REPETITIONS (WEEKS 3 AND 4) AND ALL OTHERS TO FAILURE.
3a. DB bent-over 
lateral raise
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, 
your palms facing each other (in). Bend at 
the hips, keeping your back straight and 
your elbows slightly flexed. Laterally raise 
your arms to shoulder height. Lower the 
dumbbells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × 12
Week 2 1 × 12
Week 3 2 × 10
Week 4 2 or 3 × 10
3b. DB lateral raise
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, 
your palms facing your body. Keeping your 
elbows slightly flexed, laterally raise your 
arms to shoulder height. Lower the dumb -
bells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × failure
Week 2 1 × failure
Week 3 2 × failure
Week 4 2 or 3 × failure
3c. DB front raise
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each 
hand. Keeping a neutral grip (palms facing 
each other) and elbows extended, raise 
the dumbbells in front of you to shoulder 
height. Lower the dumbbells to the start -
ing position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × failure
Week 2 1 × failure
Week 3 2 × failure
Week 4 2 or 3 × failure
(continued)

108Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
3d. DB overhead 
pressStand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand 
at shoulder height, just outside of shoulder 
width, your palms facing to the front. 
Press the dumbbells overhead until your 
arms are fully extended. Lower the dumb -
bells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × failure
Week 2 1 × failure
Week 3 2 × failure
Week 4 2 or 3 × failure
DAY 2
1a. DB elbow in 
seated shoulder 
press
Sit on a bench with a back support 
(shoulder press bench or adjustable 
bench). Keep your feet flat on the floor and 
shoulder-width apart. Hold a dumbbell 
in each hand. Lift the dumbbells inside 
shoulder width, your palms facing each 
other and your elbows resting on your 
ribs. Keeping your forearms and elbows 
less than shoulder width and press dumb -
bells up well above head level. Lower the 
dumbbells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. Behind-the-
back DB lateral 
raise
Stand slightly leaning back with your feet 
shoulder-width apart. Hold a dumbbell in 
each hand behind your rear pockets, your 
palms facing your body. Keep your elbows 
slightly flexed and laterally raise your 
arms, keeping your thumbs up until the 
dumbbells are at shoulder height. Lower 
the dumbbells to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 12
2a. Head rope pull
 Sit upright with your feet flat on the floor 
and shoulder-width apart on a rowing 
machine (or cable machine with a middle 
pulley) with a rope attachment. Holding 
the ends of the rope in a pronated grip, 
pull the rope back toward your face until 
your hands are on each side of your head 
(as if you were showing your arm muscles 
to someone). Extend your arms forward to 
the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2b. Bent-over 
single-arm cable 
rear delt raise
Stand with a low pulley to your left. Hold 
the handle in your right hand with a 
pronated grip. Bend at the waist, keeping 
your back parallel to the ground and your 
right arm hanging straight down (cable 
in hand). Keeping a slight bend in your 
right elbow, laterally raise your right hand 
until it is at shoulder height and your arm 
is parallel to the floor. Slowly return your 
right hand to the starting position. Repeat 
for prescribed repetitions, then switch to 
the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 15 per sideTable 7.12 Her Shoulders 5: Pro Physique Shoulders (continued)


109Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
DB FINISHER: USE DUMBBELLS THAT ALLOW YOU TO PERFORM BENT-OVER LATERAL RAISES FOR 12 REPETITIONS. PERFORM 
3A FOR 12 REPETITIONS (WEEKS 1 AND 2) OR 10 REPETITIONS (WEEKS 3 AND 4) THEN ALL OTHERS TO FAILURE.
3a. DB bent-over 
lateral raise 
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, 
your palms facing each other. Bend at the 
hips, keeping your back straight and your 
elbows slightly flexed. Laterally raise your 
arms to shoulder height. Lower the dumb -
bells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × 12
Week 2 1 × 12
Week 3 2 × 10
Week 4 2 or 3 × 10
3b. DB lateral raise
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand, 
your palms facing your body. Keeping your 
elbows slightly flexed, laterally raise your 
arms to shoulder height. Lower the dumb -
bells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × failure
Week 2 1 × failure
Week 3 2 × failure
Week 4 2 or 3 × failure
3c. DB front raise
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand. 
Keeping a neutral grip (palms facing each 
other) and your elbows extended, raise 
the dumbbells in front of you to shoulder 
height. Lower the dumbbells to the start -
ing position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × failure
Week 2 1 × failure
Week 3 2 × failure
Week 4 2 or 3 × failure
3d. DB overhead 
press
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand 
at shoulder height, just outside of shoulder 
width, your palms facing to the front. 
Press the dumbbells overhead until your 
arms are fully extended. Lower the dumb -
bells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × failure
Week 2 1 × failure
Week 3 2 × failure
Week 4 2 or 3 × failure

JC’s Total Body Transformation 110
Summary
The shoulders are a complex joint, and training them can be a challenge, but they 
also provide an opportunity for diverse programming. The shoulders certainly are 
one of my favorite body parts to train and program. I know you have found a couple 
of new exercises and some exciting workouts in this chapter. If you put in the work, 
the result can be extremely dramatic in aesthetics as well as performance. If your 
shoulders are temperamental, use a longer warm-up, spread the volume over more 
days in a week, and use partial ranges of motion that are pain free. I can’t emphasize 
enough that muscles are muscles and respond to the same stimulus in both men and 
women. Therefore, don’t be afraid to mix and match these workouts to create your 
own unique workout.
Also, don’t be afraid to spread the volume over three sessions in a week. The train -
ing of a body part only one time a week is effective, but I’ve seen professionals spread 
the volume over two or three training sessions. This is especially effective with the 
shoulders since the shoulders can handle volume a lot easier than they can handle load.

111
CHAPTER 8
Chest
This chapter focuses on an area that men especially are interested in developing: 
the chest. I offer everything here from bodyweight and park-type workouts to 
monster bodybuilding workouts. I incorporate various pieces of equipment so 
you can train your chest at home, when you travel, or when at a well-equipped gym. 
As with all the other workouts, I provide a progression schedule so that beginners 
and advanced trainees can select the appropriate training volume.
Like the shoulders, the chest is right there in your face: Everyone looks at it, and 
depending on what they see, they form an opinion. Men are especially in tune to chest 
development for many reasons. The most often asked question of a muscular man is, 
“What do you bench press?” The muscle group required for the bench press is the 
chest, so the question is understandable. The workouts in this chapter will build the 
chest and improve your bench press as well. Additionally, the chest is the first big 
muscle  group that protrudes from the body. It almost serves as a “hedge” for the body, 
establishing a boundary as well as making a statement of power and focus of attention 
in both sexes. Although many women don’t necessarily want big pecs, they do want 
a toned chest, shoulders, and triceps, which are all part of chest work. Working the 
chest is important for both men and women.
Although push-ups and bench presses are the most popular exercises for the chest, 
I provide other exercises to add some spice to your training. However, regardless of 
the type of training you do, the biceps (especially the long head) are involved in many 
of the straight pressing movements, even chest flys. Often the biceps take a beating 
during chest work. Therefore, I have developed a few ways to minimize overuse symp -
toms and pain that can affect the biceps tendon due to excessive pressing motions. 
Biceps tendonitis, which can occur when you train your chest heavy, can be caused 
by a variety of issues, from weak rotator cuff muscles to other muscular imbalances. 
A few principles have helped me work through this condition. Here are some of the 
important strategies I have used successfully to deal with anterior shoulder pain due 
to biceps tendonitis. These strategies will help you avoid what hurts, rest the joints or 
tissues, and work around and on the opposite side of the injury.
The first time I suffered a serious bout of biceps tendonitis (right in the anterior 
shoulder), I took a break from all bench pressing. Instead, I focused on pulling and 
external rotation exercises. I did band flys and focused on ranges of motions that did 
not hurt the shoulder or biceps. I did that for about six weeks to rest the inflamed 
tissues, and the results were awesome. Although I don’t understand the exact mecha -
nism of recovery, and I’m fine with that, this approach helped me get around the issue 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 112
and allow healing while getting stronger. In this chapter, I include some band and 
fly workouts in case you have biceps tendonitis and want to rest your biceps while 
working the chest and core.
Muscular development is about muscle tension and repair due to the cellular disrup -
tion caused by the tension the muscles experience. The amount of tension and disrup -
tion has always been associated with the load and volume of an exercise. After many 
years of constantly using more loads, the joints can take a beating, and conditions such 
as arthritis can develop. Using lighter loads, slower tempos, and better mind-to-muscle 
connection puts tension on a muscle using less weight and fewer sets and reps. This 
strategy is especially good for individuals in their 40s, 50s, and 60s who may have 
joint issues. It can also be used by younger individuals who want to be strong, fit, and 
healthy but avoid the overuse issues seen in athletes who push for maximum loads. 
Obviously, some of these strategies may not apply to athletes who require extreme 
levels of strength and conditioning, but they are certainly worth considering by those 
who are looking for health, fitness, and body transformation and those in sports that 
don’t require insane strength.
With this in mind, feel free to alter the volume of these workouts if you are training 
at a slower tempo. For example, if you are using a three-second eccentric, two-second 
hold, and three-second concentric, feel free to cut the reps in half. I’m not a huge fan 
of very slow training, but I do occasionally use it when I don’t feel like training heavy 
but I want to get a good pump. As a former combat athlete, I have a bias toward hard 
and fast strength training, and that has led me to many injuries. Due to necessity, I’m 
now open to other methods and use slower training (time under tension) to get results 
with less weight. Try this approach with these chest workouts, and I guarantee you 
fewer shoulder issues and better chest development.
I have suggested progressions for beginner and advanced trainees in almost all 
workouts. However, if you have not trained in more than two months and feel like you 
need to build a base or you are inexperienced in training, I strongly recommend you 
finish this two-week program before attempting any of the workouts in this chapter.
WEEK 1: DO EACH EXERCISE SEPARATELY 
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Bodyweight push-up (1-2 sets × 10-15 repetitions)
Diamond push-up (1-2 sets × 10-15 repetitions)
WEEK 2: DO EACH EXERCISE SEPARATELY 
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Bodyweight push-up (2-3 sets × 15-20 repetitions)
Lateral shuffle push-up (2-3 sets × 15-20 repetitions)
Diamond push-up (2-3 sets × 15-20 repetitions)

113Table 8.1 His Chest 1: Chest Training in the Park
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Dip \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_2124, 
F 08.01a, ID: 611304, here\Stand between 2 parallel bars. Holding 
on to the bars, lift your body, elbows 
extended. Lower your body until you feel 
a good stretch in your upper chest and 
shoulders. Extend your elbows to lift your 
body, contracting the triceps. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 5 × 25
2. Decline push-up \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_2107, 
F 08.01b, ID: 611305, here\Stand facing away from a bench or 
elevated platform. Place your feet on the 
edge of the bench or platform and put 
your hands on the ground, shoulder-width 
apart. Keeping your body straight, flex 
your elbows and lower your body until 
the chest is 4-5 inches (12 cm) from the 
ground. Extend your elbows to return to 
the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 20
3. Parallel bar 
push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_2129, 
F 08.01c, ID: 611306, here\Place your hands and feet on 2 paral -
lel bars, with your body in a push-up 
position. Flex your elbows to lower your 
chest to the level of the bars. Extend your 
elbows to return to the starting position. 
Repeat. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 20
Week 4 5 × 25HIS WORKOUTSHIS CHEST 1: CHEST TRAINING IN THE PARK
This 4-week bodyweight training program for the chest can be done at a park just as easily as 
at the gym. During my high school days, many of us lived on these types of workouts, spending 
hours talking, kidding around, and doing pull-ups, dips, push-ups, squats, lunges, stairs, and 
sprints. Sometimes we would hit just one body part; this workout represents that approach. It’s 
arranged so each exercise is done in succession with a little more rest between sets for maxi -
mum training efficiency. However feel free to rearrange the exercises, such as starting with dips 
ending with a diamond push-up flush. This is a perfect workout for people who are interested 
in chiseling the chest while also focusing on the triceps. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most 
people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have 
a considerable training base.
Equipment
Parallel bars, bench, or elevated platform
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).
(continued)


114Table 8.2 His Chest 2: Functional Chest
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. MB single-arm 
push-off\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8775, 
F 08.02a, ID: 611309, here\Get into a push-up position, with the left 
hand on the ground and the right hand on 
a medicine ball. Put your hands shoulder-
width apart. Flex your elbows to lower 
your chest to about an inch (3 cm) above 
the ground. Extend your elbows to lift your 
body back to the starting position. As your 
elbows reach full extension, the hand on 
the ground should push up, aggressively 
coming off the ground. As that hand lands, 
lower back into a push-up. Repeat. After 
completing the desired repetitions, switch 
to the other side.Week 1 2 × 6-10 per side
Week 2 3 × 8-12 per side
Week 3 4 × 12-15 per side
Week 4 5 × 15 per side
2. T push-up \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8792, 
F 08.02b, ID: 611310, here\Get into a push-up position. Flex your 
elbows to lower your chest. Once your 
chest reaches an inch (3 cm) above the 
ground, extend your elbows to lift your 
body back to the starting position. As your 
elbows reach full extension, lift your right 
arm, rotating your chest as you come into 
a side plank. Lower your right arm back to 
push-up position. Repeat. After complet -
ing the desired repetitions, switch to the 
other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per sideTable 8.1 His Chest 1: Chest Training in the Park (continued)
HIS CHEST 2: FUNCTIONAL CHEST
This 4-week program is a functional training program for the chest that uses body weight, medicine 
balls, and cables or bands. Although this is a functional workout, don’t think for an instant that 
it’s not hard and it won’t get you strong. I recommend you approach this workout as a normal 
strength program and perform the exercises in succession, with plenty of rest between each set 
and total concentration and effort. This way, you will be able to put maximum effort into each 
exercise and hit the repetition ranges. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while 
weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable 
training base.
Equipment
Medicine ball, band with handles (such as the JC Sports Band, Traveler, or Predator)
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
4. Diamond push-
up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_2110, 
F 08.01d, ID: 611307, here\Get into a push-up position with your 
index fingers and thumbs touching, form -
ing a diamond shape. Your hands can 
be on the ground or elevated. Flex your 
elbows to lower your chest until it’s just 
above your fingers. Extend your elbows to 
return to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 15


115Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
3. MB crossover 
push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8782, 
F 08.02c, ID: 611311, here\Get into a push-up position, with one hand 
on the ground and the other on a medicine 
ball. Put your hands shoulder-width apart. 
Flex your elbows to lower your chest until 
it is an inch (3 cm) above the ground. 
Extend your elbows to lift your body. As 
your elbows reach full extension, roll 
the medicine ball to the other hand and 
perform another push-up. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 8-10 per side
Week 2 3 × 10-12 per side
Week 3 4 × 8-10 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per side
4. MB hands-on-
ball push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8786, 
F 08.02d, ID: 611312, here\Get into a push-up position with both 
hands on a medicine ball. Flex your elbows 
to lower your chest to an inch (3 cm) 
above the ball. Extend your elbows to lift 
your body. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 8-10
Week 2 3 × 10-12
Week 3 4 × 12-15
Week 4 5 × 12-15
5. BP single-arm 
fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8794, 
F 08.02e, ID: 611313, here\Stand with a band attached to a point 
at chest height and to the right of you. 
Hold the handle in your right hand, your 
palm facing forward. Keeping your elbow 
slightly flexed and torso stable, bring 
your arm out and up to shoulder height, 
keeping your torso stable. Return your 
arm to the starting position. Repeat. After 
completing the desired repetitions, switch 
to the other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 15 per side
Week 4 5 × 20 per side
HIS CHEST 3: DB AND CABLE CHEST
This 4-week program is a heavy-duty dumbbell and cable program for the chest. If you don’t 
have a cable machine, you can use heavy-duty bands like the JC Predator Jr. You can also con -
sider substituting any dumbbell exercise for a barbell or even a machine exercise to change the 
workout. This is a high-volume workout perfect for gaining mass while using lighter loads and 
less time under tension. You can cut the repetitions to 5-8 if you are spending 5-7 seconds per 
rep. The volume of the flys also allows for good sculpting and separation of the chest muscles. 
Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only 
by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Incline bench, dumbbells, flat bench, double cable machine with attachments or bands, decline 
bench
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).


116Table 8.3 His Chest 3: Dumbbell and Cable Chest
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. DB incline 
bench press\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8801, 
F 08.03a, ID: 611315, here\Lie on an incline bench. Hold a dumbbell in 
each hand, your arms extended and palms 
facing forward. Flex your elbows and lower 
the dumbbells until you feel a good stretch 
in your upper chest. Extend your elbows to 
return to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
1b. Cable incline 
fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8824, 
F 08.03b, ID: 611316, here\Lie on an incline bench with a cable 
machine or bands anchored low on each 
side of you. Hold a handle in each hand, 
arms extended above your chest, palms 
facing one another. Keeping your elbows 
slightly flexed, lower the cables laterally 
until they are in a T position. Keeping your 
elbows slightly flexed, bring the cables 
back to the original position above your 
shoulders. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 15
2a. DB bench 
press\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8807, 
F 08.03c, ID: 611317, here\Lie on a flat bench. Hold a dumbbell in 
each hand, your arms extended and palms 
facing forward. Flex your elbows and lower 
the dumbbells until you feel a good stretch 
in your chest. Extend your elbows, push -
ing the dumbbells to the ceiling. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2b. Cable fly \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8821, 
F 08.03d, ID: 611318, here\Stand between 2 cable machines or 
anchored bands and hold a handle in each 
hand. Extend your arms from your sides 
in a T position, palms facing the front. 
Keeping your elbows slightly flexed, bring 
the cables together in front of you at chest 
level. Once your hands touch in front 
of you, return to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10 
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 15
3a. DB decline 
bench press\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8811, 
F 08.03e, ID: 611319, here\Lie on a decline bench. Hold a dumbbell 
in each hand, arms extended and palms 
facing forward. Flex your elbows and lower 
the dumbbells until you feel a good stretch 
in your upper chest. Extend your elbows to 
return to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8


117Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
3b. Cable decline 
fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8823, 
F 08.03f, ID: 611320, here\Stand between 2 high cable columns or 
anchored bands. Hold a cable handle in 
each hand, arms extended out from your 
sides in a Y position and palms facing the 
front. Keeping your elbows slightly flexed, 
bring the cables together in front of you at 
hip level. Once your hands touch in front 
of you, return to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 15
HIS CHEST 4: OLD-SCHOOL SUPERSET CHEST
This workout comes from the old Nautilus, Arthur Jones, and Mike Mentzer days of the 1970s. 
It is arranged into what was called pre-exhaust pairs, going from the isolation exercise to the 
compound exercise with no rest. The last 2 weeks of this program are so exhausting, I use either 
week singularly once in a while just to kill the chest. I never use weeks 3 or 4 for more than 
2 straight weeks, and never twice in one week. The idea is to pre-exhaust the muscles with a 
single-joint movement, then crush it with a compound movement (the opposite of the traditional 
bodybuilding volumizing approach of compound to isolation). I prefer to use machines for as 
many exercises as possible so no energy is required to balance or stabilize the weight: All the 
energy goes to challenging the muscle to grow. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, 
while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a con -
siderable training base.
Equipment
Pec deck machine, chest press machine, adjustable incline bench, dumbbells, elevated items for 
deep partial push-up (e.g., hex dumbbells, boxes, benches, push-up handles), cable machine 
(optional), Smith machine (optional)
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).
(continued)Table 8.4 His Chest 4: Old-School Superset Chest
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Pec deck 
machine chest fly 
(can use cables or 
bands instead)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1294, 
F 08.04a, ID: 611322, here\Sit in the pec deck machine with your 
arms open and elbows slightly bent. 
Squeeze your chest and bring the handles 
together. Return to the starting position. 
After completing the desired repetitions, 
go straight to the compound exercise with 
no rest. Week 1 2 × 12-15
Week 2 3 × 10-12
Week 3 4 × 12-15
Week 4 5 × 10-15


118Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1b. Machine chest 
press (can use 
Smith machine 
instead)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1834, 
F 08.04b, ID: 611323, here\For this exercise, use a weight that allows 
you to complete 20-25 repetitions when 
fresh. Sit in the chest press machine with 
your elbows bent, feeling a good stretch 
in your chest. Press the weight away from 
you until your arms are fully extended, 
then return to the starting position. 
Repeat. After completing the desired rep -
etitions, rest 2-3 min and start the 1a–1b 
sequence again. Week 1 2 × 10-12
Week 2 3 × 10-12
Week 3 4 × 8-12
Week 4 5 × 8-12
5-10 MIN REST
2a. DB incline 
chest fly (can use 
cables instead)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8835, 
F 08.04c, ID: 611324, here\Lie on an incline bench and hold a dumb -
bell in each hand. Extend your arms above 
your chest, palms facing one another. 
Keeping your elbows slightly flexed, lower 
the dumbbells laterally until they are in a 
T position and you feel a good stretch in 
your upper chest. Keeping your elbows 
slightly flexed, bring the dumbbells back 
to the original position above your shoul -
ders. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 12-15
Week 2 3 × 10-12
Week 3 4 × 12-15
Week 4 5 × 10-15
2b. Barbell incline 
bench press 
(can use Smith 
machine instead)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8842, 
F 08.04d, ID: 611325, here\For this exercise, use a weight that allows 
you to complete 20-25 repetitions when 
fresh. Lie on an incline bench holding a 
barbell in both hands. Lie on an incline 
bench holding a barbell with your hands 
shoulder-width apart and extend your 
arms. Lower the barbell toward your upper 
chest until you feel a good stretch on your 
upper chest. Extend your elbows, push -
ing the barbell to the starting position. 
Repeat. After completing the desired rep -
etitions, rest 2-3 min and start the 2a–2b 
sequence again.Week 1 2 × 10-12
Week 2 3 × 10-12
Week 3 4 × 8-12
Week 4 5 × 8-12
Finisher: deep 
partial push-up 
flush\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8846, 
F 08.04e, ID: 611326, here\Place 2 items (e.g., hex dumbbells, boxes, 
benches, push-up handles) on the ground 
a little wider than shoulder-width apart. 
Assume a push-up position with your 
hands resting on the items. Perform a 
deep push-up to get a good stretch in the 
chest muscles. Extend your elbows to 
come up about halfway, then lower your 
body into the deep push-up. Repeat.Weeks 1 
to 42-3 sets to 
failure
Table 8.4 His Chest 4: Old-School Superset Chest (continued)


119Table 8.5 His Chest 5: Traditional Bodybuilding Chest
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Barbell incline 
bench press (or 
machine incline 
chest press)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8842, 
F 08.05a, ID: 611328, here\Lie on an incline bench holding a barbell in 
both hands. Lie on an incline bench hold -
ing a barbell with your hands shoulder-
width apart and extend your arms. Lower 
the barbell toward your upper chest until 
you feel a good stretch on your upper 
chest. Extend your elbows, pushing the 
barbell to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 8
Week 3 4 × 8
Week 4 5 × 4-6
2. DB bench press 
(or machine chest 
press)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8807, 
F 08.05b, ID: 611329, here\Lie on a bench and hold a dumbbell in 
each hand. Extend your arms, palms 
facing forward. Lower the dumbbells until 
your elbows reach 90 degrees. Extend 
your elbows, pushing the dumbbells 
toward the ceiling. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 8
Week 3 4 × 8
Week 4 5 × 4-6
3. Weighted dip (or 
machine equiva -
lent)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0306, 
F 08.05c, ID: 611330, here\Stand between 2 parallel bars. Attach 
a belt with chains and weight plates to 
add the appropriate intensity. Holding on 
to the handles, lift your body with your 
elbows extended. Lower your body until 
you feel a good stretch in your upper chest 
and shoulders. Extend your elbows to lift 
your body, contracting the triceps. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
HIS CHEST 5: TRADITIONAL BODYBUILDING CHEST
This 4-week program is a traditional old-school chest program. Back in the day, when we wanted 
to get strong and big, this is the kind of workout we did. This workout has the benefit of the 
strength gains one gets from the heavy loads and low reps, but it also has the volumizing effects 
of the high rep range shaping and flushing protocols. People who want to grind a simple, yet 
effective workout will love this one—it’s a no-brainer! This is not a short, intense workout; doing 
the sets in succession, with good weight and getting plenty of rest, takes time. When I perform 
this workout, it takes me about 2 hours to get ample rest to hit big numbers. At my age, I start 
feeling a little overtrained at weeks 3 to 4, so monitor your volumes and aches and pains. Weeks 
1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more 
advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Incline bench, barbell, weight bench, dumbbells, parallel bars, weight belt and weight plates, 
double cable machine or bands, chest press machine (optional)
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).
(continued)

120Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
4. DB incline chest 
fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8835, 
F 08.05d, ID: 611331, here\Lie on an incline bench. Hold a dumbbell 
in each hand, your arms extended out 
from your chest and palms facing one 
another. Lower the dumbbells laterally into 
a T position until you feel a good stretch 
in your upper chest and shoulders. Return 
the dumbbells to the starting position. 
Repeat.Weeks 1-2 2 × 10
Weeks 3-4 3 × 12
Finisher: cable 
chest 3D 21 fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8837, 
F 08.05e, ID: 611332, here\Stand between 2 cable machines set at 
chest height. Hold a handle in each hand, 
your arms extended to your sides in a 
T position, your palms facing the front. 
Split a chest fly into 3 ranges: the upper 
half (arms apart) to the halfway point, 
the lower half (to the halfway point until 
the arms come together), and the full 
range. Keeping your elbows slightly bent, 
squeeze your chest and bring the handles 
halfway. Return to the upper half, with 
your arms apart, and perform 7 reps. 
Perform 7 reps from halfway until your 
hands touch. Finish with 7 full-range chest 
flys. That’s one set. Weeks 1-2 2 × 21
Weeks 3-4 3 × 21
Table 8.5 His Chest 5: Traditional Bodybuilding Chest (continued)

121Table 8.6 Her Chest 1: Band Chest Toning
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. BP staggered 
stance incline 
press\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1160, 
F 08.06a, ID: 611334, here\Stand facing away from 2 low-anchored 
bands or cables. Hold the handles by 
your chest (palms down) so you feel a 
comfortable stretch in your chest. Assume 
a staggered stance or a split-squat posi -
tion. Extend your elbows up and out in 
front of you at about 45 degrees until your 
arms are fully extended, then return to the 
starting position. Repeat. Alternate legs 
with each set. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 4 × 15
1b. BP staggered 
stance incline fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1163, 
F 08.06b, ID: 611335, here\Stand facing away from 2 low-anchored 
bands or cables. Hold the handles and 
open your arms in a T position. Slightly 
flex your elbows (palms to the front) so 
you feel a comfortable stretch in your 
chest. Assume a staggered stance or a 
split-squat position. Keeping your elbows 
slightly flexed, bring the handles up and 
out in front of you at about 45 degrees 
until your hands touch, then return to the 
starting position. Repeat. Alternate legs 
with each set. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 4 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
2a. BP staggered 
stance press\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1169, 
F 08.06c, ID: 611336, here\Stand facing away from 2 bands or cables 
set at chest height. Hold handles by your 
chest (palms down) so you feel a comfort -
able stretch in your chest. Assume a 
staggered stance or a split-squat position. 
Extend your elbows out in front of you 
until your arms are fully extended, then 
return to the starting position. Repeat. 
Alternate legs with each set. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 4 × 15
HER CHEST 1: BAND CHEST TONING
This is a 4-week band-only training program for the chest. It is arranged in three 2-exercise 
circuits for maximum efficiency chest training. However feel free to rearrange the exercises and 
perform them in succession if you have more time to train and want to use heavier loads and 
focus on strength. This workout is perfect for focusing on the chest while also getting excellent 
core training. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be 
attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Bands with handles (such as JC Sport or JC Predator)
Notes
Alternate the forward leg with each set.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).HER WORKOUTS
(continued)

122Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. BP staggered 
stance fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1173, 
F 08.06d, ID: 611337, here\Stand between 2 bands set at chest 
height. Hold the handles and open your 
arms in a T position. Slightly flex your 
elbows (palms to the front) so you feel a 
comfortable stretch in your chest. Assume 
a staggered stance or a split-squat posi -
tion. Keeping your elbows slightly flexed, 
bring the handles together until your 
hands touch, then return to the starting 
position. Repeat. Alternate legs with each 
set.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 4 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
FINISHER
1a. BP alternating 
decline fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1207, 
F 08.06e, ID: 611338, here\Stand facing away from two bands or 
cables secured in a position well above 
your head. Hold the handles with your 
arms in an open T position, elbows slightly 
flexed (palms to the front). Assume a 
staggered stance or split-squat position. 
Bring your right arm forward and perform 
a single-arm fly. As the right arm returns 
to the starting position, bring the left 
arm forward to perform a single-arm fly. 
Repeat. Alternate legs with each set.Week 1 2 × 10 per 
side
Week 2 2 × 15 per 
side
Week 3 4 × 10 per 
side
Week 4 4 × 15 per 
side
1b. BP staggered 
stance decline fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1209, 
F 08.06f, ID: 611339, here\Stand facing away from 2 bands or cables 
set as high as possible. Hold handles with 
your arms open in a T position. Slightly 
flex your elbows (palms to the front) so 
you feel a comfortable stretch in your 
chest. Assume a staggered stance or a 
split-squat position. Keeping your elbows 
slightly flexed, bring the handles out in 
front of you and down at about 45 degrees 
until your hands touch, then return to the 
starting position. Repeat. Alternate legs 
with each set. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 4 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
1c. Partial dive 
bomber (cobra) 
push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1134, 
F 08.06g, ID: 612586, here\Begin in a push-up position, your hands 
and feet both shoulder-width apart. Push 
your hips up so they are higher than your 
shoulders. Flex your elbows to perform a 
push-up so your chest gently grazes the 
floor. Keep your legs straight. Arch your 
back and extend your arms as your hips 
lower to the floor. Reverse the movement 
to come back to the elevated hip position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 4 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 4 × 20
Table 8.6 Her Chest 1: Band Chest Toning (continued)

123Table 8.7 Her Chest 2: Functional Chest
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. BP staggered 
stance alternating 
press (alternate 
legs each set)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1144, 
F 08.07a, ID: 611341, here\Stand between 2 bands set at chest height, 
handles in hands and by your chest (palms 
down) so you feel a comfortable stretch 
in your chest. Assume a staggered stance 
or a split-squat position. Extend your 
right elbow and keep the left by the chest. 
Extend your left elbow, while your right 
hand comes back to the side of the chest. 
Repeat alternating presses. Alternate legs 
with each set. Week 1 2 × 10 per 
side
Week 2 2 × 15 per 
side
Week 3 4 × 12 per 
side
Week 4 4 × 15 per 
side
2. SB hands-on-
ball push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1123, 
F 08.07b, ID: 611342, here\Get into a push-up position with your 
hands on the sides of the stability ball, 
your fingers pointing toward the floor. Flex 
your elbows to lower your chest to the 
stability ball. Once your chest reaches the 
stability ball, extend your elbows to push 
yourself back up. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 4 × 12
3. Suspension fly \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0283, 
F 08.07c, ID: 611343, here\Using a suspension system (e.g., SBT), 
hold on to both handles and get into an 
inclined, suspended push-up position. 
Keeping your elbows slightly flexed, pull 
the handles laterally out to your sides 
in a T position. Once the handles are at 
your sides, contract your pecs, keeping 
your elbows slightly flexed and bring the 
handles back medially in front. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 2 × 10
Week 3 4 × 8
Week 4 4 × 10
4. Dive-bomber 
(cobra) push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1131, 
F 08.07d, ID: 611344, here\Begin in a push-up position, your hands 
and feet both shoulder-width apart. Push 
your hips up so you resemble an inverted 
V. Flex your elbows to perform a push-up 
so your chest gently grazes the floor. Keep 
your legs straight. Arch your back and 
extend your arms as your hips lower to the 
floor. Reverse the movement to come back 
to an inverted V. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 15
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 4 × 15
(continued)HER CHEST 2: FUNCTIONAL CHEST
This 4-week program is a functional training program for anyone looking to tone and acquire 
excellent function and core strength. Although it is presented in a succession format, you can 
certainly try it as a circuit, but don’t be surprised if you can’t finish the prescribed number of 
reps at the end. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be 
attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Bands with handles, stability ball, suspension system
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).


124Table 8.8 Her Chest 3: Unilateral DB and Cable Chest
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. DB incline 
single-arm press 
(can use incline 
chest machine)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1110, 
F 08.08a, ID: 611347, here\Lie on an incline bench. Hold a dumbbell 
in your right hand, your arm extended 
and your palm facing forward. Lower the 
dumbbell until you feel a good stretch in 
the right chest area. Extend your elbow 
to press the dumbbell up. Repeat. After 
completing the desired reps with your 
right hand, begin the 1b exercise with 
your right hand with no rest.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 12 per side
1b. Cable incline 
single-arm fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1118, 
F 08.08b, ID: 611349, here\Sit on an incline bench with a low pulley 
or band to your right, holding the handle 
in you right hand, your palm facing for -
ward. Keeping your elbow slightly flexed 
and your torso stable, bring your arm 
out and up to shoulder height. Bring your 
arm back to the starting position. Repeat. 
After completing the desired reps with 
your right hand, rest 2-3 min and repeat 
the 1a–1b sequence with your left hand.Week 1 2 × 12 per side
Week 2 3 × 15 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 15 per sideExercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
Diamond push-up 
(elevate if needed 
to complete the 
rep range pre -
scribed)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1140, 
F 08.07e, ID: 611345, here\Get into a push-up position, with your 
hands underneath your chest so your 
index fingers and thumbs touch, forming 
a diamond. Flex your elbows to lower the 
chest. Once your chest is an inch (3 cm) 
above the floor, extend your elbows to lift 
your body. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 4 × 12
Table 8.7 Her Chest 2: Functional Chest (continued)
HER CHEST 3: UNILATERAL DB AND CABLE CHEST
This 4-week specialized program with some of my Tri Fitness competitors. It focuses on the upper 
chest and shoulders, using the more popular compound-to-isolation prefatigue format, a reverse 
of the traditional prefatigue format. I also have used a version of this workout workout with 
some of my male fitness clients who want to really focus on chest development for their model -
ing shoots. This workout uses two-arm training and supersets 2 exercises without rest, but even 
then, it does take a little time since you are finishing each superset with your right hand before 
going on to your left hand. The second superset is a simple two-arm grind that sets you up for 
the 3D finisher. Although the single arm work slows you down for a bit, if you keep your focus 
without getting distracted, you can complete this one in well under 60 min. Weeks 1 and 2 will 
be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced 
individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Incline bench, dumbbells, cable machine with handle attachment or bands
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).

125Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
REST 5 MIN
2a: DB two-arm 
incline bench 
press (can use 
chest machine)Lie on an incline bench. Hold a dumbbell 
in each hand with your arms extended 
and your palms facing forward. Lower the 
dumbbells until you feel a good stretch 
in the chest area. Extend your elbows to 
press the dumbbells up. Repeat. After 
completing the desired reps, begin the 2b 
exercise with no rest in between 2a and 
2b.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 12 per side
2b: Cable two-arm 
incline flyStand with a low pulley set of JC Bands 
behind you at about shin height. Hold 
the handles in your hands with your 
arms open and palms facing forward at 
hip height. Keeping your elbows slightly 
flexed and torso stable, bring your arms 
up and in front of you to shoulder height, 
hinging only at the shoulders. Bring 
your arms back to the starting position. 
Repeat. Rest 2-3 minutes before starting 
the 2a, 2b superset again.Week 1 2 × 12 per side
Week 2 3 × 15 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 15 per side
Finisher: DB incline 
press 3D 21\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1107, 
F 08.08e, ID: 611352, here\Lie on an incline bench and hold a dumb -
bell in each hand, your arms extended out 
from your chest and your palms facing 
one another. Split an incline chest press 
into 3 ranges: the lower half (arms apart 
in the low position to halfway point), the 
upper half (halfway point until arms are 
extended), and the full range. Lower the 
dumbbells laterally until you feel a good 
stretch in your upper chest and shoulders. 
Squeeze your chest and bring the dumb -
bells halfway up, repeating for 7 reps. 
Then perform 7 reps from halfway until 
your arms are fully extended. Finish with 
7 full-range incline chest presses. That’s 
one set.Weeks 1 
to 42-3 sets of 21


126Table 8.9 Her Chest 4: Prefatigued Hybrid Chest
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Machine chest 
press\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1624, 
F 08.09a, ID: 611354, here\Sit upright on the chest press machine 
with a handle in each hand at the sides of 
your chest. Extend your elbows and press 
the weight forward until your elbows 
reach full extension. Flex your elbows, 
bringing the weight back until you feel a 
good stretch in your chest. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 8
Week 3 4 × 6
Week 4 5 × 6
1b. Suspension 
fly to push-up 
superset\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0282, 
F 08.09b, ID: 611355, here\Using a suspension system (e.g., SBT), 
hold on to both handles and get into an 
inclined, suspended T position. Keep your 
arms out and your elbows slightly flexed. 
Bring your hands together in front of you 
to perform the chest fly movement. Open 
your arms to the original T position and 
repeat for the desired reps. Once done 
with the fly, go right to a push-up, extend -
ing and flexing your elbows for the desired 
number of push-ups. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8 + 10
Week 2 2 × 8 + 12
Week 3 4 × 8-10 + 12-15
Week 4 5 × 10 + 15
2a. Cable fly \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1192, 
F 08.09c, ID: 611356, here\Stand between 2 cable machines. Hold a 
cable handle in each hand. Extend your 
arms to your sides, palms facing the 
front in a T-position. Keeping your elbows 
slightly flexed, bring the cables together 
in front of you at chest level. Once your 
hands touch in front of you, bring them 
back to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 2 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 12
HER CHEST 4: PREFATIGUED HYBRID CHEST
This 4-week program uses a hybrid format with some isolation-to-compound and compound-
to-isolation prefatigue. As if that was not enough, I threw in an oldie but goodie as a finisher 
with a pullover flush. I used this workout about 19 years ago with female bodybuilders and male 
professional wrestlers. This workout really has it all, from a bodybuilding backbone to a functional 
training overtone. My personal training clients love this workout for the chest, even if we do no 
more than week 2, a great addition to training for other body parts. As usual, weeks 1 and 2 will 
be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced 
individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Chest press machine, suspension system, double cable machine, medicine ball, bench, dumbbell
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.


127Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. MB hands-on-
ball push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1102, 
F 08.09d, ID: 611357, here\Assume a plank position, both hands on a 
firm medicine ball and feet shoulder-width 
apart. Flex your elbows and lower your 
chest to the ball. Extend your elbows to 
return to the starting position. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 2 × 8
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12 
Finisher: DB 
pullover\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0103, 
F 08.09e, ID: 611358, here\Lie perpendicularly on a flat bench and 
hold the ends of a dumbbell in your hands. 
Position the dumbbell over your chest, 
with your elbows slightly bent. Keep -
ing your elbows slightly bent, lower the 
dumbbell over and beyond the head until 
the upper arms are in line with the torso. 
Pull the dumbbell up and over the chest to 
the starting position. Repeat. Rest 2-3 min 
between sets.Weeks 1 to 4 3 sets to failure 
(10-20 rep 
range)
(continued)Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).
HER CHEST 5: BREAKDOWN CHEST
This insane workout is used as a shocker to bring your chest out of a funk or plateau. A profes -
sional female fitness competitor shared this workout with me. This is another workout I’ve used 
it with both men and women. Normally it is used as a one-time workout, perhaps performed 
twice 7-10 days apart. This workout will leave you spent for days; even if you feel recovered 3 
or 4 days after, you are not. Give yourself another 2 or 3 days. I cannot emphasize complete 
recovery  enough—don’t repeat this workout until you’ve waited 7-10 days and don’t do more 
than 2 of these in a 3- or 4-week span. The 50  is in the name because that is the total number of 
reps you are aiming for in each breakdown set, and you have 9 of those! It takes a few attempts 
to get it right, but once you do, this is an insane workout. Depending on what machine you use 
and how the plates are arranged, you may need to move the pin up four to six times, reducing 
the weight each time to complete more than the 50 reps.
Equipment
Smith machine, chest press machine, pec deck machine, bench, dumbbell
Notes
Beginners should rest 7-10 days after this program before resuming chest training. Advanced 
athletes should rest 7-10 days after this program, repeat it, rest another 7-10 days, and then 
Table 8.10 Her Chest 5: Breakdown Chest
Exercise Photo Instructions Sets × reps
Smith machine 
incline chest press 
breakdown 50\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1511, 
F 08.10a, ID: 611360, here\Sit on an incline bench set up inside a Smith 
machine. Set the weight so your arms are extended 
and aligned vertically with your upper chest. Flex 
your elbows, bringing the weight back until you feel 
a good stretch in your chest. Repeat. Start with a 
weight you can do about 15 times and perform to 
failure. Drop the weight 15%-20% and rep out to 
failure. Continue to drop the weight 15%-20% and 
rep out to failure until you complete more than 50 
reps. Rest 3-5 min between each set.3 × 50 total


JC’s Total Body Transformation 128
Exercise Photo Instructions Sets × reps
REST 5 MIN
Machine chest 
press breakdown 
50\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1624, 
F 08.10b, ID: 611361, hereSit upright on the chest press machine with a 
handle in each hand at the sides of your chest. 
Extend your elbows and press the weight forward 
until your elbows reach full extension. Flex your 
elbows, bringing the weight back until you feel a 
good stretch in your chest. Repeat. Start with a 
weight you can do about 15 times and perform to 
failure. Drop the weight 15%-20% and rep out to 
failure. Continue to drop the weight 15%-20% and 
rep out to failure until you complete more than 50 
reps. Rest 3-5 min between each set.3 × 50 total
REST 5 MIN
Pec deck machine 
chest fly break -
down 50\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_1299, 
F 08.10c, ID: 611362, here\Sit upright on the pec deck machine with your 
elbows flexed at 90 degrees and resting on the 
elbow pads. Squeeze your elbows together until 
they touch or you feel a maximum squeeze in your 
chest. Open your arms until you feel a comfort -
able stretch in your chest and repeat. Start with a 
weight you can do about 15 times and perform to 
failure. Drop the weight 15%-20% and rep out to 
failure. Continue to drop the weight 15%-20% and 
rep out to failure until you complete more than 50 
reps. Rest 3-5 min between each set.3 × 50 total
REST 5 MIN
Finisher: DB 
pullover\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0103, 
F 08.10d, ID: 611363, here\Lie perpendicularly on a flat bench and hold the 
ends of a dumbbell in your hands. Position the 
dumbbell over your chest with your elbows slightly 
bent. Keeping your elbows slightly bent, lower 
the dumbbell over and beyond your head until 
your upper arms are in line with the torso. Pull 
the dumbbell up and over the chest to the starting 
position. Repeat. Rest 3 min between each set.3 sets to 
failure 
(10-20 rep 
range)
Table 8.10 Her Chest 5: Breakdown Chest (continued)
resume chest training.
Summary
Remember that this big volume does not have to come with gut-wrenching intensity 
that will mess up your joints. You can take your time, slow down the movement, 
squeeze your muscles, and spare your joints. This is especially true if you are not in a 
sport that requires insane strength and power. If you just want to be healthy and look 
great, work on form and the mind-muscle connection, get your pump, and get out 
of the gym. Don’t stay in the gym just to do junk volume. That’s not the way to get 
results, and it’s a direct route to injuries. Trust me, the crazy high volume and high 
intensity catch up to you when you are 40 or 50, and then it’s too late. Train your chest, 
spare the shoulders, and be happy.
 

129
CHAPTER 9
Back
This chapter is last in the body transformation section because it is the most 
unique. Although the back is the biggest region of the body and has some of 
the largest musculature, it often is neglected in training, taking a back seat to 
the chest, abs, arms, and quads. Because of this neglect, the back, especially the lower 
and mid back, also is one of the areas most prone to injury, even as it protects and 
stabilizes one of the most important neurological systems of the body. The back sup-
ports the core and creates the biggest bridge of force transfer in the body. During the 
transfer of force between the hips and shoulders, the back and anterior core muscles 
assume much of the heavy lifting. The back serves as the anchor point for the body’s 
limbs. The diagonal orientation of the latissimus dorsi make the back a key player in 
generating rotational power. This chapter covers the IHP way to train this important 
muscle system.
In terms of visual appeal, the shoulders frame the upper body and give the illusion 
of width, but the back provides the V-shaped physique all men are looking for as well 
as the hourglass shape women are looking for. However, width is not enough when 
it comes to the back. A wide back without depth does not look complete, yet few will 
actually know what is missing. Therefore, paying attention to the V without looking at 
the other parts also leaves you short of the optimal-looking back. Women may not be 
looking for the width men are, but they are looking for a muscularly toned and lean 
back, free of obvious fat around the bra strap. It’s difficult to see your own back, so 
unless you have special mirrors, it’s hard to analyze and critique it. Therefore, from an 
aesthetic perspective, the back is important, yet it is undervalued and misunderstood.
In terms of size, the major muscle in the back is the big latissimus dorsi. However, 
the trapezius and paraspinals are big and important muscles as well. The traditional, 
simplistic way to look at back training is to do a lot of full-range-of-motion pull-
downs, pull-ups, and rows. Although this approach will yield results, contemporary 
bodybuilders use a more specialized approach to back training. The workouts in this 
chapter take into account the old tried-and-true approaches but also bring a new 
perspective to back training. Let’s go over a few approaches that are trending in the 
world of bodybuilding today.
For years, the traditional rule all bodybuilders followed was full-range-of-motion 
training. Recently, I’m seeing more partial-range-of-motion training. Although I see this 
approach applied to all body parts, back training brings it to center stage in exercises 
such as bent-over rows, in which many bodybuilders stabilize their back positions at 
about 45 degrees instead of 90 degrees and row to the belly instead of the chest. The 
back is also being separated into more sections than any other body part and tied in 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 130
with other muscle systems. For example, the posterior deltoid is worked during back 
and shoulder workouts; therefore, the back gets a double dip when the shoulders are 
trained. The same thing goes for the trapezius muscle (or traps), which is also part 
of shoulder training and technically part of the back as well (the lower fibers of the 
traps go below the middle of the back). The lower back is also part of back training 
but is worked with the hips during exercises such as deadlifts and extensions as well 
as bent-over rows. The development of the lower back is important to the aesthetic 
quality of the back because it ties the lower back to the lower fibers of the lats. This is 
also a huge factor in the rehabilitation and prehabilitation of lumbar injuries.
Finally, the entire paraspinal musculature provides a huge amount of depth to the 
back and is one of the reasons we see so much spinal flexion and big movements of 
the scapulae during rowing motions and partial deadlifts.
These are some general observations that illustrate just how complex the back is, how 
much training it can take, how we incorporate it into the training of other body parts, 
and why we are seeing some of these trends in training. This chapter encompasses all 
these factors into the workouts so you don’t have to worry about them.
These workouts are snapshots of three to four weeks, and the possibilities and per -
mutations are endless. You can change the rep range, combine workouts, and mix and 
match different workouts on different days to create unique programs that better fit 
your likes and needs. You can change the intensity by simply manipulating reps and 
time under tension. For example, keep the load of an exercise the same, cut the reps in 
half, but slow the movement to a two-second contraction (up), two-second hold (peak 
contraction), and three-second eccentric (lower the weight). As mentioned in chapter 2 
and at the beginning of part II (transformation workouts), this time under tension will 
give you great muscular development and minimize the wear and tear on the joints 
due to the lighter loads. Other than for intense athletic performance for which high 
strength levels have to be developed and displayed, muscular development does not 
have to come at the high cost of tearing up joints. If you just want to look good and be 
fit and strong, you don’t have to tear up your body!
I have suggested progressions for beginners and advanced trainees in all work -
outs. However, if you have not trained in more than a month and feel like you need 
to develop a base or are inexperienced in training, I strongly recommend you finish 
the two-week program here before attempting any of the workouts in this chapter.
WEEK 1: DO EACH EXERCISE SEPARATELY
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Perform each exercise separately.
Dumbbell bent-over row (use a dumbbell that weighs 15%-25% of your body weight: 
1-2 sets × 10-15 repetitions
Cable single-arm high row (use about 25%-35% of your body weight): 1-2 sets × 10-15 
repetitions
WEEK 2: DO EACH EXERCISE SEPARATELY
Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Dumbbell bent-over row: 2-3 sets × 15-20 repetitions
Cable single-arm high row: 2-3 sets × 15-20 repetitions
Pull-down (use 40%-60% of your body weight): 2-3 sets × 15-20 repetitions

131HIS BACK 1: BACK TRAINING IN THE PARK
This 4-week program can be done in a park and will get you super strong. This is the kind of 
workout my friends and I did in our younger days. Gymnasts thrive with this kind of movement, 
and look at the width of their backs and the size of their arms. If you are not strong on pull-ups, 
don’t worry; this workout will make you strong. With just a portable pull-up bar on a door in 
your house, you can develop a very strong set of arms and a wide and strong back. Weeks 1 
and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more 
advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Pull-up bar
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).HIS WORKOUTS
Table 9.1 His Back 1: Back Training in the Park
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Pull-up (medium 
grip)
(you may use a 
band or partner to 
assist you)
Hang on a pull-up bar with your hands 
shoulder-width apart and palms facing for -
ward with both elbows extended. Flex your 
elbows and pull your body up until your 
chin is above the bar. Lower your body to 
the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8-12
Week 2 3 × 8-12
Week 3 4 × 8-10
Week 4 5 × 8-10
2. Isometric at top 
(chin above bar) 
(medium grip)
Hang on a pull-up bar with your hands 
shoulder-width apart and palms facing for -
ward with both elbows extended. Flex your 
elbows and pull your body up until your 
chin is above the bar. Hold that position 
for the time indicated. Lower your body to 
the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 5 sec.
Week 2 3 × 8-10 sec.
Week 3 4 × 12-15 sec.
Week 4 5 × 15-20 sec.
3. Isometric  
at midway 
(halfway down) 
(medium grip)
Hang on a pull-up bar with your hands 
shoulder-width apart and palms facing 
forward with both elbows extended. Flex 
your elbows and pull your body up until 
your elbows are at 90 degrees. Hold that 
position for the time indicated. Lower your 
body to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 5 sec.
Week 2 3 × 8-10 sec.
Week 3 4 × 12-15 sec.
Week 4 5 × 15-20 sec.
(continued)

132HIS BACK 2: BAND-ONLY BACK WORKOUT
This is a 4-week band-only program. I recommend using a set of heavy-duty exercise bands, 
such as the JC Predator or Predator Jr. The workout is arranged in two 2-exercise circuits for 
maximum training efficiency. However, you can perform this workout in succession if you want 
to rest more between exercises and increase your loading intensity. This is a perfect workout for 
home or while traveling. It’s also a great exercise for a young person who wants to start strength 
training at home. Treat these exercises with the same intensity you treat any machine exercises, 
and the results will be the same: great tone and strength. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for 
most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who 
have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Heavy-duty exercise bands with handles (such as JC Predator or Predator Jr.), stable object to 
anchor bands
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
4. Wide-grip 
eccentric pull-upHang on a pull-up bar with your hands 
wider than shoulder-width apart and palms 
facing forward with both elbows extended. 
Flex your elbows and pull your body up 
until your chin is above the bar. Hold that 
position for the time indicated. Lower your 
body to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 3 sec.
Week 2 3 × 5 sec.
Week 3 4 × 5 sec.
Week 4 5 × 5 sec.Table 9.1 His Back 1: Back Training in the Park (continued)
Table 9.2 His Back 2: Band-Only Back Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. BP staggered 
stance single-arm 
compound row
Stand in a staggered stance, your left 
leg forward. Hold the handle of a band 
secured at knee level in your right hand. 
Use a neutral grip. Hinge at the hips and 
move your shoulders forward until your 
torso is parallel to the ground, and you 
feel a good stretch in your hamstrings. 
Simultaneously extend the hips and row 
with your right arm until your right hand is 
next to the right side of your ribs. Repeat 
for the desired number of repetitions, then 
switch to the other arm.Week 1 2 × 8 per arm
Week 2 3 × 10 per arm
Week 3 4 × 12 per arm
Week 4 5 × 10 per arm


133HIS BACK 3: HYBRID BACK STRENGTH
This 4-week program integrates the best of the best—function and pure strength. This is a great 
workout for those interested in getting good muscle and great core strength they can transfer 
into sports. Although this workout can be done in a circuit format, I recommend you treat this 
like a typical strength workout and take your time between each set. This approach will allow you 
to really develop the strength and size this workout can deliver. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough 
for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals 
who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Pull-up bar, wheel, suspension system, cable machine or band with handles, dumbbells
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1b. BP parallel 
stance bent-over 
mid row
Stand in a parallel stance, your feet 
shoulder-width apart and knees slightly 
bent. Hold the handles of a band secured 
at waist level. Use a pronated grip. Hinge 
at the hips and lean your shoulders 
forward until your torso is parallel to the 
ground, your arms are straight overhead, 
and you feel a good stretch in your ham -
strings. Holding the bent-over position, 
pull the handles with your elbows out by 
your sides (same upper-body motion as a 
pull-up) until your elbows are fully flexed 
and by your sides. Extend your elbows, 
straightening your arms in front. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 12
2a. BP staggered 
stance single-arm 
high-to-low row
Stand in a staggered stance, left leg for -
ward. Hold the handle of a band secured 
at a high position in your right hand. Use a 
neutral grip. With your right arm extended, 
flex your elbows and row the band to the 
right side of your ribs. Extend your arm 
to the starting position. Repeat for the 
desired number of repetitions, then switch 
to the other side.Week 1 2 × 8 
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 10
2b. Band swim Stand in a parallel stance, your feet 
shoulder-width apart and knees slightly 
bent. Hold the handles of a band secured 
at a high point above your head. Use a 
pronated grip. Keeping your arms fully 
extended through the entire motion, 
pull the bands down while flexing your 
torso until your hands are near your back 
pockets and the bands are touching the 
shoulders. Return to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 15


134Table 9.3 His Back 3: Hybrid Back Strength
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Wide-grip 
V-pull-up
Hang on a pull-up bar with your hands 
just outside of shoulder-width apart, your 
palms facing forward and both elbows 
extended. Flex your elbows and pull your 
body up and to the right until your chin 
is above your right hand. Return to the 
hanging position and pull your body up 
and to the left until your chin is above your 
left hand. That’s one repetition. Repeat to 
both sides.Week 1 2 × 2
Week 2 3 × 3
Week 3 4 × 4
Week 4 5 × 5
2. Wheel roll-out 
from knees
Hold the wheel with both hands while bal -
ancing in a plank position on your knees. 
Keep your abs tight and arms straight 
during the entire motion. Roll the wheel 
out in front of you until your arms are 
straight and your body is perfectly parallel 
to the ground. Pull your arms back to roll 
the wheel and return to the plank position. 
Repeat. (Instead of the wheel, you can use 
a stability ball or suspension system.)Week 1 2 × 5
Week 2 3 × 8
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12
3. Suspension 
single-arm row
Hold a suspension handle in your left 
hand in a reclined position. Keeping your 
chest facing forward and body completely 
straight, flex your left elbow, pulling 
yourself up until your left arm is by your 
left side. Extend your arm to the starting 
position. Repeat for the desired number 
of repetitions, then switch to the other 
side. Use clamps or lockdown handles for 
additional grip strength.Week 1 2 × 5 per side
Week 2 3 × 8 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 8 per side
4. Cable staggered 
stance single-arm 
CLA compound 
rowStand in a staggered stance, your left leg 
forward. Hold the handle of a low cable 
in your right hand in a neutral grip. (Use 
a band if you don’t have access to a cable 
machine.) Hinge at the hips and lean your 
shoulders forward until your torso is 
parallel to the ground and you feel a good 
stretch in your left hamstrings. Simultane -
ously extend the hips and row with your 
right arm until your right hand is next to 
the right side of your ribs. Repeat for the 
desired number of repetitions, then switch 
to the other side.Week 1 2 × 8 per side 
Week 2 3 × 10 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per side
5. DB 45-degree 
row
Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. 
Keep a slight bend in the knees. Lean 
forward, hinging at the hips to a 45-degree 
angle. Hold a dumbbell in each hand and 
allow your arms to extend down. Keep 
your palms facing the front. Row the 
dumbbells up, pulling them toward the 
sides of your ribs. Lower the dumbbells to 
the starting position. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 12


135HIS BACK 4: HIGH VOLUME
This 4-week program is a monster high-volume workout designed for maximum growth. Pack 
a lunch; you are going to be here for a while. I caution everyone against tackling this workout 
with maximum weight; it will destroy you if you do. Pace yourself and let the volume, not the 
load, do the work. Use lighter loads and slow down so you can feel each contraction. If you take 
the steady approach, you will feel your muscle pump over the workout; if you go too fast, you 
will gas out and lose your pump. For a faster and more efficient workout, this routine can also 
be done in sets of pairs (1 and 2, 3 and 4) with 5 as a finisher. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for 
most people. Weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by professionals and those who have a 
considerable training base.
Equipment
Lat pull-down machine with wide bar attachment, rowing machine with V-bar attachment, barbell, 
weight bench, dumbbells, cable machine with straight bar attachment or bands
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).
Table 9.4 His Back 4: High Volume
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Wide-grip pull-
down (may use 
normal or neutral 
bar)
Attach a wide bar to the lat pull-down 
machine. Hold on to the bar with your 
palms facing away and wider than 
shoulder-width. Flexing your elbows, pull 
the bar down until it touches your upper 
chest. Extend your elbows, returning to 
the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2. Cable V-bar row
 Attach a V-bar to the row pulley. Sit on a 
flat bench with your feet on the platform 
in front. Flex your elbows and row (pull) 
the V-bar toward your ribs until it touches 
your body. Extend your elbows and push 
the V-bar forward until full extension. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 10
3. Barbell bent-
over row
Hold a barbell in a pronated grip with your 
hands shoulder-width apart. Bend your 
knees slightly and lean your torso forward 
until it is parallel to the ground. With your 
arms extending down, palms facing the 
body, row the barbell up, pulling it toward 
your ribs. Lower the barbell to the starting 
position. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
(continued)

136Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
4. DB pullover
 Lie perpendicularly on a flat bench with 
only your shoulders on the bench. Bend 
your legs, and keep your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold the dumbbell in both 
hands over your chest with your arms fully 
extended. Lower the dumbbell behind your 
head, keeping your arms fully extended. 
Once you feel a stretch in the chest, return 
the dumbbell to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12
5. Cable straight-
arm pull-down 
breakdown 
Stand in front of a cable machine with 
feet parallel and shoulder-width apart, 
knees slightly bent, torso flexed about 20 
degrees. Using a pronated grip, hold a bar 
attached to a high pulley. Keeping your 
arms fully extended, pull the bar down to 
your thighs. Return to the starting position. 
Repeat. Weeks 1-2 2 supersets
Weeks 3-4 3 supersetsTable 9.4 His Back 4: High Volume (continued)
HIS BACK 5: PRO SHOW BACK WORKOUT
This 4-week professional bodybuilding program dissects the back and develops it from the base, 
near the hips, all the way past the shoulder blades. It also pays attention to the depth of the back 
with exercises like the quarter deadlifts. Like the previous workout, I recommend you complete 
each exercise with plenty of rest in between. However, this routine can also be done in sets of 
pairs (1 and 2, 3 and 4) with 5 as a finisher if you want to work in a time-efficient circuit fashion. 
I can’t emphasize enough that this is a professional workout. Even the equipment used is avail -
able only at professional gyms. However, you can substitute exercises and equipment to make it 
happen in your gym. If you don’t have a few years of training under your belt, stick to weeks 1 
and 2. If you are a seasoned veteran with time to train, give weeks 3 and 4 a shot.
Equipment
Barbell, cable machine with V-bar and handle attachment, weight bench, dumbbells, back 
extension bench, resistance bands (such as the JC Predator), T-bar and pad, pull-down machine
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).

137Table 9.5 His Back 5: Pro Show Back Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
DAY 1
1. Barbell quarter 
flexed (bent-over) 
low row
Hold a barbell in a supinated grip with your 
hands shoulder-width apart, knees slightly 
bent, and feet shoulder-width apart. Lean 
your torso forward to a 45-degree angle. 
With your arms hanging down, row the 
barbell up, pulling it toward your belly. 
Lower the barbell a quarter of the way 
down and repeat. Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2. V-bar pull-down 
to chest
Hold a V-bar attached to a high pulley. 
Sit down with your knees bent, your feet 
shoulder-width apart, and your arms 
extended overhead. Flex your elbows and 
pull the V-bar to the chest. Extend your 
arms to the starting position. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12
3. DB pullover
 Lie perpendicularly on a flat bench with 
only your shoulders on the bench. Bend 
your legs and keep your feet shoulder-
width apart on the ground. Hold a 
dumbbell in both hands over your chest 
with your arms fully extended. Lower 
the dumbbell behind your head, keeping 
your arms fully extended. Once you feel a 
stretch in the chest, return the dumbbell to 
starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12
4. DB back exten -
sion compound 
row (45-degree 
bench)
Tucking your ankles under the pads, place 
your thighs on the pads of the back exten -
sion bench, with the pads at hip level. Flex 
the hips and grab dumbbells in each hand. 
Simultaneously extend your hips and row 
the dumbbells to your sides. Flex your hips 
and lower the dumbbells to the starting 
position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 1
5. Band finisher: 
BP row + BP bent-
over alternating 
row + BP swim 
(meta back)
BP row: Hold the handle of a band in each 
hand with a pronated grip. Stand upright 
with your feet shoulder-width apart and 
your elbows extended. Flex your elbows, 
pulling the handles to your sides. Extend 
your elbows out in front. Repeat. BP bent-
over alternating row: Hinge at the hips 
until the torso is parallel to the ground. 
Row in an alternating fashion (20 reps per 
side). BP swim: Stand. Keeping the arms 
extended through the entire motion, pull 
the bands down while flexing your torso 
until your hands are near your back pockets 
and the bands are touching the shoulders. 
Return to the starting position. Repeat.Weeks 1-2 2 (20 + 20 per 
side + 20)
Weeks 3-4 3 (20 + 20 per 
side + 20)
(continued)

138Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
DAY 2
1. Barbell partial 
deadlift (off racks)
Stand behind the barbell, your feet 
shoulder-width apart. Hold the barbell 
with both hands, your hands shoulder-
width apart. Lower your hips and bend 
your knees. Push through your heels and 
lift the weight, driving your hips into the 
bar. Lower the barbell a quarter of the way 
down, then pull back up until your hips hit 
the bar again. Repeat this quarter move -
ment for the desired number of reps, then 
lower the barbell to the rack. Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2. Cable staggered 
stance quarter 
flexed single-arm 
high-to-low wide 
cable pull-down
Stand in a staggered stance with your 
left leg forward. Hold the handle of a high 
cable secured above head level in your 
right hand. Keep your arm extended and 
torso flexed at 45 degrees. Pull down in 
a wide fashion, as if you were doing a 
single-arm pull-down. When your elbow 
is fully flexed, raise and extend the arm 
to the original position. Switch arms and 
repeat. Week 1 2 × 10 per side 
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 12 per side
3. Chest-supported 
Barbell row
Lie prone on the T-bar row pad, making 
sure your upper chest is at the top of the 
pad. (Perform unsupported if you don’t 
have a supported T-bar set up.) Once in 
position, hold the T-bar handles with your 
arms extended. Flexing at your elbows, 
pull the weight up until your elbows are 
fully flexed. Extend your elbows to the 
starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
4. Single-arm 
cable pull-down
Sit at a cable machine with a single handle 
attached to a high pulley. Reach above 
you and hold the handle in your right hand 
with the elbow fully extended. Flexing 
your elbow, pull the handle down until it is 
close to your shoulder. Extend your arm 
back up to the starting position. Repeat. 
Switch sides.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 12 per side
5. DB finisher: 
DB bent-over 
row breakdown 
superset
Hold a dumbbell in a pronated grip in each 
hand. Bend your knees slightly, keep your 
feet shoulder-width apart, and lean for -
ward at a 45-degree angle at the hips. Flex 
your elbows to pull the dumbbells toward 
you, keeping them close to your body. 
Once the dumbbells are right beneath 
your ribs, extend your arms and return to 
the starting position. Repeat. Start with a 
weight that allows you to perform 15 reps. 
Drop the weight 20%-25% for 3 drop sets 
to failure in each superset; do the first set 
and 2 drop sets. Weeks 1-2 2 supersets
Weeks 3-4 3 supersetsTable 9.5 His Back 5: Pro Show Back Workout (continued)

139HER BACK 1: HOME OR PARK BACK WORKOUT
This 4-week program can be done in a park or at home using a portable pull-up bar on a door. 
Most women think they can’t do pull-ups, but I routinely get fit females to do 5-10 pull-ups with 
no problems. If you need help, use a large band to assist you or ask a partner. This is a fantastic 
workout for the woman who thought she could never do a pull-up and wants to get strong 
without getting big. With just a portable pull-up bar on a door in your house, this low-volume, 
high-intensity workout can develop a very strong back without creating a wide back. Weeks 1 
and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more 
advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Pull-up bar, beach towel, box, suspension system (optional), wheel (optional), large band (optional)
Notes
For all pull-up and chin-up variations, you can use a band to assist you.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).HER WORKOUTS
Table 9.6 Her Back 1: Home or Park Back Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Pull-up
 Grab the pull-up bar with your palms 
facing away from you and your hands 
shoulder-width apart, both elbows 
extended. Flex at your elbows, bringing 
your chest toward the bar until your chin 
is above the bar. Lower until your elbows 
reach full extension. (If you’re unable 
to pull your body weight, use a band for 
assistance.) Repeat.Week 1 2 × 2-4
Week 2 3 × 3-5
Week 3 4 × 4-6
Week 4 5 × 5-8
2. Chin-up 
 Grab the pull-up bar with your palms 
facing you and both elbows extended. Flex 
at your elbows, bringing your chest toward 
the bar until your chin is above the bar. 
Lower your chest until your elbows reach 
full extension. (If you’re unable to pull your 
body weight, use a band for assistance.) 
Repeat. Week 1 2 × 2-3
Week 2 3 × 3-4
Week 3 4 × 4-5
Week 4 5 × 5
3. Partial pump at 
midway (chin-up 
grip)
Grab the pull-up bar with your palms 
facing you, both elbows extended. Flex 
at your elbows, bringing your chest 
toward the bar until your elbows flex at 90 
degrees. You may use a box to get you to 
that position. Hold this suspended position 
and perform small pumps at about 90-110 
degrees of elbow flexion. Week 1 2 × 2-3
Week 2 3 × 3-4
Week 3 4 × 4-5
Week 4 5 × 5
(continued)

140Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
4. Rope or towel 
recline row
Wrap a rope or a big beach towel over the 
pull-up bar. Hold the ends in each hand, 
palms facing each other, and assume a 
reclined position. Flex your elbows and 
pull yourself up until your elbows reach 
full flexion and your hands are at the sides 
of your chest. Lower your body until your 
elbows are at full extension. Repeat. (You 
may use a suspension system instead, if 
available.)Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 10
5. Rope or towel 
roll-out
Wrap a rope or a big beach towel over the 
pull-up bar. Hold the ends in each hand, 
palms facing each other, and assume 
a comfortable inclined position (about 
70 degrees facing down) as if you were 
going to do a push-up. Keeping your arms 
extended, allow your shoulders to flex 
and your arms to move out and up until 
your entire body is in a straight line. Pull 
your arms back to the push-up posi -
tion. Repeat. As you get stronger, reduce 
your incline angle. (You may use a wheel 
instead, if available.)Week 1 2 × 2-3
Week 2 3 × 3-4
Week 3 4 × 4-5
Week 4 5 × 5Table 9.6 Her Back 1: Home or Park Back Workout (continued)
HER BACK 2: CABLE OR BAND BACK TONING WORKOUT
This 4-week band/pulley program is easy to execute but very effective. Since it uses a band or a 
cable system, the workout can be done at home, while traveling, or at a gym. The workout uses 
the staggered stance for half of the exercises, making it a great workout to help supplement your 
glute work. If you are tight for time, you can hit the back and glutes at the same time. Because 
of the good glute activation in this workout, I recommend you complete this workout a couple 
days after your main glute/hip training or perform it the day before. Although it’s a back routine, 
the glutes stabilize some exercises. You don’t want your glutes to fail due to fatigue. Weeks 1 
and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more 
advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Cable machine with handle attachment or bands with handles
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).

141Table 9.7 Her Back 2: Cable or Band Back Toning Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. BP parallel 
stance compound 
low row
Set a band or cable at a low position. 
Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart, 
a slight bend in your knees. Hold the 
handles in a pronated grip. Keep your back 
straight through the entire movement. 
With your arms fully extended, flex your 
hips until you feel a good stretch in your 
hamstrings. Simultaneously extend your 
hips and elbows to row the handles to the 
side of your ribs. Extend your arms and 
flex your hips back to the original position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 10
2. BP staggered 
stance bent-over 
alternating row
Set a band or cable at waist to chest 
height. Stand in a staggered stance (left 
leg forward) and hold a band or cable 
handle in each hand in a pronated grip. 
Flex at the hips until you feel a good 
stretch in your left hamstrings. Start with 
your left arm extended and your right 
elbow flexed to 90 degrees and away from 
your body. Perform alternating one-arm 
pulls from the bent-over position. Switch 
leg position and repeat. Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 15 per side
Week 4 5 × 12 per side
3. BP staggered 
stance single-arm 
CLA mid row
Set a band or cable at waist to chest 
height. Stand in a staggered stance, your 
left foot forward. Hold a handle in your 
right hand in a neutral position, your palm 
facing in. Flex your elbow by pulling the 
handle to the right side of your ribcage. 
Extend your arm to the original position. 
Repeat for the desired number of repeti -
tions, then switch arms and leg positions 
and repeat to the other side.Week 1 2 × 8 per side
Week 2 3 × 10 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per side
4. BP single-arm 
swim (straight-arm 
pull-down)
Set a band or cable at a high point above 
your head. Stand with your feet shoulder-
width apart, a slight bend in the knees. 
Hold the handle with your right hand and 
hinge at the hips to lean forward about 45 
degrees. Keeping your arm fully extended, 
hinge at the shoulder to pull your arm 
down until your right hand is next to your 
right hip. Return to the starting position. 
Repeat for the desired number of repeti -
tions, then switch to the other arm.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 15 per side
Week 4 5 × 12 per side

142HER BACK 3: FUNCTIONAL BACK SHAPING WORKOUT
This 4-week program is a fun functional workout with some unique exercises. Although this 
workout is a back workout, the core is really activated by the plank position, lateral flexion, and 
long-lever bent-over positions used in some of these exercises. Most homes can be equipped 
with the functional equipment needed for this workout, so this is a great home routine that really 
delivers on the performance side of things. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while 
weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable 
training base.
Equipment
Suspension system with handles, resistance bands with handles (such as JC Traveler or Predator 
Jr.), stable object such as a door, stability ball, barbell, dumbbells (optional)
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).
Table 9.8 Her Back 3: Functional Back Shaping Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Suspension 
L-pull (seated from 
feet)
Sit on the ground, your legs straight out 
in front. Hold the suspension system 
handles with arms fully extended. Flex at 
your elbows, pulling yourself up from the 
ground. Make sure to keep your L position 
with your legs straight and feet on the 
floor. Once in full flexion, extend your 
elbows, and lower yourself back to the 
ground. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 10
2. BP single-arm 
lateral pull-down 
(with lat flexion)
Stand with a band secured at the top of 
a door on your right-hand side. Hold the 
handle with your right hand, your arm 
straight and palm facing the front. Simul -
taneously flex your torso to the right, 
while flexing your right elbow to pull the 
band until your right elbow is fully flexed 
and touches your right hip. Slowly return 
your body and right arm to the starting 
position. Repeat for the desired number of 
repetitions, then switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 8 per side
Week 2 3 × 10 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per side
3. SB elbow roll-
out
Assume a plank position on a stability 
ball, your elbows on the stability ball and 
your knees or feet on the ground. Keeping 
this plank position, roll the ball forward, 
extending your arms as far as your core 
can tolerate and stay pain- free. Roll the 
ball back to the plank position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 10

143HER BACK 4: MS. FITNESS PRO BACK WORKOUT
This 4-week program is the first of two pro-grade workouts. This is a full-fledged, high-volume 
bodybuilding workout with a ton of work in it. The exercises are nothing fancy, just good old-
fashioned work. If you are using heavy weights, this workout will take 90 to 120 min, but you 
can always use lighter loads and cut the volume of sets and reps. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough 
for most people. Only professionals should attempt weeks 3 and 4.
Equipment
Cable machine with wide bar attachment and straight bar attachment, incline bench, weight 
bench, dumbbells
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).
Table 9.9 Her Back 4: Ms. Fitness Pro Back Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Neutral grip 
sternum pull-down
Attach a wide bar to a high pulley and hold 
it in a neutral grip at each end, your palms 
facing in. Extend your elbows, keeping 
your arms overhead. Sit with your feet 
shoulder-width apart. Flex your elbows 
and pull the bar down to your sternum. 
Return to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 10
2. DB prone incline 
bench row
Lie prone on an incline bench, your chest 
and belly on the inclined portion of the 
bench. Hold a dumbbell in each hand 
with your arms fully extended. Flex your 
elbows, pulling the dumbbells up to the 
sides of your rib cage. Lower the dumb -
bells to the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 10Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
4. DB quarter 
flexed (bent-over) 
low row
Hold the dumbbells in a pronated grip. 
Bend your knees slightly. Keep your feet 
shoulder-width apart and lean forward at a 
45-degree angle at the hips. Starting with 
your arms straight and vertical, flex your 
elbows to pull the dumbbells to the sides 
of your lower ribs. Lower the dumbbells to 
the starting position. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 12
(continued)

144Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
3. DB bent-over 
row (supported)
Hold a dumbbell in your right hand using 
a neutral grip. Bend your knees slightly, 
your feet shoulder-width apart. Lean 
forward at a 45-degree angle at the hips. 
Rest your left hand on a bench or other 
stable structure. Flex your right elbow and 
row the dumbbell to the right side of your 
rib cage. Extend your elbow back to the 
starting position. Repeat for the desired 
number of repetitions, then switch to the 
other side.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 12 per side
Week 3 4 × 15 per side
Week 4 5 × 12 per side
4. Cable straight-
arm pull-down
Attach a straight bar to a high cable 
pulley. Hold the bar in a pronated grip, 
your arms extended and the bar at shoul -
der height. Lean forward at a 45-degree 
angle at the hips so that the bar is above 
head height and your arms are in line 
with the torso. Pull the bar down until it 
touches your thighs. Raise the bar back to 
the starting position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 15
5. DB pullover 
breakdown set
Lie perpendicularly on a flat bench with 
only your shoulders on the bench. Your 
legs are bent, and your feet are shoulder-
width apart. Hold the dumbbell in both 
hands over your chest, your arms fully 
extended. Lower the dumbbell behind 
your head, keeping your arms extended. 
Once you feel a stretch in the chest, 
bring the dumbbell back over your chest. 
Repeat. Start with a weight that allows 
you to perform 15 reps. Drop the weight 
20%-25% for each set and perform the 
reps to failure. Perform 3 sets total in 
each superset: first set and 2 drop sets.Weeks 1-2 2 supersets
Weeks 3-4 3 supersetsTable 9.9 Her Back 4: Ms. Fitness Pro Back Workout (continued)

145HER BACK 5:  
PROFESSIONAL-GRADE BODYBUILDING BACK WORKOUT
The last body transformation workout is this 4-week, 2-day professional-grade split routine for the 
back. This workout pays particular attention to the tie-in of the lower back and lats, something 
neglected in many workouts. This is another back workout that serves as a great supplementary 
workout for the glutes. You can superset exercises 1, 2, 3, and 4 (about 70 min) or take your 
time and run the workout in succession (about 90 min). Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most 
people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have 
a considerable training base.
Equipment
Dumbbells; medicine balls; cable machine with handle, rope, wide-grip straight bar, and regular 
bar attachments; bench; stability ball; pull-down machine; T-bar machine; rowing machine with 
wide-grip bar; bands (such as JC Sports or Predator)
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (for very advanced trainees only).
Table 9.10 Her Back 5: Professional-Grade Bodybuilding Back Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
DAY 1
1. DB quarter 
flexed (bent-over) 
low row
Hold the dumbbells in a pronated grip. 
Bend your knees slightly. Keep your feet 
shoulder-width apart and lean forward at a 
45-degree angle at the hips. Starting with 
your arms straight and vertical, flex your 
elbows to pull the dumbbells to the sides 
of your lower ribs. Lower the dumbbells to 
the starting position. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 8
Week 4 5 × 6
2. Cable kneeling 
single-arm row 
(Moto row varia -
tion)
Kneel facing a low cable or band. Hold the 
handle in your right hand with your elbow 
extended and palm facing down (or in). 
Place your left hand in front of you for 
stability. Flex your right elbow and pull 
the handle to the side of the right chest. 
Extend your elbow back to the starting 
position. Repeat for the desired number of 
repetitions, then switch arms and repeat.Week 1 2 × 8 per side
Week 2 3 × 10 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per side
3. Cable incline 
bench pullover
Place an incline bench in front of a cable 
set at about hip height with a rope attach -
ment at the end of the cable. Lie on the 
incline bench, with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Hold the rope ends with your 
arms straight and your hands behind your 
head, feeling a good stretch on your back. 
Keeping your arms straight, pull the rope 
until your arms are at 90 degrees to your 
body. Return your hands to the starting 
position behind your head. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 12
(continued)

146Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
4. SB reverse 
extension with 
weight between 
feet
Lie on a small stability ball (55 cm)  so 
your pelvis is on the top and your elbows 
are on the ground. Have someone put a 
dumbbell or medicine ball between your 
feet. Squeeze the legs to make sure you 
don’t drop the weight. Keep your knees 
slightly flexed while squeezing the dumb -
bell or medicine ball. Extend the hips to 
raise your legs and the weight. Slowly 
lower your legs to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10
Week 2 3 × 12
Week 3 4 × 15
Week 4 5 × 12
5. Finisher: cable 
standing wide-grip 
high row to chin 
+ cable row to hip 
+ cable bent-over 
straight-arm pull-
down
Attach a wide-grip straight bar to a cable 
pulley at shoulder height. Stand facing the 
cable machine, your elbows fully extended 
and your knees slightly bent. Cable stand -
ing wide-grip high row to chin: Holding 
the bar in a pronated grip, flex your 
elbows to pull the bar toward your chin. 
Extend your elbows back to the starting 
position. Repeat for 20 reps. Cable row 
to hips: Flex your elbows again, this time 
rowing the bar down to your hips. Extend 
your elbows back to the starting posi -
tion. Repeat to failure. Cable bent-over 
straight-arm pull-down: Lean forward at a 
45-degree angle at the hips. Keeping your 
arms extended, pull the bar to your hips. 
Allow the bar to go back to the starting 
position. Repeat to failure. This is one 
superset. Do not rest between exercises.Weeks 1-2 2 (20 + failure + 
failure) supersets
Week 3-4 3 (20 + failure + 
failure) supersets
DAY 2
1. Cable standing 
row to belly
Stand facing the cable machine, your 
elbows fully extended and your knees 
slightly bent. Holding the bar in a pro -
nated grip, flex your elbows to pull the bar 
toward your belly. Extend your elbows, 
returning to the starting position. Repeat. Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 10
Week 4 5 × 8
2. Machine seated 
single-arm pull-
down
Sit at a pull-down machine. Reach above 
you and hold one handle with your right 
hand, your elbow fully extended. Flex your 
elbow, pulling the handle down to the right 
side of your ribcage. Extend your elbow 
back to the starting position. Repeat for 
the desired number of repetitions, then 
switch to the other side.Week 1 2 × 8 per side 
Week 2 3 × 10 per side
Week 3 4 × 12 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per sideTable 9.10 Her Back 5: Professional-Grade Bodybuilding Back Workout (continued)

147 Back
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
3. T-bar quarter 
deadlift + T-bar 
row
Stand over the T-bar so it is underneath 
you. Once in position, hold on to the T-bar 
handles with your arms extended. Per -
form a quarter deadlift (lean your body 45 
degrees forward) and hold the position, 
lowering the bar and keeping your elbows 
at full extension. Flex your elbows to pull 
the weight below your chest. Extend your 
elbows to lower the T-bar to the starting 
position. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 8
Week 4 5 × 6
4. Cable seated 
wide-grip high row
Attach a wide-grip bar to the row pulley. 
Sit on a flat bench with your feet flat, 
keeping your arms extended. Flex your 
elbows and pull the bar toward you until 
it touches your collarbone. Extend your 
elbows to return to the starting position. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 8
Week 2 3 × 10
Week 3 4 × 12
Week 4 5 × 10
5. Band finisher: 
BP row + BP bent-
over alternating 
band row + BP 
swim (meta back)
BP row: Hold the handle of a band in each 
hand with a pronated grip. Stand upright 
with your feet shoulder-width apart and 
elbows extended. Flex your elbows, pulling 
the handles to your sides. Extend your 
elbows out in front. Repeat. BP bent-over 
alternating row: Hold a handle in each hand 
in a pronated grip. Hinge at the hips until 
the torso is parallel to the ground. Row in 
an alternating fashion (20 reps per side). 
BP swim: Stand. Hold a handle in each 
hand in a pronated grip. Keeping your arms 
extended through the entire motion, pull 
the bands down while flexing your torso 
until your hands are near your back pockets 
and the bands are touching the shoulders. 
Return to the starting position. Repeat.Weeks 1-2 2 (20 + 20 per arm 
+ 20) supersets
Weeks 3-4 3 (20 + 20 per arm 
+ 20) supersets
Summary
I hope this chapter inspired a new appreciation for how important and complex back 
training really is yet simplified your training approach. At the end of day, it’s not 
about an exercise or how much weight you use. Yes, those factors play a role in your 
training, but they play a role because of what they do, not because of what they are! 
They stimulate the muscle. However, no one exercise reigns supreme over another 
because how much a muscle is stimulated is in the mind of the person doing the exer -
cise. In essence, whatever exercise allows an individual to connect with a muscle and 
contract it (stimulate it) is the best exercise. I have seen exercises I consider useless 
pump up my training partner to no end! So, if you feel the exercise and can connect 
with the muscle you are working, keep doing it. This chapter provides a variety sure 
to give you four to eight exercises that will connect you with your body and give you 
that pump that indicates the training is on target. Mix and match until you create that 
perfect workout and then run with it for four weeks.

This page intentionally left blank

149
PART III
PART III
PART III
Athletic 
Movement
Part III concentrates on athletic movements and abilities, such as jumping power, speed, and 
agility. The chapter on jumping considers the various ways athletes jump and does not lump 
all of jumping into one category. You also will see that we do not use Olympic lifts, depth 
jumps, or other training that is overrated, sometimes ineffi  cient, and is not specifi  c to much 
of the jumping that occurs in sports. Although IHP has about $400,000 worth of equipment, 
we train jumping simply, and this simple approach to jump training improves jump height as 
well as anything else. This simple programming is shared with you in that chapter.
The chapter on speed addresses different aspects of sport locomotion that often are thrown 
together into the speed bucket. Although speed is certainly important in sports, I would argue 
a more important ability is acceleration. Therefore I include workouts for both speed and 
acceleration. Likewise, although linear speed gets a ton of attention, often changes of direction 
are far more important in athletics. Both are covered in this chapter.
Finally, agility is another important athletic ability that does not get the attention it deserves. 
In the agility chapter, I cover everything from cone drills to situational position changes. Some 
of the cone agility drills have an enormous conditioning component and so serve as both 
conditioning and agility training. This chapter is one of the shortest in the book, but packs a 
big punch. I am certain you will be a much more explosive and agile athlete after completing 
some of the workouts that await you in part III.

This page intentionally left blank

151
CHAPTER 10
Jumping
Of all valuable athletic skills, jumping is at the top of the list. Whether it’s jump-
ing to block a spike in volleyball, dunk a ball in basketball, or make a catch in 
football, jumping is at the forefront of many sports. All jumping is similar but 
not the same. Although I could get into the physics of jumps, I want to keep things 
simple and practical. Therefore, let’s separate jumps into two basic categories: stand-
ing and running vertical jumps. This way, we can better understand how to train 
them specifically.
First, we have the parallel stance standing vertical jump. Of all jumps, I consider 
this the most popular, the most trained, and the one most dependent on strength, yet 
it’s possibly the least functional for life (i.e., sports). I know that seems odd, but let’s 
look at it from a practical standpoint. Few jumps in life occur from a stationary posi -
tion, use both legs symmetrically, and launch a person vertically upward. Other than 
a jump ball in basketball or some blocks in volleyball, most jumps use a running start 
to convert horizontal energy into vertical energy, just like skimming a rock on water.
Standing vertical jumps use the largest amount of leg strength. This is why squatting 
has traditionally been the most common strength exercise used to improve vertical 
jump. Squatting improves the amount and magnitude of contraction. Various speed 
and power exercises are added to squats to help develop the speed of contraction. 
These include some partial lifts from the Olympic weightlifting world, such as cleans 
and high pulls, as well as various jumping-related exercises, such as box jumps, verti -
cal jumps, and medicine ball scoop tosses. There is no doubt these exercises improve 
lower-body power and have a place in just about any jump enhancement program.
Second, we have running vertical jumps. Running jumps are separated into two 
categories: double-leg and single-leg takeoffs, regardless of landing position. Therefore, 
one needs to understand that double-leg vertical jumps use the A-frame for takeoff, 
while the single-leg jumps utilize the 7-frame. This distinction must be made if the 
principle of specificity of training is to be adhered to. Training on two legs is very 
different than training on one leg, and we need to look at things from a functional 
standpoint, even if we have to question traditional dogma.
Whether it’s a jump serve in volleyball, a single-leg takeoff for a dunk in basketball, 
or any jump in track and field, all these jumps use muscular contraction. A significant 
amount of vertical lift is generated by the horizontal energy provided by running and 
the elastic components of the body (e.g., bone, ligaments, tendons, and other noncon -
tractile tissue). Running vertical jumps require the least amount of range of motion 
and the least amount of leg and hip strength (as we usually understand strength), but 
they utilize the most elastic recoil. These jumps don’t require a lot of leg movement 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 152
through large ranges of motion; rather, they require leg and hip stiffness through very 
short ranges of motion. If you look at these jumps in slow motion, you will see small 
ranges of motion of the ankles, knees, and hips at the moment of takeoff (i.e., where 
horizontal momentum is converted to vertical lift). Therefore, this chapter has many 
partial-range-of-motion exercises that develop the lower-body stiffness characteristic 
of elastic power movements.
This chapter includes easy-to-follow workouts that will improve all versions of 
vertical jumps, from standing to running, and from double-leg to single-leg. Many 
workouts follow the succession format in which all the sets of a particular exercise are 
completed before going on to the next exercise. I also use the sequence method, pairing 
a strength exercise and an explosive exercise that looks like the strength exercise (i.e., 
uses the same muscles). This pairing of a strength exercise and an explosive exercise 
has been referred to as complex or contrast training. In complex training, the CNS is 
excited but not fatigued by a few reps of the strength exercise. A short rest (about a 
minute) allows the muscles to recover, while the CNS is still excited (i.e., potentiated). 
Then the light explosive exercise is performed to a much higher power output than if 
it were done without the prior heavy work. This process works just like a batter who 
warms up by swinging a bat weighted with a doughnut, then removes the doughnut 
and swings the bat by itself.
I also vary the equipment so you can train in any field or gym. This chapter con -
tains medicine ball and dumbbell workouts that can be performed on any field, as 
well as workouts that require standard equipment such as barbells, dumbbells, and 
medicine balls. A few workouts require specialized equipment, such as sleds, in case 
you have them available. If you like a workout, but it uses equipment you don’t have, 
substitute a similar exercise that uses available equipment. For example, if you don’t 
have a leg press machine for a double-leg or single-leg leg press, substitute a barbell 
squat or weighted step-up, respectively. If you don’t have a sled to drag, push, or pull, 
use a tire to provide resistance. Equipment shouldn’t determine the effectiveness of 
your training. Options are available, so no excuses. Make it happen.
Power training should not be done without a training base. In order to learn to be 
explosive, you must practice being explosive; it is a learned behavior. This means each 
explosive repetition has to be an attempt at a personal record, and ample rest (5-10 
sec) between each rep must be taken in order to repeatedly provide your best effort. 
This is not conditioning; this is power development. Take your time and learn to be 
explosive by constantly performing quality power repetitions.
Fast, explosive movements put a lot of strain on the entire jumping mechanism (e.g., 
bone, ligaments, tendons, and muscles). If the specific structure involved in generat -
ing the force required for the jump is not ready, some form of injury is almost certain. 
Therefore, I recommend everyone complete a leg and hip program from chapter 4 to 
develop a proper training base for jump training. Ideally you want a week of active 
recovery between the month of strength work and the jump training in this chapter, but 
since the workouts are progressive (i.e., they start light and progressively get heavier) 
you may proceed with caution into these workouts after completing your base train -
ing. If at any time your ankles, knees, or hips become achy, stop training or, at the very 
least, reduce your volume and intensity. Pain is a sign the work you are doing is too 
much for your joints and more strength may be needed, or it means that the training 
just does not agree with you. Pain can come from many things, such as being too heavy 
for your structure, lack of strength, insufficient training base, incorrect execution of 
an exercise, too much weight for an exercise, or an incorrect warm-up. Don’t worry; 
we can always train around pain and improve performance to some degree without 

153 Jumping
Table 10.1 Jump 1: Stationary Double-Leg Jump Field Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Weight plate 
speed chop\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8732, 
F 10.01a, ID: 612415, here\Stand upright, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold a heavy weight plate in both 
hands over your head. Squat and lower 
the plate between your legs while leaning 
your shoulders forward and keeping your 
back straight. Stand up to return to the 
starting position. Repeat. Use a heavy 
weight that allows you to perform 8-10 
repetitions. Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
doing more damage. Above all, be smart about your training! If an exercise doesn’t 
feel good, stop and substitute an exercise that does feel good. Train pain free.
Warming up for jump training is more important than for hypertrophy training, 
perhaps because hypertrophy training does not start as an all-out effort and jump 
training does. In hypertrophy training, the muscle has time to adjust to the load over 
8 to 15 repetitions. In jump training, it has to be ready on the first jump. Therefore, 
here is a basic warm-up protocol to get you ready for your jump workouts.
WARM-UP FOR DOUBLE-LEG JUMPING
MB chopper (MB chop, rotation with pivot, diagonal wood chop) 3 × 10 + 10 + 10 
(to each side)
Vertical jump 3 × 3 (1 × 3 at 50% effort, 1 × 3 at 75% effort, and 1 × 3 at 100% effort)
WARM-UP FOR SINGLE-LEG JUMPING
Single-leg CLA anterior reach 2 × 10 per leg
Single-leg short squat 2 × 5 per leg
Single-leg hop 2 × 2-3 per leg
JUMP 1: STATIONARY DOUBLE-LEG JUMP  
FIELD WORKOUT
This is a basic 4-week program to develop stationary double-leg jumping. It requires simple 
equipment, including a weight plate or heavy and light medicine balls (heavy for chopping and 
light for throwing). This workout is perfect for young athletes or those wanting to improve their 
jumping ability for a weekend game of beach volleyball or basketball. The workout is set up as a 
sequence: Perform the A exercise, rest for 1 min, perform the B exercise, and rest 2-3 min before 
going back to the A exercise. Perform each B exercise with maximum effort, and rest for 5-10 
sec between each rep to ensure maximal training intensity. You can also perform this workout 
in succession and complete the prescribed sets and reps of each exercise before going on to the 
next exercise, resting 1 min between each exercise.
Equipment
Heavy weight plate, medicine ball, dumbbells
Notes
Rest for 1 min between the A and B exercises in each complex. Rest 2-3 min between each complex.JUMP WORKOUTS
(continued)

154Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1b. MB reverse 
scoop throw \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9193, 
F 10.01b, ID: 612416, here\Hold the medicine ball in your hands, 
your arms extended and feet shoulder-
width apart. Squat, lowering the medicine 
ball between your legs. Thrust the hips 
forward, throwing the ball backward over 
your head. Repeat. Use a light weight you 
can throw fast.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
2a. DB squat jump \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9199, 
F 10.01c, ID: 612417, here\Stand upright, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold a dumbbell in each hand by 
your sides. Sit your hips back into a squat 
until your thighs are parallel to the floor. 
Jump straight up, pushing through your 
toes, and land softly. Repeat. Use a heavy 
weight that allows you to perform 8-10 
repetitions.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
2b. Vertical jump \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9295, 
F 10.01f, ID: 612420, here\Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Squat, swinging the arms 
back. Explode up and swing the arms 
forward, reaching as high as you can. 
Land softly on both feet. Repeat.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
3a. MB burpee \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9255, 
F 10.01e, ID: 612419, here\With a medicine ball in front of you, squat 
down and place your hands on the medi -
cine ball while jumping your feet out into 
a plank position. Quickly bring your feet 
back toward the medicine ball, then stand 
upright with the medicine ball. Lower 
the medicine ball back to the starting 
position. Repeat. Use a heavy weight that 
allows you to perform 8-10 repetitions.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
3b. MB jump and 
reach\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9321, 
F 10.01d, ID: 612418, here\Hold a medicine ball in front of you at 
chest level with your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Squat down and jump up while 
reaching up with the medicine ball. Return 
to the starting position. Repeat. Use a 
light weight that you can lift as high as 
possible.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
Table 10.1 Jump 1: Stationary Double-Leg Jump Field Workout (continued)


155Table 10.2 Jump 2: Stationary Double-Leg Jump Gym Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Barbell high 
pull\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9264, 
F 10.02a, ID: 612422, here\Hold the barbell in a pronated grip with 
hands just outside hip-width, your feet 
shoulder-width apart. Keeping your back 
straight, move your hips back as you bend 
your knees. Keeping your arms straight, 
simultaneously extend your ankles, knees, 
and hips while shrugging, lifting the bar 
to your abdomen. Lower the barbell to 
the starting position. Repeat. Use a heavy 
weight that allows you to perform 7-8 reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
1b. Vertical jump \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9295, 
F 10.02b, ID: 612423, here\Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Squat, swinging your arms 
back. As you explode up, swing your arms 
forward, reaching as high as you can. 
Land softly. Repeat.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
2a. Barbell squat \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8494, 
F 10.02c, ID: 612424, here\Stand upright, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold the barbell on your traps below 
your neck. Sit the hips back as you squat 
until your thighs are parallel to the ground. 
Push through your heels to return to the 
starting position. Repeat. Use a heavy 
weight that allows you to perform 7-8 
reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
JUMP 2: STATIONARY DOUBLE-LEG JUMP GYM WORKOUT
This basic 4-week program develops stationary double-leg jumping and is perfect for a gym 
since it requires barbells, racks, and boxes. This workout is appropriate for intermediate athletes 
or those who have a training base and want to improve their stationary vertical jumps. The 
sequence format is used: Perform the A exercise, rest 1 min, perform the B exercise, and rest 2-3 
min before going back to the A exercise. Perform each B exercise with a maximum effort, and rest 
3-5 sec between each rep to ensure maximal training intensity. Although the sequence format 
is my preference for power training, you can also perform this workout in succession fashion 
and complete the prescribed sets and reps of each exercise before going on to the next exercise.
Equipment
Barbell, plyometric box, medicine ball
Notes
Rest for 1 min between the A and B exercises in each complex. Rest 2-3 min between each complex.
(continued)

156Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. Box jump \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9424, 
F 10.02d, ID: 612425, here\Stand upright, facing a plyometric box. 
Lower your hips into a quarter squat, 
swinging your arms back. Jump onto 
the box as you swing your arms up. Step 
down from the box. Repeat.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
3a. Barbell deadlift \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7424, 
F 10.02e, ID: 612426, here\Hold the barbell in a pronated grip, your 
hands just outside hip-width and your 
feet shoulder-width apart. Keeping your 
back straight, move your hips back as you 
bend your knees. Squat so your shins are 
right behind the bar. Protract the shoulder 
blades and begin to push through the 
heels while driving your hips forward into 
an upright position. Lower the barbell 
by squatting down. Repeat. Use a heavy 
weight that allows you to perform 7-8 reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
3b. MB burpee to 
jump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9258, 
F 10.02f, ID: 612427, here\With a medicine ball in front of you, squat 
and place your hands on the medicine ball 
while jumping your feet out into a plank 
position. Quickly bring your feet back 
toward the medicine ball. Stand upright 
with the medicine ball and jump. Lower 
the medicine ball to the starting position. 
Repeat.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
Table 10.2 Jump 2: Stationary Double-Leg Jump Gym Workout (continued)
JUMP 3: DOUBLE-LEG JUMPING WITH  
RUNNING START  HOME  WORKOUT
This basic 4-week program develops all double-leg jumping that uses a running start. I use this 
workout with clients who need something easy to do at home using dumbbells, medicine balls, 
and body weight. Although this workout is simple enough to be used by beginners, it also can be 
used by advanced athletes if you increase the loads of the resistance exercises and the amplitude 
of the jumps. The sequence format is used: Perform the A exercise, rest 1 min, perform the B 
exercise, and rest 2-3 min before going back to the A exercise. Perform each B exercise with a 
maximum effort, and rest 3-5 sec between each rep to ensure maximal training intensity. Although 
the sequence method is preferred, you can also perform this workout in succession fashion and 
complete the prescribed sets and reps of each exercise before going on to the next exercise.
Equipment
Dumbbells, medicine ball, basketball hoop (or wall), barbell, standing calf machine, Smith machine, 
board or platform
Notes
Rest for 1 min between the A and B exercises in each complex. Rest 2-3 min between each complex.

157Table 10.3 Jump 3: Double-Leg Jumping With Running Start Home Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. DB lateral 
reaching lunge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9303, 
F 10.03a, ID: 612429, here\Stand upright, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold a dumbbell in both hands at 
at your sides. Step to your right with your 
right leg, bending at the hips, and reach 
with the dumbbell to your right foot. Push 
off with your right leg back to the starting 
position and repeat to the left side. Use a 
heavy weight that allows you to perform 
7-8 reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
1b. MB lateral step 
and rim touch\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9315, 
F 10.03b, ID: 612430, here\Stand underneath a basketball hoop and 
hold a medicine ball at chest level. Take 
a lateral step to your right. Immediately 
jump explosively into the air and touch the 
rim with the medicine ball. Repeat to the 
left side. You may use a wall if you cannot 
jump high enough to touch a rim. Use a 
light ball (1-2 lb [1 kg]) that allows you to 
jump high.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
2a. DB rotating 
reaching lunge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9307, 
F 10.03c, ID: 612431, here\Stand upright, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold a dumbbell in both hands at 
chest level. Step to your right and back 
(135 degrees) with your right leg, bending 
at the hips, and reach with the dumbbell 
to your right foot. Push off with your 
right leg back to the starting position and 
repeat to the left. Use a heavy weight that 
allows you to perform 7-8 reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
2b. MB rotational 
step and rim touch\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9323, 
F 10.03d, ID: 612432, here\Stand with your back to a basketball hoop 
or wall. Hold a medicine ball at chest level. 
Take a rotational step back to your right 
so your end position is facing the hoop. 
Immediately jump explosively into the air 
and touch the rim with the medicine ball. 
Repeat to the left side. Note: You may use 
a wall if you cannot jump high enough to 
touch a rim. Use a light ball (1-2 lb [1 kg]) 
that allows you to jump high.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
3a. Weighted ankle 
pump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9337, 
F 10.03e, ID: 612433, here\Use a standing calf machine, Smith 
machine, dumbbells, or a barbell to load 
this exercise. Stand upright, your feet 
shoulder-width apart, with the barbell (or 
shoulder pads) on your traps below your 
neck. Stand on the ground or place the 
balls of your feet on a board, low box, or 
platform. Perform quick and pulsating 
heel raises, barely flexing your knees and 
ankles. Use your legs like a strong spring. 
Use a heavy weight that allows you to per -
form 10-15 reps with no rest between reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5-10
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5-10
(continued)

158Table 10.4 Jump 4: Double-Leg Jump From Running Start Workout 
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Quarter bar -
bell squat\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9348, F 
10.04a, ID: 612436, here\You can use a regular barbell, a Smith 
machine, or some standing calf machines. 
Stand upright, your feet shoulder-width 
apart, with the barbell on your traps below 
your neck. Squat a quarter of the way down, 
controlled. Make sure your knees do not 
extend past your toes. Push through your 
heels until you are back in the starting posi -
tion. Repeat. Use a heavy weight that allows 
you to perform 7-8 reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
1b. Double-leg 
lead-up vertical 
jump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9363, F 
10.04b, ID: 612437, here\With your feet shoulder-width apart, take 2 
or 3 quick lead-up steps and jump as high 
as you can, as if you were going to dunk a 
basketball. Land softly and repeat.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
3b. Ankle jump \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9331, 
F 10.03f, ID: 612434, here\This exercise is like skipping rope. Stand 
with your feet shoulder-width apart. Using 
only your ankles, push off the ground into 
the air as if skipping a rope. Get as high as 
you can on each jump without your heels 
touching the ground. No rest between 
reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5-10
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5-10
JUMP 4: DOUBLE-LEG JUMP FROM  
RUNNING START WORKOUT
This basic 4-week program develops power for all double-leg jumping from a running start. 
This is one of our favorite workouts at IHP because we have really cool leg presses and various 
other pieces of power equipment. Like the previous workout, this workout can be used with 
low intensity for a beginner or ramped up in loads and amplitude for pro athletes. The sequence 
format is used: Perform the A exercise, rest 1 min, perform the B exercise, and rest 2-3 min before 
going back to the A exercise. Perform each B exercise with a maximum effort, and rest 3-5 sec 
between each rep to ensure maximal training intensity. At IHP we prefer the sequence method, 
but you can also perform this workout in succession and complete the prescribed sets and reps 
of each exercise before going on to the next exercise.
Equipment
Barbell, Smith machine, standing calf machine, leg press machine, plyometric box, dumbbells
Notes
Rest for 1 min between the A and B exercises in each complex. Rest 2-3 min between each complex.Table 10.3 Jump 3: Double-Leg Jumping With Running Start Home Workout (continued)


159Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2a. Leg half-press \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9374, F 
10.04c, ID: 612438, here\Sit in a leg press machine with your feet 
shoulder-width apart on the platform. Hold 
on to the handles at your sides and push 
through your heels until your knees have 
slight flexion. Lower the platform until your 
knees are about 90-110 degrees flexed. 
Quickly push the sled back to the starting 
position. Repeat. Use a heavy weight that 
allows you to perform 7-8 reps. Since some 
jumps require taking off from the balls of 
the feet, you may drive the leg press from 
the balls of the feet.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
2b. Double-leg 
lead-up box jump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9422, F 
10.04d, ID: 612439, here\With your feet shoulder-width apart, take 2 
or 3 quick steps toward a plyometric box. 
Jump onto the box, landing softly. Step 
down and repeat. Use a box that allows 
you to land with your knees slightly bent.  
Also try approaching the box from different 
angles.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5
3a. DB lateral 
reaching lunge\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9303, F 
10.04e, ID: 612440, here\Stand upright, your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Hold one dumbbell in each hand at 
chest level. Step to your right with your 
right leg, bending at the hips, and reach 
with the dumbbell to your right foot. Push 
off with your right leg back to the starting 
position and repeat to the left. Use a heavy 
weight that allows you to perform 7-10 reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
3b. MB lateral 
step and rim 
touch\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9315, F 
10.03b, ID: 612430, here\Stand underneath a basketball hoop and 
hold a medicine ball at chest level. Take a 
lateral step to your right. Immediately jump 
explosively into the air and touch the rim 
with the medicine ball. Repeat to the left 
side. You may use a wall if you cannot jump 
high enough to touch a rim. Use a light ball 
(1-2 lb [1 kg]) that allows you to jump high.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side


160Table 10.5 Jump 5: Single-Leg Jump From Running Start Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Single-leg DB 
step-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_7310, 
F 10.05a, ID: 612443, here\Stand upright, holding a dumbbell in each 
hand and facing a plyometric box. Place 
your left foot on the plyometric box. Push 
through your left heel, raising your body 
and right leg onto the plyometric box. Step 
off the plyometric box with your right foot 
first back to the starting position. Perform 
all repetitions leading with your left foot, 
then switch to leading with your right foot. 
Use a heavy weight that allows you to 
perform 7-8 reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
1b. Single-leg hop \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9495, 
F 10.05b, ID: 612444, here\Balance on your right leg. Using only 
your right leg, push off in a heel-to-toes 
fashion and hop in a straight line. Perform 
for desired reps, then repeat with your 
left leg. Hop for distance each time with 
minimum ground contact time.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
2a. Single-leg MB 
wood chop\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9502, 
F 10.05c, ID: 612445, here\Stand on your right leg and hold a medi -
cine ball in both hands overhead. Slightly 
squat and lower the medicine ball toward 
your right foot. Return to the starting 
position, raising the medicine ball above 
your head. Perform all repetitions while 
balancing on your right leg, then switch 
to your left leg. Use a heavy weight that 
allows you to perform 7-8 reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
JUMP 5: SINGLE-LEG JUMP FROM  
RUNNING START WORKOUT
This basic 4-week program develops power in single-leg jumps from a running start. This simple 
but very effective workout uses body weight, medicine balls, and dumbbells. However, do not 
let the simplicity of the workout fool you. I use this workout with elite high school and college 
athletes, and it works like a charm! The sequence format is used: Perform the A exercise, rest 
1 min, perform the B exercise, and rest 2-3 min before going back to the A exercise. Perform 
each B exercise with a maximum effort, and rest 5-10 sec between each rep to ensure maximal 
training intensity. At IHP we prefer the sequence method for complex training, but you can also 
perform this workout in succession fashion and complete the prescribed sets and reps of each 
exercise before going on to the next exercise.
Equipment
Dumbbells, plyometric box, medicine ball, low hurdles
Notes
Rest for 1 min between the A and B exercises in each complex. Rest 2-3 min between each complex.

161 Jumping
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. Power skip \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9536, 
F 10.05d, ID: 612446, here\Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart 
and your elbows at 90 degrees. Keeping 
your elbows at 90 degrees, simultaneously 
raise your right knee and swing your left 
arm forward, launching your body up and 
forward. Land on your left foot and immedi -
ately step onto your right foot. Perform the 
skipping sequence to the other side of the 
body. Continue alternating legs in a skipping 
motion, always moving the lower and upper 
body in opposition. Skip for distance each 
time with minimum ground contact time.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
3a. DB rear lunge \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8542, 
F 10.05e, ID: 612447, here\Stand with your feet shoulder-width 
apart and hold a dumbbell in each hand 
at your sides. Step backward into a lunge 
with your right leg. Return to the starting 
position and repeat, lunging backward 
with your left leg. Use a heavy weight that 
allows you to perform 7-8 reps.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
3b. Single-leg low-
hurdle jump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9610, 
F 10.05f, ID: 612448, here\Set up 5 hurdles (6-8 in. [15-20 cm]) 2-3 
ft (1 m) apart. Balance on your right leg in 
front of the first hurdle. Using only your 
right leg, push through your heel and toes 
and jump over each hurdle until you jump 
all 5 hurdles. Turn around and repeat, 
jumping off your left leg. Jump with mini -
mum ground contact time.Weeks 1-2 2 × 5 per side
Weeks 3-4 3 × 5 per side
Summary
This chapter includes some of the most effective jumping workouts I have used at IHP 
over the last 20 years. Although many seem simple, our coaching and insistence on 
perfect execution make these workouts extremely powerful. Whether it’s a double-leg 
jump or a single-leg jump, these workouts deliver quick results in a safe and effective 
manner. No high-level plyometric training is needed in order to participate in effec-
tive and advanced power training, and these workouts are proof of that. The complex 
methods introduced in this book increase not only the effectiveness of power training, 
but they do so with an inclusion of strength training, an added bonus and why I prefer 
this method of power development. Take any of these workouts for a test drive, and 
you will be amazed at the gains in your vertical jumping capacity.

This page intentionally left blank

163
CHAPTER 11
Speed
If any athletic attribute can topple jumping in terms of popularity, running speed 
has to be it. Speed is, without a doubt, the most sought-after physical attribute 
that athletes ask for at IHP . It does not matter if the athletes play football, soccer, 
basketball, rugby, or lacrosse or run track and field or even a triathlon, they all ask for 
more speed. Traditionally, the enhancement of locomotive speed was approached by 
improving leg power through traditional lifts (e.g., squat, clean, deadlift, leg press) 
and various running drills (e.g., skips, hops, jumps, and bounds). The speed, agility, 
and quickness training popularized by Randy Smyth in the late 1980s and early 1990s 
brought attention to the training of speed. Speed training provided by sprint coaches 
and U.S.A. Track and Field contributed to the body of knowledge about making athletes 
faster. Most recently functional training added to the training options available and 
forced us to look at training more realistically and practically, question tradition, and 
dare to try new training methods. This chapter provides the new flavor of functional 
training for speed mixed into the traditional training for speed.
The most common characteristic of human locomotion is that it occurs a single 
leg at a time. If the main training principle is the specificity principle of training, we 
must ask why practically all strength training intended to improve leg strength for the 
enhancement of running speed has been done on two legs. I don’t know the reason, 
and it does not matter. At IHP , we broke the tradition a long time ago, and I outlined 
our approach to single-leg training in my 2001 NSCA Strength and Conditioning Journal 
article, “Single-Leg Training for 2-Legged Sports: Efficacy of Strength Development 
in Athletic Performance.” In that article, as well as in Functional Training , I show how 
running is all about single-leg (e.g., the 7-frame) strength and power. As a matter of 
fact, changes of direction and all rotating sport skills depend on single-leg strength 
and power and lots of rotation.
The functional training movement paid specific attention to this single-leg phenom -
enon. However, at times, it’s been lost in flexibility, balance, and all the “proprioceptively 
enriched” verbiage. At IHP , we improve running by developing single-leg stiffness 
at very conservative flexion angles at the ankles, knees, and hips. When you look at 
running, you will never see deep positions or extreme ranges of motion at any of these 
joints. You see them generating enormous forces like springs: tight ranges with a lot 
of power are being driven through these joints. Therefore, in this chapter, you will 
see many partial-range-of-motion strength training and a lot of single-leg training.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 164
Equipment varies from body weight to the standard functional favorites, such as 
medicine balls, stability balls, bands, and dumbbells. However, I also include more 
specialized equipment, such as leg press machines, shuttles, sleds, and even trucks 
and cars so you can experience the breadth of IHP training. Yes, I said trucks and cars! 
If you want a peek at what we have been doing at IHP since 2001 for running speed, 
search YouTube for “truck push at IHP” (https:/ /www.youtube.com/watch?v=fhS3E_
NGQME), and you will see how everyone uses a Lincoln Navigator to specifically 
improve leg strength for running speed and pushing power. Don’t worry; I always 
offer alternatives in case you don’t have some of this specialized equipment.
The format of the workouts in this chapter range from the complex model used for 
jumping workouts to the more standard succession format using strength and func -
tional exercises. However, I am adding a twist to this chapter, since running speed 
is such a coveted athletic ability. I’m adding a supplemental protocol for everyone 
Triple Threat
The triple threat is a combination of three stability ball exercises in succession, con -
sisting of the SB bridge (figure 11.1), the SB leg curl (figure 11.2), and the SB hip lift 
(figure 11.3). This protocol keeps constant tension on the hamstrings by requiring 
the hips to come up and remain off the floor during the entire protocol.
Begin the progression by using both legs 
simultaneously. On week 1, perform 3 sets of 5 
repetitions for each exercise in sequence without 
rest. Perform 15 nonstop repetitions per set—5 
bridges, 5 leg curls, walk the ball out, and per -
form 5 hip lifts (this is a triple threat set). Rest 
1 to 2 minutes between each triple threat set. 
Each week, add 2 repetitions to each exercise. 
By week 10, you will be doing 15 repetitions of 
each exercise, 45 continuous repetitions per triple 
threat set, for 3 sets. On week 11, the progression 
gets much more interesting; it goes to single-leg 
work. The repetition and set scheme starts at 
week 1 again. Perform 15 nonstop repetitions 
per set per leg—5 bridges, 5 leg curls, walk the 
ball out, and perform 5 hip lifts (this is a triple 
threat set). Perform the same sequence with the 
other leg. Each week, add 2 repetitions to each 
exercise. Since one leg is resting while the other 
is exercising, there is no need to rest between 
sets. By week 20, you are doing 15 repetitions 
of each exercise, 45 continuous repetitions per 
set, for 3 sets, on each leg. This workout can be 
performed 2 or 3 times per week for an eternity 
and will give you hamstrings of steel! We have 
not had hamstring pulls at IHP since we started 
to use the triple threat with our other single-leg 
protocols.
Figure 11.3 SB hip lift.Figure 11.2 SB leg curl.Figure 11.1 SB bridge.

165 Speed
performing any one of these workouts: the famous triple threat. The triple threat was 
also featured in the 2001 NSCA Strength and Conditioning Journal article “Hamstrings 
of Steel: Preventing the Pull, Part II—Training the ‘Triple Threat’” (volume 23, issue 1, 
page 18) and Functional Training .
I have added a couple killer warm-up workouts that will add speed. These warm-ups 
excite the CNS and add a little spring to your ankles and knees. All athletes can use 
these simple warm-ups to prepare for speed workouts and improve running speed. 
These protocols are much more effective than jogging on a treadmill or even stretch -
ing for 5 to 10 minutes.
WARM-UP FOR LINEAR SPEED
Double-leg weighted rope jump (ropes of 1-2 lb [1 kg]) 2 × 20-30
Single-leg weighted rope jump (ropes of 0.5-1 lb [0.2-1 kg)) 2 × 10-20 per leg
Single-leg anterior reach 2 × 10 per leg
Single-leg band-resisted knee-up 2 × 10 per leg
V-up 2 × 10
WARM-UP FOR LATERAL SPEED AND CHANGES OF DIRECTION
Double-leg weighted rope jump (ropes of 1-2 lb [1 kg]) 2 × 20-30
Single-leg weighted rope jump (ropes of 0.5-1 lb [0.2-1 kg]) 2 × 10-20 per leg
MB 3D reaching lunge 2 × 6 (3 per side): 6 anterior, 6 lateral, and 6 rotational
Skater 2 × 10 (5 per side)
Single-leg lateral band-resisted knee-up 2 × 10
X-up 2 × 10
Just these warm-ups and the triple threat alone are enough to improve anyone’s 
speed. However, when you combine them with the workouts in this chapter, there 
is no telling the improvements you will experience in your running speed. Many of 
our high school athletes attribute these workouts to allowing them to be recruited by 
some of the top universities in the country, with full-ride scholarships. Now, if that’s 
not exciting, I don’t know what is. Try some of these workouts and see where they 
take your speed.
SPEED 1: BIOMOTOR SKILL SPEED WORKOUT
This 4-week program focuses on developing biomotor skills through light plyometrics. Once you 
establish a good base of training (complete 4 weeks), you can even use a reduced volume version 
of this workout as a warm-up to running drills and skills training. This is a perfect workout for 
any person wanting to improve running mechanics and speed, such as recreational runners and 
field and court athletes. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 
should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Wall
Notes
Perform 2-4 times per week.SPEED WORKOUTS

166Table 11.1 Speed 1: Biomotor Skill Speed Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Ankling
 This exercise is a fast, low-amplitude run 
using only the balls of your feet. Stand 
with your feet shoulder-width apart. Using 
only dorsiflexion and plantar flexion of 
your ankles, pull one heel off the ground. 
Continue alternating ankles in a running 
motion.Week 1 2 × 15 yd (14 m)
Week 2 3 × 20 yd (18 m)
Week 3 4 × 20 yd (18 m)
Week 4 4 × 25 yd (23 m)
2. Frankenstein run
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart and your arms extended out 
in front. Keeping your legs straight, bring 
your leg up to your hand with each step. 
Lower your leg back to the ground and 
repeat with the other leg.Week 1 2 × 15 yd (14 m)
Week 2 3 × 20 yd (18 m)
Week 3 4 × 20 yd (18 m)
Week 4 4 × 25 yd (23 m)
3. Wall run
 Place your hands on a wall and lean into 
it at a 45-70-degree angle. As you quickly 
run in place, drive your knees up toward 
the wall. Repeat for desired reps.Week 1 2 × 3 per side
Week 2 3 × 5 per side 
Week 3 4 × 7 per side 
Week 4 4 × 9 per side 
4. Power skip
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Begin skipping, making sure 
to push through your toes, driving your 
knee up each time and gaining distance. 
Repeat for the desired reps or distance.Week 1 2 × 15 per side
Week 2 3 × 20 yd (18 m)
Week 3 4 × 20 yd (18 m)
Week 4 4 × 25 yd (23 m)
5. Single-leg hop
 Stand upright, balancing on one leg. Using 
just this leg, hop for the desired distance. 
Repeat using the other leg.Week 1 2 × 10 yd (9 m)
Week 2 3 × 15 yd (14 m)
Week 3 4 × 20 yd (18 m)
Week 4 4 × 20 yd (18 m)

167SPEED 2: RUNNING POWER GYM WORKOUT
This 4-week program develops running power. As written, you will need lifting equipment close 
to a running area. Perform the A exercise, rest 1-2 min, then perform the B exercise. If your 
facility doesn’t allow this set-up, perform 1a, 2a, 3a, and 3b in the weight area, then go to the 
running area and perform 1b and 2b. This workout is very effective in developing top-end speed 
and is also a great workout for endurance runners, especially those who run hills. Weeks 1 and 
2 will be enough for most people. Weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by college-level and 
professional athletes who have several years of training experience.
Equipment
Sled, weights, treadmill (optional), leg press machine, start blocks, band (such as JC Sport or 
Predator), power slings, dumbbells
Notes
For the single-leg ball-of-foot leg press, band-resisted stationary A run, and running curl, the 
repetition range or time drops from week to week. For these exercises, the weights used must 
go up in order to keep the exercise challenging and strength gains continuous.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (very advanced trainees only).Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
6. 45-degree calf 
pump
Place your hands on a wall and lean into 
it at a 45-70-degree angle. Balance on 
the ball of your left foot, and bring your 
right leg up in a knee-up, toe-up fashion. 
Perform mini ankle extensions (pumps). 
Repeat using the other leg.Week 1 2 × 10 per leg
Week 2 3 × 20 per leg
Week 3 4 × 30 per leg
Week 4 4 × 40 per leg
Table 11.2 Speed 2: Running Power Gym Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Sled run
 Load the sled with a weight that allows 
you to run. Attach the sled to your waist 
via a power sling and face away from 
the sled. Run as fast as possible, pulling 
the sled behind you for the prescribed 
distance. Pull a small tire if you don’t have 
a sled.Week 1 2 × 15 yd (14 m)
Week 2 3 × 20 yd (18 m)
Week 3 4 × 20 yd (18 m)
Week 4 4 × 25 yd (23 m)
1b. 30-yard run A treadmill can be used, if you prefer. Run 
slowly for the first 10 yd (9 m). Increase 
your speed for the second 10 yd (9 m) and 
sprint the last 10 yd (9 m) at 100% speed. 
Build to your top speed. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 30 yd
Week 2 3 × 30 yd
Week 3 4 × 30 yd
Week 4 4 × 30 yd
(continued)

168Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2a. Single-leg ball-
of-foot leg pressSit on the leg press machine, planting one 
foot on the platform. Using just the ball of 
your foot, extend your knee, pushing on 
the platform. Do not lock out your knee. 
After the leg is extended, flex the knee and 
lower the weight until the knee is flexed 
to 90 degrees. Repeat for the desired 
number of reps, then switch to the other 
leg.Week 1 2 × 10 per side
Week 2 3 × 8 per side 
Week 3 4 × 6 per side 
Week 4 4 × 4 per side 
2b. 10-yard start Position yourself in the start blocks. 
Explode out of the blocks by staying low 
and driving your leading knee. Make sure 
to stay low for the entire 10 yd (9 m) as 
you sprint.Week 1 2
Week 2 3
Week 3 4
Week 4 4
3a. Band-resisted 
stationary A run
Put a band around your waist with the 
anchor point behind you. Make sure there 
is tension in the band to start. Run in 
place while resisting the band, driving 
your knees up with each step. Stay on the 
balls of your feet the whole time.Week 1 2 × 15 sec
Week 2 3 × 15 sec
Week 3 4 × 10 sec
Week 4 4 × 10 sec
3b. Running curl
 Hold a dumbbell in each hand while stand -
ing in place with your feet shoulder-width 
apart. Pump your arms as if running, 
keeping your lower body still. Focus on 
controlling the pushing and pulling with 
speed.Week 1 2 × 15 sec
Week 2 3 × 15 sec
Week 3 4 × 10 sec
Week 4 4 × 10 secTable 11.2 Speed 2: Running Power Gym Workout (continued)
SPEED 3: LATERAL SPEED  
AND LATERAL CHANGES OF DIRECTION WORKOUT
This 4-week program improves lateral speed and lateral changes of directions. Similar to speed 
workout 1, you can use a reduced-volume version of this workout as a warm-up to running drills 
on your lateral speed days. This is a perfect workout to improve the quickness needed in short 
lateral changes of direction in court sports such as tennis and basketball. Weeks 1 and 2 will be 
enough for most people. Weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by college-level and profes -
sional athletes who have several years of training experience.
Equipment
None
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (very advanced trainees only).


169Table 11.3 Speed 3: Lateral Speed and Lateral Changes of Direction Workout 
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Carioca
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart, a slight bend in your knees. 
Put the right foot on the starting line and 
left foot downfield. Cross your right foot 
in front of your left foot with your arms at 
your sides. Then take your left foot and 
step out to the side, while taking your right 
foot and crossing it behind you. Continue 
moving laterally for the desired distance. 
Repeat for the desired distance, switching 
direction each time.  Week 1 1 × 15 yd (14 m) 
per side
Week 2 1 × 20 yd (18 m) 
per side
Week 3 2 × 20 yd (18 m) 
per side
Week 4 3 × 25 yd (23 m) 
per side
2. Lateral shuffle
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart, the right foot on the starting 
line and the left foot downfield. Bend your 
knees slightly. Take a long lateral step with 
your left foot. While staying in a low posi -
tion, take a step with your right foot to the 
original athletic position. Repeat taking 
lateral shuffles as fast as you can control.Week 1 1 × 15 yd (14 m) 
per side
Week 2 1 × 20 yd (18 m) 
per side
Week 3 2 × 20 yd (18 m) 
per side
Week 4 3 × 25 yd (23 m) 
per side
3. Side push-off 
skip (no crossover)
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart, a slight bend in the knees. Put 
your right foot on the starting line and the 
left foot downfield. Start skipping in place 
to get your rhythm. Once you establish 
your rhythm, push off with your right leg 
laterally to your left so that each skip with 
your right leg launches you further down -
field to your left. Complete the desired 
distance, then switch directions and skip 
to the other side. Week 1 1 × 15 yd (14 m) 
per side
Week 2 1 × 20 yd (18 m) 
per side
Week 3 2 × 20 yd (18 m) 
per side
Week 4 3 × 25 yd (23 m) 
per side
4. Crossover skip
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart, a slight bend in the knees. Put 
your right foot on the starting line and the 
left foot downfield. Start skipping in place 
to get your rhythm. Once you establish 
your rhythm, skip your right foot across 
and in front of your left foot, and skip 
your left leg downfield. Continue to skip 
laterally downfield to your left, with your 
right foot always going over your left foot. 
Move your arms as if running. Complete 
the desired distance, then switch direc -
tions, skipping to the other side.Week 1 1 × 15 yd (14 m) 
per side
Week 2 1 × 20 yd (18 m) 
per side
Week 3 2 × 20 yd (18 m) 
per side
Week 4 3 × 25 yd (23 m) 
per side
5. Skater
 Start in a half squat with your feet 
shoulder-width apart. Jump to your left, 
landing on your left foot, while bringing 
your right leg across and behind your 
left leg, without touching the floor. Once 
stable, jump back to your right, landing on 
your right foot as your left leg goes behind 
your right leg. Repeat the skating motion.Week 1 1 × 5 per side
Week 2 1 × 7 per side
Week 3 2 × 10 per side
Week 4 3 × 12 per side

170SPEED 4: LATERAL SPEED AND CHANGES OF DIRECTION
This 4-week program develops lateral speed and lateral changes of direction. As written, you will 
need lifting equipment close to an area for running. Perform the A exercise, rest 1-2 min, and 
then perform the B exercise. If your facility doesn’t allow this set-up, perform 1a, 2a, 3a, and 3b 
in the weight area, then go to the running area of the facility to perform 1b and 2b. This work -
out is very effective in developing top-end speed and is a great workout for endurance runners, 
especially those who run hills. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 
and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training 
base such as college and professional athletes.
Equipment
Band; slide board; sled; weights; chain, rope, or heavy nylon strap; belt (such as JC Power Sling); 
small hurdles; wall; stability ball
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (very advanced trainees only).
Table 11.4 Speed 4: Lateral Speed and Changes of Direction
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Band-resisted 
unilateral slide
Use a band that does not allow you to get 
to the other side of the slide. Put a band 
around your waist and stand on a slide 
board, with the anchor point of the band to 
the right side. Get into a quarter squat and 
and push off your right foot while the band 
resists. Get as far as you can while stay -
ing in a wide athletic position, then slide 
back to the stopping block. Repeat for the 
desired number of repetitions, then switch 
to the other side.Week 1 2 × 8-10 per side
Week 2 3 × 10 per side
Week 3 4 × 5-7 per side
Week 4 4 × 8-10 per side
1b. Band-resisted 
shuffle runPut a band around your waist with the 
anchor point of the band to the right side. 
Get into a quarter squat and push off your 
right foot, shuffling to your left for 3-4 yd 
(3-4 m). Shuffle back to the starting posi -
tion and repeat. Perform to other side.Week 1 2 × 3-4 yd (3-4 m)
Week 2 3 × 3-4 yd (3-4 m)
Week 3 4 × 3-4 yd (3-4 m)
Week 4 5 × 3-4 yd (3-4 m)
2a. Lateral sled 
pull
You can use a heavy tire or other weighted 
object. Load your sled with the desired 
weight and attach a chain, rope, or heavy 
nylon strap to a belt that wraps around 
your waist, such as a sling. Stand with the 
sled to your left. Get into a quarter squat 
and push off your left foot as you take a 
wide step to your right. Continue to step to 
your right for the desired distance. Repeat 
on the other side.Week 1 2 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 2 3 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 3 4 × 7 yd (6 m)
Week 4 5 × 10 yd (9 m)


171SPEED 5: ACCELERATION WORKOUT
This 4-week program develops acceleration. It calls for some special equipment, but you can 
always substitute as needed. For example, if you don’t have a Smith machine for the rear lunge, 
use dumbbells or even heavy medicine balls. As written, you will need lifting equipment close to 
an area for running. Perform the A exercise, rest 1-2 min, and then perform the B exercise. If your 
facility doesn’t allow this set-up, perform 1a and 2a, then go to the running area of the facility 
to perform 1b, 2b, 3a, and 3b. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 
and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training 
base such as college and professional athletes.
Equipment
Smith machine, treadmill, leg press machine, small hurdles, car or truck, start blocks, step and risers
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (very advanced trainees only).Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
2b. Single-leg 
lateral two-hurdle 
hop to 5-yard 
sprint
Balance on your right leg, with 2 hurdles 
to your left. Using your right leg, laterally 
hop over the 2 hurdles with control. As 
you land after hopping over the second 
hurdle, explode into a sprint for 5 yd (5 m). 
Repeat on the other side.Week 1 2 × 5 yd (5 m) per 
side
Week 2 3 × 5 yd (5 m) per 
side
Week 3 4 × 5 yd (5 m) per 
side
Week 4 5 × 5 yd (5 m) per 
side
3a. SB single-leg 
lateral wall slide 
(inner and outer 
leg)
Stand with a wall to your left and place a 
stability ball under your left armpit between 
you and the wall. Place your left hand on 
the wall for balance. Walk your feet to the 
right to create a comfortable lean. Balanc -
ing on your right leg (outer leg), perform 
5 short squats (quarter to half squats) 
with your right leg. Balance on your left 
leg (inner leg) and perform 5 short squats 
(quarter to half squats) with your left leg. 
Repeat with the wall on your right side.Week 1 2 × 5 per side
Week 2 3 × 7 per side
Week 3 4 × 10 per side
Week 4 5 × 10 per side
3b. Skater to 
lateral run
Balance on your right leg. Perform a skater 
jump to the left leg, a skater jump to the 
right, and a skater jump to the left. As 
soon as you land the last jump on your 
left leg, explode into a sprint to your right. 
Sprint for 5 yards. Repeat.Week 1 2 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 2 3 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 3 4 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 4 5 × 5 yd (5 m)

172Table 11.5 Speed 5: Acceleration Workout 
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1a. Smith machine 
running step
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart and the Smith machine bar 
on your shoulders. Using your right leg, 
step back into a lunge while lowering the 
bar. Return your right leg to the starting 
position, then step back with your left leg. 
Repeat.Week 1 2 × 10 per side 
Week 2 3 × 8 per side
Week 3 4 × 6 per side
Week 4 5 × 6 per side
1b. Incline run Set a treadmill at a 30- to 50-degree 
incline and a pace you can run. Run for 5 
sec at your max speed. Dismount using 
handles and place feet on side footrails 
after each set to rest. Repeat for desired 
reps.Week 1 2 × 5 sec
Week 2 3 × 5 sec
Week 3 4 × 5 sec
Week 4 5 × 5 sec
2a. Single-leg leg 
press from toes
Sit in the leg press machine, planting one 
foot on the platform. Extend your knee, 
pushing on the platform and extend -
ing through your toes. After your leg is 
extended, flex your knee by lowering 
yourself back to the starting position. 
Repeat for the desired number of reps, 
then switch to the other leg. Do not lock 
out your knee; make sure to have a soft 
knee.Week 1 2 × 10 per side 
Week 2 3 × 8 per side
Week 3 4 × 6 per side
Week 4 5 × 6 per side
2b. Single-leg hop 
to 5-yard sprint
Balance on your right leg. Using your right 
leg, hop forward with control. As soon as 
you land, explode into a sprint for 5 yd (5 
m). Repeat on the other side.Week 1 2 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 2 3 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 3 4 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 4 5 × 5 yd (5 m)
3a. Car or truck 
push start
Start behind a car or truck in neutral. Put 
your hands on the bumper, your body 
leaning about 45 degrees. Place your right 
foot forward, with your right knee bent 
about 90 degrees and your left leg back 
and almost straight. Drive hard with your 
legs to get the car or truck moving as fast 
as possible for 5 yd.Week 1 2 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 2 3 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 3 4 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 4 5 × 5 yd (5 m)
3b. Start off the 
blocks (< 5 yd)Position yourself in the start blocks. 
Explode out of the blocks by staying low 
and driving from the balls of your feet. 
Make sure to stay low for the entire 5 yd 
as you sprint.Week 1 2 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 2 3 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 3 4 × 5 yd (5 m)
Week 4 4 × 5 yd (5 m)

173 Speed
Summary
I hope you enjoy this new way of looking at running speed and improving it. I am 
certain the exercises in this chapter will make anyone faster. More than 3000 athletes 
have proven them very effective. Whether improving your first-step quickness, accel-
eration, or top running speed, the workouts in this chapter will help you attain your 
speed performance goals. These workouts also work wonders for injury prevention, 
especially hamstring and knee injuries, so you will stay healthy as you get faster. 
Share these workouts with your friends and teammates and make training for speed 
a group project. It will be a great experience for everyone.

This page intentionally left blank

175
CHAPTER 12
Agility
Agility is simply the ability to change body direction or position in a fast and 
fluid manner. Of all abilities that display athleticism, agility has to be it. 
Agility requires a blend of acceleration, deceleration, kinesthetic awareness, 
proprioception, quickness, explosiveness, and strength. That all these qualities can 
be required at any time and from any position makes them an essential part of any 
athlete’s arsenal. In my opinion, agility is often what determines success in sports.
Unlike human locomotion’s 7-frame (single-leg dominated), agility does not have 
a single characteristic, position, or quality that can be trained or focused on. It is a 
blend of many things, from a sense (e.g., kinesthesia) to a physical ability (e.g., power). 
Therefore, there is a ton of crossover from quickness drills, accelerations drills, speed 
drills, and reaction drills. This chapter provides a blend of the various forms of agili -
ties seen in sports and recreation activities. We have combined everything from level 
changes in a reaction format to tumbling drills for heavy kinesthetic training and 
total-body power. We have also added popular cone drills for changes of direction 
and conditioning, as well as agility ladder drills for foot quickness.
Ironically, two of the greatest advantages of agility training are related to its major 
disadvantage: variety and specificity. Yes, variety and specificity can make agility train -
ing fun and very effective. However, because of the infinite variety, poorly planned 
agility training may lead to training confusion and ridiculous exercises that better 
resemble circus acts.  Therefore, you can tailor any movement you need to make it an 
effective part of your training. Whether it’s a transition within a play—such as a line -
backer in American football getting up after being knocked down and running down 
the field to make a tackle or a tennis player slipping during a volley and regaining 
control to get to the ball and win the point—you can imitate any similar situation (or 
as close as possible) and rehearse it over and over again as part of your specific agility 
training. That’s the fun of agility training: You can tailor it to your very specific needs.
The equipment for agility training can certainly get complicated, but we feel controlling 
the body is the most important and easiest thing to work on, and it requires virtually no 
equipment. Therefore, most drills and workouts in this chapter use body weight, while 
a few workouts use inexpensive and simple equipment such as an agility ladder. Some 
drills can be performed with simple chalk or tape. If you are on a court or cement-type 
floor, you can use chalk or tape to create five-dot drills, hexagons, and ladders.
Many popular drills did not make it into this chapter, but the drills selected include 
significant parts or characteristics of some of the popular drills. For example, many 
of the ladder drills incorporate part of the hexagon drill, and many hurdle and cone 
drills incorporate the drills performed with dummies on the ground. Another advan -
tage of this comprehensive approach to training is using agility drills as warm-ups. 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 176
This approach to program design uses the agility warm-up to not only prepare the 
body for work but also supplement the workout. Often warm-ups are performed with 
no rhyme or reason and certainly lack intensity; it’s just something you do before a 
workout. Well, since time is as short and limited as the space in this book, we have to 
make the warm-up and cool-down count. We have added a few exercises in this sec -
tion that can be used as an agility warm-up. Start with them slowly and quickly pick 
up to maximum speed. This process can be extremely fast in warm weather climates, 
such as at IHP in Florida, where people walk around, sweating under a warm sun. 
You can select faster exercises for the warm-up, and slower exercises in the cool-down.
During advanced phases of training, we get busy during the cool-down and train 
quick, precise movements in a fatigued state. This approach teaches focus and perfect 
execution when fatigued. To use this method, you must have already perfected the 
exercises performed under fatigue. Also we often leave our short metabolic training 
for the very end and allow clients to cool down by simply walking around until they 
are back to normal. Using this approach, athletes get used to pushing while already 
tired. Intense training at the end of a workout is all part of redefining the human will.
The following two drills can be used individually or together as part of a workout, 
or as an agility warm-up. This is a great warm-up for biomotor skills training or agil -
ity ladder workout.
HEXAGON DRILL
Using chalk or athletic tape (if you don’t 
have a crooked stick), mark a hexagon (six-
sided shape) on the floor. The length of each 
side should be 24 in. (61 cm), and each angle 
should work out to be 120 degrees (figure 
12.1). Start with both feet together in the 
middle of the hexagon facing the front line. 
On the command “go,” jump forward across 
the line, then back over the same line into 
the middle of the hexagon. Then, continu-
ing to face forward with your feet together, 
jump over the next side and back into the 
hexagon. Continue this pattern for three full 
revolutions to complete one set. Perform sets 
in clockwise and counterclockwise direction. 
Perform 3-4 sets.
CROSS-ROTATIONAL JUMP DRILL
Using chalk or athletic tape (if you don’t have a crooked stick), mark a cross pattern of 
two perpendicular lines crossing each other (figure 12.2). Stand with a segment between 
your legs and the intersection and the other three segments in front of you; your left 
foot in box 1 and your right foot in box 2. Stand with your feet about shoulder-width 
apart and knees slightly bent. Jump with both feet to the right as you rotate left, land-
ing with your left foot in box 2 and your right foot in box 3. Jump again with both 
feet to the right as you rotate left; landing with your left foot in box 3 and your right 
foot in box 4. You are facing opposite where you started. Perform two more rotational 
jumps until you land in the starting position. Repeat counterclockwise to complete 
one repetition. Perform 2-4 repetitions per set. Perform 3-4 sets.
The next series of exercises is a sample of a great workout for beginners that can also 
serve as a warm-up or cool-down for more advanced individuals. These exercises make E7272/Santana/F12.01/609655/mh-R26 25 34
1Start
Figure 12.1 Hexagon.

177 Agility
up one of our favorite warm-ups for 
our athletes. Many of the moves fit 
in very nicely to all running-related 
biomotor skills. You can easily per -
form higher speed drills after these 
movements to prepare for more 
explosive work. When using this 
workout as a cool-down, you can 
choose to move slower with perhaps 
less volume. For example, perform 
only five minutes of work, but hold 
positions for a second and increase 
the flexibility component for the 
cool-down. What I like most about 
this application is that it falls in line 
with our concept of flexibility and 
strength being one.
REACHING LUNGE TO OVERHEAD 
REACH
Perform a long forward step with the 
right foot and reach with both hands to 
your right foot (figure 12.3). Step with the 
left foot to neutral and reach overhead 
with both arms. Repeat for 10 yards (9 
m). Next, perform a long left step and 
reach with both hands to your left foot, 
step with right foot to neutral with an 
overhead reach with both arms. Repeat 
for 10 yards (9 m).
LATERAL REACHING LUNGE TO 
OVERHEAD REACH
Perform a long lateral step to the left and 
reach with both hands to your left foot 
(figure 12.4). Step with your right foot 
to neutral and reach overhead with both 
arms. Repeat for 10 yards (9 m). Next, 
perform a long lateral step to the right and 
reach with both hands to your right foot. 
Step your left foot to neutral and reach 
overhead with both arms. Repeat for 10 
yards (9 m).Figure 12.2 Cross-rotational jump drill.
E7272/Santana/F12.02/609656/mh-R14
13
L
R
L
R
L
R
L
R2
Figure 12.3 Reaching lunge to 
overhead reach.
Figure 12.4 Lateral reaching lunge to 
overhead reach.


JC’s Total Body Transformation 178
LUNGE WITH ROTATION
Perform a right lunge with a right rotation 
(figure 12.5) and then a left lunge with a 
left rotation. Continue alternating right 
and left lunges with rotations for 10 yards 
(9 m) up and 10 yards (9 m) back.
EXAGGERATED LATERAL SHUFFLE 
WALK
Stand sideways to the starting line in a 
wide athletic position, your right foot on 
the starting line (figure 12.6). Take a big 
step to your left using your left leg, open-
ing up the adductors. Staying in a low 
position, take a step to your left with your 
right leg to return to the wide athletic posi-
tion. Repeat for 10 yards (9 m). Perform 10 
yards (9 m) to the other side.
EXAGGERATED CARIOCA WALK
Stand sideways to the starting line in a 
wide athletic position, your right foot on 
the starting line. Take a big crossover step 
(right leg over left leg) to your left using 
your right leg (figure 12.7). Keeping a low 
position, take a big lateral step with your 
left leg to return to the wide athletic posi-
tion. Take a big cross step behind to your 
left using your right leg (right leg behind 
left leg). Repeat for 10 yards (9 m). Perform 
10 yards (9 m) to the other side.Figure 12.5 Lunge with rotation.
Figure 12.7 Exaggerated carioca walk.
Figure 12.6 Exaggerated lateral shuffle 
walk.


179 Agility
SPIDER-MAN CRAWL
Start in a staggered hand push-up position 
with your right hand closer to your hips 
than your left hand. Put your right foot 
outside of your right hand (figure 12.8). 
Advance forward with your right hand 
as you place your left foot outside of your 
left hand. Advance forward with your left 
hand as you place your right foot outside 
of your right hand. Repeat for 10 yards (9 
m) up and 10 yards (9 m) back.
BEAR CRAWL
Stand with your feet together and knees 
straight. Place your hands flat in front of 
you as close to your feet as possible with-
out bending your knees. Keeping your 
knees straight and feet flat, walk like a 
bear, keeping your butt up, legs perfectly 
straight, and feet flat (figure 12.9). Repeat 
for 10 yards (9 m) up and 10 yards (9 m) 
back.
INCHWORM
Start in a bear crawl position (hands in 
front of flat feet, knees straight). Walk 
forward with your hands only, keeping 
your core tight and rolling to the balls of 
your feet (figure 12.10). Walk out as far as 
your core strength will allow without any 
back pressure or pain. Once you walk your 
hands out as far as possible, walk your 
feet toward your hands, keeping your legs 
straight, until the hamstrings can’t stretch 
anymore. Repeat for 10 yards (9 m) up and 
10 yards (9 m) back.Figure 12.8 Spider-Man crawl.
Figure 12.9 Bear crawl.
Figure 12.10 Inchworm.


JC’s Total Body Transformation 180
T PUSH-UP
Perform a push-up, then roll to one side 
as you reach the other arm up in the air 
so you are in a T position (figure 12.11). 
You should look like a cross resting on its 
side. Perform 5-10 repetitions to each side.
I have used some of these exercises 
as 10-minute warm-ups, 5-minute cool-
downs, and as 30-minute workouts with 
great results. However, when you combine 
a meaningful warm-up and cool-down 
with the more intense workouts in this 
chapter, then you are really cooking with 
gas. At IHP we do a ton of work with the 
local high schools, and these workouts 
pay huge dividends with young athletes. 
One of the issues we face with young athletes is early specialization in sports and not 
enough free play when young. Thus, we find incredible athletes who can do incredible 
things on the field of play, but they can’t skip, shuffle, or move their bodies through 
simple drills. The workouts in this chapter are perfect for those athletes. Even if you 
are coordinated or just want to add some diversity to your training, these workouts 
will provide incredible athleticism, prevent injuries, and burn a ton of fun calories.
One final note on the workouts in this chapter. These are 25- to 30-minute work -
outs, not 5- to 10-minute warm-ups. There is a lot of volume in the advanced versions 
of these workouts, and they are made that way for a reason. The way I see it, agility 
training is not supposed to be some hodgepodge of haphazard drills put together. 
You actually get in shape doing these long workouts. These workouts are effective in 
not only developing agility but also developing the ability to stay agile when you are 
tired, which is a big distinction. This intense and high-volume work is our version of 
what we call body hardening in martial arts, except without crushing your body with 
repetitive trauma. Most coaches don’t see training the way we see it at IHP , and our 
agility training programs are proof of this. Now, let’s get to work.Figure 12.11 T push-up.


181Table 12.1 Agility 1: Total-Body Awareness Tumbling Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. Forward roll \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0502, 
F 12.12a, ID: 612492, here\Initially use a four-point stance to begin 
until you can begin completely standing 
upright. Stand in a staggered stance with 
your right foot forward. Bend over and 
start to fall forward. As you are about to 
make contact with the ground, roll over 
your right shoulder. Come back up to your 
feet. Repeat and perform to both sides.Week 1 1 × 2
Week 2 2 × 2
Week 3 3 × 2
Week 4 2 × 4
2. Backward roll \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0512, 
F 12.12b, ID: 612493, here\Begin in a seated position until you can 
begin completely standing upright. From a 
standing staggered stance, bend your legs 
and start to sit on the ground behind you. 
As you are about to make contact with the 
ground, roll back over your right shoulder. 
Continue to roll and come up to your feet. 
Repeat and perform to both sides.Week 1 1 × 2
Week 2 2 × 2
Week 3 3 × 2
Week 4 2 × 4
3. Backward roll to 
push-off\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0552, 
F 12.12c, ID: 612494, here\From a standing staggered stance, bend 
your legs and start to sit on the ground 
behind you. As you are about to make con -
tact with the ground, roll back. Continue 
to roll as your feet come over your head. 
Press off using your hands as you roll 
back up to your feet. Repeat.Week 1 1 × 2
Week 2 1 × 3
Week 3 2 × 2
Week 4 2 × 3
AGILITY 1: TOTAL-BODY AWARENESS  
TUMBLING WORKOUT
This 4-week program focuses on total-body tumbling agility. Once you establish a good base 
of training (complete 3-4 weeks), you can use week 1 or 2 of this program as a warm-up for 
combat sports and other contact sports in which one falls and has to get up quickly. I have used 
this workout with all my field sport and combat athletes. I also think it should be mandatory for 
all children to learn basic tumbling drills. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while 
weeks 3 and 4 require increased physical endurance that comes from a more advanced training 
base. These drills can be done for distance, usually about 10 yd (9 m). However, if you have a 
shorter distance to work with, perform 2 or 3 reps per side of the body per set (4-6 reps total).
Equipment
Small object or partner
Notes
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 3 or 4 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 2 or 3 times per week (for very advanced trainees only).AGILITY WORKOUTS
(continued)


182Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
4. Forward roll 
over object\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0566, 
F 12.12d, ID: 612495, here\Set up a barrier that is knee- to hip-height, 
such as a hurdle or partner on hands and 
knees. Take a few steps and take off from 
your right foot, flying over the barrier. 
Land by rolling over your right shoulder 
to come back up to your feet. Repeat and 
perform on both sides.Week 1 1 × 2 per side
Week 2 2 × 2 per side
Week 3 3 × 2 per side
Week 4 2 × 4 per side
5. Cartwheel \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0613, 
F 12.12e, ID: 612496, here\From an open stance, laterally flex to the 
left and put your left hand on the ground. 
Continue to turn, putting your right hand 
on the other side of your left hand as you 
kick off the ground with your feet, lifting 
them toward the ceiling. As your feet go 
over you, your right foot lands and then 
your left foot lands on the other side. 
Repeat.Week 1 1 × 2 per side
Week 2 2 × 2 per side
Week 3 3 × 2 per side
Week 4 2 × 4 per side
6. Roundoff \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0640, 
F 12.12f, ID: 612497, here\From a standing staggered stance, later -
ally flex to the left and put your left hand 
on the ground. Continue to turn, putting 
your right hand on the other side of your 
left hand as you kick off the ground with 
your feet, lifting them toward the ceiling. 
As your feet go over you, rotate the body 
and land with both feet facing the starting 
position. Repeat.Week 1 1 × 2 per side
Week 2 2 × 2 per side
Week 3 3 × 2 per side 
Week 4 2 × 4 per side
AGILITY 2: RUNNING AGILITY
This 4-week agility program focuses on running agility, and it is a monster conditioning work -
out. I’ve included some of the most popular agility tests and drills we have used over the last 15 
years. It begins with a low volume of work so you have time to learn and perfect the drills, but 
eventually this workout becomes a high-volume training session that will condition any athlete. 
This workout has helped some of our high school athletes prepare to be highly recruited by top 
universities, and their coaches believe our conditioning is a big part of their athletes’ successes. 
Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only 
by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Chalk, cones, or tape to mark lines
Notes
Rest 60-120 sec between repetitions. Rest 2-3 min between sets.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 3 or 4 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 2 or 3 times per week (for very advanced trainees only).Table 12.1 Agility 1: Total-Body Awareness Tumbling Workout (continued)

183Table 12.2 Agility 2: Running Agility Workout
Exercise Instructions Weeks Reps
1. 20-yard pro 
agility drillMark 3 lines 5 yd (5 m) apart. Stand in a staggered stance, straddling 
the starting line (the middle line). Turn to the right, sprint, and touch a 
line 5 yd (5 m) away with your right hand. Turn back to the left, sprint 
10 yd (9 m), and touch the far line with your left hand. Turn back to the 
right, sprint 5 yd (5 m) though the start line to the finish. Repeat.Week 1 1
Week 2 2
Week 3 2
Week 4 3
2. T-drill Set up 3 cones in a line 5 yd (5 m) apart. Set up a fourth cone 10 yd 
(9 m) from the center cone. Stand in a staggered stance at the fourth 
cone. Sprint forward 10 yd (9 m) to the center cone, then side shuffle 
to the right 5 yd (5 m) and touch the far cone with your left hand. 
Shuffle back to the right for 5 yd (5 m) to the center cone. Touch the 
center cone, then backpedal 10 yd (9 m) to the starting position at the 
fourth cone. Repeat alternating the order of turns at the top of the T.Week 1 1
Week 2 2
Week 3 2
Week 4 3
3. Squirm drill Stand in a staggered stance. Sprint forward 5 yd (5 m), then rotate 
360 degrees and sprint another 5 yd (5 m). Rotate 360 degrees again 
and sprint another 5 yd (5 m). Sprint right or left for 10 yd (9 m). 
Return to the starting point and repeat.Week 1 1
Week 2 2
Week 3 2
Week 4 3
4. 40-yard ladder 
drillMark 3 lines: a starting line, the first line 5 yd (5 m) from the start -
ing line, and the second line 5 yd (5 m) from the first line. Stand in 
a staggered stance. Sprint 5 yd (5 m) to the first line, touch the line 
with your right hand, return to the starting line, and touch it with 
your left hand. Sprint 10 yd (9 m) to the second line, touch with your 
right hand, return to the starting line, and touch it with your left hand. 
Sprint 5 yd (5 m) to the first line, touch the line with your right hand, 
and return to the starting line. Repeat.Week 1 1
Week 2 1
Week 3 2
Week 4 2
AGILITY 3: AGILITY LADDER WORKOUT
This 4-week program focuses on foot quickness and agility using an agility ladder. If you don’t 
have an agility ladder, draw one with chalk if you are on concrete or mark it with tape if you are 
on another type of flooring. Just make sure you can clean the surface you are working on and 
restore it to the original condition. We begin using 10 yd (9 m) (full ladder) to teach the skill, 
which allows us to get the necessary reps in for learning and conditioning. Once our athletes are 
comfortable with the correct form, we reduce the length to 5 yd (5 m) (half the ladder) and work 
on all-out efforts each rep. We even add reactive sprints to a half-ladder drill for more specific 
reactive work and conditioning. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 
4 should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Agility ladder
Notes
Rest 15-30 sec between repetitions. Rest 2-3 min between exercises. When performing agility 
ladders drills, try to look ahead of the ladder and not at the ground.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (very advanced trainees only).

184Table 12.3 Agility 3: Agility Ladder Workout
Exercise Instructions Weeks Reps
1. Run through Run through an agility ladder as fast as possible, 
touching one foot down between each rung. Empha -
size a high knee lift and quick ground reaction. Repeat.Week 1 2 full ladders
Week 2 3 full ladders
Week 3 4 half ladders
Week 4 6 half ladders
2. Lateral run Stand lateral to the agility ladder. Laterally run through 
an agility ladder as fast as possible, touching one foot 
down between each rung. Emphasize a high knee lift 
and quick ground reaction. Repeat.Week 1 2 full ladders
Week 2 3 full ladders
Week 3 4 half ladders
Week 4 6 half ladders
3. Split step Start in a two-point stance at one end of the agility 
ladder. Keeping both feet together, jump into the first 
square. Jump to straddle the next line, with your feet 
outside the ladder. Jump into the second square with 
both feet. Repeat, alternating feet together and feet 
apart down the ladder.Week 1 2 full ladders
Week 2 3 full ladders
Week 3 4 half ladders
Week 4 6 half ladders
4. Diagonal jump Start in a two-point stance at one end of the agility 
ladder with the ladder to your left. Keeping both feet 
together, jump left into the ladder then left outside the 
ladder so the ladder is to your right. Jump right into 
the ladder, one box up, then right outside the ladder so 
the ladder is to your left. Continue forward in a zigzag 
pattern. Repeat. This drill may also be performed on 
one leg as you become more experienced.Week 1 2 full ladders
Week 2 3 full ladders
Week 3 4 half ladders
Week 4 6 half ladders
5. Icky shuffle Start on the left side of the ladder. Laterally step with 
your right foot and place it in the first square. Follow 
with your left foot into the first square. Laterally step 
with your right foot to the right side of the ladder, 
then advance your left foot to the second square in 
the ladder. Bring your right foot to join your left in 
the square. Laterally step to the left side of the ladder 
and advance your right foot to the third square on the 
ladder. Repeat.Week 1 2 full ladders
Week 2 3 full ladders
Week 3 4 half ladders
Week 4 6 half ladders
6. Single-leg 
forward hopHop on one leg in every square, emphasizing minimal 
ground contact. To add difficulty, add a skill to the 
drill. Repeat with the other leg.Week 1 1 full ladder per leg
Week 2 2 full ladders per leg
Week 3 4 half ladders per leg
Week 4 6 half ladders per leg
7. Single-leg 
lateral hopLaterally hop in every square using only one leg, 
emphasizing minimal ground contact. To add dif -
ficulty, a skill can be added to the drill. Repeat.Week 1 1 full ladder per leg
Week 2 2 full ladders per leg
Week 3 4 half ladders per leg
Week 4 6 half ladders per leg
8. Single-leg 
diagonal hopStand on one leg at the end of the ladder with the 
ladder to your left. Keeping both feet together, jump 
left into the ladder then left outside the ladder so the 
ladder is to your right. Jump right into the ladder, one 
box up, then right outside the ladder so the ladder is to 
your left. Continue forward in a zigzag pattern. Repeat. Week 1 1 full ladder per leg
Week 2 2 full ladders per leg
Week 3 4 half ladders per leg
Week 4 6 half ladders per leg

185AGILITY 4: REACTIVE AGILITY
This 4-week agility program focuses on reactive and positional agility. It uses sound, tactile, or 
visual cues for athletes to respond to, depending on what they respond to in their sports. You 
can use these drills as competitions by lining up multiple athletes on a line to see who reacts 
quickest by getting off the line first and arriving at a destination first (e.g., a line 5 yd [5 m] away). 
Athletes love to compete, and you can treat it like the Tour de France; give a winner’s jersey to 
the athlete who has the best time or the most wins. This is a perfect drill for all athletes who 
play contact field sports. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 
should be attempted only by more advanced individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Partner to cue start
Notes
Rest 60-90 sec between each repetition. Rest 2-3 min between each exercise.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (very advanced trainees only).
Table 12.4 Agility 4: Reactive Agility
Exercise Instructions Weeks Reps
1. Stand from 
four-point frontStart on the ground on your hands and knees. Explode as fast as 
possible as you stand up by using the following sequence: hands 
up, one foot up, then the other foot up. Repeat.Week 1 1-2
Week 2 2-3
Week 3 3
Week 4 3-4
2. Stand from 
four-point awayStart on the ground on your hands and knees. Explode as fast as 
possible as you stand up and turn to face the opposite side using 
the following sequence: hands up, one foot up, then the other foot 
up, turn. Repeat.Week 1 1-2
Week 2 2-3
Week 3 3
Week 4 3-4
3. Stand from 
sitting facing 
frontStart in a seated position on the ground. Explode as fast as pos -
sible as you stand up. Practice various get-up strategies until you 
find one that works for you, and rehearse that to each side. Repeat.Week 1 1-2
Week 2 2-3
Week 3 3
Week 4 3-4
4. Stand from 
sitting facing 
awayStart in a seated position on the ground. Explode as fast as pos -
sible as you stand up and turn to face the opposite direction. 
Practice various get-up strategies until you find one that works for 
you, and rehearse that to each side. Repeat.Week 1 1-2
Week 2 1-2
Week 3 2-3
Week 4 2-3
5. Sprawl to 
standStart in a two-point stance. Perform a squat thrust, then a roll to 
either side, and then stand up as fast as possible. Repeat, alternat -
ing direction of the roll.Week 1 1-2
Week 2 1-2
Week 3 2-3
Week 4 2-3
6. Forward fall to 
sprintFrom a standing position, feet together, lean forward until you lose 
your balance. Accelerate at full speed to keep yourself from falling. 
Run 20-30 yd (18-27 m). Repeat.Week 1 1-2
Week 2 1-2
Week 3 2-3
Week 4 2-3

186Table 12.5 Agility 5: Cone Drill Workout
Exercise Instructions Weeks Reps
1. 15-yard 
turn drillStand in a ready-to-start position. Sprint forward 5 yd (5 m) to the first 
cone and make a sharp right turn around it. Sprint to the second cone and 
make a left turn around the cone. Sprint 5 yd (5 m) through the finish. 
Repeat.Week 1 1
Week 2 2
Week 3 2-3
Week 4 3
2. 20-yard 
squareStand in a ready-to-start position. Sprint forward 5 yd (5 m) to the first 
cone and make a sharp right cut. Shuffle right 5 yd (5 m) and make a sharp 
cut back. Backpedal 5 yd (5 m) to the next cone, and make a sharp left cut. 
Shuffle to the left and back to the start position. Repeat.Week 1 1
Week 2 2
Week 3 2-3
Week 4 3
3. X- pattern 
multi-skillStand in a ready-to-start position. Sprint 10 yd (9 m) to the first cone, then 
sprint diagonally 14 yd (13 m) to the second cone. Backpedal 10 yd (9 m) to 
the third cone. At the third cone, sprint diagonally 14 yd (13 m) to the fourth 
cone. Repeat.Week 1 1
Week 2 2
Week 3 2-3
Week 4 3
4. Zigzag Stand in a ready-to-start position. Stand facing a row of 5-10 cones, each 
cone 1 yard (1 m) apart. Step forward quickly and diagonally with your right 
foot to the right of the first cone, then slide your left foot to the right. Lead 
with your left foot to the left side of the next cone, and then slide your right 
foot to the left foot. Zigzag through all the cones quickly and explosively. 
Repeat.  Week 1 1
Week 2 2
Week 3 2-3
Week 4 3
5. Z-pattern 
cutYou will need 4 cones. Place 2 cones 5 yd (5 m) diagonally across from 
each other. Place the next cone 10 yd (9 m) from the second cone. Place 
the final cone 20 yd (18 m) from the third cone. Start in a two-point stance. 
Sprint to the first cone, plant on the outside leg, and cut sharply toward the 
next cone. Walk back to starting point and repeat.Week 1 1
Week 2 2
Week 3 2-3
Week 4 3AGILITY 5: CONE DRILL WORKOUT
This 4-week agility program focuses on agility and conditioning. Once you establish a good base 
of training (complete 4 weeks), you can even use 2 or 3 drills from this workout as a warm-up 
to skills training. This is a perfect workout for anyone who wants to improve athletic agility and 
get in game-type conditioning, especially when completing weeks 3 and 4. Weeks 1 and 2 will 
be enough for most people, but weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by more advanced 
individuals who have a considerable training base.
Equipment
Cones
Notes
Rest 60-90 sec between each repetition. Rest 2-3 min between each exercise.
Weeks 1 and 2: Perform 2 times per week.
Weeks 3 and 4: Perform 1 time per week (very advanced trainees only).

187 Agility
Summary
I’m certain the wide array of agility workouts in this chapter have provided some 
great training ideas and helped you develop your agility. I hope they also allowed 
you to see agility for the important athletic component it is and inspired new ideas 
for training it. Remember, agility is one of the most important physical and movement 
attributes needed for athletic success, and it requires repetition in order to improve 
it. Therefore, make sure you always have a little bit of agility training in your athletic 
development program.
As always, I encourage you to take the workouts and exercises in this chapter and 
create your own customized agility workouts. For example, take one drill from each 
workout and create another workout. I bet it will be a killer workout and unique. 
You will see the greatest gains in performance when you start taking control of the 
programming aspect of your training. Time and experimentation will lead you to 
the perfect workout for you. Most importantly, share your newfound love for agility 
training with the people around you; they will be thankful you did.

This page intentionally left blank

189Athletic 
Endurance
You can have all the strength, power, speed, and agility in the world and even be the better 
athlete, but if you run out of gas, you have nothing. It’s that simple. How many times has 
the better athlete lost after being ahead, up to the defi  ning moment when he or she got tired? 
Part IV is about what I call metabolic training. The name metabolic was given to this type of 
training to distinguish it from cardio. Although there is a cardio component to this training, 
cardio is not the defi  ning factor. Basically, this has nothing to do with the famous V.O2max. We 
called it metabolic and the name stuck, but remember, it’s just a name. And I cover metabolic 
workouts for the entire body.
I’m not going to get into the biochemistry of this kind of training because even the biochem-
istry, all the lactate threshold and fi  ber research, still can’t explain the drastic changes we see in 
performances at all levels, from recreational to very elite. I’m just going to tell you this training 
makes you indestructible and changes more than your body and performance. It redefi  nes the 
human will and changes you from the inside out. We discussed the spiritual changes that hard 
training can catalyze in the introduction, and I urge you to reread that section before you go 
on to the training in this section. Just remember, when the sensations associated with acceler-
ated metabolism (i.e., metabolic training) come to your awareness and you want to wince in 
pain, relax your face because you are not feeling pain. You are feeling accelerated metabolism. 
Period! The more you practice this form of meditation, if you will, the more you will break 
through barriers faster than science can explain. Awareness and perception can change in an 
instant and make the difference.
The lower-body workouts expand on the Vern Gambetta super legs and the subsequent JC 
leg crank protocols of the 1990s. I’ve even provided protocols that use specialized equipment, 
such as the famous Lincoln Navigator push around the IHP parking lot. The upper-body 
workouts expand on the chisel your chest project and JC meta chest protocols designed in 
my early days. The specialized equipment in these workouts is readily available and can turn 
upper-body metabolic training into an exciting aspect of your program. Finally the total-body 
metabolic chapter introduces the protocols I use to train fi  ghters and members of our special 
forces. The gauntlet will blow your mind.
Today, a host of workout genres use metabolic training to create training programs, even 
sports such as CrossFit and obstacle course racing. Functional Training has my most popular 
protocols, such as the JC leg crank, meta chest, meta back, and Gary Gray’s dumbbell matrix. I 
don’t want to repeat these protocols, and I urge you to refer to that book for some great meta-
bolic training protocols. To those, I add the ones in this part. Get ready to transform.
PART IV
PART IV
PART IV


This page intentionally left blank

191
CHAPTER 13
Lower-Body Metabolics
When the legs go, it’s over, and it does not matter if you are running, fighting, 
or playing a sport that requires you to be strong while standing. Therefore, 
having a lower body that still keeps going when you can’t is something 
just about all athletes will opt for. Having bounce in your legs in the final rounds of a 
fight, catching up to a tired runner you have been chasing down for a while, or out-
hustling the other team in transitions are signs of lower-body metabolic endurance, 
and that comes from specific training. So this training, like everything, starts early 
and is nurtured constantly.
Our metabolic training for the lower body was inspired by my kung fu sifus and 
karate senseis during my early teen years. We did everything from thousand-kick 
workouts to executing various blocks and punches for an hour from a deep horse 
stance (wide and deep squat stance), to fast 2-3 mile beach walks in thigh-high water. 
Vern Gambetta gave us the “super legs” (i.e., 20 squats, 20 lunges, 20 box shuffles, and 
10 squat jumps) workout in the mid-1990s, and that inspired a generation of coaches 
and trainers to develop and expand on his work. Now, let’s get to some lower-body 
metabolic protocols that will take your leg endurance to new heights.

192METABOLIC LEGS 1: JC LATERAL LEG CRANK
This 6-week program uses the JC lateral leg crank as a power endurance workout that focuses 
on lateral movement. All 6 weeks are not necessary for most people, but if you are an ultra-
endurance trail runner or obstacle course competitor, for example, all 6 weeks could serve you 
well in getting across the finish line faster than ever. For most athletes, such as basketball and 
tennis players, doing 2 sets without rest is about all you will need to accomplish—maybe a third 
set for good measure. Simply follow the progression indicated in the notes and continue to reduce 
15 sec of rest between each exercise each week until you get to no rest between exercises.
Equipment
Medicine ball, plyometric box
Notes
Week 1 (beginner): Rest 45 sec between each exercise.
Week 2 (beginner): Rest 30 sec between each exercise.
Week 3 (intermediate/advanced): Rest 15 sec between each exercise.
Week 4 (intermediate/advanced): No rest between exercises.
Weeks 5-6 (elite): No rest between exercises.LOWER-BODY  
METABOLIC WORKOUTS
Table 13.1 Metabolic Legs 1: JC Lateral Leg Crank
Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
1. MB ABC squat
 Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart and a medicine ball or weight 
in both hands. Squat and reach with the 
medicine ball to your right. Return to 
standing. Squat and reach with the medi -
cine ball to your left. Repeat.Week 1 1 × 15 per side
Week 2 2 × 15 per side
Week 3 3 × 15 per side
Week 4 4 × 15 per side
Week 5 4 × 15 per side
Week 6 4 × 15 per side
2. Alternating 
lateral lunge
Stand upright with your feet shoulder-
width apart. Laterally step to the left and 
shift your weight to your left leg as you 
lower your body as far as you can. As you 
lower, keep your right leg straight and foot 
flat on the floor. Push off with your left 
foot back to the starting position. Repeat 
with the right leg.Week 1 1 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 10 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 10 per side
Week 5 5 × 10 per side
Week 6 6 × 10 per side
3. Alternating 
lateral box shuffle 
over box
Begin with your right foot on a box (8-12 
in. [20-30 cm] high) and your left foot 
on the ground. Swing your arms up 
while laterally jumping to your right. As 
you land, your left foot should be on the 
box and your right foot should be on the 
ground. Replace the foot on the box with 
the opposite foot every time you jump. 
Repeat quickly.Week 1 1 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 10 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 10 per side
Week 5 5 × 10 per side
Week 6 6 × 10 per side

193METABOLIC LEGS 2: TRUCK PUSH
This 7-week truck/car push program is one of the workouts we put on the map back in the early 
2000s. We eventually used the truck push within many of our circuits, but before that we mas -
tered the truck push around the IHP parking lot (80 yd [73 m] total composed of 25 yd + 15 yd 
+ 25 yd + 15 yd [23 m + 14 m + 23 m + 14 m], down and up hills). I used this progression with 
my sister 7 weeks after she underwent brain surgery; she eventually mastered one legit truck 
push. Those with a good fitness base can start at week 2 or 3 if they feel comfortable doing so. 
Our athletes do it for time and as a prefatigue protocol. Therefore, although pushing a Lincoln 
Navigator for 80 yd [73 m] is a feat in and of itself, eventually it is done for reps. The IHP elite 
truck workout is 5 laps around the parking lot with 2-3 min between each lap. That takes about 
20 min and involves 800-1,000 reps for the legs (400-500 per leg). If you use a smaller car, like 
a Toyota Corolla, 2 laps around the IHP parking lot equals one with the Navigator—that’s just 
our crazy estimate. Obviously, you can substitute a sled, such as the Prowler, for the vehicle, 
but I’m partial to the truck. It reminds me of the 1970s judo training that involved using a judogi 
to pull an Impala.
A simple application of the truck push as a prefatigue modality is to perform a truck push and 
then be explosive and do what you normally do for your sport or activity. We use this application 
for fighters and Special Forces Operators. For example:
1. Truck push in under 1:20
2. Shadow box around the parking lot on the balls of your feet
3. 2 ladder lengths of rotational jumps on the balls of your feet
4. 10 lateral jumps over low hurdle
5. Optional for MMA fighters: 10 hard, low kicks to the bag with each leg
Equipment
Truck or car
Instructions
Simple: Get behind a truck and push (figure 13.1). Make sure the truck is in neutral (so no smoke 
is blown in your face), put your hands on the bumper (use a towel to protect your hands and 
vehicle and to keep your hands from slipping), and push from the balls of your feet. Try not to 
go flat-footed.Exercise Photo Instructions Weeks Sets × reps
4. Skater
 Begin with both feet together and push 
off laterally with one leg. Upon landing, 
immediately push off in the opposite 
direction and continue the drill for either 
reps or time. To develop quickness, 
perform as many reps as possible for time 
(10 sec or less). Repeat.Week 1 1 × 10 per side
Week 2 2 × 10 per side
Week 3 3 × 10 per side
Week 4 4 × 10 per side
Week 5 5 × 10 per side
Week 6 6 × 10 per side

194Initial Workout
Week 1: 2 × 5 yd (5 m), 3 times per week, 1 min rest between sets
Week 2: 2 × 10 yd (9 m), 3 times per week, 1 min rest between sets
Week 3: 3 × 25 yd (23 m), 3 times per week, 1-2 min rest between sets
Week 4: 2 × 40 yd (37 m), 3 times per week, 1-2 min rest between sets
Week 5: 1 × 65 yd (54 m), 3 times per week
Week 6: 2 × 65 yd (54 m), 3 times per week, 2-3 min rest between sets
Week 7: 1 × 80 yd (73 m), 3 times per week
Elite IHP Truck Workout
Week 8: 2 × 80 yd (73 m), 2 times per week, 3-4 min rest between sets
Week 9: 3 × 80 yd (73 m), 2 times per week, 3-4 min rest between sets
Week 10: 4 × 80 yd (73 m), 1 time per week, 2-3 min rest between sets
Week 11: 5 × 80 yd (73 m), 1 time per week, 2-3 min rest between sets
Week 12 (bonus): 2 × 80 yd (73 m), 1 time per week, no rest between sets
Notes
What makes this workout extra special at IHP is the landscape of the parking lot. Due to drainage 
design, the push starts slightly downhill and goes through peaks and valleys, but it ends with an 
uphill and a turn, during which the front tires grab the asphalt and the push slows considerably. 
The finish is nasty.
Figure 13.1 Truck push.

195METABOLIC LEGS 3:  
SUPPLEMENTAL LOWER-BODY ENDURANCE
These programs use specialized equipment. Obviously if you don’t have any of this equipment, 
you can drag tires or use stairs or big hills. However, I included this section to give you an idea 
of what is out there and what to ask for when you are looking for a gym.
VersaClimber (VC): Lower Body Only
The VersaClimber (figure 13.2) may be our single most used piece of equipment in IHP. Using 
the lower body with the right resistance is as close as you get to stadium runs without going to a 
stadium. Take a 14- to 18-in (36-46 m) step on a box and feel the resistance in your leg. Set the 
resistance on the VC as close as possible 
to what you felt when doing the step-up. 
Perform an all-out effort for 15 sec using 
just your lower body. Record how many 
feet you climbed in 15 sec. Your job is to 
repeat that effort every time. Allow 1 to 
1.5 min of rest between sets. Perform 3-5 
sets 2-3 times per week or 2-3 sets after 
leg day as a flush. In 4 weeks, your legs 
will be indescribable.
Incline Treadmill Runs
Our goal at IHP is to run on our old incline 
trainers at 50% set at 6 mph. It’s hard to 
find a new treadmill that provides a 50% 
incline. If you can’t find one, use the high -
est incline available and adapt the protocol. 
For example, use an incline of 20%-30% 
and increase the speed to 8-12 mph. At 
first, choose a speed and incline that will 
allow you to barely complete 7-10 sec. Run 
10 sec and then use the handles to jump 
your feet to the side rails and take a com -
plete rest of 50 sec; that’s one set. Perform 
5-10 sets 2-3 times per week. In 4 weeks, 
you will be in shape to play any sport.
As an example of what can be accom -
plished using this protocol, Jeff Monson 
and other elite UFC fighters have com -
pleted up to 20 sets in a conditioning ses -
sion at 50% incline at 6 mph.
Figure 13.2 VersaClimber.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 196
METABOLIC LEGS 4:  
SHUTTLE MVP LOWER-BODY METABOLIC WORKOUT
Many high-level athletes come to IHP when they need to train hard while injured. We also train 
people who want to train the lower body hard but have conditions that do not allow much com -
pression, especially while standing (e.g., pinched nerves or disc issues). The Shuttle MVP (figure 
13.3) is one of our favorite pieces of equipment for many reasons; it can handle the most delicate 
leg and hip rehab or build fatigue-resistant legs. I have used this protocol with fighters when they 
could not push the truck or do leg cranks due to disc issues. The protocol is simple: 100 reps in 
70-90 sec. We set the back pad so that the athlete is almost in a full squat. We help the athlete 
extend his or her legs to start the protocol. We start with 50 squats (thighs parallel to foot pad). 
Then we immediately go to 50 mini jumps while staying on the balls of their feet (knees flex to 
about 1/4 squat). I experiment with the 50 mini jumps and at times perform any of the patterns 
one sees when boxers are skipping rope (i.e., split jumps, shuffles). Just 3-5 sets will shred your 
legs if you use the right intensity. You can perform this workout 2-3 times per week for 4 weeks.
Figure 13.3 Shut tle MVP.
Summary
The protocols in this chapter are greatly responsible for setting the stage for IHP’s 
reputation of making killers. When our athletes set their eyes on a target, their legs 
always get them there. These workouts are in part what we use to create legs that won’t 
quit. Remember, what initially conditions the legs eventually serves as a prefatigue 
strategy to technical work. That prefatigue strategy is the magic of our reduced-volume 
training. Regardless of how you use these workouts, there is no doubt in my mind 
that you will notice an incredible difference in the way your legs look and function. 
Remember, when you feel your new killer legs, share the excitement with a friend.

197
CHAPTER 14
Upper-Body Metabolics
Chapter 13 discussed the importance of lower-body endurance for getting there 
and firmly standing there in sports. But what happens when you get there? 
When you do get there, usually it’s time to do something with the upper body. 
Even when the upper body does not need endurance for the activity, it often needs 
endurance to be able to train at a high level for many minutes or hours. For example, 
a baseball player does not really need upper-body endurance to hit a ball three to five 
times during a three-hour game. However, going through a batting cage workout 
of 50-100 balls three or four times per week requires upper-body endurance. If you 
don’t believe that repetitive training is work, just look at the forearms of professional 
baseball players who have great batting averages; they’re pretty impressive.
Functional Training  has several upper-body metabolic protocols, such as the meta 
chest and meta back. I refer you to that book for a complete explanation of functional 
training, program design, and over 100 programs that will take your performance 
to the next level. The workouts in this chapter will provide additional upper-body 
endurance protocols. I also provide a few supplemental workouts so you can see what 
other workouts can look like. This is done to provide more content and to ignite the 
creative process that leads you to design your own metabolic protocols. Remember, if 
I created all the content in this book through practice, success, and failure, why can’t 
you do the same? Why can’t you create personalized workouts that meet your specific 
needs? You can, and I hope you will.
The equipment used for the protocols in this chapter is simple and easy to get. I 
love body weight, bands, and medicine balls since these pieces are easy to obtain, 
cheap, and travel pretty well. Even if you can’t get a medicine ball to travel easily, most 
gyms have them. Therefore, you will be able to pull off these protocols without much 
difficulty. As always, if you don’t have a piece of equipment, either do more reps of 
something you can do or substitute for a piece of equipment you do have. Making it 
happen is half the fun, and it’s where the learning takes place.
The key thing to the design of our metabolic protocols is to avoid long transitions 
of even a few seconds that can allow the local muscle environment to recover. There 
is no rest between exercises or loss of rhythm in movement during the protocols. 
Constant fast movement is the name of the game in this type of training. Another 
characteristic is that the sequence we usually follow when working both sides of the 
body is to include parallel simultaneous movements and alternating limb patterns. 
We perform the simple, slower movements first and finish with the energy-draining 
fast movements. An example of this common format is my famous leg crank:

JC’s Total Body Transformation 198
• 24 bodyweight double-leg squats
• 24 bodyweight alternating lunges (12 per leg)
• 24 alternating split jumps (12 per leg)
• 12 squat jumps
When applying this format to the upper body, we start with slow bilateral movements 
such as a band press or band row, then finish with explosive bilateral movements such 
as an explosive push-up or explosive swimmer. The upper-body metabolic circuit can 
last 50 to 70 seconds.
Now, this does not mean we can’t break this format, and we do. However, this basic 
format helps teach the design of metabolic protocols. Once you master this format 
design, you can start experimenting.
Our most popular metabolic pushing protocols are featured in our chisel your chest 
project, and I refer you to ihpfit.com for more information on metabolic training for 
the chest. I provide a couple of additional chest metabolic protocols in this chapter 
that require nothing but body weight and bands. But I warn you: Metabolic protocols 
are advanced training, and you need to develop an excellent fitness base before even 
attempting them. Any protocol involving push-ups requires a person to be able to 
perform 30-40 push-ups without stopping. For individuals who don’t have that kind 
of strength but still want to experience metabolic training, I recommend you perform 
the band metabolics so the intensity can be better tailored to individual strength.
UPPER-BODY METABOLIC PUSH 1: JC BAND META CHEST
This 4-week program uses a set of JC bands to provide resistance. I recommend the 4 ft (122cm) 
orange sports bands for women and the 4 ft green sports bands for men. Set up the band accord -
ing to manufacturer guidelines. You will need to experiment with the distance you pull the band 
to get the perfect tension for the entire protocol. This protocol makes for a great flush set after 
a chest day, to tone your chest during short workouts, or as a prefatigue strategy to technical 
sports training, such as hitting a speed bag. The tempo is very fast, approximately 2-3 repeti -
tions per second, so the entire protocol is done in about 1 min. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough 
for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by elite athletes or individuals 
who have years of training behind them.
Equipment
Bands
Notes
Rest 90 sec to 2 min between sets.
Week 1: 1 set, 2 or 3 times per week, using lighter band tension and resting as needed between 
exercises; exercises 1-3 only.
Week 2: 2 sets, 2 or 3 times per week, using greater band tension and no rest between exer -
cises; exercises 1-3 only.
Week 3: 2 sets, 1 or 2 times per week, using heavy band tension and no rest between exer -
cises; exercises 1-4.
Week 4: 3 sets, 1 or 2 times per week, using heavy band tension and no rest between exer -
cises; exercises 1-4.
Elite: 2 sets back-to-back (all 4 exercises) without rest.UPPER-BODY  
METABOLIC WORKOUTS

199Table 14.1 Upper-Body Metabolic Push 1: JC Band Meta Chest 
Exercise Photo Instructions Reps
1. BP staggered 
stance press\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9979, 
F 14.01a, ID: 612511, here\Anchor the band at chest height. Hold one 
handle in each hand and face away from the 
anchor point. Create appropriate tension and 
assume a split stance with your left leg forward. 
Starting with your hands on the sides of your 
chest, extend your elbows to perform a double-
arm chest press. Flex your elbows to return to 
the starting position. Repeat for desired reps; 
switch your foot position and repeat.20 per foot 
position (40 
total)
2. BP staggered 
stance alternating 
press\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9980, 
F 14.01b, ID: 612512, here\Anchor the band at chest height. Hold one handle 
in each hand and face away from the anchor 
point. Create appropriate tension and assume a 
split stance, with your left leg forward. Start with 
your left arm extended and your right hand on the 
right side of your chest. Simultaneously extend 
your right elbow to press with your right hand 
and flex your left elbow to bring your left hand 
to the left side of your chest. Repeat for desired 
reps; switch your foot position and repeat.20 per foot 
position (40 
total)
3. BP staggered 
stance fly\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9982, 
F 14.01c, ID: 612513, here\Anchor the band at chest height. Hold one 
handle in each hand and face away from anchor 
point. Create appropriate tension and assume a 
split stance with your left leg forward. Starting 
with your arms open, palms facing forward, and 
elbows slightly flexed, bring your hands together 
until they almost touch. Open your arms to 
the starting position. Repeat for desired reps; 
switch your foot position and repeat.10 per foot 
position (40 
total)
4. Explosive push-
up (optional)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9987, 
F 14.01d, ID: 612514, here\Assume a push-up position, your hands 
shoulder-width apart. Flex your elbows to lower 
your body until your elbows are flexed to about 
90 degrees, and explode back up as you extend 
your elbows so that your hands come off the 
ground. Repeat.10


200Table 14.2 Upper-Body Metabolic Push 2: Chisel Your Chest
Exercise Photo Instructions Reps
WEEKS 1-4
1. Bodyweight 
push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9848, 
F 14.02a, ID: 612516, here\Assume a push-up position, your hands 
shoulder-width apart. Flex your elbows to lower 
your body until your chest is 2-3 in. (5-8 cm) off 
the ground. Straighten your arms and push back 
up. Repeat. 20
2. Bodyweight 
lateral shuffle 
push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9856, 
F 14.02b, ID: 612517, here\Assume a push-up position, your hands 
shoulder-width apart. Place your right hand next 
to your left hand. Shuffle your left hand to the 
outside of your left shoulder. Perform a push-
up. Repeat.10 per side 
(20 total)
UPPER-BODY METABOLIC PUSH 2: CHISEL YOUR CHEST
This 8-week program is made up of two monster workouts; one made it into an issue of Men’s 
Health.  You can treat each 4-week phase as a separate protocol and even go for the elite ver -
sion if you like. Just to be able to do either one of these protocols with little to no rest between 
each exercise is an accomplishment. This strategy of metabolic chest training even has some 
solid research behind it as well. Dr. Rhadi Ferguson presented his findings on a 3-week version 
of this protocol for his PhD dissertation (Ferguson, Rhadi. 2009. Use of the medicine ball super 
arms protocol on the National Football League’s 225-lb repetition-to-failure bench press test: 
Analysis of effects. A dissertation presented in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the 
degree doctor of philosophy. Capela University), showing a 5.2% increase in the 225 lb (102 kg) 
bench-press-to-failure in elite football players in 3 weeks, without lifting a weight! The tempo is 
very fast, approximately 1-2 repetitions per second, so the entire protocol is done in about 50-60 
sec. Weeks 1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted 
only by elite athletes or individuals who have years of training behind them.
Equipment
Small but very firm medicine ball (or 6-8 in. [15-20 cm] step)
Notes
Rest 90 sec to 2 min between each set.
Week 1: 1 set, 2 or 3 times per week, resting as needed between exercises.
Week 2: 2 sets, 2 or 3 times per week, little rest between exercises.
Week 3: 2 sets, 1 or 2 times per week, no rest between exercises.
Week 4: 3 sets, 1 or 2 times per week, no rest between exercises.
Elite: 2 sets back-to-back, no rest between sets.

201Exercise Photo Instructions Reps
3. Diamond push-
up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9858, 
F 14.02c, ID: 612518, here\Assume a push-up position, keeping your hands 
close (i.e., the thumbs of each hand touching). 
Perform a push-up.10
4. Explosive push-
up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9867, 
F 14.02d, ID: 612519, here\Assume a push-up position, your hands 
shoulder-width apart. Flex your elbows to lower 
your body until your elbows are flexed to about 
90 degrees, and explode back up as you extend 
your elbows so that your hands come off the 
ground. Repeat.10
WEEKS 5-8
1. MB (or step) 
single-arm push-
off\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9878, 
F 14.02e, ID: 612520, here\Place your left hand on the floor and your right 
hand on a small medicine ball or small step (4-8 
in. [10-20 cm]); put your hands shoulder-width 
apart. Perform a push-up. Quickly push all the 
way up until your right arm is straight and your 
left hand comes off the ground. Perform all 
repetitions on one side, then switch to the other 
side. 10 per side 
(20 total)
2. MB (or step) 
crossover push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9882, 
F 14.02f, ID: 612521, here\Perform a unilateral push-off on the medicine 
ball or step. While your left arm is locked out, 
place your right hand next to your left hand on 
the medicine ball or step. Shuffle your left hand 
to the left, placing it on the ground at shoulder 
width. Perform a push-up. Repeat to the right 
side. 10 per side 
(20 total)
3. MB (or step) 
hands-on-ball 
push-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9879, 
F 14.02g, ID: 612522, here\Assume a push-up position on the medicine 
ball or step, keeping your hands close (i.e., 
the thumbs of each hand touching). Flex your 
elbows to perform a push-up on the medicine 
ball or step. Repeat.10
4. MB (or step) 
depth jump\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9893, 
F 14.02h, ID: 612523, here\Assume a push-up position on the medicine 
ball or step, keeping your hands close (i.e., the 
thumbs of each hand touching). Quickly jump 
your hands off the medicine ball or step and 
land with your hands to each side of the medi -
cine ball or step. Immediately jump back on to 
the medicine ball or step. Repeat. 10


202Table 14.3 Upper-Body Metabolic Pull 1: Band and Ball Meta Back
Exercise Photo Instructions Reps
1. BP row \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8922, 
F 14.03a, ID: 612525, here\Anchor a band at chest height. Hold one handle 
in each hand and face away from the anchor 
point. Create appropriate tension. Flex your 
elbows to row the handles to the sides of your 
ribs. Extend your elbows to return to the start -
ing position. Repeat. 30
2. BP bent-over 
alternating row\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8924, 
F 14.03b, ID: 612526, here\Anchor a band at chest height. Hold one handle 
in each hand and face the anchor point. Flex 
at the hips so that the torso is parallel to the 
ground, and create appropriate tension in 
the band. Start with your right arm extended 
overhead (toward the anchor point) and your 
left hand on the left side of your chest. Simul -
taneously pull your right arm to the right side 
of your chest and allow your left arm to extend 
overhead. Repeat. 30
UPPER-BODY METABOLIC PULL 1:  
BAND AND BALL META BACK
This 4-week program uses a set of JC bands to provide resistance and is a mirror of the metabolic 
push 1 protocol. Again, I recommend the 4-foot orange JC Sports Band for women and the green 
JC Sports Band for men. Set up the band according to manufacturer guidelines. You will need to 
experiment with the distance you pull the band to get the perfect tension for the entire protocol. 
This protocol makes for a great flush set after a back day, to tone your back during short workouts, 
or as a prefatigue strategy to technical sports training, like swimming. The tempo is very fast, 
approximately 2-3 repetitions per second, so the entire protocol is done in about 1 min. Weeks 
1 and 2 will be enough for most people, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only by elite 
athletes or individuals who have years of training behind them. Although the parallel stance is 
used in the protocol, you can certainly perform it with a staggered stance to get more posterior 
activity (i.e., split sets between foot positions or divide sets in half with each foot position).
Equipment
JC Sports Band (green for men, orange for women), firm medicine ball (2-4 lb [1-2 kg])
Notes
Rest 90 sec to 2 min between sets.
Week 1: 1 set, 2 or 3 times per week, using lighter band tension and resting as needed between 
exercises; exercises 1-3 only.
Week 2: 2 sets, 2 or 3 times per week, using greater band tension and no rest between exer -
cises; exercises 1-3 only.
Week 3: 2 sets, 1 or 2 times per week, using heavy band tension and no rest between exer -
cises; exercises 1-4.
Week 4: 3 sets, 1 or 2 times per week, using heavy band tension and no rest between exer -
cises; exercises 1-4.
Elite: 2 sets back-to-back (all 4 exercises) without rest.

203Exercise Photo Instructions Reps
3. BP swim \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8930, 
F 14.03c, ID: 612527, here\Anchor a band at chest height. Hold one handle 
in each hand and face away from the anchor 
point. Create appropriate tension. Stand upright 
with the arms pointing toward the anchor point. 
Simultaneously flex your trunk and bring your 
hands to the sides of your hips so that the 
band is in contact with the shoulders and your 
thumbs are near your rear pockets. Return to 
the starting position. Repeat.30
4. MB overhead 
throw (optional)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9898-
Edit, F 14.03d, ID: 612528, here\Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold 
a 2-4 lb (1-2 kg) medicine ball in your hands. 
Bring the ball overhead and throw it to a wall 
in front of you. (You may slam the ball to the 
ground away from you if you don’t have a wall.) 
Pick up (catch) ball. Repeat. 10
UPPER-BODY METABOLIC PULL 2:  
STABILITY BALL AND PULL-UP WORKOUT
This 4-week program uses a stability ball (or wheel) and a pull-up bar as equipment. It requires 
that you can do 15 pull-ups and 10 stability ball (or wheel) rollouts before you even attempt this 
baby. I had to pull this one out of our protocol vault since we have not used it in a long time, 
but I’m not sure why we don’t use it more often; it’s a beast of a protocol. It was very popular 
with our combat athletes and probably gave way to newer versions that use our special gripping 
equipment. The tempo is as fast as you can perform, but due to the higher strength require -
ments needed for this protocol, the movements are slower that the other protocols. Set up the 
equipment (or stations) close to each other so you can go from exercise to exercise as fast as 
possible. Use whatever time between sets and reps you need to complete the protocol; the goal 
is no rest between exercises or sets. Use 90 sec to 3 min of rest between protocols. Weeks 1 and 
2 will be enough for most advanced individuals, while weeks 3 and 4 should be attempted only 
by individuals who have years of training behind them.
Equipment
Pull-up bar, wheel or stability ball, sports band, medicine ball (2-4 lb [1-2 kg])
Notes
Rest 90 sec to 2 min between sets.
Week 1: 1 set, 2 or 3 times per week, rest as necessary; exercises 1-3 only.
Week 2: 2 sets, 2 or 3 times per week, no rest between exercises, 1-2 min rest between sets; 
exercises 1-3 only.
Week 3: 2 sets, 1 or 2 times per week, no rest between exercises, 1-2 min rest between sets; 
exercises 1-4.
Week 4: 3 sets, 1 or 2 times per week, no rest between exercises or between sets; exercises 1-4
Elite: 2 sets back-to-back without rest; exercises 1-4.

204Table 14.4 Upper-Body Metabolic Pull 2: Stability Ball and Pull-Up Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Reps
1. 3D 21 pull-ups \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0199, 
F 14.04a, ID: 612530, here\Hang from a pull-up bar, your hands shoulder-
width apart. Start with your chin above the bar 
and perform 7 half pull-ups (from chin above 
bar to elbows flexed to 90 degrees). Lower your 
body until your arms are fully extended and per -
form 7 half pull-ups (from arm fully extended 
to elbows flexed to 90 degrees). Perform 7 
complete pull-ups. 7 + 7 + 7 
(21 total)
2. SB (or wheel) 
roll-out\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_8897, 
F 14.04b, ID: 612531, here\Assume a plank position with your hands on 
a wheel or stability ball and your feet on the 
floor (balance on your knees if your core is not 
strong enough). Roll the wheel or ball out until 
your arms are stretched out over your head. Roll 
back to the starting position. Repeat. 10
3. BP swim \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_0176, 
F 14.04c, ID: 612532, here\Anchor a band at chest height. Hold one handle 
in each hand and face away from the anchor 
point. Create appropriate tension. Stand upright, 
with your arms pointing toward the anchor 
point. Simultaneously flex your trunk and bring 
your hands to the sides of your hips so that the 
band is in contact with the shoulders and your 
thumbs are near your rear pockets. Return to 
the starting position. Repeat. 30
4. MB overhead 
throw (optional)\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9898-
Edit, F 14.04d, ID: 612533, here\Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold 
a 2-4 lb (1-2 kg) medicine ball in your hands. 
Bring the ball overhead and throw it to a wall 
in front of you. (You may slam to the ground 
away from you if you don’t have a wall.) Pick up 
(catch) ball. Repeat. 10


205Table 14.5 Hydra-Gym 360 Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions
1. Simultaneous 
punch\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9914-
Edit, F 14.05a, ID: 612535, here\Stand in a parallel or staggered stance and hold a 
handle in each hand. Push with both hands simul -
taneously, then pull with both hands simultane -
ously.
2. Alternating 
punch\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9916-
Edit, F 14.05b, ID: 612536, here\Stand in a parallel or staggered stance and hold 
a handle in each hand. Push with your right hand 
while pulling with your left hand. Repeat.
SUPPLEMENTAL UPPER-BODY ENDURANCE
The following protocols feature some specialized equipment that we have at IHP. We understand 
that not every person will have access to this equipment and not every gym has this equipment 
on the floor. However, as I travel around the world, I’m seeing more gyms step up and offer 
more interesting equipment to their client bases. I’m also seeing an increasing amount of smaller 
studios equip themselves with these unique pieces to compete with the bigger gyms that don’t 
have them. Next time you look for a gym or studio, see if it has some of the equipment featured 
in this section; that will be a sign that the gym is up-to-date.
Hydra-Gym 360
The Hydra-Gym Powermax 360. (go to ihpfit.com to see it in action) is an awesome piece of 
equipment for the upper body. Like any good piece of equipment, it is a grab-and-go piece that 
is user-friendly in its application, is super effective, and can train anyone at any level. There are 
about seven different patterns that can be done with two arms or single arms, for reps or time. 
Here are two of our favorite applications:
1. Perform 140 altering punches followed by 30 sec of the speed bag, heavy bag, or focused 
mitt work. This is our standard prefatigue application.
2. Perform as many reps as you can in 30 sec for the patterns in table 14.5. Start with 1-2 sets 
of 15 sec per exercise and rest about 1-1:30 min between sets. Just about anyone can start 
with that. You can add one set each week, and add time to the exercise interval, until you 
are doing 5 sets of 30 hard sec for each exercise. That’s right: 35 sets in about 40-50 min 
was our biggest workout. Perform 2 times each week.
Notes
Week 1: 2 × 15 sec of exercise with 1 min rest.
Week 2: 3 × 20 sec of exercise with 1:30 min rest.
Week3: 4 × 30 sec of exercise with 1 min rest.
Week 4: 5 × 30 sec of exercise with 30 sec to 1 min rest.
(continued)

206Exercise Photo Instructions
3. Fly \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9918-
Edit, F 14.05c, ID: 612537, here\Stand in a parallel or staggered stance and hold a 
handle in each hand. Keeping your elbows slightly 
flexed, open your arms wider and close them until 
the handles almost touch. Repeat.
4. Side to side \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9923-
Edit, F 14.05d, ID: 612538, here\Stand in a parallel or staggered stance and hold a 
handle in each hand. Holding both handles close to 
each other and keeping your arms almost straight, 
move both handles as far right as you can, then 
move them as far left as you can. Repeat.
5. Alternating 
cross\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9930-
Edit, F 14.05e, ID: 612539, here\Stand in a parallel or staggered stance and hold a 
handle in each hand. With your right hand, push 
diagonally to your left. As you bring your right arm 
back, push with your left hand diagonally to the 
right. Repeat.
6. Inward circle \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9937-
Edit, F 14.05f, ID: 612540, here\Stand in a parallel or staggered stance and hold a 
handle in each hand. Holding both handles close to 
each other and keeping your arms slightly flexed, 
simultaneously make a big counterclockwise circle 
with your right hand and a clockwise circle with 
your left hand. Repeat.
7. Outward circle \INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9935-
Edit, F 14.05g, ID: 612541, here\Stand in a parallel or staggered stance and hold a 
handle in each hand. Holding both handles close to 
each other and keeping your arms slightly flexed, 
simultaneously make a big clockwise circle with 
your right hand and a counterclockwise circle with 
your left hand. Repeat.
Table 14.5 Hydra-Gym 360 Workout (continued)

207Table 14.6 ISOs to Ropes (Isometric Metabolic) Workout
Exercise Photo Instructions Week Time
1. Isometric DB 
clinch carry\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9958, 
F 14.06a, ID: 612543, here\Hold dumbbells at 90 degrees of elbow 
flexion. Stand or walk around without 
allowing your arms to lose the flexed 
position.Week 1 5 sec
Week 2 10 sec
Week 3 15 sec
Week 4 20 sec
Week 5 25 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
2. Ropes alternat -
ing up and down\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9035, 
F 14.06b, ID: 612544, here\With your feet shoulder-width apart 
and core tight, hold onto the rope 
ends. Move your arms in opposite 
directions (right hand up and left hand 
down) to cause shoulder-height waves 
in each rope.Week 1 10 sec
Week 2 20 sec
Week 3 30 sec
Week 4 30 sec
Week 5 30 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
Rest Week 1 30 sec
Week 2 30 sec
Week 3 60 sec
Week 4 60 sec
Week 5 60 sec
Week 6 (beast) 60 sec
ISOs to Ropes (Isometric Metabolic)
ISOs to ropes is another killer upper-body grind. It involves isometric contractions followed by 
ropes or a new product called the Inertia Wave, which is an alternative to ropes. Although we 
call for the alternating up-and-down pattern in the rope drills, you can use other patterns you 
like. This is just one of the ways we work this protocol, but there are many possible variations. 
Select a set of dumbbells 15%-20% of your body weight. Set up a 40-50 ft (12-15m) rope looped 
around a sturdy structure (such as a dumbbell rack) and have a pull-up bar in close proximity. 
Table 14.6 shows the protocol. Start at any week you think you can do comfortably. You can 
perform this protocol 2 or 3 times per week.
Equipment
Dumbbells, ropes or Inertia Wave (inertiawave.com), pull-up bar
Notes
Week 1: 2 sets
Week 2: 3 sets
Week 3: 4 sets
Week 4: 5 sets
Week 5: 5 sets
Week 6: 5 sets
(continued)

JC’s Total Body Transformation 208
Exercise Photo Instructions Week Time
3. Isometric half 
pull-up\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9971, 
F 14.06c, ID: 612545, here\Hold pull-up at 90 degrees of elbow 
flexion and hold that position.Week 1 5 sec
Week 2 10 sec
Week 3 15 sec
Week 4 20 sec
Week 5 25 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
4. Ropes alternat -
ing up and down\INSERT Photo E7272_DSC_9035, 
F 14.06d, ID: 612546, here\With your feet shoulder-width apart 
and core tight, hold onto the rope 
ends. Move your arms in opposite 
directions (right hand up and left hand 
down) to cause shoulder-height waves 
in each rope.Week 1 10 sec
Week 2 20 sec
Week 3 30 sec
Week 4 30 sec
Week 5 30 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
Rest Week 1 30 sec
Week 2 30 sec
Week 3 60 sec
Week 4 60 sec
Week 5 60 sec
Week 6 (beast) 60 sec
Summary
I am sure this chapter provided you with some new ideas on how to get your upper 
body in incredible shape and ready for anything. It does not matter if you just want 
a finishing pump after your traditional workout or are getting ready for a UFC fight. 
The protocols in this chapter have delivered in those types of situations, and they 
will deliver for you. Keep the flame of creativity burning and dare to combine vari-
ous moves from different workouts to create your own. Challenge your friends to get 
involved and keep up with you. Make your Saturdays IHP grind day and take these 
workouts for a spin. It’s a great way to kick off the weekend!Table 14.6 ISOs to Ropes (Isometric Metabolic) Workout (continued)

209
CHAPTER 15
Total-Body Metabolics
This chapter ties it all together—total-body metabolics. When I trained Army 
Special Forces and many of my fighters, this is what I put them through! Your 
entire body is a metabolic machine, and training the entire body how to deal 
with high levels of hydrogen as a result of the dissociation of lactic acid (HLA) into 
lactate (LA-) and hydrogen (H+) is extremely important. Not only are the metabolic 
pathways enhanced through this type of intense training, there is the psychological 
(i.e., spiritual) factor yet to be quantified. As I have previously mentioned, I believe 
the biggest and fastest adaptation to intense training is resetting the human will, and 
that is a spiritual transformation, not a physical adaptation. These total-body protocols 
are not fancy, but they do create what we call IHP cyborgs.
In the old days, we had gut-check Fridays (GCF), a workout that was made up of all 
our metabolic protocols. This was a brutal workout:
• 6 sets of JC leg cranks (24 bodyweight double-leg squats, 24 [12 per leg] body-
weight alternating lunges, 24 [12 per leg] alternating split jumps, and 12 squat 
jumps) for 504 total reps for the legs with no rest in about 9 min.
• 5-10 min rest.
• 3 sets of chisel your chest (table 14.2) In weeks 1-4, chisel your chest includes 20 
bodyweight push-ups, 20 (10 per side) bodyweight lateral shuffle push-ups, 10 
diamond push-ups, and 10 explosive push-ups for 60 total reps. In weeks 5-8, 
chisel your chest includes 20 (10 per side) MB single-arm push-offs, 20 (10 per 
side) MB crossover push-ups, 10 MB hands-on-ball push-ups, and 10 MB depth 
jumps for 60 total reps. Whichever protocol you use, you get 60 total reps for 
the chest with no rest between exercises and about 2-3 min rest between sets.
• 5 min rest.
• 3 sets of meta back (20 BP rows, 20 [10 per arm and leg] BP staggered stance 
bent-over alternating rows, 20 BP swims, 10 MB overhead slams) for 70 reps for 
the back with no rest between exercises and about 2-3 min rest between sets.
• 5 min rest.
• 3 meta abs (10-20 leg raises, 10-20 crunches, 10-20 V-ups) with no rest between 
exercises, about 2-3 min rest between sets. Start doing the leg raises, lifting legs 
8-12 in. (20-30 cm) off the ground. When the leg raises are completed, keep your 
feet about 12 in. (30 cm) a foot off the ground while doing crunches. When done 
with the crunches, go straight to V-ups.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 210
Clients took 1-2 months of training just to be able to complete this workout. This 
workout sent everyone home, ready to call it a day; no happy hour for anyone after this. 
Since then, we have used versions of these protocols in different combinations. Now, 
we normally stick with very intense protocols that last 30 sec to 6 mins, depending 
on what we are trying to accomplish.
Total-body training generally consists of a sequence of intense and continuous 
upper- and lower-body training. Unless you use specialized equipment, such as an 
Airdyne or VersaClimber, you are looking at a series of calisthenics strung together 
in a sequence. Functional Training  features Gary Gray’s dumbbell matrix, which is a 
72-rep dumbbell protocol. You can also do Gary’s dumbbell matrix with heavy medi -
cine balls or sand bags. However, our premiere protocol, which is actually a test we 
used with the Navy’s SEAL Team 6 and combat-athletes, is the IHP combat-ready rest. 
This test has been turned into a training workout and consists of a series of metabolic 
protocols and tests we used individually. Therefore, you don’t need much to design a 
great total-body metabolic protocol. As we always say, your imagination is the only 
limitation to program design. Now, let’s rock total-body metabolic training.
TOTAL-BODY METABOLIC 1:  
IHP COMBAT READY (OR RING READY) TEST
This is the test of all tests. It’s a two-in-one tool for IHP combat athletes and Army Special Forces. 
This test is not only a great way to assess the readiness of an individual but also a great workout 
that requires no equipment—all you need is a watch, a 25-yard runway, and a willing body. 
This test serves as a general physical assessment to evaluate ring readiness for combat athletes. 
The exercises were chosen so that everyone could perform them with no equipment and in any 
environment. In very simple terms, practicing an activity is the best way to get good at doing 
that activity. Therefore, practicing the components of the IHP test is the best way to prepare for 
the ring. This creates a great advantage: The test is the workout, and the workout is the test! The 
times listed are the times that most of the athletes in our initial database completed the test. It 
provides a rough idea of how your performance stacks up to all the IHP clients that participated 
in the initial data collection.TOTAL-BODY  
METABOLIC WORKOUTSTable 15.1 IHP Combat Ready Test
Event time Event
70 sec 300 yd (274 m) shuttle (25 yd [23 m] 12×)
5 sec 2-5 sec transition
20 sec Ab blast: 10 leg raises, 10 crunches, 10 V-ups
5 sec 2-5 sec transition
60 sec Squat thrust inferno (10 frog squats, 10 burpees, 10 squat thrust jumps)
5 sec 2-5 sec transition
20 sec Push-ups (20 reps)
5 sec 2-5 sec transition
90 sec JC leg crank (24 squats, 24 lunges, 24 split jumps, 12 squat jumps)
5 sec 2-5 sec transition
80 sec 300 yd (274 m) shuttle (25 yd [23 m] 12×)
Total: 365 sec (6:08)

211Recommended Completion Times for Elite Athletes
Lightweights (< 170 lb [77 kg]): < 4:30
Level I (170-190 lb [77-86 kg]): < 5:00
Level II (191-210 lb [86-95 kg]): < 5:30
Level III (211-230 lb [95-104 kg]): < 6:00
Level IV (> 230 lb [104 kg]): < 6:30
Need help getting there? Here is how to do it! Follow this 8-week schedule:
Weeks 1-2: Perform 1 set of each exercise with ample rest between exercises. Do this 3 times 
per week.
Weeks 3-4: Perform 2 sets of each exercise with ample rest between exercises. Do this 3 
times per week.
Weeks 5-6: Perform 2 sets of each exercise with 90 sec of rest between exercises. Do this 3 
times per week.
Week 7: Perform 1 set of the circuit 2 times per week.
Week 8: Set personal records on each circuit.
300-Yard (276 m) Shuttle (25 yd [23 m] 12 ×)
Mark two Xs on the ground 25 yd (23 m) apart from each other. Start with your right hand on 
the starting X. Run to the other X (25 yd [23 m] away) and touch it with your left hand. Repeat 
12 times (6 round trips) until you cover all 300 yd (274 m).
Ab Blast
Lie with your legs 8 in. (20 cm) off the ground and your hands by the sides of your head (as if 
you were protecting your head from punches). Perform 10 leg raises,  bringing your feet from 
the 8 in. (20 cm) height to about 24 in. (61 cm) high. Holding your feet at the 8 in. (20 cm) mark, 
perform 10 crunches  by reaching your hands toward the ceiling. Without putting your feet down, 
finish with 10 V-ups,  reaching as close to your feet as your flexibility allows.
Squat Thrust Inferno
Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart (or slightly wider). For frog squats,  squat 10 times, 
touching the ground between your feet with both of your hands on each squat (i.e., the frog 
position—all fingers must touch the ground). After completing the squats, immediately perform 
10 burpees  by putting your hands between your feet, thrusting back into a push-up position, 
tucking back into the frog position, and standing up straight. Immediately follow with 10 burpees 
(squat thrust) to jumps (i.e., add a jump to the end of the burpee or squat thrust).
Push-Ups
Start in a plank position. Lower your chest until it touches the ground. Press back to a straight-
arm position.
JC Leg Crank
Perform 24 bodyweight double-leg squats. Do 24 bodyweight alternating lunges (12 per leg) 
with the rear knee 6-8 in. (15-20 cm) from the ground. Do 24 (12 per leg) alternating split jumps 
with the rear knee 12-18 in. (30-46 cm) from the ground. Finish with 12 squat jumps, with 90 
degrees of knee flexion.

212TOTAL-BODY METABOLIC 2: FIGHTING CIRCUIT
This 5-week program is a sample of one of the many MMA protocols we have used with UFC 
fighters such as Cezar “the Mutant” Ferreira. As you can see, it’s a series of multiple metabolic 
protocols with various pieces of equipment to create multiple rounds just under 6 min each. This 
training is harder than any sparring and much safer. If you don’t have specific equipment, see the 
suggested equivalent exercises you can use. Set the stations as close to each other as possible, 
and always set them up the same way so you can accurately compare the circuit times between 
training days. Jog from station to station with your hands up to guard your face. Perform 3-5 
circuits per workout. Perform 1 or 2 workouts per week, depending on your weekly schedule 
and training volume. Total circuit time should be under 6 min.
Equipment
VersaClimber, low hurdles (6-8 in. [15-20 cm]), barbell, dumbbells, medicine balls, Hydra-Gym 
Powermax 360, pull-up bar, bands
Notes
If performing the workout twice a week, time one workout and use that as your test. Use the 
other workout for training (don’t time it).
Week 1: Rest 3 minutes between rounds.
Week 2: Rest 2 minutes between rounds.
Week 3: Rest 1 minute between rounds.
Week 4: Rest 1 minute between rounds; wear a tight weight vest that is 3%-5% of your 
body weight.
Week 5: Rest 1 minute between rounds; no weight vest.
Table 15.2 Total-Body Metabolic 2: Fighting Circuit
Exercise Photo Instructions Reps and time
1. VersaClimber or 
burpees
Step onto the VC steps, strap in your feet, and 
set the handles to the appropriate level. Pump 
your legs and arms simultaneously at a rate 
of 210-250 ft (64-76 m) per min (or 105-125 ft 
[32-38 m] in 30 sec).30 sec at over 
220 ft (67 m) 
per min
2. JC leg crank
 24 bodyweight double-leg squats, 24 (12 per 
leg) bodyweight alternating lunges, 24 (12 per 
leg) alternating split jumps, 12 squat jumps.84 total

213Exercise Photo Instructions Reps and time
3. Low-hurdle 
lateral jump
Jump laterally over a 6-8 in. (15-20 cm) hurdle, 
land with both feet, and immediately jump back 
over the hurdle. Repeat.10 total  
(5 per side)
4. Barbell deadlift 
(or pick up a 
partner)
Load the barbell with 110%-120% of your body 
weight. Place the bar in front of you, touching 
your shins. Grab the bar with your palms facing 
you, and keeping your back straight, lift to a 
fully extended body position.10
5. DB clinch walk 
(or pick up and 
hold a partner)
Choose dumbbells that are 15%-20% of your 
body weight. Hold the dumbbells with your 
elbows bent at 90 degrees without losing the 
flexed arm position. 30 sec
6. Sprawl
 A fighter’s version of a burpee. Stand in an ath -
letic position, jump your legs back so you land 
in a push-up position and immediately jump 
back up to the standing position.10
7. MB get-up
 Lie face up and hold a medicine ball that weighs 
3%-5% of your body weight in your left hand. 
Using your right hand for assistance, get up to 
a full standing position. Lie down and repeat. 
Switch to the other hand.5 per side (10 
total)
8. Upper-body 
metabolic push 2
20 bodyweight push-ups, 20 lateral shuffle 
push-ups (10 per side), 10 diamond push-ups, 
10 explosive push-ups.60 total
(continued)

214Exercise Photo Instructions Reps and time
9. 360 alternate 
punching (or 
punch with bands)
Stand on a 360 platform in a parallel or stag -
gered fighting stance. Holding a handle in each 
hand, punch in an alternating fashion. 140 punches
10. BP alternating 
downward punch
Secure a band such as the JC Predator Jr. 
(triple 2 in. [5 cm]) from a pull-up bar. Hold -
ing a handle in each hand, perform alternating 
downward punches. You may use a punching 
bag as a target. 50 punchesTable 15.2 Total-Body Metabolic 2: Fighting Circuit (continued)

215SUPPLEMENTAL TOTAL-BODY ENDURANCE
Some total-body protocols use specialized equipment. Some are used in the MMA circuit and 
are worth mentioning separately with full workout suggestions. Once upon a time, specialized 
equipment was not found anywhere, but now that has changed. Look for a gym that has some 
of this equipment; it shows it is on the cutting edge. If your gym does not have it, talk to the 
owner and show him or her what it can do; the owner may buy it for the gym.
VersaClimber (Total-Body Climber)
Here it is again, the VersaClimber (go to the equipment link at ihpfit.com to see it in action). I first 
saw this equipment in the early 1990s when visiting a gym during personal training certification. 
I started to use it in 1994 and fell in love with it. I made up my mind that I would have several 
if I ever had a gym. Now, it is a go-to piece at IHP for total-body strength and cardio. Here are 
two of our favorite applications.
As a HIIT workout, work up to 10 sets of 30 sec, over 110 ft (33 m) climbs (over 220 ft/min [67 
m/min] pace), with 60-90 sec rest between sets. This is a 2 day per week, 4-week progression.
• Week 1: 4 sets of 30 sec, try to get 90 to 100 ft (27-30 m), rest 2 min between sets
• Week 2: 6 sets of 30 sec, try to get 95 to 105 ft (29-32 m), rest 2 min between sets
• Week 3: 8 sets of 30 sec, try to get 100 to 110 ft (30-33 m), rest 90 sec to 2 min between sets
• Week 4: 10 sets of 30 sec, try to get 110 ft (33 m), rest 60-90 sec between sets
The Gauntlet (Body Weight)
I invented this protocol to keep wrestlers with shin splints busy while the rest of the team ran 
400-meter laps around the track. It cured shin splints in one session. Now, a version of this is 
part of the combat ready circuit. However, this is a more expanded version that deserves special 
mention. Obviously, smaller individuals do better with the times than bigger individuals. Small 
men weighing 135-145 lb (61-66 kg) can eventually get close to 1:35. Big men weighing 230-
250 lb (104-113 kg) may take as much as 2:45-3:00 minutes. But seeing a man that size move 
nonstop for 3 min is a sight to see.
• 20 frog squats (squat and touch ground between feet) (20-30 sec)
• 20 bodyweight push-ups (20 sec)
• 10 burpees (20 sec)
• 10 jump squats (10-15 sec)
• 10 burpees with push-up to jump (25-35 sec)
The complete protocol should take 1:45 to 2:15, including short transitions. Because of its 
constant nature, the difficulty feels similar to a hard period of high school wrestling. Perform 3 
protocols, with 30-60 sec rest between each, and you are ready to start wrestling season.
• Week 1: 2 gauntlets (no time requirement) with 3 min rest, 3 times per week
• Week 2: 3 gauntlets (no time requirement) with 2 min rest, 3 times per week
• Week 3: 3 gauntlets (under 2:30) with 60 sec rest, 2 times per week
• Week 4: 3 gauntlets (under 1:45-2:15) with 30-60 sec rest, 2 times per week

216Rope Gauntlet
This killer workout combines the gauntlet and rope work. Since the gauntlet has a lot of lower-
body work and level changes, the ropes give it a nice upper-body twist. If you don’t have a rope, 
use a DB clinch carry or a partner carry as your upper-body endurance work. This is a great 
workout for obstacle course athletes, people getting ready for the fire or police academy, or as 
part of a boot camp using 30 sec station intervals. You can use multiple sets as shown here or 
you can use one round as a flush conditioning protocol as a portion of a total workout. Feel free 
to experiment combining this protocol with the ISO ropes of the upper-body metabolics; they 
are a perfect match and work well together.
Table 15.3 shows a 6–week progression. Start at any week you think you can perform com -
fortably. Use this protocol 1 or 2 times per week.
Equipment
Ropes
Notes
Week 1: 2 sets, 15 sec rest between exercises, 2 min rest between sets.
Week 2: 2 sets, 15 sec rest between exercises, 1 min rest between sets.
Week 3: 3 sets, no rest between exercises, 1 min rest between sets.
Week 4: 3 sets, 15 sec rest between exercises, 30 sec rest between sets.
Week 5: 4 sets, 15 sec rest between exercises, 15 sec rest between sets.
Week 6: 5 sets, 15 sec rest between exercises, 15 sec rest between sets.
Table 15.3 Rope Gauntlet
Exercise Photo Instructions Week Time
1. Frog squat
 Stand with your feet shoulder-width 
apart (or slightly wider). Flex your knees 
to squat, touching the ground between 
your feet with both of your hands on each 
squat (i.e., the frog position—all fingers 
must touch the ground). Week 1 10 sec
Week 2 15 sec
Week 3 15 sec
Week 4 20 sec
Week 5 20 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
2. Ropes alternat -
ing up and down
Hold on to the rope ends with your feet 
shoulder-width apart and core tight. Move 
your arms in opposite directions (right 
hand up and left hand down) to cause 
shoulder-height waves in each rope.Week 1 15 sec
Week 2 20 sec
Week 3 20 sec
Week 4 30 sec
Week 5 30 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
3. Burpee
 Put your hands between your feet, thrust -
ing back into a push-up position, tucking 
back into the frog position, and standing 
up straight.Week 1 10 sec
Week 2 15 sec
Week 3 15 sec
Week 4 20 sec
Week 5 20 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec

217Exercise Photo Instructions Week Time
4. Ropes alternat -
ing up and down
Hold on to the rope ends with your feet 
shoulder-width apart and core tight. Move 
your arms in opposite directions (right 
hand up and left hand down) to cause 
shoulder-height waves in each rope.Week 1 15 sec
Week 2 20 sec
Week 3 20 sec
Week 4 30 sec
Week 5 30 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
5. Jump squat
 Stand with your feet parallel. Flex your 
knees to perform a squat to parallel 
position, then immediately jump as high 
as you can. When you land, immediately 
lower into the squat and jump back up.Week 1 10 sec
Week 2 20 sec
Week 3 20 sec
Week 4 20 sec
Week 5 20 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
6. Ropes alternat -
ing up and down
Hold on to the rope ends with your feet 
shoulder-width apart and core tight. Move 
your arms in opposite directions (right 
hand up and left hand down) to cause 
shoulder-height waves as in each rope.Week 1 15 sec
Week 2 20 sec
Week 3 20 sec
Week 4 30 sec
Week 5 30 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
7. Burpee to jump
 Put your hands between your feet, thrust -
ing back into a push-up position, tucking 
back into the frog position, and jump up. 
Repeat burpee to jump sequence.Week 1 5 sec
Week 2 10 sec
Week 3 10 sec
Week 4 15 sec
Week 5 15 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec
8. Ropes alternat -
ing up and down
Hold on to the rope ends, keeping your 
feet shoulder-width apart and core tight. 
Move your arms in opposite directions 
(right hand up and left hand down) to 
cause shoulder-height waves in each rope.Week 1 15 sec
Week 2 20 sec
Week 3 20 sec
Week 4 30 sec
Week 5 30 sec
Week 6 (beast) 30 sec

JC’s Total Body Transformation 218
Jeff Monson Tire and Truck Workout
This monster workout was designed for Jeff Monson in 2005 to get him ready for his heavyweight 
five-round title fight in UFC 65. We later used this workout to train SEAL Team 6 members for 
some of their most important missions. At the time, nobody had even come close to this, and when 
UFC found out about what we were doing, they featured our training in a UFC 65 Countdown 
segment. Until then, we did not know it if was humanly possible, but it was. Jeff was in the best 
shape of his life for that fight. Unfortunately, he did not end up with the title, but if he would 
not have been in the kind of shape he was in, he would have gotten seriously hurt that night. I 
truly believe this conditioning saved his life. Table 15.4 shows one of the 3 weekly workouts Jeff 
performed during his 5-week power endurance phase. Once the circuit begins, you walk or jog 
from one exercise to the other with no additional rest. Perform exercises 1-3 twice for 1 set. If 
possible, try to jog between exercises so you get minimum rest between exercises.
Table 15.4 Jeff Monson Tire and Truck Workout
Exercise Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5
1. Drag a 140 lb (64 kg) tire 10 yd (30 m)  
+ 10 bob and weaves3 3 3 3 3 
2. Flip a 600 lb (272 kg) tire 2 2 2 2 2
3. Navigator push (80 yd [24 m]) 1 1 1 1 1
2 rounds without rest = 1 set repeat repeat repeat repeat repeat
Total sets (2 rounds of 1-3) 3 4 4 5 5
Rest progression  
(rest between exercises/rest between sets)3-5 /
2 min 3-5 /
1 min 3-5 /
1 min3-5 /
1 min3-5 /
1 min
Summary
I hope this chapter gave you some insight into what is possible when it is time for 
total-body metabolic conditioning. The mind can be a limiting factor to exercise pro-
gramming; it can take years to find out what people are capable of in a new area and 
to evolve training to those levels. I still remember not knowing if Jeff Monson was 
going to survive the training we pioneered in 2005 for his run at the UFC 65 heavy-
weight title. It has taken us the better part of two decades of pushing the envelope 
in metabolics to get a glimpse at how the human will can evolve with training. Now, 
with the workouts presented in this book, especially the intense ones in these last few 
chapters, your training will be accelerated by knowing what has been done before, 
sparing you decades of experimentation. Take these protocols for a ride and witness 
the evolution of the human will beyond that of which any physiological parameters 
measured can explain.

219
PART V
PART V
PART V
Putting It 
Together
This is a very special part because it ties together everything in this book. Part V kicks off with 
nutrition and recovery, two of the most important elements of body transformation. Nutrition 
is certainly the most important factor in fat loss, even more important than exercise. Recovery 
is the most important factor in performance. The nutrition and recovery chapter covers why I 
have these strong opinions. In this chapter, I elicit the help of professionals I consider gurus in 
the areas of nutrition, recovery, and anti-aging to ensure I bring you the latest and most accu-
rate information available. They help me cover some conventional nutrition information, but 
also provide unique perspectives on nutrition and its spiritual component. By the end of the 
nutrition and recovery chapter, you will know how to eat better, but you will also understand 
why the window to the soul could very well be the mouth.
The programming chapter will teach you all you need to know to use the workouts in this 
book. Many people can perform a workout, but most don’t know how to create or combine 
workouts to create programs. Even fewer know how to put together a program to peak for a 
specifi  c event. This chapter covers exactly those topics in a very practical and effective manner.
You will learn the basic principles of periodization and program design and how those 
principles work within today’s gym environment. The chapter expands the weekly workout 
and shows how it can concentrate on a weak body. It describes how to combine workouts to 
create a more balanced, total-body program. The workouts covered in this chapter range from 
bodybuilding programs to agility and speed programs, and some incorporate a little of both.
This chapter will teach you how to take a weekly workout and expand it to a monthly 
program that covers an entire cycle. It will also teach you how to set up a series of cycles to 
create a long-term program that can fi  t any time frame or type of activity. The chapter ends 
with workouts from some of the industry greats to further illustrate how to use the exercises 
and workouts in this book to take your performance to its highest level, while developing a 
body that looks as good as it functions.

This page intentionally left blank

221I know it may be strange hearing this from an exercise guy, but the most important 
component of health and body composition is nutrition. What goes into your body 
has a profound effect on how you look and feel. I’m not saying that exercise is not 
important, because it is. Exercise is the foundation of fitness, and it can have a protec-
tive effect against diseases such as obesity and diabetes. However, a huge component 
of the cause for these diseases is what you ingest into your body. Therefore, if you like 
the “ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure” proverb, then nutrition is your 
ounce of prevention, and it can be worth a ton of cure, not a pound.
Name any major chronic disease plaguing modern society, and you’ll see a trail that 
leads to what that person has consumed. Of course, some things are harder to trace 
back to nutrition, but in this book, we are talking about the majority. Even conditions 
not considered a disease state, like inflammation, can end up being problematic down 
the road, both from a health standpoint and certainly from an aesthetic standpoint.
Any figure or bodybuilding competitor will tell you that nutrition makes or breaks 
the performance on stage. It not only supplies the nutrients to help build muscle and 
provides energy for workouts but also can dictate the storage of fat. Since much of this 
book focuses on transformation workouts, there is no way we can get away from talk -
ing about nutrition. Unless you have incredible genes and can eat anything you want 
and still have a six-pack, you will have to manage the nutritional component of your 
appearance. I will give it to you straight: If you are like most people, you will have 
to be very conscious of the way you eat, or you will wear it where you don’t want to!
Traditional Nutrition Education
To set the stage for the more involved nutrition topics in this chapter, we’ll start with 
general nutrition facts that are important to understand. There are three major catego-
ries of nutrients, known as macronutrients. Each macronutrient has a specific calorie 
density and a specific thermic effect on the body. In other words, each macronutri-
ent provides calories and requires a specific percentage of its energy for digestion, 
absorption, and disposal of ingested nutrients. This is called the thermic effect of food 
(TEF). Table 16.1 shows the three main macronutrients, their calorie densities, and their 
thermic effects. We have also included whey protein since we will refer to it later and 
use it as a nutritional supplement.
Food also contains micronutrients, which are vitamins and minerals. They are 
essential for good health and support a host of important processes in the body.Nutrition and Recovery16 CHAPTER 
With contributions from Jose Antonio, PhD; Cliff Edberg, RD; 
Douglas Kalman, PhD, RD; and Dave Woynarowski, MD

JC’s Total Body Transformation 222
You can eat a higher volume of food if you focus on protein and veggies because 
they not only have fewer calories per volume of food but also require more calories to 
digest. You can also increase your thermic effect of food if you add whey protein to 
your diet. Remember that just because fat is calorie dense does not mean it’s bad. We 
all need good fats for many functions in the body, including transporting fat-soluble 
vitamins and proper immune and hormonal function.
Of particular importance is how the body spends energy. Learning about this 
can help you take small steps that lead to big changes over time. These are the best 
changes. The body spends calories in four basic ways. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is 
the energy the body uses to stay alive at rest (such as when you are sleeping). Then 
you have TEF, which is the energy your body uses to break down and digest food. 
Obviously, exercise is a well-known energy expenditure, although it may not use as 
much energy as you think it does. However, the one way that the body spends energy 
that many people don’t know about (even 
though it is the make it or break it energy 
expenditure) is your nonexercise activity 
thermogenesis (NEAT). NEAT is all the 
other life-related activity you do that is 
not exercise, like walking at work, working 
around the house, etc. This component of 
energy expenditure is where most people 
can really affect their weight; getting 
your steps in each day is where it’s at 
with NEAT. Figure 16.1 shows you these 
four components and their approximate 
percentages of calories expended each 
day. (This approximation is for illustrative 
purposes only. All people are different in 
how, where, and when they move.)
Later in this chapter, we will show you 
how to alter each of the components of 
your daily energy expenditure so that you 
can reach your ideal weight and achieve 
your transformation goals.
Role of Hormones
I don’t want to turn this into a biochemistry lesson, so I want to speak generally yet 
clearly in a way you can understand. The body is a survival machine, and it does not 
care about the things you care about. It does not care about a six-pack, putting on 
five pounds (2 kg) of muscle, or running a 4.4 forty. The body loves fat because it is Table 16.1 Macronutrients and Thermic Effect
Macronutrient Calories/gram Thermic effect
Whey protein 4 30%-40% *
Protein 4 20%-35%
Carbohydrate 4 5%-20%
Fat 9 1%-5%
* Personal communication with Jose Antonio, PhD.
E7272/Santana/F16.01/609657/mh-R2100
75Exercise
Activity
energy
expenditure NEAT
TEF
BMR50
25
0Percent of daily energy expenditure
Figure 16.1 Energy expenditure.

223 Nutrition and Recovery
its energy bank account, and it hates muscle because it’s not needed as much as we 
like to think and also costs a lot of energy to maintain. The body has very efficient 
ways to regulate energy balance and even limit muscle growth. Hormones like leptin, 
ghrelin, insulin, glucagon, and many others regulate when you are hungry, what you 
are hungry for, and how what you eat gets used or stored. The myostatin gene limits 
muscle growth, making sure that a gym rat does not end up with 30-inch arms. So, 
the way you look and what you eat are hugely affected by your hormonal environ-
ment and your genetics, and you must keep that in mind. Your genetics in turn are 
affected by your epigenetics (the stuff that controls gene expression), and nothing 
(including exercise) will affect your epigenetics or your genes as much as what you 
eat! At the end of the day, you may fool your body and its hormones for little while, 
but they will win in the long run. Yo-yo dieters are a perfect example of temporarily 
winning the weight-loss battle but losing the hormone war. The take-home message 
is that you can’t starve yourself into looking good for the long haul; your body will 
detect what you are doing and use its hormones to survive. The end result is usually 
a lower metabolic rate (mediated by the thyroid and various metabolic mechanisms) 
that leads you into something like a hibernation state. This explains how a bear can 
go into a cave for several months, not die, and come out and regain all the weight lost 
by only consuming a few more calories than normal. You are fighting hormones with 
your nutrition, and you can’t railroad your body into losing weight or fat. Unless you 
are willing to live a calorie-restricted diet the rest of your life, you will not win in the 
long term and may end up getting fatter on the rebound.
Inflammation
We hear a lot about inflammation these days—it’s a new buzzword. The body experi-
ences good and bad inflammation. Good inflammation is usually acute, and it’s one of 
the first healing responses. However, the inflammation we refer to as bad inflammation 
is the chronic inflammation that results when your immune system is dealing with a 
constant invader such as an allergen. Inflammation is now thought to be a precursor 
and foundational dysfunction associated with many chronic diseases such as diabetes, 
high blood pressure, and even arthritis.
Inflammation may be caused by something you are ingesting that you have some 
kind of sensitivity to. However, finding the culprit of the inflammation is another 
story. At this time, the research is lacking in pinpointing which foods cause inflam -
mation. Therefore, this book will not deal with diagnosing allergies (inflammation), 
sensitivities, or complicated nutritional issues. We are going to deal with the basics in 
sound and healthy nutritional practices for most people.
Just about anything a person is sensitive to can trigger an inflammatory response: 
a food, any chemical added to something we ingest, or any agent we come in contact 
with. This includes toothpaste, deodorant, detergent, makeup, food, drinks, and even 
the air we breathe. Here are some of the most common foods and substances thought 
to cause inflammation in the body:
• Sugar—It’s probably one of the biggest addictions in our modern-day society 
and the biggest cause of inflammation via excess insulin (the hormone used to 
store fat).
• Artificial sweeteners—If you think that a product is safe because it is labeled as 
zero carbs, it may not be! These artificial additives are sensed by the bacteria in 
your gut (called the microbiome), and some artificial sweeteners can be poison 
for the bacteria and thus, for you!

JC’s Total Body Transformation 224
• Artificial additives—If you can’t pronounce an ingredient on a nutrition label, 
it’s probably bad for you.
• Refined flour—Refined means that most of the nutrients of the grain have been 
removed, and your body has to deal with what’s left.
• Gluten from common store bread—Altered processing procedures leave higher 
gluten levels in bread that can cause irritation in your GI tract and cause inflam-
mation.
• Processed meats—These products often contain additives to preserve color, tex-
ture, and taste along with whatever the animal was injected with, not to mention 
a good dose of saturated fat. Thus, this is also the mystery-meat classification.
• Conventional grain-fed meats—Sweet grains are not what grazing animals 
are supposed to eat. They eat grass! Grains make them fat quickly, compromise 
their immune systems, and create a need for high amounts of antibiotics. You 
consume all these pleasantries.
• Saturated fats—Saturated fats get a bad rap when it comes to heart disease, 
and there is evidence that it causes inflammation in fat tissue itself (i.e., white 
fat tissue).
• Fried foods—Vegetable-oil fried foods, as well as foods that are cooked at high 
temperatures, pasteurized, dried, smoked, or grilled, contain high levels of 
inflammatory end products. Vegetable oils are high in omega 6 (inflammatory) 
and low in omega-3 (anti-inflammatory). The American diet is high in omega-
6, and the ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 is as high as 15-20:1 when it should be 
closer to 1:1.
• Trans fats—These fats (partially hydrogenated oils, PHO) are not made by the 
body, so the body finds the oils difficult to break down, causing inflammation.
• Fast foods and containers—It’s not only the food, but the container the food 
is in! Plastic containers used at fast-food chains have phthalates (thal-ates) that 
leech out, especially when heated. Phthalates can disrupt your endocrine system 
and thus cause inflammation.
• Dairy—We are not talking about good yogurt with its good gut bacteria. Dairy 
has a good amount of saturated fat, which can be inflammatory. Also, some 
people are sensitive to lactose or casein proteins.
• Excessive alcohol—While a little bit may be helpful in controlling inflammation, 
too much takes you in the other direction and possibly damages the liver and 
weakens the immune system. Everything in moderation.
I’m not saying these foods are evil, but I can make a strong argument that avoiding 
them will result in better health. In essence, try to avoid these foods and aim to eat 
whole foods as much as possible. But we understand you don’t want to live in a cave 
and graze off the land; most of us just don’t live in that environment. So, do the best 
you can and try to stay away from or greatly reduce the foods listed above. If you eat 
these foods now but cut them out of your diet, you could lose two to five pounds (1-3 
kg) of toxic water you don’t need. People say, “It’s just water, it’s not fat.” To them, I 
say it’s weight you don’t have to carry, and it’s an indication of compromised health. 
Losing it will benefit you. So, lose the water and keep it off; you will look better and, 
more importantly, improve your health!

225 Nutrition and Recovery
Fat Loss
Let start off by understanding how the body responds to hunger, stress, and even 
boredom. We have to understand that we are not the first people to reach for sugary 
and fatty foods when we are stressed, bored, or starving from not eating for four to 
eight hours. Sugar has an enormous impact on the pleasure centers of our brains and 
is addictive. We are wired to want sugary and fatty foods when starved, since our 
brains run on glucose and our bodies use sugar for immediate energy, and the body 
wants fat to store for future famines. That’s why pizza, cookies, burgers, fries, and ice 
cream are the all-time favorites to reach for when you are anxious, bored, celebrating, 
or starved. As you can see, stress, boredom, and starvation can have a huge impact on 
what and when we eat. So, let’s try to keep ourselves from getting so hungry, bored, 
or anxious, and always have healthy nutritional alternatives available everywhere 
for when those moods hit. That way, we don’t sabotage our health and fitness goals.
This is the tricky part and where we detour from standard nutritional dogma. Fat 
loss occurs when your body has to use stored fat because it is not getting enough 
calories to sustain life; to the body, this is called starvation. What you see as a positive 
in reducing the number of calories you take in so you can lose weight, the body (the 
ultimate survival machine) sees as a negative. Your body does not know you are on a 
diet, that you will feed it regularly, or that you have goals. Your body only knows it’s 
not getting enough fuel. It’s like a bear caught in a trap. When you try to free it, the 
bear attacks because it doesn’t understand your motives. In the same way, the hor -
monal machine that is in charge of keeping the body alive reacts to what it perceives 
as starvation. When your body sees the caloric deficit needed to lose fat, the hormone 
machine lowers your metabolic rate, causing you to plateau. Now, you need to burn 
more calories or eat fewer calories to drop more weight. A continued calorie deficit 
doesn’t fix the problem and actually digs you deeper into a hole.
So, how do we lose fat without alarming the body or making it think it is starving? 
Here is where our approach and philosophy to weight (fat) loss takes a different course 
than your standard nutrition dogma. First, we feel that a slow and steady approach 
to weight loss and not the blistering 2 pounds (1 kg) a week (500-calorie deficit per 
day) approved by some organizations is a better approach for ridding your body of fat 
without significant hormonal and organ disruption. We also believe that the natural 
“cheat” foods or meals (e.g., homemade pizza, pasta, non-dairy ice cream) everyone 
lives with can keep the body from freaking out hormonally and actually reset some 
hormones, like leptin.
We believe—although this is not yet scientifically proven—that the body knows 
the difference between abundance and scarcity. We believe the body hormonally acts 
differently when it knows that there is an abundance of frequent and nutritious food 
versus when it feels there is not enough food (i.e., a diet or starving). The thought 
of food, the sight of food, the smell of food, and chewing food all signal that food is 
coming. We strongly believe and have witnessed that the body sees frequent nutrient-
rich feedings as a state of abundant nutrition and is more willing to give up fat when 
that is the world it lives in. We have also witnessed the opposite, where people drop 
weight in aggressive calorie-restricted diets and look “thin-fat.” In our opinion, when 
people practice severe calorie-restricted diets (e.g., below 1,200 for women and below 
1,500 for big men), they get thin but still store fat in places they don’t want it, such 
as their faces, necks, torso, and lower body. Some experts have referred to this type 
of unpleasant fat storage as the “cortisol fat deposition (storage) pattern.” The stress 
of starving, not to mention the stress of life, can spike cortisol, the stress hormone, 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 226
and it can do a number on how you look and feel. So, the key to permanent fat loss 
is to frequently feed your body nutritious, highly thermic (meaning it increases your 
metabolism) food, and make it feel like it’s in a state of abundance. Good foods that 
are highly thermic nourish the body and require calories to digest. We will talk about 
this later in this chapter.
Muscle Gain
The body does not like to put on muscle; it sees muscle as a luxury, not a necessity. 
That’s not to say that added muscle is bad for you or that you should not aspire to 
gain muscle; it’s just not a top priority for the body. If you want to add muscle, you 
want to ensure that your body gets enough calories and enough protein in addition to 
an aggressive muscle-building weight-training program. In our supersize-me world 
and with the advent of nutritional supplements, neither of these should be a problem 
unless you are a hard gainer.
Muscle gain, although not favored by the body, can be easier to accomplish than fat 
loss. The body has a much easier time of putting on weight than taking it off, partly 
because the body sees “abundance” as a better option than starvation. One nutrient 
you will need in order to add muscle is protein. Protein is broken down into amino 
acids, which are the building blocks of muscle and are needed to repair the muscle 
you are disrupting when you train. Good fats are also a favorite food group when 
building muscle due to their concentrated calories. In general, sufficient calories and 
protein are your key nutritional components to developing muscle through a trans -
formation program.
Health and Recovery
We have talked about proper nutrition for fat loss, muscle gain, and inflammatory 
control. This dovetails nicely into recovery, which is essential to meeting your health 
and fitness goals. When you eat foods that are good for you, you nourish your body. 
Food, often foods that are not as nutritious, can also be used as a way of entertaining 
yourself when you are bored or calming yourself when you are anxious—and those 
uses of food will not help you improve your fitness. We will talk more about this dis-
tinction later on in this chapter. Nutrition is about repair and recovery. When you are 
feeding yourself natural or healthy foods, you are giving your body the best possible 
chance to recover and adapt to the stresses the workouts in this book impose on the 
body. It’s that simple. If you put crap products into your car, it runs like crap—and 
the same goes for your body. It’s so ironic to see people insist on high-grade, premium 
gasoline and oil for their cars as they eat doughnuts to fuel their bodies. To those 
people I say, “Treat your body more like you treat your car, and you are off to a good 
start.” Crazy, but true.
Conscious Awareness
You are forewarned: This is where it gets a little crazy, so bear with us. We often hear 
that the obesity epidemic is a matter of education, or lack thereof. Well, I say it depends 
on what you consider education. When people talk about nutrition education, they 
usually mean the mechanics and science of nutrition. In all my years of education, 
every nutrition class or course has dealt with the same things you read in books: the 
biochemistry of nutrition. This covers everything from how many calories are in the 

227 Nutrition and Recovery
three macronutrients to their molecular composition. The basic digestive process is 
covered in most courses as well. The more practical courses deal with actual food prep, 
meal planning, grocery shopping strategies, and portion control. Still, in spite of a 
historical amount of nutrition education at everyone’s fingertips, the obesity problem 
has reached staggering heights. If obesity was due to a lack of traditional education, 
it would have been solved by now. But the weight-loss industry is an utter failure, in 
spite of its multibillion-dollar yearly market value.
According to a study by Marketdata Enterprises Inc. ( The U.S. Weight Loss & Diet 
Control Market, 14th edition . https:/ /www.webwire.com/ViewPressRel.asp?aId=209054), 
the U.S. weight-loss industry is a $66 billion machine and climbing at about 3 percent per 
year. This industry serves a population of people, 40 percent of whom are overweight. 
Although the figure can be debated, some experts claim 95 percent of individuals who 
lose weight from dieting gain the weight back within three years! Why is this? Well, 
my opinion is that we have not dealt with why people eat and are obese, and let’s face 
it, we have a ruthless, profit-driven marketplace that does not care whom they prey 
on to make a profit. We also have a society that talks a good talk but does not walk 
the walk; we market sugar-filled products to children, and politicians slash physical 
education budgets in schools. We are starting the race 10 yards behind the starting line.
There is a common saying, “The eyes are the window to the soul.” Maybe we should 
rephrase this to, “The mouth is the window to the soul” in our “I’m stressed out, so 
supersize me so I will forget about my stress” world. Many people may not even real -
ize that much of their food consumption is chemical, habitual, emotional, and even 
psychological (or spiritual, if you will), having nothing to do with a lack of traditional 
nutritional education or nourishing the body. I believe that is very hard for addicts to 
take control of an addiction, especially if they are not even aware there is an addiction. 
Therefore, once people are aware of how they are using food, they can make conscious 
decisions to control not only their nutrition but also their health and their lives.
How do people become aware of their nutritional habits in a way that can really 
help them understand how to take control of their health and appearance? I think 
the first step is to create an awareness of what drives us to eat, and beyond that, to 
eat certain foods. Then we create a nutritional conscience or inner voice of reason. 
Believe it or not, our conscience can be exercised, and like all things that are worked, 
it can get stronger. There are seven logical steps to creating this nutritional aware -
ness and conscience.
SEVEN STEPS TO AWARENESS AND A NUTRITIONAL CONSCIENCE
1. The body does not take in foods; it takes in and uses the chemicals (the com-
pounds) in food. You have to see food as a compound you put in your body for 
the right reason: to nourish it.
2. One of society’s biggest issues is the addiction to certain compounds, such as 
opioids and illegal drugs. People medicate themselves to blunt emotions or 
escape life’s challenges.
3. Sugar is a powerful compound that acts on the same reward centers of the brain 
as other addictive drugs such as nicotine, cocaine, and opioids. In my opinion, 
and some experts agree with me, sugar may well be addictive. It is legal, avail-
able everywhere, and found in many foods. Sugar is also what the brain runs 
on, so when you have not eaten in many hours, sugar is what you reach for first.
4. Stress or boredom often manifest as an oral fixation (sensation), such as how a 
baby stops crying when you put a pacifier in his or her mouth. Humans also often 
drink, eat, smoke, or chew gum to help them calm down when they are anxious.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 228
5. Society associates large food quantities of high-calorie foods with a good experi-
ence (a good time or a good deal), as in the food quality and quantity at an event 
or restaurant. So, you are culturally driven to consume large quantity of rich 
foods to celebrate. We don’t blow out birthday candles on a salad!
6. Every time you feel the urge to eat, ask yourself, “Am I hungry, bored, or anx-
ious?” If you ate a few minutes or even an hour ago, you probably aren’t physi-
cally hungry. More likely, you are feeling an emotion such as boredom or anxiety.
7. Every time you eat, ask yourself, “Am I medicating, entertaining, or celebrating 
with food? Or am I nourishing my body?”
Being aware of the first five steps above allows you to exercise your nutritional 
conscience in the last two. When you feel the need to eat, think about how long ago 
you ate and what you ate. If you ate a good meal (over 300 well-proportioned calories) 
30 minutes ago, you are probably anxious, not hungry. But if you ate a salad (about 
150 calories) within the last 90 minutes, then you could be hungry.
If you determine that you are legitimately hungry, then eat. If you are not sure, drink 
8-10 ounces of water and wait five minutes. The water fills you up a little, plus it helps 
with the oral sensation that boredom or stress can create. The pause makes you aware 
of how you feel, instead of being compulsive; this is a practice. If after five minutes you 
still don’t know, drink a protein shake (200-300 calories with 20-40 grams of protein). 
That should do it. But if you still want what you want, then eat it and be done with it.
The more you practice these conscious decisions, the better you get and the quieter 
the inner dialogue becomes. Eating well becomes easier when it becomes a lifestyle, 
and you work your own program. The following section will cover the strategies you 
can implement to create your unique program.
Strategies for Optimal Health and Fat Loss
As we mentioned, four factors involved in energy expenditure regulate your weight 
and health: BMR, TEF, exercise, and NEAT. Burning more calories will help you lose 
weight and, more importantly, fat, although BMR slows down with age and when 
dieting. However, BMR can be boosted by putting on muscle and eating frequent and 
nutritious meals with sufficient calories. This is where our muscle-building workouts 
and nutritional strategies come into play. TEF can be boosted by consuming more pro-
tein and veggies and less refined and processed foods while reducing caloric intake. 
The exercise component can be boosted by performing workouts from this book 3 or 
4 times per week, and if you can’t get to your workout, walk. Walking is one of the 
most effective activities to drop weight and keep it off. Walking uses a good amount 
of calories without stressing the body. Finally, buy a smartwatch or any other device 
that monitors steps and get your steps in. Nothing under 6,000 steps six days a week 
is acceptable!
If you follow these guidelines, your total daily energy expenditure increases. Let’s 
consider the example of a person who weighs 200 pounds (91 kg), is sedentary, has 20 
percent body fat, and eats highly processed foods. Since he does not move much, his 
total caloric expenditure is 2,300 calories per day, consisting of 1,650 calories in BMR, 
0 from exercise, 500 calories from NEAT, and a TEF of about 150 calories (figure 16.2).
Two months later, he has put on some muscle, eats highly thermic foods, and gets 
in more walking with the dog, parking further way, taking stairs, shopping in the 
mall, and other activities. His pattern (figure 16.3) looks totally different. The added 

229 Nutrition and Recovery
Figure 16.2 Energy expenditure of a 
200-pound (91 kg), sedentary man who 
eats processed foods.E7272/Santana/F16.02/609658/mh-R12,300
caloriesNEAT (21 .75%)
TEF (6.50%)
BMR
(71 .75%)
muscle from the workouts and better eating habits elevates his BMR to a whopping 
2,000, exercise adds a modest 300, his NEAT is now at 600, and he has more than 
doubled his TEF to 320. His total caloric expenditure is up to 3,220. He is not count -
ing calories and can barely keep up with eating the great foods he is consuming. 
He craves nothing because he can have anything he wants in moderation and with 
good planning.
If you want to get lean and healthy, you have to plan and execute. It’s just like going 
to work because you need to pay the bills; you go to work and make that money then 
budget your money so your bills are paid on time. Losing weight takes no less planning.
Programming Nutrition
Just like we program training, we can program nutrition. There are three variables in 
the programming of nutrition: frequency, quality, and quantity. We work them in this 
order because success in one leads to an automatic success in the other.
Frequency is important because it regulates hunger, hormones and, to a certain 
degree, energy expenditure. The rule is that you can’t skip a meal, no matter what. 
When constantly fed, you are calmer. You are in a nutritional-abundance state of mind, 
so you binge less, and you make better choices. This leads to a change in the quality 
of food. When you are calm, not starving, and thinking about nourishing your body, 
you automatically choose healthier foods. These healthier foods add more volume 
and nutrients to your food intake while reducing the caloric density of the food. Your 
quantity is taken care of; more food of better quality, with fewer calories. Now, let’s 
talk some simple techniques that can help you practice using your conscience!Figure 16.3 Energy expenditure of a 
200-pound (91 kg), active, moderately 
muscled man who eats highly thermic 
foods.E7272/Santana/F16.03/609659/mh-R13,220
caloriesNEAT (18.63%)
TEF (9.93%)Exercise (9.35%)
BMR
(62.11%)

JC’s Total Body Transformation 230
Nutritional Techniques
Everyone should practice these techniques since they are centered around conscious nutri -
tion, not impulsive nutrition. Whether you are gaining muscle or reducing fat, what you 
put into your body matters, so create an environment that helps you make good choices.
• Ask the important question: Am I hungry, anxious, bored, or celebrating? Then, 
practice the water and protein shake strategies on page 228 as needed.
• Keep a bottle of water at your desk, in your car, and in your backpack/gym bag. 
Drinking water throughout the day is the single most effective strategy to reduce 
the oral sensation associated with anxiety and reduces hunger while keeping 
you hydrated. It’s a win-win all around.
• Have healthy food options with you at all times: in your purse, console of 
your car, gym bag, office, home, etc. Protein powders, ready-to-drink meal  
replacements, protein bars, fruits, almonds, and prepared foods will help you 
maintain frequency of eating.
• Reduce the availability of unhealthy foods. This is simple: If it does not belong in 
your stomach, don’t have it in the house or office! If you want it badly enough, 
drive (or better yet, walk) to get it.
• Never shop for groceries while hungry. If you had a rough day and could not 
eat something before grocery shopping, go into the store for a protein shake or 
other healthy snack, and then shop the perimeter of the store for veggies and 
protein before shopping the middle aisles. This keeps your hunger from doing 
the shopping and allows your conscience to take over.
JC’s Prep for a Big Meal or Party
To reduce the negative impact of sugar, consume foods rich in fiber and oils 
(for example, cruciferous vegetables and fish oils). Both lower the glycemic 
index of sugary meals. Not too hard to follow, right? To preserve your health 
during holidays or vacations, here are three tips that combine eating strategies 
with exercise.
Tip 1:  The day before the big meal, get in an extra 30 to 40 minutes of 
walking and drink 80 to 100 ounces of water. Have a healthy dinner the 
night before, and consume fiber-rich foods and 3 to 6 grams of fish oils 
throughout the day.
Tip 2:  The day of the eating event, wake up 20 minutes earlier and use 
that time to walk. Keep consuming water (up to 120 ounces) throughout 
the day. The liquid in shakes counts, so drink up. Don’t skimp on eating 
before the big dinner. I recommend having the JC Smoothie for breakfast; 
a protein shake for a snack; and salad and chicken with 3 grams of fish oil 
for lunch. Walk for 30 minutes before the dinner. When you get home, 
drink a protein shake or water, with food that has 2 to 3 grams of fiber 
and 3 to 4 grams of fish oil. Go to dinner and enjoy.
Tip 3:  The day after the event, repeat the healthy eating, water drinking, 
and walking you performed the day of the event. If you overate at the 
event, repeat tip 3 for 2 or 3 days.

231 Nutrition and Recovery
• Before going to a party or restaurant, drink a protein shake or eat a serving of 
almonds. The protein drink may keep you from quenching your thirst with alco-
hol or sodas, and having something in your stomach can help you to minimize 
the calorie-rich party or restaurant foods you may want to eat. You can enjoy 
the party or restaurant and taste your food, not scarf it down.
• Buy a blender and make nutritious smoothies. These can be part of your daily 
routine, and certainly before you go to a party or to a restaurant. Here is my 
favorite smoothie recipe, called the JC Smoothie. Start with 20-50 grams of protein 
(I like Labrada Lean Body), 1 cup kale or spinach, 1/2 cup carrots, 1/2 cup celery, 
1/2 cup tomato, 1/2 cup blueberries, 1/2 cup raspberries, 1/2 cup banana, 1/4 
cup beets, and a small cube of ginger. I freeze all my veggies and fruits so they 
make the drink cold and thick.
• Finally, I’m the only person I know who does this so it may not work for every-
one, but I believe in my fish oil sandwich. Nothing can make a bad meal healthy, 
but if anything can make it less bad, it’s fish oil. I call these better bad choices. If 
I know I’m going to tear up the town on food consumption such as Christmas 
Eve at our Cuban get-together, I take 3 grams of fish oil before the party and 3 
grams when I get back. The oil will blunt the glycemic spike of carbs, and will 
help with the ratio of bad fats to good fats.
These are the big strategies that will help you stay on track while being able to enjoy 
life. Nutrition and life are about steady progress and balance. Nothing good in life 
comes fast or easy: All beautiful things, like a loving relationship and job fulfillment, 
take time to develop. Work your program, and it will pay off.
Menus
This section is not meant to provide detailed menus, food prep, or even a grocery 
shopping list. We just want to provide a general example of two of the most popular 
menus we use at IHP . These meal plans are based on meal frequency and nutrient 
timing. We emphasize small meals eaten at moderate to high frequency throughout 
the day with no gap between meals/snacks lasting more than 3 hours in order to 
control your metabolism and ultimately hunger and cravings. Most women will lose 
weight with the 1,500-calorie menu and gain muscle with the 2,000-calorie intake. 
Most men will drop weight with 2,000 to 2,300 calories daily and gain weight with 
a daily intake of 3,000 calories. To turn the 2,000-calorie menu into a 2,300-calorie 
menu, simply add a Labrada Lean Body 40 ready-to-drink shake at the end of your 
workout or before going to sleep. To turn the 2,000-calorie menu into a 3,000-calorie 
menu, increase each portion by 50 percent. This means a 4-ounce fillet becomes a 
6-ounce fillet, and 3 cups of veggies become 4.5 cups of veggies! Anything beyond 
this general recommendations can be figured out using an app or website such as 
MyFitnessPal or CalorieKing.
The 40 percent protein, 30 percent carb, and 30 percent fat plans included in this sec -
tion are a good start to behavioral modification toward a healthier and fitter lifestyle 
because of the fundamental balance in macronutrients. These plans are relatively easy 
to initiate and maintain, making them a perfect starting point for most people. Both 
plans consist of moderate carbohydrate plus a good amount of protein and fat. As with 
any dietary recommendation, it is important to express the importance of macronutri -
ent quality: lean protein sources, complex carbohydrates, fibrous and colorful fruits 
and vegetables, and healthy unsaturated fats.

2321,500 Calories (40%C/30%P/30%F) Moderate CHO
Basic meal plan and calorie breakdown for a possible weight-loss program for 
a woman.
Shake
1 scoop whey protein isolate
1 cup frozen blueberries
8 ounces almond milk
Breakfast
1 piece of Ezekiel toast
1 egg, scrambled or fried
1/8 of an avocado
1 teaspoon raspberry preserves (no sugar added)
Lunch
3 ounces grilled chicken
2 cups mixed greens and baby spinach
2/3 cup of kidney beans
1 ounce reduced-fat cheese
1 teaspoon of balsamic vinegar and 1/2 teaspoon of olive oil
Snack
1/2 cup plain nonfat yogurt
1 tablespoon chopped walnuts
Cinnamon to taste
Dinner
3 ounces grilled salmon
1 cup cooked string beans
1/2 cup cooked brown rice
CHO: 140 g
Pro: 111 g
Fat: 52 g
Hydration is extremely important when changing your eating behavior. Being 
and staying hydrated will help control cravings, curb appetite, improve digestion, 
and help to generally detoxify the body. Hydrate via herbal teas and mineral and 
seltzer water. Be mindful that calories from liquids add up fast. It’s better to eat 
4 apples than to have 8 ounces of apple juice.

2332,000 Calories (40%C/30%P/30%F) Moderate CHO
Basic meal plan and calorie breakdown for a possible weight-loss program for 
a man.
Shake
1 scoop of whey protein isolate
1 cup frozen blueberries
8 ounces of almond milk
Breakfast
2 pieces of Ezekiel toast
2 eggs, scrambled or fried
1/2 of an avocado
1 teaspoon of raspberry preserves (no sugar added)
1/2 of a grapefruit
Lunch
3 ounces grilled chicken
2 cups mixed greens and baby spinach
2/3 cup of kidney beans
1 ounce reduced-fat cheese
1 teaspoon of balsamic vinegar and 1/2 teaspoon of olive oil
Snack
1 cup plain nonfat yogurt
1 tablespoon chopped walnuts
Cinnamon to taste
Dinner
4 ounces grilled salmon
1 cup cooked string beans
1 cup cooked brown rice
CHO: 209 g
Pro: 143 g
Fat: 69 g

JC’s Total Body Transformation 234
Supplementation
Like the menu section, this supplement section deals with the essentials—what we 
recommend for most people. Before taking any supplements, it is important to talk 
with your doctor or dietitian to ensure that adding these substances to your diet is 
healthy for you. We do not provide an all-inclusive list of effective supplements here. 
Rather, we refer to the International Society of Sports Nutrition (ISSN) for the latest 
in nutrition and supplement education and research. Their certification is a must for 
all personal trainers. Here are the basic supplements and their scientifically proven 
therapeutic dosage ranges according to the ISSN, not the U.S. RDA recommendations.
Protein
Whey and casein proteins are two of the protein supplements used most often. Whey 
(isolate) is the fastest acting and works well as a workout drink (before, during, or after 
your workout) and fast snack. Whey protein includes high levels of all the essential 
amino acids and branched-chain amino acids. Casein protein is rich in glutamine and 
is slow acting. It’s an excellent choice as a late-evening snack. Supplementing protein 
can ensure you get the protein you need to put on muscle each day. My recommen-
dation for protein intake for active people who are strength training is based on their 
body weight in grams. A person with 150 pounds (68 kg) of lean body weight should 
consume up to 150 grams of protein per day.
Fish Oils
Fish oils are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which are a combination of EPA and DHA 
(best ratio is 2:1). The best sources of omega-3 are from fish oils, not plants or nuts. 
The best food sources are fatty fish (e.g., salmon, tuna, herring, mackerel, sardines). 
Therapeutic dosages can run from 2 to 6 grams EPA + DHA for high levels of sup-
port. This level may pose some potential health problems if you are on blood-thinning 
medicine like aspirin, so always consult your doctor, but make sure he or she knows 
a little bit about supplements!
Vitamin D, Vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol)
This is the most recommended version because this is the type our body naturally 
makes from sunlight. Sunlight represents 80 to 90 percent of our intake of vitamin D. 
The recommended dosage of vitamin D is 800 to 1,000 IU for adult men. For women, 
the dosage is 2,000 IU combined with calcium.
Multivitamin/Mineral
If you have a healthy and balanced diet, you should not need a multivitamin. How-
ever, most people do not eat well all the time, so it is important to cover nutritional 
gaps with a multivitamin and mineral supplement. A basic Twinlab Daily or Klean 
multivitamin are our standard recommendations. I myself have been on the Twinlab 
daily (no iron for men and with iron for women) for 10 years.
Supplements for Sport Performance and Muscle Gain
Many supplements can be used to improve performance, add muscle, and help you 
recover. However, there are also things one can do to help the body recover and 

235 Nutrition and Recovery
create an environment for optimal performance. The following are my favorite go-to 
supplements and strategies for optimal muscle building and recovery. We give it to 
you simple, practical, and effective.
Creatine
Creatine is one of the most extensively studied nutritional supplements, and most 
findings indicate it works. Creatine improves muscle performance during high-
intensity exercise and supports hypertrophy. Vegetarians may have a greater response 
to supplementation because of their limited intakes of dietary creatine. It’s not neces-
sary to load creatine, and 3 to 5 grams daily will improve strength and speed while 
increasing muscle size.
Beta-Alanine/Carnosine
Beta-alanine is an amino acid combined with histidine, another amino acid, to form 
carnosine. Carnosine helps to buffer hydrogen that results from the disassociation of 
lactic acid, therefore allowing muscles to work longer at high intensity before high 
hydrogen concentration shuts them down. There is also evidence showing a combi-
nation of beta-alanine and creatine will help you gain more muscle mass and lose 
more body fat than if you took creatine alone, so both make a good “stack.” Take 1 to 
2 grams of beta-alanine immediately before and after every workout in addition to 
your shakes and creatine. On nonworkout days, take 2 grams with breakfast, along 
with 3 to 5 grams of creatine.
Recovery and Stress Management
Few people have died or even gotten sick from not working out, but the same can’t be 
said about not recovering and being all stressed out. I think science would back me up 
in this: out-of-shape, calm people outlive in-shape, stressed-out people. Stress in any 
form, even from lack of sleep, is a killer. Often more sleep and better stress manage-
ment are a better option than joining a gym and staying all stressed out.
Life in the modern world is hectic. Long work hours, chronic stress, late-night 
shifts, and a multitude of other factors are robbing us of the ability to unwind and 
shut off our minds. People are stressing out over work, not having enough money, not 
looking and feeling their best, and not having enough time to really enjoy life. With 
today’s extended workweek and 24-hour access to phones, texts, and social media, 
what else do you think is on the rise? You got it: Stress! Our growing dependence 
on our constantly present electronic devices is possibly one of the biggest obstacles 
to controlling stress and recovering. Smartphones, TVs, video games, and laptops 
dominate every feature of our daily living, and the constant images and data that 
electronics throw at us keep us stimulated and stressed out for prolonged periods 
of time.
There are some indicators that our society is stressed out and not recovering. One 
indicator is the increased use of mind-numbing drugs, from heroin to opioids! What’s 
on the decline? You got it: Sleep and relaxation (stress management). Many people head 
to gyms to exercise and “get rid of stress.” For some, that works. Although exercise 
will help you deal with stress, exercise itself is a stressor, and using up what little sleep 
and rest time you may be getting to hit the gym just may push your immune system 
overboard! Trying to fix your stressed-out and out-of-control life with exercise is like 
trying to take supplements to undo a crappy diet! It’s not going to work.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 236
Stress Hormones and Health
There are two types of stress: acute (short term) and chronic (prolonged). The acute 
stuff happens to everyone. It’s short-lived, and the body will naturally return to normal. 
However, when stress takes over your life, and you are stuck in the fight mode of 
the fight-or-flight response to stress, you could be in trouble. Chronic stress does a 
number on your body, cranking out hormones like glucagon, epinephrine (adrena-
line), norepinephrine, cortisol, and growth hormone, just to name a few. Constant, 
high levels of these hormones can lead to long-term health problems such as chronic 
fatigue and inflammation, suppressed immune function, poor sleep, weight gain, vari-
ous endocrine dysfunctions, increased anxiety, and poor performance in all aspects of 
life. Therefore, no matter how hard you work out, if you don’t recover from workouts 
and your active life, your workouts and active life can end up doing you more harm 
than good. Getting your stress under control will ensure that practicing the training 
and nutritional strategies contained in this book will pay off big dividends.
Stress Management: 3-2-5 Breathing
There are many aspects to stress, its hormonal response, and the various ways you 
can manage it. In general terms, some of the basic things you can do to manage your 
stress include:
• Eating a healthy diet and getting regular exercise and plenty of sleep.
• Practicing relaxation techniques such as deep breathing.
• Taking time for relaxing hobbies, such as reading a book or listening to music.
• Fostering healthy friendships and laughing with friends.
Of all these, the one I love to teach my athletes and friends is the 3-2-5 breathing 
technique. This is a simple technique that can be done anywhere and can help you lower 
your heart rate by as much as 30 to 40 percent if you get really good at it. It’s simple:
• Push your tongue to the roof of your mouth.
• Breathe in deeply for a slow three count.
• Hold for two seconds.
• Breathe out through pursed lips for a slow five count.
• Perform five rounds five times per day. The slower the count, the better.
This is your stress management workout! You can do this in your car when stressed 
out if you are late or irritated due to heavy traffic, during a lunch or work break, before 
sleep, and during any moment of anxiety.
Note: Put five daily alarms on your phone that say 3-2-5 and do it; it will change 
your life.
If you are really stressed out, put the 3-2-5 on steroids and practice present moment 
awareness (PMA), or the now, as Eckhart Tolle would call it. I learned this technique 
from Sharon Byrne of Life Mastery, one of my many spiritual coaches. Although some 
spiritual gurus can spend hours in meditation, I have meditation ADD and need 
something shorter. Therefore, my basic form of PMA lasts as little as 90 seconds, but 
I usually do 2-3 minutes.
• For 30 to 60 seconds, look at everything around you. Don’t assign it a name, 
meaning, or identity. Just look at colors, shapes, and movement. You just see 
and acknowledge everything there is to see.

237 Nutrition and Recovery
• For the next 30 to 60 seconds, start listening to everything around you. Don’t 
assign it a name, meaning, or identity. Just listen to sounds, volume, and loca-
tion. By now you should be seeing, hearing, and acknowledging everything 
there is to see and hear.
• For the next 30 to 60 seconds, add feeling all the sensations you are feeling (the 
touch of your clothing on your body, the breeze or temperature on your skin, the 
ground under your bare feet, and even whatever tension you may be feeling and 
its location in your body). Don’t assign the feeling or sensation a name, meaning, 
or identity, just acknowledge it. By now you should be seeing, hearing, feeling, 
and acknowledging everything there is to see, hear, feel.
The 3-2-5 breathing and PMA are the two single most powerful stress management 
strategies I have ever come across, and they have helped my clients calm their stress -
ful lives. Practicing stress management in this fashion has helped me get off the sleep 
medications I used for 10 years. If it worked for my severe stress, it probably can do 
you some good, too. Try it for 2 weeks. I bet you will feel better.
Sleep
The last thing this chapter covers is sleep, something most people don’t get enough of. 
As I tell my athletes, the stimulus happens in the gym, but the adaptations occur while 
you sleep. That’s right; you don’t get bigger and stronger in the gym. You get bigger 
and stronger while you sleep. Although everyone inherently knows the importance 
of good sleep and rest, few people in our technologically driven society get enough 
sleep and rest. Insomnia (not being able to sleep) is becoming increasingly common 
these days, and it negatively affects our society, from work productivity, to personal 
safety, to health care costs.
Some of the basic causes of insomnia are:
• Technology—Our addiction to electronic devices may be one of the biggest 
obstacles to restful sleep. Smartphones, TVs, video games, and laptops pretty much 
rule our everyday lives.
• Persistent stress at work or at home—Everyday problems (e.g., pressures of 
work or relationships) that are not addressed plague our subconscious and can keep 
us anxious without us even knowing why.
• Poor sleep hygiene—Those who don’t have a sleep routine keep their rooms 
full of light, noise, or physical distractions that can cause trouble falling asleep or 
staying asleep.
• Other health issues—Some health problems such as sleep apnea, depression, 
chronic pain, digestive issues, or urinary problems can wreak havoc on getting a good 
night’s sleep.
• The graveyard shift—For an animal who is programmed to be up with the sun 
and down with the sun, working the night shift can create a host of problems in get-
ting adequate sleep.
• Genetic causes—We did not know this previously, but new evidence indicates 
that there is a genetic link that predisposes people to insomnia.
So what can you do? Your best allies against insomnia are quiet, comfort, relaxation, 
and good sleep habits (i.e., a routine).

JC’s Total Body Transformation 238
• Make your bedroom a recovery sanctuary. Your bedroom should be quiet, dark, 
cool, comfortable, and relaxed. I like the idea of using the bedroom for sleeping, relax-
ing, and sex. I prefer no TV , computers, or any other electronic distractors in the room. 
Teach your body that the bedroom is for recovery, and it will respond with better sleep.
• Create a relaxing sleep routine. A good sleep routine creates a habit and sleep-
ing is exactly that—a good habit. Whatever works for you is fine, such as reading or 
meditation 30 minutes before lights out. Try to go to bed and wake up close to the 
same time every day.
• T urn off all screens at least an hour before bed. Electronic screens emit a blue 
light that disrupts your body’s production of melatonin and combats sleepiness. So 
instead of watching TV or spending time on your phone, tablet, or computer, choose 
another relaxing activity, such as reading a book or listening to soft music.
• Avoid anything that cranks you up or makes your mind busy. This includes 
avoiding all electronic communication devices and social media activities, big discus-
sions or arguments with your spouse or family, or work-related activities—all can 
wait until the morning. Also, although naps can help you catch up on sleep, they can 
interfere with your night sleeping so be careful with naps if you have problems with 
night sleeping.
Summary
Nutrition is the most important aspect of developing a great looking, highly func-
tioning body. We must address the enormous emotional component of nutrition if 
we are going to really understand weight management and good health. Techniques 
and strategies that support nutritional consciousness help us make better decisions. 
Supplements can help us achieve health and fitness goal, but can never undo bad 
nutritional choices. You cannot make up for a bad diet with exercise or supplements.
Stress is also a major factor that impacts looks and performance. I believe the condi -
tions that result from stress are some of the biggest, if not the biggest, health problems 
our society faces today. Although a good fitness workout can help with stress, we 
can’t expect to manage our stress with just exercise, especially if extra time is limited 
or nonexistent. Of course, life will have its challenges and stressful moments, but 
scheduling your life so that you can deal with stresses when they come, yet be able 
to sustain a fit, healthy, and peaceful existence, is doable and should be at the top of 
everyone’s list. Good nutrition and proper stress management make up a huge part 
of any performance enhancement program.

239
CHAPTER 17
Programming for Success
Since you might have skipped to this section before reading other important 
sections of this book, I will take this opportunity to remind you of some of my 
most common strong recommendations. Let’s start with this one: Take it easy 
and progress slowly. Follow the recommendations I gave you. Each chapter features a 
beginner workout that acts as a prerequisite. Please make sure you are easily beyond 
that point in training before you attempt the workouts. If you are a beginner, or if you 
have never done serious, supervised training, make sure you follow all my recom-
mendations and always take a conservative approach. It’s wise to hire a professional 
certified trainer, even if just for 30 minutes, and show him or her what you want to 
do. Your trainer can teach you the correct movements and help you progress through 
the workout.
This chapter ties the entire book together. I want to bring in a few of my industry 
friends and fitness superstars to add some variety and spice. Generally, the workouts 
in this book are intense and focused on a body part or performance outcome. This is 
especially true when it comes to weeks 3 and 4 for most of the workouts. Therefore, 
a beginner can use this book, and the workouts quickly take you to the professional 
level of IHP’s elite athletes if you follow all the recommendations.
Programming still challenges most trainers and fitness aficionados. Putting together 
a workout seems to be the biggest request I get from fans and clients. Creating a solid 
monthly or yearly plan is something that virtually everyone struggles with. Therefore, 
I’m going to try to help you develop a weekly, monthly, and yearly training plan.
Daily, Monthly, and Yearly Programming
Most of the people I know cycle their training, sometimes by default, not design. Some 
plan their training around vacations or get sick or busy and can’t train. Whether it’s 
planned or by circumstances, life assures us that there are high and lows in our training. 
However, when the highs and lows and the stuff in between is planned, gains come 
bigger and faster and with fewer injuries. Functional Training includes an extensive 
review of programming and periodization and has all the information you need to 
vary programming deliberately. That book focuses on sports, but the periodization 
and programming guidelines can be used for fitness programming as well.
The concept of managing training over time is called periodization.  Periodization is 
the art and science of manipulating the training variables intensity (load), volume (sets 
× reps × load), and frequency (number of workouts) over time. Many people do the 
same thing every workout until they get sick, hurt, tired, or bored or take a vacation. 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 240
Then they start up and do it all over again; that’s their idea of periodization. However, 
there is a way to plan training so you don’t get sick, hurt, tired, or bored, and vacation 
is a planned off-season. This is how to do it.
Traditional periodization has four basic periods of training:
1. Hypertrophy or conditioning to create a base of training. Repetitions of traditional 
exercises are in the 8 to 15 range with moderate weight for 12 to 20 weekly sets.
2. Strength to get as strong as possible. Sets and reps are cut in half. Repetitions 
of traditional exercises are in the 4 to 6 range with the heaviest weight possible 
for 10 to 12 weekly sets.
3. Power to gain power and speed through explosive training. Five repetitions of 
traditional exercises with moderate weight are used, followed by a 1-minute 
rest and a light, explosive exercise similar to the traditional exercise. Weekly 
sets are 8 to 12.
4. Power endurance to create resistance against fatigue and hit the nitrous oxide 
button with metabolic training. This is the best period to burn fat and get ready 
for a photo shoot or a hard event. But you can’t stay in this phase forever; you 
will crash after a month or so. Five repetitions of traditional exercises with mod-
erate weight is used, followed by an explosive exercise similar to the traditional 
exercise. Weekly sets are 8 to 12.
I like to do three- or four-week cycles of each phase, but you can do two if you are 
tight for time or are just not interested in that phase.
Chronic Programming
Planning a few months or a year is easy once you understand that a month of training 
is as easy as a week of training performed four times. Once you have the four phases, 
and assuming you want to perform all cycles, a training block can look like this:
1. Hypertrophy: 2-4 weeks
2. Strength: 2-4 weeks
3. Power: 2-4 weeks
4. Power endurance: 2-4 weeks
The training block (multiple cycles in sequence) can be repeated as desired. You 
may take a week off every couple of cycles or at the end of a block. Prioritize training 
according to your needs. If you need more size, extend the hypertrophy phase. If you 
are big and strong but need more power and power endurance, shorten the first two 
phases and lengthen the power and power endurance phases.
If you want to cycle only hypertrophy and strength, it can look like this:
1. Hypertrophy: 2-4 weeks
2. Strength: 2-4 weeks
3. Hypertrophy: 2-4 weeks
4. Strength: 2-4 weeks
5. Repeat
This example is typical for bodybuilders, but most other athletes use all four cycles. 
If you come off a competition and need to peak again quickly, execute the power and 
power endurance phases if you have more than five weeks:

241 Programming for Success
1. Competition
2. Power: 1-2 weeks
3. Power endurance: 3-4 weeks
4. Competition
If you have less time, repeat a few weeks of the power endurance phase to keep your 
peak:
1. Competition
2. Power endurance: 2-3 weeks
3. Competition
Let’s look at a sample year from someone who runs 10k and Obstacle Course Racing 
(OCR) races. This is how he or she can get ready for races and even take a vacation:
1. Hypertrophy: 3 weeks
2. Strength: 4 weeks
3. Power: 4 weeks
4. Power endurance: 4 weeks
5. Competition
6. Power: 2 weeks
7. Power endurance: 3 weeks
8. Competition
9. Vacation
10. Hypertrophy: 1-2 week
11. Strength: 2 weeks
12. Power: 2-3 weeks
13. Power endurance: 4 weeks
14. Competition
As you can see, once you know when to peak and when to wind down, schedul -
ing training becomes easy. You can prioritize and dedicate ample time to the type of 
training you need. Continue to cycle your training, and you reduce the chances of 
overtraining so you can peak at the right time.
Managing a Workout
Many people don’t have the time or physicality to perform the final weeks of the 
workouts in this book (e.g., weeks 3 and 4 of the four-week progressions could take 
90 to 120 minutes). For people with limited time or recovery capacity, the volume of 
the first two weeks is perfect; just substitute and change exercises. Even using portions 
of the workouts or combining exercises from different workouts can create the perfect 
workout for a special situation. This is especially true if you want to tackle multiple 
body parts in one day. Let’s look at how to create short, grab-and-go workouts from 
the workouts in this book.
Let’s create a half-hour chest routine and a one-hour chest and back routine so you 
can see how this works. For example, we can create a short, 30-minute chest routine 
by taking his chest workout 3 (page 115) and chopping it down to the basics: selecting  

JC’s Total Body Transformation 242
exercises 1a, 2a, and 3a and performing the volume in week 2. That’s 9 sets of 12 reps 
for the chest. Taking 3 minutes per set gives you 27 minutes; that’s an easy day.
If you want to work your chest and your back in about an hour, you can combine 
the his chest workout 3 (page 115) and his  back workout 4 (page 135). Taking major, 
compound exercises from each workout, we can create a shorter workout by taking 
exercises 1a, 2a, and 3a from the his  chest workout 3 and exercises 1, 2, and 3 from the 
his back workout 4. Again, most people will do very well staying within the volumes 
outlined in weeks 1 and 2. If you choose the volume of week 2 of each workout, you 
get this nice routine for the chest and back.
1a. DB incline bench press 3 × 10-12
1b. DB bench press 3 × 10-12
1c. DB decline bench press (or weighted dips) 3 × 10-12
2a. Wide-grip pull-down 3 × 10-12
2b. Cable V-handle row 3 × 10-12
2c. Barbell bent-over row 3 × 10-12
If you are in a hurry, you can superset 1a and 2a, 1b and 2b, and 1c and 2c. At four 
minutes per superset, three supersets per number, and three sets each superset, you 
get 36 minutes. If you have more time, you can perform each exercise in the order 
presented with plenty of rest between each set. At two to three minutes per set, six 
exercises, and three sets each exercise, you get 36-54 minutes.
Another great example of combining the workouts in this book is to combine syn -
ergistic body parts, such as combining chest, shoulders, and triceps, and combining 
back, rear shoulders, and biceps. The advantage of combining synergistic body parts 
is its efficiency; exercises for the preceding body part prefatigue the subsequent body 
part, requiring less work from each of the subsequent body parts. For example, doing 
chest presses also works the shoulders, so the front shoulders are already pumped by 
the time you get to shoulder presses. Likewise, both the chest and shoulder presses 
work the triceps, so after doing a few sets of chest and shoulder presses, your triceps 
are cooked, and only a few sets are needed to finish them off. The same thing goes for 
the back pulling muscles and the biceps. Basically, take two of the major traditional 
strength exercises for each body part, and put them in a series. Start with the bigger 
muscle group and work toward the smallest. Table 17 .1 shows two very common com -
binations and synergistic workouts for the pushing and pulling musculature.
Table 17.1 Synergistic Workouts for Pushing and Pulling
COMBINED PUSHING WORKOUT  
(CHEST, SHOULDERS, TRICEPS) COMBINED PULLING WORKOUT (BACK, BICEPS)
ExerciseSets  
and reps ExerciseSets  
and reps
Barbell bench press 3 × 10 Lat pull-down 3 × 10
DB incline fly 3 × 10 Seated machine row 3 × 10
Machine shoulder press 3 × 10 Low rope face pull 3 × 10
DB lateral fly 3 × 10 Cable reverse fly 3 × 15
Triceps push-down 3 × 10 EZ-bar curl 3 × 10
Flush: diamond push-up on bench 1 × failure Flush: neutral grip cable rope curl 1 × failure

243 Programming for Success
This is how easy it is to create new workouts from the workouts offered in this book! 
So, what does a week look like? That is as easy as drag and drop.
Managing a Week and a Month
People often walk into IHP and either want to work out by themselves or want things 
they can do on days they are not training with one of our personal trainers. The train-
ing plans in this section will be a big help if this describes you. It should be noted that 
once we create a week, that becomes the monthly workout; the only things varied are 
load and possibly reps. Normally we increase weight a little (about 2.5 to 5 percent) 
each week and keep the same sets and reps or increase weight significantly (5 to 10 
percent) and drop a couple of reps each week if we want to build more strength.
First, I want to show you a hybrid week since this is 90 percent of what goes on 
at IHP . The IHP hybrid training methodology was covered extensively in Functional 
Training , and I refer you to that text for a complete discussion on the topic and dozens 
of hybrid workouts. Tables 17 .2 and 17 .3 show the basic workout scheme.
During the power phase, rest one minute between exercises 1 and 2. During the 
power endurance phase, transition from exercise 1 to 2 without rest.
Table 17.2 IHP Hybrid Workout: Hypertrophy and Strength
Monday Wednesday Friday
Legs with functional chest, back, and core Chest with functional legs, back, and core Back with functional legs, chest, and core)
Circuit 1 × 3-4 rounds
Barbell squat: 8-15
BP alternating press: 10 per arm
SB roll-out: 20
Circuit 2 × 3-4 rounds
DB lunge: 8-15 per leg
BP single-arm row: 10
Cable short rotation: 20
Circuit 3 × 3-4 rounds
Barbell deadlift: 8-15
Suspension recline row: 10
Hanging knee-up: 10-15Circuit 1 × 3-4 rounds
Barbell incline bench press: 8-15
Single-leg anterior reach: 10
Roller IT massage: 10 sec per leg
Circuit 2 × 3-4 rounds
Machine chest press: 8-15
BP alternating row: 10 per arm
BP low-to-high chop: 20
Circuit 3 × 3-4 rounds
Dip: 8-15
DB single-leg alternating curl: 10 per leg
45-degree bench extension: 15Circuit 1 × 3-4 rounds
Machine pull-down: 8-15
MB lateral reaching lunge: 10 per leg
Kneeling hip flexor stretch: 10 sec per leg
Circuit 2 × 3-4 rounds
BP seated row: 8-15
BP single-arm fly: 10 per arm
BP high-to-low chop: 20
Circuit 3 × 3-4 rounds
DB upright row: 8-15
Runner’s reach: 10 per leg
SB reverse hyperextension: 10-15
Table 17.3 IHP Hybrid Workout: Power and Power Endurance
Monday Wednesday Friday
Legs with functional chest, back, and core Chest with functional legs, back, and core Back with functional legs, chest, and core
Circuit 1 × 3-4 rounds
Barbell squat: 5
Vertical jump: 5
SB roll-out: 20
Circuit 2 × 3-4 rounds
DB lunge: 5 per leg
Split jump: 5 per leg
Cable short rotation: 20
Circuit three × 3-4 rounds
Barbell deadlift: 5
Burpee: 5
Hanging knee-up: 10-15Circuit 1 × 3-4 rounds
Barbell incline bench press: 5
MB chest throw: 5
Roller IT massage: 10 sec per leg
Circuit 2 × 3-4 rounds
Machine chest press: 5
Explosive push-up: 5
BP low-to-high chop: 20
Circuit 3 × 3-4 rounds
Dip: 8-15
MB explosive crossover push-up: 3-5 per side
45-degree bench extension: 15Circuit 1 × 3-4 rounds
Machine pull-down: 5
MB overhead throw: 5
Kneeling hip flexor stretch: 10 sec per leg
Circuit 2 × 3-4 rounds
BP seated row: 5
BP swim: 5
BP high-to-low chop: 20
Circuit 3 × 3-4 rounds
DB upright row: 5 per arm
BP explosive single-arm upright row: 5 per arm
SB reverse hyperextensions: 10-15

JC’s Total Body Transformation 244
This is the most popular scheme our trainers use at IHP . It has rehabilitated bad backs, 
taken off pounds of fat (with the right diet), and helped fighters win championships. 
The workouts are performed for two to four weeks for hypertrophy or conditioning. 
For a two- to four-week strength phase, drop the number of reps on exercises 1 to 4 to 
6. The power and power endurance phases can last two to four weeks each. You can 
perform cardio and enjoy active hobbies on days you do not work out. You can add 
workouts from the agility, quickness, and metabolic chapters of this book if you want 
to add more days to your training. Most of the plans include a blend of conditioning 
and bodybuilding.
The workout shown in table 17 .4 helps you to stay active and healthy. It works well 
if you don’t have specific aesthetic or performance goals.
Table 17.4 Two Days of Functional Training
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Total-body 
functional*Agility Metabolic Speed Total-body 
functional*Fun day Recover
Choose 1 or 2 
functional ex -
ercises from 
each of the 7 
transforma -
tion workouts 
(see chapters 
4-9), and 
perform 2-3 
sets of 10-20 
repsChoose one 
of the agility 
workouts in 
chapter 12, 
and
perform 1-2 
setsChoose one 
metabolic 
proto -
col for the 
legs, push, 
pull, and 
total-body 
sections from 
chapter 12,  
and perform 
1-2 sets of 
eachChoose 
one speed 
protocol from 
chapter 11, 
and
perform 1-2 
sets of each Choose 1 or 2 
functional ex -
ercises from 
each of the 7 
transforma -
tion workouts 
(see chapters 
4-9), and 
perform 2-3 
sets of 10-20 
repsPartake in an 
active hobby 
or slow, long 
cardio (bike 
ride, brisk 
walk, etc.)
* If you choose 8 different functional exercises from the transformational workouts in chapters 4-9, set up 2 circuits, each 
with 4 exercises (each with a lower body, push, pull, core, or arms exercise). Perform each exercise for 10-20 repetitions and 
complete 2-3 sets of each circuit.
Here are some suggestions for creating a full schedule of functional training to do 
on your own:
• If time is tight, do the workouts listed for Monday and Friday.
• For a three-day workout, add Wednesday or Saturday. The order of these two 
days can be switched.
• For a four-day week, perform Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday.
• The agility and quickness workouts can be added last, depending on how much 
training is desired.
The workout shown in table 17 .5 can be cycled month to month by switching the 
emphasis between body parts (i.e., weak body parts), by dropping the reps to 4-6 during 
a two- to four-week strength phase, or by adding metabolic training during a power 
endurance or fat-cutting phase.

245 Programming for Success
Table 17.5 Workout to Grow Muscle and Lose Fat 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Weak body 
part (e.g., 
legs)*Other body 
parts (e.g., 
chest, shoul -
ders, and 
triceps)Fat burn and 
coreWeak body 
part (e.g., 
legs)*Other body 
parts (e.g., 
back and 
biceps)Fun day and 
coreRecover
Choose his  or 
her workout 
4 from the 
leg chapter 
(see chapter 
4) for your 
weakest body 
part that 
you want to 
concentrate 
on and follow 
the progres -
sion provided 
in workoutCombina -
tion pushing 
workout (see 
chapters 7 
and 8)Slow, long 
cardio (bike 
ride, brisk 
walk, etc.)
Choose any 
core workout 
(see chapter 
5) and follow 
progressionChoose his  or 
her workout 
5 from the 
leg chapter 
(see chapter 
4) for your 
weakest body 
part that 
you want to 
concentrate 
on and follow 
progression 
provided in 
workoutCombina -
tion pulling 
workout (see 
chapter 9) Partake in an 
active hobby 
or slow, long 
cardio (bike 
ride, brisk 
walk, etc.)
Choose any 
core workout 
(see chapter 
5) and follow 
the progres -
sion
* This may be a weak body part you want to give more attention to; we used legs as an example.
This workout is for someone who wants to add size to a body part (e.g., legs) while 
dropping body fat. Other body parts are worked on other days, and cardio is added 
to help with fat loss. This is how you can approach this workout.
• Perform the big, high-volume workout for your body part of emphasis on Mon-
days and Thursdays. Usually workouts 4 and 5 are big-volume, bodybuilding 
workouts.
• On Tuesdays and Fridays, combine body parts into pushing and pulling.
• If you have five days to train, add Saturday.
• If time permits, add 20 minutes of light cardio three or four times per week after 
each workout. This will go a long way to accelerating the fat loss.
• Wear some kind of step-counter to motivate you to increase your nonexercise 
activity thermogenesis (NEAT).
• For fat loss, women can have 1,500 calories per day, and men can have 2,000 to 
2,500 calories per day. I also recommend beta-alanine for sustained performance 
and fat loss. This eating recommendation should work for most people. Athletes 
or people with metabolic disorders will differ in energy requirements.
The workout in table 17 .6 can also be cycled month to month by switching the 
emphasis between body parts (i.e., weak body parts) or by dropping the reps to 4-6 
during a two- to four- week strength phase.
This workout is for someone who wants to add size to a body part (e.g., chest) while 
adding body weight, such as a high school athlete trying out for the football team. I 
combine body parts on four days to add as much muscle-building stimulus as possible. 

JC’s Total Body Transformation 246
This is how to approach this workout:
• If you have four days to train, perform the Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and 
Friday workouts.
• If you have five days to train, add Wednesday or Saturday.
• If you have six days to train, obviously add the remaining day.
• If time permits, add two, three, or four 10-second, all-out sprints (one-minute 
rest between each run) on inclined treadmill after each workout to help main-
tain conditioning level. Use the maximum incline and maximum speed you can 
handle at that incline for 10 seconds.
For weight gain, try to consume approximately 15 to 20 times your body weight 
for calories per day (usually 2,000 to 2,500 for women, 3,500 to 4,000 for men). I also 
recommend the creatine and beta-alanine combination for weight gain and sustained 
performance. This eating recommendation should work for most people; special popu -
lations and specific situations will have different requirements.
Table 17 .7 shows a week for someone training hard and devoted to bodybuilding. 
Many people who concentrate on bodybuilding cycle only between hypertrophy and 
strength. For example, they do four weeks of bodybuilding (8 to 15 reps) and four weeks 
of strength by dropping the reps to 4-6 during a two- to four-week strength phase. Even 
for people not interested in performance, I still recommend regular metabolic training 
a couple of times per week; just throw in some sprints at the end of a workout. Sprints 
provide the cardio you need to push your body during muscle-building workouts.
This is how you use the workouts:
• This is a hard schedule that requires time and total dedication, plus at least five 
days of training.
• If you only have five days to train, you can sprinkle the abs and core work 
throughout the week at the end of each workout.
• If time permits, add 20 minutes of light cardio three or four times per week or 
after every workout, if possible.
For weight gain, try to consume 2,000 to 2,500 calories per day for a woman or 3,000 Table 17.6 Workout to Build Muscle and Add Weight
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Weak body 
part (e.g., 
chest)*Other body 
parts (e.g., 
legs and 
hips)Other body 
parts (e.g., 
arm and 
core)Weak body 
part (e.g., 
chest)*Other body 
parts (e.g., 
back)Other body 
parts (e.g., 
shoulders) Recover
Choose his  or 
her workout 
4 from the 
chest chapter 
(see chapter 
8). Perform 
the volume 
for the week 
you feel suits 
your level of 
training. Choose his  or 
her workout 
4 from the 
legs chapter 
(see chapter 
4). Perform 
the volume 
for the week 
you feel suits 
your level of 
training.Choose his  or 
her workout 
4 from the 
arms chapter 
(see chapter 
6). Perform 
the volume 
for the week 
you feel suits 
your level of 
training.Choose his  or 
her workout 
4 from the 
chest chapter 
(see chapter 
8). Perform 
the volume 
for the week 
you feel suits 
your level of 
training.Choose his  or 
her workout 
4 from the 
back chapter 
(see chapter 
9). Perform 
the volume 
for the week 
you feel suits 
your level of 
training.Choose his  or 
her workout 
4 from the 
shoulder 
chapter (see 
chapter 7). 
Perform the 
volume for 
the week you 
feel suits 
your level of 
training.
* This is a weak body part you want to give more attention. I used the chest as an example.

247 Programming for Success
to 3,500 calories per day for a man. I also recommend creatine and beta-alanine supple -
mentation for weight gain and sustained performance. This eating recommendation 
should work for most people; special populations and situations will have different 
requirements.
More Programming Ideas From JC’s Friends
What better way to provide you with more programming ideas than to share training 
plans from some of the big guns in the industry who serve as advisors and colleagues to 
me. I respect these individuals and always look forward to our talks and collaborations.
SANCHEZ SHAPE
Let’s look at one of the split workouts Carla Sanchez uses for some of her bikini competitors 
and personal training clients who want to look and feel their best. This is a 4- to 6-week cycle, 
focusing on different body parts.
Alternate pull/push training split, 3 days per week
Day 1: Legs, back, and abs
Hex bar deadlift 3 × 10-12
SB hamstring curl 3 × 10
V-bar pull-down 3 × 10-12
Suspension recline row 3 × 10-15
EZ-bar biceps curl 3 × 10-12
SB crunch to SB knee tuck superset 3 × 15 + 15
Day 2: Push and abs
Goblet squat and vertical jump 3 × 10-12 + 10
Banded barbell hip thrust and banded hip abduction 3 × 15 + 30
DB incline press 3 × 10-12Table 17.7 Bodybuilding Cycle
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday
Legs/hips Chest Back Shoulders Arms Abs and core 
and supple -
mentalRecover
Perform 
his or her  
legs/hips 
workouts in 
chapter 4.
Perform the 
volume for 
the week you 
feel suits 
your level of 
training.Perform his  
or her  chest 
workouts in 
chapter 8.
Perform the 
volume for 
the week you 
feel suits 
your level of 
training.Perform his  
or her  back 
workouts in 
chapter 9.
Perform the 
volume for 
the week you 
feel suits 
your level of 
training.Perform 
his or her  
shoulders 
workouts in 
chapter 7.
Perform the 
volume for 
the week you 
feel suits 
your level of 
training.Perform his  
or her  arms 
workouts in 
chapter 6.
Perform the 
volume for 
the week you 
feel suits 
your level of 
training.Perform his  
or her  abs 
and core 
workouts in 
chapter 5.
Perform the 
volume for 
the week you 
feel suits 
your level of 
training.
Supplemen -
tal can be 
anything, like 
calf work.

248BP triceps extension 3 × 10-12
Hanging knee tuck 3 × 10-15
Day 3: Booty, back, and abs
Barbell hip thrust 3 × 25
Romanian deadlift and KB swing 3 × 10 + 10
Pull-up with band assistance 3 × 10-12 reps
T-bar or landmine row 3 × 10-12
DB single-arm row 3 × 10-12
JC’s meta abs (leg raise, crunch, and V-up superset) 3 × 10 + 10 + 10
Bicycle crunch 1 × 50-100
EDBERG BUILT:  
MEN’S PROFESSIONAL BODYBUILDING WORKOUT
This workout (table 17.8) is from my good friend and fitness/nutrition genius, Cliff Edberg. This 
weekly workout is part of his elite training for on-stage bodybuilding and physique competition 
performance. Four weeks of this, and you are ready for the final stages of dieting to get on stage 
and win. Cliff is one of the many trainers who uses the time-under-tension approach. He feels he 
can get people to maximize focus on the targeted muscle if they slow down and concentrate on 
what they are doing. Cliff feels that heavier weight can force some people to compensate and 
lose form and tension on targeted muscles. I agree with him and referred to this several times 
throughout this book. His preference is to make sets last 30 to 40 sec. Not too many people 
have the patience for this, but if you give it a try, you will get a great pump with minimal abuse 
to your joints. Try a two- or three-count eccentric movement (lowering the weight), zero- or 
one-count at the bottom, and a one- or two-count concentric movement (lifting the weight) so 
your sets last about 30 to 40 sec. Play with the tempos shown in the workout so that it fits well 
with your preference.
This workout uses a superset format for many of the movements, supersetting agonist and 
antagonist muscles or upper and lower body. This approach to training keeps the body moving 
and is very demanding, providing a huge hormonal response, stimulating muscle growth, and 
accelerating fat burning.
Table 17.8 Edberg Built: Men’s Professional Bodybuilding Workout 
MONDAY
Lift: total upper Sets Reps Tempo Rest
A1. Barbell bench press 4 6 3,0,1,0 1 min
A2. Barbell bent-over row 4 6 3,0,1,0
B1. Barbell incline bench press 3 6 3,0,1,0 1 min
B2. Weighted chin-up 3 6 3,0,1,0
C1. Weighted dip (bent over) 3 8-10 2,0,1,0 1 min
C2. BP row 3 8-10 2,0,1,0
D1. Barbell shoulder press 3 10 2,0,1,0 30 sec
D2. Barbell curl 3 10 2,0,1,0
D3. Barbell lying triceps extension 3 10 2,0,1,0
E1. DB lateral raise 3 10 2,0,1,0 30 sec
E2. DB incline curl 3 10 2,0,1,0
E3. EZ-bar skull crusher 3 10 2,0,1,0

249TUESDAY
Lift: total lower Sets Reps Tempo Rest
Deadlift 4 6 3,0,1,0 2 min
Leg press 4 6 3,0,1,0 1 min
A1. Barbell front squat (elevated heels) 3 8 to 10 2,0,1,0 1 min
A2. Romanian deadlift 3 8 to 10 2,0,1,0
B1. Lying leg curl 3 10 2,0,1,0 30 sec
B2. Walking lunge 3 10 2,0,1,0
C1. Leg extension 3 10 2,0,1,0 30 sec
C2. Glute bridge 3 10 2,0,1,0
D1. Weighted hyperextension 3 10 2,0,1,0 30 sec
D2. Seated calf raise 3 10 2,0,1,0
WEDNESDAY: OFF
THURSDAY
Chest and biceps Sets Reps Tempo Rest
A1. DB incline bench press 3 6 3,0,1,0 30 sec
A2. DB incline biceps curl 3 6 3,0,1,0
B1. DB bench press 3 6 3,0,1,0 30 sec
B2. EZ-bar narrow grip curl 3 10 2,0,1,0
C1. Weighted bench dip 3 10 2,0,1,0 30 sec
C2. DB preacher curl 3 10 2,0,1,0
D1. Pec deck fly 3 10 2,0,1,0 30 sec
D2. BP single-arm curl 3 10 2,0,1,0
FRIDAY
Legs and shoulders Sets Reps Tempo Rest
A1. Hack squat (glute focus) 4 12 2,0,1,0 30 sec
A2. Cable rear delt 4 12 2,0,1,0
B1. Barbell walking lunge 3 12 2,0,1,0 30 sec
B2. Machine lateral raise 3 12 2,0,1,0
C1. 45-degree bench extension 3 10 2,0,1,0 30 sec
C2. Cable shoulder front raise 3 10 2,0,1,0
D1. Machine leg curl 3 12 2,0,1,0 30 sec
D2. Upright row 3 10 2,0,1,0
E1. Standing calf raise 3 15 2,0,1,0 30 sec
E2. Arnold press 3 10 2,0,1,0
SATURDAY
Back and triceps Sets On Tempo Rest
A1. Lat pull-down 3 6 3,0,1,0 30 sec
A2. Machine dip 3 10 2,0,1,0
B1. DB incline bench row 3 6 3,0,1,0 30 sec
B2. DB or barbell skull crusher 3 10 2,0,1,0
C1. Neutral grip pull-down 3 8 3,0,1,0 30 sec
C2. Wide pronated triceps extension 3 10 2,0,1,0
D1. T-bar row 3 10 2,0,1,0 30 sec
D2. Rope triceps extension 3 10 2,0,1,0
SUNDAY: OFF

250HURRICANE ROONEY
This workout is from my friend and one of the most inspirational coaches I know, Martin Rooney. 
This workout is known as hurricane training.  In hurricane training, rest for 30 sec between each 
set and 1 min between each round. If it is too difficult, you can add more rest. Complete this 
workout once or twice a week for 4 weeks in addition to your other training. For more informa -
tion on hurricane training, visit Martin at www.trainingforwarriors.com.
Sample Hurricane
Round 1: Perform the round 3 times
Sled or sprint or treadmill run for 30 sec
Bench press × 8
Chin-up × 8
Round 2: Perform the round 3 times
Sled or sprint or treadmill run for 30 sec
Dip × 8
Overhead press × 8
Round 3: Perform the round 3 times
Sled or sprint or treadmill run for 30 sec
MB slam × 10
DB curl × 10
Hurricane rules
Get a good 15-20 min warm-up.
Keep intensity as high as possible while still maintaining good form.
Select rest periods according to ability.
Attempt to use light to moderate weights in order to move as fast as possible.
Perform the hurricane a maximum of 2 times per week to avoid overtraining.
LANDOW SPEED
The next workout is a simple speed workout from one of the best performance coaches in our 
industry, Loren Landow. This 4-week speed progression can be performed 2 or 3 times per week. 
In the first week, perform 3 sets of all 4 drills, then add a set each week. By the time week 4 rolls 
around, you will be much faster and in great shape. This is one of those simple workouts that 
shows you don’t have to make things complicated to make things great. Execute this workout 
with intense and perfect execution, and you will be faster.
Sample speed workout: Use the warm-up from the agility chapter (page 176)
1. A skip 10 yd (9 m) × 3-6 (rest 60 sec between reps)
2. Wall run single exchange 3-6 × 5 per leg (rest 60 sec between sets)
3. 20-yard sprint from two-point start at 85%+ × 3-6 (rest 90-120 sec between reps)
4. Power skip 20 yd (18 m, distance emphasis) × 3-6 (rest 90-120 sec between reps)
DARRYN’S FOUR-DAY SPLIT
This workout (table 17.9) is from my colleague and, in my opinion, one of the greatest minds 
in muscle physiology, Dr. Darryn Willoughby. Darryn also practices what he researches, having 
competed in many bodybuilding shows. He competed in the super heavyweight division for 
standard bodybuilding and recently won his pro card in the Global Bodybuilding Organization.

251Table 17.9 Darryn’s Four-Day Split
MONDAY
Legs, shoulders, abs Sets Reps Tempo Rest
Deadlift 3 8-10 3,0,1,0 2-3 min
Barbell squat 3 8-10 3,0,1,0 2-3 min
Lunge 3 8/leg 3,0,1,0 1-2 min
Barbell seated military press 3 8-10 3,0,1,0 2-3 min
DB front raise 3 8-10 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
BP upright row 3 8-10 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
Hanging knee raise 4 10-15 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
TUESDAY
Chest, triceps, calves Sets Reps Tempo Rest
Barbell or DB bench press 3 8-10 3,0,1,0 2 min
Barbell or DB incline bench press 3 8-10 3,0,1,0 2 min
Cable fly 3 8-10 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
Cable triceps push-down 3 8-10 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
Close grip triceps press 3 8-10 1,0,1,0 1-2 min
Standing calf raise 4 15 3,0,1,0 1-2 min
WEDNESDAY: OFF
THURSDAY
Legs, shoulders, abs Sets Reps Tempo Rest
Leg press 4 12-15 3,0,1,0 2-3 min
Bulgarian squat 4 10/leg 3,0,1,0 2-3 min
Leg extension 4 12-15 3,0,1,0 1-2 min
Leg curl 4 12-15 3,0,1,0 1-2 min
DB seated press 4 12-15 3,0,1,0 2-3 min
DB lateral raise 4 12-15 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
Smith machine shrug 4 12-15 1,0,1,0 1-2 min
Crunch 4 10-15 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
FRIDAY
Back, biceps, lower back, calves Sets Reps Tempo Rest
Wide-grip pull-down 3 8-10 3,0,1,0 2 min
BP row 3 8-10 3,0,1,0 2 min
Single-am bent-over row 3 8-10 2,0,1,0 2 min.
Barbell curl 3 8-10 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
Incline (preacher) curl 3 8-10 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
45-degree back extension 4 10-15 2,0,1,0 1-2 min
Standing calf raise 4 15 3,0,1,0 1-2 min
SATURDAY AND SUNDAY: OFF
Darryn likes this workout because it incorporates moderate-intensity (higher-volume) days 
and higher-intensity (lower-volume) days. He feels that the variation this type of workout pro -
vides during the week is helpful in fully activating muscle fibers and is also appropriate recovery 
between training sessions. He also feels the time-under-tension strategy for the moderate-
intensity (higher-volume) training day is a great tool to concentrate on a muscle group while 
sparing extreme wear on the joints.

JC’s Total Body Transformation 252
Summary
Programming can be a daunting task for just about anyone, even personal trainers. I 
hope the ideas provided in this chapter simplify the process of programming so that 
creating a workout is doable, not impossible. As you can see from some of the best in 
the industry, and as I have stated throughout this book, the workouts and exercises 
we have presented can provide an infinite number of workouts, from very simple to 
more complex.
Remember that none of us who are really good at programming did it overnight. 
I have been programming for 45 years! I have practiced it, prescribed it, studied, and 
traveled all over the world learning from many professional trainers, from the Chinese 
Olympic coaches, to Russia’s elite coaches, to Brazil’s and South America’s top guns, and 
of course the incredible professionals here in the United States. Even with the benefit 
of such experience, I’m still learning and learning a lot! So, don’t get frustrated or feel 
like you don’t know anything or will never get it; you will get it. Just stay with it, read, 
share, and practice. Maybe one day, I’ll be reading your book and learning from you!

253Contributors
The following colleagues provided programs, advice, support, and their expertise to 
enhance the material in JC’s Total Body Transformation. I am grateful for their contribu-
tions and encouragement.
Former Mr. USA John DeFendis  (www.defendis.com; facebook.com/john.defendis; 
defendis@aol.com) generously let me include the concept he developed called the 
DeFendis rep in chapter 3.
These gifted trainers provided programs:
Bret Contreras,  His Legs and Hips 5: 
Bret’s Weights Workout, and Her 
Legs and Hips 2: Bret’s At-Home 
Workout, chapter 4; www.bretcontre -
ras.com; bretcontreras@hotmail.com
Cliff Edberg, MS, RD, Her Abs and 
Core 5: Heavy Abs, chapter 5, and 
Edberg Built: Men’s Professional 
Bodybuilding Workout, chapter 17; 
CEdberg@lifetimefitness.com
Cem Eren,  Her Legs and Hips 6: Cem’s 
Fitness Competition Workout, chap -
ter 4; www.Diamondglutes.com; 
Cemcondition83@gmail.com
Loren Landow , Landow Speed, chapter 
17; www.landowperformance.com; 
Lmlandow@gmail.comMartin Rooney , Hurricane Rooney, 
chapter 17; www.trainingforwar -
riors.com; mrooney@trainingfor -
warriors.com
Carla Sanchez , Sanchez Shape, chapter 
17; www.Performanceready.com; 
glamourjock@gmail.com
Dave Woynarowski, MD, Darryn’s 
Four-Day Split, chapter 17; www  
.darryn_willoughby@baylor.edu; 
www.baylor.edu/ chhs/index.
php?id=940465
These professionals lent their expertise to make chapter 16, Nutrition and Recovery, 
as comprehensive and accurate as possible:
Jose Antonio, PhD; www.theissn.org; 
exphys@aol.com
Cliff Edberg, MS, RD; CEdberg@life -
timefitness.comDouglas Kalman, PhD, RD; www.the -
issn.org; dkalman@nova.edu
Dave Woynarowski, MD;  www.thelon -
gevityedge.com; doc@drdaveshealth -
secrets.com

254About the Author
Juan Carlos “JC” Santana, MEd, CSCS,*D, 
has authored 17 books and manuals and pro-
duced over 70 DVDs. He has published more 
than 300 articles, many in peer-reviewed 
journals such as the NSCA’s Strength and 
Conditioning Journal. His texts have been used 
internationally in over 20 universities.
Santana is the founder and director of 
the Institute of Human Performance (IHP) 
in Boca Raton, Florida. For the last 17 years, 
IHP has been consistently recognized as one 
of the top training facilities in the world and 
the best core-training facility in the United 
States. His IHP certification system has cer -
tified over 10,000 trainers worldwide in over 
15 countries, including more than 200 Olympic coaches in China and South America. 
His IHP mentorship program has welcomed over 400 fitness professionals from over 
20 different countries.
Santana has been part of the strength and conditioning programs for several Florida 
Atlantic University sports teams for over two decades. He was responsible for the 
strength and conditioning programs for men’s basketball, men’s and women’s cross 
country and track and field, women’s volleyball, and men’s and women’s swimming.
Santana is a Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist with distinction 
(CSCS,*D) and a fellow (FNSCA) of the National Strength and Conditioning Associa -
tion (NSCA). He is also certified as a health fitness instructor by the American College 
of Sports Medicine. In addition, he is a certified senior coach and club coach course 
instructor with the U.S. weightlifting team and a USA Track and Field level 1 coach.
Santana has served two terms on the NSCA board of directors. For eight years, 
he was the sport-specific conditioning editor for the NSCA Journal . His professional 
responsibilities have included serving as NSCA ’s vice president, chairman of the NSCA 
Coaches Conference, a member of the NSCA Conference Committee, and NSCA state 
director for Florida. As a college adjunct professor, he has taught strength and con -
ditioning at Florida Atlantic University (FAU). An FAU graduate with bachelor’s and 
master’s degrees in exercise science, Santana is involved in several ongoing research 
studies with numerous universities and is working on his PhD in exercise physiology.
Founded in 2001, IHP provides an unparalleled training environment for elite ath -
letes, including Olympic athletes in a variety of sports; world-class tennis champions; 
NFL, NHL, and MLB players; world champion Brazilian jujitsu and mixed martial arts 
fighters; numerous NCAA Division I teams; and hundreds of nationally ranked teen 
hopefuls from a cross-section of sports. IHP also handles delicate spinal rehab cases 
as well as serving the local community gym.