Master	the	Art	of	Swimming

Steven	Shaw
Master	the	Art	of	Swimming
Raise	Your	Performance	with	the	Alexander
Technique


CONTENTS
Introduction:	In	Praise	of	Swimming
Steven’s	Story
1.	The	Shaw	Method
2.	Fun-da-mentals:	Core	Practices
3.	Breaststroke	With	Ease
4.	Better	Your	Backstroke
5.	Learning	to	Crawl	Again
6.	A	Shaw	Way	to	Fly...
Final	Word
Glossary
Index

IN	PRAISE	OF	SWIMMING
An	open	mind,	a	swimming	pool	or	stretch	of	calm	water	and	this	book
are	all	you	need	to	realize	your	untapped	potential	for	freedom	of
movement	with	the	Shaw	Method.	Prepare	to	embark	on	an	amazing
journey	of	self-discovery.	In	the	rhythmic	movements	of	swimming,	free
from	the	downward	pressure	of	gravity,	you	can	discover	the	ultimate
form	of	meditation.	Swimming	is	the	supreme	form	of	exercise	for	mind,
body	and	spirit	–	as	well	as	improving	flexibility	and	tone	it	will	also
boost	your	self-esteem	and	sense	of	well-being.	Whatever	challenges	you
face	in	life,	swimming	always	helps:	when	you	are	stressed	it	relaxes	you,
when	you	are	exhausted	it	revitalizes	you,	and	when	your	muscles	are	stiff
it	releases	them.	Forget	Prozac	–	the	remedy	is	in	H
2
0!
Exercise	fads	come	and	go,	but	swimming	always	remains	at	the	top	of
the	popularity	charts.	The	psychological	benefits	of	immersion,	rather
than	the	knowledge	that	swimming	is	good	for	joints	and	muscles,	keep
millions	of	people	switched	on	to	swimming.	It	is	an	ideal	antidote	to	our
pressured	lives,	offering	a	rare	opportunity	to	rejuvenate	the	body	while
allowing	the	mind	to	rest.
The	verb	‘to	swim’	is	defined	as	‘the	ability	to	propel	oneself	through
water’,	whereas	the	noun	‘swimming’	is	generally	defined	as	‘a
competitive	sport’.	The	competitive	perspective	is	so	pervasive	that	even
the	
Oxford	English	Dictionary
	describes	swimming	purely	in	terms	of
being	a	sport.	This	attitude	is	extremely	limiting.	As	long	as	you	gauge
your	performance	in	the	water	by	the	number	of	laps	you	swim	or
whether	you	arrive	at	the	end	of	the	pool	before	the	next	person,	there	is
little	chance	of	discovering	the	riches	water	has	to	offer.

	
It	is,	however,	important	to	acknowledge	that	a	competitive	outlook	has
been	vital	to	the	remarkable	evolution	of	swimming.	Without	the
motivation	to	go	faster,	human	beings	would	probably	still	swim	like
other	land-based	mammals,	using	what	is	essentially	a	form	of	walking.
Competition	has	led	us	to	develop	four	ingenious	ways	of	moving	through
the	water:	breaststroke,	backstroke,	front	crawl	and	butterfly.	Man’s
ability	to	swim	well	also	derives	from	certain	unique	physical
characteristics.	Only	human	babies,	born	with	subcutaneous	fat,	can	float
and	swim	from	birth.	Of	all	primates,	only	humans	have	a	descended
larynx,	allowing	us	to	easily	take	in	air	through	the	mouth	when
swimming.
What	differentiates	the	approach	outlined	here	from	others	is	that	it
draws	on	the	Alexander	Technique.	The	Technique’s	central	idea	is	that
the	relationship	between	head,	neck	and	back	determines	the	quality	of
the	body’s	overall	coordination.	When	the	neck	is	free	and	the	head
balances	lightly	at	the	top	of	the	spine	we	are	able	to	function	more
efficiently;	when	it	is	tense	and	the	vertebrae	are	compressed	our
functioning	is	adversely	affected.	My	years	of	experience	have	confirmed
that	the	head-neck-back	relationship	is	of	utmost	importance	and	that
improving	this	relationship	is	the	single	most	significant	factor	affecting
swimming	performance.
We	are	now	entering	a	new	phase	in	the	evolution	of	swimming.	This
book	will	help	you	transcend	the	competitive	mindset	and	recraft	each
stroke	to	promote	the	optimum	use	of	the	self.	This	approach	to
swimming	is	closer	to	a	martial	art	than	a	competitive	sport	–	winning	or
losing	are	mere	distractions	from	an	ongoing	journey	towards	self-
mastery.	Water	is	an	ideal	environment	for	self-development;	it	amplifies
psychophysical	patterns,	providing	the	opportunity	to	become	aware	of
how	thoughts	affect	quality	of	movement.	Swimming	is	unlike	any	other
physical	activity:	apart	from	needing	to	coordinate	the	whole	body	in	the
horizontal	plane,	you	also	have	to	be	in	tune	with	the	water.	If	you	try
hard	and	apply	too	much	effort	you	will	flounder;	swimming	gracefully	is
more	about	letting	go	and	going	with	the	flow	than	it	is	about	pushing

more	about	letting	go	and	going	with	the	flow	than	it	is	about	pushing
yourself.
To	the	evolved	or	enlightened	swimmer,	there	are	a	number	of	ways	of
measuring	one’s	performance.	Speed	is	just	one	indicator,	but	no	more
significant	than,	for	example,	the	distance	travelled	per	stroke	or	the
relative	energy	expended.	A	master	of	swimming	never	compromises	a
good	body	form	in	the	quest	for	speed	–	hunching	the	shoulders	in
breaststroke	reduces	drag	but	is	unacceptable	as	it	has	a	detrimental
effect	on	body	alignment.	This	is	not	to	say	that	swimming	in	a	more
mindful	way	reduces	speed;	on	the	contrary	with	the	Shaw	Method	most
people	are	able	to	swim	considerably	faster	and	further	than	they	ever
thought	possible.	This	new	approach	limits	the	energy	expended	on	non-
propulsive	movements,	gaining	greater	purchase	on	the	water	and	so
realizing	maximum	benefit	from	precious	time	in	the	water.
If	you	are	on	the	look	out	for	a	training	manual	that	provides	elaborate
tables	telling	you	how	far	and	fast	to	swim	and	how	much	rest	to	take
between	each	set,	look	elsewhere.	There	are	countless	‘get	fit’	swimming
books	and	websites	that	will	give	you	this	type	of	information.	If	you	are
looking	for	something	more	reflective	that	encourages	you	to	pause,
rethink	your	relationship	with	the	water	and	explore	each	stroke	in	depth,
read	on.	Instead	of	mindlessly	swimming	lap	after	lap,	you	will	learn	to
pay	attention	to	the	process	of	swimming	and	develop	the	quality	of	the
experience.	This	learning	goes	far	beyond	the	pool,	providing	you	with	a
powerful	new	model	with	which	to	approach	any	activity.
Taking	the	plunge	into	learning	the	art	of	swimming	may	seem	somewhat
daunting,	particularly	for	those	with	a	more	sedentary	lifestyle.	You	may
feel	self-conscious	about	your	size	and	the	prospect	of	being	seen	in
public	in	a	swimming	costume.	However,	having	decided	to	embark	on	a
fitness	programme	it	is	far	better	to	begin	in	the	pool	where	the	effects	of
buoyancy	significantly	reduce	the	risks	of	injuring	weight-bearing	joints.
More	regular	swimmers	may	feel	self	conscious	about	practising	new
strokes	or	performing	unusual	looking	practices.	Take	comfort	from	the
fact	only	those	swimmers	straining	their	necks	to	keep	their	faces	out	of
the	water	will	be	watching.	With	any	luck	your	progress	will	inspire	them
to	join	in!

to	join	in!

Steven’s	Story
My	earliest	memories	of	swimming	are	of	splashing	around	in	the	local
open-air	lido	where	I	spent	much	of	my	leisure	time.	The	pool	never
seemed	to	lose	its	magical	appeal.	During	the	summer	months,	the
anticipation	was	often	overwhelming.	I	have	vivid	memories	of	one
scorching	day,	standing	impatiently	in	what	was	surely	the	longest	queue
ever.	The	interminable	wait	added	to	my	sense	of	excitement	and	I	can
remember	my	heart	racing	when	my	nose	picked	up	the	sweet	scent	of
chlorine.	When	we	finally	arrived	at	the	turnstiles,	I	had	to	be	restrained
from	running	ahead.	I	always	wore	my	trunks	under	my	trousers	to	avoid
wasting	precious	time.
Until	the	age	of	eight	I	spent	my	time	at	the	children’s	pool,	a	large
semi-circular	construction	where	water	streamed	from	the	mouths	of	two
lion	statues.	The	pool	had	a	gradual,	beach-style	entrance	with	sloping
sides	–	great	fun	to	run	in	and	out	of	when	the	lifeguards	weren’t
watching!	We	picnicked	on	the	grassy	banks	surrounding	the	pool	and
after	the	compulsory	hour’s	wait	to	ensure	digestion	we	raced	back	to	the
pool	for	more	aquatic	fun.	The	lido	was	much	more	than	a	pool:	it	was	a
place	to	hang	out	with	friends	and	family.
I	was	a	clumsy	child	and	the	pool	was	one	of	the	few	places	I	felt	safe
to	explore	movement	without	injuring	myself.	I	spent	hours	inventing
pool	games.	My	favourite	was	‘The	Torpedo’.	The	torpedo	lay	face	down
in	the	water	and	the	launcher	got	hold	of	his	feet	and	pushed	him
forward;	whoever	got	the	farthest	was	the	winner.	During	my	experience
as	the	torpedo	I	discovered	that	by	tucking	in	my	chin	and	breathing	out
slowly	I	would	travel	further,	that	is	as	long	as	the	launcher	was	any	good.
Handstands	and	underwater	cartwheels	were	also	great	fun.
In	hindsight,	these	early	experiences	were	invaluable	for	cultivating	a
feeling	of	confidence	and	ease	in	the	water.	It	was	only	when	I	started
teaching	adults	that	I	began	to	appreciate	the	value	of	simply	exploring
the	water.

Peer	pressure	and	the	lure	of	deeper	water	led	me	to	the	conclusion
that	it	was	time	to	learn	to	swim	‘properly’,	so	I	enrolled	at	a	local
swimming	class.	The	teacher	was	from	the	old	school	of	teaching	and	if	a
child	held	back	he	would	be	forced	in.	The	experience	of	witnessing	these
scenes	made	a	strong	impression	on	me.	I	can	vividly	remember	the
atmosphere	of	fear	at	the	school	and	can	recall	thinking	that	there	must
be	a	better	way	to	teach.
Time	to	get	serious	about	swimming
I	graduated	from	the	local	swimming	school	to	the	Mermaids	and	Marlins
swimming	club,	and	started	to	train	and	compete.	The	club	had	some
international-level	swimmers	and	it	was	inspirational	to	train	alongside
them.	It	was	not	long	before	I	was	training	for	four	hours	a	day,	squeezed
in	before	and	after	school.	Our	coach	drove	us	hard,	an	approach	which
sometimes	verged	on	bullying.	One	one	occasion	he	caught	me	pulling	a
lane	rope	along	and	punished	me	with	a	painful	1,500	metres	of	butterfly,
which	put	me	off	the	stroke	for	years.
I	pushed	myself	to	the	limit,	naively	believing	his	axiom	that	‘Training
is	suffering;	after	suffering	comes	results.’	Yet	I	never	got	beyond	county
level.	Despite	being	fit	and	strong,	my	technique	let	me	down.
For	the	most	part,	my	training	consisted	of	swimming	lap	after	lap,
and	I	would	only	occasionally	get	feedback	from	my	coach.	During	these
rare	sessions	he	analysed	my	stroke	and	this	was	always	useful.	I	yearned
to	swim	with	more	finesse	instead	of	thoughtlessly	thrashing	up	and
down	the	pool.	I	read	numerous	technique	manuals,	but	although	these
were	interesting	they	did	not	provide	me	with	the	tools	to	fundamentally
change	my	way	of	swimming.
I	achieved	my	best	times	in	the	breaststroke	and	like	most	competitive
breaststrokers	I	cultivated	a	pattern	of	hunching	my	shoulders	to	achieve
maximum	streamlining.	Looking	back	at	photographs	of	myself	during
this	period,	it	is	clear	that	my	habit	of	rounding	my	shoulders	when	on
dry	land	was	shaped	during	this	period.	I	was	oblivious	to	the	link
between	the	way	I	used	my	body	in	and	out	of	the	water.
By	the	age	of	seventeen,	I	was	burnt	out.	Without	success	to	spur	me
on,	I	no	longer	enjoyed	training	and	to	cap	it	all	my	neck	and	upper	back
felt	sore.	The	feeling	of	freedom	of	movement	that	attracted	me	to
swimming	in	the	first	place	had	disappeared.	I	quit	swimming	and	vowed

swimming	in	the	first	place	had	disappeared.	I	quit	swimming	and	vowed
never	to	return.	Giving	up	was	a	tremendous	liberation:	instead	of
spending	hours	every	week	training	and	travelling	to	and	from	the	pool,	I
was	able	to	develop	a	life	beyond	swimming.
The	Alexander	Technique
I	became	interested	in	political	theory	and	went	to	study	Philosophy	and
Politics	at	Manchester	University,	in	England.	I	was	particularly
interested	in	exploring	the	connection	between	thought	and	action.
Like	many	students,	I	did	very	little	physical	activity,	and	my	poor
posture	combined	with	the	pressure	of	exams	caused	my	back	and	neck
to	deteriorate.	I	tried	massage,	osteopathy	and	acupuncture,	which
temporarily	alleviated	the	discomfort	but	did	not	bring	lasting	relief.	A
friend	suggested	that	I	try	the	Alexander	Technique	(AT),	a	system	of
postural	re-education.	He	explained	that	it	addresses	the	root	causes	of
habitual	patterns.	I	was	sceptical	but	my	friend	was	clearly	benefiting
from	it	–	he	moved	with	a	new	sense	of	poise	and	appeared	to	be	more	at
ease	with	himself.
Eventually	I	signed	up	for	a	series	of	weekly	private	lessons.	They
were	no	immediate	panacea.	The	lessons	were	challenging	and	it	was
several	months	before	I	noticed	any	changes.	We	explored	simple
activities	such	as	standing	and	walking.	The	teacher	demonstrated
Primary	Control
	–	a	dynamic	relationship	between	the	head,	neck	and
back,	which	is	at	the	core	of	the	Alexander	approach.	I	came	to	the
daunting	realization	that	most	of	the	time	I	was	completely	oblivious	to
the	way	I	moved	and	functioned.	However,	what	was	liberating	about
these	early	lessons	(in	contrast	to	my	swimming	training)	was	that	I
never	felt	criticized	or	judged.	My	teacher	simply	encouraged	me	to	direct
my	attention	away	from	trying	to	do	the	right	thing	and	instead	towards
working	on	eliminating	bad	habits.	It	was	the	cumulative	effect	of	letting
my	neck	be	free	so	that	my	back	lengthened	and	widened,	and	the	notion
of	taking	responsibility	for	my	own	condition,	which	inspired	me	to	train
further	in	the	Technique.
In	1987	I	began	a	three-year	Alexander	Technique	teacher-training
course	in	Tel	Aviv.	In	Israel	the	AT	is	a	widely	accepted	method	for	re-
educating	the	body,	and	is	a	part	of	basic	training	for	military	pilots.	The
head	of	training	at	the	school,	Zeev	Tadmore,	came	from	a	sporting	and
martial	arts	background.

A	central	element	of	AT	training	is	that	before	working	with	others
you	are	expected	to	employ	the	principles	of	the	AT	yourself.	The
psychophysical	state	in	which	I	arrived	at	the	school	was	not	a	good	one.
My	posture	was	still	poor,	and	my	shoulders	and	upper	back	constantly
ached.	My	teacher	was	always	positive	and	created	a	supportive	and
nurturing	environment.	He	encouraged	me	to	investigate	the	sources	of
my	poor	alignment,	which	included	swimming.
During	my	time	in	Israel	I	worked	as	a	lifeguard,	which	gave	me	the
opportunity	to	swim	again.	After	an	absence	of	five	years	it	was	good	to
reconnect	with	the	water;	however,	a	familiar	aching	sensation	in	my
neck	confirmed	that	my	poor	posture	and	what	the	AT	describes	as
‘misuse’	of	the	body	were	linked	to	my	years	of	competitive	training.	The
focus	in	those	years	had	been	purely	on	speed	with	little	regard	for	my
overall	well-being.
My	inability	to	notice	the	build-up	of	tension	in	my	body	when
swimming,	despite	being	an	AT	student,	was	particularly	distressing.	
This
lack	of	awareness	was	hard	to	comprehend,	but	my	teacher	explained
that	habitual	patterns	of	behaviour	normally	feel	right	and	to	change
them	frequently	feels	wrong.	For	me,	the	tension	was	so	familiar	that	it
felt	natural,	whereas	swimming	without	strain	felt	odd	and	even
incorrect.	As	soon	as	I	got	into	the	water	my	old,	habitual	ways	of
swimming	returned:	in	breaststroke	my	shoulders	ended	up	by	my	ears
and	despite	attempting	to	swim	slowly	and	mindfully,	I	couldn’t	stop
myself	from	racing	whenever	a	fast	swimmer	came	near	me.	I	began	to
realize	that	the	postural	patterns	I	had	developed	in	the	water	were
merely	symptoms	of	a	much	more	complex	problem	which	concerned	my
whole	approach	to	swimming.
Gradually,	as	my	body	awareness	developed,	I	began	to	move	more
easily	through	the	water.	It	was	still	difficult	to	get	into	the	pool	without	a
fixed	goal,	however,	such	as	completing	a	certain	number	of	lengths	in	a
given	time.	But	by	controlling	my	tendency	to	rush,	in	all	aspects	of	my
life	as	well	as	in	the	water,	I	was	able	to	alter	the	way	I	swam.	I	began	to
appreciate	that	water	offered	both	a	sense	of	stillness	and	a	unique
opportunity	to	explore	freedom	of	movement.
When	I	began	exploring	my	relationship	with	water,	I	was	surprised
by	the	variety	and	intensity	of	surfacing	memories.	Keeping	a	journal
covering	the	content	of	my	practice	sessions	and	related	thoughts	and

covering	the	content	of	my	practice	sessions	and	related	thoughts	and
feelings	helped	me	absorb	the	significance	of	this	process	and	provided	a
useful	record	of	my	journey.	I	now	encourage	my	pupils	to	keep	a	similar
record	whilst	the	experiences	are	still	fresh	in	their	mind,	which	many
find	similarly	helpful.
Working	with	others
Apart	from	improving	my	own	relationship	with	the	water	during	this
time,	my	job	as	a	lifeguard	gave	me	ample	opportunity	to	observe	others
swimming.	I	was	shocked	by	the	number	of	people	who	swam	with	their
heads	held	up	out	of	the	water,	and	from	my	new	Alexander	perspective
could	now	see	how	much	neck	strain	this	was	causing.	I	began	to	notice
those	who	swam	in	a	graceful,	almost	effortless	way,	allowing	the	head
and	neck	to	move	freely	in	and	out	of	the	water.	I	became	increasingly
aware	that	the	principal	elements	that	set	a	good	swimmer	apart	lay	in
the	relationship	between	the	head,	neck	and	back.	Poorer	swimmers
pulled	their	heads	back	and	fixed	their	neck	muscles.
A	job	at	a	holiday	resort	gave	me	a	chance	to	discover	more	about
people’s	early	experiences	of	swimming.	I	was	struck	by	the	number	of
adults	who	recalled	negative	incidents.	They	almost	always	reported	that
their	teachers,	like	mine,	had	encouraged	them	to	apply	more	effort	in
order	to	swim	better.	Together	with	my	then	wife	Limor,	also	an	AT
trainee,	I	began	to	explore	ways	of	using	hands-on	guidance	to	help	them
feel	more	comfortable	in	the	water.	Initially	I	worked	mainly	with	fearful
swimmers,	but	found	that	competent	swimmers	also	benefited	from	this
approach.
In	1992,	a	year	after	completing	the	AT	teacher	training,	I	returned	to
the	UK	and	began	teaching	the	Technique	in	London.	I	also	completed	a
couple	of	swimming	teacher	courses	at	the	local	pool.	I	enjoyed	the
courses	greatly,	but	was	very	surprised	that	you	were	not	required	to
swim	and	were	not	allowed	to	teach	from	within	the	water.
Through	conversations	with	my	AT	pupils	I	found	that	many	of	them
swam	with	their	faces	out	of	the	water	so	I	decided	to	offer	‘water
confidence’	lessons	and	within	a	relatively	short	time	I	was	teaching	a
range	of	abilities.	I	learned	a	great	deal	through	my	interaction	with	these
pupils.	I	could	see	that	the	combination	of	my	competitive	swimming
experience	and	the	Alexander	training	was	of	enormous	value.

In	1994,	a	pupil	who	was	to	have	a	major	impact	on	my	work	booked	a
series	of	swimming	lessons.	Armand	D’Angour	was	in	his	mid-30s	and
wanted	to	overcome	a	fear	of	water.	He	had	tried	to	learn	to	swim	several
times,	but	with	little	success.	He	had	taken	lessons	in	the	Alexander
Technique	and	was	intrigued	by	the	prospect	of	applying	AT	principles	to
swimming.	The	difference	between	his	lessons	with	me	and	all	his
previous	instruction	was	the	fact	that	I	was	successfully	able	to	redirect
his	attention	and	instead	of	fighting	the	water	he	learned	to	enjoy	it.
Armand	quickly	learnt	to	swim	with	confidence	and	ease.	He	was
delighted	with	his	progress	and	we	decided	to	write	a	book	together	to
inspire	others	to	learn	to	swim.
In	1996,	
The	Art	of	Swimming:	a	New	Direction	with	the	Alexander
Technique
	was	published	by	Ashgrove	Press,	offering	a	clear	alternative
to	the	traditional	model	of	swimming.	It	was	the	first	book	written	from
an	Alexander	Technique	standpoint	to	make	an	in-depth	philosophical
investigation	into	a	sporting	activity.	It	challenged	the	popular	belief	that
swimming	is	always	beneficial,	illustrating	how	a	defective	style	can	do
more	harm	than	good.	It	urged	people	to	stop	striving	to	swim	faster	and
further	and	start	swimming	in	a	more	mindful	way.	The	book	received	an
unexpected	level	of	media	attention	and	became	a	bestseller	in	its	field.
The	Shaw	Method
The	
Art	of	Swimming
	not	only	had	an	impact	on	swimmers	far	and	wide,
it	also	dramatically	affected	my	life.	Overnight,	the	demand	for	lessons
became	overwhelming.	I	wanted	to	establish	a	teacher-training
programme,	but	was	hesitant	to	define	my	way	of	teaching	as	a	method
because	I	feared	this	would	hinder	the	flexibility	and	intuitive	nature	of
the	teaching	process.	However,	without	a	clearly	defined	and	structured
teaching	model	the	approach	could	not	be	passed	on	to	other	teachers,
severely	limiting	its	potential	growth.	So,	after	much	deliberation,	I	began
to	formalize	the	teaching	as	the	Shaw	Method	of	Swimming.	Looking
back,	this	was	a	seminal	moment	in	the	development	of	the	work	and	had
a	very	positive	impact	on	both	my	teaching	and	swimming.
Although	I	had	been	endeavouring	to	apply	Alexander	Technique
principles	to	swimming,	and	had	discovered	new	ways	of	guiding	and
supporting	people	in	the	water,	the	work	was	still	in	its	infancy.	It	had	not
yet	been	formulated	as	a	comprehensive	teaching	method.
Using	a	camcorder,	I	investigated	my	own	swimming	style	to	find	out

Using	a	camcorder,	I	investigated	my	own	swimming	style	to	find	out
whether	I	was	moving	in	a	way	that	promoted	the	best	possible	use	of
myself.	I	remembered	that	Alexander	had	gone	through	a	similar	process
himself	with	the	use	of	mirrors.	Seeing	myself	swim	for	the	first	time	was
quite	an	alarming	and	humbling	experience.	My	head	was	much	higher
than	I	thought	it	ought	to	be	and	although	my	movement	looked	fluent,
my	arm	and	leg	actions	were	not	symmetrical.	I	concluded	that	my
swimming	style	required	a	complete	overhaul.
From	my	AT	experience	I	knew	that	to	try	and	eliminate	faults	whilst
performing	the	full	stroke	was	unlikely	to	be	successful,	as	the	stimulus	to
move	in	habitual	ways	would	just	be	too	strong.	I	reasoned	that	the	best
course	of	action	was	to	separate	out	the	core	elements	of	each	stroke	and
work	on	them	in	isolation	–	both	in	the	water	and	on	dry	land.	Hopefully
this	would	override	strongly	ingrained	patterns	and	offer	a	real	possibility
of	producing	a	new	way	of	moving.	The	approach	worked	and	proved	to
be	a	powerful	way	of	rebuilding	my	strokes;	it	also	produced	positive	side
effects,	altering	the	way	I	felt	and	moved	both	in	and	out	of	the	pool.
Having	found	a	way	of	fundamentally	changing	my	swimming	technique,
I	now	had	the	beginnings	of	a	new	model	with	which	to	teach	others.

	
Although	swimming	is	one	of	the	most	popular	forms	of
exercise,	most	people	do	not	swim	well	enough	to	really	benefit
from	the	time	they	spend	in	the	water,	and	many	have
developed	styles	that	strain	their	joints.	The	underlying	goals	of
speed	and	competition	at	the	heart	of	conventional	swimming
instruction	often	impede	the	acquisition	of	vital	skills.	Few	are
able	to	swim	continuously	for	20	minutes	–	which	is	generally
considered	the	minimum	time	to	gain	cardiovascular	benefit.
Learning	the	Shaw	Method
If	you	have	picked	up	this	book	you	are	probably	fed	up	with
thrashing	around	in	the	pool	or	bored	with	counting	laps.	Let
the	Shaw	Method	start	a	new	era	in	your	relationship	with
water.
This	chapter	explains	the	key	principles	of	the	Shaw	Method
of	Swimming	and	dispels	myths	and	fallacies.	
Chapter	2
	guides
you	though	a	series	of	practices	that	teach	the	core	elements	of
the	Method.	These	preliminary	practices	may	appear	too
pedestrian	for	more	accomplished	swimmers.	However,	the
basics	of	awareness,	direction	and	balance	are	at	the	heart	of	a
good	stroke	and	must	be	mastered	to	develop	the	repertoire	of
aquatic	skills	required	for	a	healthier	and	more	pleasurable	style
of	swimming.
Chapters	3–6
	guide	you	though	a	series	of	easy-to-follow,
progressive	practices	on	land	and	in	the	water,	which	teach	my
unique	formula	for	developing	the	four	strokes:	front	crawl,
breaststroke,	back	crawl	and	butterfly.	You	will	discover	that	a
non-propulsive	movement	precedes	every	propulsive
movement.	These	chapters	also	include	accounts	of	each
stroke’s	relative	health	benefits,	outlining	not	only	what	to	do
but,	just	as	importantly,	what	to	avoid.	It	is	beneficial	to	work
through	these	with	a	partner	as	well	as	by	yourself.
This	book	is	not	a	‘quick	fix’	to	your	aquatic	woes;	rather	it
points	the	way	towards	a	more	mindful	and	conscious
relationship	with	water.	Goals	such	as	improving	cardiovascular
fitness	must	be	temporarily	set	aside	until	you	have	established

relationship	with	water.	Goals	such	as	improving	cardiovascular
fitness	must	be	temporarily	set	aside	until	you	have	established
a	firm	foundation	for	your	swimming	strokes.	Thereafter	you
will	be	in	a	position	to	obtain	greater	health	and	fitness	benefits
from	your	time	in	the	water.
The	key	to	success	is	cultivating	a	positive,	open	approach	to
learning.	Your	level	of	skill	or	expertise	in	the	water	when	you
begin	this	journey	is	immaterial.	Free	yourself	from	the
pressure	of	trying	to	perform	the	practices	‘correctly’	and	use
them	to	start	exploring	the	unknown.	I	have	found	that	those
most	successful	at	mastering	the	art	of	swimming	posses	the
ability	to	stop,	listen	and	be	patient.
When	you	flick	through	this	book,	the	sheer	number	of
practices	may	
overwhelm	you.	Don’t	follow	them	mechanically	–
they	are	there	to	encourage	you	to	experiment	with	the	way
you	think	and	move,	heighten	your	awareness	and	inspire
creativity.	It	is	unnecessary	to	memorize	exact	sequences	or
the	finer	points	of	a	particular	practice;	a	deeper	understanding
will	come	with	time.	Initially,	it	is	important	to	grasp	the	main
purpose	of	a	practice	and	how	it	may	apply	to	you.
It	is	futile	to	be	overly	concerned	with	stroke	mechanics
before	you	feel	at	home	in	the	water.	Learn	to	trust	the	water
and	allow	it	to	support	you	instead	of	struggling	against	it.	This
will	completely	transform	the	experience	of	swimming.	This
may	sound	obvious,	yet	most	swimmers	find	it	hard	to	truly
relax	in	the	water.
Swimming	with	the	Alexander	Technique
The	Shaw	Method	is	a	creative	step-by-step	approach	that	has
helped	thousands	of	people	of	all	ages	and	abilities	transform
their	experience	of	swimming.	In	contrast	with	the	majority	of
teachers	who	adopt	a	competitive	perspective,	the	Shaw
Method	draws	its	inspiration	from	F.M	Alexander’s	powerful
technique	for	rediscovering	natural	balance	and	poise.	Brief
descriptions	of	Alexander’s	principles	follow.	Please	thoroughly
acquaint	yourself	with	them	as	they	are	used	throughout	this
book.

book.
Use
	–	A	term	to	describe	a	person’s	psychophysical	interaction
with	their	environment.	Swimming	with	good	use	involves
moving	through	the	water	in	a	way	that	promotes	good
alignment	with	minimal	physical	or	mental	strain.
Primary	Control
	–	For	Alexander	the	quality	of	the	head-neck-
back	relationship	was	the	single	most	important	factor	affecting
overall	use.	Paying	attention	to	form	and	allowing	the	head	to
lead	the	rest	of	the	body	is	the	best	way	to	resolve	specific
stroke	faults.
Giving	directions
	–	The	ability	to	project	a	series	of
constructive	thoughts	that	promote	lengthening	and	widening.
In	swimming	to	counter	the	tendency	of	pulling	the	arms
backwards	it	is	useful	to	direct	your	attention	to	holding	the
water	and	moving	the	torso	forward.
Kinaesthetic	awareness
	–	The	ability	to	sense	the	position,
orientation	and	movement	of	the	body.	Feedback	from	the
water	enhances	the	development	of	body	awareness.
End	Gaining
	–	Striving	for	results	without	attending	to
process.	Swimming	for	fitness	without	considering	technique
often	leads	to	strain	and	injury.
Inhibition
	–	Creating	the	space	for	choice	between	stimulus
and	reaction.	To	
counter	the	undesirable	habit	of	taking	a	big
breath	before	putting	the	face	in	the	water	it	is	necessary	to
inhibit	this	automatic	response	before	consciously	inhaling.
Faulty	sensory	appreciation
	–	Good	use	requires	accurate
kinaesthetic	awareness.	Force	of	habit	and	a	lack	of	conscious
control	undermine	this	ability	leading	to	faulty	sensory
appreciation.	If	you	are	accustomed	to	an	uneven	breaststroke
leg	action	a	symmetrical	leg	action	is	likely	to	feel	wrong.
Thinking	in	Activity
	–	Swimming	in	an	unthinking	way
reduces	the	ability	to	feel	and	respond	to	water,	a	mindful
approach	enables	you	to	become	more	responsive	to	the	effects
of	buoyancy	and	resistance	and	thereby	more	in	tune	with	the
water.
Non-doing
	–	The	conscious	ability	to	leave	oneself	alone	and
avoid	automatic	responses.	It	is	preferable	to	consciously	let	go

and	allow	the	water	to	support	you	as	opposed	to	trying	to	hold
yourself	up.
Startle	response
	–	An	automatic	response	to	an	unexpected,
sudden	stimulus,	our	head	reflexively	moves	back	and	down,
compressing	the	neck	and	stressing	the	rest	of	the	body.	While
the	startle	response	is	a	natural	reaction	to	fear,	it	is
inappropriate	in	the	water	and	has	a	detrimental	affect	on	the
ability	to	swim	comfortably.	Learning	to	free	the	neck	and
allowing	our	back	its	full	length	and	width	promotes	calmness
and	ease	in	the	water.
The	power	of	habit
I	am	often	taken	aback	by	some	people’s	unrealistic
expectations	of	the	learning	process.	Swimming	habits	develop
over	many	years	and	it	is	naive	to	expect	an	instant
transformation.	Tai	chi	masters	consider	that	it	takes	around
500	repetitions	to	learn	a	new	movement	and	5,000	to	re-
pattern	an	old	one.
Everyone	has	a	tendency	to	return	to	habitual	patterns	in	the
water.	The	sooner	you	learn	to	recognize	these	patterns,	the
quicker	you	can	start	the	process	of	changing	them.	Don’t	give
yourself	a	hard	time	when	you	revert	to	your	old	ways	and
don’t	expect	instant	results;	you	will	make	progress.
Because	our	neuromuscular	system	is	designed	to	work	in
concert	with	gravity	you	may	find	some	of	the	instructions
counterintuitive.	To	swim	effectively	you	really	have	to	use	your
brain;	following	your	instincts	and	doing	what	comes	naturally
is	unlikely	to	produce	good	results.
Over-breathing	is	one	of	the	most	common	and	unhelpful
aquatic	habits.	Most	people	unnecessarily	and	automatically
swallow	excessive	quantities	of	air	just	before	submerging	their
faces.	They	are	oblivious	to	this	pattern.	Do	you	do	this?	Can
you	choose	a	more	appropriate	course	of	action	and	inhale
passively?	
Unless	you	concentrate,	you	are	likely	to	slip	back
into	the	unconscious	pattern.
The	power	of	an	ingrained	habit	also	makes	it	more	difficult

The	power	of	an	ingrained	habit	also	makes	it	more	difficult
to	correct	stroke	faults	than	you	might	envisage.	Because	the
pattern	has	been	repeated	so	many	times,	it	feels	normal	and
comfortable.	Also,	the	root	cause	of	a	particular	pattern	may	be
far	from	obvious,	as	the	following	example	from	my	own
experience	indicates.
On	seeing	footage	of	my	front	crawl,	I	was	concerned	to	note
that	my	left	and	right	above-water	arm	actions	were	different.	I
could	see	that	my	left	hand	twisted	as	it	entered	the	water,
which	surprised	me	as	I	am	left-handed	and	expected	to	have
more	control	with	the	left	hand	than	the	right.	For	several
months,	I	focused	attention	on	my	left	arm	to	rectify	this,	but
disappointingly	the	action	remained	virtually	unchanged.	It	was
only	when	someone	pointed	out	that	my	left	arm	looked	more
effective	underwater	that	I	began	to	unravel	this	puzzle.	I
finally	grasped	the	fact	that	the	over-rotation	of	my	left	arm
resulted	from	a	less	than	effective	underwater	action	of	the
right	arm.	This	experience	taught	me	that	the	process	of
remedying	a	particular	stroke	fault	involves	three	essential
stages:	an	awareness	of	what	is	actually	happening,	an
accurate	appreciation	of	the	root	cause	of	the	difficulty,	and	a
clear	psychophysical	strategy	for	change.
Stillness	and	movement
Learning	the	art	of	swimming	requires	a	major	shift	in	your
approach	to	movement	in	water	and	on	land.	Stillness,	and
being	in	the	moment,	are	the	starting	points	for	all	conscious
movement.	To	perform	a	sequence	of	movements	accurately,	it
is	necessary	to	have	a	clear	idea	of	the	desired	objective.	Pause
and	think	before	launching	into	any	of	the	practices:	you	are
more	likely	to	achieve	positive	results	with	appropriate
preparation.	Many	people	find	it	extremely	useful	to	visualize	a
sequence	of	movements,	at	the	correct	pace,	before
proceeding.
When	pupils	perform	a	movement	incorrectly,	I	ask	them	to
describe	what	they	were	attempting	to	do.	This	often	reveals
that	they	were	either	performing	the	wrong	action	or	were

that	they	were	either	performing	the	wrong	action	or	were
simply	not	thinking	at	all.	Allowing	the	mind	to	wander,	as
Alexander	pointed	out,	is	a	major	impediment	to	developing
body	awareness.
Where	to	swim
It	is	important	to	select	a	suitable	environment	in	which	to
practise.	Ideally,	this	should	be	a	warm	pool	with	a	large	area
of	shallow	water.	Try	to	avoid	crowded,	deep	or	cold	pools.	A
teaching	pool	at	the	local	leisure	centre	may	be	a	good	option.
If	you	cannot	get	regular	access	to	an	ideal	environment,	make
the	best	of	
what	is	available.	The	great	thing	about	the
practices	in	this	book	is	that	they	do	not	require	a	large	area	of
water.	Working	within	a	smaller	area	can	be	an	advantage;	you
are	required	to	stop	more	often,	helping	you	to	pay	attention
moment	to	moment.
Pool	temperature	is	potentially	one	of	the	most	challenging
issues	for	anyone	learning	the	Shaw	Method.	An	average	pool	is
27–29°C	(80–84°F),	which	feels	comfortable	if	you	are
swimming	laps,	but	if	you	are	less	confident	or	working	through
some	of	the	less	energetic	sequences	in	this	book,	it	can	feel
very	chilly.	If	you	start	to	feel	too	cold,	include	some	more
vigorous	movements	or	shorten	the	session.	Alternatively,	you
could	wear	a	swimming	cap	as	you	lose	around	30	per	cent	of
your	body	heat	from	the	top	of	your	head;	if	you	are
particularly	susceptible	to	the	cold,	why	not	try	a	lightweight
thermal	swimming	top.
The	Art	of	Swimming	on	dry	land
For	many	of	the	water-based	practices,	there	are	equivalent
ones	to	do	on	dry	land.	These	are	an	integral	part	of	the	Shaw
Method	and	should	not	be	viewed	as	unnecessary	or
superfluous	to	the	process	of	swimming.	They	help	establish
and	reinforce	new	patterns	of	movement	in	preparation	for
swimming,	developing	your	kinaesthetic	awareness	and	sense
of	balance	and	control.	You	may	initially	find	it	hard	to	relate
the	land	practices	(which	for	the	most	part	are	performed

the	land	practices	(which	for	the	most	part	are	performed
upright)	to	swimming	movements,	but	with	regular	repetition
the	link	will	become	clearer.
Many	pupils	are	surprised	to	find	that	seemingly	complex
movements	are	more	easily	absorbed	and	integrated	into	their
swimming	through	regular	land	work.	Some	people	feel	self-
conscious	about	performing	swimming	movements	out	of	the
water.	If	your	friends	or	family	think	you	have	a	screw	loose,
tell	them	it	is	a	new	martial	art!	Spend	just	a	few	minutes	a	day
and	it	will	not	be	long	before	you	start	reaping	the	benefits.
Our	swimming	habits	can	be	so	strong	that	it	is	often	easier
to	change	the	tone	and	quality	of	the	movements	simply	by
stepping	out	of	the	water.	The	effects	of	buoyancy	and
resistance	obviously	make	working	on	land	a	very	different
experience	to	working	in	water.	However,	on	land	you	can
develop	the	desired	sequences	of	movements	and	repeat	them
often	enough	for	them	to	feel	familiar.
Practice	sessions
Initially,	try	to	spend	20–30	minutes	on	each	session.	When
you	are	more	experienced,	you	will	be	able	to	centre	your
attention	for	longer	periods.	Work	on	
no	more	than	four	new
practices	in	any	one	session.	As	discussed	earlier,	even	the
most	elementary	practices	take	a	while	to	master,	and	until	the
new	pattern	of	movement	is	firmly	established	the	old,	habitual
one	is	likely	to	creep	back.	Avoid	the	temptation	to	swim	the
full	stroke	during	the	early	stages,	as	this	is	likely	to	reinforce
old	patterns	and	leave	you	confused.
Working	with	a	partner
Compared	to	other	health	and	fitness	pursuits,	swimming	can
feel	quite	solitary.	For	some	this	provides	the	privacy	that	they
lack	in	other	parts	of	their	lives;	others	may	welcome	the
opportunity	to	share	the	experience.
In	the	absence	of	a	Shaw	Method	teacher,	partner	work	is
excellent	for	developing	awareness,	with	a	great	deal	to	be

In	the	absence	of	a	Shaw	Method	teacher,	partner	work	is
excellent	for	developing	awareness,	with	a	great	deal	to	be
learned	through	mutual	observation	and	feedback.	You	may	be
surprised	by	how	quickly	your	observation	skills	grow.	Be
sensitive	towards	your	partner	and	always	give	constructive
feedback	without	overly	focusing	on	what	you	think	he	or	she	is
doing	wrong.
Myths	about	swimming	and	fitness
It	is	not	necessarily	the	case	that	practice	makes	perfect	–	it
can	make	things	worse.	Many	regular	swimmers	rehearse	the
same	mistakes;	bad	habits	become	more	ingrained	and	harder
to	unlearn.	It	is	imperative	to	practise	in	a	constructive	way	and
think	about	the	quality	of	movement.
Believing	that	if	something	does	not	work	at	first	you	should
try	harder	is	often	a	formula	for	failure	rather	than	success.	It	is
more	productive	to	approach	swimming	with	a	spirit	of
exploration.
You	do	not	need	to	wear	yourself	out	in	order	to	have	a
worthwhile	workout.	A	healthy	approach	to	fitness	requires
good	body	alignment	and	a	good	technique.	Many	people
underestimate	the	importance	of	this	and	think	they	can
improve	their	swimming	by	just	getting	fitter.	What	usually
happens	is	that	they	get	more	efficient	at	injuring	themselves!
Put	aerobic	fitness	objectives	to	one	side	until	you	have
established	a	healthy	way	of	swimming.
Some	people	are	under	the	impression	that	they	do	not	need
to	think	about	the	way	they	swim.	They	use	swimming	as	a	way
of	switching	off	and	let	their	minds	wander.	However,	if	you	do
not	pay	attention	to	the	way	you	are	swimming	you	are	not
only	more	likely	to	injure	yourself,	but	your	mind	is	more	likely
to	drift	to	things	that	bother	you.	Paying	attention	to	what	you
are	doing	is	a	better	way	of	switching	off,	as	it	clears	the	mind
of	its	usual	chatter.

Back	to	basics
The	title	of	this	chapter,	‘Fun-da-mentals’,	emphasizes	the	fact
that	it	is	more	fun	to	be	imaginative	and	mindful	in	the	water
than	to	switch	off	and	swim	on	automatic	pilot.	This	section
guides	you	through	a	series	of	foundation	practices	that	will
help	you	to	explore	and	understand	the	physics	of	swimming,
particularly	the	effects	of	buoyancy	and	resistance.	If	you	are
an	accomplished	swimmer,	do	not	think	that	you	can	skip	this
section.	Whatever	your	ability,	you	have	to	go	‘back	to	basics’.
In	order	to	develop	a	way	of	swimming	that	promotes	the	best
possible	‘use’	of	the	body,	as	the	Alexander	Technique	describes
it,	you	must	have	a	wide	repertoire	of	skills.	Although	many	of
these	skills	can	be	cultivated	during	the	process	of	re-learning
the	four	strokes,	they	are	more	effectively	assimilated	without
the	distraction	of	trying	to	get	from	one	end	of	the	pool	to	the
other.
Here	is	an	opportunity	to	develop	a	new	relationship	with	the
water.	The	practices	in	this	chapter	enhance	awareness	of	the
body,	poise	and	balance,	enabling	you	to	stop	struggling
against	the	water	and	start	working	with	it.	They	not	only	offer
a	solid	base	for	swimming	more	effectively	but	are	also
beneficial	in	themselves,	improving	overall	poise	and	balance	on
dry	land.
Buoyancy
On	land,	gravitational	force	exerts	a	downward	pressure	on	our
bodies,	which	causes	compression	of	weight-bearing	joints
including	the	spine,	ankles,	knees	and	hips.	On	entering	the
water,	we	are	instantly	liberated	from	these	downward
pressures	because	water	counteracts	the	effect	of	gravity.
When	the	body	is	submerged,	the	effects	of	buoyancy	create
more	space	for	the	joints	to	move,	so	instead	of	joints	being
wedged	together	they	gently	float	apart.	When	submerged	to
chest	level,	the	upward	pressure	of	the	water	effectively
reduces	body	weight	by	90	per	cent,	allowing	movement	with

reduces	body	weight	by	90	per	cent,	allowing	movement	with
minimal	strain	on	the	joints	and	ligaments.	Leonardo	Da	Vinci
wrote	that	swimming	is	the	closest	Man	will	ever	get	to	the
sensation	of	flying.
The	capacity	of	an	object	to	float	is	determined	by	its
relative	density	or	its	weight	and	the	amount	of	water	it
displaces.	If	the	amount	of	water	displaced	weighs	more	than
the	object,	the	object	will	float;	if	the	water	weighs	less	than	it,
the	object	will	sink.	In	other	words,	for	an	object	to	sink,	the
force	of	gravity	must	be	greater	than	that	of	the	upthrust
produced	by	the	water.
The	average	density	of	the	human	body	is	a	little	less	than
that	of	fresh	water,	which	means	that	in	a	typical	swimming
pool	most	people	float	naturally.
In	the	sea	or	in	a	floatation	tank,	where	the	water	has	a
much	greater	density,	the	body	floats	higher	in	the	water.
Our	ability	to	float	is	also	influenced	by	body	type:	a	lean,
muscular	person	will	usually	find	it	more	difficult	to	float	than
someone	who	is	more	rounded.	The	muscle	mass	to	body	fat
ratio	is	the	main	reason	why	older	people	find	it	easier	to	float.
Over	the	age	of	forty,	most	people	tend	to	lose	muscle	tone	and
gain	body	
fat,	which	is	why	people	who	tended	to	sink	in	their
youth	often	discover	that	it	is	much	easier	to	float	when	they
reach	middle	age.	Another	factor	that	significantly	affects
buoyancy	is	muscular	tension.	This	is	particularly	apparent	in
apprehensive	swimmers,	who	tend	to	swim	with	contracted
muscles.	By	developing	the	ability	to	release	and	lengthen,
even	those	with	a	higher	propensity	to	sink	can	discover	how	to
optimize	the	effects	of	buoyancy	and	become	accomplished
swimmers.
Balance	and	stability
One	of	the	hallmarks	of	an	efficient	swimmer	is	the	ability	to
achieve	a	horizontal	body	position.	Although	most	people	can
float,	few	can	do	so	horizontally.	The	centre	of	buoyancy	is
located	in	the	upper	torso,	due	to	the	concentration	of	air	in	the

located	in	the	upper	torso,	due	to	the	concentration	of	air	in	the
lungs,	whereas	the	centre	of	mass	is	in	the	relatively	heavy	hip
area.	The	natural	tendency	of	the	upper	body	to	float	and	the
lower	body	to	sink	makes	the	finding	of	a	relatively	flat	position
in	the	water	far	from	straightforward.	It	helps	to	‘let	go’	and
allow	the	water	to	support	you;	however,	unless	you	are
extremely	buoyant,	your	legs	will	still	tend	to	drag	you	down.
The	gliding	practices	in	this	chapter	will	teach	you	how	to
achieve	a	horizontal	position	by	fine-tuning	the	alignment	of	the
head	and	the	direction	of	the	limbs.
Although	the	ability	to	float	in	a	relatively	static	situation	is
an	important	skill,	maintaining	balance	in	a	more	dynamic
situation,	when	arms	and	legs	are	producing	propulsion,	is	even
more	critical.	Efficient	swimmers	constantly	adjust	their	balance
to	maintain	stability.	In	the	crawl,	for	example,	the	left	arm
counterbalances	the	action	of	the	right	leg.
The	relative	weight	of	the	head	in	relation	to	the	rest	of	the
body	means	that	its	position	is	vital.	If	you	lie	horizontally	in
the	water	with	your	face	submerged,	you	can	immediately
detect	how	ostensibly	minute	sideways	movements	of	the	head
influence	the	rest	of	the	body.	In	water,	where	the	head	acts	as
a	rudder	leading	the	way,	the	significance	of	a	good	head-neck-
back	relationship	is	amplified.	An	awareness	of	this	not	only
improves	poise	when	swimming,	but	can	also	promote	a	greater
understanding	of	the	profound	effect	that	the	carriage	of	the
head	has	on	everyday	life.	It	is	useful	to	explore	this
phenomenon,	as	by	raising	awareness	of	your	head-neck-back
relationship	on	dry	land,	you	will	find	it	easier	to	maintain
primary	control	in	the	water.
Resistance
Another	factor	that	differentiates	movement	in	water	and	on
land	relates	to	the	effects	of	resistance	or,	more	accurately,
hydrostatic	pressure,	which	is	around	a	thousand	times	greater
in	water	than	in	air.	This	pressure,	apart	from	slowing	us	down,
gives	the	nervous	system	useful	feedback	and	is	one	of	the
reasons	why	hydrotherapy	is	so	effective	in	the	treatment	of
neurological	conditions.	The	late	Christopher	Reeve,	who

neurological	conditions.	The	late	Christopher	Reeve,	who
became	quadriplegic	following	a	serious	riding	accident,
countered	commonly	held	beliefs	about	his	condition	when	he
discovered	that	he	could	partially	move	his	legs	in	water.
Hydrostatic	pressure	increases	with	the	
depth	of	the	water.
Gently	exhale	and	allow	your	body	to	sink,	and	you	will	notice
an	increase	in	the	pressure	on	your	ears.	Place	your	hand	just
beneath	the	surface	of	the	water	and	swish	it	back	and	forth:
see	how	easy	it	is	to	move	your	hand.	Now	reach	deeper	and
perform	the	same	action:	you	will	observe	that	it	takes
significantly	more	effort	to	produce	the	same	movement.
Hydrostatic	pressure	not	only	affects	the	functioning	of	our
nervous	system	and	limbs,	but	also	the	functioning	of	our
internal	organs,	in	particular	the	kidneys.	Breathing	while
submersed	in	shoulder-deep	water	requires	more	effort	than
breathing	on	land,	because	the	pressure	of	the	water	resists
expansion	of	the	chest.
Efficient	swimming
The	challenges	faced	by	anyone	wishing	to	master	the	art	of
swimming	are	to	utilize	the	resistance	of	water	in	order	to
achieve	maximum	power	without	undue	strain,	and	to	become
streamlined	without	compromising	‘use’.	This	section	points	the
way	to	meeting	these	challenges	effectively	by	applying	some
general	principles;	stroke-specific	guidance	will	be	explored
later.
Most	people’s	approach	to	swimming	is	automatic;	they	have
little	appreciation	of	how	to	maximize	benefit	from	energy
expended.	When	they	feel	like	going	faster,	they	simply	move
their	arms	and	legs	faster	and	apply	more	effort	to	the	whole
stroke.	This	is	counterproductive,	as	it	not	only	produces	strain
and	fatigue	but	also	creates	turbulence	and	increases
resistance.	Instead	of	conserving	their	energy	on	the	non-
propulsive	parts	of	the	stroke,	they	apply	maximum	force
throughout.
The	realization	that	a	non-propulsive	movement	precedes
each	propulsive	movement	can	completely	transform	their

each	propulsive	movement	can	completely	transform	their
experience.	Increased	sensitivity	and	control	in	the	non-
propulsive	phases	enable	a	swimmer	to	find	the	optimum	limb
position	before	applying	force,	resulting	in	improved	purchase,
economy	of	energy	and	increased	flow.
Alexander’s	notion	of	‘good	use’	provides	us	with	a	very
effective	barometer	for	assessing	stroke	mechanics.	Ask
yourself	whether	you	are	lengthening	and	widening	your	back
or	narrowing	and	shortening	it.	If	the	former	is	the	case,	this	is
worth	cultivating;	if	the	opposite	is	true,	it	is	time	to	change.
This	contrasts	greatly	with	a	competitive	approach,	where
speed	is	the	goal	and	swimmers	are	encouraged	to	be	as
streamlined	as	possible	with	little	regard	for	what	constitutes
good	overall	use.	In	the	Shaw	Method,	the	mark	of	a	truly
efficient	swimmer	is	characterized	by	the	ability	to	maximize
distance	per	stroke	in	a	way	that	promotes	the	best	possible
use.
Breathing	with	ease
The	ability	to	breathe	with	ease	is	another	major	challenge	for
anyone	wishing	to	master	the	art	of	swimming.	An
understanding	of	the	principles	of	aquatic	breathing	will	help
swimmers	of	all	abilities:	confident	swimmers	learn	to	negotiate
the	transition	between	water	and	air	without	straining	their
necks,	and	less	accomplished	swimmers	learn	to	approach	the
breathing	process	with	less	anxiety.
You	will	not	progress	with	the	Shaw	Method	unless	you	are
able	to	immerse	your	face	and	breathe	out	calmly;	the	quality
of	the	out-breath	significantly	affects	the	ability	to	breathe	in
and	vice	versa.	Anxiety	about	taking	in	water	makes	many
people	delay	inhalation	for	as	long	as	possible,	which	only
exacerbates	the	problem.	Starved	of	oxygen,	they	feel
compelled	to	inhale	forcefully,	which	leads	to	the	unpleasant
sensations	of	either	swallowing	or	sniffing	water	along	with	air.
Avoid	getting	to	the	point	of	having	to	take	a	breath:	it	is
better	to	breathe	out	gently	or	inhale	more	frequently.	Efficient
swimmers	time	their	inhalations	through	choice	rather	than

swimmers	time	their	inhalations	through	choice	rather	than
necessity.	Some	good	advice,	which	is	drawn	directly	from	the
Alexander	Technique,	is	to	pay	attention	to	the	out-breath	and
allow	the	in-breath	to	happen	by	itself.	The	following	points	1–
7,	supported	by	land-based	practices	and	observation,	will
prepare	you	for	a	more	comfortable	and	controlled	experience
of	breathing	in	the	water.
1.	Breathing	and	primary	control
More	than	a	century	ago	Alexander	observed	that	the
relationship	between	the	head,	neck	and	back	profoundly
affects	the	respiratory	system,	and	that	whenever	this
relationship	is	out	of	balance,	breathing	is	disturbed.	He
concluded	that	working	on	one’s	poise	is	more	likely	to	have	a
positive	effect	than	doing	breathing	exercises.	This	principle
applies	equally	to	swimming.	The	following	practice	illustrates
how	poor	alignment	has	a	detrimental	effect	on	the	quality	of
exhalation,	underlining	why	swimming	with	the	head	pulled
back	reduces	one’s	ability	to	breathe	with	ease.
•	Sit	forward	on	a	stable	chair	with	both	feet	firmly	on	the	floor.
Rock	forward	from	the	hips,	maintaining	the	length	of	the
neck	and	back,	until	your	upper	body	is	at	45°	with	the	eyes
looking	forward	and	down	(1a).
•	Gently	say	‘Aah’	and	see	how	long	you	can	comfortably
sustain	this	sound.
•	Now,	without	altering	your	position,	take	a	breath	in	and	pull
the	head	back	so	your	eyes	look	ahead.	Say	‘Aah’	again,	and
note	any	changes	in	the	duration	or	quality	of	the	sound	(1b,
see	overleaf).	Most	people	experience	a	deterioration	in	tone,
because	their	breathing	apparatus	is	strained.

2.	Oral	inhalation
Inhalation	through	the	nose	is	all	right	when	breathing	on	land,
but	inappropriate	when	swimming.	When	you	raise	your	face
after	being	submerged,	the	nostrils	remain	moist	and	so	if	you
breathe	in	through	your	nose,	water	is	likely	to	get	drawn	up
the	nasal	passage.	This	unpleasant	experience	often	leads	to
apprehension	about	submerging	the	face.
•	Before	you	practise	breathing	when	in	the	pool,	familiarize
yourself	with	oral	inhalation	out	of	the	water.
•	While	breathing	through	the	mouth,	explore	activities	such	as
sitting	and	standing,	or	walking.
3.	Passive	inhalation
The	first	and	most	important	rule	of	breathing	with	ease	is	to
never	take	a	breath
!	Be	careful	not	to	misinterpret	this
statement.	I	do	not	advocate	breath-holding,	but	propose	that
passive	inhalation	is	all	that	is	required	to	swim	efficiently.
Excessive	inhalation	is	unnecessary	and	can	be	harmful,	leading
to	hyperventilation	and	even	panic.	This	deeply	ingrained
tendency	is	widespread.	Observe	swimmers	of	all	levels	and	you

will	see	the	vast	majority	gulping	in	large	quantities	of	air	in
preparation	for	launching	off.	They	behave	as	if	they	were
about	to	travel	a	vast	distance	under	the	water	or	take	their
last	breath.
4.	Perils	of	excessive	exhalation
Just	as	holding	the	breath	is	inadvisable,	so	too	is	the	opposite
pattern	of	explosively	breathing	out.	Emptying	your	lungs
completely	before	breathing	in	is	not	only	a	recipe	for	anxiety
but	also	reduces	buoyancy.	
Trickle	breathing	–
	exhaling
gradually	in	the	water	–	is	a	more	positive	alternative.	Initially
you	may	find	it	helpful	to	vocalize	while	breathing	out.
•	Explore	emptying	your	lungs	forcefully	and	notice	how	this
leads	to	gasping.
•	Now	breathe	out	in	a	gentler	manner	and	note	how	the
resulting	inhalation	is	calmer.
•	Remember	to	avoid	excessive	or	premature	exhalations!
5.	The	oral	and	nasal	seal
The	sight	of	people	holding	their	nose	and	breath	as	they
prepare	to	put	their	face	in	the	
water	is	all	too	familiar.	Many
falsely	believe	that	an	open	nose	and	mouth	will	inevitably	lead
to	water	entering	the	lungs.	In	fact,	when	the	face	is	immersed,
the	pressure	inside	the	lungs	automatically	equalizes	with	that
of	the	water,	producing	a	seal	that	prevents	water	passing	the
larynx.	As	long	as	you	do	not	inhale,	you	can	relax	the	nose	and
leave	the	mouth	open	without	drawing	in	water.	Knowledge	of
these	oral	and	nasal	seals	can	be	extremely	liberating	for	those
keen	to	relax	their	breathing.	The	following	practice,	using	a
basin	or	bowl	of	tepid	water,	demonstrates	this	phenomenon.
•	Open	your	mouth	and	gently	breathe	in	through	it.
•	Maintaining	an	open	mouth,	relax	the	jaw	and	tongue,	and
immerse	the	face.
•	Remain	in	this	position	for	around	ten	seconds,	without

•	Remain	in	this	position	for	around	ten	seconds,	without
breathing.
•	Enjoy	the	sensation	of	water	being	inside	the	mouth	and
nostrils	without	flooding	the	lungs.
6.	Breathing	against	resistance
Many	vastly	underestimate	the	length	of	time	they	can
comfortably	exhale	into	the	water.	Almost	as	soon	as	they	start
breathing	out,	they	feel	the	air	in	their	lungs	has	been
expended.	In	reality,	water	is	much	denser	than	air	and	a
breath	actually	lasts	significantly	longer.	Even	if	you	play	a	wind
instrument,	you	would	struggle	to	empty	your	lungs	in	a	few
seconds	under	water.
•	To	simulate	the	effects	of	water	pressure	on	breathing,	place
your	palm	over	your	mouth	and	breathe	out	into	it.	Notice
how	long	you	are	able	to	maintain	the	out-breath.
•	Now	repeat	the	same	action	with	the	face	unobstructed,	and
notice	how	much	more	quickly	the	breath	is	expelled.
7.	Facial	tension	and	breath	control
On	one	of	your	field	trips	to	the	local	pool,	observe	people’s
facial	expressions.	You	may	be	surprised	to	see	many	people
grimace	just	before	putting	their	faces	in	the	water.	If	you	were
to	watch	them	beneath	the	surface,	you	would	see	that	many
maintain	this	facial	tension	whilst	submerged.	Apart	from	not
being	very	flattering,	this	significantly	impedes	effective	breath
control.	The	link	between	respiration	and	facial	expression	is
highlighted	in	the	following	practice.
•	Screw	up	your	face	and	attempt	to	say	‘Aah’	for	a	few
seconds.	Notice	the	tone	and	the	quality	of	the	out-breath.
•	Now	contrast	this	with	a	relaxed	facial	expression.
•	Obviously,	almost	everyone	finds	it	easier	to	exhale	when	the
face	is	relaxed.

Steps	in	the	water
You	are	now	ready	to	explore	the	aquatic	environment	and	start
applying	control	to	your	movements.	The	following	practices	will
help	you	to	release	tight	muscles,	achieve	balance	and	stability,
breathe	with	ease,	generally	feel	more	at	home	in	the	water
and,	most	importantly,	to	have	fun	using	your	brain!
The	opening	stance	for	all	pool-based	practices,	unless
otherwise	stated,	is	as	follows.	Stand	in	chest-deep	water	with
your	feet	hip-width	apart	and	your	weight	evenly	distributed.
Keep	your	shoulders	relaxed,	with	your	arms	hanging	by	your
sides.	Look	straight	ahead	without	fixing	the	gaze	(pictured
right).
When	doing	the	practices,	soften	your	joints,	allowing	them
to	be	movable,	and	experiment	with	breathing	through	the
mouth.	For	any	backward	or	sideways	practices,	look	around	to
ensure	that	there	is	a	clear	pathway.
1.	Weightless	walking
Because	walking	is	such	a	familiar,	everyday	activity,	most
people	rarely	pay	much	attention	to	it.	It	is	only	when	injured,
or	trying	on	a	new	pair	of	shoes,	that	they	consider	how	they
walk.	In	regular	walking,	the	arms	naturally	swing	alternately	to
the	legs;	this	cross-pattern	action	provides	balance	and
stability.	In	water,	the	effects	of	resistance	and	buoyancy
change	the	walking	experience.	The	arms	do	not	swing
naturally;	many	hold	them	stiffly	or	move	right	leg	and	right
arm	together.	In	water	it	is	not	necessary	to	actively	lift	the
foot:	simply	release	the	knee	and	allow	it	to	float	upwards,	then
actively	put	the	foot	down.	Walking	in	water	is	an	ideal	way	to
work	on	balance	and	to	acclimatize	to	the	water,	and	because
of	the	effects	of	resistance,	it	requires	more	energy	expenditure
so	you	can	use	the	practice	to	burn	calories.	It	is	also	beneficial
for	those	with	joint	pain	who	may	experience	difficulty	walking
on	dry	land,	as	a	means	of	re-establishing	a	normal	walking
pattern.

	
STEPS	IN	THE	WATER
	
Name	of	Practice
Objectives
1	Weightless
walking
Acclimatizing	to	being	in	water.	Working
with	the	effects	of	buoyancy	and
resistance	to	achieve	stability.
2	Retro	walking
Learning	to	ground	yourself	and	connect
to	your	back.	An	antidote	to	moving
forward	and	collapsing.
3	The	bellows
Finding	a	streamlined	path	through	the
water.	Learning	to	use	buoyancy	to
widen	and	lengthen	the	back.
Coordinating	breathing	with	arm
movement.
4	The	lunge
Preparing	to	move	from	the	vertical	to
the	horizontal	plane.	Establishing	good
body	alignment,	connecting	the	arms
with	the	back.
5	Facing	the	water
Understanding	how	our	breathing
apparatus	is	influenced	by	facial	tension.
6	Lunging	with	the
face	submerged
Combining	balance	with	breath	control.
Remember	to	avoid	excessive	or
premature	exhalations.
7	The	glide
Achieving	a	stable	position	in	the	water.
Regaining	the	feet	in	a	way	that
strengthens,	rather	than	strains,	the
neck	and	back.
8	Floating	on	the
back
Learning	to	let	go	while	floating	on	the
back.	Lengthening	and	widening,	and
regaining	the	feet	with	poise	and	control.
Developing	the	ability	to	rotate	from

9	Rotation
Developing	the	ability	to	rotate	from
back	to	front,	which	also	aids	oral	and
nasal	breath	control.
10	The	wave
Mobilizing	the	whole	body.	Leading	down
with	the	head	against	the	effects	of
buoyancy	and	experiencing	upthrust;
exploring	different	depths.
	
•	Take	up	the	opening	stance.	The	water’s	buoyancy	will	help
you	to	stand	tall.	Raise	the	right	leg	by	shifting	your	weight
on	to	the	left	leg;	ensure	that	the	knee	does	not	go	too	high
as	this	may	cause	a	loss	of	balance.
•	Maintaining	the	position	of	the	head,	make	a	small	step
forward	with	the	left	leg,	and	simultaneously	move	the	right
arm	a	few	inches	forward	to	counterbalance	the	leg.
•	Actively	press	the	left	foot	down	so	that	both	feet	are	flat	on
the	floor.	The	movement	resembles	a	march,	with	the
emphasis	on	the	downward	action	of	the	foot.	Maintain	an
upright	stance	as	the	foot	presses	down.
•	Pause	for	3–4	seconds,	and	become	aware	of	your	balance
and	the	relationship	between	your	head,	neck	and	back	before
taking	a	second	step.
•	Alternate	the	arms	and	legs,	ensuring	that	the	left	leg	moves
forward	and	down	as	the	right	arm	extends	to	counterbalance
it	(1a).
•	Once	you	are	comfortable	with	the	timing,	eliminate	the	pause
and	move	continually	(1b).	You	can	also	explore	variations	in
pace,	and	explore	deeper	water.	Walking	more	slowly
encourages	you	to	focus	on	balance	and	utilizes	postural
muscles.	Speed	and	depth	increase	resistance,	requiring	more
energy	expenditure	and	resulting	in	more	of	a	fitness	workout.

Remember
	Lead	with	the	legs	and	let	the	arms	follow;	take
small	steps	leading	with	the	toe;	place	the	heel	down	first.	Keep
the	heel	of	the	back	foot	down	(feel	the	hamstring	and	calf
muscles	lengthen)	until	the	other	foot	is	fully	in	contact	with	the
floor.	This	is	essential	in	maintaining	your	sense	of	balance	and
forward	direction.	More	effort	is	required	to	move	in	deeper
water.
Avoid
	Don’t	walk	too	quickly,	move	the	arm	and	leg	on	the
same	side	together,	fix	the	arms	by	the	sides,	cross	the	mid-
line	with	arms	or	legs,	look	down	or	pull	the	head	back,	or
overextend	the	arms	by	pushing	them	too	far	forward.
2.	Retro	walking
Unless	you	work	as	a	tour	guide	or	a	Shaw	Method	swimming
teacher,	you	are	unlikely	to	spend	much	time	walking
backwards,	or	retro	walking.	Research	has	shown	that	it	is	a
valuable	form	of	exercise,	which	is	becoming	increasingly
popular	with	physiotherapists	as	a	part	of	rehabilitation
programmes.	Retro	walking	is	not	simply	the	mirror	image	of
forward	walking;	it	calls	for	an	increased	range	of	motion	in	the
knee	joint	and	a	similar	reduction	of	movement	in	the	hip.
Walking	
backwards	also	requires	more	control	of	the	trunk
muscles,	stretches	the	hamstrings	and	releases	the	hip	flexors.
•	Apart	from	aiding	muscle	balance	and	strengthening	opposing

•	Apart	from	aiding	muscle	balance	and	strengthening	opposing
muscles,	retro	walking	in	water	has	an	additional	benefit:	it
helps	cultivate	a	greater	awareness	of	the	connection	between
the	movement	of	the	legs	and	the	lower	back.	This	skill	is	also
essential	when	guiding	or	directing	a	partner,	for	example	in
the	glide.
•	From	a	standing	position,	lower	the	body	by	releasing	the
knees	until	the	shoulders	are	at	water	level.	Allow	the	arms	to
float	in	front	of	you	with	the	palms	upwards	(2a).
•	Gently	press	your	lower	back	against	the	water	and	smoothly
slide	your	feet	over	the	floor	(2b).
Remember
	Connect	with	the	floor,	lead	with	the	heels,	release
the	lower	back	and	widen	across	the	shoulders.
Avoid
	Do	not	overbalance	by	leaning	back	with	the	upper	back;
do	not	lift	the	feet	off	the	floor	or	move	the	head	from	side	to
side.
3.	The	bellows
Moving	sideways,	unless	you	are	trying	to	squeeze	through	a
narrow	space,	is	quite	unfamiliar.	Because	of	the	reduction	in
frontal	resistance,	sideways	movement	through	water	is	both
easier	as	you	experience	the	benefits	of	streamlining	and
harder	as	it	is	more	difficult	to	balance.	Sideways	movement	is
particularly	important	in	front	and	back	crawl,	where	the	aim	is
to	minimize	drag	and	maximize	reach.
This	practice	familiarizes	you	with	being	on	your	side	and
teaches	you	how	to	incorporate	a	regulated	breathing	pattern
as	you	widen	with	the	effect	of	buoyancy,	and	lengthen	in
response	to	the	water’s	resistance.

•	Standing	at	full	height,	turn	the	body	sideways	with	feet
together,	hands	resting	by	your	sides,	and	head	centred.	If
the	right	side	is	leading,	the	eyes	should	look	directly	to	the
left	throughout	(3a).
•	Elevate	the	left	leg	and	step	sideways,	opening	the	arms	to
horizontal	just	above	the	surface	of	the	water	(3b).	As	the
arms	open,	allow	air	to	enter	through	the	mouth.
•	Draw	the	right	leg	towards	the	left	and	actively	press	the
arms	down	until	you	are	in	the	original	opening	stance.	As	you

arms	down	until	you	are	in	the	original	opening	stance.	As	you
press	down,	breathe	out	and	think	about	lengthening	along
the	spine	(3a).
Remember
	Allow	the	effects	of	buoyancy	to	assist	the
elevation	of	the	arms	and	the	process	of	breathing	in.	Pressing
against	the	water	provides	the	stimulus	to	breathe	out.	Like	a
pair	of	bellows,	inflate	as	you	open	the	arms	and	deflate	as	you
close	them.
Avoid
	Do	not	actively	lift	the	arms,	lean	forward	as	the	arms
close,	or	twist	the	neck	to	look	in	the	direction	that	you	are
travelling	in.
4.	The	lunge
This	practice,	which	is	performed	by	the	wall	of	the	pool,
cultivates	good	alignment,	giving	you	the	opportunity	to	free
the	neck	and	feel	how	the	arm	extension	originates	from	the
back.	It	allows	you	to	work	on	balance	and	stability	in	water
whilst	still	being	grounded	through	contact	with	the	floor	and
walls	of	the	pool.	It	is	also	a	useful	practice	for	making	a
smooth	transition	from	standing	upright	to	lying	face	down.
•	Stand	in	the	water,	about	a	metre	(3ft)	away	from	the	side	of
the	pool.
•	Place	your	right	foot	forward	and	gently	release	the	knee;	if
possible	keep	the	left	heel	on	the	floor	–	the	effects	of
buoyancy	make	it	more	difficult	to	keep	the	heel	down,	which
further	encourages	lengthening	of	the	hamstrings.
•	Maintain	the	head-neck-back	relationship	and	extend	both
arms	to	the	wall	as	the	body	tilts	forward	(hands	are	angled
down	with	fingers	below	the	wrists,	wrists	below	elbows,
elbows	below	shoulders	and	the	head	is	in	continuation	of	the
spine).
•	Generate	an	even	pressure	against	the	wall	as	you	send	the
back	backwards.	Remain	in	this	position	for	the	count	of	ten
(4a).
•	Alternate	the	feet	and	notice	if	there	are	any	differences

•	Alternate	the	feet	and	notice	if	there	are	any	differences
between	the	left	and	right	sides.
Remember
	If	possible,	keep	the	heel	flat	on	the	floor	to	help
lengthen	the	hamstrings	and	improve	the	relationship	between
the	legs.	The	arms	connect	to	the	back;	as	they	reach	forward,
the	lower	back	is	directed	backwards.
Avoid
	Do	not	pull	the	head	back,	bury	the	head,	bend	the
elbows	or	arch	the	back.
*	For	a	more	difficult	version	of	the	practice,	do	it	without	the
support	of	the	wall,	as	it	is	harder	to	maintain	balance	and
more	of	a	challenge	for	the	postural	muscles.
5.	Facing	the	water
Most	people	find	the	water	a	little	cold	when	they	first	enter	a
pool,	and	it	normally	takes	a	minute	or	two	to	acclimatize.
Wetting	the	face	is	a	gentle	way	to	approach	facial	immersion,
teaching	you	to	counteract	the	automatic	tendency	to	tense	up
when	water	makes	contact	with	the	face.	This	practice	can	be
very	soothing,	releasing	tension	in	the	jaw	and	neck.
•	Without	goggles	(unless	you	are	wearing	contact	lenses)	cup

•	Without	goggles	(unless	you	are	wearing	contact	lenses)	cup
both	hands	and	collect	water	in	your	palms	(5a).
•	Softly	close	your	eyes	and	slowly	bring	the	water	towards
your	forehead	(5b).	Explore	your	automatic	reaction	–	is	it	to
screw	up	your	face,	hold	your	breath	or	pull	your	head	back
as	the	water	approaches?
•	Work	on	inhibiting	these	automatic	reactions	and	consciously
soften	your	face	as	the	water	makes	contact.
•	Release	tension	in	the	jaw	as	you	gently	drag	your	hands
down	the	face	and	over	the	eyelids,	while	slowly	breathing	out
and	saying	‘Aah’.	This	often	produces	a	very	soothing
sensation,	which	can	be	very	helpful	in	releasing	tension
headaches.
Remember
	Perform	this	action	as	slowly	as	possible;	soften
your	chest	and	stomach	as	well	as	the	face.

Avoid
	Do	not	hold	your	breath,	pull	the	head	back,	or	tense	the
facial	muscles.
6.	Lunging	with	the	face	submerged
The	next	stage	is	to	combine	placing	the	face	in	the	water	with
the	lunge	practice.	To	do	this,	it	is	preferable	to	wear	goggles,
open	the	eyes	and	look	down	at	the	floor.	This	can	be
performed	with	and	without	contact	with	the	side	of	the	pool,	or
with	a	partner	supporting	your	wrists.	It	familiarizes	you	with
the	sensation	of	breathing	out	into	water	while	having	your	feet
firmly	on	the	floor.	As	was	discussed	earlier,	it	is	important	to
passively	inhale	prior	to	putting	the	face	in	the	water,	and	to

passively	inhale	prior	to	putting	the	face	in	the	water,	and	to
exhale	gently	into	the	water.
•	Stand	in	water	no	deeper	than	chest-level,	facing	the	side	of
the	pool	and	about	a	metre	(3ft)	away	from	it.	Maintain	this
position	for	a	few	seconds,	breathing	in	a	relaxed	and
continuous	manner,	until	you	feel	stable	and	balanced.
•	With	arms	extended	think	about	maintaining	the	length	of
your	neck	and	back.	With	your	right	foot	forward	lower
yourself	down	and	place	the	face	in	the	water.	Gently	start	to
exhale,	saying	‘Aah’.
•	Continue	to	exhale	as	you	lean	into	the	water,	with	your
weight	shifting	to	the	hands	and	front	leg,	until	the	mouth	and
nose	are	fully	submerged.	Gently	exhale	for	around	five
seconds	(6a).
•	Before	running	low	on	breath,	step	forward	with	the	left	leg	as
you	press	down	with	the	arms	to	raise	the	head	and	torso	out
of	the	water.	Maintain	this	upright	stance	for	the	count	of	five
and	then	step	back	and	repeat	the	practice,	leading	with	the
left	leg.	Wait	until	the	water	dribbles	out	of	your	mouth	and
nose	before	allowing	the	in-breath.
Remember
	Lengthen	along	the	spine	as	you	move	between
the	vertical	and	horizontal	plane.	Those	less	familiar	with

putting	their	faces	in	the	water	may	find	it	easier	to	do	this
practice	with	both	feet	parallel,	bending	at	the	knees,	and	only
moving	on	to	the	one-foot-forward	version	when	they	feel
confident	and	stable.
Avoid
	Don’t	take	a	large	step,	shorten	the	neck,	or	gasp	or
swallow	air	just	before	the	face	enters	the	water.	Don’t	pull	the
head	back,	lift	the	arms	up	or	arch	the	back.
7(i).	The	glide
A	lack	of	poise	and	symmetry	when	swimming	is	often	the
result	of	not	having	spent	sufficient	time	learning	to	be	still	in
the	water.	Learning	to	glide	and	regain	the	feet	in	a	balanced
manner	can	have	a	very	positive	effect	on	one’s	overall	sense	of
control	in	the	water.
The	glide	is	the	ultimate	opportunity	to	experience	the
tangible	benefits	of	‘non-doing’.	It	calls	for	the	capacity	to	trust
the	water	as	well	as	to	lengthen	and	widen.	When	this	is
achieved,	the	glide	brings	a	powerful	sense	of	ease	and
liberation.	Novices	and	competent	swimmers	alike	often
attempt	to	hold	themselves	up,	instead	of	allowing	the	whole
body	to	be	supported	by	the	water.	This	is	often	due	to	the
misconception	that	if	they	do	nothing	they	will	sink.	However,
for	most	of	us,	when	the	water	supports	the	head	it	actually
takes	more	effort	to	sink	than	it	does	to	float.
The	glide	is	also	an	excellent	way	to	really	grasp	the	core
Alexander	Technique	principle	of	leading	with	the	head.	When
the	whole	body	rests	quietly	just	below	the	surface,	the	water
gives	us	direct	and	accurate	feedback	on	the	quality	of	the
relationship	of	the	head,	neck	and	back.	If,	for	example,	the
head	is	orientated	slightly	off-centre,	it	will	be	very	difficult	to
maintain	a	straight	course.
•	Face	the	length	or	width	of	the	pool	and	start	as	in	the
previous	practice.	This	time,	when	you	feel	your	weight
transferring	to	the	front	foot,	lean	forward	and	start	to	exhale.
Lean	into	the	water	as	the	head	leads	the	movement	into	the
horizontal	plane	(7[i]a).

horizontal	plane	(7[i]a).
•	Gently	drift	forward.	Keep	the	arms	relaxed,	extended	forward
and	angled	slightly	downward	in	order	to	maintain	stability
and	prevent	arching.
•	Lengthen	and	widen	the	back	while	continuing	to	exhale
gently.
•	Keep	the	legs	straight	and	together	without	locking	the	knees
or	lifting	the	hips	(7[i]b).
•	Maintain	the	glide	for	5–6	seconds	before	starting	to	regain
the	feet	(see	7ii).

Remember
	Think	of	your	head	as	a	rudder,	with	the	crown
leading	while	the	arms	act	as	stabilizers.	Trust	the	water	to
support	you,	and	move	at	a	slow	steady	pace,	freeing	the	neck
and	releasing	tension.	Consciously	relax	the	hands,	which	will
promote	a	sense	of	letting	go	throughout	the	rest	of	the	body.
Avoid
	Do	not	push	off	from	the	floor,	snatch	a	breath	just
before	the	face	enters	the	water,	pull	the	head	back	at	any
point,	hold	the	breath	or	exhale	forcefully.
7(ii).	Finding	the	feet
The	way	in	which	most	people	automatically	try	to	regain	their
feet	from	the	glide	is	to	pull	the	head	back.	(This	is	very	similar
to	the	way	in	which	many	stand	from	sitting.)	The	Shaw	Method
for	finding	the	feet	is	a	combination	of	tucking	up	the	body	as	if
to	prepare	to	somersault,	followed	by	a	skipping	action.
•	Bow	the	head	forward	and	down,	flex	the	ankles	and	make
your	toes	point	to	the	floor	by	bending	the	knees	and	bringing
the	feet	forward,	curling	up	into	a	foetal	position	
whilst
maintaining	the	length	and	direction	of	the	arms	(7[ii]a).
•	Gradually	swing	the	arms	towards	the	hips,	tuck	the	pelvis
under	using	the	abdominals	and	muscles	of	the	lower	back.
Begin	to	uncurl	your	spine	and	roll	the	head	up	so	that	the
eyes	look	straight	ahead.

eyes	look	straight	ahead.
•	Land	in	a	balanced	manner	with	the	feet	parallel	and	firmly
planted	on	the	floor	(7[ii]b).	Extend	to	full	height	with	the
head	centred.
Remember
	Finding	the	feet	from	the	glide	is	about	getting
down,	not	getting	up	–	as	long	as	you	intend	to	get	up	it	is	very
hard	to	inhibit	the	tendency	to	pull	the	head	back.	Enjoy	the
sense	of	curling	and	uncurling,	and	continue	to	breathe	out	as
your	face	leaves	the	water.
Avoid
	Do	not	pull	the	head	back	or	keep	it	pressed	down	as	the
arms	sweep	back.	Do	not	pull	the	arms	back	before	the	tuck,	as
this	will	force	the	legs	back	up.	Do	not	land	on	one	foot.
*	For	a	more	difficult	version	of	the	practice,	do	it	with	your
arms	by	your	sides,	as	it	is	harder	to	maintain	balance	and
provides	more	of	a	challenge	for	the	abdominal	muscles.
8.	Floating	on	the	back
The	ability	to	float	on	your	back	varies	greatly	from	person	to
person.	By	learning	to	relax	and	extend	the	arms,	many
confirmed	sinkers	are	surprised	to	find	they	can	actually	float.
Attitudes	to	floating	on	the	back	also	vary	greatly:	some	people
feel	out	of	control	while	others	feel	more	comfortable	on	their
back	than	on	their	front.	This	practice	will	help	less	buoyant
people	float,	and	help	‘extreme	floaters’	to	regain	their	feet	with
ease.
•	Prepare	to	float	on	your	back.
•	Without	turning	the	head,	release	the	knees	and	gradually
lower	the	body	into	a	crouch.
•	Turn	the	palms	upwards	and	gradually	extend	the	arms	to	the
side	as	you	lean	backwards	(8a).	Once	both	arms	are
extended,	take	one	foot	and	then	the	other	off	the	floor	and
float	on	to	your	back.	Continue	to	sweep	the	arms	until	they
are	fully	extended	behind	the	head,	resembling	the	glide

described	previously	(8b).
•	To	regain	your	feet,	first	tuck	in	the	chin,	then	bend	the
ankles	and	knees	(8c),	and	then	finally	sweep	the	arms	round
until	they	reach	the	surface	with	palms	facing	up	(8d).
Remember
	Free	the	neck	to	allow	the	weight	of	the	head	to	be
supported	by	the	water.	Release	the	shoulders	as	the	arms
move	backwards	and	attempt	to	keep	the	arms	submerged,
with	palms	upward,	throughout.	When	standing,	tuck	before
using	the	arms	–	the	face	may	get	a	little	wet	at	first,	but	with
practice	you	will	be	able	to	avoid	this.
Avoid
	Do	not	throw	the	head	backwards	or	lift	it	as	you	take
off.	Do	not	arch	the	back,	lift	the	head	or	tilt	it	back	in	the	glide.
Do	not	stiffen	the	neck	when	regaining	the	feet.
9.	Rotation
The	ability	to	rotate	provides	a	solid	foundation	for	developing
both	the	front	and	back	crawl.	This	practice	connects	floating	on
the	back	with	gliding	on	the	front,	utilizing	a	hip	rotation	to
achieve	the	transition.	It	teaches	breath	control	as	you	move
from	air	to	water,	and	reinforces	the	principle	of	leading	with

from	air	to	water,	and	reinforces	the	principle	of	leading	with
the	head.
•	Float	on	your	back	with	your	arms	by	your	sides.	If	you	tend
to	sink,	perform	a	gentle,	leg	action	to	keep	the	feet	up,	but
do	not	use	them	for	propulsion.
•	Allow	the	water	to	support	the	weight	of	the	head	and	breathe
gently.	Aim	to	maintain	this	position	for	ten	seconds	(9a).
•	Without	moving	the	rest	of	the	body,	start	looking	towards
your	left	shoulder.
•	Allow	the	shoulder	and	then	the	hip	to	follow	the	movement	of
the	head	(9b)	until	you	are	face	down	and	flat	in	the	water,
with	your	arms	still	by	your	sides.
•	Breathe	out	in	the	transition	between	air	and	water.	Remain
floating,	with	your	arms	by	your	sides,	for	five	seconds.	Then
tuck	to	regain	your	feet.
•	Perform	this	movement	again,	looking	towards	the	right
shoulder.	Most	people	have	a	preferred	side.
Remember
	This	movement	feels	like	rolling	a	log:	ensure	that
shoulders	and	hips	remain	loose	to	facilitate	the	movement.	If
you	are	uncomfortable	regaining	your	feet	with	your	arms	by
your	sides,	feel	free	to	extend	them.

Avoid
	Do	not	lead	the	rotation	with	any	body	part	other	than
the	head.	Do	not	close	the	eyes	and/or	hold	your	breath	as	your
face	becomes	immersed.	Do	not	pull	the	head	back	when
regaining	the	feet.
10.	The	wave
All	the	previous	practices	are	performed	on	either	a	vertical	or
horizontal	plane;	this	practice	allows	you	to	explore	movement
between	these	planes.	It	also	gives	you	the	opportunity	to
experiment	with	different	depths	and	the	upthrust	of	the	water,
which	is	important	in	both	the	breaststroke	and	butterfly
strokes.

The	wave	is	a	great	confidence-building	practice,	which	also
mobilizes	the	spine.	Many	people	initially	find	it	challenging,	but
then	it	becomes	fun	and	exhilarating.	The	key	is	to	focus	on
directing	the	body	forward	and	not	simply	up	and	down.
•	Step	forward	into	a	regular	glide	and	gently	start	to	exhale.
Maintain	this	position	for	a	few	seconds	until	you	feel	stable.
•	Raise	the	eyes	to	look	straight	ahead,	tilting	the	head	slightly
backward.	Keep	the	arms	extended	and	release	the	knees.
•	Actively	press	the	head,	neck	and	shoulders	down,	hollow	the
chest	and	allow	the	head	to	lead	the	rest	of	the	body	in	a
forward	and	slightly	downward	direction	(10a).	Straighten	the
legs	with	some	force,	contract	the	abdominals	to	lift	the	hips,
which	then	follow	the	movement	of	the	upper	body	towards
the	floor	(10b).
•	Keeping	the	arms	extended,	gradually	look	upwards	towards
the	surface.	Open	the	chest	and	allow	the	body	to	glide
forward	and	up	towards	the	surface.
•	When	your	eyes	see	the	surface	of	the	water	from	below,	tuck

•	When	your	eyes	see	the	surface	of	the	water	from	below,	tuck
in	the	head	and	regain	your	feet	(10c).
Remember
	The	downward	movement	is	active	and	the	upward
is	passive.	Flow	through	the	movement	(little	effort	is	required)
and	allow	the	hips	and	lower	back	to	move	in	a	wave-like
action.	As	you	descend,	exhale	through	the	nose	to	avoid	the
unpleasant	sensation	of	water	flooding	the	sinuses.
Avoid
	Do	not	shorten	the	arms	to	pull	the	body	down,	or
breathe	out	too	forcefully	as	this	will	make	it	harder	to	float
back	up.	Do	not	pull	the	head	back	too	far	as	you	come	up.
Swimming	different	strokes
To	appreciate	the	wider	health	benefits	of	swimming,	it	is
important	to	swim	a	combination	of	strokes.	Apart	from	working
different	parts	of	the	body,	each	stroke	engages	the	brain	in
different	ways	and	produces	differing	sensations.	Although
some	people	clearly	have	an	affinity	or	preference	for	a	certain
stroke,	no	stroke	is	intrinsically	more	difficult	than	another.
Unless	there	is	a	medical	reason	for	avoiding	a	stroke	(such	as
a	hip	replacement,	which	makes	the	breaststroke	leg	action
unsafe),	we	all	have	the	capacity	to	perform	each	stroke	in	a
relaxed	and	confident	way.	Many	people	with	chronic	back
conditions	believe	that	they	must	avoid	the	breaststroke	and
butterfly.	In	my	experience,	swimming	these	strokes	with	the
Shaw	Method	can	do	more	to	relieve	back	pain	than	back	or
front	crawl.	If	you	are	in	doubt,	talk	to	a	health	professional
about	your	concerns.
CHECKPOINTS
•	Are	there	other	physical	activities	that	you	approach	in
an	unthinking	way?
•	What	are	the	factors	that	affect	your	ability	to	float?
•	Are	you	aware	of	day-to-day	situations	in	which	you	pull
your	head	back?

your	head	back?
•	Can	you	think	of	circumstances	when	it	is	appropriate	to
hold	your	breath?

	
Breaststroke	has	existed	since	prehistoric	times.	Stone	Age
paintings	featuring	a	similar	stroke	were	found	in	the	‘cave	of
swimmers’	near	Wadi	Sora	in	Egypt.	It	was	the	only	stroke
permitted	during	the	great	plague	in	the	Middle	Ages,	because
swimmers	could	keep	their	faces	out	of	the	water	and	therefore
would	not,	it	was	believed,	spread	the	epidemic.
Breaststroke	was	also	the	preferred	stroke	in	Victorian
Britain,	where	an	overarm	action	was	deemed	inelegant	and
unsuitable	for	ladies	and	gentlemen.	It	was	the	original
competitive	stroke	and	was	popularized	by	Captain	Webb	who,
in	1875,	became	the	first	man	to	swim	the	English	Channel.
In	the	UK	and	many	other	parts	of	the	world,	breaststroke
remains	the	most	popular	stroke	today.	Its	relative	stability,
with	the	arms	and	legs	working	in	tandem,	makes	it	accessible
to	swimmers	of	all	levels.	For	many,	its	appeal	is	the	long	glide
where	the	arms	and	legs	are	still	as	the	swimmer	advances;
others	appreciate	that	it	strengthens	and	tones	their	legs,	whilst
some	choose	it	as	the	best	means	of	keeping	their	hair	dry!
Breaststroke	is	easy	to	swim	but	hard	to	swim	well;	despite
its	popularity	few	are	able	to	perform	the	stroke	in	a	way	that
promotes	good	overall	‘use’.	Many	swim	with	their	heads	held
up	out	of	the	water,	placing	great	pressure	on	the	spine.	Even	if
people	swim	with	their	face	in	the	water,	they	rarely	have	an
effective	arm	and	leg	action	or	good	timing.
Furthermore,	because	most	have	swum	this	stroke	regularly
since	childhood,	detrimental	habits	have	become	so	strongly
ingrained	that	the	prospect	of	change	is	more	challenging	than
with	a	less	familiar	stroke.
There	is	little	point	in	tinkering	with	individual	elements	of
the	stroke:	the	best	recipe	for	success	is	to	recraft	it	from
scratch.	The	following	three	breaststroke	lessons	take	you
through	a	series	of	practices	covering	the	core	elements	of	the
stroke.	Only	when	you	have	firmly	established	an	effective	arm
and	leg	action	are	you	ready	to	progress	to	the	more	complex
process	of	coordinating	the	stroke	and	integrating	the	breath.

Shaw	Method	key	features
Orientation
	Low,	both	in	the	glide,	where	the	neck	is	fully
extended	with	the	eyes	looking	straight	down,	and	in	the
breathing	position,	where	the	chin	rests	near	the	surface.
Arm	action
	In	the	initial	glide	position,	the	arms	are	directed
slightly	downward.	Little	effort	is	expended	in	the	opening
phase	as	the	upper	back	widens;	in	the	propulsive	movement,
the	focus	is	on	holding	the	water	to	draw	the	torso	forward	and
up,	as	opposed	to	pulling	the	arms	back.
Leg	action
	We	stress	the	importance	of	the	non-propulsive
element	of	the	leg	action,	where	the	legs	release	before	actively
pushing	back.	We	advocate	a	wide,	wedge-like	action	as
opposed	to	the	narrower,	more	common	whip	kick,	because	it
promotes	hip	mobility	and	reduces	the	risk	of	knee	injury.
Rhythm
	In	the	competitive	model,	where	the	objective	is	to
move	into	the	propulsive	actions	as	quickly	as	possible,	a	long
glide	is	perceived	as	a	waste	of	time.	Breaststroke	according	to
the	Shaw	Method	is	a	series	of	glides	punctuated	by	active
movements.	The	glide	is	at	the	heart	of	the	stroke,	giving	the
swimmer	more	time	to	release	the	breath	and	lengthen	and
widen	the	back.
Benefits
Breaststroke	can	improve	the	mobility	of	many	joints	including
the	hips,	shoulders,	ankles,	wrists	and	spine.	As	a	leg-dominant
stroke,	the	breaststroke	strengthens	and	tones	the	quadriceps
at	the	front	of	the	legs	and	the	hamstrings	at	the	back.	This	is
also	the	reason	why	breaststroke	can	be	an	effective	way	of
improving	aerobic	fitness,	as	despite	being	the	slowest	stroke,	it
burns	the	most	calories.	Many	find	the	long	glide,	where	the
swimmer	gently	exhales,	particularly	calming	and	meditative.
Because	of	the	inherent	stability	of	the	stroke,	it	is	often	a
comfortable	way	to	begin	to	explore	the	transition	between	air
and	water.

Risks	and	common	mistakes
Alignment
1.	The	common	practices	of	craning	the	neck	and	snatching	it
out	of	the	water	to	breathe	puts	strain	on	the	spine	and	can
create	a	whiplash-type	injury.
2.	Permanently	holding	the	head	high,	both	in	the	glide	and	the
breathing	phases,	increases	drag/resistance	as	well	stiffening
the	neck	and	creating	a	hump.	For	every	inch	the	head	is	lifted,
the	hips	sink	two	inches.
3.	In	competitive	breaststroke,	coaches	encourage	swimmers	to
hunch	their	shoulders	in	order	to	maximize	the	streamlining	of
the	body,	usually	resulting	in	poor	posture	and	shallow
breathing.
Timing
1.	Many	swimmers	have	difficultly	coordinating	this	stroke,	and
the	arm	and	leg	actions	are	often	executed	simultaneously.	This
not	only	reduces	the	propulsive	effects	of	the	limbs,	but
produces	a	concertina-like	effect	which	strains	the	back.
2.	Hurriedly	pulling	the	heels	towards	the	seat	can	also	injure
the	lower	back.
3.	A	short	glide	does	not	provide	sufficient	time	to	exhale
comfortably,	which	can	give	rise	to	an	erratic	breathing	pattern
and	even	to	hyperventilation.
Propulsion
1.	If	you	apply	too	much	effort	to	open	the	arms,	and	open
them	too	wide,	it	not	only	increases	drag	but	can	also
significantly	reduce	the	effectiveness	of	the	arm	action.
2.	Most	knee	injuries	are	related	to	the	use	of	the	whip	kick
(see	glossary).	‘Breaststroker’s	knee’	is	the	result	of	repeated
stress	on	the	medial	collateral	ligament.
3.	A	lack	of	awareness	or	inflexibility	in	either	hip	hinders	the
ability	to	produce	a	symmetrical	leg	action.	The	resulting	‘screw
kick’	not	only	produces	an	uneven	thrust	and	twist	of	the	spine,
but	once	established	it	is	very	difficult	to	unlearn.

but	once	established	it	is	very	difficult	to	unlearn.
LESSON	1:	ARM	ACTION
The	sculling	arm	action	(see	glossary)	in	breaststroke	promotes
flexibility	of	the	wrist,	elbow	and	shoulder	joints.	It	is	an	ideal
antidote	to	the	sustained	arm	position	of	many	keyboard	users,
which	often	results	in	repetitive	strain	injury	(RSI).	Similar	fluid
arm	movements	are	also	integral	to	martial	arts.
The	aim	of	this	lesson	is	to	develop	a	smooth,	rhythmical
and	effective	arm	action.	Unlike	front	crawl	and	backstroke,
where	the	upper	body	is	dominant,	breaststroke	is	leg-
dominant	and	the	main	purpose	of	the	arms	is	to	elevate	the
torso	to	facilitate	inhalation.	This	action,	during	which	the	hands
remain	submerged,	has	four	phases:	extension,	opening	out,
the	pull–lift	phase,	and	recovery.	The	key	to	achieving	an
effective	arm	action	is	to	apply	minimal	effort	during	the	non-
propulsive	phases	and	the	appropriate	amount	of	drive	during
the	propulsive	phase.
This	lesson	takes	you	through	a	series	of	practices	that	cover
the	component	parts	of	the	arm	action,	showing	you	how	to
time	and	coordinate	them	correctly.	To	avoid	stressing	the	neck
and	back,	the	face	remains	in	the	water	during	horizontal
practices.	Remember:	as	breaststroke	is	a	leg-dominant	stroke,
it	is	unnecessary	to	apply	a	lot	of	effort	with	the	arms.
1.	Scooping
This	practice	can	be	performed	in	the	pool	or	on	dry	land.	The
aim	is	to	coordinate	the	various	phases	of	the	arm	action
without	hunching	the	shoulders	or	narrowing	the	back.	As	a
stationary	practice,	it	encourages	you	to	focus	on	the	quality	of
movement	without	the	distraction	of	achieving	forward	motion.

•	Start	in	the	opening	stance;	maintain	this	position	for	a	few
seconds	to	achieve	balance	and	stability.
•	Extend	the	arms	forward	and	slightly	down,	elbows	below
shoulders,	wrists	below	elbows,	fingers	below	wrists,	hands
side	by	side,	palms	down	(1a).	The	head-neck-back	should	be
well	aligned	with	the	eyes	looking	at	the	hands;	the	breathing
relaxed	and	continuous	throughout.
•	Count	to	three,	then	gently	rotate	your	palms	outward	and
begin	to	open	your	arms	(1b),	starting	the	movement	across
the	back,	until	they	arrive	just	beyond	shoulder	width	by	the
count	of	five.	Maintain	the	length	of	the	arms	and	the	depth	of
the	hands.
•	On	the	count	of	six,	rotate	the	wrists	so	that	the	palms	are
facing	inwards	and	actively	scoop	the	hands	in	towards	the
stomach.	By	the	count	of	seven,	the	hands	should	have
formed	a	loose,	cupping	position	just	below	the	ribs	(1c).
•	On	the	count	of	eight,	direct	the	hands	forward	and	down,
until	the	arms	are	fully	lengthened	without	locking	elbows,
with	the	palms	facing	down	and	the	hands	together	(1a).	With
the	eyes	looking	straight	ahead,	maintain	a	balanced,
lengthened	position	for	two	beats.	Repeat	the	sequence.

Remember
	Stand	tall,	keeping	the	neck	long	and	the	eyes
looking	straight	ahead.	Perform	the	opening	phases	with
minimal	effort.	Think	about	the	lower	back	staying	back	and
relax	the	hands	as	the	arms	move	forward.
Avoid
	Do	not	lock	the	arms	and	angle	them	up	in	the	initial
extension	and	recovery	phases.	Do	not	collapse	the	chest	as	the
arms	open	out.	Do	not	hunch	the	shoulders	or	bring	the	elbows
behind	the	torso	in	the	scooping	phase.
2.	Stepping
This	practice,	in	addition	to	reinforcing	the	correct	arm	action,
will	develop	your	appreciation	of	the	connection	between	arms
and	breathing	pattern.	Here	the	objective	is	to	utilize	the
resistance	of	the	water	to	pull	the	body	forward,	as	opposed	to
sweeping	the	arms	backwards.	It	requires	you	to	synchronize
the	movement	of	the	arms	with	a	step	–	a	good	foundation	to
draw	upon	during	the	later	stages	of	coordinating	the	arm	and
leg	actions.
•	Step	forward	with	the	right	leg	and	simultaneously	extend	the
arms	forward	and	down	as	you	start	to	exhale	gently	(2a).
•	With	your	weight	spread	evenly	on	both	feet,	widen	the	back
and	open	the	arms,	continuing	to	exhale	slowly	(2b).
•	With	a	scooping	arm	action,	bring	the	left	foot	forward	in	line
with	the	other	leg.	Allow	the	air	to	come	in	through	the	mouth
(2c).
•	Breathe	out	as	you	step	forward	with	the	left	foot	and
simultaneously	extend	your	arms;	both	feet	now	share	your
weight	equally.
•	Repeat	the	sequence	with	the	other	foot	leading,	noticing	any
differences.
Remember
	In	the	opening	phase,	maintain	the	length	of	the
arms.	Keep	the	head	centred	and	the	neck	long	throughout.
Take	your	time	–	there	is	no	need	to	hurry.
Avoid
	Do	not	step	forward	out	of	sequence,	
i.e.
	before	the

arms	start	their	recovery.	Do	not	sweep	the	arms	back.
3.	Step	and	glide
In	breaststroke,	the	glide	is	very	much	at	the	heart	of	the

In	breaststroke,	the	glide	is	very	much	at	the	heart	of	the
stroke	and	this	practice	reinforces	its	importance.	For	many
people,	the	process	of	lengthening	along	the	spine	is	easier	to
recognize	when	they	are	standing	up	than	when	they	are	face
down	in	the	water.	Here	the	smooth	transition	between	vertical
and	horizontal	is	a	reminder	to	lengthen	in	the	water.
•	Start	as	in	the	previous	practice	and	perform	one	complete
cycle	of	the	combined	arm	and	stepping	practice.	Pause	at	the
end	of	the	sequence	(3a).
•	Begin	to	exhale	as	you	shift	your	weight	on	to	the	right	foot
and	with	the	head	leading,	angle	the	body	down	into	a	well-
balanced	glide	with	the	eyes	looking	at	the	floor.	Ensure	that
the	front	foot	makes	full	contact	with	the	floor	and	is	carrying
your	body	weight	before	launching	off	(3b).
•	Maintain	the	glide	for	a	few	seconds	as	you	allow	the	water	to
support	you;	lengthen	and	widen	your	back	(3c).
•	Tuck	to	regain	the	feet	and	then	repeat	the	action	with	the
left	leg	leading.
Remember
	You	may	be	surprised	by	how	far	you	travel	–	the
momentum	gained	by	stepping	into	the	glide	is	quite	significant.
Keep	the	hands	soft	throughout.
Avoid
	Do	not	stumble	as	a	result	of	not	putting	the	foot	down
firmly	before	taking	off.	Do	not	snatch	a	breath	or	pull	the	head
back	when	going	into	the	glide.
4.	Floating	arms

4.	Floating	arms
The	aim	of	this	practice	is	to	move	from	an	extended	glide	into
the	opening-out	phase	whilst	maintaining	the	length	and
direction	of	the	arms.	This	action	creates	a	stable	base	prior	to
the	application	of	propulsive	effort.
•	Step	forward	into	a	well-balanced	glide,	with	thumbs	touching
and	palms	face	down.	Maintain	this	position	as	you	breathe
out	for	three	or	four	seconds	(4a).
•	Gently	rotate	your	palms	outwards	and	begin	to	float	the
arms	apart	so	that	they	are	a	little	wider	than	the	width	of
your	shoulders.	Do	not	apply	much	effort:	a	good	analogy
here	is	to	imagine	lengthening	a	fine	thread	(4b).
•	Maintain	this	position	for	a	further	3–4	seconds	before	tucking
to	regain	your	feet.	If	you	float	well	and	have	the	ability	to
relax	your	breathing,	you	can	repeat	this	practice	two	or	three
times	before	regaining	your	feet.
Remember
	Imagine	balancing	on	a	narrow	beam	when	the
hands	are	together	and	on	a	wider	beam	when	they	are	apart.
Allow	this	widening	movement	to	originate	from	the	back.
Avoid
	Do	not	raise	the	head,	tense	the	arms	or	sweep	them
back.
5.	Arm	action
This	practice	integrates	the	different	arm	movements	on	the
horizontal	plane	and	requires	the	ability	to	trickle	breathe	(see
glossary).	Without	the	distraction	of	the	leg	action,	you	can	give
the	quality	of	this	movement	your	full	attention.
•	Inhale	lightly	and	launch	into	a	stable	glide;	maintain	for
three	seconds	with	a	free	neck	and	the	eyes	looking	straight
down.	Breathe	out	gently	(5a).
•	Widen	the	back	and	slide	the	arms	apart	to	just	beyond
shoulder	width,	palms	and	eyes	down;	continue	to	breathe
out	gently	(5b).

out	gently	(5b).
•	Scoop	the	hands	and	forearms	down	and	towards	each	other
(5c).	The	palms	come	together	just	in	front	of	the	chest	(5d).
Continue	to	exhale.
•	Extend	the	arms	forward	and	down,	until	they	are	fully
lengthened	with	the	palms	facing	down	and	hands	together.
Continue	the	exhalation	in	a	stable	glide	for	a	further	three
seconds	and	regain	the	feet.
•	Repeat	the	practice	twice	before	regaining	the	feet.	Be	sure	to
breathe	out	gently.
Remember
	Maintain	the	head-neck-back	alignment	with	your
face	in	the	water	throughout.	If	your	feet	sink,	lower	the	head	a
little	or	paddle	to	keep	them	up.
Avoid
	Do	not	exhale	explosively,	as	this	reduces	your	ability	to
float.	Do	not	pull	the	elbows	behind	the	shoulders,	as	it	narrows
the	upper	back	and	encourages	arching.	Do	not	lock	the	arms
or	direct	them	upward	in	the	recovery.

LESSON	2:	LEG	ACTION
As	people	age,	their	range	of	motion,	particularly	of	the	hips,
knees	and	ankles,	tends	to	reduce	and	many	develop	arthritis
from	wear	and	tear.	The	inflexibility	of	these	weight-bearing
joints	is	often	cited	as	a	major	reason	for	the	increasing	number
of	hip	and	knee	replacements.	Most	do	very	little	in	their	daily
lives	to	promote	suppleness	in	these	areas	and	without	targeted
flexibility	exercises,	the	abductor	muscles	around	these	joints
inevitably	seize	up	over	time.
An	efficient	breaststroke	leg	action	is	a	simple	and	effective
way	to	maintain	the	health	of	the	hip	joint	and	promote	overall
leg	flexibility.
In	Japanese	culture,	the	common	practice	of	sitting	on	the
floor	requires	significant	hip	abduction	(movement	away	from
the	centre-line),	which	results	in	lower	rates	of	arthritis	in	the

the	centre-line),	which	results	in	lower	rates	of	arthritis	in	the
lower	limbs.	It	is	no	coincidence	that	the	Japanese	are
particularly	adept	at	breaststroke	and	their	swimmers	have	had
a	great	deal	of	success	in	this	stroke.
The	leg	action	provides	most	of	the	forward	thrust	in
breaststroke,	producing	around	70	per	cent	of	the	overall
propulsion.	The	symmetrical	action	of	the	legs	resembles	the
movement	of	a	swimming	frog	–	hence	the	term	‘frog	kick’.	In
competitive	swimming,	a	narrow,	streamlined	leg	action	known
as	the	whip	kick	is	favoured.
In	the	Shaw	Method,	a	wider	action,	which	places	less	stress
on	the	knees,	is	preferred.	This	movement	consists	of	two
phases:	the	preparatory	phase	and	the	thrust	phase.
•	
Preparatory
	From	the	glide	with	the	legs	extended
backward,	the	ankles	are	released	to	allow	the	feet	to	turn
slightly	outward.	The	heels	are	drawn	gently	towards	the
posterior	as	the	thighs	and	knees	are	turned	out.
•	
Thrust
	The	legs	are	driven	backwards	and	inwards	to	the
glide	position,	gaining	force	and	pace	throughout	the
movement.	Propulsion	is	gained	through	a	combination	of
driving	the	legs	back	and	drawing	them	together.

In	an	effective	leg	action,	the	feet	change	plane.	They	move
from	being	close	to	the	
surface	of	the	water	during	the	glide,	to
a	few	inches	below	the	surface,	and	then	back	up	in	a	wave-like
motion.
In	the	following	practices,	the	legs	are	isolated	from	the
arms,	enabling	you	to	focus	on	this	critical	aspect	of	the	stroke.
Separating	the	arm	and	leg	actions	is	also	an	effective	means	of
breaking	the	unhelpful	pattern	of	moving	them	simultaneously.
1.	Leg	extension
This	practice	promotes	flexibility	in	the	hip,	thigh	and	groin
areas,	which	is	essential	in	an	effective	breaststroke	leg	action.
It	also	highlights	the	importance	of	good	alignment.
•	Stand	in	shallow	water,	at	right	angles	to	the	edge	of	the
pool.	Extend	the	right	arm	and	rest	it	on	the	poolside;	ensure
that	the	right	foot	is	firmly	on	the	floor,	facing	forwards.
•	Release	the	left	arm	so	it	rests	by	the	left	hip	and	rotate	the
torso	to	the	left.	Take	the	left	foot	off	the	floor	and	allow	it	to
lengthen	as	it	floats	up	(1a).
•	Keep	the	right	hand	firmly	in	contact	with	the	side	as	the	left
leg	rises	and	extends.	Point	the	toes	in	line	with	the	leg.
Remember
	Free	the	neck	and	head	in	continuation	of	the	spine
and	allow	the	leg	to	lengthen	out	from	the	hip.
Avoid
	Do	not	lift	the	leg	too	high	and	arch	the	back,	twist	the
back,	push	the	head	down,	or	twist	the	front	foot	so	that	the
toes	turn	inward.
2.	Sumo	stance
This	practice	familiarizes	you	with	turning	both	feet	out	evenly
and	opening	the	hips	into	what	is	for	most	an	unfamiliar,	frog-
like	position.	It	promotes	a	symmetrical	leg	action	–	one	of	the
hallmarks	of	an	efficient	breaststroke.	It	also	addresses	the
importance	of	not	arching	the	back	as	the	knees	bend.
•	Think	of	releasing	the	neck	and	place	the	hands	on	the	side	of

•	Think	of	releasing	the	neck	and	place	the	hands	on	the	side	of
the	pool.	Stand	facing	the	poolside,	a	little	way	away	from	it,
in	water	no	deeper	than	chest	level.	The	knees	should	be	hip-
width	apart,	and	the	feet	turned	out	slightly	and	away	from
the	wall.
•	Bend	the	knees	and	direct	them	outward	as	you	lower
yourself	a	few	inches.	The	inner	knees	should	make	light
contact	with	the	wall.
•	Gently	press	the	knees	into	the	wall.	Notice	a	gentle	stretch
running	along	the	inside	of	the	thighs	and	hips	(2a).
•	Continue	to	exert	gentle	pressure	for	10	seconds	before
standing	up	to	full	height	and	relaxing	both	legs.	Repeat	this
practice	at	least	three	times.
Remember
	Direct	knees	outward,	keep	heels	in	contact	with
the	floor,	ensure	that	the	tailbone	drops	aways	and	the	knees
move	in	ine	with	the	toes.
Avoid
	Do	not	hollow	the	back	or	twist	the	pelvis.	Do	not	exert
more	pressure	on	one	side	or	turn	either	foot	inward.	Do	not	let
the	head	fall	forward	or	pull	it	back.

3.	Supported	frog
Here,	comfortably	supported	by	the	side	of	the	pool,	you	can
gently	practice	the	full	leg	action	with	a	clear	view	and	without
the	distraction	of	trying	to	get	anywhere.	It	clearly	emphasizes
the	difference	between	the	releasing	and	active	phases	of	the
leg	action.	This	practice	works	particularly	well	in	deck-level
pools.
•	Stand	with	your	back	against	the	corner	of	the	pool.	Place	the
elbows	on	the	side	of	the	pool	and	lift	the	legs	to	float	just
below	the	surface.	Extend	the	legs	and	maintain	this	position
for	four	beats	(3a).
•	Release	the	ankles	and	knees	(so	they	drop	a	few	inches),
gently	draw	the	feet	into	the	frog	position	and	breathe	in.	Pay
attention	to	establishing	and	maintaining	symmetry	(3b).
•	Push	outward	with	the	soles	(3c),	then	turn	the	feet	inwards
and	actively	bring	both	legs	towards	each	other;	exhale	gently
(3a).	Maintain	the	extension	for	four	beats	whilst	continuing

(3a).	Maintain	the	extension	for	four	beats	whilst	continuing
to	breathe	out	gently.
Remember
	Release	the	hips	and	stomach	muscles	in	the	first
phase	and	contract	them	in	the	dynamic	phase.
Avoid
	Do	not	snatch	the	legs	in	forcefully,	as	this	will	sabotage
the	propulsive	phase.
4.	Frog	with	the	face	down
Here,	the	non-propulsive	phase	of	the	leg	action	is	practiced
separately.	When	you	are	on	your	front,	it	can	be	hard	to	avoid
following	the	unhelpful	pattern	of	the	feet	breaking	the	surface,
but	here	you	have	an	opportunity	to	correct	this	before	putting
any	effort	into	the	leg	action,	which	can	be	injurious	if	the	legs
are	too	high	in	the	water.
In	full	breaststroke,	this	phase	corresponds	to	the	opening
and	scooping	of	the	arms	and	therefore	needs	to	be	slow
enough	to	allow	sufficient	time	to	perform	both	arm
movements.

•	Step	forward,	extend	the	arms	and	drift	off	into	a	glide	with
the	feet	together,	arms	directed	forward	and	down,	and	eyes
looking	straight	down.	Maintain	this	glide	for	four	beats.
•	Turn	the	toes	out,	release	the	ankles	and	knees,	and	slowly
draw	the	heels	towards	the	posterior	(4a).
•	Maintain	this	position	for	four	beats.	Lengthen	and	draw	both
legs	together	without	thrusting,	then	regain	the	feet.
•	Repeat	the	frog	with	face	down	sequence	until	it	is	balanced,
with	both	feet	symmetrical.
Remember
	Think	about	primary	control,	and	opening	the	legs

without	effort.	Keep	both	feet	submerged	at	all	times.
Avoid
	Do	not	lift	the	head	or	arch	the	back,	pull	the	feet	up
with	effort	or	bring	them	up	to	the	posterior	(this	can	strain	the
lower	back).
5.	One	leg	at	a	time
This	practice	familiarizes	you	with	the	movement	of	the	legs
while	you	are	on	your	front.	By	working	a	single	leg,	it	is	easier
to	tell	if	there	are	any	differences	between	the	left	and	right
side.	It	is	also	a	helpful	way	to	work	on	the	tempo	of	the	leg
action.
•	Stand	at	90°	to	the	wall	of	the	pool,	in	water	no	deeper	than
shoulder	height.
•	Place	the	left	hand	on	the	side	of	the	pool,	the	left	foot	on	the
floor,	and	rotate	the	right	hip	outwards	to	allow	the	right	foot
to	float	behind	with	the	toes	pointed	(5a).
•	Release	the	right	leg	so	it	sinks	a	few	inches	and	rotate	the
ankle	joint	to	turn	the	foot	out.
•	Release	the	right	knee	and	gently	draw	the	foot	towards	your
seat.	Pause	for	a	couple	of	seconds	(5b).
•	In	a	single	continuous	movement,	actively	thrust	the	right	leg

•	In	a	single	continuous	movement,	actively	thrust	the	right	leg
out	until	it	is	fully	extended	and	then	draw	it	back	towards	the
centre.
•	Repeat	five	times	with	the	right	leg	and	then	change	to	the
left,	noting	any	differences.
Remember
	Direct	the	knee	and	foot	outwards	as	the	head
remains	centred.
Avoid
	Do	not	shorten	the	neck,	actively	draw	in	the	leg	instead
of	releasing	it,	or	turn	the	knee	of	the	standing	leg	inward.


6.	Complete	leg	action
In	this	practice,	the	arms	do	not	move	but	their	position	is	vital
to	the	functioning	of	the	legs.	If	they	are	placed	too	high,	this
will	arch	the	back,	making	it	harder	to	generate	propulsive	force
(it	is	also	potentially	injurious).	If	you	tend	to	move	the	arms
and	legs	together,	you	may	feel	a	compulsion	to	bend	the	arms
when	the	legs	start	to	move:	this	must	be	avoided.
•	Launch	into	a	glide,	point	the	toes	and	extend	the	legs
without	locking	the	knees.
•	Turn	the	feet	out	to	allow	the	ankles,	knees	and	hips	to	rotate
outwards.	Release	the	
ankles	and	knees,	and	draw	the	feet
towards	the	seat	as	the	hips	widen	(6a).
•	Sequence:	ankles,	knees	and	then	hips	in	one	gentle,

•	Sequence:	ankles,	knees	and	then	hips	in	one	gentle,
controlled	movement.	Maintain	the	second	glide	for	four	beats
and	then	stand	before	repeating.
•	Drive	the	feet	back	and	out.	As	the	knees	straighten,	turn	and
point	the	feet	and	draw	the	legs	together	into	a	glide	(6b).
Remember
	Observe	how	an	effective	kick	allows	the	whole
body	to	be	directed	dynamically	forward	in	one	horizontal	plane,
with	your	head	leading.
Avoid
	Do	not	shorten	the	arms	as	the	knees	bend,	make	an
uneven	or	screw	kick,	or	pull	the	head	back.	If	one	ankle	or	hip
is	stiff,	it	may	be	difficult	to	achieve	a	symmetrical	leg	action,
which	will	inevitably	push	the	body	off	balance.
LESSON	3:	TIMING	AND	BREATHING
Timing
When	working	to	establish	the	correct	timing	in	breaststroke,	it
is	useful	to	remember	the	function	of	the	arms	and	legs.	The
primary	purpose	of	the	arms	is	to	lift	your	body	forward	and	up,
and	the	role	of	the	legs	is	to	push	you	forward	and	down.	So
the	objective,	when	combining	arms	and	legs,	is	to	release	the
legs	as	the	arms	perform	their	propulsive	action,	and	to	extend
the	arms	when	the	legs	thrust.	Never	open	the	arms	until	the
legs	are	closed.	The	body	is	travelling	at	maximum	velocity	at
the	end	of	the	leg	action,	so	enjoy	the	glide.
Breathing
During	the	glide,	a	gradual	exhalation	through	the	mouth	takes
place	underwater.	The	face	is	elevated	to	breathe,	which	is	the
combined	result	of	a	scooping	arm	action,	which	raises	the
upper	body,	and	the	release	of	the	knees,	which	causes	the	hips
to	descend.	A	minimal	movement	of	the	head	is	all	that	is
required	to	comfortably	inhale	through	the	mouth	at	the	end	of
the	pull–lift	phase.
1.	Chair	practice

1.	Chair	practice
Before	attempting	to	combine	the	arm	and	leg	action	in	the
water,	it	is	helpful	to	practise	on	dry	land.	Standing	upright,	you
can	work	for	a	sustained	period	on	coordination,	timing	and
rhythm	without	having	to	stop	to	take	a	breath.
•	Stand	in	front	of	a	chair	with	the	arms	extended,	feet	spread
around	hip-width	apart	and	turned	out,	and	legs	extended	to
the	count	of	1,	2,	3,	4	(1a).
•	Open	the	arms	gently	and	broaden	across	the	back	(count	5,
6)	(1b).
•	Release	the	wrists	and	scoop	the	hands	in	towards	the
stomach.	Bend	the	elbows	(7)	and	then	the	knees	(8)	to	sit	at
the	edge	of	the	chair	(1c).
•	Push	up	with	the	legs	(9)	and	extend	the	arms	forward	(10),
with	the	eyes	looking	straight	
ahead	(1a).	Repeat	this	until
the	timing	feels	comfortable,	then	remove	the	chair	and
perform	the	action	without	support.	This	practice	also	works
well	standing	in	water.
Remember
	Arms	lead	the	first	part	of	the	stroke	and	the	legs

lead	the	second.	Keep	the	heels	in	contact	with	the	floor
throughout.
Avoid
	Do	not	lean	forwards,	sway	backwards,	bend	the	knees
before	the	arms	have	started	their	scoop,	or	finish	the	arm
extension	before	the	legs	start	to	straighten.
2.	Glide	–	arms	and	legs
Here	you	return	to	the	previous	lessons	to	consolidate	your
learning.	Since	it	has	been	a	while	since	you	worked	on	the
glide	and	arm	actions,	it	is	a	good	idea	to	re-familiarize	yourself
with	them	before	attempting	to	combine	the	two.
•	Step	into	the	glide	with	the	eyes	looking	down	at	the	floor	and
the	crown	of	the	head	leading.	Maintain	the	glide	for	4–5
seconds	before	regaining	the	feet.
•	Perform	one	complete	sequence	of	arm	movements	with	the
face	in	the	water	and	legs	together.	Regain	the	feet.
•	Perform	one	complete	sequence	of	leg	actions	with	the	arms
extended	and	regain	the	feet.
•	Return	to	the	glide	and	repeat	the	sequence	of	glide,	stand;
arms,	stand;	legs,	stand	at	least	three	times.
Remember
	Think	about	the	quality	and	tempo	of	each
separate	action	in	isolation,	breathing	out	gently	when	the	face
is	submerged.
Avoid
	Do	not	shorten	the	neck,	perform	more	than	one	leg	or
arm	action	each	time,	or	move	the	legs	when	working	on	the
arms	and	vice	versa.
3.	Arm	with	legs
Having	revised	the	separate	elements,	you	are	now	ready	to
integrate	them.	Here	it	is	useful	to	remind	yourself	that	the
breaststroke	is	a	leg-dominant	stroke,	and	to	avoid	putting	too
much	effort	into	the	arm	action.	If	you	are	dissatisfied	with	any
part	of	the	action,	ignore	the	temptation	to	repeat	it	before
regaining	your	feet	–	it	is	far	better	to	stand	up	and	start	the

regaining	your	feet	–	it	is	far	better	to	stand	up	and	start	the
movement	again.
•	Breathe	in	gently,	step	forward	and	drift	into	a	glide.	Breathe
out	lightly	and	maintain	this	position,	with	hands	together	and
palms	facing	down,	for	a	count	of	1,	2,	3,	4	(3a).
•	Gently	rotate	the	hands	outwards	and	open	them	to	shoulder-
width	apart.	Maintain	your	head	position,	with	the	eyes
looking	straight	down,	and	continue	to	exhale	(5,	6)	(3b).
•	Relax	the	wrists	and	scoop	towards	the	torso.	Turn	the	feet
out	and	draw	the	heels	effortlessly	towards	the	seat	(7,	8)
(3c).
•	Extend	the	feet	out	and	away,	pushing	the	water	with	the
whole	of	the	feet.	Close	the	legs	(9)	and	lengthen	the	arms
forward	and	down	into	the	water	(10)	(3d).
Remember
	Perform	a	pulling	action	with	the	arms,	followed	by
a	push	from	the	legs.	It	is	easier	to	coordinate	the	two	if	you
move	slowly.

Avoid
	Do	not	execute	arm	and	leg	actions	at	the	same	time,
apply	too	much	effort	with	the	arms	or	legs,	or	lift	the	head	to
inhale.
4.	Rolling	the	head
The	Alexander	Technique	emphasizes	the	importance	of	a	free
neck	and	the	dangers	of	forcefully	pulling	the	head	back.	This	is
sometimes	misinterpreted	as	meaning	that	there	is	a	correct
position	in	which	to	hold	the	head.	A	free	neck	allows	you	to
move	the	head	from	side	to	side	and	up	and	down,	not	to	hold
it	in	a	fixed	position.	The	ability	to	nod	freely	is	vital	in
achieving	an	effective	breathing	position	in	breaststroke.	Locate

achieving	an	effective	breathing	position	in	breaststroke.	Locate
your	so-called	‘nodding’	joint	before	you	do	this	practice.	Place
the	tips	of	your	fore-fingers	just	beneath	your	ears	and	gently
nod	your	head,	notice	that	your	fingers	do	not	move.
•	Standing	with	feet	together	and	arms	by	your	sides,	tilt
forward	and	inhale	lightly	(4a).
•	Look	down	at	floor,	lengthening	the	neck	and	gently	breath
out	to	the	count	of	1,	2,	3.
•	Roll	the	head	so	that	the	eyes	are	raised,	continuing	to	exhale
(count	4,	5)	(4b).
•	Raise	the	chin	in	line	with	the	shoulders	and	allow	air	to	come
in	through	the	mouth	(6,	7).
•	Bow	the	head,	allowing	the	forehead	to	lead	the	movement
(8,	9)	and	begin	to	exhale	(4a).	Repeat	this	series	of
movements	a	number	of	times	until	the	nodding	joint	feels
free.
•	It	is	beneficial	to	perform	this	practice	on	dry	land	first,	and
then	in	the	pool	with	the	water	level	at	shoulder	height,	and
the	face	moving	in	and	out	of	the	water.

Remember
	Pivot	at	the	nodding	joint	(atlanto-occipital	joint),
ease	the	head	slowly	upward	then	move	it	back	down	more
quickly.
Avoid
	Do	not	lift	the	head	forcefully,	arch	the	back,	fix	the	hips,
push	air	out	vigorously	or	gasp.

5.	Walking	breaststroke
The	combination	of	the	stepping	practice	from	lesson	1	and	the
previous	nodding	practice	enables	you	to	integrate	the
breathing	pattern	with	the	stroke	before	having	to	negotiate	the
more	tricky	transition	between	water	and	air.
•	Breathe	in	lightly,	begin	to	exhale	and	step	forward	with	the
right	leg,	arms	extended,	head	angled	to	look	towards	the
floor	(count	1,	2,	3)	(5a).
•	With	your	weight	evenly	spread	on	both	feet,	raise	the	head,
looking	just	above	the	hands	and	continue	to	exhale	(count	4)

looking	just	above	the	hands	and	continue	to	exhale	(count	4)
(5b).
•	Maintain	this	head	position	and	gently	open	the	arms	(5,	6).
Watch	the	hands	open	and	continue	with	the	gentle
exhalation,	weight	still	evenly	spread	(5c).
•	Scoop	the	hands	inward	(5d)	and	rise	gradually	on	to	tiptoes,
shifting	your	weight	to	the	front	foot.	With	the	scooping
action,	allow	air	to	come	in	through	the	mouth	(7,	8).
•	Bow	the	head,	with	the	gaze	directed	towards	the	floor,	and
begin	to	exhale	(9).	Extend	the	arms	and	step	forward	with
the	left	leg;	continue	to	breathe	out	(10).
Remember
	The	head	movement	leads	the	arm	action;	inhale
passively	through	the	mouth
.

Avoid
	Do	not	pull	the	head	back,	gasp,	look	down	forcefully	or
step	as	the	arms	open.
6.	One	complete	stroke
This	practice	coordinates	all	the	elements	in	one	complete
stroke	cycle.	It	is	helpful	to	pause	at	the	end	of	each	cycle	to
focus	on	integrating	the	elements.
•	Inhale	lightly	and	drift	off	into	a	glide	with	the	eyes	looking
towards	the	floor	(count	1,	2,	3);	exhale	into	the	water	(6a).
•	Continue	to	exhale	as	the	head	rolls,	raising	the	eyes	to	look
just	above	the	hands	(4).	The	nose	and	mouth	remain
submerged.
•	Widen	the	back	and	open	the	hands	(5,	6),	still	breathing	out
gently.
•	Gently	draw	the	feet	drawn	towards	the	seat,	raise	the	head
to	bring	the	nose	and	mouth	clear	of	the	water	(8);	open	the

to	bring	the	nose	and	mouth	clear	of	the	water	(8);	open	the
mouth	and	allow	the	air	in	(6b).
•	Bow	the	head	into	the	water	(9)	and	start	to	exhale	(6c).
•	Extend	the	legs	as	the	arms	reach	forward	and	down	into	the
water	(10).	Close	the	legs,	maintain	a	glide	for	four	beats	and
regain	your	feet.
Remember
	Roll	the	neck	before	opening	the	arms.	A	minimal
movement	of	the	head	is	enough	to	inhale	comfortably.
Submerge	the	face	before	thrusting	the	legs.
Avoid
	Do	not	lift	the	head	and	shoulders	too	high	(the	chin
should	be	at	the	surface	on	inhalation).	Do	not	breathe	in
forcefully	or	break	into	a	second	stroke.
7.	Two	complete	strokes
By	producing	the	action	a	second	time,	you	gain	more
awareness	of	the	breathing	process.	You	also	experience	the
wave-like	motion	that	smoothly	connects	one	stroke	with	the
next.
•	Inhale	lightly	and	breathe	out	gently	into	a	glide.	Roll	the
head	to	raise	the	eyes,	open	the	hands,	scoop	with	the	arms
as	the	pelvis	drops	with	the	frog	action	of	the	feet,	and	inhale
gently.
•	In	a	continuous	movement,	bow	the	head,	thrust	and	close
the	legs	as	the	arms	extend	(propels	the	body	forward	and
down).
•	Feel	the	natural	wave-like	undulation,	allowing	the	water	to
lift	you	before	rolling	the	head	and	commencing	the	second

lift	you	before	rolling	the	head	and	commencing	the	second
stroke.
•	Perform	one	more	full	stroke,	ending	up	in	a	long	glide,	and
regain	the	feet.
Remember
	Inhale	towards	the	end	of	the	scoop.	One	stroke
flows	into	the	next	with	head	and	hips	working	in	concert.
Avoid
	Do	not	disturb	the	head-neck-back	relationship,	exhale
forcefully,	tense	the	pelvis	and	lower	back,	or	lift	the	head	too
high	out	of	the	water	to	inhale.
8.	Continuous	full	stroke
Here	are	some	helpful	points	to	remember	when	swimming
continuously.	Think	of	the	breaststroke	as	a	series	of	glides
punctuated	by	a	stroke;	the	objective	is	to	flow	from	one	glide
to	the	next.	When	you	perform	the	full	stroke	it	is	not	advisable
to	focus	on	individual	elements	of	it.	These	are	better	perfected
in	the	separate	practices	–	here	your	attention	should	be	on	the
movement	as	a	whole.
Body	orientation:
	In	the	horizontal	plane,	achieve	a	stable,
balanced	glide	with	the	neck	free	and	the	arms	directed	down.
In	the	breathing	position,	ensure	that	the	lower	back	is	released
with	the	eyes	looking	straight	ahead,	not	upward.
Timing:
	The	propulsive	action	of	the	arms	in	the	first	part	of
the	action	leads	you	to	elevate	and	inhale,	and	the	thrust	of	the
legs	in	the	second	part	of	the	stroke	leads	you	to	breathe	out	as
the	body	is	propelled	forward	and	down.
Breathing:
	Pay	attention	to	the	quality	of	the	out-breath,
making	sure	it	is	gentle	and	continuous;	allow	the	in-breath	to
happen	by	itself.	The	inhalation	only	takes	a	split	second,
whereas	with	your	face	in	the	water	the	out-breath	is	much
longer.
Remember
	Move	from	one	stroke	to	the	next	in	a	consistent
and	coordinated	manner,	enjoying	the	sense	of	non-doing	in	the

glide.
Avoid
	Do	not	push	air	out	forcefully.	Instead	of	trying	to	empty
your	lungs,	deliberately	retain	some	oxygen	to	make	it	easier	to
float	to	the	surface	for	the	next	inhalation.
One	complete	stroke
1.	Angle	the	arms	downwards,	lengthen	and	widen	the	back,
breathe	out	gently	and	look	at	the	floor.
2.	Tilt	the	head	with	the	eyes	leading,	release	the	hips,	open
the	arms	just	beyond	shoulder	width	with	elbows	slightly	bent.
3.	Scoop	the	arms,	release	the	legs	and	gently	draw	the	feet
towards	the	posterior	and	passively	inhale.
4.	Bow	the	head,	thrust	with	the	legs,	extend	the	arms,	and
exhale.

	
Throughout	the	book,	the	words	‘backstroke’	and	‘back	crawl’
are	used	interchangeably	to	refer	to	the	same	stroke.
People	have	swum	on	their	back	since	the	earliest	times:
both	the	Romans	and	Greeks	enjoyed	a	form	of	backstroke.	The
origins	of	today’s	backstroke	include	the	elementary
backstroke,	which	involved	an	overarm	recovery	and	a
breaststroke	leg	action.	This	inverted	form	of	breastroke	was
very	popular	in	Europe	in	the	eighteenth	and	nineteenth
centuries,	and	is	sometimes	referred	to	as	Old	English
backstroke.
It	was	not	until	the	twentieth	century	that	modern-day	back
crawl	was	invented.	In	the	1912	Olympics,	Harry	Hebner
shocked	the	world	when	he	unveiled	this	revolutionary	way	of
swimming	on	the	back	and	beat	his	rivals	by	more	than	three
seconds.
The	modern	back	crawl,	which	has	an	alternating	overarm
action	and	up	and	down	leg	action,	resembles	an	upside-down
front	crawl.	Unlike	its	predecessor,	it	is	an	upper-body-
dominant	stroke,	with	most	of	the	propulsion	being	generated
by	the	strong	wing-like	muscles	of	the	upper	back	under	each
arm.
At	no	point	during	an	effective	backstroke	is	it	necessary	to
submerse	the	face,	and	for	this	reason	it	helps	to	build
confidence	in	the	water	for	the	less	experienced.	The	head	and
spine	remain	centred,	with	the	head	fully	supported	by	the
water,	while	the	hips	and	shoulders	rotate	rhythmically,
encouraging	free-flowing	mobility	of	the	hip	and	shoulder	joints.
Success	in	backstroke	can	best	be	achieved	by	blending	the
three	Rs:	relaxation,	rhythm	and	rotation.
Shaw	Method	key	features
Orientation
	The	body	rotates	to	the	side,	with	the	hips	and
shoulders	rolling	around	a	central	axis	–	the	spine.	There	is	a
strong	sense	of	leading	with	the	head,	with	the	emphasis	on

maintaining	stillness	through	releasing	the	neck,	rather	than
holding	the	head	still.
Arm	action
	One	arm	remains	extended	as	the	second	elevates
(not	like	a	windmill).	The	emphasis	is	on	the	thumb	leading	the
arm	recovery	and	the	little	finger	entering	the	water	first.	The
extended	arm	leads	and	assists	balance	and	stability.
Leg	action
	The	pace	of	the	leg	action	is	steady,	with	emphasis
on	the	forward	and	upward	action.	The	legs	are	extended	while
keeping	the	ankles	loose	throughout.
Rhythm
	There	are	four	to	six	leg	beats	to	every	arm	cycle.	The
recovery	and	anchoring	phases	are	slow,	with	an	acceleration
occurring	as	one	arm	pushes	back	and	the	other	enters	the
water.
Benefits
Swimming	on	your	back	benefits	postural	awareness,	promoting
a	sense	of	lengthening	and	widening.	As	the	weight	of	the	head
is	fully	supported	by	the	water,	the	neck	can	release	easily.
Backstroke	strengthens	the	back,	tones	the	legs	and	arms
without	putting	strain	on	the	spine,	and	increases	hip	and
shoulder	mobility.	Many	enjoy	a	feeling	of	expansion	along	the
sides	of	the	body,	which	results	from	the	rotational	movements.
These	rotations	provide	a	good	base	for	developing	an	efficient
front	crawl.	The	backcrawl	arm	action	also	complements	the
forward	motion	of	frontcrawl
Risks	and	common	mistakes
Alignment
1.	Lifting	the	head	unduly	causes	strain	and	increases	drag,
while	letting	it	fall	backwards	can	give	rise	to	the	inhalation	of
water.
2.	If	a	swimmer	does	not	rotate	the	hips	sufficiently,	shoulder
mobility	is	reduced,	causing	strain	and	potential	injury.
Timing

Timing
1.	The	common	pattern	of	moving	both	arms	at	the	same	time
reduces	purchase	on	the	water	and	is	a	hard	habit	to	break.
2.	The	breathing	pattern	is	less	obvious	than	in	the	other
strokes,	and	despite	the	fact	that	the	face	is	out	of	the	water,
many	people	have	difficulty	coordinating	their	breathing.
Propulsion
1.	Failure	to	release	the	upper	arm	before	attempting	to	hold
the	water	can	cause	a	serious	injury	to	the	rotator	cuff	(see
glossary).
2.	In	walking,	we	are	so	used	to	leading	with	the	knees	that	it	is
challenging	to	maintain	the	length	of	the	leg	as	it	presses
upwards.
LESSON	1:	ORIENTATION	AND	LEG	ACTION
When	swimming	on	their	back,	many	people	enjoy	being
supported	by	the	water,	while	others	feel	a	lack	of	control.	Any
feelings	of	uncertainty	are	compounded	by	not	being	able	to	see
ahead.	This	also	makes	practice	more	difficult	and	increases	the
risk	of	injury	through	collision.	This	danger	is	reduced	with	the
Shaw	Method	as	the	lead	arm	is	extended	for	longer	periods,
leaving	the	head	less	exposed.
In	the	Shaw	Method	backstroke,	the	body	is	on	a	slight
incline,	with	the	head	a	few	inches	higher	than	the	hips.	This
small	deviation	from	the	horizontal	prevents	the	legs	from
breaking	the	surface.	The	crown	of	the	head	remains	in	the
water	throughout;	lifting	it	would	cause	the	hips	to	sink	further,
thereby	increasing	drag.	To	let	the	head	fall	backwards	would
arch	the	back	and	reduce	the	ability	to	gain	propulsion	from	the
legs.	As	was	discussed	earlier,	body	rotation	is	vital,	reducing
resistance	and	maximizing	reach.	The	following	simple	practice
highlights	the	relationship	between	rotation	and	the	movement
of	the	arm	in	backstroke.
•	Stand	up	for	a	moment	and	step	straight	back	with	your	right

•	Stand	up	for	a	moment	and	step	straight	back	with	your	right
foot	as	you	simultaneously	extend	your	right	arm	behind	you.
Notice	how	far	the	arm	extends	and	be	aware	of	your
shoulder	joint	(photo	X).
•	Now	repeat	the	practice,	only	this	time	rotate	your	right	hip
and	turn	the	foot	to	90°.	See	how	much	further	the	arm
extends	without	causing	any	shoulder	strain	(photo	Y).
People	float	on	their	back	to	varying	degrees	and	the	main
objective	of	this	lesson	is	to	find	your	optimum	point	of	balance.
The	head	is	buoyant,	regardless	of	the	way	the	rest	of	your
body	floats,	so	explore	allowing	your	neck	to	be	free	so	that	the
head	is	fully	supported	by	the	water.	The	other	objective	is	to
learn	to	rotate	the	torso	without	disturbing	the	finely	balanced
head-neck-back	relationship.
Leg	action
The	leg	action	in	back	crawl	is	primarily	for	balance	and
stability.	This	movement	is	generally	seen	as	originating	from
the	hips;	however	in	the	Shaw	Method,	the	movement	of	the
legs	originates	from	the	lower	back.	It	is	important	to	release
the	lower	back	if	the	hips	are	to	function	freely.

the	lower	back	if	the	hips	are	to	function	freely.
Although	the	arms	are	dominant	in	back	crawl,	the	legs	still
have	two	important	functions:	they	stabilize	the	body,	providing
rhythm,	and	contribute	significantly	to	forward	momentum,
generating	around	35	per	cent	of	overall	propulsion.	In	the
Shaw	Method,	the	alternating	action	of	the	legs	is	described	as
a	‘leg	press’	(which	conveys	their	true	function	of	maximizing
resistance)	rather	than	‘leg	kick’	(which	implies	a	more	forceful,
less	considered	movement).
The	leg	bends	slightly	at	the	beginning	of	the	action	and
then	lengthens	as	it	accelerates	upward	towards	the	surface.
Turning	the	feet	slightly	inward	promotes	flexibility	in	the
ankles	and	improves	the	effectiveness	of	the	leg	action,	giving
greater	purchase	on	the	water.
1.	Seated	leg	press
On	the	poolside	you	can	begin	to	explore	the	backstroke	leg
action	and	discover	when	to	release	and	when	to	apply	effort.
Observe	and	
feel	the	effectiveness	of	moving	from	the	hips	as
opposed	to	the	knees.
•	Sit	on	the	poolside	with	your	eyes	looking	ahead.	Straighten
the	legs	and	angle	them	down	into	the	water.	Place	your
hands	behind	you	as	a	support	and	slightly	raise	yourself,
shifting	your	weight	forward.
•	Release	the	left	leg	so	that	it	is	a	few	inches	lower	than	the
right,	then	bend	the	knee	slightly	so	the	foot	drops	a	little
further	(1a).
•	Straighten	the	left	leg,	moving	the	thigh	first,	and	with	toes
pointed,	actively	raise	the	foot	to	the	surface.	The	right	leg
should	simultaneously	drop	a	few	inches.
•	Bend	the	right	knee	slightly	so	that	the	foot	drops	a	little
further.	Then	actively	lift	and	extend	the	right	leg	as	for	the
left.
•	Continue	the	sequence	for	a	minute	or	two,	notice	how	this
action	works	the	stomach	muscles	as	well	as	the	legs.
•	Contrast	this	action	with	one	where	you	bend	the	knees	to

•	Contrast	this	action	with	one	where	you	bend	the	knees	to
perform	a	cycling	action:	notice	how	much	less	resistance	is
generated.
Remember
	Make	flowing	movements,	free	the	ankles,	and
point	the	toes.	Allow	the	legs	to	lengthen.
Avoid
	Do	not	over-bend	the	knees,	arch	or	twist	the	back,	or
poke	the	chin	forward.
2.	Leg	action	–	standing
In	an	upright	stance	it	is	easier	to	notice	how	the	leg	action	is
affected	by	your	alignment.	On	the	backward	release	the
objective	is	to	reduce	resistance	and	during	the	forward
movement	the	objective	is	to	maximize	it.
•	Stand	in	shallow	water	by	the	side	of	the	pool	or	on	a	step.
Place	the	left	hand	on	the	edge	of	the	pool	to	steady	yourself;
the	right	arm	hangs	freely.
•	Stand	tall,	on	tiptoes,	and	shift	your	weight	on	to	the	left	leg.

•	Stand	tall,	on	tiptoes,	and	shift	your	weight	on	to	the	left	leg.
Eyes	at	eye	level.
•	Remaining	upright	release	the	whole	of	the	right	leg	back
from	the	hip	joint	and	slightly	bend	the	knee	(2a).
•	Extend	the	right	leg	forward,	pointing	the	toes	and
straightening	the	knee.	Notice	the	resistance	of	the	water	as
you	press	the	right	leg	forward	until	it	is	slightly	in	front	of	the
stationary	one	(2b).
•	Repeat	this	action	at	least	ten	times	before	turning	around
and	performing	the	action	with	the	left	leg.
Remember
	Maintain	an	upright	stance	and	move	the	leg	as	a
whole,	the	power	being	generated	through	the	back	and	hips.
Avoid
	Do	not	actively	bring	the	leg	back,	arch	the	back,	lock
the	hip	or	knee,	or	flex	the	foot	instead	of	pointing	it.


3.	Leg	action	–	swimming
This	practice	builds	on	the	previous	one,	with	the	legs	propelling
the	body.	In	a	stable,	balanced	position,	explore	how	the
extended	upward	beat	of	the	legs	generates	forward
momentum.
•	Maintaining	good	alignment,	lower	yourself	in	the	water	–	as	if
to	sit	in	a	low	chair	–	until	the	shoulders	are	submerged.
•	Slowly	lean	backwards	without	poking	the	chin	forward	and
gradually	glide	on	to	the	back.	Keep	your	hands	by	your	side,
shoulders	relaxed,	body	on	a	slight	incline	with	head	higher
than	hips,	and	legs	straight	with	the	toes	pointed.
•	Release	the	right	leg,	allowing	it	to	drop	a	little.	Moving	the
left	thigh,	press	upward	with	the	whole	leg.	Force	is	generated
through	the	hips,	knees	and	ankles	(3a).
•	Notice	that	as	one	leg	directs	upward,	the	other	automatically
tends	to	release	downward.	Contrast	the	letting	go	phase	with
the	more	active	upward	movements.
•	Lift	the	legs	alternately	and	continue	for	a	few	minutes.	Notice
how	releasing	the	neck	gives	you	greater	control	of	this

how	releasing	the	neck	gives	you	greater	control	of	this
movement.	Regain	the	feet.
Remember
	Lengthen	the	legs	as	if	to	lift	the	water	upwards.
The	downward	movement	is	a	gentle	release.
Avoid
	Do	not	rush,	lead	with	the	knee	or	bring	the	foot	out	of
the	water.	Do	not	move	your	head	from	side	to	side.
4.	Sidestepping
The	ability	to	rotate	on	to	the	side	is	fundamental	to
backstroke.	Initially,	most	people	find	this	orientation
challenging,	due	to	a	lack	of	experience	in	moving	side-on.	This
practice	familiarizes	you	with	this	new	sensation,	providing	an
experience	of	moving	through	water	in	a	streamlined	way.
•	Stand	tall	with	body	rotated	to	the	left,	head	centred	and	eyes
front.	Both	hands	should	be	resting	by	your	sides	with	heels
together	in	L-shape	(4a).
•	With	the	body	still	rotated	to	the	side	take	a	small	step
backwards	with	your	left	foot,	and	simultaneously	extend	the
left	arm.	Maintain	the	position	of	the	head.	(4b).
•	Take	a	further	five	or	six	steps	before	changing	to	the	other
side.	Many	people	feel	more	at	ease	on	one	side;	it	is	a	good
idea	to	practise	more	on	the	less	familiar	side.
Remember
	Take	small	steps	and	maintain	balance	through
good	contact	with	the	floor.
Avoid
	Do	not	move	the	head	up	or	down	or	from	side	to	side,
hunching	the	shoulders.

5.	Legs	to	the	side
The	benefits	of	streamlining	are	immediately	apparent	in	this
practice,	although	it	is	more	difficult	to	balance.	The	inherent
lack	of	stability	in	the	practice	makes	it	even	more	important	to
achieve	and	maintain	a	good	head-neck-back	relationship.
•	The	eyes	face	away	from	the	direction	of	travel.	Step
backwards	with	your	left	foot	and	rotate	your	leg	and	torso
outwards	(5a).
•	Bend	the	left	knee,	lowering	the	head	and	shoulders	towards
the	surface;	arms	rest	by	your	sides.	Tilt	the	body	so	that	the
right	hip	and	shoulder	are	uppermost.
•	Directing	with	the	head,	lean	gradually	into	the	water	and
drift	on	to	your	left	side	with	arms	alongside	the	body.	Look
straight	up.
•	With	your	head	supported	by	the	water	and	your	body	on	its
side,	perform	the	leg	action,	actively	directing	the	legs	to	the
right	for	six	beats	(5b).
•	Roll	to	a	flat	position	on	the	back,	centre	yourself	in	neutral
and	regain	the	feet.	Repeat	on	the	other	side,	noting	any
differences.
Remember
	Keep	your	neck	free,	breathing	easy,	hips	and
shoulders	relaxed,	and	legs	long.
Avoid
	Do	not	change	the	head	position,	kick	backwards	or	lead
with	the	knee.

6.	Centre	to	side	rotation
Learn	to	rotate	the	body	without	turning	the	head.	Most	people
automatically	turn	their	heads	in	tune	with	the	rotation.	Freeing
the	neck	is	key	to	a	stable	head	position.
•	With	shoulders	parallel	and	hands	resting	by	your	sides,
perform	six	leg	beats	(6a).
•	Pause	the	leg	action	and	momentarily	direct	your	gaze
upwards.	Using	the	hips	and	shoulder,	rotate	on	to	your	right
side	(6b).
•	Continue	to	move	the	legs	for	a	further	six	beats	and	regain

•	Continue	to	move	the	legs	for	a	further	six	beats	and	regain
the	feet.
•	Perform	the	same	series	of	movements	rotating	to	the	left.
•	Notice	any	differences	in	terms	of	ability	to	balance	and	level
of	propulsion.
Remember
	Make	a	smooth	transition	from	side	to	centre,
hands	and	shoulders	relaxed.
Avoid
	Do	not	allow	the	head	to	deviate	from	the	centre-line	as
the	body	rotates.	Do	not	lead	the	leg	action	with	the	knee
(bicycling).
7.	Arm	extended
The	objective	is	to	let	the	arm	grow	out	from	the	back	rather
than	simply	stretch	it.	Discover	how	your	overall	alignment	is
influenced	by	the	direction	of	the	arm,	for	example	if	it	veers	to
the	right,	the	body	tends	to	follow.
•	Standing	side	on,	step	in	the	direction	of	travel	with	your	left
leg,	and	extend	your	left	arm.	Bend	the	knees	and	gently
lower	yourself	in	the	water.

•	Leading	with	the	crown,	lean	into	the	water	and	drift	on	to
your	side	with	your	gaze	directed	up,	and	the	lead	arm
directed	forward	and	angled	slightly	down	(7a).
•	The	resting	arm	remains	close	to	your	side	as	if	it	is	placed
deeply	in	a	front	pocket	(7b).
•	Maintaining	a	sideways	orientation,	perform	ten	leg	beats.
•	Draw	the	lead	arm	to	your	hip,	roll	your	body	to	the	centre
and	regain	your	feet	(7c).
Remember
	Think	about	the	arm	being	connected	to	the	back

as	an	aid	to	your	sense	of	balance	and	stability.
Avoid
	Do	not	let	the	second	arm	drift	away	from	your	side,	as
it	causes	over-rotation.
LESSON	2:	ARM	ACTION
Although	back	crawl	is	often	considered	an	arm-dominant
stroke,	it	is	not	actually	the	arm	muscles	that	generate	most	of
the	propulsion.	The	arms	operate	as	levers	connected	to	the
powerful	wing-like	muscles	of	the	upper	back,	which	provide
most	of	the	momentum	for	driving	the	body	forward.
The	arm	action	consists	of	four	phases:	extension,	anchor,
propulsive,	and	recovery.	An	efficient	backstroke	arm	action
requires	the	swimmer	to	understand	when	to	apply	effort	and
when	to	release	and	conserve	energy.	Most	of	the	effort	needs
to	be	concentrated	on	the	dynamic	holding	phase,	with	the
extension,	hooking	and	recovery	phases	being	significantly	less
strenuous.
1.	Single-arm	stepping
By	isolating	one	arm	at	a	time,	you	can	focus	on	the	details	of
each	phase	and	connect	them	with	the	rotational	movements	of
the	torso.	It	is	useful	to	perform	it	on	dry	land	as	well	as	in	the
pool.
•	
Extension	phase
	Take	a	single	step	backwards	with	the	left
leg,	turning	the	foot	out	as	you	rotate	the	body.
Simultaneously	extend	the	left	arm	and	direct	it	down.	Ensure
that	the	hand	remains	soft	and	is	positioned	to	the	left	of	the
shoulder	(1a).
•	
Anchor	phase
	Still	standing	with	the	right	foot	leading,	bend
the	left	elbow	and	direct	the	upper	arm	away	from	the
shoulder	as	you	move	up	on	to	tiptoes	with	the	right	foot
(1b).	Centre	the	hips	and	shoulders.

•	
Propulsive	phase
	With	your	left	arm	parallel	to	your	left
shoulder,	press	it	towards	the	left	hip	as	you	step	backward

and	rotate	to	your	right.	Ensure	that	you	leave	the	right	arm
alone.
•	
Recovery	phase
	Elevate	the	left	arm,	leading	with	the
thumb,	until	it	is	parallel	with	your	left	shoulder;	bend	the	left
knee	and	centre	hips	and	shoulders	(1c).
•	
Turn	and	rotate	recovery
	Turn	the	hand	so	that	the	little
finger	leads	as	you	continue	to	make	an	180°	arc	with	the	left
hand,	ending	up	at	its	start	position	(extension	phase).
Simultaneously	step	backwards	with	the	left	leg	and	rotate
the	torso	to	the	left	(1d).
•	Repeat	the	entire	sequence	six	times	and	then	perform	it	with
the	right	arm.
Remember
	The	arm	should	float	lightly	through	the	air.	Make
smooth,	continuous	movements	of	the	arms,	hips	and
shoulders.
Avoid
	Do	not	bend	the	elbow	during	the	recovery,	turn	and
rotate	phases.	Do	not	cross	the	mid-line,	move	the	head	or
tense	the	lead	arm.
2.	Single-arm	backstroke
Like	the	previous	practice,	the	single-arm	backstroke	brings	the
focus	on	to	the	separate	phases	of	the	arm	action,	in	reference
to	the	movement	of	the	rest	of	the	body.
You	may	be	surprised	to	learn	that	it	is	possible	to	steer	a
straight	course	with	one	arm,	as	long	as	the	angle	of	the	arm
during	the	propulsive	phase	is	correct.
•	
Extension
	Launch	off	with	the	body	rotated	and	right	arm
extended	in	the	direction	of	travel.	Look	upward	as	you	start
the	leg	action.	The	left	arm	rests	by	your	side	throughout
(2a).
•	
Anchor
	Bend	the	right	elbow	to	90°	and	flex	the	wrist	as	you
direct	the	upper	arm	away	from	the	shoulder.	Simultaneously
turn	from	your	side	to	the	centre	by	rotating	the	hips	and
shoulders	(2b).

•	
Dynamic
	Press	the	right	arm	in	an	outward	arc	and	then
inward	towards	the	right	hip,	as	the	body	rotates	on	to	the
left	side.	Accelerate	the	legs	at	this	point	(2c).
•	
Recovery
	Without	pausing,	continue	to	flow	into	the
recovery,	exiting	the	water	with	the	thumb	and	entering	with
the	little	finger	as	you	rotate	back	to	the	right	side	(2d).
Repeat	the	whole	sequence	with	the	left	arm.
Remember
	Keep	the	head	still	by	freeing	the	neck.	Apply	force
in	the	pull-push	phase.	Make	the	rotations	smooth	and	flowing.
Avoid
	Do	not	contract	the	arm	in	the	hooking	phase,	bend	the
arm	or	cross	the	mid-line	during	the	recovery.
3.	Floating	arm	–	standing	(land	or	water)
This	practice	establishes	the	relationship	and	timing	between
the	arms.	It	counters	the	common	pattern	in	which	both	arms
are	moved	simultaneously	like	a	windmill.

are	moved	simultaneously	like	a	windmill.
•	Starting	in	neutral,	step	back,	extend	the	left	leg	and	arm,
and	lean	slightly	in	the	direction	of	travel.
•	
Recovery
	Leading	with	the	thumb,	slowly	raise	your	right
arm	until	it	is	level	with	the	shoulder	whilst	maintaining	the
length	and	direction	of	the	left	arm.
•	In	order	to	remain	balanced	as	the	right	arm	lifts,	extend	the
left	arm	away	in	a	downward	direction.
•	Repeat	the	practice	on	the	other	side,	noting	any	differences.
Remember
	Imagine	that	the	right	arm	is	growing	out	from	the
back	as	it	floats	up.	Maintain	primary	control.
Avoid
	Do	not	lift	the	shoulders,	or	shorten	the	leading	arm	as
the	other	arm	is	raised.
4:	Floating	arm	–	swimming
This	practice,	which	corresponds	to	the	first	part	of	the	recovery
in	full-stroke	backstroke,	cultivates	balance	and	control.	It
strongly	encourages	you	to	make	the	lifting	phase	light	and	to
lengthen	the	lead	arm.	Lifting	the	arm	with	too	much	effort,	or
a	lack	of	direction	with	the	lead	arm,	will	tend	to	push	your
body	down.
•	Gently	lower	yourself	into	the	water	with	the	body	rotated	to
the	left	and	the	left	arm	extended.
•	Allowing	the	head	to	be	supported	by	the	water,	launch	off	on
your	side	with	the	left	arm	extended	and	directed	slightly
down.	Keep	the	right	arm	relaxed	and	close	to	the	right	thigh.
Start	a	steady,	continuous	leg	action	with	the	feet	close
together	(4a).
•	After	ten	leg	beats	leading	with	the	thumb,	begin	to	elevate
the	right	hand	slowly	and	gently	as	you	consciously	extend
the	left	arm,	until	the	right	hand	approaches	vertical	above
the	shoulder	(4b).	(Those	who	float	lower	in	the	water	may
find	it	necessary	to	perform	a	vigorous	leg	action	at	the	point
when	the	arm	exits	the	water.)	•	After	a	further	ten	leg	beats,

when	the	arm	exits	the	water.)	•	After	a	further	ten	leg	beats,
release	the	right	arm	and	place	the	right	hand	back	alongside
the	thigh.	Repeat	the	whole	sequence	once	again,	using	the
left	arm.
Remember
	The	raised	arm	is	connected	with	the	upper	back.
Keep	the	leg	action	long	and	loose.
Avoid
	Do	not	pull	the	head	back	and	shorten	the	lead	arm	as
the	second	is	raised.
LESSON	3:	INTEGRATION
As	was	mentioned	in	the	overview,	one	of	the	most	significant
differences	between	the	way	that	most	people	swim	the
backstroke	and	the	Shaw	Method,	relates	to	the	timing	of	the
arm	action.	The	relationship	between	one	arm	and	the	other
includes	a	pause	of	the	extended	arm	until	the	second	arm	has
exited	the	water.	This	timing	enables	the	swimmer	to	achieve	a
good	purchase	on	the	water	and	to	maximize	the	benefit	of
each	propulsive	action	by	swiftly	moving	into	the	most
streamlined	position.
Because	the	face	is	continuously	out	of	the	water,	breathing
is	often	overlooked.	In	the	full	stroke,	it	is	important	to
coordinate	breathing	with	the	movement	of	the	arms.	I	suggest

coordinate	breathing	with	the	movement	of	the	arms.	I	suggest
that	you	inhale	on	the	first	part	of	the	recovery,	as	the	thumb
leads	the	arm	up	to	90°,	and	exhale	as	it	descends.	This	is	a
healthy,	comfortable	breathing	pattern,	but	if	at	first	it	is	too
challenging,	forget	about	it	for	the	time	being	and	return	to	it	at
a	later	stage.
1.	Full	arm	sequence	–	stepping
Despite	the	fact	that	you	are	standing	up	rather	than	on	your
back,	this	practice	can	give	you	a	very	similar	feeling	to
swimming	full-stroke	backstroke.	This	practice	should	be
performed	on	dry	land	first	and	then	in	water.
•	Stand	looking	straight	ahead,	feet	apart,	body	rotated	to	the
left,	with	your	left	arm	extended	(1a).	Elevate	the	right	arm,
with	the	thumb	leading,	until	it	is	level	with	the	shoulder	(1b).
•	Release	the	left	elbow	and	direct	it	away	from	the	shoulder	as
you	turn	the	torso	to	the	centre.	Shift	your	weight	to	the	left
leg	and	move	up	on	to	tiptoe	with	the	right	(1c).
•	Turn	the	right	palm	out	so	that	the	little	finger	leads	the	up-
and-over	action	as	the	left	arm	presses	against	the	water
(1d),	and	the	body	rotates	to	the	right	as	the	right	leg	steps
back	(1e).
•	Pause	for	the	count	of	six	and	then	repeat	this	complete
sequence	of	actions.
Remember
	Concentrate	on	flowing,	continuous	transitions,
stepping	only	as	the	arm	comes	up	and	over,	
i.e.
	maintain
primary	control.
Avoid
	Do	not	move	the	arms	simultaneously	(windmilling),	or
take	overly	large	steps	and	lose	your	balance.

2.	One	complete	cycle

2.	One	complete	cycle
Perform	only	one	complete	sequence,	to	focus	on	coordinating
the	arms,	legs	and	torso.
•	Step	back	and	out	with	the	left	foot,	extend	the	left	arm	(2a)
and	lower	yourself	into	a	glide	with	the	lead	arm	extended
and	the	right	arm	resting	on	your	hip.
•	Maintaining	the	length	and	direction	of	the	left	arm,	raise	the
right	arm,	leading	with	the	thumb,	until	vertical.
•	Release	the	elbow	and	wrist	of	the	left	arm	(2b),	whilst
maintaining	the	position	and	direction	of	the	right.
•	Press	against	the	water	with	the	left	arm	as	the	right	arm
extends	(2c)	and	the	body	rotates	on	to	the	side.	The	head
remains	still.
Remember
	Flow	from	one	movement	to	the	next	without
pausing;	exit	with	the	thumb	and	enter	with	the	little	finger.
Free	the	neck,	allowing	the	head	to	be	fully	supported	by	the
water.
Avoid
	Do	not	hold	your	breath,	try	to	push	before	you	bend	the
elbow,	or	windmill	with	the	arms.
3.	One	cycle	followed	by	six	leg	beats
This	practice	gives	you	the	opportunity	to	focus	on	your	balance
and	direction	and	reinforces	the	lessons	on	the	leg	action
covered	earlier.
The	downside	of	this	practice	is	that	the	lack	of	momentum
in	the	recovery,	due	to	the	pause	in	the	arm	cycle,	can	make
the	recovery	feel	a	bit	heavy.
•	Drift	on	to	your	back,	with	your	arms	by	your	sides.	Without
altering	the	position	of	the	head,	rotate	the	body	to	the	right
and	extend	the	right	arm	forward	under	the	water.
•	Raise	the	left	arm	to	90°,	maintaining	the	length	and	direction
of	the	right	arm.
•	Release	the	right	wrist	and	elbow	and	move	into	the	anchor

•	Release	the	right	wrist	and	elbow	and	move	into	the	anchor
phase.
•	Turn	the	left	arm,	and	hold	on	to	the	water	
with	the	right	arm
as	you	roll	on	to	your	left	side	and	extend	the	left	arm.
•	Maintain	this	position	for	six	leg	beats	before	raising	the	right
arm	and	repeating	the	sequence	with	the	left	arm	leading.
Remember
	Hold	the	water	with	the	right	arm	and	extend	with
the	left.	Focus	on	the	quality	of	the	leg	action	and	the	head-
neck-back	relationship	when	the	arms	are	pausing	during	the
legs-only	phase.
Avoid
	Do	not	move	the	arms	simultaneously,	hurry	the	arm	or
leg	action,	allow	the	arms	to	enter	too	close	to	the	head,	or
cross	the	mid-line	underwater.
4.	Walk	four,	swim	four
This	practice	combines	the	stepping	practice	you	did	at	the
beginning	of	this	lesson	with	four	continuous	strokes.	By
combining	walking	with	swimming,	it	establishes	the	rhythm
and	pace	of	the	stroke.	Avoid	the	mistake	of	many	of	my	pupils,
which	is	to	noticeably	increase	their	pace	when	they	move	from
the	stepping	part	to	the	swimming	part.
•	Perform	four	complete	steps,	with	the	complete	arm	action,	as
in	the	first	practice	of	this	section.
•	After	the	fourth	step,	lower	the	body	and	drift	off,	ensuring
that	the	lead	arm	is	fully	extended	and	the	head	is	centred.
•	Perform	four	complete	strokes,	as	in	the	previous	practice,
without	compromising	the	head-neck-back	relationship.
Regain	the	feet.
•	Stand	at	full	height	and	move	into	the	stepping	sequence,
repeat	both	elements	of	this	practice	until	the	tempo	of	the
walking	and	swimming	are	the	same.
Remember
	Flow	from	the	stepping	into	the	swimming,	with
smooth,	relaxed	movements.

Avoid
	Do	not	move	the	arms	simultaneously,	or	Increase	the
tempo	or	level	of	effort	in	the	swimming	phases.
5.	Integrating	the	legs	with	the	arms
This	practice	is	designed	to	help	you	match	the	rhythm	of	the
legs	with	the	pace	of	the	arms,	and	to	counter	the	tendency	to
over-kick	or	move	the	legs	too	rapidly.	The	rate	can	vary
between	two,	four	and	six	leg	beats	per	arm	cycle.
•	Lower	yourself	into	the	water	and	drift	off	with	your	head
supported	by	the	water	and	both	arms	resting	by	your	sides.
•	When	you	feel	stable,	start	the	leg	action.	Keep	the	legs	long
and	direct	them	in	an	upward	direction.
•	Rotate	the	body	to	the	side,	slide	the	right	arm	under	the
water,	pause	for	a	couple	of	seconds	and	then	start	the	arm
action.
Remember
	The	right	arm	and	left	leg	extend	simultaneously
and	vice	versa.	In	the	extension	phase,	notice	a	diagonal	line
running	from	the	big	toe	to	the	thumb	of	the	opposite	hand.
Avoid
	Do	not	arch	the	back,	lead	with	the	knee	or	rush	the	leg
action.
6.	Full	stroke	–	continuous	action
•	After	completing	all	the	previous	practices	you	are	ready	to
swim	the	full	stroke.	Instead	of	pausing	the	arm	action	at	the
end	of	every	cycle,	continue	in	a	flowing	action.	In	backstroke
the	face	is	permanently	out	of	the	water,	which	can	give	rise
to	an	irregular	breathing	pattern.	A	relaxed,	well-balanced
stroke	requires	steady,	consistent	breathing.	See	the	following
list	of	things	to	think	about	and	avoid.
Remember
	The	recovering	arm	leads	the	action.	Hips	and
shoulders	roll	around	a	constant	axis:	the	spine.	Maintain	a	still
head	by	freeing	the	neck.
Rotate	the	torso	so	that	when	the	left	arm	enters	the	water

the	right	hip	and	shoulder	are	on	top	and	vice	versa.
In	the	underwater	phase	of	the	arm	action,	remember	to
bend	the	arm	and	hold	the	water	rather	than	performing	a
windmill	when	the	arms	lose	their	grip	on	the	water.
Light	recoveries	help	you	maintain	a	good	body	position	and
easier	breathing	pattern.	Allow	inhalations	to	be	passive	and
soft.
Avoid
	Do	not	fix	the	neck	and	try	to	hold	the	head	still.	Do	not
move	both	arms	at	the	same	time.	Do	not	move	the	arms	or
legs	too	quickly,	or	move	the	arm	in	the	water	too	early	and/or
drop	it	too	deep.
If	you	are	of	average	height,	the	hand	should	never	be	lower
than	about	4	inches	(10cm)	below	the	surface.
One	complete	stroke
1.	Extend	one	arm	with	the	body	rotated,	neck	free.	The	leg
action	balances	body.
2.	Elevate	the	second	arm,	maintain	the	length	of	the	lead	arm
and	rotate	the	torso	to	the	centre.

3.	Bend	the	elbow	and	flex	the	wrist	of	the	lead	arm	as	second
arm	moves	towards	the	water	leading	with	the	little	finger.
4.	Hold	onto	the	water	with	the	lead	arm	as	the	recovering	arm
dynamically	extends	and	the	body	rotates	to	the	opposite	side.

	
A	forward-facing,	overarm	way	of	swimming	has	existed	since
the	earliest	times.	An	ancient	Egyptian	mural	(c.1200	
BC
)	clearly
depicts	soldiers	in	pursuit	of	their	enemy	using	a	crawl-like
swimming	action.	There	is	also	evidence	that	the	Greeks	and
Romans	swam	in	this	way.
The	term	‘front	crawl’	was	first	coined	in	Australia	in	1893,
when	a	swimming	coach	witnessed	a	young	boy	named	Alick
Wickham	speeding	through	the	water	using	a	stroke	that	he
had	never	seen	before	and	exclaimed,	“Look	at	that	kid	crawl.”
Alick	had	learnt	the	stroke	from	his	older	brother	who,	on	a	visit
to	the	Solomon	Islands,	had	observed	locals	performing	this
stroke.
This	crude	form	of	front	crawl	was	developed	and
popularized	by	two	Australian	brothers,	Syd	and	Charles	Cavill,
who	took	the	stroke	to	Europe	and	the	United	States	in	1902.	It
is	an	interesting	coincidence	that	F.	M.	Alexander	took	his
technique	from	Australia	to	England	around	the	same	time.	The
superior	speed	of	‘Australian	Crawl’,	as	it	was	dubbed,	caused
something	of	a	sensation.	Although	it	has	developed
significantly	over	the	last	century,	the	basic	principle	of
combining	an	alternate,	overarm	action	with	a	vertical	kick	in	a
prone	position	remains	the	same.	Front	crawl	is	a	front-wheel
drive	stroke,	with	the	arms	and	upper	body	providing	around	80
per	cent	of	overall	propulsion.
In	many	ways,	it	is	the	most	intuitive	of	strokes:	a	newborn
baby	will	instinctively	‘doggy	paddle’	in	a	form	of	underwater
front	crawl.	Swum	skilfully,	front	crawl	–	with	its	continuous
arm	action,	streamlined	body	position	and	above-water	arm
recovery	–	is	not	only	the	fastest	but	also	the	most	energy-
efficient	of	strokes.	For	this	reason,	it	is	generally	the	stroke	of
choice	for	those	keen	to	swim	quickly	or	cover	a	significant
distance.	English	Channel	swimmers,	as	well	as	triathletes,
invariably	choose	front	crawl.	In	freestyle	competitions,	any
stroke	is	allowed	but	due	to	its	relative	advantages	over	other
strokes,	almost	everyone	chooses	front	crawl.

The	easiest	of	strokes?
Front	crawl,	the	most	ergonomic	of	the	four	traditional	strokes,
has	many	advantages	and	despite	common	misconceptions,	it	is
not	difficult	to	learn.	The	frontal	position	allows	the	arms	a	full
range	of	movement.	Coordinating	the	arms	and	legs	is
relatively	straightforward.	The	overarm	recovery	reduces	drag,
in	contrast	to	the	underwater	recovery	of	breaststroke.
As	with	the	other	strokes,	front	crawl	can	do	more	harm
than	good	without	body	awareness	and	good	technique.	
It	is
not	the	stroke	you	swim,	but	the	way	that	you	swim	it
that	counts.
Shaw	Method	key	features
Alignment
	The	body	roll	in	front	crawl	is	vital,	with	hips	and
shoulders	rotating	around	a	central	axis.	The	eyes	look	slightly
ahead	when	the	face	is	immersed,	and	in	the	transition	between
water	and	air,	the	head	is	directed	forward	while	turning	to
breathe.
Arm	action
	Efficient	crawlers	spear	the	arm	down	into	the
water,	with	the	elbow	and	forearm	following	the	hand,	which
minimizes	
drag	and	maximizes	stroke	length.	A	bent	elbow
directs	forward	prior	to	the	propulsive	movement,	with	the
emphasis	on	holding	the	water,	not	on	pulling	back.	The	arm
recovery	is	long	and	light,	allowing	the	elbow	to	bend	as	a
result	of	gravity.
Leg	action
	The	pace	of	the	leg	action	is	steady	and	even,	with
the	emphasis	on	letting	go	before	driving	the	leg	forward,
keeping	the	ankles	mobile	throughout.
Timing
	The	extended	arm	remains	straight	until	your
recovering	arm	begins	to	enter	the	water.	There	are	two	leg
beats	to	every	arm	cycle	unless	you	are	sprinting.
Benefits
Front	crawl	has	many	health	benefits.	It	strengthens	the	back,
tones	the	arms	and	legs,	increases	the	mobility	of	the	shoulders

tones	the	arms	and	legs,	increases	the	mobility	of	the	shoulders
and	hips	as	well	as	improving	cardiovascular	fitness.	There	is
evidence	that	the	alternating	action	of	the	left	and	right	side	of
the	body	balances	the	opposite	hemispheres	of	the	brain.
Risks	and	common	errors
Alignment
1.	Swimming	the	crawl	with	the	head	held	high	and	lifting	it	to
breathe	increases	drag	and	strains	the	neck	and	back.
2.	The	traditional	high	elbow	recovery	in	crawl	puts	undue
tension	on	the	shoulders,	which	can	lead	to	a	form	of	tendonitis
(see	glossary).
Timing
1.	Most	people	automatically	pull	their	extended	arm	back
whilst	the	recovering	arm	moves	through	the	air	(windmilling).
This	does	not	produce	an	effective	hold	on	the	water.
2.	Many	waste	a	great	deal	of	energy	by	moving	the	legs	too
quickly.	A	slower,	steadier	rhythm	is	more	appropriate	if	you
wish	to	swim	for	more	than	a	couple	of	lengths.
Propulsion
1.	Many	people	pull	their	arms	straight	back	in	the	water,	rather
than	bending	the	elbow	and	flexing	the	wrist	to	achieve	a	more
effective	anchor	before	applying	propulsive	force.
2.	The	common	practice	of	actively	kicking	the	legs	out	of	the
water,	employed	by	many	swimmers,	can	strain	and	injure	the
lower	back.
LESSON	1:	ORIENTATION	AND	LEGS
A	birds-eye	view	of	the	Shaw	Method	front	crawl,	disregarding
the	movement	of	the	limbs,	reveals	that	the	torso	rotates
rhythmically	from	the	centre	to	the	side	and	back	again.	These
changes	in	body	position	enable	a	swimmer	to	combine	the
benefits	of	an	effective	purchase	on	the	water	with	streamlining

changes	in	body	position	enable	a	swimmer	to	combine	the
benefits	of	an	effective	purchase	on	the	water	with	streamlining
in	a	way	that	promotes	freedom	of	movement	in	the	joints.
The	objective	of	this	lesson	is	to	feel	at	ease	in	the	various
positions	and	then	to	manoeuvre	comfortably	between	them.
Here	you	will	learn	to	employ	the	leg	action	and	hip	roll	to
balance	and	achieve	these	transitions	smoothly.	Throughout	the
horizontal	practices	in	this	lesson,	including	those	where	the
body	rotates,	the	head	remains	still	with	the	face	immersed.
Leg	action
The	leg	action	of	the	front	crawl	aids	buoyancy	and	balances
the	arm	action.	Many	front	crawlers	waste	energy	frantically
kicking	their	legs	up	and	down.	In	the	Shaw	Method,	the	legs’
main	function	is	to	provide	stability	and	rhythm,	although	they
do	produce	some	forward	momentum	(around	20	per	cent)
which	assists	the	all-important	body	rotations.
The	legs	alternate:	one	actively	presses	downwards	while	the
other	releases	upwards.	This	action	originates	in	the	lower	back
and	moves	through	the	hip,	followed	by	a	small	bend	of	the
knee,	which	then	straightens	as	the	whole	leg	travels
downwards.	The	ankles	remain	free	with	the	toes	pointed
throughout;	turning	the	legs	slightly	inward	(in-toeing)
produces	more	even	resistance.
Throughout	the	world,	floats	are	commonly	used	for
practising	the	leg	action.	They	are	not,	however,	used	in	the
Shaw	Method	as	they	compromise	alignment	and	can	put
pressure	on	the	neck	and	back.	They	also	create	an	artificial
body	position,	which	is	very	different	from	that	of	the	full
stroke.	It	is	preferable	to	direct	the	arms	into	the	water	and
work	with	your	own	level	of	buoyancy.	Perform	the	leg	action
practices	in	shallow	water	initially,	so	that	you	can	stand	up
comfortably	each	time	you	require	a	breath.
1.	Glide
For	all	the	strokes	that	involve	putting	the	face	in	the	water,	we

always	start	with	gliding	(1a)	and	the	leg	press.	Acclimatize	to
the	element	of	water,	slow	down,	and	work	on	your	breathing
and	head-neck-back	relationship.	For	a	complete	description	of
the	
forward	glide
,	see	Fun-da-mentals.	Gliding	is	not	only
beneficial	at	the	beginning	of	each	stroke	session,	it	is	also	a
useful	way	of	reconnecting	to	a	sense	of	stillness	and	being	able
to	let	go	when	working	through	intricate	or	challenging
practices.
2.	Leg	press
This	standing	practice	gives	you	a	good	sense	of	how	the
hip,	knee	and	ankle	joints	all	combine	in	an	effective	leg	action.
Moving	one	leg	at	time,	you	can	explore	the	sensation	of
consciously	releasing	the	leg	and	actively	pressing	it	forward.


Like	the	equivalent	practice	in	backstroke,	the	leg	press
works	on	the	relationship	between	alignment	and	the	quality	of
the	leg	action.	It	also	highlights	a	couple	of	significant
differences	in	the	range	of	motion:	in	front	crawl	the	knee
bends	less	in	the	non-propulsive	release	and	the	whole	leg
extends	further	forward	in	the	propulsive	movement.
•	Stand	tall	on	your	left	foot,	place	one	hand	on	the	side	to
stabilize	yourself	and	move	up	on	to	your	tiptoes.
•	Relax	the	right	ankle,	knee	and	hip,	and	release	the	leg
backwards,	so	that	the	upper	thigh	and	foot	are	behind	the
left	leg	(2a).
•	Extend	the	right	foot,	straighten	the	leg	without	locking	it	and
swing	the	whole	of	the	leg	forward	so	that	it	is	positioned	in
front	of	the	left	(2b).
•	The	movement	starts	in	the	hip	and	finishes	with	the	foot
pointing	at	an	angle	down	and	away	from	the	body.
•	Repeat	this	action	six	times	before	alternating	legs.
Remember
	Stand	tall	throughout.	On	the	back	swing,	maintain
the	length	of	the	leg	and	head-neck-back	relationship.	You

should	feel	minimal	resistance	on	the	backward	action	and
strong	resistance	on	the	forward	action.
Avoid
	Do	not	arch	the	back	when	you	release	the	leg
backwards.	Do	not	move	the	leg	too	wide	so	that	you	lose	your
balance,	or	move	the	head	up	or	down	or	from	side	to	side.
3.	Front	leg	action
By	translating	your	understanding	from	the	previous	practice
(of	when	to	release	and	when	to	apply	effort)	to	the	horizontal
plane,	discover	how	the	legs	generate	forward	momentum.
•	Step	forward	as	you	extend	both	arms	and	smoothly	drift	into
a	stable,	balanced	glide;	breathe	out	gently.
•	Release	one	leg	upward	and	actively	press	the	other
(lengthened)	leg	down	into	the	water	(3a).
•	Notice	how,	as	you	actively	press	down	with	one	leg,	the
other	rises	passively.
•	Perform	6–10	leg	beats	before	regaining	your	feet.
Remember
	Release	the	lower	back,	hips,	ankles	and	knees.	In-
toe	slightly	on	the	forward	action.	Aim	for	a	fluent,	flowing
action.
Avoid
	Do	make	stiff,	‘wooden’	kicks,	bend	the	legs	too	much	or
bring	the	feet	high	out	of	the	water.	Do	not	push	harder	with
one	leg	than	the	other,	actively	blow	out	air,	or	hold	your
breath.
4.	The	fencer
This	practice	gives	you	an	experience	of	moving	through	water
with	minimal	resistance.	It	is	a	comfortable	and	secure
introduction	to	moving	through	the	water	on	your	side,	and
connects	the	lead	arm	with	the	powerful	muscles	of	the	back.
•	Stand	with	your	right	foot	facing	forward	and	the	left	turned
out,	with	the	heels	together	at	right	angles	and	your	weight
evenly	spread.	Keep	your	hands	by	your	sides	and	look

evenly	spread.	Keep	your	hands	by	your	sides	and	look
straight	ahead	(4a).
•	Step	forward	with	your	right	leg,	extending	the	right	arm	with
the	thumb	uppermost,	arm	angled	downward;	leave	the	left
arm	alone	(4b).
•	Draw	your	left	leg	towards	the	right,	bringing	the	heels
together	and	the	feet	at	right	angles	to	each	other.	Release
the	right	arm	to	rest	by	your	side.
•	Centre	your	weight	before	stepping	forward	with	the	right	leg
and	extending	the	right	arm	again.	Repeat	four	times	before
leading	with	the	left	leg,	noticing	any	differences.


Remember
	Maintain	a	steady	rhythm,	allowing	the	arm	to
grow	out	from	the	back,	and	keeping	the	neck	free	and	the
head	centred.
Avoid
	Do	not	cross	the	mid-line	with	arms	or	legs,	step	outside
hip	width,	or	move	the	head	from	side	to	side.
5.	Side	kick
In	this	practice	on	the	side,	although	it	is	more	challenging	to
balance,	you	immediately	experience	how	frontal	resistance	is
reduced,	easing	forward	movement.	It	also	provides	an
opportunity	to	develop	your	balance	on	both	sides.	At	first,
most	right-handers	tend	to	find	it	more	comfortable	to	lead	with
their	right	arm,	and	vice	versa.
•	Step	forward	with	the	left	leg,	extend	the	left	arm	and	drift	on
to	your	side,	breathing	out	gently	into	the	water	(5a).
•	The	body	balances	on	its	side	with	head	centred	and	eyes
looking	down.

looking	down.
•	In	this	rotated	position,	start	a	slow,	even	leg	action	directing
the	effort	towards	the	right	side	for	6–10	leg	beats.
•	Roll	back	to	the	centre	and	regain	your	feet.
•	Repeat	the	practice	leading	with	the	left	arm,	noting	any
differences.
Remember
	When	the	right	arm	leads	the	movement,	legs	kick
to	the	left	and	vice	versa.
Avoid
	Do	not	commence	the	leg	action	before	you	are	balanced
on	the	side.	Do	not	arch	the	lower	back	and/or	over-rotate.
6.	Centre	to	the	side
Many	people	find	it	relatively	straightforward	to	keep	their	head
still	when	they	are	on	their	side	or	in	a	flat	position,	but	most
find	it	much	more	of	a	challenge	when	these	two	orientations
are	combined.	By	focusing	on	the	direction	of	travel	you	will
find	it	easier	to	keep	the	head	centred.
•	Glide	with	both	arms	extended,	palms	facing	downward,	and
hips	parallel.
•	Once	you	are	stable	on	your	front,	begin	the	leg	action,
performing	it	for	six	beats	before	pausing	in	preparation	for
the	transition	(6a).

•	Release	the	elbow	and	wrist	of	your	left	arm	so	that	it	is

•	Release	the	elbow	and	wrist	of	your	left	arm	so	that	it	is
crooked	(6b).	Draw	it	towards	the	left	hip;	simultaneously
direct	the	right	arm	forward.
•	As	the	right	arm	extends,	spiral	it	forward	and	down	into	the
water.	Turn	the	rest	of	the	body	from	the	hips	to	the	left	side.
The	head	remains	centred	with	the	eyes	looking	slightly
forward	(6c).
•	Perform	the	sideways	leg	action	for	six	leg	beats,	centre	the
body	and	regain	the	feet.	Perform	the	sequence	again,	ending
up	with	left	arm	leading.
Remember
	Neck	free	and	shoulders	and	hips	roll	around	a
central	axis.	Feel	as	if	you	are	swimming	downhill.
Avoid
	Do	not	turn	the	head	as	you	rotate,	shorten	the	lead
arm,	snatch	the	other	arm	back,	or	hold	the	breath.
7.	Side	–	centre
This	practice,	the	reverse	of	the	previous	one,	gives	clear	and
immediate	feedback	on	the	way	that	the	angle	of	the	body
affects	forward	movement.	The	resistance	of	the	water	makes
the	process	of	recovering	the	arm	a	little	tricky;	applying	less
effort	makes	this	movement	easier.	This	same	principle	applies
in	the	full-stroke	recovery,	where	many	waste	effort.
•	Drift	on	to	your	side,	with	the	left	arm	leading.	Once	stable,
start	the	leg	action	to	the	side	and	continue	for	six	beats	(7a).
•	Pause	the	legs,	release	the	wrist	and	elbow	of	the	right	arm
and	sweep	forward	as	if	performing	an	underarm	bowling
action,	until	it	is	parallel	with	the	left	arm,	and	the	body	is
gliding	flat	with	both	palms	down	(7b).
•	When	both	arms	are	parallel,	shoulder-width	apart,	and	the
body	is	stable,	restart	the	leg	action	for	six	beats	before
regaining	the	feet	(7c).
•	Repeat	the	practice,	this	time	starting	with	the	right	arm.
Remember
	Free	the	neck,	particularly	in	the	transition.

Maintain	the	direction	of	the	lead	arm	as	you	move	to	the	glide.
Avoid
	Do	not	apply	excessive	effort	as	you	move	the	back	arm
parallel	with	the	front	–	it	will	push	you	back.	Do	not	pull	the
head	back	and	raise	your	eye	level.
8.	Crawl	rotation
Once	you	are	comfortable	making	the	transition	from	centre	to
side,	and	side	to	centre,	you	can	combine	the	two	in	a	single
practice.	Here	the	emphasis	is	on	thinking	forward	and
maintaining	a	central	head	position	as	the	body	changes
orientation.	Depending	on	your	lung	capacity,	rotate	after	every
four	or	six	leg	beats.	Fitter	and	more	confident	swimmers	will
choose	the	latter.

LESSON	2:	ARM	ACTION
The	overarm	actions	in	the	back	and	the	front	crawl	share	many
characteristics,	the	arms	and	upper	body	generating	most	of
the	propulsion.	In	Shaw	Method	front	crawl,	the	lead	arm
maintains	its	length	until	the	recovering	arm	begins	to	enter	the
water.	This	aids	stability	and	improves	purchase.	The	emphasis
is	on	using	the	arms	to	hold	the	water,	as	if	you	were	pulling
yourself	along	an	imaginary	rope	rather	than	trying	to	pull
back.	The	torso	effectively	passes	the	anchored	arm.
Do	not	be	surprised	if	at	first	you	find	this	new	sequence
challenging,	as	it	goes	against	a	natural	inclination	to	swing

challenging,	as	it	goes	against	a	natural	inclination	to	swing
both	arms	at	the	same	time.	Spend	time	establishing	this	new
movement	pattern	on	dry	land	before	taking	it	into	the	water,
because	when	you	swim	the	stimulus	to	revert	to	habit	is
invariably	stronger.
The	arm	action	has	five	phases:	extension,	anchor,
propulsive,	salute	and	handshake.	This	lesson	teaches	the
phases	separately	and	then	you	link	them	together	in	a	flowing
way.	It	is	important	not	to	think	of	the	arms	working	in
isolation.
In	this	lesson,	you	will	explore	how	head	position,	the
movement	of	the	torso	and	the	leg	action	all	have	a	major
impact	on	the	quality	of	the	arm	action.	Similarly,	the	way	you
hold	your	hands	also	has	a	significant	impact.	Many	people	are
accustomed	to	swimming	the	crawl	with	tense	hands:	they
often	falsely	believe	that	by	stiffening	them	they	will	get	more
purchase	on	the	water.	Experience	shows	that	supple	and	open
hands	are	always	more	effective.
When	learning	to	coordinate	arm	movements	with	the	rest	of
the	body,	it	is	vital	that	the	head	remains	centred.	Exhale
gently	whenever	the	face	is	submerged;	the	more	you	exhale,
the	lower	your	body	tends	to	sink	and	the	more	effort	is
required	to	propel	yourself	forward.	Having	a	reserve	of	air	in
your	lungs	not	only	helps	you	to	remain	relaxed	and	focused
but	also	increases	your	buoyancy.
The	distinctive	Shaw	Method	front	crawl	arm	recovery
resembles	the	wings	of	an	eagle,	as	opposed	to	the	traditional
high	elbow	recovery	commonly	known	as	‘chicken	wings’.	Our
eagle-like	arm	action	is	streamlined	and	powerful.	Because	it
does	not	involve	hunching,	it	minimizes	strain	on	the	shoulder
joint.
1.	Single-arm	stepping
This	practice	can	be	performed	in	the	pool	or	on	dry	land.	Being
upright,	you	have	a	clear	view	of	the	arms	in	four	of	the	five
phases,	which	makes	coordination	easier.	Work	on	each	phase
separately	before	linking	them	together	in	a	flowing	way.	You
may	find	it	helpful	to	perform	the	practice	in	front	of	a	mirror.

may	find	it	helpful	to	perform	the	practice	in	front	of	a	mirror.
Extension	–	palm	down
•	Stand	with	your	left	foot	pointing	forward,	right	turned	out,
heels	together	in	an	L-shape,	body	rotated	to	the	right,	arms
by	the	sides.	The	head	is	centered,	looking	ahead.
•	Step	forward	with	the	left	leg	and	simultaneously	extend	the
left	arm	with	the	palm	down.
•	The	fingers	are	below	the	wrist,	wrist	below	the	elbow,	elbow
below	the	shoulder.	Both	feet	are	firmly	on	the	floor.	Leave
the	right	arm	resting	by	your	thigh	(1a).

the	right	arm	resting	by	your	thigh	(1a).
Remember
	The	arm	grows	out	from	the	back,	engaging	the
muscles	of	the	upper	back.
Avoid
	Do	not	lock	or	hyper-extend	the	leading	arm,	lift	the
shoulder,	tense	the	back	arm,	or	pull	the	head	back.
Anchor
•	Flex	the	wrist	and	elbow	and	rotate	the	forearm	so	that	the
fingers	are	pointing	down	and	the	elbow	is	directed	forwards.
•	Lengthen	from	the	shoulder	to	the	elbow	as	you	shift	your
weight	forward	and	rock	up	on	to	the	straightening	front	leg,
allowing	the	heel	of	the	back	foot	to	lift	(1b).
Remember
	Direct	the	elbow	forward.	Maintain	balance	by
keeping	the	lead	foot	grounded.
Avoid
	Do	not	hunch	the	shoulder	as	you	bend	the	elbow	or	look
down	at	the	floor.
Propulsive
Draw	your	left	arm	towards	your	left	hip	and	step	forward	with
the	right	leg.
•	Widen	the	back,	rotate	the	arm	and	body	to	the	left	as	the
arm	passes	the	hip,	and	extend	it	behind	you	with	the	thumb
uppermost.	The	head	is	centred	and	the	eyes	continue	to	look
forward	(1c).
Remember
	Keep	the	heel	down.	Make	smooth	transitions	from
the	right	arm	to	the	left.
Avoid
	Do	not	over-rotate	the	shoulder,	narrow	the	back,	tense
the	arm	or	raise	the	back	foot	on	tiptoe.
Salute
•	Without	pausing,	continue	the	movement	of	the	left	arm	up
and	over	and	rotate	the	right	hip	back	to	the	centre	so	that
the	torso	faces	forward,	relaxing	the	chest.
•	As	the	hand	reaches	the	highest	point,	release	the	elbow	and

•	As	the	hand	reaches	the	highest	point,	release	the	elbow	and
allow	gravity	to	bring	the	hand	down	a	few	inches	to	the	left
of	the	face,	as	if	to	salute,	with	the	palm	facing	outwards
(1d).
Remember
	Your	arm	grows	out	from	the	collarbone.	Keep	a
sense	of	lightness	as	the	arm	flows	through	the	air.	Stand	tall
throughout.
Avoid
	Do	not	pause	in	the	transition	between	the	third	and
fourth	phases,	as	this	makes	the	arm	heavier.	Do	not	drop	or
pull	the	head	back.
Extend	to	handshake
•	As	you	dynamically	step	with	the	left	foot	and	rotate	the	body
without	moving	the	head,	spiral	the	left	hand	forward	and
slightly	down.
•	The	hand	ends	up	with	thumb	on	top,	as	if	to	shake
someone’s	hand.	The	arm	is	fully	extended,	engaging	the
upper	back	muscles	in	a	slight	downward	trajectory	(1e).
•	Repeat	this	complete	cycle	four	times	before	transferring	to
the	left	arm.
Remember
	Keep	the	neck	free	and	head	centred	throughout.
The	hand	remains	relaxed	and	open.
Avoid
	Do	not	reach	upward	or	arch	the	back	as	the	arm
extends	forward.
2.	Standing	start
This	practice,	with	both	arms	in	front,	provides	a	stable	base	for
starting	each	action.	In	the	early	stages	it	is	beneficial	to	use	it
in	both	standing	and	swimming	practices.
•	Stand	with	the	heels	together	in	an	L-shape,	the	right	foot
facing	forward	and	the	left	turned	out.	Keep	both	arms	by
your	sides.
•	Step	forward	with	the	right	leg,	simultaneously	extend	the
right	arm	forward,	and	raise	the	left	arm	up	and	over	into	the

right	arm	forward,	and	raise	the	left	arm	up	and	over	into	the
salute	phase	(2a).
•	Allow	both	arms	to	release	down	to	the	side	and	perform	the
same	sequence	with	the	left	arm	leading,	noting	any
differences.
Remember
	Move	forward	and	up.	Both	arms	grow	out	of	a
lengthening	and	widening	back.
Avoid
	Do	not	drop	the	head,	or	hunch	the	shoulder	by	unduly
elevating	the	elbow.
3.	Arms	stepping
Standing	upright,	with	your	face	out	of	the	water,	allows	you	to
firmly	establish	this	newly	coordinated	arm	action.
•	Step	forward	with	the	right	leg,	lengthen	and	widen	the	back,

•	Step	forward	with	the	right	leg,	lengthen	and	widen	the	back,
and	move	the	arms	into	the	standing	start	phase	(3a).
•	Flex	the	right	wrist	and	elbow,	gently	press	the	hand	and
forearm	down	on	the	water,	and	shift	the	weight	forward	and
up	into	the	hook	phase	(3b).
•	Step	forward	with	the	left	leg,	the	left	arm	spiralling	into	the
handshake	phase,	the	right	arm	releasing	back	and	turning
out,	with	thumbs	up.	The	right	foot	is	turned	outward	and
your	weight	is	evenly	spread	(3c).
•	In	a	flowing	action,	let	the	right	arm	continue	its	movement
up	and	over.	When	it	reaches	its	highest	elevation,	allow
gravity	to	help	it	bend	into	the	salute	phase;	as	it	descends
rotate	the	left	arm	so	that	the	palm	is	face	down.	Keep	your
weight	centred.
•	Release	the	arms	and	start	the	practice	again	with	the
opposite	arm	leading.
Remember
	As	the	arms	move	into	the	extension	phase,	keep
your	heels	on	the	floor.	Thumbs	leading	the	arm	action.
Avoid
	Do	not	tense	the	shoulders	or	contract	the	upper	back.
Insufficient	hip	rotation	can	strain	the	lower	back.	Do	not	drop
the	lead	arm.

4.	One-cycle	swimming
Having	learned	to	coordinate	the	arm	action	on	a	vertical	plane,
you	are	now	ready	to	apply	the	action	to	swimming.	The
emphasis	should	be	on	holding	the	water	and	focusing	attention

emphasis	should	be	on	holding	the	water	and	focusing	attention
on	the	direction	of	travel.	Many	people	find	it	a	challenge	to
complete	only	a	single	sequence;	do	not	give	in	to	the
temptation	to	do	more.
•	Launch	into	a	glide	with	both	arms	extended	and	angled
downward.
•	Bend	the	right	wrist	and	elbow	to	hook	the	water	(4a).
•	Achieve	purchase	on	the	water	with	the	right	arm	as	the	left
extends	forward	into	the	handshake	phase	and	the	body
rotates	on	to	its	left	side	(4b).
•	Maintain	the	length	of	the	left	arm	as	the	right	arm	flows
straight	up	(4c)	and	over	into	the	salute	phase,	and	the	body
and	lead	arm	rotate	back	to	a	flat,	centred	position	(4d).
•	Extend	into	a	glide	and	regain	the	feet.	Then	perform	a	single
sequence	that	starts	on	the	other	side.
Remember
	The	recovery	of	the	arm	should	be	as	light	as
possible,	with	the	neck	free	throughout.
Avoid
	Do	not	raise	the	head,	lose	the	length	of	the	lead	arm	or
break	into	a	second	stroke.
5.	Walk	four,	swim	four
Walking	establishes	rhythm	and	pace,	which	is	carried	over	into
the	stroke.	It	is	important	to	count	full	strokes,	
i.e.
	at	the	point
when	both	arms	are	forward.	If	you	count	when	the	arm	pulls
back	it	confuses	the	timing	and	can	cause	the	lead	arm	to	drop.
•	Focus	on	the	timing,	paying	attention	to	the	beginning	and
end	of	each	cycle	–	one	arm	extended;	the	other	in	the	salute
position.
•	Establish	a	slow,	steady	rhythm	for	walking,	followed	by
similarly	paced	swimming	strokes.
•	Leave	the	face	in	the	water	when	swimming,	and	breathe	out
gently	throughout.	Excessive	exhalation	not	only	triggers
anxiety,	it	also	causes	the	body	to	sink	lower.

Remember
	Breathe	out	gently.	More	air	is	released	in	the
recovery	phase,	where	the	recovering	arm	bears	down	on	the
breathing	apparatus,	than	in	the	propulsive	phase	(where	the
arm	is	below	the	chest).
Avoid
	Do	not	speed	up	the	stroke	rate	when	
swimming.	Do	not
lose	the	timing,	
i.e.
	pull	back	too	early.	Do	not	breathe	out
forcefully.
LESSON	3:	BREATHING	WITH	EASE
In	front	crawl,	inhalations	are	made	through	the	mouth	by
turning	the	head	to	the	side.
Many	people	find	it	hard	to	understand	why,	when	they	were
younger,	they	were	able	to	swim	length	after	length	of	front
crawl,	but	in	later	life,	after	a	short	distance,	they	gasp	for	air.
In	most	cases	this	has	more	to	do	with	incorrect	positioning	and
a	lack	of	flexibility	than	fitness	and	stamina.
An	effective	breathing	pattern	results	from	having
understood	and	absorbed	the	essentials	of	the	crawl	covered	in
the	previous	lessons	–	if	these	are	not	firmly	in	place,	breathing
will	invariably	break	down.	By	building	on	this	foundation,	in
this	lesson	you	can	see	how	body	rotation	and	a	swift	turn	of
the	head	combine	to	establish	an	effective	breathing	pattern.
The	rotation	provides	more	room,	making	the	transition
between	water	and	air	easier.	You	can	also	draw	on	the
backstroke	skills	acquired	earlier,	as	the	hip	and	shoulder	roll	in
back	crawl	is	similar	to	the	breathing	position	in	front	crawl.	The
following	dry	land	practice	graphically	illustrates	the	significance
of	the	hip	roll	in	breathing	during	the	front	crawl.
•	Stand	with	one	foot	in	front	of	the	other,	turn	your	head	to
the	right	as	far	as	is	comfortable.	Unless	you	are	exceptionally
supple,	you	are	likely	to	feel	tension	in	the	shoulder	and	a
lack	of	space	(X).
•	Turn	your	right	hip	outward	so	that	the	right	foot	is	at	90°.
Rotate	your	head	to	the	right,	eyes	looking	slightly	up	–
notice	how	much	further	you	can	turn	it	and	how	much	more

notice	how	much	further	you	can	turn	it	and	how	much	more
comfortable	it	feels	(Y).
We	can	directly	relate	this	experience	to	swimming	the	front
crawl.	The	first	position	represents	turning	to	breathe	without
rotating	the	hip	and	shoulder,	the	second	to	breathing	with	the
body	rotation.	In	the	first	position,	a	lack	of	space	makes	it
almost	impossible	to	breathe	without	lifting	the	head	and
shortening	the	neck,	which	inevitably	causes	the	hips	to	sink
and	also	restricts	the	lungs.	When	the	body	is	rotated	to	the
side,	the	crown	stays	
submerged,	the	neck	remains	long,	and
breathing	is	relatively	straightforward.
To	achieve	an	effective	transition	between	the	face	being	in
and	out	of	the	water,	the	turn	of	the	head	must	be	integrated
with	the	movement	of	the	arms.	In	the	previous	section	we
explored	the	importance	of	maintaining	the	length	and	direction
of	the	front	arm	until	the	second	arm	begins	to	enter	the	water,
in	order	to	promote	maximum	propulsion.	This	timing	is	even
more	significant	for	breathing.	If	the	front	arm	pulls	back	before
the	head	and	recovering	arm	have	entered	the	water,	not	only
will	you	fail	to	gain	an	effective	purchase	on	the	water,	but	you

will	you	fail	to	gain	an	effective	purchase	on	the	water,	but	you
are	also	likely	to	sink	and	breathe	in	water.
Bilateral	and	unilateral	breathing
Most	people	have	a	favoured	side	when	it	comes	to	breathing:
right-handed	people	usually	feel	more	comfortable	turning	to
the	left,	and	left-handed	people	find	it	easier	to	breathe	to	the
right.	However,	an	efficient	front	crawl	calls	for	bilateral
breathing,	taking	one	breath	every	third	or	fifth	arm	recovery
(every	1.5	or	2.5	cycles,	depending	on	lung	capacity	and	fitness
level).	Opting	for	unilateral	breathing	on	the	more	comfortable
side	is	like	doing	flexibility	exercises	only	on	parts	that	are
flexible.	Over	time,	unilateral	breathing	can	have	major	postural
implications,	leading	to	a	lack	of	symmetry.	Breathing	on	both
sides	also	gives	a	much	better	sense	of	flow	and	rhythm.
The	practices	in	this	section	work	towards	bilateral
breathing.	Initially	it	is	advisable	to	spend	more	time	on	the
side	you	find	most	challenging.	Following	the	rotational	work
you	did	in	previous	lessons,	you	may	discover	that	bilateral
breathing	comes	surprisingly	easily.
1.	Legs	to	the	side
This	position	is	not	actually	found	in	front	crawl,	but	is	very
beneficial	for	getting	comfortable	on	your	side	and	for
discovering	how	to	position	the	head.	It	requires	a	little	more
rotation	towards	your	back	than	is	necessary	in	the	full	stroke.
•	Stand	with	your	left	foot	forward	and	the	right	foot	turned
outward.	The	head	is	in	neutral,	facing	forward.
•	Take	a	forward	step	with	the	left	foot	and	turn	the	neck	to
direct	the	gaze	back	and	up	to	the	right.
•	Slowly	descend	on	your	left	side	until	the	shoulders	are
submerged,	with	the	arms	resting	by	your	sides.	Gently	drift
off	with	your	face	clear	of	the	water	(1a).
•	Start	the	leg	action:	focus	on	releasing	the	back	and	pressing
the	whole	of	each	leg	forward.

Remember
	Lead	with	your	crown.	Both	ears	are	submerged
and	both	eyes	out	of	the	water.	Release	the	lower	back	and
allow	the	legs	to	move	freely	from	the	hips.
Avoid
	Do	not	lift	the	head	or	one	shoulder,	sweep	the	legs	too
widely	or	perform	a	cycling-type	leg	action.
2.	Extending	the	arm	and	turning	the	head
This	practice	can	be	performed	in	the	pool	or	on	dry	land.	It
improves	the	range	of	motion	of	the	neck	and	opens	out	the
sides	of	the	body.	It	familiarizes	you	with	this	new	alignment
and	connects	the	arms	with	the	back,	which	is	essential	for
producing	a	stable	foundation	from	which	to	breathe.


•	Stand	tall,	with	your	feet	postioned	in	an	L-shape	–	the	right
one	facing	forward	and	the	left	one	turned	outward.	Place
your	arms	by	your	sides	and	turn	your	head	to	look	over	your
right	shoulder	(2a).
•	Extend	the	left	arm	directly	upwards,	as	if	you	were	reaching
for	the	sky,	and	release	the	right	shoulder	(2b).
Remember
	Release	and	lengthen	the	neck	and	allow	the	arm
to	grow	out	from	the	back.
Avoid
	Do	not	arch	the	back,	or	fail	to	extend	the	arm	fully,
allowing	it	to	drift	off	to	the	side	instead	of	being	directed
straight	up.
3.	Lunge	and	breathe
This	practice	takes	your	upper	body	on	to	a	horizontal	plane
and	prepares	you	to	launch	off	into	a	comfortable	breathing
position.	It	is	useful	to	think	of	your	lead	arm	being	firm	and
stable,	and	the	upper	arm	being	soft	and	loose.
•	Step	forward	with	the	left	foot,	as	the	left	arm	extends
without	lifting	the	hand	higher	than	the	elbow;	leave	the	right

•	Step	forward	with	the	left	foot,	as	the	left	arm	extends
without	lifting	the	hand	higher	than	the	elbow;	leave	the	right
arm	alone	(3a).	Shift	your	gaze	by	turning	the	head	a	little
more	to	the	right,	to	look	slightly	back	and	up.
•	Perform	six	leg	beats	to	maintain	this	position,	then	bring	the
right	leg	forward	to	the	left	heel	and	stand	up	to	full	height.
Release	the	right	arm	so	that	it	rests	by	your	side.
•	Perform	the	sequence	again,	this	time	leading	with	the	left
leg.
Remember
	Turn	the	head	smoothly	as	you	lunge	forward.
Keep	the	back	open	throughout.
Avoid
	Do	not	tense	the	shoulder	of	the	lead	arm	or	lift	it
towards	the	ear.	Do	not	look	forward	just	before	you	lunge.	Do
not	take	a	large	step	forward.
4.	Side	step	to	breathe
This	practice	develops	the	ability	to	allow	the	arm	to	grow	out
from	the	back	and	acclimatizes	you	to	the	feeling	of	moving
through	water	on	your	side	without	being	able	to	see	where	you
are	going.
•	Start	with	your	feet	in	an	L-shape,	hands	by	the	sides,	eyes

•	Start	with	your	feet	in	an	L-shape,	hands	by	the	sides,	eyes
front	(4a).
•	Lunge	with	your	left	foot,	extend	the	left	arm	at	a	downward
angle.	As	you	step	forward,	turn	the	head	so	that	the	gaze	is
directed	back	and	up,	and	gently	breathe	in	through	the
mouth	(4b).
•	Maintain	this	position	for	a	count	of	four.	Step	forward	with
the	right	foot,	releasing	the	right	arm	as	you	breathe	out	for	a
count	of	six.
•	Repeat	this	sequence	six	times	and	then	perform	it	leading
with	the	right	arm,	noting	any	differences.	Most	left-handed
people	find	it	easier	to	turn	to	the	right,	and	vice	versa.
Remember
	Breathe	in	as	the	arms	open,	and	out	as	they
close.	Direct	the	lead	arm	away.
Avoid
	Do	not	hold	your	breath	or	breathe	in	as	the	arms	close.
Do	not	cross	the	mid-line,	twist,	or	tense	the	neck.
5.	Leg	action	–	swimming	on	the	side
This	practice	closely	corresponds	to	the	breathing	position	in
full-stroke	front	crawl.	Apart	from	being	an	ideal	way	to	work
on	your	leg	action,	as	it	does	not	compromise	the	head-neck-
back	relationship,	it	is	the	best	practice	for	learning	to	breathe
without	shortening	the	neck.

•	Start	as	in	the	previous	practice.	With	your	left	arm	leading,
step	forward,	lower	yourself	into	the	water	and	drift	off
looking	back	and	up	(5a).
•	Extend	the	left	arm,	angling	it	downward.	Both	ears	should	be
submerged,	your	chin	should	be	just	breaking	the	surface	and
both	eyes	should	be	out	of	the	water	(5b).
•	Alternately	release	the	legs	backward	and	press	them
forward,	directing	them	upwards	without	breaking	the
surface.
•	Continue	for	as	long	as	is	comfortable	before	repeating	on	the
other	side.
Remember
	Allow	the	weight	of	the	head	to	be	supported	by
the	water.	The	lead	arm	is	connected	with	the	primary	control,
which	acts	as	a	stable	platform	from	which	to	balance.	Keep	the
back	arm	soft	and	loose,	creating	space	to	breathe.
Avoid
	Do	not	arch	the	back,	lift	the	shoulders,	widen	the	legs,
raise	the	lead	arm	or	lift	the	head.
6:	Rotate	to	breathe
Stand	upright	in	the	pool,	looking	ahead,	with	the	arms	poised

Stand	upright	in	the	pool,	looking	ahead,	with	the	arms	poised
to	begin	the	stroke.	Open	out	the	arms	as	you	launch	yourself
on	to	your	side	and	into	the	breathing	position.	This	practice
allows	you	to	practise	the	transition	of	the	head	from	facing
forward	to	turning	to	the	side,	without	the	added	complication
of	having	to	put	the	face	in	and	out	of	the	water.
It	is	an	ideal	way	of	learning	to	coordinate	arm	action,	body
rotation	and	head	movement,	so	that	you	arrive	at	the
breathing	point	in	a	organized	fashion.	Dynamically	rolling	from
an	upright	stance	to	lying	on	your	side	emphasizes	the
sensation	of	leading	with	the	head,	and	feels	like	you	are
performing	a	diving	header,	in	soccer	terms.

•	Begin	in	the	opening	stance	and	then	take	a	small	step	with
the	right	foot;	both	feet	face	forward.
•	Extend	the	right	arm	and	bring	the	left	arm	up	and	over	into
the	salute	position.	Keep	your	weight	evenly	spread	and	your
eyes	looking	ahead	(6a).
•	Without	dropping	your	gaze,	move	up	into	the	anchor	phase,
bringing	your	weight	forward	and	the	back	foot	up	on	tiptoe
(6b).
•	Exhale	as	you	extend	the	left	arm	forward	and	allow	the	right
arm	to	move	towards	the	right	hip,	while	the	head	and	body
dynamically	rotate	forward	so	that	you	are	lying	on	your	left
side	with	your	face	out	of	the	water	(6c).

side	with	your	face	out	of	the	water	(6c).
•	Inhale	gently	and	maintain	this	position	for	around	ten
seconds	by	working	the	legs	(6d).	Repeat	the	whole	sequence
four	times	before	transferring	to	the	other	side.
Remember
	Lead	with	the	head	and	leave	the	neck	free	in	the
transitions.	Concentrate	on	relaxed,	gentle	breathing	through
the	mouth.
Avoid
	Do	not	pull	the	head	back	as	you	roll	forward.	Do	not	let
the	arm	drift	over	the	mid-line,	or	hunch	the	back	shoulder.
7.	Rolling	out	to	breathe
You	have	done	this	practice	with	a	dry	face:	now	you	are	now
ready	to	progress	to	the	transition	between	water	and	air.	To
prevent	water	getting	up	your	nose,	make	sure	you	exhale	in
the	transition	between	water	and	air.


•	Drift	off	in	the	start	position,	with	the	right	arm	extended.
Exhale	gently,	and	maintain	this	position	by	using	the	leg
action	for	a	few	seconds	(7a).
•	Flex	the	right	wrist	and	elbow	into	the	hook	phase	and	direct
them	forward	breathing	out	gently	into	the	water	(7b).
•	Spiral	and	extend	the	left	arm	forward	and	down	as	the	right
arm	holds	the	water,	and	the	right	hip	and	shoulder	turn.
•	Coordinate	the	head	with	the	spiralling	left	arm	so	that	it
turns	out	of	the	water,	ending	up	with	the	mouth	and	nose
clear	(7c).
•	Breathe	in	gently	through	the	mouth;	use	the	legs	to	sustain
a	comfortable	body	position	on	the	side.	Regain	the	feet	and
repeat	on	the	other	side.
Remember
	Breathe	out	continuously	in	the	transition	between
water	and	air.	Direct	the	lead	arm	forward	and	down	to	give

uplift.
Avoid
	Do	not	lift	the	head	to	breathe,	turn	the	head	after	the
back	arm	has	completed	the	stroke,	or	inhale	through	the	nose
instead	of	the	mouth.
8.	Two	strokes	–	roll	out
By	integrating	the	turn	made	to	breathe	with	a	couple	of	full
strokes,	you	get	a	clearer	idea	of	the	way	your	new	breathing
pattern	fits	into	the	stroke.	Maintaining	the	breathing	position
at	the	end	of	the	cycle	will	help	you	to	inhale	in	a	more	relaxed
manner	and	avoid	the	common	tendency	to	snatch	the	breath.
•	Leading	with	the	right	arm,	swim	two	complete	arm	cycles
with	the	face	submerged.	Look	slightly	ahead	and	start	to
exhale	gently.
•	At	the	start	of	the	third	cycle,	roll	outward	by	gently	turning
the	head	to	the	right,	so	the	eyes,	nose	and	mouth	are	clear
of	the	water	but	the	ears	remain	submerged.
•	Allow	the	air	to	enter	gently	through	the	mouth;	maintain	this
position	by	kicking	on	your	side	for	six	beats.
•	Tuck	up	and	regain	your	feet.	After	two	complete	stroke
cycles,	perform	the	sequence	leading	with	the	left	arm.
Remember
	Maintain	the	same	rhythm	on	breathing	and	non-
breathing	strokes.	Focus	on	directing	the	lead	arm	forward
rather	than	on	the	pulling	arm.
Avoid
	Do	not	actively	take	a	breath,	inhale	through	the	nose,
or	lift	the	head	to	inhale.
9.	Returning	the	face
By	working	on	the	transition	from	the	in-breath	to	the	out-
breath	in	isolation,	you	can	learn	to	prevent	the	common
mistake	of	dropping	the	lead	arm	before	the	head	and
recovering	arm	have	entered	the	water.	By	maintaining	the
length	of	the	lead	arm,	not	only	will	you	feel	more	control
coming	into	the	water,	but	you	will	also	be	able	to	achieve

coming	into	the	water,	but	you	will	also	be	able	to	achieve
effective	purchase.
•	Drift	off	on	your	side,	with	the	right	arm	leading	and	head
turned	left	with	the	face	out	of	the	water.	Maintain	this
position	for	six	leg	beats	(9a).
•	Gently	raise	the	left	arm	and	turn	the	neck	to	bring	the	face
into	the	water	as	you	rotate	the	right	arm	(palm	down)
without	dropping	or	shortening	it	(9b).
•	Roll	inwards	until	the	hips	and	shoulders	are	almost	parallel
and	the	body	is	flat	(9c).
•	Maintain	this	central	position	for	six	beats	before	regaining
your	feet.
•	Repeat	the	sequence	on	the	other	side.

•	Repeat	the	sequence	on	the	other	side.
Remember
	The	recovering	arm	should	flow	lightly	through	the
air	into	the	water.
Avoid
	Do	not	bear	down	heavily	with	the	recovering	arm,	or
drop	the	lead	arm	as	the	recovering	arm	is	raised.
10.	Full-stroke	bilateral	breathing
Swim	a	continuous,	steady	front	crawl,	breathing	every	third	or
fifth	stroke.
•	Swing	the	recovering	left	arm;	bend	the	right	arm	to	hook
and	direct	the	recovering	left	arm	forward	and	vice	versa.
•	During	strokes	where	the	face	is	submerged,	breathe	out
gently	when	the	arm	holds	the	water,	and	a	little	more
actively	in	the	recovering	phase.
•	It’s	not	necessary	to	rotate	the	body	any	further	on	the	stroke
that	takes	the	face	out	of	the	water,	than	on	strokes	where
the	face	remains	submerged.
Remember
	Keep	a	steady,	even	rhythm	to	the	movement	of
the	arms	and	legs.	Hold	the	water	with	one	arm	and	glide	over
it	with	the	other,	always	lengthening	and	widening	the	back.
Avoid
	Do	not	hurry	the	pace	of	the	arms	in	order	to	breathe.
Do	not	gasp	and	lift	the	head	to	breathe,	or	drop	the	lead	arm
after	inhaling	as	you	roll	back.
One	complete	stroke
1.	Centre	the	body	with	the	eyes	looking	down,	lead	arm
extended	with	the	palm	down	and	second	arm	in	salute.

2.	Flex	the	wrist	of	the	lead	arm	and	direct	the	elbow	forward	to
anchor	the	water.
3.	Direct	the	saluting	arm	forward	to	the	handshake	as	the
body	dynamically	rotates	onto	the	side.
4.	Direct	the	new	lead	arm	forward	as	the	recovering	arm
lengthens	through	the	air,	thumb	leading,	body	centered.

	
Breaststroke	to	butterfly
Butterfly,	the	newest	of	the	four	traditional	swimming	styles,
evolved	from	breaststroke.	It	was	developed	in	the	1930s	by
US	swimming	coaches	who	were	keen	to	make	breaststroke
faster.	They	found	it	frustrating	that	even	though	breaststroke
generated	a	great	deal	of	propulsive	force,	much	of	this	was
wasted	during	the	underwater	recovery	phases.	They	made	two
major	modifications:	recovering	the	arms	by	moving	them	over
the	top,	and	experimenting	with	a	dolphin-like	leg	action.	This
new	version	of	the	stroke	was	swum	alongside	classical
breaststroke	until	the	1950s,	when	butterfly	was	finally
designated	a	distinct	stroke.	Since	then,	butterfly	has	gone
from	strength	to	strength	and	is	now	the	second	quickest
stroke.
Four-wheeled	fly
In	many	ways,	butterfly	is	the	supreme	stroke:	a	four-wheel
drive	stroke	with	equal	propulsion	coming	from	the	upper	and
lower	body,	and	where	swimmer	and	water	merge.	Seen	as	the
preserve	of	the	strongest	and	fittest,	swimming	continuous
butterfly	seems	completely	out	of	reach	to	most	people.	Even
amongst	the	most	advanced	fitness	swimmers	it	is	rare	for
anyone	to	be	able	to	swim	more	than	200	metres	(650ft)
without	feeling	exhausted.
In	this	section	you	will	discover	that	the	butterfly	is	not
necessarily	more	challenging	than	other	strokes.	As	always	in
the	Shaw	Method,	the	key	is	to	work	intelligently	with	the
water.	Butterfly	is	an	ideal	opportunity	to	put	your	new
relationship	with	the	water	to	the	test.	Without	releasing
tension	and	working	with	buoyancy	you	will	struggle	to
progress.
The	following	lessons	take	you	through	a	series	of	practices
covering	the	core	elements	of	the	butterfly	undulation,	arm	and
leg	actions,	and	integration	of	the	breath.	As	in	all	strokes,	only

covering	the	core	elements	of	the	butterfly	undulation,	arm	and
leg	actions,	and	integration	of	the	breath.	As	in	all	strokes,	only
attempt	the	full	stroke	when	you	have	consolidated	the
preliminary	practices.
Shaw	Method	key	features
Orientation
	Unlike	conventional	butterfly,	where	a	powerful,
dolphin-like	leg	kick	is	key	to	undulation,	the	head	is	key	in	the
Shaw	Method.	The	crown	leads	the	body	forward	and	down,
with	the	eyes	leading	the	body	forward	and	up.
Arm	action
	The	arm	recovery	is	low	and	wide,	and	connected
to	the	movement	of	the	hips	and	back.	The	slower,	lighter	arm
recovery	leading	into	a	glide	makes	for	a	significantly	more
sustainable	stroke.	Beneath	the	surface,	the	focus	is	on	holding
the	water	to	press	the	torso	forward	rather	than	pulling	it	back.
Leg	action
	The	two-beat,	dolphin-like	leg	action	is	gentle	and
flowing,	with	the	emphasis	on	pressing	the	legs	down	and
allowing	them	to	float	up.	This	lighter	action	is	less	tiring	and
makes	it	easier	to	recover	the	arms.
Rhythm
	The	hallmark	of	the	Shaw	Method	butterfly	is	its
steady,	even	rhythm	and	a	strong	sense	of	gliding	through	the
water	with	the	emphasis	on	allowing	the	water	to	lift	the	body.
Benefits
The	continuous,	wavelike	action	in	butterfly	is	both	energizing
and	calming.	It	mobilizes	the	
spine,	benefiting	those	with	a	stiff
or	tense	back.	People	suffering	from	sciatica	and	other	lower
back	conditions	have	experienced	relief	from	learning	the	Shaw
way	to	do	butterfly.	This	benefit	is	in	part	the	result	of	the
strengthening	effect	that	the	undulating	action	has	on	the
abdominals.	The	stroke	helps	to	tone	the	arms	and	legs,	and
the	wide	overarm	recovery	broadens	the	back.
Risks	and	common	mistakes
Alignment

Alignment
1.	Many	people	struggle	to	recover	their	arms,	which	often
leads	them	to	apply	more	effort,	compounding	the	problem.	The
solution	is	to	engage	the	hips	and	lower	back;	when	the	arms
move	backwards	the	hips	sway	forward	and	vice	versa.
2.	Many	find	it	difficult	to	release	the	hips,	making	the	arm	and
leg	actions	more	difficult.
3.	If	you	lift	the	head	too	high	to	breathe,	it	will	cause	the	hips
to	sink	too	low.	Keeping	the	head	out	of	the	water	for	too	long
impedes	arm	recovery,	straining	the	neck	and	upper	back.
Timing
1.	Many	have	difficulty	with	coordination,	attempting	to	push
their	hips	and	arms	forward	simultaneously.
2.	If	you	breathe	on	every	stroke	it	requires	more	effort	and
can	lead	to	hyperventilation.	Breathing	on	every	second	stroke
is	more	efficient,	providing	more	time	to	breathe	out.
3.	Many	struggle	to	achieve	the	recommended	cycle	of	two	leg
beats.	In	Shaw	butterfly,	we	focus	on	the	first	leg	beat	and,	by
gliding	at	the	end	of	the	recovery,	allow	the	second	to	occur
naturally	as	a	consequence	of	the	undulation	of	the	torso.
Propulsion
1.	Many	people	overestimate	the	amount	of	effort	required.
Kicking	too	hard	is	not	only	tiring,	but	interrupts	the	flowing
action	of	the	arms.	With	the	dolphin-like	leg	action	it	is
important	to	press	the	legs	down	and	allow	them	to	float	back
up.
2.	Another	common	stroke	fault	is	to	pull	the	arms	straight
back,	rather	than	holding	the	water	to	propel	the	body	forward.
A	higher,	elbow-hooking	action	under	the	water	improves
purchase.
3.	Many	experience	a	build-up	of	tension	in	the	arms	and
shoulders	as	a	result	of	applying	undue	effort	under	the	water.
This	can	be	addressed	by	releasing	the	arms	as	they	approach
the	hips.

LESSON	1:	UNDULATION
The	overall	impression	of	someone	swimming	the	butterfly	with
style	is	a	continuous,	wavelike	motion	of	the	whole	body.	The
movement	of	the	arms	and	legs	fades	into	the	background	as
one	witnesses	this	graceful	action.	In	most	swimming	manuals,
undulation	is	seen	as	a	consequence	of	the	dolphin-like	leg
action	and	the	recovery	of	the	arms.	In	the	Shaw	Method,	the
undulation	is	at	the	heart	of	the	stroke,	with	the	movement	of
the	trunk	making	a	significant	contribution	to	overall	propulsion,
providing	the	foundation	for	both	the	arm	and	leg	actions.
Dolphin	action
The	legs	remain	together	throughout	and	the	movement	flows
through	the	hips,	resembling	a	dolphin	swimming	along.	Gliding
with	the	knees	released,	a	Shaw	Method	butterfly	swimmer
presses	down	with	the	upper	body	as	the	hips	rise,	then	presses

presses	down	with	the	upper	body	as	the	hips	rise,	then	presses
down	with	the	legs,	causing	the	upper	body	to	be	pushed	to	the
surface.
This	first	lesson	takes	you	though	a	series	of	practices	in
order	to	develop	an	effective	dolphin	action	and	master	the	art
of	undulation.	A	significant	proportion	of	the	overall	propulsion
is	generated	by	the	combined	actions	of	the	legs	and	the	torso.
It	is	important	to	be	patient,	as	the	wavelike	motion	is	probably
unlike	anything	you	have	done	before.	It	may	take	a	while
before	you	can	perform	it	with	ease.
1.	Body	balance
The	gliding	phase	of	this	practice	develops	your	ability	to
balance	without	the	support	of	the	arms.	This	is	an	important
skill	in	butterfly,	the	only	stroke	where	both	arms	are
simultaneously	brought	behind	the	body.	Learning	to	regain	the
feet	without	the	assistance	of	the	arms	develops	your	control	of
the	core	muscles,	which	is	crucial	to	undulation.
•	Inhale	gently	and	step	forward,	arms	by	the	sides.	Bow
forwards	and	start	to	exhale	gently	into	the	water.
•	Without	actively	pushing,	drift	off	into	a	glide	with	the	eyes
looking	down	and	a	sense	of	the	crown	leading	the	movement
(1a).
•	Maintain	this	stable	position,	without	moving	the	limbs	or
trunk,	for	the	count	of	four.	Then	
press	the	head	down	(1b)
and	tuck	up	to	regain	the	feet	without	using	the	arms	(1c).
•	Repeat	the	above	sequence	leading	off	with	the	other	leg.
Remember
	Keep	the	neck	free,	and	the	shoulders	and	arms
relaxed	throughout.
Avoid
	Do	not	actively	push	off	from	the	floor	or	pull	the	head
back	to	regain	the	feet.
2.	Upright	wave
This	practice	familiarizes	you	with	moving	the	torso	as	one	unit.
It	can	been	performed	either	floating	upright	in	deep	water	or

It	can	been	performed	either	floating	upright	in	deep	water	or
standing.	The	movement	is	assisted	by	the	uplift	of	the	water
and	the	resistance	offers	useful	feedback.
•	Either	take	up	the	opening	stance	or	tread	water	(see
glossary).
•	With	palms	facing	to	rear,	tilt	the	upper	body	forward	from
the	hips	(2a),	bend	the	knees	slightly	and	if	standing	keep	the
heels	in	contact	with	the	floor.
•	The	hips	move	forward	and	the	upper	back	sways	backwards
as	the	arms	gently	sweep	behind	the	body.	If	standing,	move
up	on	to	tiptoes	with	eyes	at	eye	level	(2b).
•	Repeat	a	number	of	times	until	the	movement	of	arms	and
back	feel	integrated.
Remember
	Move	the	body	as	one	complete	unit.	Release	the
hips	and	relax	the	shoulders.
Avoid
	Do	not	arch	the	back	or	pull	vigorously	with	the	arms.

3.	Wave	–	arms	extended
This	movement	corresponds	to	the	start	of	every	stroke	in
butterfly.	In	this	practice	it	is	important	to	resist	the	temptation
to	pull	the	body	down	with	the	arms.
•	Step	forward.	As	the	arms	extend,	bow	the	head	and	drift	into
a	glide,	eyes	front,	breathing	out	gently	(3a).
•	With	your	arms	extended,	press	the	chest	down	to	allow	the
hips	to	rise,	the	crown	of	the	head	leading	the	body	forward
and	slightly	down.	Ankles	and	knees	loose	(3b).
•	Allow	the	legs	to	press	down	and	the	body	to	float	up	as	you
look	ahead	again.	Look	down	to	glide	forward	for	a	few
seconds	(3c)	before	regaining	your	feet.
•	Move	from	a	single	wave	into	a	series	of	waves.	If	you	have

•	Move	from	a	single	wave	into	a	series	of	waves.	If	you	have
difficulty	doing	more	than	one,	press	the	chest	forward	as	the
body	rises.
Remember
	Move	the	body	as	a	whole.	The	downward
movement	is	active	and	the	upward	passive.	Direct	the
undulating	movement	with	your	fingertips.
Avoid
	Do	not	stiffen	the	hips,	over-bend	the	knees	and	lift	the
feet	clear	out	of	the	water,	pull	the	head	back	or	hold	your
breath.
4.	Wave	–	arms	trailing
Both	this	and	the	previous	practice	give	you	the	sensation	of
working	the	torso	as	one	unit.	Some	find	this	practice	easier;
others	find	it	harder.	It	is	easier	to	be	aware	of	the	nodding
action	of	the	head	in	the	undulation	without	the	arms.
•	Inhale	gently,	step	forward	with	arms	by	the	sides.	Bow
forwards,	eyes	looking	ahead,	and	start	to	exhale	gently	(4a).
•	Collapse	the	chest	and	actively	press	down,	releasing	the
lower	back	so	that	the	hips	are	driven	upward	as	the	legs

•	Collapse	the	chest	and	actively	press	down,	releasing	the
lower	back	so	that	the	hips	are	driven	upward	as	the	legs
extend	(4b).
•	Allow	the	upthrust	of	the	water	to	lift	the	upper	body	as	the
knees	bend	and	the	hips	move	forward	and	down	(4c).	Regain
your	feet.	Now	attempt	to	link	a	series	of	undulations
together.
Remember
	Keep	hands	loose	by	your	sides.	Allow	legs	to
lengthen	and	float	up	with	the	rest	of	the	body.	Enjoy	the	ebb
and	flow	of	this	movement.
Avoid
	Do	not	arch	the	back	unduly,	poke	the	chin	forward,
over-bend	the	knees,	lift	the	feet	out	of	the	water,	or	dive	too
deep.
LESSON	2:	ARM	ACTION
As	discussed	earlier,	the	arm	action	in	butterfly	is	a
consequence	of	the	undulating	movement	of	the	torso.	When
the	hips	move	forward	and	down,	the	arms	sweep	backwards
(in	the	direction	of	the	hips)	and	when	the	hips	and	back	move
backwards,	the	arms	recover	over	the	surface	of	the	water.	The

backwards,	the	arms	recover	over	the	surface	of	the	water.	The
symmetrical	double	arm	action	in	butterfly	can	be	broken	down
into	four	phases:
Extension
	The	arms	are	directed	forward	and	angled	slightly
down	just	within	the	width	of	the	shoulders.
Lever
	The	wrists	are	flexed	and	elbows	bent.
Propulsive
	The	holding	phase,	where	the	forearms	actively	pull
the	torso	forward.
Recovery
	Both	arms	coast	widely	over	the	surface	and
lengthen	into	the	extension	phase.
The	release	into	the	recovery	phase	starts	when	both	arms	are
still	in	the	water;	it	is	important	not	to	pull	too	far	backwards	as
this	will	tend	to	lock	the	arms.	The	recovery	phase	is	often
perceived	as	the	most	challenging,	and	many	people	waste
unnecessary	mental	and	physical	effort	trying	to	lift	their	arms
over	the	water.	This	lesson	teaches	that	when	the	other	phases
are	working	correctly,	the	recovery	effectively	happens	by	itself.
1.	Spreading	your	wings
This	action	gives	you	a	sense	of	how	the	movement	of	the	back
and	pelvis	promote	an	open	and	wide	recovery	action.
•	Stand	with	your	feet	together,	hips	forward,	knees	slightly
bent,	and	head	gently	tilted	back	so	that	the	eyes	look	slightly
up	(1a).
•	Open	the	shoulders	and	sweep	the	extended	arms	out	to	the
side	to	just	behind	the	hips,	palms	facing	forward	(1b).	This
promotes	a	sense	of	opening	across	the	chest.
•	Step	forward	with	the	left	foot	and	start	to	exhale	as	you
simultaneously	sweep	your	arms	over	the	surface	of	the	water
(1b).	Lengthen	the	back	of	the	neck	so	the	eyes	are	looking
straight	down.	Whether	or	not	your	face	ends	up	submerged
depends	on	the	depth	of	the	pool	(1c).

Remember
	Keep	most	of	your	weight	on	the	back	foot	as	you
step	forward.	Broaden	the	back	across	the	shoulders	as	the
arms	sweep	over	the	surface.
Avoid
	Do	not	narrow	the	back	when	the	arms	are	in	their	initial
position	behind	the	hips.	Do	not	allow	the	arms	to	become	out
of	sync.	Stifle	the	tendency	to	lead	with	the	dominant	arm.


2.	Stepping	and	sliding	the	arms
This	practice	can	be	performed	in	the	water	or	on	dry	land,	and
helps	you	appreciate	how	the	arms	and	hips	combine	to
produce	forward	momentum.	On	dry	land,	the	arm	recovery	is
very	straightforward.	With	the	resistance	of	water,	it	is	more	of
a	challenge,	which	further	highlights	the	importance	of	a	gentle
recovery.
•	Bend	the	knees	and	allow	your	torso	to	incline	forward	as	you
lengthen	along	the	spine	(2a).	Leading	with	the	wrists,	slide
the	arms	forward	until	they	are	fully	extended	and	direct	your

the	arms	forward	until	they	are	fully	extended	and	direct	your
gaze	towards	the	floor.
•	Flex	the	hands	and	release	the	elbows	as	you	prepare	the
forearms	as	if	to	take	hold	of	the	water,	with	weight	evenly
distributed	on	both	feet.
•	Push	the	hips	forward	and	gently	bend	the	back	(2b)	as	you
take	two	small	steps	forward	(2c).
•	In	one	continuous	action,	incline	the	torso	and	extend	the
arms	forward	(2d).	Repeat	the	whole	sequence	five	or	six
times.
Remember
	The	arms	act	as	levers	to	draw	the	torso	forward,
actively	pressing	the	air	out	as	the	torso	inclines	forward.
Inhale	as	the	hips	thrust	forward	and	arms	move	back.
Avoid
	Do	not	move	the	arms	without	changing	the	position	of
the	hips.	Do	not	over-arch,	or	hyper-extend	the	spine.
3.	Soaring
This	practice	involves	pressing	the	body	down	and	pulling	it
back	up	with	the	arms.	This	is	one	of	the	most	important	of	the
butterfly	practices,	as	it	establishes	the	overall	rhythm	of	the
stroke	and	highlights	the	relationship	between	the	dolphin-like
leg	action	and	the	underwater	phase	of	the	arms.
•	Launch	off	into	a	glide	with	your	arms	extended,	knees
slightly	bent	and	eyes	looking	in	the	direction	of	travel;
breathe	but	gently	into	the	water.
•	Nod	your	head	as	you	actively	straighten	the	legs	and	press
the	body	downward	whilst	maintaining	the	length	and
direction	of	both	arms	(3a).
•	Look	ahead,	gently	tilting	the	head	backwards,	and	as	the
body	starts	to	float	up,	open	the	arms,	flex	the	hands	and
bend	the	elbows	(3b).

•	Hold	on	to	the	water	and	allow	the	head	to	lead	the	body
forward	and	up	to	the	surface	(3c).	Do	not	be	concerned	if
this	brings	your	face	out	of	the	water.
•	Remain	with	your	arms	by	your	side,	eyes	looking	ahead	and
knees	bent,	until	you	stop	moving	forward,	at	which	point
tuck	to	regain	the	feet	with	your	arms	by	your	sides.
Remember
	Flex	the	hands	and	bend	the	elbows.	Release	the
arms	towards	the	waist	as	you	press	the	hips	toward	the	floor.

Avoid
	Do	not	go	too	deep	by	using	the	arms	to	pull	you	down
rather	than	to	assist	elevation.
4.	Wave	revisited
This	revision	practice	reconnects	you	to	the	undulation	which	is
at	the	heart	of	the	stroke.	This	combination	of	the	extended	and
trailing	arm	undulations	serves	as	a	timely	reminder	not	to
overwork	the	arms.	It	also	gives	an	
opportunity	to	experiment
with	applying	a	major	and	minor	dolphin	action.
•	Exhaling	gently,	glide	with	the	arms	extended,	knees	bent	and
eyes	looking	slightly	ahead.	Actively	press	down	with	the	head
to	hollow	the	chest	and	release	the	lower	back	so	that	the
hips	are	driven	upward.	Thrust	with	the	legs	as	they	extend
allowing	the	head	and	fingertips	to	lead	your	upper	body
down.
•	Look	up	and	direct	the	chest	and	arms	forward	as	the	upper
body	travels	towards	the	surface.
•	As	the	body	starts	to	float	up	open	the	arms,	flex	the	hands
and	bend	the	elbows.	Gently	tilt	the	head	backwards.	Hold
onto	the	water	and	move	forward	with	the	chest	as	you	press
the	body	up	towards	the	surface.
•	Instead	of	pausing	as	in	the	previous	practice,	undulate	again
but	with	the	arms	trailing	by	the	sides.	As	with	the	arms
extended,	perform	a	second	lighter	and	smaller	undulation
before	regaining	the	feet.

5.	Breastafly
This	practice	helps	counter	the	common	mistake	of
overemphasizing	the	action	of	lifting	the	arms	clear	of	the	water
while	not	paying	attention	to	what	happens	below.	Because	this
form	of	recovery	creates	resistance,	it	encourages	the	pattern
of	making	a	soft	recovery,	which	is	important	in	the	full	stroke	–
a	positive	side	effect	of	the	practice.
•	Inhale	gently	and	launch	smoothly	into	a	glide,	with	both
arms	extended,	the	head	slightly	tilted	back,	eyes	looking
ahead.
•	With	the	arms	still	extended,	bow	the	head	to	push	the	upper
body	down	towards	the	floor	(5a).
•	Flex	the	wrists	and	bend	the	elbows	to	take	hold	of	the	water
(5b),	and	thrust	the	hips	and	chest	forward	as	you	propel
yourself	towards	the	surface.
•	Draw	the	hands	together	in	front	of	chest	with	the	eyes
looking	down	(5c).
•	Slide	the	arms	forward	as	if	you	were	performing	a
breaststroke	arm	recovery.

breaststroke	arm	recovery.
•	Repeat	the	whole	sequence	a	second	time	and	regain	the	feet.
Remember
	Accelerate	forward	and	down	with	the	lower	body
and	then	forward	and	up	with	the	upper	body,	using	the
recovery	to	balance.
Avoid
	Do	not	lift	the	arms	out	of	the	water.	Do	not	exhale
forcefully	as	this	will	make	you	sink.
6.	Arm	action	with	feet	on	the	ground
Standing	stationary,	follow	the	same	sequence	of	arm	and	body
movements	as	in	the	second	practice,	but	instead	of	performing
an	underarm	recovery,	bring	the	arms	over	the	top	as	the	hips
sway	back.	Being	upright,	with	the	face	permanently	clear	of
the	water,	it	is	easier	to	learn	the	rhythm	of	the	stroke	as	you
can	continue	the	movement	many	times	without	needing	to
stop	for	a	breath.
•	Extend	the	arms	forward,	leading	with	the	wrists,	and	allow
the	hips	to	release	back	as	the	upper	body	sways	forward.
Keep	the	legs	bent	with	the	heels	on	the	floor	(6a).
•	Draw	the	arms	back	as	the	hips	incline	forward	and	the
weight	shifts	on	to	the	balls	of	the	feet,	knees	slightly	bent
(6b).
•	In	one	continuous	movement,	leading	with	the	tips	of	the	little
fingers,	start	to	swing	the	arms	(6c)	up	and	over	the	top	(6d).
Remember
	The	overarm	recovery	is	a	consequence	of	the
movement	of	the	hips	and	arms	beneath	the	surface.
Avoid
	Do	not	push	at	any	point	during	the	cycle,	particularly
when	the	arms	are	behind	you,	as	it	makes	the	arms	feel
heavier	in	the	recovery.

7.	Complete	arm	action
After	practising	all	the	individual	elements	of	the	stroke,	you
are	now	ready	to	put	it	all	together.	A	pause	at	the	end	of	the
cycle	gives	you	the	opportunity	to	discover	the	second	dolphin
beat,	which	often	gets	left	out	in	continuous	butterfly
swimming.
•	From	a	glide,	perform	one	full	stroke	with	the	face	in	the
water	and	an	overarm	recovery	(7a–d).
•	At	the	end	of	the	cycle,	maintain	the	length	of	the	arms	and
relax.	You	will	notice	a	second	small	wave	through	the	body.
This	second	wave	is	a	consequence	of	the	arm	recovery	and
should	be	allowed	to	happen	by	itself	rather	than	actively

should	be	allowed	to	happen	by	itself	rather	than	actively
creating	it.
•	Glide	for	three	or	four	seconds,	then	undulate	without
shortening	the	arms	and	regain	the	feet.
Remember
	Release	the	pressure	in	the	arms	when	they	pass
the	thigh.
Avoid
	Do	not	pull	the	arms	beyond	the	hips	or	rush	the	arms
forward	in	the	recovery.
8.	Two	complete	strokes
Now	you	have	integrated	the	torso,	arms	and	legs	with	face
submerged	for	one	stroke,	you	can	progress	to	performing	this
action	a	couple	of	times.	Swimming	with	the	face	in	the	water
helps	establish	flow	and	rhythm	without	the	pressure	of	having
to	breathe.

LESSON	3:	INTEGRATING	THE	BREATH
Issues	concerning	breathing	are	a	major	cause	of	anxiety	for
those	wishing	to	master	butterfly,	and	three	of	the	most	serious
stroke	faults	are	rooted	in	a	lack	of	confidence.
Struggling	to	get	the	face	out	of	the	water	to	breathe	leads
many	people	to	lift	their	heads	too	high,	which	not	only	wastes
energy	but	also	creates	excessive	drag	as	the	lower	body	is
forced	down.	This	also	leads	to	the	tendency,	discussed	in	the
other	strokes,	to	actively	inhale,	which	can	give	rise	to
hyperventilation.	Unease	about	breathing	also	causes	swimmers
to	keep	their	faces	out	of	the	water	for	too	long.	Pulling	the
head	back	during	the	recovery	of	the	arms	makes	this	action
more	of	an	effort	and	strains	the	neck.
Breathing	with	ease
In	butterfly,	as	with	the	other	strokes,	explosive	breathing	is

In	butterfly,	as	with	the	other	strokes,	explosive	breathing	is
detrimental.	However,	the	intense	and	explosive	way	in	which
most	people	approach	the	stroke	means	that	forceful
exhalations	are	unavoidable.
This	can	be	countered	by	slowing	down	and	relaxing.	You	will
feel	less	desperate	to	take	a	breath	and	consequently	able	to
negotiate	the	transition	between	water	and	air	more	fluently.
Efficient	breathing	entails	allowing	the	head	to	lift	gently	rather
than	snatching	it	out	of	the	water,	which	is	a	sure	way	to	give
yourself	a	whiplash	injury!	The	head	moves	wiith	each
undulation,	and	all	that	is	necessary	for	the	face	to	break	the
surface	is	to	continue	this	movement	a	little	further.
Until	recently,	swimming	coaches	generally	required
swimmers	to	breathe	every	other	stroke.	It	was	believed	that
even	a	slight	lift	of	the	head	reduced	streamlining	and	speed,
but	then	came	Michael	Phelps,	butterfly	world	record	holder	and
Olympic	champion,	who	breathes	on	every	stroke.	Experiment
with	different	breathing	patterns	and	find	out	what	works	best
for	you.	Whatever	you	choose,	always	exhale	at	the	end	of	the
recovery;	to	do	it	any	earlier	will	put	your	head	out	of	sync	with
the	undulating	action	of	the	rest	of	the	body.
In	an	attempt	to	reduce	resistance,	some	butterfly	swimmers
have	even	started	turning	their	head	to	the	side	to	keep	it	as
low	as	possible.	I	find	this	way	of	breathing	problematic,	as
when	my	head	turns	I	feel	that	the	rest	of	my	body	wants	to
follow.	But	feel	free	to	try	it	out	for	yourself:	my	reluctance	may
be	the	result	of	habitual	patterns	carried	over	from	the	front
crawl.
1.	Breathing	–	feet	on	the	ground
Practise	coordinating	your	breathing	with	the	arm	action	in
shallow	water.
•	Stand	with	your	feet	together,	arms	extended	and	eyes
looking	straight	ahead.
•	Exhale	as	you	press	the	hips	forward	and	draw	the	arms	to
your	sides,	allowing	the	knees	to	bend.	Notice	how,	at	the	end

your	sides,	allowing	the	knees	to	bend.	Notice	how,	at	the	end
of	this	pull	phase,	you	spontaneously	feel	like	inhaling	(1a).
•	Resume	the	exhalation	as	the	arms	swing	over,	leading	with
the	little	finger	(1b).
•	Continue	the	practice	for	six	cycles;	pause.
Remember
	Sway	the	hips	and	allow	the	exhalation	to	follow
the	recovery	phase	naturally.
Avoid
	Do	not	breathe	in	reverse,	
i.e.
	inhale	on	the	recovery
and	exhale	at	the	end	of	the	pull	phase.
2.	Breathing	for	butterfly	on	land
Now	practise	coordinating	your	breathing	with	the	arm	action
on	dry	land.
Although	you	are	standing,	the	fact	that	in	this	practice	you
move	forward	as	the	arms	perform	their	propulsive	phase	gives
you	a	good	sense	of	the	stroke’s	rhythm	and	further	integrates
the	timing	of	breathing	learned	in	the	previous	practice.
•	Perform	the	same	sequence	of	movements	as	in	the	previous
practice,	but	instead	of	keeping	the	feet	still,	step	forward	in

practice,	but	instead	of	keeping	the	feet	still,	step	forward	in
dynamic	holding	phase.
•	As	the	arms	recover	over	the	surface,	keep	the	feet	still.
Remember
	The	torso	is	propelled	forward	and	the	arms	flow
lightly	through	the	air.
Avoid
	Do	not	over-arch	the	back	or	keep	it	too	straight.	Do	not
tense	the	arms.
3.	Two	complete	strokes,	breathing	on	the	second	one
Combine	poise,	power,	ease	and	fluidity.


•	Glide	with	relaxed	arms	extended	to	a	width	that	is	a	little
narrower	than	shoulder	width.
•	Undulate	forward	and	down,	release	the	legs	so	that	they	are
slightly	bent	and	then	actively	press	them	down	to	start	the
elevation	of	the	body	towards	the	surface.
•	Use	the	arms	to	pull	the	body	towards	the	surface,	allowing
the	eyes	to	look	ahead	but	without	bringing	them	out	of	the
water.
•	Release	the	arms	as	they	pass	your	thighs;	at	this	point	begin
to	press	the	chest	forward	and	release	the	hips	so	that	the
arms	can	flow	through	the	air	easily.	The	arms	enter	the
water	rotated	slightly	outwards.

water	rotated	slightly	outwards.
•	Glide	until	you	feel	a	second	smaller	undulation	pass	through
you.
•	Repeat	the	same	sequence	as	for	the	first	movement,	raising
the	eye	level	more	during	the	arms’	propulsive	phase	so	that
the	mouth	breaks	the	surface	(3a)	and	you	inhale	gently.
•	Bring	the	face	swiftly	back	into	the	water	and	start	to	exhale
(3b)	as	the	arms	recover	over	the	surface	(3c).
Remember
	The	first	stronger	leg	beat	occurs	when	the	arms
are	extended,	the	second	during	the	recovery.
Avoid
	Do	not	apply	too	much	force	with	the	legs,	creating	a	big
splash.
One	complete	stroke
1.	Start	with	arms	forward,	eyes	looking	slightly	forward	and
knees	released.
2.	Press	the	head	down.	Hips	move	up	as	the	legs	extend,	eyes
down.
3.	Raise	the	head,	bring	the	eyes	up,	flex	the	wrist	and	bend

3.	Raise	the	head,	bring	the	eyes	up,	flex	the	wrist	and	bend
the	elbows	as	hips	start	to	move	forward.
4.	With	eyes	leading	hold	the	water,	press	the	chest	and	hips
forward,	hands	relaxed.

FINAL	WORD
I	suggested	earlier	that	fitness	objectives	need	to	be	put	to	one
side	until	you	can	move	well	in	the	water.	The	tendency	to	drift
back	to	old	habits	is	greatest	when	swimming	the	full	stroke,	so
continue	working	with	the	Shaw	Method	practices.	They	will
keep	you	mindful	of	the	core	features	of	each	stroke	and	many
of	them,	as	well	as	promoting	good	form,	can	be	incorporated
into	your	exercise	routine.	For	example,	the	front	crawl	practice
where	the	body	rotates	and	the	arms	perform	an	underwater
recovery	can	be	developed	into	a	good	cardiovascular	workout
by	turning	the	head	to	breathe.
As	each	stroke	has	its	own	essential	character	and	rhythm	it
is	beneficial	to	swim	a	variety.	However,	avoid	chopping	and
changing	too	often	as	it	takes	time	settle	into	each	stroke.	I,
personally,	find	it	takes	me	at	least	ten	minutes	to	get
accustomed	to	a	stroke’s	subtleties	before	I	am	ready	to	move
on.	One	of	the	best	ways	to	assimilate	this	work	is	to	share
your	experience	with	others.	For	example,	if	you	are	struggling
to	co-ordinate	the	arms	and	legs	in	breaststroke,	it	is	useful	to
offer	to	teach	someone	else	an	aspect	of	the	stroke	that	you
have	already	grasped.	Apart	from	boosting	morale	this	will
deepen	your	own	understanding.
Many	are	enticed	by	the	prospect	of	swimming	freely	in	a
natural	environment,	for	others	this	has	long	been	an
unattainable	dream.	Whatever	your	starting	point,	having
invested	time	and	effort	mastering	the	art	of	swimming,	the
allure	of	open	water	is	likely	to	be	very	strong.	By	all	means
pursue	this	ambition	and	enjoy	the	sense	of	freedom	that	it
brings	but	get	to	know	the	new	environment	and	take	care.
Simon	Murie	of	SwimTrek,	a	channel	swimmer	and	seasoned
open	water	guide,	never	swims	more	than	100	meters	out	to
sea	unaccompanied.	Others	may	be	drawn	to	training	for	some
form	of	competition	such	as	master	swimming	or	triathlon.	This
is	a	great	way	to	reap	the	rewards	of	your	mindful	practice	and
meet	other	swimming	enthusiasts.	Remember	to	pay	attention

meet	other	swimming	enthusiasts.	Remember	to	pay	attention
to	good	form	and	do	not	get	too	distracted	by	results.
Shaw	Method	essentials
Below	is	a	useful	summary	of	the	principles	underpinning	the
Shaw	Method	learning	process.
•	The	maintenance	of	a	balanced	head-neck-back	(HNB)
relationship	is	key.	Whatever	is	happening	with	the	rest	of
your	body	is	secondary.	The	HNB	affects	
your	swimming
performance	more	than	anything	else,	particularly	when	it
comes	to	the	transition	between	water	and	air.
•	Remember	that	before	every	propulsive	movement	there	is	a
vital	non-propulsive	action.	Undue	effort	in	the	non-propulsive
phase	undermines	the	ability	to	achieve	an	effective	purchase
on	the	water.
•	Give	attention	to	directing	yourself	forward	rather	than	pulling
backwards.	This	can	also	be	a	metaphor	for	the	rest	of	your
life.
•	Efficient	swimming	is	more	about	learning	to	let	go	than	it	is
about	doing	more.	Be	patient	with	yourself	and	remember
that	trying	to	get	it	right	is	often	the	biggest	impediment	to
the	learning	process.	Be	gentle	with	yourself	as	changing	your
relationship	with	water	can	stir	up	powerful	emotions.
•	Always	co-ordinate	breathing	with	the	stroke.	Breath-holding
is	not	recommended!
•	Your	swimming	will	develop	better	when	backed	up	by	work
out	of	the	water.	Dry	land	practices	are	a	remarkably	effective
way	of	establishing	new	patterns	of	movement.
•	Think	in	terms	of	phases	rather	than	positions.	In	order	to
learn	the	strokes	it	has	been	necessary	to	break	the
movements	down	into	their	essential	parts.	When	swimming
continuously,	flow	rhythmically	from	one	phase	to	the	next.
•	Cultivate	a	mindful	approach	and	learn	to	interact	artistically
with	the	water.	Stop	working	against	the	water	and	start
swimming	with	it.

swimming	with	it.
•	Don’t	judge	your	performance	by	others’	standards.
Remember	swimming	is	an	adventure	into	the	unknown,	not	a
struggle	to	get	things	right.
•	Finally,	remember	to	be	creative,	have	fun	and	explore	the
water.	Don’t	be	dogmatic,	there	is	more	than	one	way	to
cross	a	river.	My	own	swimming	and	the	Method	continue	to
evolve.
Equipment
Swimming	is	accessible	to	all	and	does	not	require	much
equipment.	It	is	worth	splashing	out	on	a	decent	costume	and	a
good	pair	of	goggles.	Avoid	suits	that	trap	air	or	water	and	for
woman	make	sure	there	is	ample	space	for	the	arms	to	move
freely.	From	the	wide	range	of	swimming	eyewear	available	I
find	Aqua	Sphere	offer	great	panoramic	vision	and	are	easy	to
adjust.	In	the	early	stages	of	learning	the	Shaw	Method	it	is
necessary	to	work	at	a	measured	pace	which	in	cooler	water
can	lead	to	physical	and	mental	tension.	Light	non-buoyant
thermal	tops,	available	at	dive	shops,	are	great	for	maintaining
a	comfortable	temperature.
Art	of	Swimming	learning	resources
The	Art	of	Swimming:	a	new	direction	with	the	Alexander
Technique
Steven	Shaw	and	Armand	D’Angour	(1997,	Ashgrove	Press).
This	book	provides	a	valuable	introduction	of	how	to	apply
Alexander	Technique	principles	to	swimming.
Art	of	Swimming	DVD
	explores	the	benefits	of	swimming
particularly	as	the	ideal	remedy	for	stress.	Filmed	in	the	Red
Sea,	this	film	is	an	inspirational	adventure	into	the	art	of
swimming.
Shaw	Method	Steps	VHS
	This	video,	featuring	individual	and
partner	practices,	shows	a	series	of	steps	for	breaststroke,	front
crawl	and	backstroke.	It	is	ideal	for	both	water	confident

swimmers	and	teachers	wishing	to	view	core	Shaw	Method
practices.
Laminated	pool	cards
	with	our	unique	series	of	progressive
stroke-by-stroke	practices.
There	is	also	a	range	of	stroke	specific	DVD’s	that	combine
footage	of	dry	land	practices	with	clear	underwater	and	above
water	sequences.	These	include	
Learn	to	Crawl	Again,	Time	to
Fly,	Breaststroke	with	Ease
	and	
Better	your	Backstroke.
Lessons	in	the	Art	of	Swimming
Although	this	book	and	the	various	learning	resources	are	very
useful	there	is	no	substitute	for	the	experience	of	learning	with
a	registered	Shaw	Method	teacher	(RSMT).	Art	of	Swimming
offers	a	comprehensive	package	of	learning	opportunities.
These	include	one	to	one	lessons,	weekly	classes,	day
workshops,	residential	courses,	corporate	events	and	swimming
holidays.	Lessons	take	place	in	a	variety	of	venues,	which	have
been	selected	to	provide	a	calm,	focused	learning	environment.
To	find	out	more	visit	
www.artofswimming.com
,	or	call	+44	(0)
20	8446	9442.
Learning	the	Alexander	Technique
Shaw	Method	work	is	best	combined	with	lessons	in	the
Alexander	Technique.	The	teacher	will	use	explanation	and	a
guiding	touch	to	help	you	rediscover	balance	and	ease	within
yourself.	Through	experience	and	observation,	you	learn	to
develop	your	body	awareness,	how	you	create	tension	and	how
to	prevent	or	release	it.	Although	your	teacher	is	unlikely	to	be
a	specialist	in	working	with	people	in	the	water,	your	new	skill
and	understanding	will	positively	impact	on	your	approach	to
swimming.	Visit	
www.stat.org.uk
	to	find	out	more.

GLOSSARY
Bilateral	breathing
	Breathing	on	both	sides	in	front	crawl	as
opposed	to	unilateral	breathing,	which	is	on	just	one	side.	In
terms	of	good	use,	a	bilateral	pattern	is	clearly	preferable	as	it
promotes	symmetry.
Breaststroker’s	knee
	Most	knee	injuries	are	related	to	the	use
of	the	whip	kick.	‘Breaststroker’s	knee’	is	the	result	of	repetitive
stress	to	the	Medial	Collateral	Ligament.
Drag
	This	impedes	motion;	the	level	of	drag	is	determined	by
the	degree	of	resistance	created	by	an	object’s	size,	shape	or
orientation.	This	is	one	of	the	reasons	why	a	bus	moves	more
slowly	than	a	sports	car	and	why	the	rotated	orientation	in
crawl	is	more	streamlined	than	the	flatter	positioning	of
breaststroke.
Explosive	breathing
	A	common	practice	in	competitive
swimming	where	breath	is	held	and	then	blown	out	forcefully
just	prior	to	inhalation.
Holding	the	water
	The	idea	of	using	the	arms	as	levers	to
transport	the	torso	forward	rather	than	the	common	tendency
of	pulling	back.	Front	arm	crawl	action	is	similar	to	pulling	along
a	rope.
Hyperventilation
	Unusually	deep	or	rapid	breathing	often
caused	by	anxiety	or	habit,	leading	to	a	feeling	of
breathlessness	and	sometimes	faintness.
Screw	Kick
	An	uneven	breaststroke	leg	action	in	which	one
foot	is	turned	in	and	the	other	turned	out	throwing	one	side	of
the	pelvis	forward	with	each	kick;	it	strains	the	sacro-iliac	joint
and	is	potentially	injurious.
Sculling
	A	motion	employing	rotational	hand	movements	often
in	a	figure	of	eight,	which	can	be	performed	on	the	back,	front
or	vertically.	It	helps	develops	a	‘feel	for	the	water’	important	to
all	strokes.
Swimmer’s	shoulder	(tendonitis)
	An	injury	that	develops
through	misuse	of	the	shoulder	joint	(rotator	cuff)	resulting	in
inflammation	and	pain.	The	body	rotation	and	relaxed	recovery

employed	in	Shaw	Method	crawl	reduce	the	incidence	of	this.
Treading	water
	A	skill	requiring	a	combination	of	limb
movements	in	order	to	remain	upright	in	the	water	without
submersing	the	face.	There	are	various	ways	of	treading	water
with	good	alignment	which	do	not	require	much	effort.
Trickle	breathing
	Gradual	exhalation	with	the	face	in	the
water.
Tumble	turn
	A	spin	and	underwater	push	off	from	the	wall
used	in	back	and	front	crawl,	incorporating	a	half	forward
somersault	and	twist.	Tumble	turns	allow	you	to	swim	laps
continuously	without	losing	rhythm.
Undulation
	A	wave-like	action	of	the	body	employed	in
breaststroke	and	butterfly.

INDEX
Alexander,	F.M.	&	Alexander	Technique	
8
,	
12-17
,	
21-2
,	
31
,	
108
,	
172
see	also
	specific	principles	(eg	use)
alignment	mistakes
backstroke	
83
breaststroke	
53
butterfly	
143
crawl	
109
anchor	phase
backstroke	
95
,	
97
crawl	
118
,	
119
arm	action
backstroke	
82
,	
93-4
,	
95-9
,	
100-1
,	
104
breaststroke	
52
,	
53
,	
54-9
,	
69-73
butterfly	
142
,	
143
,	
148-51
,	
152-65
crawl	
108-9
,	
118-26
arm	extended,
	backstroke	
93-4
arm	with	legs,
	breaststroke	
70-1
arms	stepping,
	crawl	
123
Australian	crawl	
see
	crawl
author’s	experiences	
10-17
babies	
8
,	
108
back
floating	on	the	back
	
35
,	
44-5
see	also
	head-back-neck	relationship
backstroke	
82-3
arm	action	
82
,	
93-4
,	
95-9
,	
100-1
,	
104
breathing	
83
,	
100
integration	
100-5
orientation	and	leg	action	
83-94
,	
104
balance	and	stability	
29
bellows,
	core	practice	
35
,	
37-8
benefits
backstroke	
82
breaststroke	
49
,	
53
,	
60
butterfly	
49
,	
142-3
crawl	109.170
swimming	
6
,	
25
,	
28
,	
49
bilateral	breathing	
128
,	
173
body	balance,
	butterfly	
144-6
breastafly,
	butterfly	
158-9
breaststroke	
49
,	
52-3
,	
78-9
,	
142
arm	action	
52
,	
53
,	
54-9

breaststroker’s	knee	
53
,	
173
leg	action	
52
,	
53
,	
60-7
,	
173
risks	and	common	mistakes	
9
,	
11
,	
52
,	
53
timing,	rhythm	and	breathing	
52-3
,	
68-79
breathing	
30-1
backstroke	
83
,	
100
bilateral	and	unilateral	
128
,	
173
breaststroke	
68-79
breathing	in	(inhalation)	
22
,	
31
,	
32
,	
32
,	
166
breathing	out	(exhalation)	
31
,	
32
,	
32-3
,	
58
,	
166
,	
173
butterfly	
143
,	
166-9
core	practices	
31-3
crawl	
118
,	
126-39
explosive	
173
hyperventilation	
32
,	
166
,	
173
mouth	
8
trickle	breathing	
32
,	
58
,	
173
buoyancy	
9
,	
24
,	
28-9
,	
42
,	
110
,	
118
floating	
8
,	
28-9
,	
83
butterfly	
49
,	
142-3
arm	action	
142
,	
143
,	
148-51
,	
152-65
breathing	
143
,	
166-9
leg	action	
142
,	
143
,	
144-51
undulation	
143-51
,
	
173
centre	to	the	side,
	crawl	
114-15
centre	to	side	rotation
,	backstroke	
92-3
chair	practice,
	breaststroke	
68-9
common	mistakes	
see
	habits;	risks	and	common	mistakes
competitiveness	
6
,	
8
complete	leg	action,
	breaststroke	
66-7
complete	strokes	
see
	full	strokes
continuous	full	strokes
backstroke	
104-5
breaststroke	
78-9
butterfly	
167-9
crawl	
138-9
core	practices	
28
,	
30-49
costumes	
171
crawl	
29
,	
108-9
,	
170
arm	action	
108-9
,	
118-26
back	crawl	
see
	backstroke
breathing	
118
,	
126-39
orientation	and	leg	action	
108
,	
109-18
,	
131-3
risks	and	common	mistakes	
23
,	
109
rotation	
108
,	
109
,	
116-18
,	
126-7
,	
132-5

displacement	(relative	density)	
28
dolphin-like	leg	action	
142
,	
143
,	
144-51
end	gaining	
21
exhalation	
31
,	
32
,	
32-3
,
	
58
,	
166
,	
173
explosive	breathing	
173
extending	the	arm	and	turning	the	head,	crawl	
128-9
extension	phase
backstroke	
95
,	
97
breaststroke	
54
butterfly	
152
crawl	
118
,	
118-19
eyewear	
171
facial	tension	and	breath	control,
	core	practice	
33
facing	the	water,
	core	practice	
35
,	
40
faults	
see
	habits;	risks	and	common	mistakes
faulty	sensory	appreciation	
22
feet
finding	the	feet,
	core	practice	
43-4
regaining	
45
fencer,
	crawl	
112-13
fitness	
see
	benefits
floating	
8
,	
28-9
,	
83
floating	on	the	back,
	core
practice	
35
,	
44-5
floating	arms
backstroke	
98-9
breaststroke	
58
foundation	(core)	practices	
28
,	
30-49
free	neck	
73
frog	with	the	face	down,
	breaststroke	
63-4
frog	kick	
60
,	
62-7
front	crawl	
see
	crawl
front	leg	action,
	crawl	
112
full	arm	sequence	–	stepping
,	backstroke	
100-1
full	strokes
backstroke	
102-5
breaststroke	
77-9
butterfly	
162-5
,	
167-9
crawl	
124-5
,	
136-9
giving	directions	
21
glide
breaststroke	
52
,	
53
,	
57
,	
69-70
,
	
78
butterfly	
144-6
glide,
	core	practice	
35
,	
42-4

glide,
	crawl	
110
goggles	
171
gravity	
28
habits	
22-3
,	
25
,	
52
,	
170
see	also
	risks	and	common	mistakes
handshake	phase,	crawl	
118
,	
121
head-back-neck	relationship	
8
,	
29
,	
42
,	
43
,	
170
free	neck	
73
head	held	out	of	water	
15
,	
52
,	
53
,	
83
,	
109
,	
166
rolling	the	head,
	breaststroke	
73-4
see	also
	primary	control
health	benefits	
see
	benefits
history
backstroke	
82
breaststroke	
52
butterfly	
142
crawl	
108
holding	the	water	
173
hydrostatic	pressure	
see
	resistance
hyperventilation	
32
,	
166
,	
173
inhalation	(breathing	in)	
22
,	
31
,	
32
,	
32
,	
166
inhibition	
21-2
injuries	
9
,	
53
,	
83
,	
109
,	
173
integration,	backstroke	
100-5
journals	
14
kinaesthetic	awareness	
21
land	practices	
24
,	
171
backstroke	
83-4
,	
98-9
breaststroke	
54-5
,	
68-9
,	
73-4
butterfly	
154-5
,	
167
core	
31-2
crawl	
118-21
,	
126-7
,	
128-9
,	
131
leg	action
backstroke	
82
,	
83-94
,	
104
breaststroke	
52
,	
53
,	
60-7
,
	
173
butterfly	
142
,	
143
crawl	
109
,	
109-18
,	
131-3
leg	extension,
	breaststroke	
61
leg	press
backstroke	
84-5
crawl	
110-11
legs	to	the	side
backstroke	
90-1

crawl	
128-9
lever	phase,	butterfly	
152
lunge,
	core	practice	
35
,	
39-40
lunge	and	breathe,
	crawl	
130
lunging	with	the	face	submerged
,	core	practice	
35
,	
41
mistakes	
see
	habits;	risks	and	common	mistakes
misuse	
13
,	
43
nasal	and	oral	seal,
	core	practice	
32-3
neck	
see
	head-back-neck	relationship
nodding	joint	
73
non-doing	
22
,	
42
non-propulsive	movements	
30
,	
170
observation	and	feedback	
25
Old	English	backstroke	
82
one	complete	stroke/cycle
backstroke	
102-3
breaststroke	
77-8
crawl	
124-5
one	leg	at	a	time,
	breaststroke	
64-5
open	water	swimming	
170
opening	out	phase,	breaststroke	
54
,	
58
opening	stance	
34
oral	inhalation,
	core	practice	
32
oral	and	nasal	seal,
	core	practice	
32-3
orientation
backstroke	
82
,	
83-94
breaststroke	
52
,	
78
butterfly	
142
crawl	
108
,	
109-18
see	also
	alignment	mistakes
over-breathing	(excessive	inhalation)	
22
,	
32
partner	work	
25
,	
170
passive	inhalation	
32
performance	measurement	
6
,	
9
,	
171
practice	sessions	
9
,	
24-5
,	
170
core	practices	
28
,	
30-49
land-based	
see
	land	practices
partner	work	
25
,	
170
pool-based	
see
	specific
practices	(eg	
retro	walking)
pool	choice	
23-4
preparatory	phase,	breaststroke	
60
primary	control	
12
,	
21
breathing	and	primary	control,
	core	practice	
31

see	also
	head-back-neck	relationship
propulsion	
30
,	
170
backstroke	
83
breaststroke	
53
,	
60
,	
78
butterfly	
142
,	
143
,	
145
crawl	
109
propulsive	phase
backstroke	
95
,	
96
,	
98
butterfly	
152
crawl	
118
,	
119-20
psychophysical	patterns	
8
,	
13
,	
21
pull-lift	phase,	breaststroke	
54
recovery	phase
backstroke	
95
,	
96
,	
98
,	
99
,
	
100
breaststroke	
54
butterfly	
152
crawl	
118
resistance	
24
,	
29-30
breathing	against	resistance,
	core	practice	
33
retro	walking,
	core	practice	
35
,	
36-7
returning	the	face,
	crawl	
137-8
rhythm	
see
	timing	and	rhythm
risks	and	common	mistakes
backstroke	
83
breaststroke	
9
,	
11
,	
52
,	
53
butterfly	
143
crawl	
23
,	
109
head	held	out	of	water	
15
,	
52
,	
53
,	
83
,	
109
,	
166
see	also
	habits
rolling	the	head,
	breaststroke	
73-4
rolling	out	to	breathe,
	crawl	
134-7
rotation
backstroke	
82
,	
83-4
,	
92-3
,	
96
crawl	
108
,	
109
,	
116-18
,	
126-7
,	
132-5
rotation,
	core	practice	
35
,	
46-7
rotator	cuff	
83
,	
173
salute	phase,	crawl	
118
,	
120-1
scooping,
	breaststroke	
54-5
screw	kick	
53
,	
67
,	
173
sculling	
173
seal,	oral	and	nasal	seal,
	core	practice	
32-3
seated	leg	press,
	backstroke	
84-5
self-development	
8
sensory	appreciation,	faulty	
22
Shaw	Method,	key	features	
8
,	
16-17
,	
20-1
,	
170-1

backstroke	
82
breaststroke	
52-3
butterfly	
142
crawl	
108-9
shoulders
shoulder	hunching	
9
,	
11
,	
53
swimmer’s	shoulder	
173
side	–	centre,
	crawl	
116-17
side	kick,
	crawl	
113-14
side	step	to	breathe,
	crawl	
131
sidestepping,
	backstroke	
89
sideways	movements	
37
single	arm	backstroke	
97-8
single	arm	stepping
backstroke	
95-6
crawl	
118-21
soaring,
	butterfly	
155-7
spreading	your	wings,
	butterfly	
152-3
stability	and	balance	
29
stance,	opening	
34
standing	floating	arm,
	backstroke	
98-9
standing	leg	action,
	backstroke	
86-7
standing	start,
	crawl	
122
startle	response	
22
step	and	glide,
	breaststroke	
57
stepping,
	breaststroke	
56
stepping	and	sliding	the	arms,	butterfly	
154-5
stillness	
23
stroke	faults	
see
	habits;	risks	and	common	mistakes
stroke	mechanics,	efficiency	
30
sumo	stance,
	breaststroke	
62
supported	frog,
	breaststroke	
62-3
swimmer’s	shoulder	
173
swimming	floating	arm,
	backstroke	
99
swimming	leg	action,
	backstroke	
88
swimsuits	
171
temperature,	pool	
24
tendonitis	
109
,	
173
tension	
29
,	
33
thinking	in	activity	
22
,	
23
,	
25
,	
171
thrust	phase,	breaststroke	
60
timing	and	rhythm
backstroke	
82
,	
83
,	
100
breaststroke	
52-3
,	
68-79
butterfly	
142
,	
143
crawl	
109
,	
126

treading	water	
173
trickle	breathing	
32
,	
58
,	
173
tumble	turn	
173
two	full	strokes
breaststroke	
78
butterfly	
162-5
,	
167-9
crawl	
136-7
undulation	
173
butterfly	
143-51
unilateral	breathing	
128
upright	wave,
	butterfly	
146-7
use	
21
,	
28
,	
30
,	
52
walking
retro	walking,
	core	practice	
35
,	
36-7
walk	four	swim	four,
	backstroke	
104
walk	four	swim	four,
	crawl	
125
walking	breaststroke	
74-7
weightless	walking,
	core	practice	
34-6
wave
butterfly	
146-51
,	
156-7
core	practice	
35
,	
47-9
weightless	walking	
34-6
whip	kick	
52
,	
53
,	
60
,	
173
windmilling	
82
,	
100
,	
109

Further	Reading
Body	Learning:	An	Introduction	to	the	Alexander	Technique
	Michael	Gelb	(Aurum
Press,	1994)	
Body	Mind	Mastery:	Creating	success	in	sport	and	life
	Dan	Millman
(New	World	Library,	1999)	
Flow
	M	Csikenthmihaly	(Harper	&	Row,	1990)
Haunts	of	the	Black	Masseuse
	Charles	Sprawson	(Vintage,	1993)
Indirect	Procedures:	A	musicians	guide	to	the	Alexander	Technique
	Pedro	de
Alcantara	(Clarendon,	1997)	
In	Praise	of	Slow
	Carl	Honore	(Orion,	2004)
Master	the	Art	of	Running
	Malcolm	Balk	&	Andrew	Shields	(Collins	&	Brown,	2006)
Swimming	for	the	Health	of	it
	E	Maglischo	&	C	Ferguson	Brenan	(Mayfield	1985)
The	Owner’s	Guide	to	the	Body
	Roger	Golten	(Thorsons,	1999)
The	Alexander	Technique	–	as	I	see	it
	Patrick	Macdonald	(Rahula	Books,	1989)	
The
Art	of	Swimming:	A	new	direction	using	the	Alexander	Technique
	S	Shaw	&	A
D’Angour	(Ashgrove,	1996)	
The	Use	of	the	Self:	F	Mathias	Alexander
	(Gollancz,
1935,	1985)	
Total	Immersion	Terry
	Laughlin	&	John	Delves;	(Simon	&	Schuster,
1996)	
Waterlog:	A	Swimmers	Journey	Through	Britain
	Roger	Deakin	(Vintage,
2000)

	
	
First	published	in	the	United	Kingdom	in	2006
This	edition	first	published	in	2009	by	Collins	&	Brown
1	Gower	Street
London,	WC1E	6HD
An	imprint	of	Pavilion	Books	Company	Ltd	Copyright	©	Collins	&	Brown	2006
Text	copyright	©	Steven	Shaw	2006
The	right	of	Steven	Shaw	to	be	identified	as	the	author	of	this	work	has	been
asserted	by	him	in	accordance	with	the	Copyright,	Designs	and	Patents	Act	1988
All	rights	reserved.	No	part	of	this	publication	may	be	reproduced,	stored	in	a
retrieval	system,	or	transmitted	in	any	form	or	by	any	means,	electronic,	mechanical,
photocopying,	recording	or	otherwise,	without	the	prior	written	permission	of	the
copyright	owner.
eISBN	978-1-910231-55-5
Published	in	the	United	Kingdom	as	eBook	in	2015
Pool	facilities	and	most	photography	was	provided	by	Graham	and	Yulia	Parker	of
Swimming	Pictures,	
www.swimpix.com
,	apart	from	the	following	pages:	
7
,	
18-19
,
26-27
,	
80-81
,	
106-107
,	
140
	Zillah	Crosby	and	
31
,	
32
,	
54
,	
55
,	
68
,	
69
,	
73
,	
74
,	
84
,	
85
,
126
,	
127
,	
131
,	
154
	Guy	Hearn	
www.pavilionbooks.com
Dedication
Dedicated	to	the	memory	of	my	great	teacher	Zeev	Tadmore	who	gave	me	the
confidence	to	truly	explore	my	relationship	with	the	water	from	an	Alexander
Technique	perspective.
Acknowledgments
I	wish	to	thank	my	parents	Helen	and	Maurice	Shaw	for	their	encouragement	and
unwavering	support.	The	material	in	this	book	is	the	result	of	work	over	the	years
and	I	am	indebted	to	all	of	my	colleagues,	students	and	pupils	for	helping	me	turn
my	passion	into	a	career.	Particular	credit	goes	to	Charlotte	Parry-Crooke,	Malcolm
Balk,	Philip	Tibenham	and	Armand	D’Angour.

Balk,	Philip	Tibenham	and	Armand	D’Angour.
I	wish	to	thank	Limor	Shaw	who	is	currently	developing	the	work	in	Israel,	for	her
deep	understanding	and	long-term	commitment	to	the	Shaw	Method.	To	my	friend
and	colleague	Gillian	Jordan	for	making	it	possible	to	train	others	to	teach	this
Method	and	for	her	help	and	suggestions	with	the	text.
I	would	like	to	thank	Zillah	Crosby,	my	life	partner,	for	backing	me	up	on	every	stage
of	this	project.	Without	her	insightful	contributions	and	attention	to	detail	this	book
would	have	been	infinitely	inferior.
I	would	like	to	acknowledge	the	many	people	who	directly	contributed	to	the	creation
of	this	book.	To	Graham,	Yulia	Parker,	David	Tozer	together	with	Zillah	Crosby	and
John	Paul	for	the	excellent	photography.	Thanks	to	Joanne	Makin	for	her	skilful
illustrations.	Thanks	also	to	the	models	Jennifer	Evans,	Vicky	Harmer,	Deborah	and
Helen	Stevens	and	Huseyin	Dermis	who	skilfully	embody	the	Shaw	Method.	To
Margaret	and	Tony	Farrell	for	their	kindness	and	patience	in	allowing	us	to	use	their
pool	in	Esher.	Finally	thanks	to	Jonathon	Drake	and	Andrew	Crosby	for	their
assistance	and	suggestions	with	the	manuscript.