Nutrition and Metabolism in Sports, 
Exercise and Health
The second edition of Nutrition and Metabolism in Sports, Exercise and Health  offers a clear 
and comprehensive introduction to sport and exercise nutrition, integrating key nutri -
tional facts, concepts and dietary guidelines with a thorough discussion of the funda -
mental biological science underpinning physiological and metabolic processes. 
Informed by the latest research in this fast- moving discipline, the book includes brand 
new sections on, amongst others:
•	 Cellular	structure	for	metabolism
•	 Alcohol	and	metabolism
•	 Uncoupling	protein	and	thermogenesis
•	 Dietary	guidelines	from	around	the	world
•	 Nutrient	timing
•	 Protein	synthesis	and	muscle	hypertrophy
•	 Protein	supplementation
•	 Ergogenic	effects	of	selected	stimulants
•	 Nutritional	considerations	for	special	populations
•	 Dehydration	and	exercise	performance
	 Each	 chapter	 includes	 updated	 pedagogical	 features,	 including	 definitions	 of	key	
terms,	chapter	 summaries,	 case	studies,	 review	questions	 and	suggested	 readings.	 A	
revised and expanded companion website offers additional teaching and learning fea -
tures,	such	as	PowerPoint	slides,	multiple-	 choice	question	banks	and	web	links.
	 No	book	goes	further	in	explaining	 how	nutrients	 function	 within	our	biological	
system, helping students to develop a better understanding of the underlying mechan-
isms and offering the best grounding in applying knowledge to practice in both improv -
ing	athletic	performance	 and	preventing	 disease.	As	such,	 Nutrition and Metabolism in 
Sports, Exercise and Health  is essential reading for all students of sport and exercise 
science, kinesiology, physical therapy, strength and conditioning, nutrition or health 
sciences.
Jie Kang	is	Professor	 in	the	Department	 of	Health	and	Exercise	 Science	at	The	College	
of	New	Jersey,	USA.	He	is	a	fellow	of	the	American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	 (ACSM)	
and	an	ACSM	certified	 Clinical	 Exercise	 Specialist.	 Dr	Kang	is	a	scholar	in	Exercise	
Metabolism	 and	has	taught	a	variety	of	exercise	 science	courses	including	 Applied	Physi -
ology,	Nutrition	 and	Metabolism.	 He	has	also	served	as	a	director	 for	the	ACSM	Certifi -
cation	Workshop	and	Examination.

Nutrition and Metabolism in 
Sports, Exercise and Health
Second	Edition
Jie Kang

Second	edition	published	2018  
by Routledge 
2	Park	Square,	Milton	Park,	Abingdon,	Oxon	OX14	4RN
and by Routledge 
711	Third	Avenue,	New	York,	NY	10017
Routledge is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business
©	2018	Jie	Kang
The	right	of	Jie	Kang	to	be	identified	as	author	of	this	work	has	been	asserted	by	
him	in	accordance	with	sections	77	and	78	of	the	Copyright,	Designs	and	Patents	
Act	1988.
All	rights	reserved.	No	part	of	this	book	may	be	reprinted	or	reproduced	or	
utilized in any form or by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now 
known or hereafter invented, including photocopying and recording, or in any information storage or retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publishers.
Trademark notice
:	Product	or	corporate	names	may	be	trademarks	or	registered	
trademarks,	and	are	used	only	for	identification	and	explanation	without	intent	
to infringe.
Every	effort	has	been	made	to	contact	copyright-	 holders.	Please	advise	the	
publisher of any errors or omissions, and these will be corrected in subsequent 
editions.
First	edition	published	by	Routledge	2012
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data 
A	catalogue	record	for	this	book	is	available	from	the	British	Library
Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data
Title:	Nutrition	and	metabolism	in	sports,	exercise,	and	health	/	  
[edited	by]	Jie	Kang.
Description:	Second	edition.	|	Abingdon,	Oxon	;	New	York,	NY	:	Routledge,	
[2018]	|	Includes	bibliographical	references	and	index.
Identifiers:	LCCN	2017040192|	ISBN	9781138687578	(hardback)	|	
ISBN  9781138687585	(pbk.)
Subjects:	LCSH:	Nutrition.	|	Athletes--Nutrition.
Classification:	LCC	QP141	.N77	2018	|	DDC	613.2--dc23
LC	record	available	at	https://lccn.loc.gov/2017040192
ISBN:	978-1-138-68757-8	(hbk)  
ISBN:	978-1-138-68758-5	(pbk)  
ISBN:	978-1-315-54225-6	(ebk)
Typeset	in	Baskerville  
by	Wearset	Ltd,	Boldon,	Tyne	and	Wear
Visit the eResource: www.routledge.com/9781138687585

Contents
 List of figures  vii
 List of tables  x
	1	 Introduction	 1
	2	 Macronutrients:	carbohydrates	 21
	3	 Macronutrients:	lipids	 46
	4	 Macronutrients:	proteins	 63
	5	 Micronutrients:	vitamins	 77
	6	 Micronutrients:	minerals	and	water	 105
	7	 Digestion	and	absorption	 132
	8	 Energy	and	energy-	 yielding	metabolic	pathways	 162
	9	 Nutrients	metabolism	 190
10	 Guidelines	for	designing	a	healthy	and	competitive	diet	 212
11	 Ergogenic	aids	and	supplements	 245
12	 Nutrition	and	metabolism	in	special	cases	 279
13	 Measurement	of	energy	consumption	and	output	 314
14	 Body	weight	and	composition	for	health	and	performance	 341
15	 Energy	balance	and	weight	control	 373
16	 Thermoregulation	and	fluid	balance	 408
Appendix	A:	metric	units,	English–metric	conversions,	and	cooking  
measurement	equivalents	 433
Appendix	B:	chemical	structure	of	amino	acids	 435
Appendix	C:	dietary	reference	intakes	for	energy,	macronutrients,  
and	micronutrients	 436

vi  Contents
Appendix	D:	estimated	energy	requirement	calculations	and	physical	  
activity	values	 442
Appendix	E:	daily	values	used	in	food	labels	with	a	comparison	  
to	RDAs	 444
Appendix	F:	world	anti-	 doping	code	international	standard	  
prohibited	list	 445
Appendix	G:	directions	for	conducting	three-	 day	dietary	analysis	 454
Bibliography 	 458
Index	 492

Figures
1.1	 Leading	preventable	causes	of	death	 3
1.2	 Levels	of	organization	in	organisms	 6
1.3	 Cellular	structure	 8
1.4	 The	scientific	method	of	inquiry	 13
2.1	 Chemical	structure	of	the	three	monosaccharides	depicted	in	both	the	
linear	and	ring	configurations	 23	
2.2	 Chemical	structure	of	the	three	disaccharides	depicted	in	the	ring	
configurations	 25
2.3	 Comparison	of	some	common	starches	and	glycogen	 26
2.4	 The	availability	of	carbohydrate	determines	how	fatty	acids	are	
metabolized	 31
2.5	 Regulation	of	blood	glucose	homeostasis	by	insulin	and	glucagon	 33
3.1	 Chemical	structure	of	saturated,	monounsaturated,	and	
polyunsaturated	fatty	acids	 48
3.2	 Cis-	versus	trans-	 fatty	acids	 49
3.3	 Chemical	forms	of	common	lipids	 51
3.4	 Saturated,	monounsaturated,	and	polyunsaturated	fatty	acid	content	of	
various	sources	of	dietary	lipid	 54
4.1	 The	main	components	of	an	amino	acid	 64
4.2	 Condensation	of	two	amino	acids	to	form	a	dipeptide	that	contains	a	
peptide	bond	 66
4.3	 Protein	structure	in	primary,	secondary,	tertiary,	and	quaternary	
configurations	 67
4.4	 Food	sources	of	protein	 70
5.1	 Vitamin	D	and	its	role	in	the	regulation	of	calcium	homeostasis	 86
5.2	 Vitamin	E	functions	as	an	antioxidant	that	protects	the	unsaturated	
fatty	acids	in	cell	membranes	by	neutralizing	free	radicals	 90
5.3	 The	role	of	vitamin	K	in	the	blood-	 clotting	process	 92
5.4	 Various	roles	which	water-	 soluble	vitamins	play	in	metabolic	pathways	 94
5.5	 The	role	of	vitamin	B6	in	protein	metabolism,	synthesis	of	
neurotransmitters,	and	energy	production	 98
6.1	 Normal	cycle	of	bone	remodeling	 112
6.2	 The	action	of	the	selenium-	 containing	enzyme	glutathione	peroxidase	 119
6.3	 Fluid	compartments	and	their	relative	proportions	to	the	total	fluid	
volume	for	an	average	individual	 124
6.4	 Water	flows	in	the	direction	of	the	more	highly	concentrated	solutions	
due	to	osmosis	 125
6.5	 Effect	of	osmosis	on	cells	 125

viii  Figures
	7.1	 Hydrolysis	reaction	of	the	disaccharide	sucrose	to	the	end-product	
molecules	glucose	and	fructose	(a)	and	condensation	reaction	of	two	
glucose	molecules	forming	maltose	(b)	 134
	7.2	 Sequences	and	steps	in	the	“lock	and	key”	mechanism	of	enzyme	
action	 136
	7.3	 Gastrointestinal	tract	and	accessory	organs	of	the	digestive	system	 137
	7.4	 The	small	intestine	contains	folds,	villi,	and	microvilli,	which	increase	
the	absorptive	surface	area	 146
	7.5	 Nutrients	are	absorbed	from	the	lumen	into	absorptive	cells	by	simple	
diffusion,	facilitated	diffusion,	and	active	transport	 147
	7.6	 Process	of	satiety	 151
	8.1	 An	adenosine	tri-	 phosphate	(ATP)	molecule	 166
	8.2	 A	bomb	calorimeter	 167
	8.3	 Glycolytic	pathway	in	which	glucose	or	glycogen	is	degraded	into	
pyruvic	acid	 	 173
	8.4	 Structure	of	a	mitochondrion	 174
	8.5	 The	three	stages	of	the	oxidative	pathway	of	ATP	production	 175
	8.6	 The	schematic	of	reaction	that	a	triglyceride	molecule	is	hydrolyzed	to	
free	fatty	acids	and	glycerol	 177
	8.7	 The	time	course	of	oxygen	uptake	(VO2)	in	the	transition	from	rest	to	
submaximal	exercise	 180
	8.8	 Schematic	illustration	of	a	biological	control	system	 181
	9.1	 An	example	of	gluconeogenesis	during	which	the	muscle-	 derived	
lactate is converted into glucose and this newly formed glucose then 
circulates	back	to	muscle	 194
	9.2	 An	example	of	gluconeogenesis	during	which	the	muscle-	 derived	
alanine is converted into glucose and this newly formed glucose then 
circulates	back	to	muscle	 195
	9.3	 Illustration	of	 ß–oxidation	 198
	9.4	 Schematic	illustration	of	glucose	and	fatty	acid	cycle	or	Randle	cycle	 200
	9.5	 Protein	synthesis:	transcription	and	translation	 204
	9.6	 Major	metabolic	pathways	for	various	amino	acids	following	the	
removal	of	the	nitrogen	group	by	transamination	or	deamination	 205
10.1	 Comparison	of	estimated	average	requirements	(EARs)	and	
recommended	dietary	allowances	(RDAs)	 219
10.2	 Estimated	energy	requirement	(EER)	 220
10.3	 MyPyramid:	Steps	to	a	Healthier	You	 224
10.4	 A	sample	Nutrition	Facts	panel	 227
11.1	 Possible	mechanisms	of	how	creatine	supplementation	works	in	
improving	performance	and	body	composition	 265
11.2	 Metabolic	pathways	for	producing	DHEA	and	androstenedione	 266
11.3	 Possible	mechanisms	of	how	nitric	oxide	(NO)	improves	exercise	
performance	 273
12.1	 Food	guides	pyramid	for	older	adults	 292
12.2	 Excess	oxygen	cost	of	walking	and	running	per	kilogram	body	mass	in	
children	of	various	ages	compared	with	young	adults	 295
12.3	 Sample	plasma	glucose	and	insulin	responses	during	a	three-	 hour	oral	
glucose	tolerance	test	before	and	after	aerobic	training	 298
12.4	 Hypothetical	dose–response	relation	between	hormone	concentration	
and	its	biological	effect	 299
12.5	 Schematics	of	metabolic	inflexibility	associated	with	insulin	resistance	 301

Figures   ix
13.1	 Measuring	tools	commonly	used	in	dietary	analysis	 318
13.2	 An	example	of	a	food	frequency	questionnaire	 320
13.3	 Direct	calorimetry	chamber	 325
13.4	 An	open-	 circuit	indirect	calorimetry	system	 326
13.5	 Examples	of	digital	pedometers	 330
13.6	 Illustration	of	ActiheartTM	which	combines	HR	and	motion	monitoring	
to	track	physical	activity	and	energy	expenditure	 334
13.7	 An	example	of	a	SenseWearTM	armband	 335
14.1	 An	example	of	the	gender-	 specific	BMI-	 for-age	percentiles	 346
14.2	 The	two-	 compartment	model	for	body	composition	 348
14.3	 Illustration	of	the	Archimedes’	Principle	 358
14.4	 Hydrostatic	weight	using	electronic	load	cells	and	platform	 359
14.5	 Air	displacement	plethysmograph	 360
14.6	 Dual-	 energy	X-	 ray	absorptiometer	 362
14.7	 Common	skinfold	calipers	 363
14.8	 Common	bioelectrical	impendence	analyzers	 367
15.1	 Operation	of	leptin	in	maintaining	body	fat	at	a	set-	 point	level	 376
15.2	 Response	of	oxygen	uptake	during	steady-	 state	exercise	and	recovery	 380
15.3	 Comparisons	of	metabolic	rate	during	and	after	HIIT	vs.	traditional	
workout	 401
16.1	 Factors	that	contribute	to	body	temperature	homeostasis	 409
16.2	 Heat	exchange	avenues	and	thermoregulation	during	exercise	 411
16.3	 Flow	chart	for	the	causes	and	progression	of	heat	injuries	 424
B.1–B.20	 	 Chemical	structure	of	amino	acids:	(1)	Histidine,	
(2) Tryptophan,	(3)  Glycine,	(4)  Methionine,	(5)  Leucine,	
(6) Alanine,	(7)  Arginine,	(8)  Lysine,	(9)  Proline,	(10)  Glutamic	
acid,	(11)  Aspartic	acid,	(12)  Serine,	(13)  Phenylalanine,	
(14) Isoleucine,	(15)  Tyrosine,	(16)  Glutamine,	(17)  Asparagine,	
(18) Threonine,	(19)  Valine,	(20)  Cysteine	 435

Tables
1.1	 Leading	causes	of	death	in	the	US	 3
1.2	 Nutrient	functions	in	the	body	 11
1.3	 Chemical	elements	in	the	six	classes	of	nutrients	 11
1.4	 Energy	content	of	macronutrients	and	alcohol	 12
2.1	 Classification	of	fibers	 27
2.2	 Selected	foods	sources	of	carbohydrate	 28
2.3	 The	dietary	fiber	content	in	selected	common	foods	 29
2.4	 Glycemic	Index	(GI)	and	Glycemic	Load	(GL)	values	of	common	foods	 34
2.5	 Alcohol	and	energy	content	of	selected	alcoholic	beverages	 37
3.1	 Fat	content	of	commonly	selected	foods	 53
3.2	 Omega-	 3	fatty	acid	content	of	fish	and	seafood	 54
3.3	 Cholesterol	content	of	commonly	selected	foods	 55
3.4	 Results	of	Thomas’s	dietary	analysis	 60
4.1	 Essential	and	nonessential	amino	acids	 65
4.2	 Analysis	of	Catlin’s	food	intake	 74
5.1	 Tips	for	preventing	nutrient	loss	 81
5.2	 Functions,	sources,	deficiency	diseases,	and	toxicity	symptoms	for	
fat-	soluble	vitamins	 83
5.3	 Food	sources	of	vitamin	A	 84
5.4	 Food	sources	of	vitamin	D	 85
5.5	 Food	sources	of	vitamin	E	 89
5.6	 Food	sources	of	vitamin	K	 92
5.7	 A	summary	of	water-	 soluble	vitamins	 95
6.1	 A	summary	of	the	major	minerals	 109
6.2	 Water	content	of	various	foods	 128
7.1	 Important	gastrointestinal	secretions	and	their	functions	 139
7.2	 Hormones	that	regulate	digestion	 145
7.3	 Major	sites	of	absorption	along	the	gastrointestinal	tract	 146
8.1	 Digestibility,	heat	of	combustion,	and	net	physiological	energy	values	
of	dietary	protein,	lipid,	and	carbohydrate	 168
8.2	 Method	for	calculating	the	caloric	value	of	a	food	from	its	composition	
of	macronutrients	 169
8.3	 Availability	of	energy	substrates	in	the	human	body	 170
8.4	 Energy	source	of	muscular	work	for	different	types	of	sporting	events	 178
8.5	 Selected	hormones	and	their	catabolic	role	in	maintaining	energy	
homeostasis	 184
8.6	 Interaction	of	epinephrine	and	norepinephrine	with	adrenergic	
receptors	 185

Tables   xi
	9.1	 Percentage	of	energy	derived	from	the	four	major	sources	of	fuel	
during	moderate	intensity	exercise	at	65	to	75	percent	VO2max	 193
	9.2	 Expected	nitrogen	balance	status	among	various	individuals	 203
	9.3	 Results	of	Steve’s	metabolic	tests	 209
10.1	 Physical	activity	(PA)	categories	and	values	 221
10.2	 MyPyramid	recommendations	or	daily	food	consumption	based	on	
calorie	needs	 	 225
10.3	 Energy	expenditure	in	kilocalories	per	hour	based	on	body	mass	 230
10.4	 Sample	pre-	and	post-	 exercise	meals	 236
10.5	 A	modified	regimen	to	supercompensate	muscle	glycogen	stores	 237
11.1	 International	Olympic	Committee	Medical	Commission	doping	  
categories	 248
11.2	 Nutrient	composition	of	selected	top-	 selling	sports	bars	 252
11.3	 Comparison	of	energy	and	carbohydrate	content	of	Gatorade	and	
energy	drink	 	 253
11.4	 Description	of	selected	sports	supplements	and	their	ergogenic	claims	 256
11.5	 Caffeine	content	of	some	common	foods,	beverages,	and	medicines	 260
12.1	 The	actions	of	estrogen	and	progesterone	on	carbohydrate	and	fat	
metabolism	 283
12.2	 Food	choices	important	for	women’s	health	 285
12.3	 Comparisons	of	energy	cost	of	household	activities	in	pregnant	and	
non-	pregnant	women	 286
12.4	 Daily	food	checklist	recommended	for	pregnancy	 288
12.5	 Aging-	 related	metabolic	changes	and	their	physiological	consequences	 289
12.6	 Average	maximal	aerobic	power	in	children	and	adolescents	 294
12.7	 Substrate	utilization	during	aerobic	exercise	in	patients	with	IDDM	
and	NIDDM	as	compared	to	healthy	controls	 307
13.1	 Advantages	and	disadvantages	of	various	methods	assessing	diet	 317
13.2	 Normal	blood	values	or	reference	range	of	nutritional	relevance	 323
13.3	 Thermal	equivalents	of	oxygen	for	the	non-	 protein	respiratory	
quotient	(RQ)	and	percentages	of	calories	derived	from	
carbohydrate	and	fat	 328
13.4	 Advantages	and	disadvantages	of	various	objective	field	methods	for	
assessing	physical	activity	and	energy	expenditure	 331
14.1	 1983	gender-	 specific	height–weight	tables	proposed	by	the	
Metropolitan	Life	Insurance	Company	 343
14.2	 Elbow	breadth	classifications	for	males	and	females	of	various	statures	 344
14.3	 Classification	of	obesity	and	overweight	and	disease	risk	associated	with	
body	mass	index	and	waist	circumference	 345
14.4	 Percent	body	fat	standards	for	healthy	and	physically	active	men	and	
women	 347
14.5	 Selected	population-	 specific	fat-	 free	mass	density	 350
14.6	 Physical	characteristics	of	somatotypes	and	their	suitability	in	sports	 354
14.7	 Example	of	computing	a	weight	goal	 356
14.8	 Ranges	of	body	fat	percentages	for	male	and	female	athletes	of	
selected	sports	 	 357
14.9	 Generalized	equations	for	predicting	body	density	(Db)	for	adult	men	
and	women	 365
15.1	 Original	and	revised	Harris–Benedict	equations	 378
15.2	 Factors	that	affect	resting	metabolic	rate	(RMR)	 379
15.3	 Energy	expenditure	during	various	physical	activities	 381

xii  Tables
15.4	 Comparisons	of	studies	that	have	examined	energy	cost	of	resistance	
exercise	 382
15.5	 General	recommendations	for	a	weight	loss	diet	 389
15.6	 Selected	food	substitutes	for	reducing	fat	and	caloric	intake	 391
15.7	 Exercise	guidelines	and	sample	prescription	plan	for	maximizing	
energy	expenditure	and	long-	 term	weight	control	 397
15.8	 Comparisons	of	fat	and	total	calories	expended	during	stationary	
cycling	at	50	and	70	percent	VO2max	 398
16.1	 Illustration	of	heat	production	and	heat	loss	at	rest	and	during	
exercise	of	varying	intensities	 413
16.2	 Signs	and	symptoms	of	dehydration	 415
16.3	 Composition	of	commonly	used	carbohydrate	beverages	 421
C.1 Dietary	reference	intakes	(DRIs):	recommended	dietary	allowances	
and adequate intakes, total water and macronutrients. Food and 
Nutrition	Board,	Institute	of	Medicine,	National	Academies	 436
C.2	 Dietary	reference	intakes	(DRIs):	recommended	dietary	allowances	
and	adequate	intakes,	vitamins.	Food	and	Nutrition	Board,	Institute	of	
Medicine,	National	Academies	 438
C.3	 Dietary	reference	intakes	(DRIs):	recommended	dietary	allowances	
and	adequate	intakes,	elements.	Food	and	Nutrition	Board,	Institute	of	
Medicine,	National	Academies	 440
D.1	 Estimated	energy	requirement	calculations	 442
D.2	 Physical	activity	values	 443
E.1	 Daily	values	used	in	food	labels	with	a	comparison	to	RDAs	 444
G.1	 Sample	recording	sheet	 457

1 Introduction
Contents
Key terms 1
Good health and strong performance: nutrition connection 2
•	 What	is	nutrition?	 2
•	 Why	study	nutrition?	 2
•	 Role	of	nutrition	in	fitness,	health,	and	performance	 4
Chemical and biological aspects of nutrition 5
•	 Chemistry	of	life	 5
•	 Cells	and	their	components	 7
Nutrients 8
•	 What	are	nutrients?	 9
•	 Classes	of	nutrients	 9
•	 Chemical	composition	of	nutrients	 10
•	 The	energy-	 yielding	nutrients	 10
•	 How	much	of	each	nutrient	do	we	need?	 12
What	is	reliable	nutritional	information?	 13
•	 Scientific	methods	 13
•	 Types	of	research	 15
•	 Judging	nutritional	information	 16
Summary	 17
Case study 18
Review	questions	 19
Suggested	reading	 19
Glossary	 19
Key terms
•	 Acids	 •	 Atoms
•	 Bases	 •	 Buffer
•	 Control	group	 •	 Cytosol
•	 Double-	 blind	study	 •	 Element
•	 Endoplasmic	reticulum	 •	 Energy-	 yielding	nutrients
•	 Epidemiological	research	 •	 Essential	nutrients

2  Introduction
•	 Experimental	research	 •	 Golgi	apparatus
•	 Hypothesis	 •	 Inorganic	nutrients
•	 Ions	 •	 Macronutrients
•	 Malnutrition	 •	 Micronutrients
•	 Mitochondria	 •	 Molecule
•	 Morbidity	 •	 Nonessential	nutrients
•	 Nucleus	 •	 Nutrients
•	 Nutrition	 •	 Obesity
•	 Organelles	 •	 Organic	compounds
•	 Over-	nutrition	 •	 Placebo
•	 Ribosomes	 •	 Risk	factor
•	 Single-	 blind	study	 •	 Sports	nutrition
•	 Under-	 nutrition
Good health and strong performance: nutrition connection
Nutrition and its impact on health and performance are of crucial importance. Nutritional 
deficiencies	 were	once	a	major	health	challenge	 in	most	developed	 countries.	 However, 	
what	we	are	facing	now	is	the	fact	that	nutritional	 abundance	 contributes	 to	many	of	
today’s	health	problems.	 In	order	to	choose	foods	that	satisfy	your	personal	 and	cultural	
preferences,	 but	also	contribute	 to	a	healthy	diet	and	prevent	diseases,	 you	must	have	
information	 about	what	nutrients	 you	require,	what	role	they	play	in	health	and	perform-
ance,	and	what	foods	contain	them.	You	must	also	be	able	to	judge	the	validity	of	the	nutri-
tion	information 	you	encounter. 	Your	body	uses	the	nutrients 	from	foods	to	make	all	its	
components,	 fuel	all	its	activities,	 and	defend	itself	against	diseases.	 How	successfully	 your	
body	handles	these	tasks	depends,	 in	part,	on	your	food	choices	and	your	understanding	 of	
the principles of nutrition. Nutritious food choices support a healthy and strong body.
What is nutrition?
Nutrition 	is	a	science	that	links	foods	to	health	and	diseases.	 It	studies	the	structure	 and	
function	 of	various	food	groups	and	the	nutrients	 they	contain.	 It	also	includes	 the	bio-
logical	processes	 by	which	our	body	consumes	 food	and	utilizes	the	nutrients.	 The	
science	of	nutrition	 also	concerns	 the	psychological,	 social,	cultural,	 economic,	 and	
technological	factors	that	influence	which	food	we	choose	to	eat.
Why study nutrition?
Nutrition	 has	played	a	significant	 role	in	your	life,	even	from	before	your	birth,	although	
you	may	not	always	be	aware	of	it.	It	will	continue	 to	affect	you	in	major	ways	depending	
on	the	foods	you	select.	Not	meeting	 nutrient	 needs	in	younger	 years	make	us	more	
likely	to	suffer	health	consequences	 in	later	years.	At	the	same	time,	taking	too	much	of	
a	nutrient	 can	be	harmful.	 A	poor	diet	and	a	sedentary	 lifestyle	are	known	to	be	the	
major	risk	factors	for	life-	threatening	 chronic	diseases	 such	as	heart	disease,	hyperten -
sion,	diabetes,	 and	some	forms	of	cancer,	which	together	 amount	 to	two-	thirds	of	all	
deaths	in	North	America	 (Table 	1.1). 	Such	linkage	between	 lifestyle	and	chronic	 dis-
eases	is,	in	part,	mediated	 through	 the	development	 of	obesity,	a	condition	 attributable	
to	a	positive	energy	balance	 (i.e.,	energy	brought	 in	via	foods	>	energy	expended	 via	
physical	 activities).	 Most	of	these	chronic	diseases	mentioned	 above	are	the	comorbidity 
(a	diseased	 state,	disability	 or	poor	health)	of	obesity.	In	fact,	obesity	is	considered	 to	be	
the	second	cause	of	preventable	death	in	North	America	(Figure	1.1).

Introduction 		3
	 Needless	 to	say,	your	food	choice	today	can	affect	your	health	tomorrow.	 Understand -
ing	nutrition	 will	allow	you	to	make	wise	choices	about	foods	you	consume,	 thus	improv-
ing	health	and	fitness.	You	must	be	aware,	however,	 that	making	 appropriate	 food	
choices	is	not	an	easy	task,	and	can	be	influenced	 by	many	outside	factors.	For	example,	
a	decision	 should	be	preceded	 by	your	answer	to	questions	 such	as:	Are	you	active?	Are	
you	an	athlete?	 Are	you	planning	 a	pregnancy?	 Are	you	trying	to	prevent	the	physical	
decline	that	occurs	with	aging?	Did	your	mother	die	of	a	heart	attack?	Does	cancer	run	
in	your	family?	Are	you	trying	to	lose	weight	or	eat	a	vegetarian	 diet?	Is	your	heritage	
Asian,	African,	 European,	 or	Central	or	South	American?	 In	order	to	choose	foods	that	
satisfy your personal and cultural preferences but also contribute to a healthy diet and 
prevent	diseases,	 you	must	not	only	have	information	 about	what	nutrients	 you	require	Table 1.1	Leading	causes	of	death	in	the	US
Rank Cause of death Total deaths (%)
 1Heart	diseases	(primarily	coronary	heart	disease)1,229
 2 Cancer1,323
	3Cerebrovascular	diseases	(stroke)1,2,3	7
	4Chronic	obstructive	pulmonary	diseases	and	allied	conditions	  
	(lung	diseases)3 5
 5Accidents	and	adverse	effects2	4
	6Diabetes1	3
	7Influenza	and	pneumonia 	3
 8Alzheimer’s	disease1 2
	9 Kidney diseases1,3 2
10Blood-borne	infections  1
Source:	Center	for	Disease	Control	and	Prevention,	National	Vital	Statistical	Report,	Final	data.
Notes
1	Causes	of	death	in	which	diet	plays	a	part.
2	Causes	of	death	in	which	excessive	alcohol	consumption	plays	a	part.
3	Causes	of	death	in	which	tobacco	use	plays	a	part.


'HDWKVSHU\HDU
6PRNLQJ
2YHUZHLJKW
DQGREHVLW\$OFRKRO
,QIHFWLRXVGLVHDVHV7R[LQV
0RWRUYHKLFOHFROOLVLRQV)LUHDUPV
6H[XDOO\WUDQVPLWWHGLQIHFWLRQV'UXJDEXVH
Figure 1.1 	Leading	preventable	causes	of	death

4		Introduction
and	what	foods	contain	them,	but	also	understand	 the	role	nutrients	 play	in	the	body	
and	how	they	may	contribute	 to	an	enhanced	 physical	 performance	 or	a	pathological	
process	that	leads	to	a	disease.	You	must	also	be	able	to	judge	the	validity	of	the	nutri-
tion	information	 you	encounter.	 Should	you	be	taking	antioxidant	 supplements,	 eating	
fat-	free	foods,	or	drinking	 calcium-	fortified	 orange	juice?	Should	you	believe	the	story	or	
testimony	 you	saw	on	the	news	about	a	weight	loss	diet	or	protein	supplement?	 Filtering	
out	the	worthless	 requires	 a	solid	understanding	 of	principles	 of	nutrition,	 the	nutrient	
contents	 of	foods,	the	function	 of	nutrition	 in	the	body,	as	well	as	the	process	by	which	
scientists study nutrition.
Role of nutrition in fitness, health, and performance
The	two	primary	factors	that	influence	 one’s	health	status	are	genetics	 and	lifestyle.	 Most	
chronic	diseases	 have	a	genetic	basis.	The	Human	Genome	 Project,	which	deciphered	
the	DNA	code	of	our	80,000	to	100,000	 genes,	has	identified	 various	genes	associated	
with	many	chronic	diseases.	 Genetically,	 females	whose	mothers	 had	breast	cancer	are	at	
increased	 risk	for	breast	cancer,	while	males	whose	fathers	had	prostate	 cancer	are	at	
increased	 risk	for	prostate	 cancer.	Scientists	 now	have	the	ability	to	analyze	the	genetic	
basis	underlying	 various	diseases,	 and	such	information	 may	be	used	to	evaluate	 indi-
vidual	susceptibility.	 For	individuals	 with	genetic	profiles	predisposing	 them	to	a	specific	
chronic	disease,	genetic	therapy	may	provide	an	effective	treatment	or	cure.
	 Genetic	 influence,	 as	well	as	lifestyle,	 may	play	an	important	 role	in	the	development	
of	chronic	 disease.	 Recent	studies	have	suggested	 that	lifestyle,	 particularly	 one	that	
incorporates	a	healthy	diet	and	exercise,	may	provide	the	best	hope	for	living	a	healthier	
and	longer	life.	It	is	the	most	proactive	 and	cost-	effective	 approach	 to	addressing	 an	
increasing	 prevalence	 of	these	chronic	diseases	 in	our	society.	Over	the	years,	scientists	
in	the	field	of	epidemiology	 have	identified	 a	number	 of	lifestyle-	related	risk	factors.	A	
risk factor 	is	a	health	behavior	 or	pre-	existing	condition	 that	has	been	associated	 with	a	
particular	 disease,	such	as	cigarette	 smoking,	 physical	inactivity,	 stress,	insulin	resistance,	
hyperlipidemia,	 etc.	Proper	diet	and	exercise	 have	been	found	to	be	able	to	reduce	
many	of	these	risk	factors,	thereby	preventing	 diseases.	 It	is	believed	 that	such	a	health-
ier	lifestyle	can	also	intertwine	 with	one’s	genetic	profile.	In	other	words,	what	you	eat	
and	how	you	exercise	may	influence	your	genes.
	 Proper	 nutrition	 is	an	important	 component	 in	the	total	training	 program	 of	the	
athlete.	The	consumption	 of	energy-	containing	 nutrients	 such	as	carbohydrate	 provides	
the	fuel	necessary	 for	increased	 biological	 work.	Nutrient	 deficiencies	 can	seriously	
impair	performance,	 whereas	 nutrient	 supplementation	 may	delay	fatigue	and	improve	
performance.	 Nutritional	 status	can	be	a	major	factor	differentiating	 athletes	of	compar-
able	genetic	 endowment	 and	state	of	training.	 Regular	 training	 allows	athletes	 to	
improve	 their	performance	 by	enhancing	 biomechanical	 skills,	sharpening	 psychological	
focus,	and	maximizing	 physiological	 functions.	 However,	 gains	in	these	areas	can	be	
directly	potentiated	 or	undermined	 by	various	dietary	factors	associated	 with	the	athlete.	
For	example,	 losing	excess	body	fat	will	enhance	 biomechanical	 efficiency;	 consuming	
carbohydrate	 during	exercise	 may	prevent	hypoglycemia	 and	thus	fatigue;	and	providing	
adequate	dietary	iron	may	ensure	optimal	oxygen	delivery	to	the	working	muscles.
 Sports nutrition 	represents	 one	of	the	fast-	growing	 areas	of	study	within	recent	years.	
It	is	the	study	and	practice	 of	nutrition	 and	diet	as	it	relates	to	athletic	performance.	
Although	 scientists	 have	studied	the	interactions	 between	 nutrition	 and	various	forms	of	
sports	and	physical	 activities	 for	more	than	a	century,	 it	is	only	within	the	past	few	
decades	 that	extensive	 research	 has	been	undertaken	 regarding	 the	specific	guidelines	
and	recommendations	 to	athletes.	 Louise	Burke,	a	prominent	 sports	nutritionist	 from	

Introduction   5
Australia,	 defines	sports	nutrition	 as	the	application	 of	eating	strategies	 to	promote	 good	
health	and	adaptation	 to	training,	 to	recover	quickly	after	each	exercise	 training	session,	
and	to	perform	 optimally	 during	competition.	 A	sound	understanding	 of	sports	nutri-
tion	enables	one	to	appreciate	 the	importance	 of	adequate	 nutrition,	 and	to	critically	
evaluate	 the	validity	of	claims	concerning	 specific	dietary	modifications	 and	nutrient	
supplements	 to	enhance	 physique,	 physical	 performance,	 and	exercise	 training	
responses.	 Knowledge	 of	the	nutrition-	 metabolism	 interaction	 forms	the	basis	for	prepa-
ration,	performance,	 and	recovery	 phases	of	intense	exercise	 or	training.	 Many	physic-
ally	active	individuals,	 including	 some	of	the	world’s	best	athletes,	 obtain	nutritional	
information	 from	magazine	 and	newspaper	 articles,	advertisements,	 training	 partners,	
and	testimonials	 from	successful	 athletes,	 rather	than	from	well-	informed	 and	well-	
educated	 coaches,	 trainers,	 physicians,	 and	fitness	and	sports	nutrition	 professionals.	 Far	
too	many	cases	have	been	reported	 where	athletes	devote	considerable	 time	and	energy	
striving	for	optimum	 performance,	 only	to	fall	short	due	to	inadequate,	 counterproduc -
tive,	and	sometimes	harmful	nutritional	practices.
	 Nutrition	 plays	a	significant	 role	in	one’s	life.	“Good	nutrition”	 encompasses	 more	
than	preventing	 nutrient	 deficiencies	 or	inadequacies	 related	to	diseases.	 It	also	forms	
the	foundation	 of	one’s	fitness,	physical	 performance,	 and	overall	well-	being.	As	you	
gain	understanding	 about	your	nutritional	 habits	and	increase	 your	knowledge	 about	
optimal	nutrition,	 you	will	have	the	opportunity	 to	reduce	your	risk	for	many	common	
diseases,	 to	sustain	the	demands	 placed	upon	your	body,	and	to	stay	healthy,	 fit,	and	
strong.
Chemical and biological aspects of nutrition
The	human	body	comprises	 carbon,	 hydrogen,	 oxygen,	 nitrogen,	 and	a	few	other	
assorted	 elements.	 When	jointed	together,	 these	elements	 are	transformed	 into	large,	
functional,	 and	life-	sustaining	 compounds,	 or	molecules,	 such	as	proteins,	 carbohy-
drates,	lipids,	and	nucleic	acids.	Cells	carry	out	the	vital	functions	 of	life.	Our	bodies	are	
made	up	of	trillions	 of	cells	which	differ	vastly	in	size,	function,	 and	shape.	Cells	of	
similar	structure	 and	function	 form	tissues.	Four	different	 types	of	tissues	comprise	 over	
40	organs,	which	makes	up	11	unique	organ	systems.	Understanding	 the	chemical	 com-
pounds found in food and their many roles in the biological processes of life is funda -
mental to the study of nutrition.
Chemistry of life
The	organization	 of	atoms	into	molecules,	 molecules	 into	macromolecules,	 macromole -
cules	into	cells,	cells	into	tissues,	tissues	into	organs,	and	organs	into	organ	systems	is	
illustrated	 in	Figure 	1.2. 	This	entire	circuitry	 is	made	of	and	fueled	by	the	nutrients	 con-
tained	in	food.	Before	discussing	 the	concept	 of	nutrients,	 it	is	important	 to	have	a	basic	
understanding	 of	chemistry	 –	the	science	that	deals	with	composition,	 structure,	 prop-
erties,	and	change	of	matter.
	 The	sub-	microscopic	 particles,	 called	 atoms,	are	the	fundamental	 units	that	make	up	
the	world	around	us.	The	atom	itself	consists	of	still	smaller	units:	uncharged	 neutrons	
and	positively	 charged	 protons,	 both	housed	in	the	center	or	nucleus	of	the	atom.	Elec-
trons,	which	have	a	negative	 charge,	orbit	the	nucleus	of	an	atom	in	spaces	called	shells.	
In	most	cases,	the	net	positive	charge	of	protons	 is	balanced	 by	an	equal	number	 of	
electrons.	 When	the	number	 of	protons	 having	positive	 charges	 equals	the	number	
of	electrons	 having	negative	 charges,	 atoms	is	neutral.	However,	 it	is	possible	 for	atoms 
to	gain	or	lose	electrons.	When	this	occurs,	the	numbers	of	protons	and	electrons	are	no	

6		Introduction
longer	equal.	As	a	result,	an	atom	has	a	net	positive	or	negative	 charge.	Atoms	that	have	
an	unequal	 number	 of	protons	and	electrons	 are	called	 ions.	However,	 it	is	important	 to	
note	that	molecules	 can	also	be	ions.	For	example,	 the	hydroxide	 ion	(OH-),	which	con-
sists	of	a	hydrogen	 and	oxygen	atom,	has	an	overall	net	negative	 charge.	An	ion	with	a	
net	positive	charge	is	called	a	cation,	and	an	ion	with	a	net	negative	 charge	is	called	an	
anion.	Important	 ions	found	in	the	human	body	include	sodium	(Na+),	potassium	 (K+),	
calcium	(Ca2+),	chloride	(Cl–),	iodide	(I–),	and	fluoride	(F–).
	 An	 element	is	defined	as	a	pure	substance	 made	up	of	only	one	type	of	atom.	There	
are	approximately	 92	naturally	 occurring	 elements,	 20	of	which	are	essential	 for	human	
health.	In	fact,	just	six	elements	 –	carbon,	oxygen,	 hydrogen,	 nitrogen,	 calcium,	 and	
phosphorous	 –	account	 for	99	percent	of	total	body	weight.	These	basic	elements	 com-
prise	macromolecules,	 such	as	proteins,	 carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	nucleic	acids,	found	
in	living	systems.
	 When	 two	hydrogen	 atoms	and	one	oxygen	atom	are	chemically	 joined	together,	 a	
molecule	 of	water	is	formed.	A	molecule 	is	defined	as	two	or	more	atoms	joined	together	
by	chemical	 bonds.	A	molecular	 formula,	 such	as	H2O,	is	used	to	describe	 the	number	
and	types	of	atoms	present	in	a	molecule.	 For	examples,	 glucose,	 an	important	 source	of	
energy	in	the	body,	has	a	molecular	 formula	 of	C6H12O6.	These	numbers	 and	letters	tell	
us	that	a	molecule	 of	glucose	consists	of	6	carbon,	12	hydrogen,	 and	6	oxygen	atoms.	
Some	molecules,	 such	as	oxygen	(O2)	consist	of	only	one	type	of	atom.	Most	molecules,	
however,	 are	made	up	of	different	 atoms.	Molecules	 composed	 of	two	or	more	different	
atoms,	such	as	water	(H2O)	and	glucose	(C6H12O6),	are	called	compounds.
	 The	acidity	of	a	molecule	 or	compound	 is	a	frequent	 issue	of	discussion	 in	nutrition.	
Grapefruits	 and	lemons	have	a	sour	taste,	whereas	 baking	soda	tastes	bitter.	Pure	water	
has	no	taste	at	all.	These	taste	differences	 are	attributed,	 in	part,	to	the	level	of	acidity,	Organism
TissueCellOrganelleMacromoleculeMoleculeAtom
Organ system
Organ
Figure 1.2	Levels	of	organization	in	organisms
Source:	Shier	 et al.	(2010).	Used	with	permission.

Introduction 		7
ranging	 from	acidic	(such	as	citrus)	to	neutral	(such	as	water),	or	alkaline	 (such	as	
baking	soda).	By	definition,	 acids	are	molecules	 that	release	hydrogen	 ions	(H+)	when	
dissolved	 in	water,	whereas	 bases	are	molecules	 that	release	hydroxide	 ions	(OH–).	The	
increased	 concentration	 of	hydrogen	 ions	causes	the	pH,	a	numeric	 scale	that	measures	
acidity,	of	a	solution	 to	decrease	 or	to	become	more	acidic.	Conversely,	 a	basic	substance	
such	as	sodium	hydroxide	 (NaOH)	 releases	 sodium	(Na+)	and	hydroxide	 (OH–)	ions	
when	dissolved	 in	water.	When	sodium	hydroxide	 is	dissolved	 in	an	acidic	solution,	 the	
hydroxide	 ions	(OH–)	combine	 with	hydrogen	 ions	(H+)	present	in	the	solution	 to	form	
water.	As	a	result,	the	concentration	 of	hydrogen	 ions	(H+)	in	the	solution	 decreases,	
thus	increasing	 pH.	Such	a	neutralizing	 process	partly	explains	 how	a	buffer	works	in	an	
effort	to	resist	changes	 in	pH	in	the	body.	A	buffer	is	a	solution	 that	reacts	with	both	
acids	and	bases	to	maintain	 a	constant	 pH.	Sodium	 bicarbonate	 is	the	most	common	
buffer	found	in	the	body.	It	helps	maintain	 pH	in	a	tight	range	and	provide	an	effective	
defense	against	acidosis	and	alkalosis.
Cells and their components
All	living	organisms	 consist	of	cells,	the	“building	 blocks”	of	the	body.	Cells	are	sur-
rounded	 by	a	protective	 cell	membrane.	 Within	the	cell,	small	membrane-	 bound	struc-
tures	called	organelles	 carry	out	specialized	 functions	 that	are	critical	for	life	
(Figure	1.3).
	 Cell	membranes	 (also	called	plasma	membranes)	 provide	a	boundary	 between	 extra-
cellular	(outside	 the	cell)	and	intracellular	 (within	the	cell)	environments.	 In	addition,	
cell	membranes	 regulate	 what	goes	into	or	out	of	cells.	The	unique	structure	 of	cell	
membrane	 can	be	compared	 to	that	of	a	sandwich.	 In	cell	membranes	 the	“slices	of	
bread”	are	made	up	of	two	phospholipid	 sheets,	called	the	phospholipid	 bilayer.	
Whereas	 a	sandwich	 may	have	meat	or	cheese	between	 the	slices	of	bread,	the	phospho-
lipid	bilayer	is	embedded	 with	protein,	 carbohydrate,	 and	cholesterol.	 More	details	on	
the	unique	arrangement	 of	phospholipid	 bilayer	are	given	in	Chapter 	3. 	Proteins	 associ-
ated	with	cell	membranes	 have	both	structural	 and	functional	 roles.	These	include	trans-
porting	materials	 into	and	out	of	cells,	acting	as	receptors	 for	other	molecules,	 and	
providing	 cell-	to-cell	communication.	 Cholesterol,	 a	type	of	lipid,	is	important	 for	mem-
brane	stability	 and	fluidity.	 Carbohydrates	 form	hair-	like	projections,	 which	act	like	
antennae	 and	enable	cells	to	recognize	 and	interact	with	each	other.	Carbohydrates	 also	
help communicate conditions outside of cells to the intracellular compartment.
	 Cells	are	like	microscopic	 cities;	they	are	full	of	activity.	Like	cities,	cells	have	factories	
for	manufacturing	 products,	 local	transport	 systems	to	move	materials,	 a	system	for	waste	
disposal,	 and	so	on.	These	activities	 are	carried	out	in	cells	by	structures	 called	
organelles ,	which	are	distributed	 in	the	gel-	like	intracellular	 matrix	called	 cytoplasm ,	or	
cytosol.	Each	organelle	 is	responsible	 for	a	specific	function.	 For	example,	 mitochondria 
serves	as	a	power	station,	converting	 energy-	yielding	 nutrients	 (glucose,	 fatty	acids,	and	
amino	acids)	into	a	form	of	energy	that	cells	can	use.	Another	 organelle,	 called	the	cell	
nucleus,	houses	the	genetic	material	 DNA,	which	provides	 the	“blueprint”	 for	protein	
synthesis.	 Information	 encoded	 in	the	DNA	is	transported	 out	of	the	nucleus	 to	
organelles called ribosomes ,	a	factory	site	for	protein	synthesis.	 Some	ribosomes	 are	
attached	 to	a	network	 of	membranous	 tubules	called	the	endoplasmic reticulum 	(ER),	
which	serves	as	the	“work	surface”	 for	protein	synthesis.	 Ribosomes	 give	the	ER	a	bumpy	
appearance.	 Therefore,	 protein-	producing	 ER	are	referred	 to	as	the	rough	endoplasmic	
reticula.	 Other	ER	are	involved	 with	lipid	synthesis.	 These	ribosome-	 free	ER	have	a	
smooth	appearance	 and	are	thus	referred	 to	as	the	smooth	endoplasmic	 reticula.	 Finally,	
substances	 made	by	the	two	forms	of	endoplasmic	 reticula	are	sent	for	further	processing	

8  Introduction
to another organelle called Golgi apparatus .	The	Golgi	apparatus	 modifies	 proteins	 and	
lipids,	resulting	 in	the	finished	 product.	 Once	complete,	 these	substances	 can	be	used	by	
the	cell	or	packaged	into	vesicles	and	exported	from	the	cell	via	exocytosis.
Nutrients
People	eat	to	receive	nourishment.	 Do	you	ever	think	of	yourself	 as	a	biological	 being	
made	up	of	carefully	 arranged	 atoms,	molecules,	 cells,	tissues,	and	organs?	 Are	you	
aware	of	the	activity	going	on	within	your	body	even	as	you	sit	still?	The	atoms,	mol-
ecules,	and	cells	of	your	body	continually	 move	and	change,	even	though	the	structures	MicrotubulesFlagellum
Nucleus
NucleolusNuclear
envelope
ChromatinRibosomes
Cell
membrane
Mitochondrion
Cilia
Microtubules LysosomeSmoothendoplasmicreticulumRoughendoplasmicreticulumMicrotubuleGlogi apparatusSecretory vesicleCentriolesMicrovilliBasel body
Figure 1.3 Cellular structure
Source:	Shier	 et al.	(2010).	Used	with	permission.

Introduction 		9
of	your	tissues	and	organs	and	your	external	 appearance	 remain	relatively	 constant.	 Your	
skin	that	has	covered	 you	since	your	birth	is	replaced	 entirely	by	new	cells	every	seven	
years.	The	fat	beneath	 your	skin	is	not	the	same	fat	that	was	there	a	year	ago.	Your	oldest	
red	blood	cell	is	only	120	days	old,	and	the	entire	lining	of	the	digestive	 tract	is	renewed	
every	 three	days.	To	maintain	 these	ongoing	 changes	 you	must	continually	 replenish,	
from	foods,	the	energy	and	the	nutrients	you	deplete	in	maintaining	the	life	of	your	body.
What are nutrients?
Nutrients 	are	substances	 contained	 in	food	that	are	necessary	 to	support	growth,	mainte-
nance,	and	repair	of	the	body	tissues.	Nutrients	 may	be	further	assigned	 to	three	func-
tional	categories:	 (1)	those	that	provide	us	with	energy;	(2)	those	that	are	important	 for	
growth,	development,	 and	maintenance;	 and	(3)	those	that	regulate	 biological	 processes	
to	keep	body	function	 running	 smoothly.	 Nutrients	 can	also	be	divided	into	essential	
and nonessential. Essential ,	also	referred	 to	as	indispensable,	 nutrients	 are	those	sub-
stances necessary to support life but they must be supplied in the diet because the body 
cannot	make	them	or	make	them	in	a	large	enough	quantity	 to	meet	needs.	Protein,	 for	
example,	 is	an	essential	 nutrient	 needed	for	growth	and	maintenance	 of	the	body	tissues	
and	the	synthesis	 of	regulatory	 molecules.	 Food	also	contains	 nutrients	 considered	 non-
essential.	Some	of	these	are	not	essential	 to	sustain	life	but	have	health-	promoting	 prop-
erties.	For	example,	 a	phytochemical	 (e.g.,	carotenoids)	 found	in	orange,	 red,	and	
yellow	fruits	and	vegetables	 is	not	essential	 but	may	reduce	the	risk	of	cancer.	Others	are	
required	 by	the	body	but	can	be	produced	 in	sufficient	 amounts	 to	meet	needs.	For	
example,	 lecithin,	 which	is	needed	 for	nerve	function,	 is	not	an	essential	 nutrient	
because it can be manufactured by the body.
Classes of nutrients
Chemically,	 there	are	six	classes	of	nutrients:	 carbohydrates,	 lipids,	proteins,	 vitamins,	
minerals,	 and	water.	Carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins	 provide	energy	to	the	body	and	
are thus also referred to as energy- yielding nutrients .	Along	with	water,	they	constitute	
the	major	proportion	 of	most	foods.	They	are	also	known	as	macronutrients  because 
they	are	required	 in	relatively	 large	amounts.	 Their	requirements	 are	measured	 in	kilo-
grams	(kg)	or	grams	(g).
	 Carbohydrates	 include	sugars	such	as	those	found	in	table	sugar,	fruit,	and	milk,	and	
starches	 such	as	those	in	vegetables	 and	grains.	Sugars	are	the	simplest	 form	of	carbohy-
drate,	and	starches	 are	more	complex	 carbohydrates	 made	up	of	many	sugars	linked	
together.	 Carbohydrates	 provide	a	readily	available	 source	of	energy	to	the	body.	Most	
fiber	is	also	carbohydrate.	 It	cannot	be	completely	 broken	down,	so	it	provides	 a	little	
energy.	However,	 it	is	important	 for	gastrointestinal	 health.	Fiber	is	found	in	vegetables,	
fruits,	legumes,	and	wholegrains.
	 Lipids,	 commonly	 referred	 to	as	fats	and	oils,	provide	a	storage	form	of	energy.	Lipids	
in	our	diets	come	from	foods	that	naturally	 contain	fats,	such	as	meat	and	milk,	and	
from	processed	 fats,	such	as	vegetable	 oils	and	butter,	that	we	add	to	food.	Most	lipids	
contain	fatty	acids,	some	of	which	are	essential	 in	the	diet.	Lipids	contain	more	energy	
than	carbohydrates.	 However,	 energy	utilization	 from	lipids	is	limited	because	it	involves	
a	more	complex	 metabolic	 process.	 The	amount	and	type	of	lipid	in	our	diet	affects	the	
risk	of	cardiovascular	and	metabolic	diseases	as	well	as	certain	types	of	cancer.
	 Protein,	 such	as	that	found	in	meat,	fish,	poultry,	milk,	grains,	and	legumes,	 is	needed	
for	growth	and	maintenance	 of	body	structure,	 and	regulation	 of	biological	 processes.	 It	
rarely	serves	as	an	energy	source.	Protein	is	made	up	of	units	called	amino	acids.	Twenty	

10		 Introduction
or	so	amino	acids	are	found	in	food,	and	some	of	them	are	considered	 essential.	 Dietary	
protein	must	meet	the	need	for	the	essential	 amino	acids.	Most	North	Americans	 eat	
about	one	and	a	half	to	two	times	as	much	protein	as	the	body	needs	to	maintain	 health.	
This	amount	 of	extra	protein	in	the	diet	is	generally	 not	harmful	 –	it	reflects	the	
standard	 of	living	and	dietary	habits	–	but	one	should	keep	in	mind	that	the	excess	can	
contribute to the storage of fat.
	 Vitamins	 and	minerals,	 on	the	other	hand,	are	referred	 to	as	micronutrients because 
they	are	needed	in	small	amounts	 in	the	diet.	The	amounts	 required	 are	expressed	 in	
milligrams	 (mg)	or	micrograms	 (µg).	They	do	not	provide	energy,	but	many	help	regu-
late	the	production	 of	energy	from	macronutrients.	 They	also	play	unique	roles	in	pro-
cesses	such	as	bone	growth,	oxygen	transport,	 fluid	regulation,	 and	tissue	growth	and	
development.	 Vitamins	 and	minerals	 are	found	in	most	of	the	foods	we	eat.	Fresh	foods	
are	good	natural	source	of	vitamins	 and	minerals,	 and	many	processed	 foods	have	micro-
nutrients	 added	to	them	during	manufacture.	 For	example,	 breakfast	 cereals	are	a	good	
source	of	iron	and	B	vitamins	 because	they	are	added	during	processing.	 While	process-
ing	can	cause	nutrient	 loss	due	to	light,	heat,	and	exposure	 to	oxygen,	with	the	addition	
of	certain	nutrients,	 frozen,	canned,	 and	otherwise	 processed	 foods	can	still	be	good	
sources	of	vitamins	 and	minerals.	 In	today’s	diet,	vitamin	and	mineral	supplements	 are	
also a common source of micronutrients.
	 Water	 makes	up	the	sixth	class	of	nutrients.	 About	60	percent	of	the	human	body	is	
water.	Although	 sometime	 overlooked	 as	a	nutrient,	 water	has	numerous	 vital	functions	
in	the	body.	It	acts	as	a	solvent	and	lubricant,	 as	a	vehicle	for	transporting	 nutrients	 and	
wastes,	and	as	a	medium	 for	temperature	 regulation	 and	chemical	 reactions.	 Water	is	
considered	 a	macronutrient	 and	is	required	 in	a	large	quantity	 in	the	daily	diet.	The	
average	man	should	consume	 about	3000	ml	or	13	cups	of	water	and/or	other	fluids	
containing	water	every	day.	Women	need	close	to	2200	 ml	or	about	9	cups	per	day.
	 Together,	 the	macronutrients	 and	micronutrients	 provide	 energy,	structure,	 and	
regulation.	 These	functions	 are	important	 for	growth,	maintenance,	 repair,	and	repro-
duction.	 Each	nutrient	 provides	 one	or	more	of	these	functions,	 but	all	nutrients	
together	are	needed	to	maintain	health	( Table	1.2).
Chemical composition of nutrients
The	simplest	 nutrients	 are	the	minerals.	 Each	is	a	chemical	 element;	 its	atoms	are	all	
alike.	As	a	result,	its	identity	never	changes.	 For	example,	 iron	may	change	its	form,	but	
it	remains	 iron	when	food	is	cooked,	 when	a	person	eats	the	food,	when	iron	becomes	
part	of	a	red	blood	cell,	when	the	cell	is	broken	down,	and	when	the	iron	is	lost	from	the	
body	by	excretion.	 The	next	simplest	 nutrient	 is	water,	a	compound	 made	up	of	two	ele-
ments:	hydrogen	 and	oxygen.	Minerals	 and	water	are	inorganic nutrients because they 
contain no carbon.
	 The	other	four	classes	of	nutrients	 –	carbohydrates,	 lipids,	proteins,	 and	vitamins	 –	
are	more	complex.	 In	addition	 to	hydrogen	 and	oxygen,	 they	all	contain	carbon,	an	
element	 found	in	all	living	species.	They	are	therefore	 called	 organic compounds .	Pro-
teins	and	vitamins	 also	contain	 nitrogen	 and	may	contain	 other	elements	 as	well	
(Table	1.3).
The energy- yielding nutrients
Carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins	 provide	the	fuel	or	energy	required	 to	maintain	 life,	
and	are	therefore	 considered	 as	energy-	yielding	 nutrients.	 If	less	energy	is	consumed	
than	is	needed,	 the	body	will	burn	its	own	fat	as	well	as	carbohydrate	 and	protein	to	

Introduction   11
meet	the	energy	needs.	If	more	energy	is	consumed	 than	is	needed,	 the	extra	is	stored	
as	body	fat.	The	energy	contained	 in	foods	or	needed	for	all	body	processes	 and	activ-
ities	is	measured	 in	kilocalories	 (abbreviated	 as	kcal)	or	kilojoules	 (abbreviated	 as	kj).	
The	term	“calorie”	 is	technically	 1/1000	of	a	kilocalorie,	 but	when	spelled	with	a	capital	
“C”	it	indicates	 kilocalories.	 For	example,	 the	term	“Calories”	 on	food	labels	actually	
refers	to	kilocalories	 or	kcal.	When	completely	 broken	down	in	the	body,	a	gram	of	car-
bohydrate	 or	protein	provides	 4	kcal.	One	gram	of	lipid	provides	 9	kcal,	and	lipids,	there-
fore,	have	a	greater	energy	density	than	either	carbohydrates	or	proteins	( Table	1.4).
	 One	other	substance	 which	yields	energy	is	alcohol.	 Alcohol	 is	not	considered	 a	
nutrient	 because	it	interferes	 with	the	growth,	maintenance,	 and	repair	of	the	body,	but	
it	does	yield	energy.	When	metabolized	 in	the	body,	alcohol	contributes	 about	7	kcal	per	
gram	(Table	1.4).Table 1.2  Nutrient functions in the body
Nutrients Major function Example
Carbohydrates Energy Muscle	glycogen	is	stored	carbohydrate	that	fuels	the	body	
cells.
Lipids Energy Fat	is	the	most	plentiful	source	of	stored	fuel	in	the	body.
Structure The	membranes	that	surround	each	cell	are	primarily	lipids.
Regulation Estrogen	is	lipid	hormone	that	helps	regulate	the	
reproductive	cycle	in	women.
Proteins Energy Proteins	may	be	used	for	energy	when	consumed	in	excess	or	
carbohydrate becomes depleted.
Structure Proteins	are	an	important	part	of	body	tissues,	including	
muscles,	tendons,	and	ligaments.
Regulation Insulin	is	a	protein	that	helps	regulate	blood	glucose	
concentrations.
Vitamins Regulation B	vitamins	help	regulate	energy	metabolism	using	
macronutrients.
Minerals Structure The	minerals	 calcium	and	phosphorus	 make	bones	and	teeth	
solid and hard.
Regulation Sodium	helps	regulate	blood	volume.
Water Structure Water	makes	up	nearly	60%	of	body	weight.
Regulation Water	evaporated	as	sweat	helps	reduce	body	temperature.
Table 1.3	Chemical	elements	in	the	six	classes	of	nutrients
Nutrients Carbon Hydrogen Oxygen Nitrogen
Carbohydrate ✓ ✓ ✓
Lipids ✓ ✓ ✓
Proteins1✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Vitamins2✓ ✓ ✓
Minerals3
Water ✓ ✓
Notes
1	Some	proteins	also	contain	the	mineral	sulfur.
2	Some	vitamins	also	contain	nitrogen	and	other	elements.
3	Each	mineral	is	a	chemical	element.

12  Introduction
	 Most	foods	contain	all	three	energy-	yielding	 nutrients,	 as	well	as	water,	vitamins,	 and	
minerals.	 For	example,	 meat	contains	 water,	fat,	vitamins,	 and	minerals	 as	well	as	
protein.	 Bread	contains	 carbohydrate,	 water,	a	trace	of	fat,	a	little	protein,	 and	some	vita-
mins	and	minerals.	 Only	a	few	foods	are	exceptions	 to	this	rule,	the	common	 ones	being	
table	sugar	(pure	carbohydrate)	and	cooking	oil	(pure	fat).
How much of each nutrient do we need?
In	order	to	support	life,	an	adequate 	amount	of	each	nutrient	must	be	consumed 	in	the	
diet.	The	exact	amount	that	is	optimal	is	different	 for	each	individual.	 It	depends	 on	genetic	
makeup,	lifestyle,	and	overall	diet.	A	person	with	a	genetic	predisposition 	to	a	disease	needs	
to consume different amounts of certain nutrients to maintain health than does a person 
with	no	genetic	risk	of	the	disease.	Individuals 	who	smoke	cigarettes 	need	more	vitamin	C	
than	non-	smokers.	Athletes	or	those	who	are	more	active	need	more	carbohydrate 	and	the	
total	daily	energy	than	do	their	less	active	counterparts.	 The	amount	 of	each	nutrient	
required	 is	also	dependent	 on	the	other	nutrients	 and	non-	nutrient	 substances	 present	in	
the	diet.	For	example,	 adequate	 consumption	 of	fat	is	essential	 for	the	absorption	 of	vitamin	
A.	The	amount	of	iron	absorbed	 is	affected	by	the	presence	 of	vitamin	C	and	calcium.	 Thus,	
it	is	difficult	to	make	generalized	 recommendations	 about	how	much	is	enough	or	not	
enough	without	considering	both	individual	needs	and	overall	diet.
 Consuming either too much or too little of one or more nutrients or energy can cause 
malnutrition .	Malnutrition	 is	often	interpreted	 as	under- nutrition	or	a	deficiency	 of	energy	
and	nutrients.	 Under-	nutrition	 may	occur	due	to	reduced	 intake	of	energy	and	nutrients, 	
increased	 requirements,	 or	an	inability	to	absorb	or	use	nutrients.	 It	can	cause	weight	loss,	
poor	growth,	an	inability	to	reproduce,	 and,	if	severe	enough,	 death.	Iron	deficiency	 is	a	
form	of	under-	nutrition	 commonly	 seen	in	young	children,	 adolescents,	 and	some	women	
owing	to	their	increased	 need	for	iron.	Vitamin	B12	deficiency	 is	a	risk	for	older	adults	
because	the	ability	to	absorb	B12	in	the	stomach	 decreases	 with	age.	When	under-	nutrition 	
is	caused	by	a	specific	nutrient	deficiency, 	the	symptoms 	often	reflect	the	body	functions	
that	rely	on	the	deficient	nutrient.	For	example,	vitamin	D	is	necessary	for	bone	growth	and 	
maintenance;	 a	deficiency	 of	vitamin	D	can	result	in	osteoporosis.	 Vitamin	A	is	necessary 	
for	vision;	a	deficiency	of	vitamin	A	can	result	in	blindness.
 Over- nutrition 	is	also	a	form	of	malnutrition.	 When	food	is	consumed	 in	excess	of	
energy	requirements,	 the	excess	is	stored	as	body	fat.	Some	fat	is	necessary	 for	insula-
tion,	protection,	 and	as	an	energy	store,	but	an	excess	of	body	fat	increases	 the	risk	for	
high	blood	pressure,	 heart	disease,	 diabetes,	 and	other	chronic	 diseases.	 These	con-
ditions	can	take	months	and	years	to	manifest	 themselves.	 When	excesses	 of	specific	
nutrients	 are	consumed,	 an	adverse	or	toxic	reaction	 may	occur.	Because	 foods	generally	
do	not	contain	high	enough	concentrations	 of	nutrients	 to	be	toxic,	most	nutrient	 toxic-
ities	often	result	from	the	overuse	of	specific	supplements.Table 1.4	Energy	content	of	macronutrients	and	alcohol
Kilocalories/gram Kilojoules/gram
Carbohydrate 4 16.7
Lipids 9 16.7
Proteins 4 37.6
Alcohol 7 29.3
Note
1	kilocalorie	 =	4.18	kilojoules.

Introduction 		13
What is reliable nutritional information?
The	science	of	nutrition	 is	young	but	fast	growing,	 especially	 as	our	society	has	become	
more	health-	conscious	 over	recent	years.	We	are	bombarded	 with	nutrition	 information,	
and	much	of	it	reaches	us	through	 television,	 the	internet,	 radio,	newspapers,	 and	maga-
zines.	Although	 dieticians,	 nutritionists,	 and	physicians	 are	viewed	as	the	most	valuable	
source	of	nutrition	 information,	 it	seems	that	we	get	most	of	our	food	and	nutrition	
information	 from	mass	media.	Much	of	the	information	 is	reliable,	 but	some	can	be	mis-
leading.	 One	should	always	be	aware	that	the	motivation	 for	news	stories	is	often	to	sell	
subscriptions,	 improve	 ratings,	or	make	news	headlines	 more	enticing,	 rather	than	to	
promote	 the	nutritional	 health	of	the	population.	 Some	nutrition	 and	health	informa-
tion	originates	 from	food	companies.	 It	is	usually	in	the	form	of	marketing	 designed	 to	
sell	existing	or	target	new	products.	 Sifting	through	 the	information	 and	distinguishing	
the	useful	from	the	useless	can	be	overwhelming.	 However,	 an	understanding	 of	the	
process	of	science	and	how	it	is	used	to	study	the	relationship	 between	 nutrition	 and	
health	or	performance	 will	allow	you	to	develop	 the	knowledge	 and	ability	needed	to	
judge	the	validity	of	nutritional	products.
Scientific methods
Advances	 in	nutrition	 are	made	using	the	scientific	 method.	 The	scientific	 method	offers	
a	systematic,	 unbiased	 approach	 to	evaluating	 the	relationships	 between	 food	and	health	
or	performance.	 As	shown	in	Figure	1.4,	the	first	step	of	the	scientific	 method	is	to	make	
an	observation	 and	ask	questions	 about	that	observation.	 For	example,	 “What	foods	or	
Hypothesis supported
Conclusions and theor yN ew questionsHypothesis disprovedObservation and question
Identify a problem and ask
specific questions
Hypothesis
Formulate a hypothesis
based on existing evidence
Results and interpretations
Analyze data and interpret
resultsExperiment
Design a research protocol to
test the hypothesis
Figure 1.4 	The	scientific	method	of	inquiry

14		 Introduction
nutrients	 might	protect	against	the	common	 cold?”	In	search	of	an	answer,	scientists	
then	make	a	scientific	 explanation	 or	hypothesis ,	such	as	“Foods	rich	in	vitamin	C	
reduce	the	number	 of	common	 colds.”	Once	a	hypothesis	 has	been	proposed,	 experi-
ments	can	be	designed	 to	test	it.	The	experiments	 must	provide	objective	 results	that	
may	be	measured	 and	repeated.	 If	the	results	fail	to	prove	the	hypothesis	 to	be	wrong,	a	
theory	or	a	scientific	 explanation	 can	be	established.	 Even	a	theory	that	has	been	
accepted	 by	the	scientific	 community	 for	years	can	be	proved	wrong.	This	changeover	
allows	the	body	of	knowledge	 to	grow,	but	it	can	be	confusing	 as	old	or	more	conven-
tional	theories	give	way	to	new	ones.
	 A	well-	conducted	 experiment	 must	collect	quantifiable	 data	using	proper	experi-
mental	controls	 and	the	right	experimental	 population.	 For	example,	 body	weight	and	
blood	pressure	 are	parameters	 that	can	be	measured	 reliably.	However,	 feelings	and	per-
ceptions	 are	more	difficult	to	assess.	They	can	be	quantified	 with	standardized	 question -
naires,	but	individual	 testimonies	 or	opinions,	 referred	 to	as	anecdotal,	 cannot	be	
measured	objectively,	and	thus	are	considered	non-	 quantifiable.
	 Experimental	 controls	 ensure	that	each	factor	or	variable	 studied	can	be	compared	
with	a	known	situation.	 They	are	often	accomplished	 by	using	a	control group 	that	serves	
as	a	standard	 of	comparison	 for	the	treatment	 being	tested.	A	control	group	is	treated	
the	same	way	as	the	experimental	 groups,	except	that	no	experimental	 treatment	 is	
given.	For	example,	 to	investigate	 the	effect	of	creatine	 supplementation	 on	strength	
and	power	performance,	 the	experiment	 group	consists	of	athletes	consuming	 the	creat-
ine	monohydrate,	 whereas	 the	control	group	consists	of	athletes	of	similar	age,	gender,	
and	training	 backgrounds	 eating	similar	diets	and	following	 similar	workout	 regimens,	
but not consuming the creatine product.
	 A	 placebo	can	be	used	to	further	minimize	 differences	 between	 experimental	 and	
control	groups.	The	placebo	 should	be	identical	 in	appearance	 and	taste	to	the	actual	
treatment	 but	have	no	therapeutic	 value.	By	using	a	placebo,	 participants	 in	the	experi-
ment	would	not	know	if	they	are	receiving	 the	actual	treatment.	 When	subjects	do	not	
know	which	treatment	 they	are	receiving,	 the	study	is	called	a	single- blind study .	Using	a	
single-	blind	study	helps	prevent	the	expectations	 of	subjects	from	biasing	the	results.	For	
example,	 it	the	athletes	think	they	are	under	the	actual	treatment,	 they	develop	a	higher	
expectation	 of	themselves	 and	as	a	result	work	harder	during	the	treatment	 and/or	
testing	period.	Errors	may	also	occur	if	investigators	 allow	their	own	desire	for	a	specific	
result	to	affect	the	interpretation	 of	the	data.	This	type	of	error	can	be	avoided	by	using	
a double- blind study 	in	which	neither	the	subjects	nor	the	investigators	 know	who	is	in	
which	group	until	the	results	have	been	analyzed.
	 Another	 important	 issue	with	the	scientific	 method	is	to	determine	 a	sample	size.	To	
be	successful,	 an	experiment	 must	show	that	the	treatment	 being	tested	causes	a	result	
to	occur	more	frequently	 than	it	would	occur	by	chance.	 To	ensure	that	chance	vari-
ation	between	 the	two	groups	does	not	influence	 the	results,	the	sample	size	must	be	
large.	If	there	is	a	change	occurring	 by	chance	in	one	member	 of	a	group	of	five,	such	
change	can	easily	alter	the	whole	group’s	average;	 but	if	such	change	occurs	in	one	
member	 of	a	group	of	500,	it	will	not	overly	affect	the	group	average.	 Fewer	subjects	are	
needed	 to	demonstrate	 an	effect	that	rarely	occurs	by	chance,	 and	vice	versa.	For	
example,	 if	only	one	person	in	a	million	can	improve	 muscle	power	without	creatine	
supplementation,	 then	the	experiment	 to	see	if	creatine	 supplementation	 increases	
muscle	power	would	require	only	a	few	subjects	to	demonstrate	 the	effect.	If	one	in	four	
athletes	 can	improve	 muscle	power	without	 creatine	 supplementation,	 then	more	
subjects	 are	needed	for	the	study.	The	sample	size	needed	to	show	the	effect	of	an	
experimental	 treatment	 may	be	determined	 using	statistical	 methods	 before	a	study	is	
conducted.

Introduction   15
Types of research
Several	types	of	research	 techniques	 have	been	used	to	determine	 nutrient	 require-
ments,	to	learn	more	about	nutrient	 metabolism,	 and	to	understand	 the	role	of	nutri-
tion	in	health,	fitness,	and	performance.	 These	research	 techniques	 may	be	broadly	
divided	into	two	categories:	 epidemiological research  and experimental research .
	 Epidemiological	 research	 involves	 studying	 large	populations	 in	order	to	suggest	a	
relationship	 between	 the	two	or	more	variables.	 For	example,	 epidemiological	 research	
has	helped	scientists	 observe	that	those	who	consume	 a	diet	high	in	fat	were	more	likely	
to	develop	 heart	disease.	 There	are	various	forms	of	epidemiological	 research.	 One	
general	form	uses	retrospective	 techniques.	 In	this	case,	individuals	 who	have	a	certain	
disease	are	identified	 and	compared	 with	a	group	of	peers	who	don’t	have	the	disease.	
Researchers	 then	trace	the	lifestyle	history	and	eating	habits	of	both	groups	to	deter-
mine	whether	 dietary	practices	 or	other	factors	may	have	increased	 the	risk	for	develop-
ing	the	disease.	Another	 general	form	of	epidemiological	 research	 uses	a	prospective	
technique.	 In	this	case,	individuals	 who	are	free	of	a	specific	disease	are	identified	 and	
then	followed	 for	years,	during	which	time	their	lifestyle	behaviors,	 including	 eating	
habits,	are	scrutinized.	 As	some	individuals	 develop	 the	disease	and	others	don’t,	the	
researchers	 are	then	able	to	discern	whether	 dietary	behaviors	 may	increase	 the	risk	of	
the disease.
	 Epidemiological	 research	 helps	scientists	 identify	 important	 relationships	 between	
variables,	 but	it	does	not	prove	a	cause-	and-effect	 relationship.	 For	example,	 in	epidemi-
ological	 studies	that	revealed	 an	association	 between	 high	fat	intake	and	heart	disease,	
experimental	 research	 typically	 involved	 examining	 the	incidence	 of	heart	disease	and	
dietary	factors	cross-	sectionally	 using	multiple	 groups	of	subjects	or	longitudinally	 using	
the	same	group	of	subjects,	 and	the	conclusion	 was	drawn	based	on	the	observation	 that	
those	with	high	fat	intake	also	have	high	incidences	 of	heart	disease.	However,	 questions	
could	be	raised	as	to	whether	 high	fat	intake	directly	causes	heart	disease.	To	answer	
these	questions,	 one	may	hypothesize	 that	a	high	fat	intake	predisposes	 one	to	cardiovas -
cular	disease,	but	this	hypothesis	 must	then	be	tested	by	studies	containing	 tightly	con-
trolled	experimental	approaches.
	 Experimental	 research	 constitutes	 another	 common	 form	of	research	 in	nutritional	
science.	The	observation	 and	hypotheses	 that	come	from	epidemiological	 research	 may	
be	tested	in	experimental	 research,	 which	will	then	allow	scientists	 to	establish	 a	cause-	
and-effect	 relationship.	 This	type	of	research	 actively	intervenes	 in	the	lives	of	indi-
viduals,	and	usually	involves	studying	 a	smaller	group	of	subjects	that	receive	a	treatment	
or	placebo	 under	either	tightly	controlled	 or	free-	living	conditions.	 In	such	studies,	
often	called	intervention	 studies,	an	independent	 variable	(cause)	is	manipulated	 so	that	
changes	 in	dependent	 variables	 (effect)	may	be	studied.	For	example,	 if	it	is	determined	
by	epidemiological	 research	 that	individuals	 who	eat	a	low-	fat	diet	have	a	lower	inci-
dence	of	heart	disease,	 an	intervention	 trial	may	be	designed	 with	an	experimental	
group	that	consumes	 a	diet	lower	in	fat	than	is	typical	in	the	population	 and	a	control	
group	that	consumes	 the	typical	higher	fat	diet,	while	both	groups	are	kept	the	same	in	
terms	of	other	aspects	of	lifestyle,	 i.e.,	total	caloric	intake	and	participation	 in	physical	
activities.	 The	two	groups	can	be	monitored	 and	compared	 to	see	if	the	dietary	interven-
tion affects the incidence of heart disease.
	 The	experimental	 approach	 appears	to	be	a	common	 choice	in	studies	that	examine	
the	effect	of	nutrition	 on	sports	performance,	 though	they	are	of	a	shorter	time	frame	
compared	 to	those	studies	that	investigate	 the	relationship	 between	 nutrition	 and	health.	
In	addition,	 most	sports	nutrition	 studies	are	conducted	 in	a	laboratory	 with	tight	
control	of	extraneous	 variables.	 In	order	to	make	research	 findings	 more	relevant	 to	

16		 Introduction
actual	sports,	many	of	these	studies	also	attempt	to	use	laboratory	 protocols	 designed	 to	
mimic	the	physiological	 demands	 of	the	sport.	Although	 a	research	 study	that	possesses	
both	the	rigorous	 control	of	its	experimental	 design	and	ability	of	its	findings	 to	be	
readily	applied	is	always	preferable,	 achieving	 both	simultaneously	 has	often	been	found	
to	be	difficult.
Judging nutritional information
Knowledge	 relative	to	all	facets	of	life,	the	science	of	nutrition	 included,	 has	increased	 phe-
nomenally	 over	recent	years.	As	knowledge	 advances,	 new	nutritional	 principles	 are	
developed.	 Sometimes,	 established	 beliefs	and	concepts	 must	give	way	to	new	ideas,	which	
then	result	in	a	change	in	recommendations. 	It	has	long	been	suggested 	that	margarine 	is	
better	for	you	than	butter.	However,	 current	research	 indicates	 that	it	is	just	as	bad	for	you.	
Indeed,	nutrition	 is	a	fast-	growing	 discipline	 in	part	because	consumers	 are	now	taking	a	
greater	responsibility	 for	self-	care	and	are	eager	to	receive	food	and	nutrition	 information. 	
Such	an	increase	in	societal	interest	creates	opportunities	 for	nutritional	 misinformation	 to	
flourish.	According 	to	the	American 	Dietetic	Association, 	the	media	are	consumers’	
leading	source	of	nutrition	 information,	 but	news	reports	of	nutrition	 research	 often	
provide	inadequate 	depth	for	consumers 	to	make	wise	decisions. 	Consumers 	must	also	be	
aware	of	the	fact	that	certain	individuals	 may	capitalize	 on	research	 findings	 for	personal	
financial	gain.	For	example, 	isolated	nutritional 	facts	may	be	distorted 	or	results	of	a	single	
study	may	be	used	to	market	a	specific	nutritional	product.
	 Just	as	scientists	 use	the	scientific	 method	to	extend	their	understanding	 of	the	world,	
each	of	us	can	use	an	understanding	 of	how	science	is	conducted	 to	evaluate	 nutritional	
claims.	Claims	associated	 with	nutrition	 products	 are	always	appealing.	 It	is	up	to	us	as	
consumers	 to	decide	whether	 and	how	we	should	accept	them.	In	judging	the	validity	of	
a	nutritional	 product,	 one	should	always	question	 whether	 product	 claims	make	sense,	
and,	if	they	do,	where	they	come	from.	If	a	product	 is	claimed	to	change	body	composi-
tion	in	only	one	or	two	weeks	without	altering	diet	and	exercise	 habits,	common	 sense	
should	tell	you	that	it	is	too	good	to	be	true.	If	the	claim	seems	to	be	reasonable,	 then	
the	question	 becomes	 where	it	came	from.	Was	it	a	personal	 testimony,	 a	government	
recommendation,	 or	advice	from	a	health	professional?	 Was	it	the	result	of	a	research	
study?	Was	such	a	research	study	found	in	a	peer-	 reviewed	journal?
	 Claims	 that	come	from	individual	 testimonies	 have	not	been	tested	by	experimenta -
tion,	and	therefore	 it	cannot	be	assumed	 that	similar	results	will	occur	in	other	people.	
On	the	other	hand,	government	 recommendations	 regarding	 healthy	dietary	practices	
are	developed	 by	a	panel	of	scientists	 who	use	the	results	of	well-	controlled	 research	
studies	to	develop	 recommendations	 for	the	population	 as	a	whole.	The	government	
provides	 information	 about	food	safety	and	recommendations	 on	food	choices	and	the	
quantities	 of	specific	nutrients	 needed	to	avoid	nutrient	 deficiencies	 and	excesses	 and	to	
prevent	 chronic	 diseases.	 These	recommendations	 are	used	to	develop	 food-	labeling	
regulations and are the basis for public health policies and programs.
	 Results	 from	research	 studies	published	 in	peer-	reviewed	 journals	 are	generally	 con-
sidered	accurate	 because	these	studies	have	been	scrutinized	 by	the	scientific	 community 	
to	determine	 their	validity	and	reliability.	 On	the	other	hand,	results	presented	 at	confer-
ences	or	published 	in	popular	magazines, 	although 	they	may	be	legitimate, 	should	be	
viewed	with	caution,	as	they	are	usually	not	subject	to	the	scrutiny	of	others	who	are	experts	
in	the	same	field.	Even	well-	designed,	 carefully	 executed,	 peer-	reviewed	 experiments	 can	
be	a	source	of	misinformation	 if	the	experimental	 results	are	interpreted	 incorrectly	 or	if	
the	implications 	of	the	results	are	exaggerated. 	For	example, 	a	mineral	called	Boron	has	
been	considered	 as	an	ergogenic	 aid	because	 a	study	shows	that	consuming	 boron	

Introduction 		17
enhances	 blood	testosterone	 levels	in	those	with	boron	deficiency.	 Nevertheless,	 supple-
menting	 boron	to	increase	 testosterone	 levels	in	those	with	boron	deficiency	 does	not	
necessarily	 mean	that	to	increase	boron	consumption	 in	those	with	a	normal	boron	level	to	
begin	with	will	have	the	same	effect.	It	is	usually	true	that	once	an	adequate	 intake	of	a	
nutrient	 is	achieved,	 consuming	 it	in	excess	is	ineffective.	 A	study	which	shows	that	rats	fed	
a	diet	high	in	vitamin	E	live	longer	than	those	consuming 	less	vitamin	E	could	lead	people	
to	conclude 	that	vitamin	E	supplementation 	can	prolong	one’s	life.	However, 	can	results	
from	this	animal	study	be	extrapolated	 to	humans?	 Just	because	rats	consuming	 diets	high	
in	vitamin	E	live	longer	does	not	mean	that	the	same	is	true	for	humans.
	 The	best	means	to	evaluate	 claims	of	enhanced	 health	and	sports	performance	 made	
by	nutritional	 products	 or	practices	 is	to	possess	a	good	background	 in	nutrition	 and	a	
familiarity	 with	the	experimental	 process	of	high-	quality	research.	 However,	 this	may	not	
be	possible	 for	all	individuals	 who	are	seeking	nutritional	 products.	 For	those	who	have	
a	minimal	 background	 in	nutrition,	 it	is	recommended	 that	the	following	 be	used	as	
basic	guidelines	 in	evaluating	 the	claims	made	for	a	nutritional	 product	 or	practice.	 If	
the	answer	to	any	of	following	 questions	 is	yes,	then	one	should	be	skeptical	 of	such	a	
product	and	investigate	its	real	efficacy	before	investing	any	money	in	it.
•	 Is	its	claim	too	good	to	be	true?
•	 Does	the	product	promise	quick	improvement	in	health	and	physical	performance?
•	 Is	it	advertised	 mainly	through	 the	use	of	anecdotes,	 case	histories,	 or	individual	
testimonials?
•	 Are	currently	popular	personalities	or	star	athletes	featured	in	its	advertisements?
•	 Does	the	person	or	organization	who	recommends	it	also	sell	the	product?
•	 Is	it	expensive,	 especially	 when	compared	 to	the	cost	of	equivalent	 nutrients	 that	
may	be	obtained	from	ordinary	foods?
•	 Does	 it	use	the	results	of	a	single	study	or	poorly	controlled	 research	 to	support	its	
claims?
Summary
•	 Nutrition	 is	a	science	that	links	foods	to	health	and	diseases.	 It	studies	the	structure	
and	function	 of	various	food	groups	and	the	nutrients	 they	contain.	 It	also	includes	
the	biological	 processes	 by	which	our	body	consumes	 food	and	uses	the	nutrients	
contained therein.
•	 Your	 food	choice	today	may	affect	your	health	tomorrow.	 Understanding	 nutrition	
will	allow	you	to	make	wise	choices	about	foods	you	consume,	 thus	improving	 health	
and	fitness.
•	 Proper	 nutrition	 is	an	important	 component	 in	the	total	training	 program	 of	the	
athlete.	Nutrient	 deficiencies	 can	seriously	 impair	performance,	 whereas	 nutrient	
supplementation	 may	delay	fatigue	and	improve	 performance.	 Nutritional	 status	
can	be	a	major	factor	differentiating	 athletes	 of	comparable	 genetic	endowment	
and state of training.
•	 Sports	 nutrition	 represents	 one	of	the	fastest-	growing	areas	of	study	over	recent	years.	
It	is	the	study	and	practice	of	nutrition	and	diet	as	it	relates	to	athletic	performance.
•	 The	 human	body	consists	of	carbon,	hydrogen,	 oxygen,	nitrogen,	 and	a	few	other	
assorted	 elements.	 When	joined	together,	 these	elements	 are	transformed	 into	
large,	functional,	 and	life-	sustaining	 compounds,	 or	molecules,	 such	as	proteins,	
carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	nucleic	acids.	Understanding	 the	chemical	 compounds	
found in food and their many roles in the biological processes of life is fundamental 
to the study of nutrition.

18  Introduction
•	 All	living	organisms	 consist	of	cells,	the	“building	 blocks”	of	the	body.	All	human	
cells	are	surrounded	 by	a	cell	membrane.	 Inside	the	cell	membrane	 are	the	cytosol	
or	cell	fluid	and	organelles	 that	perform	 the	functions	 necessary	 for	cell	survival.	
Common	 organelles	 found	in	most	cells	are	cell	nuclei,	mitochondria,	 endoplasmic	
reticulum,	ribosomes,	Golgi	apparatus,	and	lysosomes.
•	 Nutrients	 are	substances	 contained	 in	food	that	are	necessary	 to	support	 growth,	
maintenance,	 and	repair	of	the	body	tissues.	The	six	classes	of	nutrients	 include	car-
bohydrate,	lipids,	proteins,	vitamins,	minerals,	and	water.
•	 Carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins	 provide	the	fuel	or	energy	required	 to	maintain	
life,	and	are	therefore	 considered	 to	be	energy-	yielding	 nutrients.	 The	energy	con-
tained	in	foods	or	needed	for	all	body	processes	 and	activities	 is	measured	 in	kilo-
calories	(abbreviated	as	kcal)	or	kilojoules	(abbreviated	as	kj).
•	 Epidemiological	 research	 and	experimental	 research	 are	the	two	types	of	research	
frequently	 used	in	the	study	of	nutrition.	 The	former	involves	studying	 large	popula-
tions	in	order	to	suggest	a	relationship	 between	 the	two	or	more	variables,	 whereas	
the	latter	involves	 studying	 a	smaller	group	of	subjects	 that	receive	a	treatment	 or	
placebo	under	either	tightly	controlled	or	free-	 living	conditions.
•	 In	judging	the	validity	of	a	nutritional	 product,	 one	should	always	question	 whether	
product	claims	make	sense	and,	if	they	do,	where	they	come	from.	Claims	that	come	
from	individual	 testimonies	 have	not	been	tested	by	experimentation.	 However,	
claims	supported	 by	research	 studies	published	 in	peer-	reviewed	 journals	 are	gener-
ally considered accurate.
Case study: judge the scientific merit of a nutritional product
The	picture	on	the	nutritional	 product	 was	eye-	catching.	 A	good-	looking	couple	were	
running	 along	a	beach.	He	was	shirtless	 and	had	impressive	 upper-	body	muscle	mass.	
She	was	in	a	tight-	fitting	sundress	 and	had	a	perfect	figure	and	long,	blonde	hair.	The	
product	 was	advertised	 as	a	weight	loss	supplement.	 This	advertisement	 also	included	 a	
statement	 saying,	“Research	 studies	show	that	this	supplement	 helps	people	lose	weight	
and	feel	less	fatigued.”	 After	seeing	this	advertisement,	 Jill	wrote	to	the	company	 and	
asked	about	the	research	 that	had	been	conducted	 to	develop	 this	product.	 She	
received	the	company’s	newsletter,	which	discussed	two	research	studies.
	 In	the	first	study,	12	obese	subjects	 were	divided	into	two	groups,	with	one	group	
being	given	the	supplement	 and	the	other	receiving	 no	supplement.	 The	12	subjects	
were	all	consuming	 a	liquid	diet	of	800	kcal	daily.	These	subjects	 were	living	in	an	
experimental	 research	 ward	where	they	had	no	access	to	food	other	than	the	liquid	
diet.	It	was	found	that	over	a	four-	week	study	period,	subjects	receiving	 the	supplement	
lost	more	weight	than	those	who	did	not	receive	it.
	 In	the	second	study,	eight	healthy	male	college	students	 were	studied	in	two	groups.	
They	were	asked	to	follow	their	regular	physical	 activities,	 but	one	group	took	the	sup-
plement	 while	the	other	received	 a	placebo.	 The	study	was	double-	blind.	After	three	
weeks,	subjects	 were	asked	how	energetic	 they	felt	during	a	workout	 and	throughout	
the	day.	It	was	found	that	the	subjects	 who	received	 the	supplement	 reported	 high	
energy	levels	and	less	fatigue	than	those	who	did	not.
Questions
•	 What	were	the	strengths	of	these	experiments?
•	 What	was	wrong	with	each	of	these	experiments?
•	 Should	consumers	be	encouraged	to	use	this	supplement	as	a	weight	loss	aid?	Why?

Introduction 		19
Review questions
	1	 What	is	nutrition?	What	is	sports	nutrition?
	2	 What	 is	a	nutrient?	 Name	the	six	classes	of	nutrients	 found	in	foods.	What	is	an	
essential	nutrient?
	3	 Which	 nutrients	 yield	energy	and	how	much	energy	do	they	yield	per	gram?	How	is	
energy	measured?
	4	 Describe	the	chemical	structure	of	a	cell	membrane.
	5	 What	are	the	functions	 of	(1)	ribosome,	 (2)	endoplasmic	 reticulum,	 and	(3)	Golgi	
apparatus.
	6	 Why	are	mitochondria	sometimes	called	the	“powerhouses”	of	the	cells?
	7	 Describe	 the	types	of	research	 methods	 often	used	in	acquiring	 nutrition 	
information.
	8	 List	steps	involved	in	scientific	method.
	9	 What	is	a	control	group?	What	is	a	placebo?	What	is	a	double-	 blind	study?
10	 What	factors	should	be	considered	in	judging	nutrition	claims?
Suggested reading
	1	 American	 Heart	Association	 Nutrition	 Committee,	 Lichtenstein	 AH,	Appel	LJ,	Brands	
M,	Carnethon	 M,	Daniels	S,	Franch	HA,	Franklin	 B,	Kris-	Etherton	 P,	Harris	WS,	
Howard	 B,	Karanja	N,	Lefevre	M,	Rudel	L,	Sacks	F,	Van	Horn	L,	Winston	 M,	Wylie-	
Rosett	J	(2006)	Diet	and	lifestyle	recommendations	 revision	2006:	a	scientific	 statement 	
from	the	American	Heart	Association	Nutrition	Committee.	 Circulation ,	114:	82–96.
 Improving diet and lifestyle is a critical component of the American Heart Association’s strategy 
for cardiovascular disease risk reduction in the general population. This document presents 
recommendations designed to meet this objective.
	2	 Cordain	 L,	Eaton	SB,	Sebastian	 A,	Mann	N,	Lindeberg	 S,	Watkins	 BA,	O’Keefe	 JH,	
Brand-	Miller	J	(2005)	Origins	and	evolution	 of	the	Western	 diet:	health	implications	
for the 21st century. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition ,	81:	341–354.
 This article discusses an evolutionary discordance between our ancient, genetically determined 
biology and the nutritional, cultural, and activity patterns of contemporary Western popula -
tions, which may explain some of the lifestyle- related diseases we are experiencing today.
	3	 Hoffman	 DJ,	Policastro	 P,	Quick	V,	Lee	SK	(2006)	Changes	 in	body	weight	and	fat	
mass	of	men	and	women	in	the	first	year	of	college:	a	study	of	the	“freshman	 15.”	
Journal of American College Health ,	55:	41–45.
 This original investigation was designed to measure changes in body weight and percentage of 
body fat among first- year college students, and to address a common but often undocumented 
myth among college students that there is a high risk of gaining 15 pounds of weight during 
freshman year.
Glossary
Acids	molecules	that	release	hydrogen	ions	(H+)	when	dissolved	in	water.
Atoms	sub-	microscopic	 particles	 and	the	fundamental	 units	that	make	up	the	world	
around us.
Bases	molecules	that	release	hydroxide	ions	(OH–)	when	dissolved	in	water.
Buffer	a	solution	that	reacts	with	both	acids	and	bases	to	maintain	a	constant	pH.
Control group 	a	group	of	subjects	who	serve	as	a	standard	 of	comparison	 for	the	treat-
ment	being	tested	in	a	research	experiment.
Cytosol	gel-	like	intracellular	matrix	within	a	cell.
Double- blind study 	a	research	 design	or	setup	in	which	neither	the	subjects	 nor	the	
investigators	know	who	is	in	which	group	until	the	results	have	been	analyzed.

20		 Introduction
Element  a pure substance made up of only one type of atom.
Endoplasmic reticulum 	a	network	of	membranous	tubules	within	the	cytoplasm.
Energy- yielding nutrients 	referred	 to	as	carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins	 that	provide	
energy to the body.
Epidemiological research 	research	 that	involves	studying	 large	populations	 in	order	to	
suggest	a	relationship	between	two	or	more	variables.
Essential 	also	referred	 to	as	indispensable	 which	describes	 those	nutrients	 necessary	 to	
support	life	but	which	must	be	supplied	 in	the	diet	because	 the	body	cannot	make	
them	or	make	them	in	a	large	enough	quantity	to	meet	needs.
Experimental research 	research	 that	actively	intervenes	 in	the	lives	of	individuals	 and	
usually	involves	 studying	 a	smaller	group	of	subjects	 that	receive	a	treatment	 or	
placebo	under	either	tightly	controlled	or	free-	 living	conditions.
Golgi apparatus 	an	organelle	 responsible	 for	transporting,	 modifying,	 and	packaging	
proteins	and	lipids	into	vesicles	for	delivery	to	targeted	destinations.
Hypothesis 	a	proposed	scientific	explanation	for	a	phenomenon.
Inorganic nutrients 	nutrients	that	contain	no	carbon,	such	as	minerals	and	water.
Ion a	charged	atom	or	molecule	due	to	an	unequal	number	of	electrons	and	protons.
Macronutrients 	nutrients	 required	 by	the	body	in	relatively	 large	amounts	 often	meas-
ured	in	grams	(g),	such	as	carbohydrate,	lipids,	and	protein.
Malnutrition 	often	interpreted	 as	under-	nutrition,	 but	also	includes	 a	condition	 of	
over-	nutrition.
Micronutrients 	nutrients	 required	 by	the	body	in	relatively	 small	amounts	 often	meas-
ured	in	milligrams	(mg)	or	micrograms	(µg),	such	as	vitamins	and	minerals.
Mitochondria 	an	organelle,	 also	referred	 to	as	a	powerhouse,	 responsible	 for	convert-
ing food energy into biologically usable energy.
Molecule 	two	or	more	atoms	joined	together	by	chemical	bonds.
Morbidity 	a	diseased	state,	disability,	or	poor	health.
Nonessential 	also	referred	 to	as	dispensable	 which	describes	 those	nutrients	 required	
by	the	body	but	which	can	be	produced	in	sufficient	amounts	to	meet	needs.
Nucleus	an	organelle	that	houses	the	genetic	material	DNA.
Nutrients 	substances	 contained	 in	food	necessary	 to	support	growth,	maintenance,	 and	
repair of the body tissues.
Nutrition 	a	science	that	links	foods	to	health	and	diseases.
Obesity	a	condition	 attributable	 to	a	positive	energy	balance	(i.e.,	energy	brought	 in	
via	foods	>	energy	expended	via	physical	activities).
Organelles 	microstructures	within	a	cell.
Organic compounds  nutrients that contain carbon in addition to hydrogen and 
oxygen,	such	as	carbohydrates,	lipids,	proteins,	and	vitamins.
Over- nutrition 	a	form	of	malnutrition	 that	occurs	when	food	is	consumed	 in	excess	of	
energy	requirements.
Placebo	a	sham	or	simulated	 treatment	 that	is	identical	 (i.e.,	in	appearance	 and	taste)	
to	the	actual	treatment	but	that	has	no	therapeutic	value.
Ribosome 	a	factory	site	for	protein	synthesis	within	the	cytoplasm.
Risk factor 	a	health	behavior	 or	pre-	existing	condition	 that	has	been	associated	 with	a	
particular	 disease,	such	as	cigarette	 smoking,	 physical	inactivity,	 stress,	insulin	resist-
ance,	hyperlipidemia,	etc.
Single- blind study 	a	research	 design	or	setup	in	which	subjects	 do	not	know	which	
treatment	they	are	receiving.
Sports nutrition  the study and practice of nutrition and diet as it relates to athletic 
performance.
Under- nutrition 	a	form	of	malnutrition	 that	occurs	due	to	reduced	 intake	of	energy	
and	nutrients,	increased	requirements,	or	an	inability	to	absorb	or	use	nutrients.

2 Macronutrients
Carbohydrates
Contents
Key terms 22
Introduction 22
Chemical basis of carbohydrates 23
Classification of carbohydrates 23
•	 Monosaccharides	 23
•	 Disaccharides	 24
•	 Complex	carbohydrates	 25
Food sources of carbohydrates 27
Major	roles	of	carbohydrates	in	the	body	 30
•	 Storing	glucose	as	glycogen	 30
•	 Using	carbohydrates	as	energy	 30
•	 Sparing	protein	from	use	as	an	energy	source	 31
•	 Carbohydrates	are	needed	to	break	down	fat	 31
Glycemic	response	 32
Maintaining	glucose	homeostasis	 33
Health	correlates	of	carbohydrates	 35
Carbohydrates	and	sports	performance	 36
Alcohol 37
•	 Alcohol	absorption,	transport,	and	excretion	 38
•	 Alcohol	metabolism	 38
•	 Benefits	of	moderate	alcohol	use	 39
•	 Alcohol	and	athletic	performance	 40
•	 Health	problems	of	alcohol	abuse	 40
Summary	 42
Case	study	 42
Review	questions	 43
Suggested	reading	 44
Glossary	 44

22  Macronutrients: carbohydrates
Key terms
•	 Alcohol	dehydrogenase	pathway	 •	 Amylase
•	 Amylopectin	 •	 Amylose
•	 Blood	alcohol	concentration	 •	 Cellulose
•	 Cirrhosis	 •	 Disaccharides
•	 Ethanol	 •	 Fermentation
•	 Fiber	 •	 Fructose
•	 Galactose	 •	 Glucagon
•	 Gluconeogenesis	 •	 Glucose
•	 Glycemic	index 	 •	 Glycogen
•	 Insoluble	fiber	 •	 Insulin
•	 Lactase	 •	 Lactose
•	 Maltose	 •	 Microsomal 	ethanol-	oxidizing 	system
•	 Moderate	alcohol	use	 •	 Monosaccharides
•	 Oligosaccharides	 •	 Soluble	fiber
•	 Starch	 •	 Sucrose
•	 Type	1	diabetes	 •	 Type	2	diabetes
Introduction
A	student,	 quietly	reading	a	textbook,	 is	seldom	aware	that	within	his	brain	cells	billions	
of glucose	molecules	 are	splitting	 to	provide	 the	energy	that	permits	 him	to	learn.	
Similarly,	 a	marathon	 runner,	bursting	 across	the	finish	line,	seldom	gives	thanks	to	the	
glycogen	 which	his	muscles	have	devoured	 to	help	him	finish	the	race.	Your	brain	needs	
carbohydrates	 to	power	its	activities.	 Your	muscles	need	carbohydrates	 to	fuel	their	work	
too.	Together,	 glucose	and	its	stored	form	 glycogen 	often	provide	more	than	a	half	of	all	
the	energy	used	by	the	brain,	muscles,	 and	other	body	tissues.	The	rest	of	the	body’s	
energy	comes	mainly	from	fat.
	 People	 don’t	eat	glucose	and	glycogen	 directly;	 they	eat	food	rich	in	carbohydrates.	
Then	their	bodies	convert	the	carbohydrates	 mostly	into	glucose	for	immediate	 energy	
and	into	glycogen	 for	reserve	energy.	Except	for	lactose	from	milk	and	a	small	amount	
of	glycogen	 from	animals,	 plants	provide	the	major	source	of	carbohydrate	 in	the	human	
diet.	All	plant	foods	(i.e.,	wholegrains,	 vegetables,	 legumes,	 and	fruits)	provide	ample	
carbohydrates.	 Although	 everyone	 eats	carbohydrates,	 the	amount	 and	type	consumed	
often	depend	on	the	wealth	and	prosperity	 of	the	society.	In	more	affluent	 countries,	
animal	foods	become	 more	affordable,	 so	the	intake	of	fat	and	protein	increases.	 For	
example,	 the	typical	intake	of	carbohydrates	 accounts	 for	nearly	two-	thirds	of	the	energy	
in	the	diet	in	developing	 countries,	 while	it	accounts	 for	only	about	half	of	the	energy	
intake	in	more	economically	developed	countries.
	 Not	all	carbohydrates	 are	created	equal.	Some	are	referred	 to	as	simple	and	well-	
refined	carbohydrates	 (i.e.,	candies,	 cookies,	 and	cakes),	while	others	are	considered 	
complex	 and	less	processed	 (i.e.,	wholegrains,	 vegetables,	 and	legumes).	 Many	people	
mistakenly	 think	of	carbohydrates	 as	“fattening”	 and	believe	that	diets	high	in	carbo-
hydrates 	contribute 	to	the	epidemic 	of	obesity.	They	avoid	them	when	trying	to	lose	
weight.	Such	a	strategy	 can	be	counterproductive	 if	the	carbohydrates	 being	con-
sumed	are	most	complex.	 In	fact,	most	dieticians	 and	nutritional	 scientists	 consider 	
consuming	 foods	rich	in	complex	 carbohydrates	 and	fibers	to	be	one	of	the	most	
important	 components	 of	a	healthy	 diet,	not	only	for	its	potential	 in	preventing 	
certain	chronic	diseases	but	also	as	an	integral	part	of	a	proper	diet	to	lose	excess	
body	fat	in	the	long	run.

Macronutrients: carbohydrates   23
Chemical basis of carbohydrates
Chemically, 	carbohydrates 	contain	carbon	(carbo),	as	well	as	hydrogen 	and	oxygen	in	the	
same	proportion	 as	in	water	(hydrate).	 Combining	 atoms	of	carbon,	hydrogen,	 and	oxygen	
forms	a	simple	carbohydrate	 or	sugar	molecule	 with	the	general	formula	C6H12O6,	although 	
the	number	of	carbon	can	vary	from	three	to	seven.	Six-	carbon	sugars	are	also	referred	 to	
as	hexoses.	 Accordingly,	 three-	carbon	sugars	are	trioses,	four-	carbon	sugars	are	tetroses,	
five-	carbon	sugars	are	pentoses,	 and	seven-	carbon	sugars	are	heptoses.	 Of	these	varieties,	
the	hexose	sugars	interest	nutritionists	 the	most.	In	these	molecules,	 atoms	of	C,	O,	N,	and	
H	are	linked	by	chemical	 bonds	between	 these	atoms.	Atoms	form	molecules	 in	ways	that	
satisfy	the	bonding	 requirement	 of	each	atom.	For	example,	 as	shown	in	Figure 	2.1, 	each	
carbon	atom	has	four	binding	sites	that	link	to	other	atoms,	including	 carbons.	 Carbon	
bonds	not	linked	to	other	carbon	atoms	accept	hydrogen	 (with	one	binding	site),	oxygen	
(with	two	binding	sites),	or	a	hydrogen–oxygen	combination	(OH)	referred	to	as	hydroxyl.
Classification of carbohydrates
Carbohydrates	 have	been	typically	 classified	 as	simple	carbohydrates	 that	include	
monosaccharides and disaccharides 	and	complex	 carbohydrates	 that	include	 oligosac-
charides and polysaccharides .	Saccharide	 means	an	organic	 compound	 containing	 a	
sugar	or	sugars.	It	is	the	number	 of	saccharides	 or	sugars	linked	within	the	molecule	 that	
distinguishes	each	carbohydrate	category.
Monosaccharides
The	basic	unit	of	carbohydrate	 is	a	single	sugar	molecule,	 a	monosaccharide	 (mono	
means	one).	When	two	monosaccharides	 combine,	 they	form	a	disaccharide	 (di	means	
)UXFWRVH *OXFRVHD E F *DODFWRVH+
+&2
& +2 +
+& 2+
+& 2+
+&2+&2+ ++
+&2+
& +2 +
+2&+
+& 2+
+&2+&2
+
+&2+
& +2 +
+& 2+
+& 2+
+&2+&
++ 2&+2+
2+ ++
++2+
2++22 +
& &&
&&&+2+
2+ ++
+2++
2++2 +2
& &&
&&
2+&+2+
&+2+
+++
2+
2+2
& &
&&
Figure 2.1 		Chemical	 structure	 of	the	three	monosaccharides	 depicted	 in	both	the	linear	and	
ring	configurations

24		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
two).	Monosaccharides	 and	disaccharides	 are	known	as	simple	sugars,	or	simple	carbo-
hydrates.	 The	three	most	common	 monosaccharides	 in	the	diet	are	glucose,	 fructose,	
and galactose .	Each	contains	 6	carbon,	12	hydrogen,	 and	6	oxygen	atoms	but	differ	in	
their	arrangement	 (Figure 	2.1). 	Glucose,	 also	called	dextrose	 or	blood	sugar,	is	pro-
duced	in	plants	through	 the	process	of	photosynthesis,	 which	uses	energy	from	the	sun	
to	combine	 carbon	dioxide	and	water.	Glucose	 rarely	occurs	as	monosaccharide	 in	food;	
it	is	most	often	found	as	part	of	a	disaccharide	 or	starch.	The	digestion	 of	more	complex	
carbohydrates	 also	produces	 glucose,	 which	is	then	absorbed	 across	the	wall	of	the	small	
intestine	 so	that	it	can	be	(1)	used	directly	by	cells	for	energy,	(2)	stored	as	glycogen	 in	
muscle	and	liver,	or	(3)	converted	 into	fat.	Inside	of	the	body,	glucose	can	be	formed	
from	the	breakdown	 of	stored	carbohydrate	 (i.e.,	glycogen),	 or	synthesized	 from	carbon	
skeletons	of	specific	amino	acids,	glycerol,	pyruvate,	and	lactate.
	 Fructose,	 also	called	fruit	sugar,	is	another	common	 monosaccharide.	 It	tastes	sweeter	
than	glucose.	 It	is	found	naturally	 in	fruits	and	vegetables	 mostly	as	a	part	of	sucrose,	 a	
disaccharide,	 and	make	up	more	than	half	of	the	sugar	in	honey.	It	accounts	 for	about	
10	percent	of	the	average	energy	intake	in	the	United	States.	The	small	intestine	 absorbs	
some	fructose	 directly	into	the	blood.	It	is	then	transported	 to	the	liver	where	it	is	
quickly	metabolized.	 Much	is	converted	 into	glucose,	 but	the	rest	goes	on	to	form	other	
compounds,	 such	as	fat,	if	fructose	 is	consumed	 in	very	high	amounts.	 Most	of	the	free	
fructose	 in	our	diets	comes	from	the	use	of	high-	fructose	 corn	syrup	in	soft	drinks,	
candies,	jams,	jelly,	and	many	other	fruit	products	and	desserts.
	 Galactose	 occurs	most	often	as	a	part	of	lactose,	the	disaccharide	 in	milk,	and	is	rarely	
present	as	a	monosaccharide	 in	the	food	supply.	After	lactose	is	digested	 and	absorbed,	
galactose	 arrives	in	the	liver.	There	it	is	either	transformed	 into	glucose	or	further	
metabolized	into	glycogen.
Disaccharides
The	combination	 of	two	monosaccharides	 yields	a	disaccharide.	 The	disaccharides	
(double	 sugars)	include	 sucrose	(cane	sugar	or	table	sugar),	 maltose	(malt	sugar),	and	
lactose	(milk	sugar).	Sucrose	 forms	when	the	two	sugars	glucose	and	fructose	 bond	
together	 (Figure 	2.2). 	Sucrose	is	found	naturally	 in	sugarcane,	 sugar	beets,	honey,	and	
maple	sugar.	These	products	 are	processed	 to	varying	degrees	 to	make	brown,	white,	
and	powdered	 sugars.	Animals	 do	not	produce	 sucrose	or	much	of	any	carbohydrate	
except	for	glycogen.	 Sucrose	is	considered	 to	be	the	most	common	 dietary	disaccharide	
and	constitutes	up	to	25	percent	of	the	total	caloric	intake	in	the	United	States.
	 Maltose	 is	a	disaccharide	 consisting	 of	two	molecules	 of	glucose	(Figure 	2.2). 	This	
sugar	is	made	whenever	 starch	breaks	down,	as	happens	 in	plants	when	seeds	germinate	
and	in	human	beings	during	carbohydrate	 digestion.	 For	example,	 this	sugar	is	respons-
ible	for	the	slightly	sweet	taste	experienced	 when	bread	is	held	in	the	mouth	for	a	few	
minutes.	 As	salivary	 amylase	begins	digesting	 the	starch,	some	sweeter-	tasting	maltose	is	
formed.	 Maltose	plays	an	important	 role	in	the	beer	and	liquor	industry.	 In	the	produc-
tion	of	alcoholic	 beverages,	 starches	 in	various	cereal	grains	are	first	converted	 into	
simpler	carbohydrates.	 The	products	 of	this	step	–	maltose,	 glucose,	 and	other	sugars	–	
are	then	mixed	with	yeast	cells	in	the	absence	 of	oxygen.	The	yeast	cells	convert	most	
sugars	into	alcohol	or	ethanol	and	carbon	dioxide,	a	process	called	 fermentation.
	 Lactose	 forms	when	glucose	 bonds	with	galactose	 during	the	synthesis	 of	milk	
(Figure	2.2). 	Lactose	is	the	only	sugar	found	naturally	 in	animal	foods.	Depending	 on	
milk’s	fat	content,	 lactose	contributes	 30	to	50	percent	of	the	energy	in	milks.	As	the	
least	sweet	of	the	disaccharides,	 lactose	can	be	artificially	 processed	 and	is	often	present	
in	carbohydrate-	 rich,	high-	calorie	liquid	meals.	A	substantial	 segment	 of	the	world’s	

Macronutrients: carbohydrates 		25
population	 is	lactose	intolerant;	 these	individuals	 lack	adequate	 quantities	 of	the	enzyme	
lactase	that	splits	lactose	into	glucose	and	galactose	during	digestion.
Complex carbohydrates
Complex	 carbohydrates	 are	made	up	of	many	monosaccharides	 linked	together	 in	
chains	(Figure 	2.3). 	They	are	generally	 not	sweet	to	the	taste	like	simple	carbohydrates.	
Short	chains	of	three	to	ten	monosaccharides	 are	called	oligosaccharides	 and	chains	that	
contain	more	than	ten	monosaccharides	 are	called	polysaccharides.	 Oligosaccharides	
such	as	raffinose	 and	stachyose	 are	found	in	beans,	cabbage,	 Brussels	 sprouts,	broccoli,	
asparagus,	 other	vegetables,	 and	wholegrains.	 These	cannot	be	digested	 by	enzymes	 in	
the	human	stomach	 and	small	intestine,	 so	they	pass	undigested	 into	the	large	intestine.	
Here	bacteria	 digest	them,	producing	 gas	and	other	by-	products,	 which	can	cause	
abdominal	 discomfort	 and	flatulence.	 Over-	the-counter	 enzyme	tablets	and	solutions,	
such	as	Bean-	O,	can	be	consumed	 to	break	down	oligosaccharides	 before	they	reach	the	
intestinal	bacteria,	thereby	reducing	the	amount	of	gas	produced.
Starch
The	term	polysaccharide	 refers	to	the	linkage	of	ten	to	thousands	 of	monosaccharide	
residues	 by	glycosidic	 bonds.	Polysaccharides	 are	classified	 into	plant	and	animal	
categories.	 Polysaccharides	 stored	in	plants	are	mainly	referred	 to	as	starch,	a	long,	
branched	 or	unbranched	 chain	of	hundreds	 or	thousands	 of	glucose	molecules	 linked	
together.	 These	giant	starch	molecules	 are	packed	side	by	side	in	grains	such	as	in	wheat	Sucrose
(glucose and
fructoseCH2OH
OH HH
H OHHOO
OH HCH2OH
OHHO H
HOH
CH2OH
Lactose
(galactose and
glucose)CH2OH
CH2OHH
OH HH
H OHHOO
O
H HHOH
OOH HHOH
H
Maltose
(glucose and
glucose)CH2OH
OH HH
H OHHOO
OH HCH2OH
OH HH
H OHHOO
H
H(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 2.2	Chemical	structure	of	the	three	disaccharides	depicted	in	the	ring	configurations

26		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
or	rice,	in	root	crops	and	tubers	such	as	yams	and	potatoes,	 and	in	legumes	 such	as	peas	
and	beans.	When	you	eat	the	plant,	your	body	hydrolyzes	 the	starch	to	glucose	and	uses	
the	glucose	as	an	energy	source.	All	starchy	foods	come	from	plants.	Grains	are	the	
richest	food	sources	of	starch,	providing	 much	of	food	energy	all	over	the	world	–	rice	in	
Asia;	wheat	in	Canada,	 the	United	States,	and	Europe;	 corn	in	much	of	Central	and	
South	America;	and	millet,	rye,	barley,	and	oats	elsewhere.
	 There	 are	two	forms	of	starch	digestible	 by	humans:	 amylose and amylopectin 
(Figure	2.3).	Amylose, 	a	long,	straight	 chain	of	glucose	 units,	comprises	 about	20	
percent	 of	the	digestible	 starches	 found	in	vegetables,	 beans,	breads,	pasta,	and	rice.	
Amylopectin	 is	a	highly	branched	 chain	and	makes	up	the	remaining	 80	percent	 of	
digestible	 starches	 in	the	diet.	The	relative	proportion	 of	each	starch	form	determines	
the	digestibility	 of	a	food	containing	 starch.	The	enzymes	 that	break	down	starches	 into	
glucose	and	other	related	sugars	act	only	at	the	end	of	a	glucose	chain.	Amylopectin,	
because	 it	is	branched,	 provides	 many	more	ends	for	enzyme	action.	Therefore,	 amylo-
pectin	is	digested	 more	rapidly	and	raises	blood	glucose	 much	more	readily	than	
amylose.	 Cellulose 	is	another	 form	of	polysaccharide	 found	in	plants.	Although	 similar	
to	amylose,	it	cannot	be	digested	by	human	enzymes.
Fiber
Fiber	as	a	class	is	mostly	made	up	of	polysaccharides,	 but	they	differ	from	starches	 in	
that	the	chemical	 links	that	join	the	individual	 sugar	units	cannot	be	digested	 by	human	
enzymes	 in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	This	prevents	 the	small	intestine	 from	absorbing	
the	sugars	that	make	up	the	fibers.	Consequently,	 fibers	contribute	 little	or	no	energy	to	
the	body.	Fibers	exist	exclusively	 in	plants;	they	make	up	the	structure	 of	leaves,	stems,	
roots,	seeds,	and	fruit	covering.	 Fiber	is	not	a	single	substance,	 but	a	group	of	substances	
including	 cellulose,	 hemicelluloses,	 pectins,	 gums,	and	mucilages,	 as	well	as	the	non-	
carbohydrate,	 lignin.	In	total,	these	constitute	 all	the	non-	starch	polysaccharides	 in	
foods.	Nutrition	 facts	labels	generally	 do	not	list	these	individual	 forms	of	fiber,	but	
instead	lump	them	together	under	the	term	dietary	fiber.
	 These	 various	forms	of	fiber	differ	in	many	aspects,	but	may	generally	 be	divided	into	
two	categories:	 soluble fiber and insoluble fiber 	(Table	2.1). 	Some	forms	of	fiber	are	$P\ORSHFWLQ$P\ORVH
D6WDUFK E*O\FRJHQ
Figure 2.3 	Comparison	of	some	common	starches	and	glycogen

Macronutrients: carbohydrates   27
considered	 soluble	because	they	can	be	digested	 by	bacteria	in	the	large	intestine.	 These	
soluble	fibers	are	found	around	and	inside	the	plant	cells.	They	include	pectins,	gums,	
mucilages,	 and	some	hemicelluloses.	 They	can	form	viscous	solutions	 when	placed	in	
water	and	are	therefore	 referred	 to	as	soluble	fibers.	Food	sources	of	soluble	fibers	
include	oats,	apples,	beans,	and	seaweed.	 Fibers	that	cannot	be	broken	down	by	bacteria	
in	the	large	intestine	 and	do	not	dissolve	in	water	are	called	insoluble	 fibers.	Insoluble	
fibers	are	primarily	 derived	from	the	structural	 parts	of	plants,	such	as	cell	walls,	and	
include	 cellulose,	 some	hemicelluloses,	 and	lignin.	Food	sources	 of	insoluble	 fiber	
include	wheat	bran	and	rye	bran,	which	are	mostly	hemicelluloses	 and	celluloses,	 and	
vegetables	 such	as	broccoli,	 which	contain	woody	fibers	comprised	 partly	of	lignin.	Most	
foods	of	plant	origin	contain	mixtures	of	soluble	and	insoluble	fibers.
Glycogen
Glycogen	 is	found	to	only	a	limited	extent	in	meats	and	not	at	all	in	plants.	For	this	
reason,	glycogen	 is	not	a	significant	 food	source	of	carbohydrate,	 but	it	does	perform	 an	
important	 role	in	the	body.	Glycogen	 consists	of	a	chain	of	glucose	units	with	many	
branches,	 providing	 even	more	sites	for	enzyme	action	than	amylopectin	 (Figure	2.3).	
Such	a	highly	branched	 arrangement	 permits	rapid	hydrolysis	 or	breakdown.	 When	the	
hormone	 message	 “release	energy”	arrives	at	the	storage	sites	in	the	liver	or	muscle	cell,	
enzymes	 respond	 by	attacking	 all	the	many	branches	 of	each	glycogen	 simultaneously,	
thereby	making	a	surge	of	glucose	possible.
	 Glycogen	 is	the	only	stored	form	of	carbohydrates	 in	humans.	 However,	 the	amount	
of	glycogen	 in	the	body	is	relatively	 small	–	about	400	to	500	grams.	Glycogen	 is	mainly	
stored	in	muscle	and	the	liver.	A	well-	nourished	 80-kg	person	can	store	up	to	approxi-
mately	500	grams	with	80	percent	 or	~400	grams	of	it	existing	 as	muscle	glycogen.	
Because	 each	gram	of	carbohydrate	 contains	 about	4	kcal	of	energy,	the	typical	person	
stores	between	 1500	and	2000	kcal	of	carbohydrate	 energy	–	enough	 total	energy	to	
power	a	high-	intensity	 20-mile	run.	The	amount	 of	glycogen	 stored	in	muscle	can	be	
temporarily	 increased	 by	a	diet	and	exercise	 regimen	 called	carbohydrate	 loading	or	gly-
cogen	super-	compensation.	 This	regimen	 is	often	used	by	endurance	 athletes	to	build	
up	glycogen	 stores	before	an	event.	Extra	glycogen	 can	mean	the	difference	 between	
running	 only	20	miles	and	finishing	 a	26-mile	marathon	 before	exhaustion	 takes	over.	
The	details	regarding	 how	glycogen	 super-	compensation	 is	carried	out	are	provided	 in	
Chapter	10.
Food sources of carbohydrates
The	foods	that	yield	the	highest	percentage	 of	calories	 from	carbohydrates	 are	table	
sugar,	honey,	jam,	jelly,	and	fruits.	Table 	2.2 	lists	common	 food	sources	of	carbohydrates,	Table 2.1  Classification of fibers
Type Chemical components Physiological effects Major food sources
Insoluble 
fibersCelluloses,	
hemicelluloses,	ligninIncrease	fecal	bulk,	decrease	
intestinal transit timeWheat	bran,	rye	bran,	
wholegrains,	broccoli	
Soluble	
fibersPectins,	gums,	mucilages,	
some hemicellulosesDelay	stomach	emptying,	
slow	glucose	absorptionOats,	apples,	beans,	
barley,	carrots,	citrus	
fruits,	seaweed	

28		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
among	which	cornflakes,	 rice,	bread,	and	noodles	all	contain	at	least	75	percent	of	calo-
ries	as	carbohydrate.	 Foods	with	moderate	 amounts	 of	carbohydrate	 calories	are	peas,	
broccoli,	 oatmeal,	 dry	beans	and	other	legumes,	 cream	pies,	French	fries,	and	fat-	free	
milk.	In	these	foods,	carbohydrate	 content	is	diluted	either	by	protein	or	by	fat.	Foods	
with	essentially	 no	carbohydrates	 include	beef,	eggs,	poultry,	fish,	vegetable	 oils,	butter,	
and	margarine.
	 It	is	recommended	 that	adults	consume	 14	grams	of	dietary	fiber	per	1000	kcal.	
However,	 the	average	daily	intake	of	fiber	in	the	United	States	is	about	half	this	amount	
(Lang	and	Jebb	2003).	There	are	many	ways	to	ensure	adequate 	fiber	intake.	Wholegrains	
and	cereals,	legumes,	 fruits,	and	vegetables	 are	probably	 the	best	options.	It	is	important	 to	
select	foods	made	with	wholegrains.	 Nutritionally,	 white	bread,	white	rice,	and	white	pasta	
are	no	match	for	their	whole-	grain	counterparts.	 This	is	because	the	nutritional	 value	of	
wholegrain	 is	greatest	 when	all	three	layers	of	wheat	kernel,	namely	bran,	germ,	and	
endosperm,	 are	intact.	Generally	 speaking,	 coats	of	grains	and	legumes	 and	the	skins	and	
peel	of	fruits	and	vegetables	 contain	relatively	 high	fiber	content.	 Milling	removes	 the	bran	
and	germ	layers,	resulting	 in	finely	ground,	refined	flour.	To	restore	some	of	the	lost	nutri-
ents,	food	manufacturers	 fortify	their	products	 with	a	variety	of	vitamins	 and	minerals. 	
However,	 many	other	important	 nutrients	 lost	during	processing	 are	not	replaced.	 The	
fiber	contents	of	selected	foods	are	shown	in	Table	2.3.
	 Both	monosaccharides	 and	disaccharides	 are	collectively	 regarded	 as	sugars.	Sugars	
may	also	be	divided	into	added	sugars	and	naturally	 occurring	 sugars.	Added	sugars	are	
not	nutritionally	 and	chemically	 different	 from	sugars	occurring	 naturally	 in	foods.	The	
only	difference	 is	that	they	have	been	refined	and	thus	separated	 from	their	plant	
sources,	 such	as	sugarcane	 and	sugar	beets.	Foods	in	which	naturally	 occurring	 sugar	
predominate,	 such	as	milk,	fruits,	and	vegetables, 	provide 	not	only	energy	but	also	fiber	
and	micronutrients.	 In	contrast,	 foods	with	large	amounts	 of	added	sugars,	such	as	soft	
drinks,	cakes,	cookies,	 and	candy,	often	have	little	nutritional	 value	beyond	the	calories	
they	contain.	 For	example,	 a	tablespoon	 of	sugar	contains	 50	kilocalories	 but	almost	no	Table 2.2	Selected	food	sources	of	carbohydrate
Foods Serving size Carbohydrate (g)
Baked	potato 1 51
Spaghetti	noodles 1	cup 40
Cola	drink 12	fluid	ounces 39
M&M	candies 1/2	ounce 30
Banana 1 28
Rice	(cooked) 1/2	cup 22
Corn	(cooked) 1/2	cup 21
Low-fat	yogurt 1	cup 19
Kidney beans 1/2	cup 19
Orange 1 16
Carrot	(cooked) 1	cup 16
Wholewheat	bread 1	slice 16
Oatmeal 1/2	cup 13
1%	milk 1	cup 13
Kiwi 1 11
Pineapple	chunks 1/2	cup 10
Broccoli 1	cup  7
Peanut butter 2	tablespoon  7
Peanuts 1	ounce 	6
Tofu 1	cup 	4

Macronutrients: carbohydrates 		29
nutrients	 other	than	sugar.	A	small	orange	also	has	about	50	kilocalories	 but	contributes	
vitamin	C,	folate,	potassium,	 some	calcium	 as	well	as	fiber.	Foods	that	contain	most	of	
the	added	sugars	in	American	diets	are	as	follows:
•	 Regular	soft	drinks
•	 Candy
•	 Cakes
•	 Cookies
•	 Pies
•	 Fruit	drinks,	such	as	fruit	juice	and	fruit	punch
•	 Milk-	 based	products,	such	as	ice	cream,	sweetened	yogurt,	and	sweetened	milk
•	 Grain	products,	such	as	sweet	rolls	and	cinnamon	toast.Table 2.3	The	dietary	fiber	content	in	selected	common	foods
Foods Serving size Fiber (g)
Fruits
Raspberries 1	cup 8.0
Pear,	with	skin 1	medium 5.5
Apple,	with	skin 1	medium 4.4
Strawberries	(halves) 1	1/4	cups 3.8
Banana 1	medium 3.1
Orange 1	medium 3.1
Raisins 2	tablespoons 1.0
Grains, cereals, and pasta
Spaghetti,	wholewheat,	cooked 1	cup 6.2
Barley,	pearled,	cooked 1	cup 6.0
Bran	flakes 3/4	cup 5.3
Oat	bran	muffin 1	medium 5.2
Oatmeal,	quick,	regular,	or	instant,	cooked 1	cup 4.0
Popcorn,	air-popped 3	cups 3.5
Brown	rice,	cooked 1	cup 3.5
Bread,	rye 1	slice 1.9
Bread,	wholewheat	or	multigrain 1	slice 1.9
Legumes, nuts, and seeds
Split	peas,	cooked 1	cup 16.3
Lentils,	cooked 1	cup 15.6
Black	beans,	cooked 1	cup 15.0
Lima	beans,	cooked 1	cup 13.2
Baked	beans,	vegetarian,	canned,	cooked 1	cup 10.4
Almonds 1	ounce	(23	nuts) 3.5
Pistachio nuts 1	ounce	(49	nuts) 2.9
Pecans 1	ounce	(19	halves) 2.7
Vegetables
Peas,	cooked 1	cup 8.8
Broccoli,	boiled 1	cup 5.1
Turnip	greens,	boiled 1	cup 5.0
Sweet	corn,	cooked 1	cup 4.2
Brussels	sprouts,	cooked 1	cup 4.1
Potato,	with	skin,	baked 1	medium 2.9
Tomato	paste 1/4	cup 2.7
Carrot,	raw 1	medium 1.7
Source:	adapted	from	the	data	provided	by	Mayo	Clinics.

30		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
Major roles of carbohydrates in the body
The	major	function	 of	carbohydrates	 in	the	body	is	to	provide	energy,	especially	 during	
high-	intensity	 exercise.	 Energy	derived	from	blood-	borne	glucose	and	the	breakdown	 of	
muscle	and	liver	glycogen	 ultimately	 powers	contractile	 processes	 of	skeletal,	 cardiac,	
and	smooth	muscle	tissues.	Some	of	the	energy	is	also	used	for	many	other	biological	
processes,	 such	as	digestion	 and	absorption,	 glandular	 secretion,	 metabolic	 reactions,	
and	homeostatic	regulations.
Storing glucose as glycogen
After	a	meal,	monosaccharides	 are	absorbed	 and	travel	via	the	hepatic	portal	vein	to	
the	liver	where	much	of	the	fructose	 and	galactose	 is	metabolized	 for	energy.	The	fate	
of	the	absorbed	 glucose	 depends	 on	the	energy	needs	of	the	body.	If	glucose	 is	
needed	for	the	tissues,	it	is	transported 	in	the	blood,	reaching 	cells	throughout 	the	
body.	The	amount	 of	glucose	 in	the	blood	is	regulated	 at	about	70	to	100	mg	per	
100	ml	of	blood.	This	ensures	adequate	 glucose	delivery	 to	body	cells,	which	is	particu-
larly	important 	for	brain	and	red	blood	cells	that	rely	almost	exclusively 	on	glucose	as	
an	energy	source.	If	blood	glucose	levels	rise	too	high,	the	secretion	 of	insulin	from	
the	pancreas	 is	increased.	 This	will	then	cause	liver	cells	to	link	the	excess	glucose	
molecules	 by	condensation	 reaction	 into	long,	branched	 chains	of	glycogen.	 When	
blood	glucose	levels	fall	below	the	normal	range,	secretion	 of	glucagon	 from	the	pan-
creas	increases,	 and	as	a	result	the	liver	cells	dismantle	 the	glycogen	 by	hydrolysis	 reac-
tions	into	single	molecules	 of	glucose	and	release	them	into	the	bloodstream.	 Thus,	
glucose	becomes 	available 	to	supply	energy	to	the	brain	and	other	tissues,	regardless	
of	whether	 the	person	has	eaten	recently.	 Muscle	cells	can	also	store	glucose	as	glyco-
gen,	as	mentioned	 earlier,	but	they	keep	most	of	their	supply,	using	it	just	for	them-
selves	during	exercise.	 Glycogen	 holds	water	and	thus	is	rather	bulky.	This	is	why	the	
body	can	only	store	enough	glycogen	 to	provide	energy	for	relatively	 short	periods	of	
time	–	less	than	a	day	during	rest	and	a	few	hours	at	most	during	exercise.	 For	its	long-
	term	energy	reserves	or	for	use	over	days	or	weeks	of	food	deprivation, 	the	body	uses	
its	abundant,	water-	 free	fuel:	fat.
Using carbohydrates as energy
The	main	function	 of	carbohydrates	 is	to	supply	calories	 for	use	by	the	body.	Certain	
tissues	in	the	body,	such	as	red	blood	cells,	can	use	only	glucose	as	fuel.	Most	parts	of	
the	brain	and	central	nervous	 system	also	derive	energy	only	from	glucose	unless	the	
diet	contains	 almost	none.	In	that	case,	much	of	the	brain	can	use	partial	breakdown 	
products	 of	fat	called	ketone	bodies	for	energy	needs.	Other	body	cells,	including 	
muscle	cells,	can	use	carbohydrates	 as	a	fuel	but	they	can	also	use	fat	or	protein	for	
energy	needs.	Glucose	 fuels	the	work	of	most	body	cells.	Inside	a	cell,	glucose	 is	
metabolized	 through	 cellular	 respiration	 to	produce	 carbon	dioxide,	 water,	and	
energy	in	the	form	of	ATP.	Providing 	energy	through	cellular	respiration 	involves	
several	interconnected	 chemical	 pathways	 that	take	place	primarily	 in	mitochondria. 	
As	mentioned	 earlier,	liver	cells	store	glucose	 in	the	form	of	glycogen	 as	a	reserve.	
However,	 the	total	glycogen	 stores	in	the	liver	last	only	for	hours.	To	keep	providing 	
glucose	 to	meet	the	body’s	energy	 needs,	a	person	 has	to	consume	 dietary	
carbohydrate 	frequently. 	Those	who	fail	to	meet	their	carbohydrate 	requirements	
may	draw	energy	from	the	other	two	energy-	yielding	 nutrients,	 namely	 fat	and	
protein.	 Nevertheless,	 their	level	of	performance	 during	vigorous	 exercise	 may	
reduce	significantly.

Macronutrients: carbohydrates 		31
Sparing protein from use as an energy source
A	diet	that	supplies	enough	digestible	 carbohydrates	 to	prevent	the	breakdown	 of	proteins	
for	energy	needs	is	considered	 protein	sparing.	Under	normal	circumstances,	 of	digestible 	
carbohydrates	 in	the	diet	most	end	up	as	blood	glucose,	and	protein	is	reserved	 for	func-
tions	such	as	building	 and	maintaining	 muscles	and	vital	organs.	However,	 if	you	don’t	eat	
enough	carbohydrates, 	your	body	is	forced	to	make	glucose	from	body	protein.	This	
process	of	producing 	new	glucose	using	non-	glucose	molecules 	such	as	amino	acids	is	
called gluconeogenesis .	The	gluconeogenesis 	occurs	in	the	liver	and	kidney	cells	and	is	
stimulated	 by	the	hormone	 glucagon	 secreted	 from	the	pancreas	 in	response	 to	a	
decreased 	blood	glucose	concentration. 	Newly	synthesized 	glucose	is	released	into	the	
blood	to	prevent	blood	glucose	from	dropping	 below	the	normal	range.	However,	 such	a	
process	of	gluconeogenesis,	 if	continued,	 can	drain	the	pool	of	amino	acids	available	 in	
cells	for	other	crucial	functions.	 During	long-	term	starvation,	 the	continuous	 withdrawal	 of	
protein	from	the	muscles,	 heart,	liver,	kidney,	and	other	vital	organs	may	result	in	weak-
ness,	poor	function, 	and	even	failure	of	the	body	system.	Gluconeogenesis 	can	also	be	
stimulated	 by	the	hormone	 cortisol.	This	hormone	 responds	 to	dangerous	 or	stressful	situ-
ations	by	causing	a	rapid	release	of	glucose	into	the	blood	to	meet	energy	needs.
Carbohydrates are needed to break down fat
In	addition	 to	the	loss	of	protein,	 insufficient	 carbohydrate	 intake	can	also	affect	fat	
metabolism.	 To	metabolize	 fat	completely,	 a	small	amount	 of	carbohydrates	 must	be	
available.	 This	is	because	 acetyl-	CoA,	produced	 from	fat	breakdown,	 may	be	used	to	
produce	 energy	via	the	Krebs	cycle	only	if	it	can	combine	 with	a	four-	carbon	oxaloace -
tate	molecule	 derived	from	carbohydrate	 metabolism.	 When	carbohydrates	 are	in	short	
supply,	oxaloacetate	 is	limited	and	acetyl	CoA	cannot	be	metabolized	 to	carbon	dioxide	
and	water.	Instead,	 liver	cells	convert	acetyl-	CoA	into	compounds	 known	as	ketones	or	
ketone	bodies	(Figure 	2.4). 	Ketone	production	 is	a	normal	response	 to	limitations	 of	
glucose	transport	 into	the	cell	such	as	in	diabetes	 or	glycogen	 depletion	 through	 starva-
tion,	a	very	low	carbohydrate	 diet,	or	prolonged	 exercise.	 Ketones	 can	be	used	for	
Fatty acids
Acetyl-CoACarbohydrate
unavailableSufficient
carbohydrate
Oxaloacetate Ketone bodies
Accumulate
in bloodUsed
for energyExcreted
in urineATP
H2O
CO2Krebs
cycle
Figure 2.4	The	availability	of	carbohydrate	determines	how	fatty	acids	are	metabolized

32  Macronutrients: carbohydrates
energy	by	tissues,	such	as	those	in	the	heart,	muscle,	and	kidney.	Even	the	brain,	which	
requires	 glucose,	 can	adapt	to	obtain	a	proportion	 of	its	energy	from	ketones.	 Excess	
ketones	are	excreted	 by	the	kidney	in	urine.	However,	 if	excretion	 is	outpaced	 by	pro-
duction,	 or	fluid	intake	is	too	low	to	produce	 enough	urine	to	excrete	ketones,	 ketones	
can	build	up	in	the	blood,	causing	ketosis.	Mild	ketosis,	which	occurs	with	moderate	
caloric	restriction	 such	as	during	a	weight	loss	diet,	produces	 symptoms	 including	 head-
ache,	a	dry	mouth,	foul-	smelling	 breath,	and,	in	some	cases,	a	reduction	 in	appetite.	
High	ketone	levels,	if	left	untreated,	 will	increase	 the	acidity	of	the	blood	and	may	result	
in	coma	and	death.
Glycemic response
Our	bodies	react	differently	 to	different	 sources	of	carbohydrates.	 For	example,	 a	serving	
of	a	high-	fiber	food,	such	as	baked	beans,	results	in	lower	blood	glucose	levels	compared	 to	
the	same	serving	size	of	mashed	potatoes.	 How	quickly	blood	glucose	levels	rise	after	a	
meal	is	affected	by	the	composition	 of	the	food	or	meal.	Fat	and	protein	consumed	 with	
high-	carbohydrate	 foods	cause	the	stomach	 to	empty	more	slowly	and	therefore	 delay	the	
rate	at	which	glucose	enters	the	small	intestine	 where	it	is	absorbed.	 This	will	then	cause	a	
slower	rise	in	blood	glucose.	Fiber	also	slows	the	rise	in	blood	glucose	because	fiber,	due	to	
its	unique	structure,	 takes	longer	to	be	digested.	 In	contrast,	 drinking	 a	sugar-	sweetened 	
soft	drink	on	an	empty	stomach	 will	cause	blood	glucose	to	increase	 rapidly.	As	for	a	meal	
we	consume	 daily,	the	glycemic	 responses	 can	vary	depending	 upon	its	nutrient	 composi-
tion.	For	example, 	for	a	meal	mixed	with	chicken,	rice,	and	green	beans,	which	contains	
starch,	fat,	protein,	and	fiber,	it	will	take	at	least	30	minutes	before	blood	glucose	begins	to	
rise.	However,	 blood	glucose	will	rise	much	more	quickly	if	we	consume	 a	meal	consisting 	
of	primarily	carbohydrates,	such	as	spaghetti	or	white	bread.
	 Two	food	measurements 	have	been	developed 	to	predict	the	blood	glucose	response 	to	
various	foods	and	to	plan	a	diet	to	avoid	hyperglycemia.	 The	first	of	these	tools	is	glycemic 
index	(GI).	Glycemic	 index	is	the	ratio	of	the	blood	glucose	response	 to	a	given	food	com-
pared	to	a	standard	 or	reference	 food	(typically,	 glucose	or	while	bread).	It	is	a	numerical 	
system	of	measuring	 how	quickly	and	how	high	ingesting	 a	carbohydrate	 food	triggers	a	
rise	in	circulating	 blood	glucose.	 Keep	in	mind,	however,	 that	one	person’s	 glycemic	
response 	to	a	given	food	may	be	very	different	from	someone 	else’s.	Moreover, 	people	do	
not	normally	 consume	 carbohydrate	 foods	by	themselves,	 but	often	with	other	foods	con-
taining	fat	and	protein,	 such	as	a	hamburger	 on	a	bun.	Indeed,	glycemic	 index	can	be	
influenced	 by	many	factors,	including	 rate	of	ingestion,	 fiber	content,	 fat	and	protein	
content,	 starch	characteristics,	 food	form,	gastric	emptying,	 and	gastrointestinal	 digestion 	
and	absorption.	 For	example,	 mashed	potatoes	 are	associated	 with	higher	glycemic	 index	
due	to	higher	amylopectin	 content	and	greater	surface	area	exposed.	 On	the	other	hand,	
fructose	has	a	low	glycemic	 response	 mainly	because	of	its	slower	absorption	 rate.	In	fact,	
this	is	one	of	the	reasons	why	fructose	has	been	recommended	 for	use	as	a	carbohydrate 	
supplement	 prior	to	an	athletic	event.	A	fast	rise	in	blood	glucose	can	create	an	insulin	
response	and	the	potential	reactive	hypoglycemia,	which	is	detrimental	to	performance.
	 Another	 shortcoming	 of	glycemic	 index	is	that	it	does	not	account	for	the	amount	of	
carbohydrate	 found	in	a	typical	serving	size.	Rather,	it	is	based	on	blood	glucose	response 	
to	consuming	 50	grams	of	carbohydrates	 in	a	given	food.	For	example,	 to	consume	 50	
grams	of	carbohydrates	 from	carrots,	a	person	would	need	to	eat	more	than	a	pound,	
whereas	a	cup	of	rice	(about	8	ounces)	provides	 approximately	 42	grams	of	carbohydrates. 	
Therefore,	 another	measure	 used	to	assess	the	effect	of	food	on	blood	glucose	response	 is	
the	glycemic	load	(GL).	The	glycemic	load	may	be	a	more	useful	measure, 	because	it	takes	
into	account	the	glycemic	 index	of	a	food	as	well	as	the	amount	of	carbohydrate	 typically	

Macronutrients: carbohydrates   33
found	in	a	single	serving	of	the	food.	To	calculate	 the	glycemic	 load	of	a	food,	the	amount	
(in	grams)	of	carbohydrate	 in	a	serving	of	the	food	is	multiplied	 by	the	glycemic	 index	of	
that	food,	and	then	divided	by	100.	For	example,	 vanilla	wafers	have	a	glycemic	 index	of	
77,	and	a	small	serving	contains	 15	grams	of	carbohydrate.	 Hence,	its	glycemic	 load	is	
(glycemic 	index	×	grams	of	carbohydrate) 	÷	100	=	(77	×	15)	÷	100	=	12.	Even	though	the	
glycemic	 index	of	vanilla	wafers	is	considered	 high,	the	glycemic	 load	calculation	 shows	
that	the	impact	of	this	food	upon	blood	glucose	 levels	is	relatively	 low.	Table 	2.4	
lists	glycemic	 index	and	glycemic	 load	values	of	commonly	 consumed	 foods	(Foster-	Powell	
et al.	2002).
Maintaining glucose homeostasis
Every	body	cell	depends	 on	glucose	for	its	fuel	to	some	extent,	and	cells	of	the	brain	and	
the	rest	of	the	nervous	system	depend	almost	exclusively	 on	glucose	for	their	energy.	The	
activities	 of	these	cells	never	cease,	and	they	do	not	have	the	ability	to	store	glucose.	 Day	
and	night	they	continually	 draw	upon	the	supply	of	glucose	in	the	fluid	surrounding	 them.	
To	maintain 	the	supply,	a	steady	stream	of	blood	moves	past	these	cells	bringing	more	
glucose	from	either	the	intestines	 (food)	or	the	liver	(via	glycogen	 breakdown	 or	glucose	
synthesis).	 To	function	 optimally,	 the	body	must	maintain	 blood	glucose	within	limits	that	
permit	the	cells	to	nourish	themselves.	 If	blood	glucose	falls	below	normal,	the	person	may	
become	lightheaded	and	fatigued,	which	could	be	fatal	if	left	untreated.
	 Blood	 glucose	homeostasis	 is	regulated	 primarily	 by	two	hormones:	 insulin,	which	
moves	glucose	from	the	blood	to	the	cells,	and	 glucagon ,	which	brings	glucose	out	of	
storage	when	necessary.	 Figure	2.5	depicts	how	these	hormones	 work.	After	a	meal,	as	
blood	glucose	rises,	special	cells	of	the	pancreas	 respond	 by	secreting	 insulin	into	the	
blood.	As	the	circulating	 insulin	contacts	 the	receptors	 of	the	body’s	other	cells,	the	
receptors	 respond	 by	allowing	 blood	glucose	to	enter	the	cells.	Most	of	the	cells	take	
only	the	glucose	they	can	use	for	energy	right	away,	but	the	liver	and	muscle	cells	can	
assemble	 the	small	glucose	units	into	long,	branching	 chains	of	glycogen	 for	storage.	
Glucose
increase
Glucose
decreaseGlucose
Glycogen
Glucose
GlycogenNo change in glucose levelsMore
insulin
secretedPancreas
receptors
Pancreas
receptorsLiver
LiverNormal blood
glucose le velsNormal blood
glucose levels
More
glucagon
secreted
Figure 2.5 	Regulation	of	blood	glucose	homeostasis	by	insulin	and	glucagon

34		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
The	liver	cells	can	also	convert	glucose	into	fat	for	export	to	other	cells.	As	a	result,	ele-
vated	blood	glucose	returns	to	normal	as	excess	glucose	is	stored	as	glycogen	 and	fat.	
When	blood	glucose	falls,	as	occurs	between	 meals,	other	special	cells	of	the	pancreas	
respond	 by	secreting	 glucagon	 into	the	blood.	Glucagon	 raises	blood	glucose	by	signal-
ing	the	liver	to	dismantle	 its	glycogen	 stores	and	release	glucose	into	the	blood	for	use	
by	all	the	other	body	cells.
Table 2.4	Glycemic	Index	(GI)	and	Glycemic	Load	(GL)	values	of	common	foods
Food Glycemic Index 1Carbohydrate/serving (g) Glycemic Load 2
Pasta/grains
White,	long	grain 56 45 25
White,	short	grain 72 53 38
Brown	rice 45 33 16
Spaghetti 41 40 16
Bread and muffins
Bagel 72 30 12
Pancake 67 58 39
Waffle 76 13 10
Oat	bran	bread 44 18 8
White	bread 70 10 7
Wholewheat	bread 69 13 9
Vegetables
Boiled	carrot 49 16 8
Baked	potato 85 57 48
Yam 37 36 13
Corn 55 39 21
Fruits
Apple 38 22 8
Banana 55 29 16
Orange 44 15 7
Grape 43 17 7
Plums 24 14 3
Cherries 22 12 3
Raisins 64 44 28
Raisin bran 61 19 12
Legumes
Baked	beans 48 54 26
Kidney beans 27 38 10
Navy beans 38 54 21
Dairy foods
Milk,	skim 32 12 4
Yogurt,	low	fat 33 17 6
Ice cream 61 31 19
Snack foods
Potato	chips 54 15 8
French fries 75 29 22
Popcorn	 54 11 6
Source:	adapted	from	Foster-Powell	 et al.	(2002).
Notes
1	Low	GI	foods:	below	55;	medium	GI	foods:	between	55	and	70;	high	GI	foods:	more	than	70.
2	Low	GL	foods:	below	15;	medium	GL	foods:	between	15	and	20;	high	GL	foods:	more	than	20.

Macronutrients: carbohydrates 		35
	 In	some	people,	however,	 blood	glucose	regulation	 falls.	When	this	happens,	 either	
of	two	conditions	 may	result:	diabetes	 or	hypoglycemia.	 In	diabetes,	 blood	glucose	surges	
after	a	meal	and	remains	 above	normal	levels	because	 insulin	is	either	inadequate	 or	
ineffective.	 There	are	two	types	of	diabetes.	 In	type 1 diabetes ,	the	less	common	 type,	
the	pancreas	 fails	to	make	insulin,	a	phenomenon	 believed	 to	be	caused	by	viruses	that	
activate	the	immune	 system	to	attack	and	destroy	cells	in	the	pancreas	 as	if	they	were	
foreign	cells.	In	type 2 diabetes ,	the	more	common	 type,	the	cells	fail	to	respond	 to	
insulin	and	this	condition	 tends	to	occur	as	a	consequence	 of	obesity.	Since	the	inci-
dence	of	obesity	has	risen	in	recent	decades,	 the	incidence	 of	diabetes	 has	followed.	
Because	 obesity	can	precipitate	 type	2	diabetes,	 the	best	preventive	 measure	 is	to	main-
tain	a	healthy	body	weight.
	 We	must	be	concerned	 with	consuming	 foods	that	have	a	high	glycemic	 load	because	
these	foods	can	elicit	a	large	release	of	insulin	from	the	pancreas.	 Chronically	 high	
insulin	output	can	lead	to	many	deleterious	 effects	on	the	body:	high	blood	triglycer-
ides,	increased	 fat	deposition	 in	the	adipose	tissue,	increased	 fat	synthesis	 in	the	liver,	
and	a	more	rapid	return	of	hunger	following	 a	meal.	Over	time,	this	increased	 insulin	
output	may	cause	muscle	to	become	resistant	 to	the	action	of	insulin,	which	can	lead	to	
type	2	diabetes	 in	some	people.	More	details	on	the	two	types	of	diabetes	 and	their	asso-
ciated	defects	in	metabolism	can	be	found	in	 Chapter	12.
	 In	healthy	people,	blood	glucose	rises	after	eating	and	then	gradually	 falls	back	into	
the	normal	range.	The	transition	 occurs	without	notice.	In	people	with	hypoglycemia,	
however,	 blood	glucose	 drops	dramatically,	 producing	 symptoms	 such	as	weakness,	
sweating,	 anxiety,	hunger,	 rapid	pulse,	and	trembling.	 Hypoglycemia	 in	healthy	people	
is	rare.	Most	commonly,	 hypoglycemia	 occurs	because	of	poorly	managed	 diabetes.	 Too	
much	insulin,	strenuous	 physical	 activity,	inadequate	 food	intake,	or	illness	can	cause	
blood	glucose	to	fall	below	the	normal	level.
Health correlates of carbohydrates
There	is	evidence	 that	a	high	sugar	intake	can	adversely	 affect	blood	lipid	levels,	
thereby	 increasing	 the	risk	of	heart	disease.	 However,	 diets	high	in	wholegrains	 and	
fibers	may	reduce	blood	cholesterol	 levels	and	thus	protect	against	heart	diseases	 and	
stroke	(Kushi	 et al.	1999,	Trumbo	 et al.	2002).	Studies	indicate	that	soluble	fibers	from	
foods	such	as	legumes,	 oats,	pectin,	and	flax	seed	are	particularly	 effective	 in	lowering 	
blood	cholesterol	 level.	The	cholesterol-	 lowering	 effect	of	increased	 dietary	fiber	has	
been	attributed	 to	the	ability	of	soluble	fibers	to	bind	cholesterol	 and	bile	acids,	which	
are	made	from	cholesterol,	 in	the	digestive	 tract.	When	bound	to	fiber,	cholesterol 	
and	bile	acids	are	excreted	 in	feces	rather	than	being	absorbed	 and	used.	The	liver	
uses	cholesterol	 from	the	blood	to	produce	 new	bile	acids.	It	has	been	found	that	
the	bacteria	 by-	products	 of	fiber	fermentation	 in	the	colon	also	inhibit	cholesterol 	
synthesis	in	the	liver.
	 High-	fiber	foods	play	a	key	role	in	reducing	 the	risk	of	type	2	diabetes	 (Fung	 et al.	
2002).	As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	2, 	a	diet	high	in	refined	starches	and	added	sugars	causes	
greater	glycemic	 responses	 and	therefore	 increases	 the	amount	of	the	insulin	needed	to	
maintain	 normal	blood	glucose	levels.	Ample	evidence	 exists	that	long-	term	consump -
tion	of	high	fibers	and	low	sugars	decreases	 the	risk	of	developing	 type	2	diabetes	 (Liu	 et 
al.	2000,	Meyer	 et al.	2000).	It	is	believed	 that	when	viscous	fibers	trap	nutrients	 and	
delay	their	digestion	 glucose	absorption	 is	slowed,	and	this	helps	prevent	glucose	surge	
and	rebound.
	 To	many	weight	loss	enthusiasts,	 carbohydrates	 are	viewed	as	the	“fattening”	 nutrient.	
Indeed,	studies	comparing	 weight	loss	associated	 with	a	low-	vs.	high-	carbohydrate	 diet	

36		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
show	that	greater	weight	loss	is	achieved	 on	the	lower	carbohydrate	 diet	at	the	end	of	six	
months	(Foster	 et al.	2003,	Brehm	 et al.	2003).	However,	 it	should	be	emphasized	 that	
the	weight	loss	associated	 with	low	carbohydrate	 diets	is	caused	by	a	reduced	 caloric	
intake	rather	than	by	alterations	 in	macronutrient	 composition	 of	the	diet.	In	other	
words,	limited	food	choice	and	increased	 satiety	associated	 with	high-	protein,	 high-	fat	
foods	may	have	caused	people	to	eat	less	and	therefore	 lose	weight.	There	is	no	evidence	
that	carbohydrate	 restriction	 causes	the	body	to	burn	fat	more	efficiently.	 Although	 low	
carbohydrate	 diets	appear	effective	 in	the	short	term,	little,	if	anything,	 is	known	about	
their	long-	term	effects	(Astrup	 et al.	2004).	Carbohydrates	 are	no	more	fattening	 than	
any	other	energy	source,	and	gram	for	gram	it	contains	 less	than	a	half	of	the	calories	
provided	 by	fat.	In	fact,	diets	that	are	low	in	fat	and	protein	and	high	in	carbohydrates	
have	long	been	considered	 effective	 in	terms	of	weight	loss	and	weight	maintenance.	
One	should	strive	to	maintain	 an	adequate	 amount	 of	the	total	energy	intake	and	to	
minimize	 the	consumption	 of	simple	sugar,	while	maximizing	 the	consumption	 of	unre-
fined	and	complex	 carbohydrates	 rich	in	fiber.	Foods	rich	in	fiber	tend	to	be	low	in	fat	
and	added	sugars,	and	can	therefore	 promote	 weight	loss	by	delivering	 less	energy	per	
bite.	In	addition,	 as	fibers	absorb	water	from	digestive	 juices,	they	swell,	creating	 feeling	
of	fullness	and	delaying	hunger.
Carbohydrates and sports performance
Adequate	 bodily	carbohydrate	 reserves	 are	required	 for	optimal	athletic	performance.	
As	the	most	efficient	 fuel	for	the	exercising	 muscles,	 carbohydrates	 are	the	primary	
source	of	energy	during	high-	intensity	 activities.	 Extensive	 research	 confirms	 the	major	
role	carbohydrates	 play	in	endurance	 (aerobic)	 exercise	 as	well	as	in	strength	 and	power	
events.	Of	a	challenge,	 however,	 is	that	unlike	protein	and	fat,	the	body	has	limited	
carbohydrate	 reserves.	 Dietary	carbohydrates	 are	stored	in	the	body	as	glycogen	 prim-
arily	in	the	muscles	and	liver.	During	activity,	the	body	relies	on	this	stored	glycogen	 to	
be	released	 and	used	by	the	muscles	and	brain	for	energy.	The	body’s	limited	glycogen	
stores	can	be	depleted	 in	a	single	bout	of	exercise	 of	sufficient	 intensity	 and	duration.	
Thus,	daily	carbohydrate	 intake	is	necessary	 to	maintain	 these	glycogen	 stores.	If	muscle	
and	liver	glycogen	 stores	become	 depleted	 during	exercise,	 the	muscles	 will	be	left	
without	fuel	and	fatigue	will	set	in	–	a	condition	known	as	“hitting	the	wall.”
	 There	 are	other	important	 reasons	why	athletes	or	physically	 active	individuals	 should	
emphasize	 adequate	 carbohydrate	 consumption.	 Carbohydrates	 are	the	major	fuel	
source	for	the	brain	and	nervous	 system.	If	blood	glucose	and	glycogen	 levels	are	low,	
athletes	may	feel	irritable,	 tired,	and	lack	concentration	 that	could	interfere	 with	even	
simple	performance-	 related	tasks.	Carbohydrates	 also	aid	in	fat	metabolism.	 The	body	
requires	 the	presence	 of	carbohydrates	 in	order	to	utilize	fat	for	energy.	Carbohydrates	
provide	 a	“protein	 sparing	effect,”	helping	 athletes	 maintain	 the	muscle	mass	they	
worked	so	hard	to	develop.	 As	previously	 mentioned,	 the	brain	requires	 a	constant	 and	
significant	 amount	of	carbohydrates.	 When	glycogen	 stores	become	depleted	 and	dietary	
carbohydrates	 are	not	consumed,	 the	body	will	turn	to	protein	(from	muscle	tissue)	to	
“make”	carbohydrates	 in	a	process	known	as	gluconeogenesis.	 By	consuming	 a	diet	con-
taining	adequate	 carbohydrates	 and	calories,	 the	body	will	be	less	likely	to	have	to	make	
carbohydrates	at	the	expense	of	muscle	tissue.
	 For	many	athletes	 during	intense	training,	 multiple	 stressors	 can	impair	immunity	
and	these	stressors	 include	lack	of	sleep,	mental	stress,	poor	nutrition,	 weight	loss,	and	
inflammation	 from	exercise.	 Of	these	stressors,	 inadequate	 carbohydrate	 can	contribute	
to	decreased	 immunity	 and	the	increased	 possibility	 of	getting	sick.	Lancaster	 et al.	
(2005)	found	that	taking	30	to	60	grams	of	carbohydrates	 per	hour	during	2.5	hours	of	

Macronutrients: carbohydrates   37
high-	intensity	 cycling	prevented	 the	decline	of	interferon-	 y,	an	important	 virus-	fighting	
substance.	 Other	researchers	 found	improved	 levels	of	various	antibodies	 when	carbohy-
drates	were	taken	during	exercise.	 An	adequate	 intake	of	carbohydrate	 can	also	reduce	
the	release	of	hormone	 cortisol	and	free	up	some	key	amino	acids	to	help	with	immune	
function.
	 Like	many	other	people,	athletes	can	fall	prey	to	the	latest	diet	and/or	nutrition	 fad	
in	their	efforts	to	gain	a	competitive	 edge.	Today	that	fad	is	the	low	carbohydrate	 diet	as	
mentioned	 earlier.	Unfortunately,	 a	low	carbohydrate	 diet	is	just	the	opposite	 of	what	
the	athlete’s	 body	needs	for	optimal	 performance.	 That	is	because	 carbohydrates	 are	
primary	 fuel	for	the	exercising	 muscles	 and	therefore	 essential	 for	supporting	 an	ath-
lete’s	training	 and	performance.	 Thus,	a	well-	balanced	 performance	 diet	is	one	that	pro-
vides	sufficient	 energy,	mostly	in	the	form	of	carbohydrates,	 with	the	balance	of	energy	
as	proteins	and	fats.
Alcohol
Given	the	wide	spectrum	 of	alcohol	use	and	alcohol	abuse,	knowledge	 of	alcohol	con-
sumption	 and	its	relationship	 to	overall	health	is	essential	 to	the	study	of	nutrition.	
Alcohol	is	a	broad	term	for	a	class	of	organic	compounds	 that	have	common	 properties.	
For	example,	 all	alcohols	 have	a	general	formula	 (an	–OH	group	bonded	to	a	carbon	
atom:	C-	OH),	are	quite	volatile,	 and	tend	to	be	soluble	in	water.	There	are	many	dif-
ferent	types	of	alcohol,	 and	most	are	not	safe	to	drink.	For	example,	 methanol,	 which	is	
used	to	make	antifreeze,	 can	be	lethal	if	consumed.	 The	form	of	alcohol	found	in	alco-
holic	beverages	 is	a	molecule	 called	 ethanol,	which	is	the	only	type	of	alcohol	that	can	be	
consumed and has a chemical formula of C2H5OH.	Although	alcohol	is	not	considered	a	
nutrient,	 it	does	provide	7	kcal	per	gram.	An	average	drink,	defined	as	about	5	fl	oz	of	
wine,	12	fl	oz	of	beer,	or	1.5	fl	oz	of	distilled	 spirits,	contains	 about	12	to	14	grams	or	
~0.5	oz	of	alcohol,	 which	contributes	 about	90	kcal.	The	caloric	contents	 of	selected	 alco-
holic	beverages	are	presented	in	 Table	2.5.
Table 2.5	Alcohol	and	energy	content	of	selected	alcoholic	beverages
Beverages Typical serving (fl oz) Alcohol (g) Carbohydrate (g) Energy (kcal)
Beer
Regular 12 13 13 146
Light 12 11 5 99
WineRed 5 14 2.5 106
White 5 14 1.2 100
Dessert	wine 5 23 17 225
Wine	cooler 12 13 20 170
Distilled liquor (gin, rum, vodka, whiskey)
80	proof 1.5 14 – 100
86	proof 1.5 15 – 105
90	proof 1.5 16 – 110
Mixed drinksManhattan 3 26 3 191
Martini 3 27 – 189
Bourbon	and	soda 3 11 – 78
Whiskey	sour	cocktail 3 14 113 144

38		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
Alcohol absorption, transport, and excretion
When	alcohol	is	consumed,	 it	requires	 no	digestion	 and	is	readily	absorbed	 by	simple	
diffusion	 into	the	blood.	Although	 some	alcohol	is	absorbed	 from	the	stomach,	 most	
alcohol	absorption	 (80	percent)	 takes	in	the	small	intestine.	 Because	 alcohol	is	absorbed	
quickly	and	a	relatively	 large	amount	 can	be	absorbed	 directly	from	the	stomach,	 the	
effects	of	alcohol	consumption	 are	almost	immediate,	 especially	 if	it	is	consumed	 on	an	
empty	stomach.	 If	there	is	food	in	the	stomach,	 absorption	 is	slowed	down	because	 the	
stomach	 contents	 dilute	the	alcohol,	 reducing	 the	amount	 in	direct	contact	with	the	
stomach	 wall.	Food	in	the	stomach	 also	slows	absorption	 because	 it	slows	stomach	
emptying	 and	therefore	 decreases	 the	rate	at	which	alcohol	enters	the	small	intestine,	
where	absorption	is	the	most	rapid.
	 Once	 absorbed,	 alcohol	enters	the	bloodstream.	 Due	to	its	small	size	and	being	water	
soluble,	 alcohol	is	rapidly	distributed	 throughout	 all	body	water	compartments.	 Blood 
alcohol concentration 	(BCA)	represents	 the	percentage	 of	the	blood	that	is	concen-
trated	with	alcohol.	 For	example,	 a	person	with	BCA	of	0.1	has	one-	tenth	of	a	gram	of	
alcohol	per	deciliter	 of	blood.	Within	20	minutes	 of	consuming	 one	standard	 drink	(i.e.,	
12	oz	beer,	5	oz	of	wine,	or	1.5	oz	of	distilled	 liquor),	BCA	begins	to	rise	and	peaks	in	
about	45	to	60	minutes	 after	ingestion.	 A	BCA	of	0.02	begins	to	impair	driving.	One	is	
legally	intoxicated	 at	a	BCA	of	0.08	in	the	USA	and	Canada.	 BCA	can	be	influenced	 by	
many	variables,	 including	 the	type	and	quantity	 of	alcoholic	 beverage	 consumed,	 the	
speed	at	which	the	beverage	 is	drunk,	the	food	consumed	 with	it,	the	weight	and	gender	
of	the	consumer,	and	the	activity	of	alcohol	metabolizing	enzymes.
	 Absorbed	 alcohol	travels	to	the	liver	via	portal	circulation.	 In	the	liver,	it	is	given	met-
abolic	priority	and	is	therefore	 broken	down	before	carbohydrate,	 protein,	 and	fat.	
About	90	percent	of	the	alcohol	consumed	 is	metabolized	 by	the	liver,	about	5	percent	is	
excreted	 into	the	urine,	and	the	remainder	 is	eliminated	 via	the	lungs	during	exhala-
tion.	The	alcohol	that	reaches	the	kidney	acts	as	a	diuretic,	 increasing	 water	excretion.	
Therefore,	 excessive	 alcohol	consumption	 can	cause	dehydration.	 The	amount	 lost	via	
lungs	is	reliable	enough	to	be	used	to	estimate	 blood	alcohol	levels	from	a	measure	 of	
breath	alcohol.
Alcohol metabolism
Although	 small	amounts	 of	un-	metabolized	 alcohol	are	eliminated	 from	the	body	by	the	
lungs	and	kidneys,	 the	liver	breaks	down	most	alcohol.	 However,	 there	is	a	limit	to	how	
much	alcohol	the	liver	can	metabolize	 at	any	given	time.	The	average	person	metabo-
lizes	0.5	oz	of	pure	alcohol	per	hour.	For	example,	 it	takes	about	an	hour	to	break	down	
alcohol	in	a	12-oz	can	of	beer.	There	are	two	major	pathways	 for	alcohol	metabolism:	
alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) pathway  located in the cytosol of the cell and the micro -
somal ethanol- oxidizing system 	(MEOS)	located	in	small	vesicles	called	microsomes	 that	
form	in	the	cell	when	they	split	off	from	the	smooth	endoplasmic	reticulum.
Alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) pathway
During	light	to	moderate	 drinking,	 most	of	the	alcohol	is	broken	down	via	the	ADH	
pathway.	 Although	 the	liver	cells	have	the	highest	levels	of	ADH	activity,	this	enzyme	has	
also	been	found	in	all	parts	of	the	intestinal	 tract	with	the	greatest	 amounts	 in	the	
stomach.	 In	fact,	the	stomach	 begins	to	break	down	alcohol	with	its	ADH	and	this	action	
can	reduce	the	amount	of	alcohol	entering	 the	body	by	about	20	percent.	 ADH	converts	
alcohol	into	acetaldehyde.	 Acetaldehyde	 is	a	toxic	compound	 that	is	further	degraded	

Macronutrients: carbohydrates 		39
by	the	mitochondrial	 enzyme	aldehyde	 dehydrogenase	 to	a	two-	carbon	molecule	 called	
acetate	that	forms	acetyl-	CoA.	Although	 these	processes	 produce	 ATP,	they	also	slow	the	
Krebs	cycle,	preventing	 acetyl-	CoA	from	being	further	degraded.	 Instead,	the	acetyl-	CoA	
generated	 by	alcohol	breakdown,	 as	well	as	acetyl-	CoA	from	carbohydrate	 and	fat	metab-
olism,	is	used	to	synthesize	fatty	acids	that	accumulate	in	the	liver.
Microsomal ethanol- oxidizing system
Alcohol	can	also	be	metabolized	 in	the	liver	by	a	second	pathway	 called	the	microsomal	
ethanol-	oxidizing	 system	(MEOS).	 This	system	is	particularly	 important	 when	greater	
amounts	 of	alcohol	are	consumed.	 It	helps	prevent	alcohol	from	reaching	 dangerously	
high	levels	in	the	blood.	The	MEOS	converts	 alcohol	into	acetaldehyde,	 which	is	then	
broken	down	by	aldehyde	 dehydrogenase	 in	the	mitochondria.	 In	addition	 to	forming	
acetaldehyde,	 reactive	 oxygen	molecules	 are	generated,	 which	can	contribute	 to	liver	
disease.	The	components	 of	this	secondary	 pathway	 are	up-	regulated	 in	response	 to	fre-
quent	intoxication.	 This	is	why	some	heavy	drinkers	 develop	a	tolerance	 to	alcohol.	 The	
MEOS	also	metabolizes	 other	drugs;	thus,	as	activity	increases	 in	response	 to	high	
alcohol	intake,	the	metabolism	of	other	drugs	may	be	altered.
	 Metabolism	 of	alcohol	is	dependent	 on	numerous	 factors,	such	as	gender,	race,	size,	
physical	condition,	 what	is	eaten,	and	the	alcohol	content	of	the	beverage.	 The	ability	to	
produce	 the	enzyme	 ADH	is	the	key	to	alcohol	metabolism,	 as	it	acts	on	about	90	
percent	of	the	dose	consumed.	 Women	absorb	and	metabolize	 alcohol	differently	 than	
men.	A	woman	cannot	metabolize	 large	amounts	 of	alcohol	in	the	cells	lining	her	
stomach	 because	of	low	activity	of	ADH.	While	men	can	metabolize	 about	30	percent	of	
the	ingested	 alcohol	by	ADH	of	the	stomach	 before	it	reaches	the	blood,	women	metab-
olize	only	10	percent	 of	ingested	 alcohol	in	this	manner.	 Women	 also	have	less	body	
water	in	which	to	dilute	the	alcohol	than	men.	So,	when	a	man	and	a	woman	of	similar	
size	drink	equal	amounts	 of	alcohol,	 a	larger	proportion	 of	the	alcohol	reaches	and	
remains	 in	the	woman’s	 bloodstream.	 Overall,	 women	can	develop	 alcohol-	related	
diseases	 such	as	cirrhosis	 of	the	liver	more	rapidly	than	men	with	the	same	alcohol-	
consumption	habits.
Benefits of moderate alcohol use
The	idea	of	moderate	 alcohol	use	may	have	originated	 from	the	French	paradox	 in	the	
1980s	where	French	scientists	 revealed	 low	death	rates	from	coronary	 heart	disease	in	
France	despite	a	high	prevalence	 of	smoking	 and	high	intake	of	dietary	cholesterol	 and	
saturated	 fat.	This	paradoxical	 observation	 was	initially	attributed	 to	the	frequent	 con-
sumption	 of	red	wine	and	it	has	been	revealed	 by	French	scientists	 that	consumption	 of	
alcohol	at	the	level	of	intake	in	France	(i.e.,	20	to	30	g	per	day)	could	reduce	the	risk	of	
coronary	 heart	disease	by	approximately	 40	percent.	 To	date,	the	relationship	 between	
moderate	 alcohol	consumption	 and	reduced	 risks	of	cardiovascular	 disease	has	been	
confirmed	 by	a	vast	amount	of	epidemiological	 studies.	Given	these	studies,	researchers	
have	estimated	 that	adults	who	consume	 an	average	of	one	to	two	alcoholic	 drinks	daily	
have	a	40	to	70	percent	 lower	risk	of	cardiovascular	 disease	than	adults	who	do	not	
consume	 alcohol	or	have	a	heavy	alcohol	intake	(O’Keefe	 et al.	2007).	 Moderate alcohol 
use	is	defined	as	no	more	than	two	standard	 drinks	per	day	for	women	and	people	aged	
over	65,	and	no	more	than	three	drinks	per	day	for	men.	As	mentioned	 earlier,	a	
standard	 drink	is	defined	as	any	drink	that	contains	 0.5	fl	oz	or	14	grams	of	pure	alcohol.	
This	is	equivalent	to	12	 oz	of	beer,	5	 oz	of	wine,	and	1.5	 oz	of	80	proof	liquor.

40		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
	 You	may	wonder	how	alcohol	lowers	a	person’s	 risk	of	cardiovascular	 disease.	Recall	that	
cardiovascular	 disease	results	from	the	formation	 of	plaque	in	the	lining	of	the	arteries	and	
HDLs	help	protect	against	heart	disease.	Studies	show	that	moderate	 daily	intake	of	alcohol	
increases 	HDLs	and	may	therefore 	offer	some	protection 	from	cardiovascular 	disease	
(Rimm	 et al.	1999).	There	is	also	evidence	 that	alcohol	decreases	 levels	of	fibrinogen	 that	
promotes	 blood	clot	formation	 and	increases	 levels	of	an	enzyme	that	dissolves	 blood	clots.	
Lower	levels	of	fibrinogen	 reduce	blood	clots	that	can	block	blood	flow	to	the	heart,	result-
ing	in	a	heart	attack.	In	addition	to	protecting 	cardiovascular 	health,	moderate 	alcohol	use	
may	help	guard	against	other	age-	related	chronic	 diseases	 such	as	type	2	diabetes,	
gallstones,	and	dementia,	although	these	potential	benefits	require	further	study.
Alcohol and athletic performance
Athletes	 use	alcohol	to	enhance	 performance	 because	 of	its	psychological	 and	physio-
logical	effects.	Alcohol	may	be	viewed	as	a	narcotic,	a	depressant, 	that	affects	the	brain.	As	
a	depressant	 of	brain	function,	 alcohol	would	not	be	advocated	 as	a	means	to	improve	
sports	performance. 	However, 	although 	classified 	as	a	depressant, 	some	of	alcohol’s 	effects	
are	euphoric. 	Alcohol	is	thought	to	bind	with	receptors 	in	the	brain	that	may	cause	the	
release	of	dopamine,	 a	neurotransmitter	 associated	 with	the	pleasure	 center	of	the	brain	
and	as	a	result	normal	inhibitory	 processes	 in	the	brain	may	be	suppressed.	 For	this	reason,	
some	have	argued	that	consuming	 alcohol	before	a	competition	 reduces	 tension	and	
anxiety,	enhances 	self-	confidence, 	and	promotes 	aggressiveness, 	and	may	also	produce	
anti-	tremor	effects	that	could	potentially	 enhance	 performance	 in	sports	such	as	rifle	and	
pistol	shooting	 and	archery.	Such	an	anxiolytic	 claim,	however,	 has	not	been	substantiated 	
by	research. 	In	fact,	most	research	indicates 	that	alcohol	precipitates 	undesirable 	side	
effects	that	impair	sports	performance	 requiring	 balance,	 eye–hand	 coordination,	 reaction	
time,	and	an	overall	need	to	process	information	rapidly	(ACSM	Position	Stand	1982).
	 In	the	physiological	 realm,	ingesting	 1	g	of	alcohol	per	kilogram	 of	body	mass	in	one	
hour	has	been	found	to	reduce	myocardial	 contractility.	 In	terms	of	metabolism,	 alcohol	
blunts	the	liver’s	ability	to	synthesize	 glucose	from	non-	carbohydrate	 sources	via	gluco-
neogenesis.	 Each	of	these	effects	impairs	performance	 in	high-	intensity	 aerobic	activities	
that	rely	heavily	on	cardiovascular	 capacity	 and	energy	from	carbohydrate	 degradation.	
Although	 alcohol	contains	 a	relatively	 high	number	 of	calories	and	its	metabolic	 path-
ways	in	the	body	are	short,	available	 evidence	 suggests	 that	it	is	not	utilized	to	any	signi-
ficant	extent	during	exercise	 (El-	Sayed	 et al.	2005).	Alcohol	 ingestion	 also	increases	
urine	output	by	decreasing	 the	release	of	the	anti-	diuretic	 hormone.	 This	effect	could	
lead	to	dehydration	 and	impair	temperature	 regulation	 during	exercise	 in	a	warm/hot	
environment.	 Starting	 a	prolonged	 endurance	 event	in	a	dehydrated	 state	could	cer-
tainly	impair	performance.	 Consuming	 alcohol	post	competition	 or	training	 may	delay	
the	recovery	 process.	 Acting	as	a	potent	diuretic	agent,	alcohol	consumption	 can	hinder	
rehydration	 in	recovery.	 Recent	studies	also	demonstrate	 that	ingesting	 alcohol	at	1	to	
1.5	g/kg	can	impair	protein	synthesis	 (Parr	 et al.	2014)	and	aggravates	 the	decline	in	
muscle	performance	following	strenuous	exercise	(Barnes	 et al.	2010).
Health problems of alcohol abuse
Despite	the	few	benefits	 of	regular,	 moderate	 alcohol	use,	the	risks	of	abuse	are	more	
numerous	 and	harmful.	 When	consumed	 in	excess,	alcohol	is	clearly	hazardous	 to	
health.	The	consumption	 of	alcohol	has	short-	term	effects	that	interfere	 with	organ	
function	 for	several	hours	following	 ingestion.	 It	also	has	long-	term	effects	that	result	
from	chronic	alcohol	consumption.

Macronutrients: carbohydrates 		41
Short- term effects
The	liver	can	metabolize	 about	0.5	oz	of	alcohol	per	hour.	This	is	the	amount	of	alcohol	
in	a	standard	 drink.	When	alcohol	intake	exceeds	 the	ability	of	the	liver	to	break	it	
down,	the	excess	accumulates	 in	the	blood	until	the	liver	enzymes	 can	metabolize	 it.	
The	circulating	 alcohol	affects	the	brain,	resulting	 in	impaired	 mental	and	physical	
abilities.	 In	the	brain,	alcohol	acts	as	a	depressant,	 slowing	neurological	 activities.	 First,	
it	affects	reasoning,	 but,	if	drinking	 continues,	 this	can	impair	vision	and	speech	centers	
of	the	brain.	Next,	skeletal	muscle	control	becomes	 impaired,	 causing	lack	of	balance	
and	coordination.	 Finally,	if	alcohol	consumption	 continues,	 it	will	lead	to	alcohol	pois-
oning	that	can	slow	breathing,	 heart	rate,	loss	of	consciousness,	 choking,	 coma,	and	
even	death.
Long- term effects
One	of	the	complications	 of	long-	term	excessive	 alcohol	consumption	 is	malnutrition. 	
Alcoholic	 beverages	 contribute	 energy	but	few	nutrients.	 As	the	percentage	 of	kcal	
from	alcohol	increases,	 the	risk	of	nutrient	 deficiencies	 rises.	When	intake	of	alcohol	
exceeds	 30	percent	 of	the	total	caloric	intake,	consumption	 of	protein	 and	other	
essential	 nutrients	 such	as	vitamins	 A	and	C	may	fall	below	the	recommended 	
amounts.	 In	addition	 to	decreasing	 nutrient	 intake,	alcohol	can	contribute	 to	a	sec-
ondary	malnutrition	 by	interfering	 with	nutrient	 absorption,	 even	when	adequate 	
amounts	 of	nutrients	 are	consumed.	 Alcohol	 causes	inflammation	 of	the	stomach, 	
pancreas,	 and	intestine,	 which	impairs	 the	digestion	 of	food	and	the	absorption	 of	
nutrients 	into	the	blood.	Alcohol	consumption 	may	also	be	related	to	obesity.	Calories	
consumed	 as	alcohol	are	more	likely	to	be	deposited	 as	fat	in	the	abdominal	 region	
and	excess	abdominal	 fat	increases	 the	risk	of	high	blood	pressure,	 heart	disease,	and	
diabetes.	 An	analysis	 of	alcohol	consumption	 patterns	 and	body	weight	showed	that	
individuals	 who	consumed	 a	small	amount	 of	alcohol	frequently	 (one	drink	per	day	
three	to	seven	days	per	week)	had	the	lowest	BMI,	while	those	who	consumed	 large	
amounts	infrequently	had	the	highest	BMI	(Breslow	and	Smothers	2005).
	 Long-	 term	alcohol	abuse	causes	fatty	liver,	inflammation	 of	the	liver,	and	eventually 	
cirrhosis.	 Cirrhosis 	is	a	progressive 	disease	characterized 	by	fatty	infiltration 	of	the	
liver.	The	disease	usually	progresses	 in	several	phases.	The	first	phase	is	fatty	liver,	a	
condition	 that	occurs	when	alcohol	consumption	 increases	 the	synthesis	 and	deposi-
tion	of	fat	in	the	liver.	The	second	phase,	alcoholic	 hepatitis,	 is	an	inflammation	 of	
the	liver.	Both	conditions	 are	reversible	 if	alcohol	consumption	 is	stopped	 and	good	
nutritional	 and	health	practices	 are	followed.	 If	alcohol	abuse	continues,	 cirrhosis	 may	
develop.	 This	is	an	irreversible	 condition	 in	which	fibrous	deposits	 scar	the	liver	and	
interfere	 with	its	function.	 Because	 the	liver	is	the	primary	 site	of	many	metabolic 	
reactions,	cirrhosis	is	often	fatal.
	 Heavy	 drinking	 is	also	associated	 with	certain	types	of	cancer.	Oral,	esophageal, 	
laryngeal, 	and	pharyngeal 	cancers	are	more	common 	in	alcohol	users	than	in	non-	
alcohol	users.	Smokers	 who	are	also	heavy	drinkers	 are	at	a	significantly	 higher	risk	of	
developing 	these	cancers.	Alcohol	is	also	a	major	cause	of	liver	cancer.	By	altering	the	
liver’s	ability	to	metabolize	 some	cancer-	promoting	 substances	 such	as	carcinogens 	
into	harmless	 compounds	 or	to	disable	certain	existing	 carcinogens,	 alcohol’s	 effect	
may	influence 	not	only	liver	cancer	but	other	cancers	as	well.	Other	cancers	that	have	
been	linked	to	alcohol	 overuse	 include	 breast,	colon,	and	pancreatic	 cancers,	
although	more	studies	are	needed	to	reveal	the	underlying	causes.

42		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
Summary
•	 Carbohydrates	 are	chemical	 compounds	 that	contain	 carbon,	 hydrogen,	 and	
oxygen,	with	hydrogen	 and	oxygen	in	the	ratio	of	2:1.	Simple	carbohydrates	 include	
monosaccharides	 and	disaccharides,	 while	complex	 carbohydrates	 include	oligosac-
charides	and	polysaccharides.
•	 The	 common	 monosaccharides	 in	foods	are	glucose,	 fructose,	 and	galactose.	 Once	
they	are	absorbed	 from	the	small	intestine	 and	delivered	 to	the	liver,	much	of	the	
fructose	and	galactose	is	converted	into	glucose.
•	 The	 major	disaccharides	 are	sucrose	(glucose	+	fructose),	 maltose	(glucose	+	glucose), 	
and	lactose	(glucose	 +	galactose).	 When	digested,	 they	yield	their	component 	
monosaccharides.
•	 Polysaccharides	 include	glycogen	 in	animals	and	starch	and	fiber	in	plants.	Glyco-
gen	and	starch	can	be	broken	down	by	digestive	 enzymes,	 releasing	 the	glucose	
units.	Fiber	cannot	be	digested	 by	enzymes	 and	therefore	 is	not	absorbed	 by	the	
body.	Fiber	benefits	 gastrointestinal	 function	 by	increasing	 the	ease	and	rate	at	
which	materials	move	through	the	gastrointestinal	tract.
•	 The	 foods	that	yield	the	highest	percentage	 of	calories	from	carbohydrates	 are	table	
sugar,	honey,	jam,	jelly,	and	fruits.	Other	foods	rich	in	carbohydrates	 include	corn-
flakes,	rice,	bread,	and	noodles.	 Foods	with	moderate	 amounts	 of	carbohydrate	 calo-
ries	are	peas,	broccoli,	 oatmeal,	 dry	beans	and	other	legumes,	 cream	pies,	French	
fries,	and	fat-	 free	milk.
•	 Carbohydrates	 provide	a	major	source	of	energy,	but	are	stored	in	limited	quantity	
in	the	liver	and	muscles.	 They	are	the	sole	source	of	energy	for	most	parts	of	the	
brain	and	central	nervous	system.	Carbohydrates	 are	also	needed	for	burning	 fat	as	
well	as	to	protect	against	the	breakdown	of	body	protein.
•	 Blood	 glucose	homeostasis	 is	regulated	 primarily	 by	two	hormones:	 insulin,	which	
moves	glucose	from	the	blood	to	the	cells,	and	glucagon,	 which	brings	glucose	out	
of	storage	when	necessary.	 When	blood	glucose	regulation	 falls,	either	of	two	con-
ditions	may	result:	diabetes	or	hypoglycemia.
•	 A	strong	tie	exists	between	 carbohydrates	 and	chronic	diseases.	 There	is	evidence	
that	a	high	sugar	intake	can	adversely	 affect	blood	glucose	 and	insulin	levels,	
thereby	increasing	 the	risk	of	diabetes	 and	heart	disease.	However,	 diets	high	in	
wholegrains	 and	fibers	may	reduce	blood	cholesterol	 levels	and	thus	protect	against	
these	chronic	disorders.
•	 Alcohol	 is	not	an	essential	 nutrient,	 but	does	supply	calories	to	the	body.	It	is	mainly	
metabolized	 in	the	liver	and	metabolism	 largely	depends	 on	alcohol	dehydrogenase.	
Factors	such	as	gender,	 race,	body	size,	and	body	composition	 determine	 how	a	
person	reacts	to	alcohol.
•	 Excessive	 alcohol	use	leads	to	cirrhosis	 of	the	liver	and	increased	 risks	for	develop-
ing	heart	disease,	hypertension,	 and	diabetes.	 Alcohol	abuse	is	also	associated	 with	
an	increased	 risk	of	certain	types	of	cancer,	 especially	 those	of	the	mouth,	
esophagus,	colon,	liver,	and	breast.
Case study: building a healthy base and reducing risk factors
Melissa’s	 mother	died	of	a	heart	attack	at	the	age	of	55.	Melissa	is	worried	about	her	
own	health	and	heart	disease	risk.	She	wants	to	eat	a	healthy	diet	and	tries	to	follow	the	
dietary	guidelines.	 She	made	an	appointment	 with	her	physician.	 She	filled	out	a	ques-
tionnaire	 about	her	medical	 history	and	lifestyle,	 met	with	a	dietician	 to	evaluate	 her	
diet,	and	had	blood	drawn	for	blood	glucose	and	lipid	analysis.

Macronutrients: carbohydrates 		43
Review questions
	1	 Describe	 the	structure	 of	a	monosaccharide	 and	name	the	three	monosaccharides	
that	are	important	in	nutrition.
	2	 Explain	 the	differences	 between	 glucose	 and	fructose	 in	terms	of	how	they	are	
absorbed.	Why	does	fructose	have	a	low	glycemic	index?
	3	 Name	 the	three	disaccharides	 found	in	foods	and	their	component 	
monosaccharides.
	4	 Define	 the	terms	“glucose,”	 “glycogen,”	 “glycogenolysis,”	 “glycogenesis,”	 and	“glycemic 	
index.”
	5	 Discuss	 structural	 and	functional	 differences	 between	 amylose	and	amylopectin.	 Why	
is	amylose	referred	to	as	“resistant	starch?”
	6	 How	does	the	body	maintain	 its	blood	glucose	concentration?	 What	can	happen	
when	blood	glucose	concentration	rises	too	high	or	falls	too	low?
	7	 What	health	benefits	are	associated	 with	a	diet	high	in	unrefined	 carbohydrates	 such	
as	fiber?
	8	 Discuss	the	energetic	roles	carbohydrates	play	in	the	body.
	9	 Why	is	alcohol	considered	ergogenic?
10	 Discuss	both	the	short-	and	long-	 term	consequences	of	alcohol	abuse.	 Melissa’s	 diet	analysis	indicates	 that	she	consumes	 about	2000	kcal,	20	percent	 of	
which	come	from	protein,	 41	percent	 from	fat,	and	39	percent	 from	carbohydrates.	
The	percentages	 of	energy	from	saturated	 fat	and	unsaturated	 fat	are	17	percent	and	7	
percent,	 respectively.	 Her	fiber	intake	is	19	grams	per	day	and	her	cholesterol	 intake	is	
380	mg	per	day.
	 The	following	table	provides	the	results	of	her	medical	history	and	blood	analysis.
Sex Female
Age 35
Family history Mother	had	heart	attack	at	age	55
Height/weight	 64	in/175	lb
Blood	pressure 120/70	mmHg
Smoking No
Activity level Sedentary
Blood	glucose	(fasting) 97	mg/100	ml
Blood	triglycerides 185	mg/100	ml
Total	cholesterol 210	mg/100	ml
LDL	cholesterol 160	mg/100	ml
HDL	cholesterol 34	mg/100	ml
Questions
•	 What	is	your	overall	impression	of	Melissa’s	diet?
•	 How	 many	more	grams	of	carbohydrates	 would	Melissa	need	to	meet	the	recom-
mendation	of	45	to	65	percent	of	energy	from	carbohydrates?
•	 What	risk	factors	does	Melissa	have	for	developing	cardiovascular	disease?
•	 What	dietary	and	lifestyle	changes	would	you	recommend	to	reduce	her	risks?

44		 Macronutrients: carbohydrates
Suggested reading
	1	 Burke	 LM,	Collier	GR,	Hargreaves	 M	(1998)	Glycemic	 index	–	a	new	tool	in	sport	
nutrition?	 International Journal of Sports Nutrition ,	8:	401–415.
 The glycemic index provides a way to rank foods rich in carbohydrates according to the glucose 
response following their intake. This review article discusses specifically how the concept of the 
glycemic index may be applied to training and sports competitions.
	2	 Coyle	 EF	(2000)	Physical	 activity	as	a	metabolic	 stressor.	 American Journal of Clinical 
Nutrition,	72(2	Suppl):	512S–5120S.
 Physical activity provides stimuli that promote specific and varied adaptations according to the 
type, intensity, and duration of the exercise performed. This article talks about how diet or 
supplementation can further enhance the body’s responses and adaptations to these positive 
stimuli.
	3	 Jenkins	 DJ,	Kendall	CW,	Augustin	 LS,	Franceschi	 S,	Hamidi	M,	Marchie	 A,	Jenkins	
AL,	Axelsen	 M	(2002)	Glycemic	 index:	overview	 of	implications	 in	health	and	
disease.	 American Journal of Clinical Nutrition ,	76:	266S–2773S.
 This article provides a solid review of literature on the glycemic index and its relevance to those 
chronic Western diseases associated with central obesity and insulin resistance. The authors 
believe that the glycemic index concept is an extension of the fiber hypothesis, suggesting that 
fiber consumption reduces the rate of nutrient influx from the gut.
Glossary
Alcohol dehydrogenase pathway 	a	pathway	 that	degrades	 most	of	the	alcohol	 in	
the	body.
Amylase	an	enzyme	that	breaks	down	starch	during	digestion.
Amylopectin 	a	highly	branched	 chain	of	glucose	units	that	makes	up	the	remaining	 80	
percent	of	the	digestible	starches.
Amylose	a	long,	straight	chain	of	glucose	units	that	makes	up	about	20	percent	of	the	
digestible	starches.
Blood alcohol concentration 	a	measure	 that	represents	 the	percentage	 of	the	blood	
that	is	concentrated	with	alcohol.
Cellulose 	a	form	of	polysaccharide	 found	in	plants	and	cannot	be	digested	 by	human	
enzymes.
Cirrhosis 	a	progressive	disease	characterized	by	fatty	infiltration	of	the	liver.
Disaccharides 	the	combination	 of	two	monosaccharides	 and	also	referred	 to	as	double	
sugar.
Ethanol	the	only	type	of	alcohol	that	can	be	consumed.
Fermentation 	A	process	during	which	the	yeast	cells	convert	sugars	into	alcohol	or	
ethanol	and	carbon	dioxide.
Fiber	a	type	of	carbohydrate	that	the	body	cannot	digest.
Fructose 	also	called	fruit	sugar	and	a	common	monosaccharide.
Galactose 	a	part	of	lactose,	the	disaccharide	in	milk.
Glucagon 	a	hormone	from	the	pancreas	that	brings	glucose	out	of	storage.
Gluconeogenesis 	the	process	of	producing	 new	glucose	using	non-	glucose	molecules	
such	as	amino	acids.
Glucose	the	simplest	 form	of	carbohydrate	 found	primarily	 in	the	blood	and	used	by	
the	cells	for	energy.
Glycemic index  a	numerical	 system	of	measuring	 how	quickly	and	how	high	ingesting	
a	carbohydrate	food	triggers	a	rise	in	circulating	blood	glucose.
Glycogen 	a	stored	form	of	carbohydrate	found	primarily	in	the	muscles	and	liver.

Macronutrients: carbohydrates 		45
Insoluble fiber 	a	type	of	fiber	that	does	not	dissolve	in	water	and	cannot	be	broken	
down	by	bacteria	in	the	large	intestine.
Insulin	a	hormone	from	the	pancreas	that	moves	glucose	from	the	blood	to	the	cells.
Lactase	an	enzyme	that	splits	lactose	into	glucose	and	galactose	during	digestion.
Lactose	a	disaccharide	 consisting	 of	glucose	and	galactose	 and	also	referred	 to	as	milk	
sugar.
Maltose	a	disaccharide	 consisting	 of	two	molecules	 of	glucose	and	also	referred	 to	as	
malt	sugar.
Microsomal ethanol- oxidizing system 	a	pathway	that	metabolizes	alcohol	in	the	body.
Moderate alcohol use 	no	more	than	two	standard	 drinks	per	day	for	women	and	
people	over	the	age	of	65,	and	no	more	than	three	drinks	per	day	for	men.
Monosaccharides 	the	basic	unit	of	carbohydrate	with	a	formula	of	C6H12O6.
Oligosacchardies 	a	saccharide	 polymer	 containing	 a	small	number	 (typically	 between	
three	to	ten)	of	component	sugars.
Polysacchardies 	complex	carbohydrates	containing	many	sugar	units	linked	together.
Soluble fiber 	a	type	of	fiber	that	can	form	viscous	solutions	 when	placed	in	water	and	
can	be	digested	by	bacteria	in	the	large	intestine.
Starch	a	long,	branched	 or	unbranched	 chain	of	hundreds	 or	thousands	 of	glucose	
molecules	linked	together.
Sucrose	a	disaccharide	 consisting	 of	glucose	and	fructose	 and	also	referred	 to	as	cane	
sugar	or	table	sugar.
Type 1 diabetes 	a	condition	in	which	the	pancreas	fails	to	make	insulin.
Type 2 diabetes 	a	condition	in	which	cells	fail	to	respond	to	insulin.

3 Macronutrients
Lipids
Contents
Key terms 46
Introduction 47
Common properties and specific types 47
•	 Fatty	acids	 47
•	 Triglycerides	 50
•	 Phospholipids	 50
•	 Sterols	 50
Transporting	lipids	in	the	body	 51
•	 Transport	from	the	small	intestine	 52
•	 Transport	from	the	liver	to	the	body	cells	 52
Food	sources	of	lipids	 52
Major	roles	of	lipids	in	the	body	 55
•	 Energy	source	and	reserve	 56
•	 Insulation	and	protection	 56
•	 Components	of	cell	membrane	 56
Health	implications	of	lipids	 57
•	 Omega-	 3	fatty	acids	 57
•	 Trans	fat	 58
•	 Obesity:	excessive	adiposity	 58
•	 Cancer	 59
Summary	 59
Case	study	 60
Review	questions	 61
Suggested	reading	 61
Glossary	 61
Key terms
•	 Atherosclerosis	 •	 Chylomicron
•	 Fatty	acids	 •	 High-	density	lipoprotein
•	 Lipids	 •	 Lipogenesis

Macronutrients: lipids   47
•	 Lipolysis	 •	 Lipoprotein
•	 Low-	density	lipoprotein	 •	 Monounsaturated	fatty	acids
•	 Phospholipids	 •	 Polyunsaturated	fatty	acids
•	 Saturated	fatty	acids	 •	 Sterols
•	 Trans-	 fatty	acids	 •	 Triglycerides
•	 Unsaturated	fatty	acids	 •	 Very	low-	 density	lipoprotein
Introduction
Lipids	are	required	 for	every	physiological	 system	in	the	body	and	are	thus	essential	 nutri-
ents.	For	many	people	the	thought	of	fatty	foods	invokes	images	of	unhealthy 	living.	We	
often	shop	for	“fat-	free”	foods	and	try	to	avoid	fats	altogether.	 Food	manufacturers	 have	
even	developed	 “fat	substitutes”	 to	replace	the	fats	normally	 found	in	food.	However, 	
although	 diets	high	in	fat	can	lead	to	health	complications	 such	as	obesity	and	heart	
disease,	getting	enough	of	the	right	types	of	fat	is	just	as	essential	for	optimal	health.
	 What	 are	the	right	types	of	fat?	Should	we	put	butter	or	margarine	 on	our	toast?	
Should	we	use	canola	or	corn	oil	in	cooking?	 There	are	hundreds	 of	oils,	butters,	and	
margarines	 from	which	to	choose.	Some	are	solid,	some	are	liquid,	some	come	from	
plants,	and	some	come	from	animals.	 Some	are	said	to	increase	 your	risk	of	heart	disease	
while	others	claim	to	do	the	opposite.	 Recommendations	 for	a	healthy	diet	suggest	that	
we	consume	 a	diet	moderate	 in	fat	and	low	in	saturated	 fat,	trans	fat,	and	cholesterol.	 In	
order	to	follow	these	guidelines,	 we	must	know	how	much	and	what	types	of	fats	are	in	
the	foods	we	choose.
Common properties and specific types
Lipid	is	the	chemical	 term	for	what	is	commonly	 known	as	fats	and	oils.	Lipids	are	a	
diverse	group	of	chemical	 compounds.	 They	share	one	main	characteristic:	 they	do	not	
readily	dissolve	in	water.	For	example,	 think	of	an	oil-	and-vinegar	 salad	dressing.	 The	oil	
is	not	soluble	in	the	water-	based	vinegar;	the	two	separate	 into	distinct	layers,	with	oil	on	
top	and	vinegar	on	the	bottom.	 Lipids	in	the	diet	and	in	our	bodies	provide	a	concen-
trated	source	of	energy.	Recall	in	Chapter 	1 	that	each	gram	of	fat	provides	 9	kcal	
compared	 with	only	4	kcal	per	gram	from	carbohydrate	 and	protein.	 The	major	lipid	
classes	include	 fatty acids ,	triglycerides ,	phospholipids ,	and	 sterols.	The	triglycerides	
predominate	both	in	foods	and	in	the	body.
Fatty acids
In	the	body	and	in	foods,	fatty	acids	are	found	in	the	main	form	of	lipids,	triglycerides.	A	
fatty	acid	is	basically	 a	long	chain	of	carbons	bonded	together	 and	flanked	by	hydrogen	
(Figure	3.1).	At 	one	end	of	the	molecule	 is	an	acid	group	(COOH).	 At	the	other	end,	
which	is	often	referred	 to	as	the	omega	end,	is	a	methyl	group	(CH3).	Most	naturally	
occurring	 fatty	acids	contain	even	numbers	 of	carbon	in	their	chains,	usually	12	to	22,	
although	 some	may	be	as	short	as	4	or	as	long	as	26	carbons.	 Fatty	acids	with	fewer	than	
8	carbons	are	called	short-	chain	fatty	acids;	those	with	8	to	12	carbons	are	medium-	 chain	
fatty	acids;	and	those	with	more	than	12	carbons	 are	long-	chain	fatty	acids.	The	long-	
chain	(12	to	24	carbons)	 fatty	acids	are	most	common	 in	the	diet	and	are	found	prim-
arily	in	meat,	fish,	and	vegetable	 oils,	while	short-	or	medium-	 chain	(6	to	10	carbons)	
fatty	acids	occur	mainly	in	dairy	products.	 The	chain	length	of	a	fatty	acid	affects	its	
chemical	 properties	 and	physiological	 functions.	 In	general,	 fatty	acids	with	a	shorter	
chain	length	tend	to	be	liquid	at	room	temperature,	less	stable,	and	more	water	soluble.

48		 Macronutrients: lipids
	 Another	 way	in	which	fatty	acids	differ	is	by	the	types	of	chemical	 bonds	between	 the	
carbon	atoms	(Figure 	3.1). 	These	carbon–carbon	 bonds	may	either	be	single	bonds	or	
double	bonds.	If	a	fatty	acid	contains	 all	single	carbon–carbon	 bonds,	it	is	saturated fatty 
acid.	The	most	common	 saturated	 fatty	acids	are	palmitic	 acid,	which	has	16	carbons,	
and	stearic	acid,	which	has	18	carbons.	 These	are	found	most	often	in	animal	foods	such	
as	meat	and	dairy	products.	 Vegetable	 sources	of	saturated	 fatty	acids	include	palm	oil,	
palm	kernel	oil,	and	coconut	 oil.	These	are	often	called	tropical	oils	because	 they	are	
found	in	plants	common	 in	tropical	climates.	 Most	fats	with	long-	chain	saturated	 fatty	
acids	are	solid	at	room	temperature.
	 Fatty	acids	containing	 one	or	more	double	bonds	are	unsaturated fatty acids 	(Figure	
3.1).	In	other	words,	an	unsaturated	 fatty	acid	contains	 some	carbons	that	are	not	satur-
ated	with	hydrogen.	 More	specifically,	 fatty	acids	with	one	double	bond	are	monounsatu-
rated fatty acids ;	those	with	two	or	more	double	bonds	are	polyunsaturated fatty acids. 6DWXUDWHGIDWW\DFLGSDOPLWLFDFLG D
+
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
+&
++22
&
0RQRXQVDWXUDWHGIDWW\DFLGROHLFDFLGRPHJD E
3RO\XQVDWXUDWHGIDWW\DFLGDOSKDOLQROHQLFDFLGRPHJD G3RO\XQVDWXUDWHGIDWW\DFLGOLQROHLFDFLGRPHJD F+22
&+
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
+
'RXEOHERQG&&++ +
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
+
&
++
&
++
&+
&+
&
++
&+
&+
&&&+
&
++
&++ +
&
++
&+
&+
&
++
&
++
+22
&
++ ++
'RXEOHERQGV+22
&+
&+
&
++++ ++ +&&+++
&
+++
&&+
&++
&&+
&+
&+
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
&
++
'RXEOHERQGV
Figure 3.1 		Chemical	 structure	 of	saturated,	 monounsaturated,	 and	polyunsaturated	 fatty	
acids.	Each	contains	 18	carbons,	 but	they	differ	from	each	other	in	the	number	
and	location	of	double	bonds

Macronutrients: lipids 		49
In	our	diet,	the	most	common	 monounsaturated	 fatty	acid	is	oleic	acid,	which	is	pre-
valent	in	olive	and	canola	oils.	The	most	common	 polyunsaturated	 fatty	acid	is	linoleic	
acid,	found	in	corn,	safflower,	 and	soybean	 oils.	Unsaturated	 fatty	acids	melt	at	cooler	
temperatures	 than	saturated	 fatty	acids	of	the	same	chain	length.	Therefore,	 the	more	
unsaturated	 bonds	a	fatty	acid	contains,	 the	more	likely	it	is	to	be	liquid	at	room	temper-
ature.	There	are	different	 categories	 of	unsaturated	 fatty	acids,	depending	 on	the	loca-
tion	of	the	first	double	bond	in	the	chain.	As	shown	in	Figure	3.1,	if	the	first	double	
bond	occurs	between	 the	third	and	fourth	carbons,	 counting	 from	the	omega	end	of	the	
chain,	the	fat	is	said	to	be	an	omega-	3	(ω-3)	fatty	acid.	Alpha-	linolenic	 acid,	found	in	
vegetable	 oils,	and	eicosapentaenoic	 acid	(EPA)	and	docosahexaenoic	 acid	(DHA),	
found	in	fish	oil,	are	omega-	3	fatty	acids.	If	the	first	double	bond	occurs	between	 the	
sixth	and	seventh	carbons	from	the	omega	end,	the	fatty	acid	is	called	an	omega-	6	(ω-6)	
fatty	acid.	Linoleic	 acid,	found	in	corn	and	safflower	 oils,	is	the	major	omega-	6	fatty	acid	
in	the	North	American	 diet.	Our	bodies	cannot	synthesize	 double	bonds	in	the	omega-	3	
and	omerga-	6	positions.	 Therefore,	 both	alpha-	linolenic	 acid	(ω-3)	and	linoleic	acid	
(ω-6)	are	also	referred	 to	as	essential fatty acids 	and	they	must	be	obtained	 from	the	
diet.	Omega-	3	fatty	acids	are	important	 for	the	structure	 and	function	 of	cell	mem-
branes,	particularly	 in	the	retina	of	the	eye	and	the	central	nervous	 system.	Omega-	6	
fatty	acids	are	important	 for	growth,	skin	integrity,	 fertility,	and	maintaining	 red	blood	
cell	structure.
	 The	position	 of	the	hydrogen	 atoms	around	a	double	bond	is	another	 way	of	classify-
ing	unsaturated	 fatty	acids.	Unsaturated	 fatty	acids	can	exist	in	two	different	 structural	
forms:	the	cis and trans	forms	(Figure	3.2).	Most	naturally	 occurring	 fatty	acids	are	
usually	in	the	cis	form	in	which	the	hydrogens	 are	on	the	same	side	of	the	carbon–carbon	
double	bond.	During	certain	types	of	food	processing,	 some	hydrogens	 are	transferred	
+\GURJHQVDUHRQWKHVDPHVLGHRIIDWW\DFLGEDFNERQH
+\GURJHQVDUHRQRSSRVLWHVLGHRIIDWW\DFLGEDFNERQHFLVIDWW\DFLG
WUDQVIDWW\DFLGD
E+
&+
& &+
+
&++
++
&
++
&
++2
& +2+
&
++
&&+
++&+
+
+2
& +2+
&
++
&&+
++
&
+ +&+
&
++
&&+
++
&
+ +&+
+
+&+
Figure 3.2 	Cis-	versus	trans-fatty	acids

50		 Macronutrients: lipids
to	opposite	 sides	of	the	carbon–carbon	 double	bond,	creating	 the	trans	form,	or	a	trans- 
fatty acid .	The	cis	bond	causes	the	fatty	acid	backbone	 to	bend.	However,	 the	trans	bond	
allows	the	fatty	acid	backbone	 to	remain	straight,	 which	makes	it	similar	to	the	shape	of	
saturated	 fatty	acid.	For	this	reason,	trans	fatty	acids	are	also	more	likely	to	be	solid	at	
room	temperature.	 Trans	fatty	acids	are	found	in	small	amounts	 in	nature	and	are	
formed	during	food	processing	involving	high	heat	and	high	pressure.
Triglycerides
Most	fatty	acids	do	not	exist	in	their	free	or	unbound	 form	in	foods	or	in	the	body.	
Instead,	 they	are	part	of	larger,	more	complex	 molecules	 called	triglycerides	 or	in	
smaller	molecules	 called	diglycerides	 and	monoglycerides.	 When	three	fatty	acids	are	
attached	 to	a	backbone	 of	the	three-	carbon	molecule	 glycerol,	 the	molecule	 is	called	a	
triglyceride	 (Figure 	3.3a). 	When	one	fatty	acid	is	attached,	 the	molecule	 is	called	a	
monoglyceride,	 and	when	two	fatty	acids	are	attached,	 it	is	a	diglyceride.	 Before	most	
dietary	fats	are	absorbed	 in	the	small	intestine,	 the	two	outer	fatty	acids	are	typically	
removed	 from	triglycerides.	 This	produces	 a	mixture	 of	fatty	acids	and	monoglycerides	
that	can	be	absorbed	 into	intestine	 cells.	After	absorption,	 the	fatty	acids	and	monoglyc -
erides	are	mostly	rejoined	 to	form	triglycerides.	 Triglycerides	 may	contain	any	combina -
tion	of	fatty	acids:	long,	medium,	 short,	saturated,	 or	unsaturated.	 Triglycerides	 make	up	
most	of	the	lipids	in	foods	and	in	the	body,	and	are	usually	what	is	referred	 to	when	the	
term	“fat”	is	used.
Phospholipids
Phospholipids	 are	another	 class	of	lipids.	They	are	important	 constitutes	 of	cell	mem-
branes.	Like	triglycerides,	 they	are	built	on	a	backbone	 of	glycerol.	 However,	 at	least	one	
fatty	acid	is	replaced	 with	a	compound	 containing	 phosphorus	 and	often	other	elements	
such	as	nitrogen	 and	choline	(Figure 	3.3b). 	Lecithin	 is	a	common	 example	 of	phospho-
lipids	that	is	attached	 with	a	molecule	 of	choline.	 The	fatty	acid	end	of	phospholipids	 is	
soluble	 in	fat	or	hydrophobic,	 whereas	 the	phosphate	 end	is	water	soluble	 or	
hydrophilic.	 Phospholipids	 are	amphipathic,	 meaning	 they	contain	 both	polar	
(hydrophilic)	 and	nonpolar	 (hydrophobic)	 potions.	 The	structure	 allows	phospholipids	
to	be	major	components	 of	cell	membranes	 because	they	are	able	to	mix	with	both	water	
and	fat.	Having	such	polarized	 configuration	 makes	phospholipids	 important	 in	carrying	
out	the	digestion,	 absorption,	 and	transport	 of	lipids.	Phospholipids	 are	also	found	in	
food	sources	such	as	eggs,	liver,	soybeans,	wheat	germ,	and	peanuts.
Sterols
In	addition	 to	triglycerides	 and	phospholipids,	 the	lipids	include	the	sterols,	compounds	
with	a	multiple-	 ring	structure	 (Figure 	3.3c). 	A	sterol	can	be	attached	 to	a	fatty	acid	via	an	
ester	bond,	forming	 a	sterol	ester.	The	most	famous	sterol	is	cholesterol.	 Cholesterol	 is	a	
weakly	polar	compound.	 Although	 some	free	or	unbound	 cholesterol	 is	found	in	the	
body,	most	is	bonded	to	a	fatty	acid.	This	cholesterol	 fatty	acid	is	called	cholesteryl	 ester.	
Cholesteryl	 esters	are	more	hydrophobic	 than	free	cholesterol.	 Cholesterol	 can	be	
manufactured	 by	almost	every	tissue	in	the	body,	especially	 the	liver.	Therefore,	 choles-
terol	is	regarded	 as	a	nonessential	 nutrient.	 More	than	90	percent	of	cholesterol	 in	the	
body	is	found	in	cell	membranes.	 It	is	also	part	of	myelin,	the	coating	on	many	nerve	
cells.	Cholesterol	 is	found	only	in	foods	from	animal	sources.	Plant	foods	do	not	contain	
cholesterol	unless	animal	products	are	combined	with	them	in	cooking	or	processing.

Macronutrients: lipids 		51
Transporting lipids in the body
Because	 of	the	inherent	 difficulties	 related	to	the	hydrophobic	 nature	of	lipids,	the	
process	of	lipid	circulation	 in	the	body	is	more	complex	 than	it	is	for	other	macronutri -
ents.	Generally,	 water-	insoluble	 lipids	are	transported	 through	 the	blood	coated	in	a	
water-	soluble	envelope	 created	when	the	lipids	combine	 with	phospholipids	 and	pro-
teins	to	form	transport	 particles	 called	 lipoproteins .	Fat-	soluble	vitamins	 are	also	trans-
ported	in	lipoproteins.	 Lipoproteins	 help	transport	 both	dietary	lipids	from	the	small	
intestine	and	stored	or	newly	synthesized	lipids	from	the	liver.
&&
++&+&2
2 & ++
+&
++&
&
++&
&
+&+
&&
++&+&2
2 & +&
++&
&
++&
&+
+&&++&
&+&
&
+&+
&
&+&+&
&
+
&+
+&
+&
+2&
&
+&
+&+
&&
++&+&2
2 & +&
++&
&
++&
&
+&+
&+ 3222
2
&
+&+
+&+&
& +
2&
++&
&
++&+&
&
++&
&++&
&++&
&+
&+
2 &
+&+
+
&+
& &2
2&
&
++
&
&
++
&
&
++
&
&
++
&
&
++
&
&
++
&
&+ +&7ULJO\FHULGH D
6WHURLGE 3KRVSKROLSLG
F
Figure 3.3		Chemical	 forms	of	common	 lipids:	(a)	triglyceride,	 (b)	phospholipids	 (e.g.,	
lecithin),	and	(c)	sterol	(e.g.,	cholesterol)

52		 Macronutrients: lipids
Transport from the small intestine
After	absorption	 into	the	intestinal	 mucosal	 cells,	lipids	that	are	somewhat	 water	soluble,	
such	as	short-	and	medium-	 chain	fatty	acids	and	phospholipids,	 can	enter	the	blood.	
Lipids	that	are	not	soluble	in	water,	such	as	long-	chain	fatty	acids	and	cholesterol,	
cannot	enter	the	bloodstream	 directly.	 These	fatty	acids	are	first	assembled	 into	triglyc-
erides	by	the	mucosal	 cell.	These	triglycerides	 are	then	combined	 with	cholesterol,	 phos-
pholipids,	 and	a	small	amount	 of	protein	to	form	lipoproteins	 called	 chylomicrons . 
Chylomicrons	 are	absorbed	 into	the	lymphatic	 system	and	then	enter	the	bloodstream	
without	 first	passing	through	 the	liver.	As	chylomicrons	 circulate	 in	the	blood,	the	
enzyme	lipoprotein	 lipase,	present	on	the	surface	of	the	cell	lining	the	blood	vessels,	
breaks	the	triglycerides	 down	into	fatty	acids	and	glycerol,	 which	enter	the	surrounding	
cells.	The	fatty	acids	can	be	used	either	as	fuel	or	resynthesized	 into	triglycerides	 for	
storage.	What	remains	 of	the	chylomicrons	 composed	 mostly	of	cholesterol	 and	protein	
goes	to	the	liver	to	be	disassembled.
Transport from the liver to the body cells
The	liver	is	the	major	lipid-	producing	 organ	where	excess	protein,	carbohydrate,	 or	alcohol	
can	be	broken	down	and	used	to	make	triglycerides	 or	cholesterol.	 Triglycerides	 made	in	
the	liver	are	incorporated	 into	lipoprotein	 particles	 called	 very low- density lipoproteins  
(VLDLs).	VLDLs	are	rich	in	triglycerides	 and	thus	are	very	low	in	density.	The	VLDL	trans-
ports	lipids	out	of	the	liver	and	delivers	triglycerides	 to	body	cells.	Once	in	the	blood-
stream,	as	with	chylomicrons,	 the	enzyme	lipoprotein	 lipase	breaks	down	the	triglycerides 	
in	the	VLDL	so	that	the	fatty	acids	can	be	taken	up	by	the	surrounding	cells.
	 As	its	triglycerides	 are	released,	 the	VLDL	becomes	 proportionately	 denser.	Much	of	
what	eventually	 remains	 of	the	VLDL	fraction	 is	then	called	 low- density lipoproteins  
(LDLs);	these	are	composed	 primarily	 of	the	remaining	 cholesterol.	 The	primary	func-
tion	of	the	LDL	is	to	transport	 cholesterol	 to	tissues.	For	LDLs	to	be	taken	up	by	the	
cells,	a	protein	on	the	surface	of	the	LDL	particle	must	bind	to	a	receptor	 on	the	cell	
membrane.	 This	allows	LDLs	to	be	removed	 from	circulation	 and	to	enter	cells	where	
their	cholesterol	 and	other	components	 can	be	used.	If	LDLs	are	not	readily	cleared	
from	the	bloodstream,	 endothelial	 cells	of	the	arteries	will	take	them	up,	leading	to	
atherosclerosis ,	a	condition	 in	which	an	artery	wall	thickens	 as	the	result	of	a	build-	up	of	
fatty	materials	 such	as	cholesterol.	 High	levels	of	LDL	in	the	blood	have	been	associated	
with	an	increased	risk	for	heart	disease.
	 Since	 most	body	cells	cannot	effectively	 break	down	cholesterol,	 it	must	be	returned	
to	the	liver	to	be	eliminated	 from	the	body.	This	reverse	cholesterol	 transport	 is	accomp-
lished	by	the	densest	 of	the	lipoprotein	 particles	 called	 high- density lipoproteins  
(HDLs).	The	liver	and	intestine	produce	most	of	the	HDLs	in	the	blood.	The	HDLs	pick	
up	cholesterol	 from	dying	cells	and	other	lipoproteins,	 and	function	 as	a	temporary	
storage	site	for	lipids.	Some	of	the	cholesterol	 in	HDLs	is	taken	directly	to	the	liver	for	
disposal,	 and	some	is	transferred	 to	organs	that	have	a	high	requirement	 for	cholesterol,	
such	as	those	involved	 in	steroid	hormone	 synthesis.	 High	levels	of	HDL	in	the	blood	are	
associated	with	a	reduction	in	heart	disease	risk.
Food sources of lipids
The	fat	content	in	foods	can	vary	from	100	percent,	 as	found	in	most	cooking	 oils	and	
spreads	such	as	butter,	margarine,	 and	mayonnaise,	 to	minor	trace	amounts,	 less	than	
5	percent,	 as	found	in	most	fruits	and	vegetables.	 Some	foods	obviously	 have	a	high	fat	

Macronutrients: lipids 		53
content.	 For	example,	 foods	high	in	fat	include	nuts,	bologna,	 avocados,	 and	bacon,	
which	have	about	80	percent	 of	calories	 as	fat;	these	are	followed	 by	peanut	butter,	
cheddar	 cheese,	steak,	hamburgers,	 ice	cream,	doughnuts,	 and	whole	milk	(Table 	3.1). 	
However,	 in	other	foods,	the	fat	content	may	be	high	but	not	as	obvious.	 This	is	known	
as	hidden	fat.	For	example,	 some	baked	goods	such	as	cakes,	muffins,	 croissants,	 cookies,	
crackers,	 and	chips	contain	 considerable	 amounts	 of	fat,	but	people	often	remain	
unaware	 of	this.	A	5-oz	baked	potato	contains	 145	kcal	with	about	3	percent	 fat,	but	
people	often	ignore	the	fact	that	the	same	size	serving	of	potato	chips	contains	 795	kcal,	
over	60	percent	of	them	from	fat.
	 The	type	of	fat	in	food	is	important	 to	consider	 along	with	the	total	amount	of	fat.	
Animal	fats	are	the	chief	contributors 	of	saturated 	fatty	acids.	About	40	to	60	percent	of	the	
total	fat	in	dairy	and	meat	products	 is	in	the	form	of	saturated	 fatty	acids	(Figure	3.4).	In	
contrast,	 plant	oils	contain	mostly	unsaturated	 fatty	acids,	ranging	from	70	to	95	percent	of	
total	fat.	Some	of	the	plant	oils	are	good	sources	of	monounsaturated	 fatty	acids	such	as	
canola,	olive,	and	peanut	oils.	Corn,	sunflower,	 soybean,	 and	safflower	 oils	contain	mostly	
polyunsaturated	 fatty	acids.	These	plant	oils	supply	the	majority	 of	the	alpha-	linoleic	
(omega-	3)	and	linoleic	(omega-	6)	in	the	North	American 	food	supply.	These	fatty	acids	
are	considered 	as	essential	fatty	acids,	meaning 	that	they	must	be	obtained 	through	the	
diet	because	 human	cells	lack	the	enzymes	 needed	to	produce	 these	fatty	acids.	Both	
omega-	3	and	omega-	6	fatty	acids	perform	 important	 roles	in	immune	 function	 and	vision,	
help	form	cell	membrane, 	and	produce	hormone- 	like	compounds. 	T able	3 .2	exhibits	
amounts	of	omega-	 3	fatty	acid	of	commonly	chosen	fish	and	seafood	products.
	 As	mentioned	 earlier,	wheat	germ,	peanuts,	 egg	yolks,	soybeans,	 and	organ	meats	are	
rich	sources	of	phospholipids.	 Phospholipids	 such	as	lecithin,	 a	component	 of	egg	yolks,	
are	often	added	to	salad	dressings.	 Lecithin	 is	used	as	an	emulsifier	 because	of	its	ability	to	
prevent	mixtures	 of	lipids	and	water	from	separating.	 Emulsifiers	 are	added	to	salad	dress-
ings	to	keep	the	vegetable 	oil	suspended 	in	water.	The	fact	that	eggs	are	added	to	cake	
batters	is	another	example	of	phospholipids	being	used	to	emulsify	the	fat	with	water.
Table 3.1	Fat	content	of	commonly	selected	foods
Foods Serving size Fat (g) Calories from fat (%)
Canola	oil 1	tablespoon 14 100
Margarine 1	tablespoon 12 100
Butter 1	tablespoon 12 100
Avocado 1/2	cup 11 86
Mixed	nuts 1	ounce 16 78
Peanut	butter 1	tablespoon 8 76
Cheddar	cheese 1	ounce 10 74
T-bone	steak 3	ounces 17 66
Flax	seeds 1	tablespoon 3 62
Whole	milk 1	cup 8 49
Snack	crackers 1	ounce 7 45
Doughnut 1 5 45
Hamburger 1 12 39
Chocolate	candies 1	ounces 6 39
Chicken	breast	with	skin 3	ounces 7 36
2%	milk 1	cup 5 36
Chicken	breast	without	skin 3	ounces 6 32
Baked	beans 1/2	cup 7 31
Yogurt 8	ounces 7 28
Low-fat	yogurt 8	ounces 4 18

54		 Macronutrients: lipids
Table 3.2	Omega-3	fatty	acid	content	of	fish	and	seafood
Food Omega-3 fatty acid (g)
Salmon 1.15
Swordfish 1.15
Trout 1.15
Shark 0.83
Flounder 0.48
Sole 0.44
Cod 0.44
Squid 0.40
Crab 0.35
Oyster 0.30
Shrimp 0.27
Scallop 0.27
Mussel 0.26
Clam 0.26
Tuna 0.23
Lobster 0.07
Source:	adapted	from	USDA	Nutrient	Data	Laboratory.
Note
All	values	represent	 estimated	 amounts	 in	a	3-ounce	 cooked	portion	and	these	values	may	vary	markedly	
with	species,	season,	diet,	packaging,	and	cooking	methods.
Coconut oil
Whole milk
Butter
Cream cheese
Palm oil
Beef
Lard
Chicke n
Salmon
Olive oil
Stick margar ine
Tub margar ine
Peanut oil
Corn oil
Soybean oil
Sunflo wer oil
Flaxseed oil
Safflo wer oil
Canola oil
02 04 06 08 0 100Saturated f atty acids
Monounsaturated f atty acids
Polyunsaturated f atty acids
Fatty acid content (%)
Figure 3.4 		Saturated,	 monounsaturated,	 and	polyunsaturated	 fatty	acid	content	 of	various	
sources	of	dietary	lipid

Macronutrients: lipids 		55
	 Cholesterol,	 a	common	 example	 of	sterol	and	widespread	 in	plasma	membrane	 of	all	
cells,	is	obtained	 either	through	 the	diet	or	through	 cellular	 synthesis.	 Cholesterol	
obtained	 from	the	diet	is	referred	 to	as	exogenous	 cholesterol,	 while	cholesterol	 pro-
duced	within	the	body	is	referred	 to	as	endogenous	 cholesterol.	 Even	if	an	individual	
maintains	 a	“cholesterol-	 free”	diet,	endogenous	 cholesterol	 synthesis	 varies	between	 500	
and	2000	mg	per	day.	More	endogenous	 cholesterol	 forms	with	a	diet	high	in	saturated	
fatty	acids.	Exogenous	 cholesterol	 is	found	only	in	animal	foods	(Table 	3.3). 	Eggs	are	
our	main	source	of	cholesterol,	 along	with	meat	and	whole	milk.	One	egg	yolk	contains	
about	200	mg	of	cholesterol.	 Organ	meats	contain	about	300	mg	per	3-oz	serving.	Lean	
red	meat	and	chicken	contains	 100	mg,	whereas	 fish	contains	 50	mg	in	3	oz.	The	produc-
tion	of	endogenous	 cholesterol	 is	usually	sufficient	 to	meet	the	body’s	needs;	hence	
severely	 reducing	 cholesterol	 intake	may	cause	little	harm	except	in	pregnant	 women	
and	infants.
Major roles of lipids in the body
The	blood	carries	lipids	to	various	sites	around	the	body.	Once	they	arrive	at	their	
destinations,	 the	lipids	can	get	to	work	providing	 energy,	insulating	 against	temperature	
extremes,	 protecting	 against	shock,	and	maintaining	 cellular	integrity.	 The	following	
sections	describe	each	of	these	roles	in	more	detail.
Table 3.3	Cholesterol	content	of	commonly	selected	foods
Foods Serving size Cholesterol content (mg)
Skim	milk 1	cup 4
Mayonnaise 1	tablespoon 10
Butter 1	pat 11
Lard 1	tablespoon 12
Cottage	cheese 1/2	cup 15
Low-fat	milk	(2%) 1	cup 22
Half-and-half 1/4	cup 23
Hot	dog 1 29
Ice cream 1/2	cup 30
Cheddar	cheese 1	ounce 30
Whole	milk 1	cup 34
Oyster 3	ounces 40
Salmon 3	ounces 40
Clam 3	ounces 55
Tuna 3	ounces 55
Chicken 3	ounces 70
Turkey 3	ounces 70
Beef 3	ounces 75
Pork 3	ounces 75
Lamb 3	ounces 85
Crab 3	ounces 85
Shrimp 3	ounces 110
Lobster 3	ounces 110
Heart 3	ounces 165
Egg	yolk 1 210
Beef	liver 3	ounces 410
Kidney 3	ounces 540
Source:	USDA	National	Nutrient	Database	for	Standard	Reference,	Release	22,	2009.

56		 Macronutrients: lipids
Energy source and reserves
Triglycerides	 provide	an	important	 source	of	energy.	For	this	to	happen,	 they	must	first	
be	broken	down	into	glycerol	 and	fatty	acids.	This	process,	 called	 lipolysis,	is	catalyzed	
by	the	enzyme	hormone-	 sensitive	 lipase,	whose	activity	increases	 when	secretion	 of	the	
pancreatic	 hormone	 insulin	is	low.	Lipolysis	 is	also	stimulated	 by	exercise	 and	
physiological	 stress.	Compared	 to	other	energy-	yielding	nutrients,	 triglycerides	 represent	
the	body’s	richest	source	of	energy.	As	noted	earlier,	the	complete	 breakdown	 of	1	gram	
of	triglycerides	 yields	approximately	 9	kcal	of	energy,	which	is	more	than	twice	the	yield	
from	1	gram	of	carbohydrate	 or	protein.	 Therefore,	 gram	for	gram,	high-	fat	foods	
contain	more	calories	than	do	other	foods.
	 The	pancreatic	 hormone	 insulin	stimulates	 the	storage	of	triglycerides,	 a	process	that	
is	opposite	 to	lipolysis.	 This	occurs	during	times	of	energy	excess.	Insulin	causes	adi-
pocytes,	and	to	a	lesser	extent	skeletal	muscle	cells	to	take	up	glucose	and	fatty	acids	and	
convert	glucose	into	fatty	acids.	Fatty	acids	are	then	incorporated	 into	triglycerides.	 The	
synthesis	 of	fatty	acids	and	triglycerides	 is	called	 lipogenesis .	Triglycerides	 are	stored	in	
adipose	 tissue	and,	to	a	lesser	extent,	in	skeletal	muscle.	 Adipose	 tissue	consists	 of	
specialized	 cells	called	adipocytes,	 which	can	accumulate	 large	amounts	 of	lipids.	
Adipose	 tissue	is	found	in	many	parts	of	the	body,	including	 beneath	 the	skin	
(subcutaneous	 adipose	 tissue)	and	around	the	vital	organs	in	the	abdomen	 (visceral	
adipose	tissue).	Considerable 	adipose	tissue	is	also	associated 	with	many	of	the	body’s	
organs,	such	as	the	kidneys	and	breasts,	making	it	possible	for	these	organs	to	have	ready	
access	to	fatty	acids	for	their	energy	needs.	Because	lipids	are	not	stored	with	water	as	are	
glycogen	 and	protein,	the	body	can	store	a	large	amount	of	triglycerides	 in	a	small	space.	
This	will	result	in	our	ability	to	warehouse	 almost	unlimited	 amounts	 of	energy.	An	average	
individual	 is	capable	of	storing	between	 100,000	and	150,000	kcal	of	fat	energy,	which	is	
equivalent	to	75	to	100	times	the	carbohydrate	energy	that	we	normally	store.
Insulation and protection
Triglycerides 	stored	in	adipose	tissue	also	insulate	the	body	and	protect	internal	organs	
from	injury.	Although	 most	of	us	do	not	rely	on	adipose	tissue	to	keep	warm,	people	with	
very	little	body	fat	can	have	difficulty	regulating 	body	temperature. 	Early	research	has	
demonstrated	 that	fats	stored	just	below	the	skin	determine	 ability	to	tolerate	extremes	 of	
cold	exposure.	 For	example,	 it	was	found	that	swimmers	 who	excelled	 in	swimming	 the	
English	Channel	 showed	only	a	slight	fall	in	body	temperature	 while	resting	in	cold	water	
and	essentially	 no	lowering	 effect	while	swimming.	 In	contrast,	 body	temperature	 of	leaner,	
non-	Channel	 swimmers	 decreased	 markedly	 under	rest	and	exercise	 conditions.	 In	fact,	
one	common 	physiological 	response	to	becoming 	excessively 	lean	is	to	develop	very	fine	
hair	covering	 the	body.	This	hair,	often	referred	 to	as	lanugo,	partially	makes	up	for	the	
absence	of	subcutaneous	 adipose	tissue	by	providing	 a	layer	of	external	 insulation	 for	the	
body.	The	presence	 of	lanugo	is	common	 in	very	lean	individuals,	 such	as	those	with	eating	
disorders.	 For	large	football	linemen	 or	athletes	involved	 in	contact	sports,	excess	fat	
storage	may	provide	additional	 cushioning	 to	protect	them	from	high	impact.	However, 	
this	protective	 benefit	should	be	interpreted	 with	caution,	as	such	excess	fat	can	have	neg-
ative	consequences	for	energy	expenditure,	thermoregulation,	and	exercise	performance.
Components of cell membranes
Phospholipids	 make	up	the	major	structural	 component	 of	all	cell	membranes.	 More	
specifically,	 cell	membranes	 consist	of	two	layers	of	phospholipids	 with	the	hydrophilic	

Macronutrients: lipids 		57
polar	head	group	pointing	 to	the	extra-	and	intra-	cellular	spaces.	Remember	 that	these	
compartments	 are	predominantly	 water.	To	function	 effectively,	 cell	membranes	 must	
be	able	to	provide	stable	barriers	 between	 these	spaces.	If	the	cell	membrane	 is	com-
pletely	hydrophilic,	 it	will	dissolve	and	not	create	a	barrier.	On	the	other	hand,	if	the	
cell	membrane	 were	completely	 hydrophobic,	 there	would	be	no	communication	
between	 extra-	and	intra-	cellular	compartments.	 The	incorporation	 of	phospholipids	
that	are	amphipathic	 and	have	both	the	hydrophobic	 and	hydrophilic	 portions	 allows	
cell	membranes	to	effectively	carry	out	their	functions.
	 Many	 important	 body	compounds	 are	sterols.	Among	them	are	bile	acids,	the	sex	
hormones	 such	as	testosterone,	 the	adrenal	hormone	 such	as	cortisol,	 vitamin	D,	and	
cholesterol	 itself.	Cholesterol	 in	the	body	can	serve	as	the	starting	material	 for	the	syn-
thesis	of	these	compounds	 or	as	a	structural	 component	 of	cell	membranes;	 more	than	
90	percent	of	the	body’s	cholesterol	 resides	in	the	cells.	Despite	popular	 impression	 to	
the	contrary,	 cholesterol	 is	a	necessary	 compound	 which	the	body	makes	and	uses,	
although	 cholesterol	 in	excess	can	be	harmful.	 As	noted	earlier,	the	liver	is	the	main	site	
where	cholesterol	 is	produced.	 In	fact,	the	liver	makes	about	800	to	1500	mg	of	choles-
terol	per	day,	contributing	 much	more	to	the	body’s	total	than	diet.	Cholesterol’s	
harmful	 effects	in	the	body	occur	when	it	forms	deposits	 in	the	artery	walls.	These	depos-
its	may	lead	to	atherosclerosis.	 If	left	untreated,	 atherosclerosis	 can	cause	heart	attacks	
and	strokes.
Health implications of lipids
Adequate	 amounts	 of	essential	 fatty	acids	are	required	 in	the	diet	to	maintain	 normal	
body	function.	 However,	 diets	high	in	fat,	particularly	 some	types	of	fats,	are	associated	
with	an	increased	 risk	for	many	chronic	 diseases.	 The	development	 of	cardiovascular	
disease	has	been	linked	to	diets	high	in	cholesterol,	 saturated	 fat,	and	trans-	fat	(Krauss	
et al.	1996,	Shikany	 and	White	2000).	In	addition,	 the	risk	for	certain	types	of	cancer,	
including	 that	of	the	breast,	colon,	and	prostate,	 has	been	associated	 with	a	high	fat	
intake.	Obesity	is	also	associated	 with	diets	high	in	fat	because	 these	diets	are	usually	
high	in	energy	and	promote	 the	storage	of	body	fat.	Excess	body	fat	in	turn	is	associated	
with	an	increased	risk	of	diabetes,	cardiovascular	disease,	and	high	blood	pressure.
Omega- 3 fatty acids
When	saturated	 fat	in	the	diet	is	replaced	 by	any	type	of	polyunsaturated	 fat,	there	is	a	
beneficial	 decrease	 in	LDL	cholesterol	 which	is	often	regarded	 as	“bad”	cholesterol	 that	
promotes	 plaque	build-	up	in	the	coronary	 arteries.	 One	such	example	 of	polyunsatu -
rated	fat	is	omega-	3	fatty	acids.	Regular	 consumption	 of	omega-	3	fatty	acids	has	been	
found	to	reduce	LDL	cholesterol	 levels	while	possibly	increasing	 HDL	cholesterol	 levels	
(Katan et al.	1995,	Stone	1997,	Connor	and	Connor	1997).	It	has	been	considered	 that	
replacing	 some	of	the	fat	in	the	diet	with	omega-	3	fatty	acids	reduces	the	incidence	 of	
cardiovascular	 disease	(Leaf	2007,	Yokoyama	 et al.	2007).	This	is	because	 omega-	3	fatty	
acids	may	reduce	heart	disease	risk	by	preventing	 the	growth	of	atherosclerotic	 plaque	
and	by	affecting	 blood	clotting,	 blood	pressure,	 and	immune	 function.	 For	example,	 in	
Mediterranean	 countries	 where	the	diet	is	high	in	monounsaturated	 fat	such	as	olive	oil	
as	well	as	grains,	fruits,	and	vegetables,	 the	mortality	 rate	from	heart	disease	is	only	half	
of	that	in	the	United	States	according	 to	the	American	 Heart	Association	 statistics.	 The	
beneficial	 effects	are	greater	when	the	omega-	3	fatty	acids	are	consumed	 from	seafood,	
such	as	salmon	and	tuna,	rather	than	supplements.	 It	is	recommended	 by	the	American	
Heart	Association	 that	one	should	consume	 two	3-oz	servings	 of	fish	(particularly	 fatty	

58		 Macronutrients: lipids
fish	such	as	mackerel,	 lake	trout,	herring,	 sardines,	 albacore	 tuna,	and	salmon)	 a	week	
to	be	protected	against	cardiovascular	diseases.
	 Omega-	 3	fatty	acids	also	play	a	crucial	role	in	brain	function,	 as	well	as	normal	growth	
and	development.	 Omega-	3	fatty	acids	are	highly	concentrated	 in	the	brain	and	appear	to	
be	important	 for	cognitive	 (brain	memory	 and	performance)	 and	behavioral	 function.	 In	
fact,	infants	who	do	not	get	enough	omega-	3	fatty	acids	from	their	mothers	 during	preg-
nancy	are	at	risk	for	developing	 vision	and	nerve	problems.	 Evidence	 is	mounting	 to	
support	the	use	of	omega-	3	fatty	acids	for	treating	depression,	 bipolar	disorder,	 attention 	
deficit/hyperactivity	disorder	(ADHD),	and	age-	 related	cognitive	decline.
	 It	is	important	 to	have	the	proper	ratio	of	omega-	3	and	omega-	6	in	the	diet.	Omega-	3	
fatty	acids	help	reduce	inflammation,	 and	most	omega-	6	fatty	acids	tend	to	promote	
inflammation.	 The	typical	American	 diet	contains	 14	to	25	times	more	omega-	6	fatty	
acids	than	omega-	3	fatty	acids,	which	many	nutritionally	 oriented	 physicians	 consider	 to	
be	way	too	high	on	the	omega-	6	side.	In	order	to	maintain	 a	healthy	balance	in	the	body,	
a	dietary	ratio	of	omega-	6	to	omega-	3	fatty	acids	of	5:1	to	10:1	is	recommended.	 Studies	
suggest	that	higher	dietary	omega-	6	to	omega-	3	ratios	appear	to	be	associated	 with	wors-
ening	inflammation	 over	time	and	a	higher	risk	of	death	among	hemodialysis	 patients	
(Noori	 et al.	2011).
Trans fat
Both	clinical	and	epidemiological	 studies	provide	evidence	 that	a	high	trans-	fatty	acid	
intake	increases	 the	risk	of	heart	disease.	Many	studies	have	shown	that	people	who	ate	
more	trans-	fat	were	nearly	30	percent	 more	likely	to	die	from	heart	disease,	 and	21	
percent	 were	more	likely	to	develop	 heart	disease,	 compared	 with	people	who	ate	
smaller	amounts	 of	trans-	fats	(Mozaffarian	 et al.,	2009).	Some	of	the	increase	 in	risk	is	
because	 trans-	fatty	acid	intake	increases	 LDL	cholesterol	 levels	and,	at	high	intakes,	
lowers	HDL	cholesterol.	 Reports	 on	trans-	fatty	acids	have	raised	consumers’	 doubts	
about	whether	 margarine	 is,	after	all,	a	better	choice	than	butter	for	heart	health.	As	
indicated	 by	the	American	 Health	Association,	 because	 butter	is	rich	in	both	saturated	
fat	and	cholesterol	 while	margarine	 is	made	from	plant	oil	with	no	dietary	cholesterol,	
margarine	 is	still	preferable	 to	butter.	In	fact,	soft	margarine	 (liquid	or	tub)	could	be	an	
even	better	choice	because	it	is	less	hydrogenated	 and	lower	in	trans-	fatty	acids.	They	do	
not	raise	blood	cholesterol,	 as	do	the	saturated	 fats	of	butter	or	the	trans-	fatty	acids	of	
hard	(stick)	margarine	(Lichtenstein	 et al.	1999).
Obesity: excessive adiposity
Obesity	is	a	medical	 condition	 in	which	excess	body	fat	has	accumulated	 to	the	extent	
that	it	may	have	an	adverse	effect	on	health,	leading	to	reduced	 life	expectancy	 and/or	
increased	 health	problems.	 Although	 the	etiology	of	obesity	is	complex,	 nutrient	 intake	
is	a	major	contributor.	 As	fatty	acids	provide	more	than	twice	as	many	calories	per	gram	
than	carbohydrate	 and	protein,	 fat	intake	is	likely	an	important	 piece	of	the	obesity	
puzzle.	Regardless	 of	cause,	obesity	is	a	major	public	health	concern	 worldwide	 and	is	
associated	 with	increased	 risk	for	many	diseases	 such	as	cardiovascular	 disease,	type	2	
diabetes,	 and	some	forms	of	cancer.	It	has	been	recommended	 that	to	reduce	the	risk	
for	obesity	we	limit	our	fat	consumption.	 In	response	 to	the	obesity	epidemic	 and	con-
sumer	demand	 for	reducing	 the	prevalence	 of	obesity,	 many	food	manufacturers	
produce	 low-	fat	and	fat-	free	products	 as	well	as	foods	that	contain	fat	substitutes.	 These	
alternative	 products	 replicate	 the	taste,	texture,	 and	cooking	 properties	 of	fat,	but	
contribute	less	energy.

Macronutrients: lipids 		59
Cancer
Cancer	is	the	second	leading	cause	of	death	in	the	United	States,	and	it	is	estimated	 that	
30	to	40	percent	of	the	cancers	are	directly	linked	to	dietary	choices.	 As	with	cardiovas -
cular	disease,	there	is	a	body	of	epidemiological	 evidence	 correlating	 diet	and	lifestyle	
with	the	incidence	 of	cancer.	For	example,	 in	populations	 where	the	diet	is	high	in	fat	
and	low	in	fiber,	the	incidence	 of	breast	cancer	is	high.	In	populations	 where	the	typical	
fat	intake	is	low,	the	incidence	 is	lower	and	survival	rate	is	better	in	patients	 with	the	
disease.	Epidemiology	 has	also	correlated	 the	incidence	 of	colon	cancer	with	high-	fat,	
low-	fiber	diets.	The	correlation	 is	stronger	 for	diets	high	in	animal	fat,	especially	 those	
from	red	meats.	The	mechanism	 by	which	a	high	intake	of	dietary	fat	increases	 the	inci-
dence	of	various	cancers	is	less	well	understood	 than	the	relationship	 between	 dietary	fat	
and	cardiovascular	 disease.	However,	 dietary	fat	has	been	suggested	 to	be	both	a	tumor	
promoter and initiator.
Summary
•	 Lipids,	 like	carbohydrate,	 contain	carbon,	hydrogen,	 and	oxygen,	but	with	a	higher	
ratio	of	hydrogen	 to	oxygen.	The	major	lipid	classes	include	fatty	acids,	triglycerides,	
phospholipids,	 and	sterols,	with	the	triglycerides	 predominating	 both	in	foods	and	
in	the	body.
•	 Fatty	 acids	consist	of	a	carbon	chain	with	an	acid	group	at	one	end.	The	length	of	
the	carbon	chain	and	the	number	 and	position	 of	the	carbon–carbon	 double	bonds	
determine	 the	characteristics	 of	the	fat.	Some	fatty	acids,	such	as	alpha-	linolenic	
acid (ω-3)	and	linoleic	acid	(ω-6),	are	considered	 essential	 because	 they	cannot	be	
synthesized	by	the	body.	Most	fatty	acids	are	found	as	part	of	triglycerides.
•	 The	 liver	is	the	major	lipid-	producing	 organ	where	excess	protein,	 carbohydrate,	 or	
alcohol	can	be	broken	down	and	used	to	make	triglycerides	 or	cholesterol.	 The	liver	
also	takes	up	cholesterol	 via	HDL	for	disposal,	 thereby	 reducing	 risk	for	
atherosclerosis.
•	 Foods	 rich	in	fat	include	cooking	 oils	and	spreads	such	as	butter,	margarine,	 and	
mayonnaise.	 Nuts,	bologna,	 avocados,	 and	bacon	are	also	high	in	fat,	followed	 by	
peanut	butter,	cheddar	 cheese,	steak,	hamburgers,	 ice	cream,	doughnuts,	 and	
whole	milk.
•	 Lipoproteins	 are	particles	 found	in	the	blood	that	combine	 lipids	with	proteins.	
They	include	 sub-	fractions	 of	chylomicrons,	 very	low-	density	lipoproteins,	 low-	
density	lipoproteins,	 and	high-	density	lipoproteins,	 which	serve	as	vehicles	 for	the	
transport	of	lipids	between	the	small	intestine,	the	liver,	and	body	tissues.
•	 Lipids	 provide	 the	largest	nutrient	 store	of	potential	 energy	for	biological	 work.	
Other	major	functions	 of	lipids	include	insulating	 against	temperature	 extremes,	
protecting	 against	shock,	maintaining	 cellular	integrity,	 and	transporting	 the	fat-	
soluble	vitamins	A,	D,	E,	and	K.
•	 Diets	 high	in	total	fat,	saturated	 fat,	trans-	fat,	and	cholesterol	 increase	 the	risk	for	
developing	 cardiovascular	 diseases,	 metabolic	 disorders,	 and	certain	types	of	cancer.	
However,	 diets	high	in	ω-3	and	ω-6	polyunsaturated	 fatty	acids	along	with	plant	
foods	containing	 fiber,	antioxidants,	 and	photochemical	 protect	 against	these	
chronic	conditions.
•	 Omega-	 3	fatty	acids	play	a	crucial	role	in	brain	function,	 as	well	as	normal	growth	
and	development.	 Evidence	 is	mounting	 to	support	the	use	of	omega-	3	fatty	acids	
for	treating	 depression,	 bipolar	disorder,	 attention	 deficit/hyperactivity	 disorder	
(ADHD),	and	age-	 related	cognitive	decline.

60		 Macronutrients: lipids
Case study: eating healthier fats
Thomas	 has	a	busy	schedule,	 working	 full	time	and	attending	 college,	 and	has	little	
time	to	cook	meals	at	home.	Currently,	 for	breakfast	 and	lunch	he	relies	on	things	he	
can	pick	up	on	the	way	to	school	or	between	 classes.	He	makes	a	quick	dinner	when	he	
gets	home	in	the	evening.	 He	is	concerned	 about	the	fat	in	his	diet	and	wants	to	know	
how	to	make	healthier	 choices.	 Recently,	 Thomas	 analyzed	 his	original	diet	and	then	
modified	 it	to	try	to	meet	the	recommendations	 for	a	healthy	mix	of	fats.	Table 	3.4 	
provides	the	results	of	dietary	analysis	for	his	original	and	modified	diets.
Table 3.4	Results	of	Thomas’s	dietary	analysis
Original diet
Food Size Fat (g) Sat (g) Trans (g)
Breakfast
Bran	muffin 1	large 6 2.6 0.5
Margarine 2	tsp 8 1.3 2
Whole	milk 1	cup 8 5 0.2
Lunch
Big	Mac 1 31 12.5 1
French	fries 1	med 22 5 5
Water 1	bottle 0 0 0
Snack
Apple 1	med 0 0 0
Dinner
Fish	sticks 	5 17 2.4 2
Tater	tots 10 8 6 4
Coconut	cookies 	2 13 3.4 3.3
Total 113 38.2 18
Modified diet
Chol (mg) Food Size Fat (g) Sat (g) Trans (g) Chol (mg)
Breakfast
	24 Bran	muffin 1	large 62.60.5 24
		0 Orange 1	med 000 0
	33 Skim	milk 1	cup 2.61.60 10
Lunch
	80 Rice	noodles 1	cup 000 0
		0 Stir-fry	veges	w/oil 1	cup 5.30.80 0
		0 Water 1	bottle 000 0
Snack
		0 Apple 1	med 000 0
Dinner
	33 Trout 3	ounces 12 1.20 63
		0 Baked	potato	w/sour	cream 1	med 3.21.70 10
		0 Green	beans 1/2	cup 000 0
Salad	w/oil 1	cup 10 1.20 0
Frozen	yogurt 2/3	cup 1.81.20 5
170 Total 40.910.30.5 112

Macronutrients: lipids 		61
Review questions
1	 What	 is	a	lipid?	Name	three	classes	of	lipids	found	in	the	body	and	provide	 an	
example	for	each.
2	 How	do	phospholipids	 differ	from	triglycerides	 in	structure?	 What	roles	do	triglycer-
ides	and	phospholipids	play	in	the	body?
3	 Why	is	LDL-	 C	considered	“bad”	cholesterol	and	HDL	“good”	cholesterol?
4	 Describe	 the	structure	 of	saturated,	 monounsaturated,	 and	polyunsaturated	 fatty	acids	
and	their	effects	in	the	body.	Why	are	unsaturated	fatty	acids	highly	recommended?
5	 Describe	 “cis-”	and	“trans-”	 fatty	acids.	Why	do	trans-	fats	pose	a	greater	health	
concern?	List	some	foods	that	are	high	in	trans-	 fats.
6	 What	role	does	the	liver	play	in	transporting	ingested	lipids	to	body	cells?
7	 What	are	the	major	functions	of	lipids	in	the	body?
8	 What	are	the	health	benefits	of	omega-	 3	fatty	acids?
9	 What	negative	health	consequences	can	excess	adiposity	cause?
Suggested reading
1	 Burke	 LM,	Collier	GR,	Hargreaves	 M	(1998)	Glycemic	 index	–	a	new	tool	in	sport	
nutrition?	 International Journal of Sport Nutrition ,	8:	401–415.
 The glycemic index provides a way to rank foods rich in carbohydrate according to the glucose 
response following their intake. This review article discusses specifically how the concept of the gly -
cemic index may be applied to training and sports competition.
2	 Coyle	 EF	(2000)	Physical	 activity	as	a	metabolic	 stressor.	 American Journal of Clinical 
Nutrition,	72(2	Suppl):	512S–520S.
 Physical activity provides stimuli that promote specific and varied adaptations according to the 
type, intensity, and duration of exercise performed. This article talks about how diet or supple -
mentation can further enhance the body’s responses and adaptations to these positive stimuli.
3	 Jenkins	 DJ,	Kendall	 CW,	Augustin	 LS,	Franceschi	 S,	Hamidi	M,	Marchie	 A,	Jenkins	
AL,	Axelsen	M	(2002)	Glycemic	 index:	overview	 of	implications	 in	health	and	disease.	
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition ,	76:	266S–2673S.
 This article provides a solid review of literature on the glycemic index and its relevance to those 
chronic Western diseases associated with central obesity and insulin resistance. The authors 
believe that the glycemic index concept is an extension of the fiber hypothesis, suggesting that fiber 
consumption reduces the rate of nutrient influx from the gut.
Glossary
Atherosclerosis 	a	condition	 in	which	an	artery	wall	thickens	 as	the	result	of	a	build-	up	
of	fatty	materials	such	as	cholesterol.
Chylomicrons 	lipoprotein	 particles	 that	consist	of	triglycerides,	 cholesterol,	 phospholi -
pids,	and	a	small	amount	of	protein.Questions
•	 Assuming	 Thomas	 is	eating	2500	kcal	per	day,	calculate	 the	percentage	 of	energy	
from	fat,	saturated	fat,	and	trans-	 fat	in	his	original	diet.
•	 How	do	these	percentages	compare	to	recommendations?
•	 What	 foods	are	the	biggest	contributors	 to	his	saturated	 fat	intake?	To	his	trans-	fat	
intake?	To	his	cholesterol	intake?
•	 Assuming	 his	caloric	intake	stays	the	same,	calculate	 the	percentage	 of	energy	from	
fat,	saturated	fat,	and	trans-	 fat	in	his	modified	diet.

62		 Macronutrients: lipids
Essential fatty acids 	 	the	fatty	acids	that	cannot	be	synthesized	 in	the	body	and	must	be	
obtained	from	food.
Fatty acids 	a	long	chain	of	carbons	bonded	together	 and	flanked	by	hydrogen	 with	one	
end	of	the	molecule	 being	an	acid	group	(COOH)	 and	the	other	end	being	a	
methyl	group	(CH3).
High- density lipoproteins 	the	densest	lipoprotein	 particles	 that	transport	 cholesterol	 to	
the	liver.
Lipids	a	broad	group	of	naturally	 occurring	 molecules	 which	includes	 fats,	waxes,	
sterols,	and	phospholipids.
Lipogenesis 	formation	of	triglycerides,	a	process	that	is	opposite	to	lipolysis.
Lipolysis 	a	process	in	which	triglycerides	are	broken	down	into	glycerol	and	fatty	acids.
Lipoproteins 	transport	 particles	 formed	by	lipids	combining	 with	phospholipids	 and	
proteins.
Low- density lipoproteins 	lipoprotein	 particles	 composed	 primarily	 of	cholesterol	 and	
responsible	for	transporting	cholesterol	to	tissues.
Monounsaturated fatty acids 	the	fatty	acids	that	contain	 one	double	 carbon–  
carbon	bond.
Phospholipids 	differ	from	triglycerides	 in	that	at	least	one	fatty	acid	is	replaced	 with	a	
compound	containing	phosphorus.
Polyunsaturated fatty acids 	the	fatty	acids	that	contain	 two	or	more	carbon-	carbon	
double	bonds.
Saturated fatty acids 	the	fatty	acids	that	contain	all	single	carbon-	 carbon	bonds.
Sterols	a	group	of	lipids	that	consist	of	a	multiple-	 ring	structure,	such	as	cholesterol.
Trans- fatty acids 	the	unsaturated	 fatty	acids	formed	during	certain	types	of	the	food	
process	in	which	some	hydrogens	 are	transferred	 to	opposite	 sides	of	the	carbon–
carbon	double	bond	that	results	in	a	straight	shape.
Triglycerides 	molecules	 in	which	three	fatty	acids	are	attached	 to	a	backbone	 of	the	
three-	carbon	molecule	glycerol.
Unsaturated fatty acids 	the	fatty	acids	that	contain	some	carbons	that	are	not	saturated	
with	hydrogen.
Very low- density lipoproteins 	lipoprotein	 particles	 rich	in	triglycerides	 and	very	low	in	
density.

4 Macronutrients
Proteins
Contents
Key terms 63
Introduction 64
Amino acids: the building blocks of protein 64
Protein structure 65
Quality of proteins 68
•	 Complete	and	incomplete	proteins	 68
•	 Protein	complementation	 68
Food sources of proteins 69
Major roles of protein in the body 70
•	 Structure	 70
•	 Enzymes	 71
•	 Hormones	 71
•	 Movement	 71
•	 Transport	 71
•	 Regulation	of	fluid	balance	 72
•	 Regulation	of	acid–base	balance	 72
•	 Protection	as	antibodies	 72
•	 As	a	source	of	energy	during	times	of	need	 73
Summary	 73
Case	study	 74
Review	questions	 74
Suggested	reading	 75
Glossary 75
Key terms
•	 Complementary	proteins	 •	 Complete	proteins
•	 Deamination	 •	 Denaturation
•	 Edema	 •	 Essential 	or	indispensable 	amino	acids
•	 Incomplete	proteins	 •	 Lacto-	 ovo	vegetarians
•	 Lacto	vegetarians	 •	 Limiting	amino	acids
•	 Nonessential 	or	dispensable 	amino	acids	 •	 Osmosis
•	 Peptide	bond	 •	 Transamination
•	 Vegans

64  Macronutrients: proteins
Introduction
Protein	is	a	macronutrient	 which	is	distinguished	 from	carbohydrates	 and	lipids	by	the	
fact that it contains the element nitrogen. It is made from amino acids that are joined 
together	 by	peptide	bonds.	Plants	combine	 nitrogen	 from	the	soil	with	carbon	and	other	
elements	 to	form	amino	acids.	They	then	link	these	amino	acids	together	 to	make	pro-
teins.	Some	proteins	 are	very	simple,	containing	 only	a	few	amino	acids,	whereas	 others	
contain	thousands.	 However,	 most	proteins	 are	of	intermediate	 size,	containing	 250	to	
300	amino	acids.	Protein	in	the	diet	provides	 the	raw	material	 to	make	all	the	various	
types	of	proteins	 that	the	body	needs.	Thousands	 of	substances	 in	the	body	are	made	of	
proteins.	 Aside	from	water,	proteins	 form	the	major	part	of	lean	body	mass,	totaling	
about	15	to	20	percent	of	body	weight.	These	body	proteins	 provide	an	important	 struc-
tural	and	regulatory	 function.	 In	some	circumstances	 protein	may	be	used	for	energy,	
providing	4	 kcal	per	gram.
Amino acids: the building blocks of protein
The	numerous	 proteins	 in	the	body	are	very	chemically	 diverse	due	to	which	amino	
acids	they	contain	and	the	ways	they	are	linked	together.	 Each	different	 protein	contains	
a specific number of amino acids in specific proportions that are bound together in a 
specific	order.	Although	 at	least	100	amino	acids	are	found	in	nature,	the	body	uses	only	
about	20	different	 amino	acids	to	make	its	own	proteins.	 Each	amino	acid	consists	of	
four	common	 components:	 (1)	a	central	carbon	bonded	 to	hydrogen,	 (2)	an	amino	
group	(-NH2)	containing	 nitrogen,	 (3)	a	carboxylic	 acid	group	(-COOH),	 and	(4)	a	
unique	side-	chain	group	that	varies	in	length	and	structure.	 Different	 side	chains	give	
specific	properties	to	individual	amino	acids.	 Figure	4.1	shows	a	“generic”	amino	acid.
	 The	side-	chain	groups	on	amino	acids	vary	from	one	amino	acid	to	the	next,	making	
proteins	 more	complex	 than	either	carbohydrates	 or	lipids.	A	polysaccharide	 such	as	
starch	may	be	several	thousand	 units	long,	but	every	unit	is	a	glucose	molecule	 just	like	
all	the	others.	A	protein,	 on	the	other	hand,	is	made	up	of	about	20	different	 amino	
acids,	each	with	a	different	 side-	chain	group.	Each	amino	acid	is	defined	by	its	side-	chain	
group,	which	may	be	as	simple	as	a	single	hydrogen	 atom	or	as	complex	 as	an	organic	
ring	structure.	 Appendix	 B	presents	 the	chemical	 structure	 for	each	of	the	20	amino	
acids.	Some	side-	chain	groups	also	contain	sulfur	atoms.	These	subtle	differences	 in	the	
side-	chain	groups	give	each	amino	acid	a	unique	chemical	 and	physical	 feature.	 For	
example,	 some	of	the	side-	chain	groups	are	negatively	 charged,	 some	are	positively	
charged,	 and	some	don’t	have	a	charge	at	all.	The	charges	associated	 with	side-	chain	
groups help determine the final shape and function of the protein.
	 Of	the	20	amino	acids	commonly	 found	in	protein,	 9	cannot	be	made	by	the	adult	
human	body.	These	amino	acids	are	called	 essential or indispensable amino acids ,	and	
Amino group Carbo xylic group
Central carbonH2NCR
HCOOHSide chain
Figure 4.1 	The	main	components	of	an	amino	acid

Macronutrients: proteins   65
they	must	be	consumed	 in	the	diet	(Table 	4.1). 	If	the	diet	is	deficient	 in	one	or	more	of	
these	amino	acids,	new	proteins	 containing	 them	cannot	be	made	without	 breaking	
down	other	body	proteins	 to	provide	them.	The	11	nonessential or dispensable amino 
acids	can	be	made	by	the	human	body	and	are	not	required	 in	the	diet.	When	a	nones-
sential	amino	acid	needed	for	protein	synthesis	 is	absent	from	the	diet,	it	can	be	made	
in the body. Most of the nonessential amino acids can be made by the process of 
transamination 	in	which	the	amino	group	of	one	amino	acid	is	transferred	 to	a	carbon-	
containing molecule to form a different amino acid.
	 Some	 amino	acids	are	conditionally	 essential,	 meaning	 that	they	are	only	essential	
under	certain	conditions.	 For	example,	 the	conditionally	 essential	 amino	acid	tyrosine	
can be made in the body from the essential amino acid phenylalanine. If phenylalanine 
is	in	short	supply,	tyrosine	 cannot	be	made	and	becomes	 essential	 in	the	diet.	Likewise,	
the	amino	acid	cysteine	is	only	essential	 when	the	essential	 amino	acid	methionine	 is	in	
short	supply.	There	are	other	factors	that	can	influence	 the	essentiality	 of	amino	acids.	
For	example,	 some	infants,	especially	 those	born	prematurely,	 cannot	make	several	of	
the	nonessential	 amino	acids	such	as	cystine	and	glutamine.	 Thus,	these	amino	acids	
must	be	obtained	 from	the	diet	during	this	period	of	the	life	span.	In	addition,	 certain	
diseases	 can	cause	a	nonessential	 amino	acid	to	become	 essential.	 For	example,	 with	a	
genetic	disorder	 called	phenylketonuria	 (PKU),	the	body	loses	its	ability	to	convert	phe-
nylalanine	 into	tyrosine	 due	to	a	lack	of	enzymes.	 Therefore,	 tyrosine	 must	be	supple-
mented	via	diet	in	patients	with	PKU.
Protein structure
Condensation	 reactions	 connect	 amino	acids,	just	as	they	combine	 monosaccharides 	
to	form	disaccharides, 	and	fatty	acids	with	glycerol	to	form	triglycerides. 	Amino	acids	
are	linked	together	 to	form	proteins	 by	a	unique	type	of	chemical	 bond	called	a	
peptide bond 	(Figure	4.2).	The 	bond	is	formed	between	 the	acid	group	of	one	amino	
acid	and	the	nitrogen	 atom	of	the	next	amino	acid.	Two	amino	acids	bond	together	 to	
form	a	dipeptide.	 By	another	 such	reaction,	 a	third	amino	acid	can	be	added	to	the	
chain	to	form	a	tripeptide.	 As	additional	 amino	acids	join	the	chain,	a	polypeptide	 is	
formed.	 Most	proteins	 are	a	few	dozen	to	several	hundred	 amino	acids	long.	A	protein	
is	made	of	one	or	more	polypeptide	 chains	folded	into	a	complex	 three-	dimensional 	
structure.
Table 4.1	Essential	and	nonessential	amino	acids
Essential amino acids Nonessential amino acids
Histidine Alanine
Isoleucine Arginine*
Leucine Asparagine
Lysine Aspartic acid
Methionine Cysteine*
Phenylalanine Glutamic acid
Threonine Glutamine*
Tryptophan Glycine*
Valine Proline*
SerineTyrosine*
Note
* These	amino	acids	are	also	classified	as	conditionally	essential.

66  Macronutrients: proteins
	 Considering	 the	level	of	folding	complexity	 of	polypeptide	 chains,	protein	can	be	
further	divided	into	four	distinct	aspects:	 (1)	primary	 structure,	 (2)	secondary	 struc-
ture,	(3)	tertiary	structure,	 and	(4)	quaternary	 structure	 (Figure 	4.3). 	The	primary	
structure	 concerns	 only	the	amino	acid	sequence	 of	the	peptide	 chains.	The	primary	
structure represents the basic identity of the protein. Alterations in the primary struc -
ture	may	be	caused	by	inherited	 genetic	variations.	 A	disease	called	sickle	cell	anemia	
is	such	an	example	 in	which	the	shape	of	hemoglobin	 is	alerted	because	 of	a	genetic	
“error.”	 The	secondary	 structure	 of	peptide	 chains	results	from	weak	chemic	bonds,	
called	hydrogen	 bonds,	that	twist	and	fold	the	primary	 structure.	 Such	chemical	 inter-
action is due to the fact that the backbone of the peptide chain is made of amino and 
carboxylic	 acid	groups	with	positive	 and	negative	 charges.	 A	normally	 functional 	
protein	always	exists	in	a	tertiary	structure	 that	is	three-	dimensional	 and	contains	 addi-
tional	folding	of	the	peptide	 chain.	Such	additional	 folding	is	brought	 up	by	interac-
tions	between	the	side	chains.	The	quaternary 	structure 	is	referred	to	a	protein	that	is	
made	from	more	than	one	polypeptide	 chain.	Hemoglobin	 is	an	example	 of	a	protein	
with	quaternary	 structure	 and	is	made	from	four	separate	 polypeptide	 chains,	each	of	
which	combines	 with	an	iron-	containing	 unit	called	a	heme.	Heme	is	the	portion	 of	
the	hemoglobin	 molecule	 that	actually	holds	the	oxygen	and	carbon	dioxide	gases	as	
they are transported in the blood.
	 A	protein’s	 final	shape	determines	 its	ability	to	carry	out	its	function.	 However,	 there	
are	many	conditions	 that	can	alter	a	protein’s	 shape.	One	example	 is	denaturation. 
Denaturation	 occurs	when	a	protein	unfolds	in	unusual	 ways.	Compounds	 and	con-
ditions	that	cause	denaturation	 include	heat,	acid,	detergents,	 base,	salts,	alcohol,	 and	
heavy	metals	such	as	mercury.	 A	familiar	example	 of	protein	denaturation	 occurs	when	
an	egg	white	is	heated;	proteins	 unfold,	and	the	egg	white	changes	 from	thin	and	clear	
liquid	to	a	cloudy	solid.	Another	 example	 is	mercury	 which	can	disrupt	bonds	between	
side	chains	and	thus	tertiary	structure.	 Such	denaturating	 action	explains	 why	mercury	
exposure	 can	cause	numbness,	 hearing	 loss,	visual	problems,	 difficulty	 walking,	 and	
severe	emotional	and	cognitive	impairments.H
Amino
Peptide bond
DipeptideC C H2N
H2OOHO
R1H
C
R2
H
C H2N
R2N
HO
CH
C
R1Acid
Amino Amino Acid AcidAminoH2N C
OHO
C
OHOAcid
Figure 4.2 		Condensation	 of	two	amino	acids	to	form	a	dipeptide	 that	contains	 a	peptide	
bond

3ULPDU\SURWHLQVWUXFWXUH
VHTXHQFHRIDFKDLQRIDPLQRDFLGV
6HFRQGDU\SURWHLQVWUXFWXUH
K\GURJHQERQGLQJRIWKHSHSWLGHEDFNERQHFDXVHVWKHDPLQRDFLGVWRIROGLQWRDUHSHDWLQJSDWWHUQ
7HUWLDU\SURWHLQVWUXFWXUH
WKUHHGLPHQVLRQDOIROGLQJ
SDWWHUQRIDSURWHLQGXHWRVLGH
FKDLQLQWHUDFWLRQV
4XDWHUQDU\SURWHLQVWUXFWXUH
SURWHLQFRQVLVWLQJRIPRUHWKDQRQHDPLQRDFLGFKDLQ$PLQRDFLGV
3OHDWHGVKHHW
3OHDWHGVKHHW$OSKDKHOL[
$OSKDKHOL[
Figure 4.3 	Protein	structure	in	primary,	secondary,	tertiary,	and	quaternary	configurations

68  Macronutrients: proteins
Quality of proteins
In	a	typical	day,	most	people	consume	 about	100	grams	of	protein.	 This	is	almost	twice	
their	requirement	 given	that	the	RDA	for	protein	should	be	56	grams	for	a	70-kg	man.	
Most	of	this	protein	comes	from	animal	sources	such	as	meat,	milk,	cheese,	and	eggs	
that	represent	 the	most	concentrated	 sources	of	protein.	 Nuts,	seeds,	and	plants	such	as	
legumes	also	provide	a	good	source	of	protein.	Legumes	are	special	in	that	they	are	asso -
ciated	with	bacteria	 that	can	take	nitrogen	 from	the	air	and	incorporate	 it	into	protein.	
Generally	 speaking,	 foods	of	animal	origin	tend	to	have	larger	amounts	 of	certain	essen-
tial	amino	acids	than	do	plant-	derived	foods,	and	therefore	 are	considered	 more	effi-
cient in terms of being used to make body proteins.
Complete and incomplete proteins
As	you	might	expect,	human	tissue	composition	 resembles	 animal	tissue	more	than	it	
does	plant	tissue.	The	similarities	 enable	us	to	use	proteins	 from	any	single	animal	
source	more	efficiently 	to	support	human	growth	and	maintenance 	than	we	do	those	
from	any	single	plant	source.	For	this	reason,	animal	proteins	 are	generally	 considered 	
high-	quality	or	complete proteins ,	which	contain	the	nine	essential 	amino	acids	we	
need	in	sufficient	 amounts.	 Plant	sources	 of	protein,	 except	for	soybean,	 are	con-
sidered	low-	quality	or	incomplete proteins 	because	 they	lack	adequate	 amounts	 of	one	
or	more	essential	 amino	acids.	Proteins	 from	plants	have	more	diverse	amino	acid	pat-
terns	that	are	quite	different	 from	those	found	in	the	body.	Hence,	a	single	plant	
protein	source,	such	as	corn	or	wheat	alone,	cannot	easily	support	 body	growth	and	
maintenance.	 Corn	protein	has	low	amounts	 of	lysine	and	tryptophan,	 whereas	 wheat	
protein	lacks	lysine.	The	amino	acids	that	are	missing	or	in	a	low	quantity	 are	called	
limiting amino acids .
	 When	 only	low-	quality	protein	foods	are	consumed,	 consumption	 of	essential	 amino	
acids	may	be	insufficient.	 Therefore,	 when	compared	 to	high-	quality	proteins,	 a	greater	
amount	 of	low-	quality	protein	is	needed	to	meet	the	needs	of	protein	synthesis.	 More-
over,	once	any	of	the	nine	essential	 amino	acids	in	the	plant	protein	we	have	eaten	is	
used	up,	further	protein	synthesis	 becomes	 impossible.	 Because	 the	depletion	 of	just	one	
of	the	essential	 amino	acids	prevents	 protein	synthesis,	 the	process	illustrates	 the	all-	or-
none	principle:	 either	all	essential	 amino	acids	are	available	 or	none	can	be	used.	The	
remaining	 or	unused	amino	acids	would	then	be	used	for	energy	needs,	or	converted	
into carbohydrate or fat.
Protein complementation
In	general,	 plant	proteins	 are	of	lower	quality	than	animal	proteins,	 and	plants	also	offer	
less	protein	per	unit	of	weight.	For	this	reason,	many	vegetarians	 improve	 the	quality	of	
proteins	 in	their	diets	by	combining	 plant	protein	foods	that	are	different	 but	have	com-
plementary	 amino	acid	patterns.	 When	two	or	more	proteins	 combine	 to	compensate	
for	deficiencies	 in	essential	 amino	acid	content	in	each	protein,	 the	proteins	 are	called	
complementary proteins .	Protein	complementation	 allows	diets	containing	 a	variety	of	
plant	protein	 sources	 to	provide	 all	the	essential	 amino	acids.	This	is	particularly	
important	 for	vegetarians	 and	 vegans	because	 they	have	a	restricted	 intake	of	animal	
product.	 For	example,	 lacto- ovo vegetarians 	eat	no	animal	flesh	but	do	eat	eggs	and	
dairy	products	 such	as	milk	and	cheese,	whereas	 lacto vegetarians 	are	those	who	avoid	
animal	flesh	and	eggs	but	do	consume	 dairy	products.	 Vegans	consume	 the	most	restric-
tive	vegetarian	diets.

Macronutrients: proteins   69
	 By	eating	plant	proteins	 with	complementary	 amino	acid	patterns,	 essential	 amino	
acid	requirements	 can	be	met	without	consuming	 any	animal	proteins.	 The	amino	acids	
that	are	most	often	limited	in	plant	proteins	 are	lysine,	methionine,	 cysteine,	 and	tryp-
tophan.	As	a	general	rule,	legumes	 are	deficient	 in	methionine	 and	cysteine	but	high	in	
lysine.	Grains,	nuts,	and	seeds	are	deficient	 in	lysine	but	high	in	methionine	 and	
cysteine.	 Corn	is	deficient	 in	lysine	and	tryptophan	 but	is	a	good	source	of	methionine.	
Therefore,	 consuming	 rice,	which	is	limited	in	amine	acid	lysine	but	high	in	methionine	
and	cysteine,	 with	beans,	which	are	high	in	lysine	but	limited	in	methionine	 and	
cysteine,	provides	enough	of	all	the	essential	amino	acids	needed	by	the	body.
	 The	mixed	diets	that	we	normally	 consume	 generally	 provide	 high-	quality	protein	
because	 of	protein	 complementation.	 Therefore,	 healthy	 adults	should	have	little	
concern about balancing foods to yield the proteins needed to obtain enough of all nine 
essential	 amino	acids.	Even	on	the	plant-	based	diets,	complementary	 proteins	 need	not	
be	consumed	 at	the	same	meal	by	adults.	Meeting	 amino	acid	needs	over	the	course	of	a	
day is a reasonable goal because there is a ready supply of amino acids from those 
present	in	the	body	cells	and	in	the	blood	(Craig	and	Mangels	 2009,	American	 Dietetic	
Association	 2009).	The	following	 are	more	food	choices	that	provide	significant	 amounts	
of complementary proteins:
•	 Barley	bean	vegetable	soup
•	 Beans	and	rice	or	tortillas
•	 Black	bean	and	corn	salad
•	 Brown	rice	and	black	bean	burritos
•	 Brown	rice	with	lentils	and	apricots
•	 Corn	and	black-	 eyed	pea	salad
•	 Grilled	cheese	sandwich
•	 Lasagna
•	 Macaroni	and	cheese
•	 Pasta	with	lentils	and	kale
•	 Peanut	butter	and	oatmeal	with	some	berries	added
•	 Peanut	butter	sandwich
•	 Pizza
•	 Quinoa	lentil	salad
•	 Tacos	filled	with	beans	or	lentils
•	 Whole-	 grain	cereal	with	soy	milk
•	 Yogurt	with	nuts.
Food sources of proteins
In	a	typical	day,	most	people	consume	 about	100	grams	of	protein.	 This	is	almost	twice	
their	requirement	 given	that	the	RDA	for	protein	should	be	56	grams	for	a	70-kg	man	
based	on	a	formula	 of	0.8	grams	of	protein	per	kg	of	body	weight.	Most	of	this	protein	
comes	from	animal	sources	such	as	meat,	milk,	cheese,	and	eggs	that	represent	 the	most	
concentrated	 sources	of	protein.	 One	egg	or	an	ounce	of	meat	contains	 about	7	grams	
of	protein,	 and	a	cup	of	milk	contains	 8	grams.	Plants	also	provide	a	good	source	of	
protein	(Figure 	4.4). 	Legumes,	 such	as	lentils,	soybeans,	 peanuts,	 peas,	kidney	beans,	
and	black	beans,	provide	6	to	10	grams	of	protein	per	half-	cup	serving.	Nuts	and	seeds	
are	also	good	sources	of	protein,	 providing	 about	5	to	10	grams	per	quarter-	cup	serving.	
As	noted	earlier,	foods	of	animal	origin	tend	to	contain	 larger	amounts	 of	essential	
amino	acids	than	do	plant-	derived	foods.	However,	 a	diet	including	 plant	proteins	 from	
a	variety	of	sources	will	easily	meet	most	people’s	needs.

70  Macronutrients: proteins
Major roles of protein in the body
The	body	uses	amino	acids	to	synthesize	 the	hundreds	 of	thousands	 of	proteins	 it	needs.	
Whenever	 the	body	is	growing,	 repairing,	 or	replacing	 tissues,	proteins	 are	involved.	
Sometimes	 their	role	is	to	become	part	of	structure;	 other	times	it	is	to	facilitate	 or	regu-
late.	We	rely	on	foods	to	supply	the	amino	acids	needed	 to	form	these	proteins.	
However,	 only	when	we	also	eat	enough	carbohydrates	 and	fat	can	food	proteins	 be	used	
most	efficiently.	 If	we	fail	to	consume	 enough	calories	to	meet	our	needs,	some	amino	
acids	from	proteins	 are	broken	down	to	produce	 energy	instead	of	being	available	 to	
replenish and build body proteins.
Structure
Proteins	 provide	 most	of	the	structural	 materials	 in	the	body.	For	example,	 they	are	
important	 constituents	 of	muscle,	skin,	bone,	hair,	and	finger-	nails.	An	example	 of	a	
structural	 protein	is	collagen,	 which	forms	a	supporting	 matrix	in	bones,	teeth,	liga-
ments,	and	tendons.	 Proteins	 are	also	an	integral	part	of	the	cell	membrane,	 the	cyto-
plasm,	and	the	organelles.	 The	synthesis	 of	structural	 proteins	 such	as	those	in	skeletal	
muscle	is	especially	 important	 during	periods	of	active	growth	and	development	 such	as	
infancy	and	adolescence.	 If	a	person’s	 diet	is	low	in	protein	for	a	long	period,	the	pro-
cesses	of	protein	synthesis	 will	slow	down.	Over	time,	skeletal	muscles	 and	vital	organs	
such	as	the	heart	and	liver	will	decrease	in	size	or	volume.





3URWHLQJUDPV
6XJDUWHDVSRRQ2OLYHRLOWHDVSRRQ3DVWDRXQFH%DQDQDPHG2UDQJHPHG
:KLWHULFHFXS3RWDWRPHG%URFFROLFXS&RUQFXS
:KROHZKHDWEUHDGVOLFHV(JJPHG
&KHGGDUFKHHVHRXQFH2DWPHDOFXS3HDQXWVRXQFH
.LGQH\EHDQVFXSPLONFXS<RJXUWFXS7RIXFXS
6DOPRQRXQFHV7XQDRXQFHV%HHIRXQFHV
&KLFNHQRXQFHV
Figure 4.4  Food sources of protein

Macronutrients: proteins 		71
	 Most	 vital	body	proteins	 are	in	a	constant	 state	of	breakdown,	 rebuilding,	 and	
repair.	For	example,	 the	intestinal	 tract	lining	is	constantly	 sloughed	 off.	The	diges-
tive	tract	treats	sloughed	 cells	just	like	food	particles,	 digesting	 them	and	absorbing 	
their	amino	acids.	In	fact,	most	of	the	amino	acids	released	 throughout	 the	body	may	
be	recycled	to	become	part	of	the	pool	of	amino	acids	available 	for	synthesis 	of	future	
proteins.	 Overall,	 protein	 turnover	 is	a	process	 by	which	a	cell	can	respond	 to	its	
changing 	environment 	by	producing 	proteins	that	are	needed	and	degrading 	proteins	
that are not needed. It is estimated that an adult makes and degrades about an 
average	 of	250	grams	of	protein	 each	day.	Relative	 to	70	to	100	grams	of	protein	
typically	 consumed,	 recycled	 amino	acids	make	an	important	 contribution	 to	total	
protein metabolism.
Enzymes
Enzymes	 are	protein	molecules	 that	speed	up	the	metabolic	 reactions	 of	the	body	but	
are	not	used	up	or	destroyed	 in	these	reactions.	 All	the	reactions	 involved	 in	the	produc-
tion	of	energy	and	the	synthesis	 and	breakdown	 of	carbohydrates,	 lipids,	proteins,	 and	
other	molecules	 are	expedited	 by	enzymes.	 Each	reaction	 requires	 a	specific	enzyme	
with	a	specific	structure.	 If	the	structure	 of	the	enzyme	molecule	 is	altered,	it	can	no	
longer function in the reaction it is designed to accelerate.
Hormones
Hormones	 are	chemical	 messengers	 secreted	 into	the	blood	by	one	tissue	or	organ	and	
act	on	target	cells	in	other	parts	of	the	body.	Their	primary	 function	 is	to	respond	 to	
changes that challenge the body by eliciting the appropriate responses to restore the 
body’s	homeostasis	 or	normal	conditions.	 Some	hormones	 are	made	of	lipids;	others	are	
made	of	amino	acids	and	so	are	classified	 as	peptide	or	protein	hormones.	 For	example,	
insulin and glucagon are protein hormones.
Movement
Some	proteins	 give	cells	and	organisms	 the	ability	to	move,	contract,	 and	change	shape.	
Actin	and	myosin	are	proteins	 that	function	 in	the	contraction	 of	muscles.	 The	two	pro-
teins slide past each other to shorten the muscle and thus cause contraction. A similar 
process causes contraction in the heart muscle and in the muscles that cause constric -
tion	in	the	digestive	 tract,	blood-	vessels,	and	body	glands.	Nearly	half	of	the	body’s	
protein	is	present	in	skeletal	muscle,	and	adequate	 protein	intake	is	required	 to	form	
and maintain muscle mass throughout life.
Transport
Proteins	 transport	 substances	 throughout	 the	body	and	into	and	out	of	the	individual 	
cells.	Transport	 proteins	 in	the	blood	carry	substances	 from	one	organ	to	another.	 For	
example,	 hemoglobin,	 the	protein	in	the	red	blood	cells,	binds	oxygen	in	the	lungs	
and	transports	 it	to	other	organs	of	the	body.	The	proteins	 in	lipoproteins	 are	needed	
to	transport 	lipids	from	the	intestines 	and	liver	to	body	cells.	Some	vitamins, 	such	as	
vitamin	A,	must	be	bound	to	a	specific	protein	to	be	transported	 in	the	blood.	When	
protein	is	deficient,	 the	nutrients	 that	require	protein	for	transport	 cannot	travel	to	
the	cells.	For	this	reason	a	protein	deficiency	 can	cause	a	vitamin	A	deficiency,	 even	if	

72		 Macronutrients: proteins
consumption	 of	vitamin	A	from	diet	is	adequate.	 At	the	cellular	level,	transport	 pro-
teins	present	in	cell	membranes 	help	move	substances 	such	as	glucose	and	amino	
acids	across	the	cell	membrane.	 For	example,	 transport	 proteins	 in	the	intestinal 	
mucosa are necessary to absorb glucose and amino acids from intestinal lumen into 
the mucosal cells.
Regulation of fluid balance
Most	of	the	body	is	made	of	water.	This	important	 fluid	is	found	both	inside	of	cells	
(intracellular	 space)	and	outside	of	cells	(extracellular	 space).	In	addition,	 the	extracel-
lular	space	can	be	further	divided	into	that	found	in	blood	and	lymph	vessels	(intravas -
cular	fluid)	and	between	 cells	(interstitial	 fluid).	The	amount	of	fluid	in	these	spaces	is	
highly	regulated	 by	a	variety	of	means,	some	of	which	involve	proteins.	 For	example,	 a	
protein	called	albumin	 is	present	in	the	blood	in	relatively	 high	concentrations.	 As	the	
blood	circulates	 through	 the	capillaries,	 fluid	and	nutrients	 in	the	blood	get	pushed	out	
into	the	interstitial	 space	in	part	because	 of	blood	pressure	 and	the	narrowness	 of	the	
capillaries.	 However,	 albumin	 remains	 in	the	blood-	vessels,	gradually	 increasing	 in	con-
centration	 as	more	fluid	is	lost.	When	the	albumin	 concentration	 reaches	a	certain	level	
in	the	blood,	albumin	 draws	some	of	the	interstitial	 fluid	back	into	the	blood-	vessels	via	
osmosis,	partially	 counteracting	 the	force	of	blood	pressure.	 Osmosis	 is	the	movement	
of	water	molecules	 across	a	partially	 permeable	 membrane	 from	an	area	of	high	water	
potential	 (low	solute	concentration)	 to	an	area	of	low	water	potential	 (high	solute	
concentration).
	 With	 an	inadequate	 consumption	 of	protein,	 the	concentration	 of	proteins	 in	the	
blood	drops	below	normal.	 Excessive	 fluid	then	builds	up	in	the	surrounding	 tissues	
because	the	counteracting	 force	produced	 by	blood	proteins	 is	too	weak	to	pull	enough	
of	the	fluid	back	from	the	tissues	into	the	blood-	vessels.	As	fluids	accumulate	 in	the	
tissues,	the	tissues	swell,	causing	 edema.	Edema	is	associated	 with	a	variety	of	medical	
problems,	 so	its	cause	must	be	identified.	 An	important	 step	in	diagnosing	 the	cause	is	
to measure the concentration of blood proteins such as albumin.
Regulation of acid–base balance
The	chemical	 reactions	 of	metabolism	 require	a	specific	level	of	acidity,	or	pH,	to	func-
tion	properly.	 In	the	gastrointestinal	 tract,	acidity	levels	vary	widely.	The	digestive	
enzyme	pepsin	works	best	in	the	acid	environment	 of	the	stomach,	 whereas	 the	pancre-
atic	enzymes	 operate	most	effectively	 in	the	more	neutral	environment	 of	the	small	intes-
tine.	Inside	the	body,	large	fluctuations	 in	pH	can	prevent	 metabolic	 reactions	 from	
proceeding.	 Proteins	 both	within	cells	and	in	the	blood	help	prevent	major	changes	 in	
acidity.	For	example,	 the	protein	hemoglobin	 in	red	blood	cells	helps	neutralize	 acid	
produced	 from	cellular	respiration,	 so	that	the	pH	of	blood	can	always	be	maintained	
relatively	 neutrally.	 Recall	that	components	 of	amino	acids	including	 the	side	chains	
carry	charges.	 In	other	words,	they	can	accept	and	donate	charged	 hydrogen	 ions	easily.	
When	hydrogen	 ion	concentration	 in	the	blood	is	too	high,	proteins	 can	bind	excess	
hydrogen	 ions.	Conversely,	 proteins	 can	release	hydrogen	 ions	into	the	blood	when	the	
hydrogen	concentration	is	too	low.
Protection as antibodies
Protein	can	also	defend	the	body	against	disease.	A	virus,	whether	 it	is	one	that	causes	
flu,	smallpox,	 measles,	 or	the	common	 cold,	enters	the	cells	and	multiplies	 there.	One	

Macronutrients: proteins   73
virus	may	produce	 over	100	replicas	of	itself	within	an	hour	or	so.	Each	replica	can	then	
burst	out	and	invade	different	 cells.	Such	a	process	of	virus	multiplication	 will	ultimately	
cause	diseases.	 Fortunately,	 when	the	body	detects	these	invading	 agents,	it	manufac -
tures	antibodies,	 giant	protein	molecules	 designed	 specifically	 to	combat	them.	Each	
antibody	 has	a	unique	structure	 that	allows	it	to	attach	to	a	specific	invader.	 When	an	
antibody	 binds	to	an	invading	 substance,	 the	production	 of	more	antibodies	 is	stimu-
lated,	and	other	parts	of	the	immune	 system	are	activated	 to	help	destroy	the	invaders.	
In	a	normal,	healthy	individual,	 most	diseases	never	have	a	chance	to	get	started	because	
of	antibodies.	 Without	 sufficient	 protein,	 however,	 the	body	cannot	maintain	 an	ade-
quate	level	of	antibodies	to	resist	diseases.
As a source of energy during times of need
Some	amino	acids	may	also	be	used	for	glucose	synthesis	 and	energy	production	 as	well	
as	energy	storage	as	fats.	Together,	 these	processes	 allow	the	body	to	(1)	maintain	 an	
appropriate	 level	of	blood	glucose,	 and	(2)	store	excess	energy	for	later	use	when	dietary	
energy	intake	is	more	than	adequate.	 When	the	body’s	available	 supply	of	energy	is	low,	
it	first	turns	to	glycogen	 and	fatty	acids.	However,	 when	glycogen	 is	depleted	 and	fatty	
acid	reserves	 reduce,	the	body	then	dismantles	 its	tissue	proteins	 and	converts	 some	
amino	acids	into	glucose	via	gluconeogenesis.	 In	addition,	 many	cells	can	harvest	the	
energy	stored	in	amino	acids	by	oxidizing	 them	directly.	 Thus,	over	time,	energy	depri-
vation	always	causes	wasting	of	lean	body	tissue	in	addition	 to	fat	loss.	An	adequate	
supply of carbohydrates and fats spares amino acids from being used for energy and 
allows	them	to	perform	their	unique	roles.
	 During	 the	times	of	glucose	and	energy	excess,	the	body	redirects	 the	flow	of	amine	
acids	away	from	gluconeogenesis	 and	ATP-	producing	 pathways.	 To	do	this,	the	nitrogen-	
containing	 group	of	each	amino	acid	is	removed	 and	converted	 into	ammonia	 in	the	
liver	via	a	process	called	 deamination .	The	remaining	 carbon	skeleton	 is	then	converted	
into	lipids	and	stored	in	adipose	 tissue.	Thus,	eating	extra	protein	during	times	of	
glucose	and	energy	sufficiency	contributes	to	fat	stores,	not	to	muscle	growth.
Summary
•	 Proteins	 differ	chemically	 from	carbohydrates	 and	lipids	because	they	contain	nitro-
gen	in	addition	 to	sulfur,	phosphorus,	 and	iron.	Body	proteins	 are	made	from	indi-
vidual	amino	acids	that	are	bonded	together.	 The	sequential	 order	of	amino	acids	
determines	the	protein’s	ultimate	shape	and	function.
•	 Of	the	20	amino	acids	used	by	the	body,	9	must	be	consumed	 from	foods	(essential)	
and	the	rest	can	be	synthesized	in	the	body	(nonessential).
•	 High-	 quality	(complete)	 protein	foods	contain	ample	amounts	 of	all	nine	essential	
amino	acids.	They	are	mainly	obtained	 from	animal	sources.	 Low-	quality	(incom-
plete)	protein	foods	lack	sufficient	 amounts	 of	one	or	more	essential	 amino	acids.	
This	is	typical	of	plant	foods,	but	different	 types	of	plant	foods	eaten	together	 often	
complement	each	other’s	amino	acid	deficits.
•	 Proteins	 form	important	 body	components,	 such	as	muscle,	connective	 tissue,	trans-
port	proteins	 in	the	blood,	enzymes,	 and	some	hormones.	 The	carbon	chains	of	
proteins may be used to produce glucose or fat if necessary.

74  Macronutrients: proteins
Review questions
1	 Describe	 the	structure	 of	amino	acids.	How	does	the	chemical	 structure	 of	proteins	
differ from the structure of carbohydrates and lipids?
2	 What	are	essential	 amino	acids?	Why	is	it	important	 for	essential	 amino	acids	lost	from	
the body to be replaced in the diet?Case study: choosing a healthy vegetarian diet
Catlin	is	26	years	old	and	weighs	143	lbs.	She	decided	 to	stop	eating	meat	a	year	ago.	
Now	that	she	is	studying	 protein	in	her	nutrition	 class,	she	has	become	concerned	 that	
her	vegetarian	 diet	isn’t	meeting	 her	needs.	She	recorded	 her	food	intake	for	one	day	
and	then	used	an	online	database	 to	calculate	 her	protein	intake.	Her	analysis	is	shown	
in	Table	4.2.
Table 4.2	Analysis	of	Catlin’s	food	intake
Food Serving Protein (g)
Breakfast
Nuts 1/4	cup 3.6
Low-fat	milk 1/2	cup 4
Orange	juice 3/4	cup 0.8
Toast,	wheat 2	pieces 5
Peanut butter 1	tablespoon 4
Coffee 1	cup 0
Lunch
Lentil	soup 1/2	cup 4
Rice 1	cup 6
Banana 1	medium 1
Apple juice 1	cup 0
Dinner
Green	salad	w/dressing 1	cup 1
Rice 1	tablespoon 6
Curried	potatoes	and	
chickpeas1/2	cup 5.5
Yogurt	plain 1/2	cup 6
Poori	(fried	bread) 1	piece 2.5
Ice cream 1/2	cup 2
Total 51.4
Questions
•	 Does	 Catlin	get	enough	protein?	 Compare	 her	intake	with	the	RDA	for	someone	
her	age	and	size.
•	 Define	the	term	“complementary	proteins.”
•	 Does	 her	diet	contain	complementary	 proteins?	 List	protein	sources	in	her	diet	and	
explain	how	they	complement	each	other.
•	 If	Catlin	decides	to	become	a	vegan,	what	could	she	substitute	 for	her	dairy	foods	in	
order to meet her protein needs?

Macronutrients: proteins   75
3	 Define	terms	“peptide	bone,”	“deamination,”	“transamination,”	and	“nitrogen	balance.”
4	 Describe	 the	concept	 of	complementary	 proteins.	 How	can	vegetarians	 meet	their	
protein	needs	without	eating	meat?
5	 Briefly	 describe	 the	organization	 of	proteins.	 How	can	this	organization	 be	altered	or	
damaged?	What	might	be	a	consequence	of	damaged	protein	organization?
6	 Describe	the	roles	played	by	protein	in	the	body.
Suggested reading
1	 Burke	 LM,	Collier	GR,	Hargreaves	 M	(1998)	Glycemic	 index	–	a	new	tool	in	sport	
nutrition? International Journal of Sport Nutrition ,	8:	401–415.
 The glycemic index provides a way to rank foods rich in carbohydrate according to the glucose 
response following their intake. This review article discusses specifically how the concept of the gly -
cemic index may be applied to training and sports competitions.
2	 Coyle	 EF	(2000)	Physical	 activity	as	a	metabolic	 stressor.	 American Journal of Clinical 
Nutrition,	72(2	Suppl):	512S–5120S.
 Physical activity provides stimuli that promote specific and varied adaptations according to the 
type, intensity, and duration of the exercise performed. This article talks about how diet or supple -
mentation can further enhance the body’s responses and adaptations to these positive stimuli.
3	 Jenkins	 DJ,	Kendall	 CW,	Augustin	 LS,	Franceschi	 S,	Hamidi	M,	Marchie	 A,	Jenkins	
AL,	Axelsen	M	(2002)	Glycemic	 index:	overview	 of	implications	 in	health	and	disease.	
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition ,	76:	266S–273S.
 This article provides a solid review of literature on the glycemic index and its relevance to those 
chronic Western diseases associated with central obesity and insulin resistance. The authors 
believe that the glycemic index concept is an extension of the fiber hypothesis, suggesting that fiber 
consumption reduces the rate of nutrient influx from the gut.
Glossary
Complementary proteins  proteins that can be combined to compensate for deficien -
cies in essential amino acid content in each protein.
Complete proteins  proteins that contain all the nine essential amino acids.
Deamination 	a	process	in	which	the	nitrogen-	 containing	 group	of	an	amino	acid	is	
removed	and	converted	into	ammonia	in	the	liver.
Denaturation 	a	process	in	which	proteins	 or	nucleic	acids	unfold	to	lose	their	tertiary	
and secondary structure.
Edema	swelling	of	tissue	caused	by	fluid	accumulation	in	the	interstitial	space.
Essential or indispensable amino acids  amino acids that cannot be made by the body 
and must be consumed in the diet.
Incomplete proteins 	proteins	 that	lack	adequate	 amounts	 of	one	or	more	essential	
amino acids.
Lacto- ovo vegetarians 	those	who	eat	no	animal	flesh	but	do	eat	eggs	and	dairy	prod-
ucts such as milk and cheese.
Lacto vegetarians 	those	who	avoid	animal	flesh	and	eggs	but	do	consume	dairy	products.
Limiting amino acids 	the	amino	acids	that	are	missing	or	in	a	low	quantity.
Nonessential or dispensable amino acids  amino acids that can be made by the human 
body	and	are	not	required	in	the	diet.
Osmosis	the	movement	 of	water	molecules	 across	a	partially	 permeable	 membrane	
from	an	area	of	high	water	potential	 (low	solute	concentration)	 to	an	area	of	low	
water	potential	(high	solute	concentration).

76  Macronutrients: proteins
Peptide bond 	the	chemical	 bond	formed	between	 the	acid	group	of	one	amino	acid	
and	the	nitrogen	atom	of	the	next	amino	acid.
Transamination 	a	process	in	which	the	amino	group	from	one	amino	acid	is	trans-
ported	to	a	carbon-	 containing	molecule	to	form	a	different	amino	acid.
Vegans	those	who	consume	the	most	restrictive	vegetarian	diets.

5 Micronutrients
Vitamins
Contents
Key terms 78
Overview 78
•	 What	are	vitamins?	 78
•	 Classification	of	vitamins	 79
•	 Vitamins	in	the	diet	 79
•	 Vitamin	toxicity	 79
•	 Preserving	vitamins	in	foods	 80
•	 Vitamins	in	the	digestive	tract	 80
•	 Vitamins	in	the	body	 80
Fat-	soluble	vitamins	 82
•	 Vitamin	A	 82
•	 Vitamin	D	 85
•	 Vitamin	E	 88
•	 Vitamin	K	 91
Water-	soluble	vitamins	 93
•	 Thiamin	(vitamin	B1)	 93
•	 Riboflavin	(vitamin	B2)	 94
•	 Niacin	(vitamin	B3)	 96
•	 Pantothenic	acid	(vitamin	B5)	 97
•	 Biotin	(vitamin	B7)	 97
•	 Vitamin	B6	 98
•	 Folate	 99
•	 Vitamin	B12	 100
•	 Vitamin	C	(ascorbic	acid)	 101
Summary	 102
Case	study	 103
Review	questions	 103
Suggested	reading	 104
Glossary	 104

78  Micronutrients: vitamins
Key terms
•	 Bioavailability	 •	 Collagen
•	 Enrichment	 •	 Fortification
•	 Free	radical	 •	 Macrocytic	anemia
•	 Microcytic	hypochromic	anemia	 •	 Osteoclasts
•	 Osteomalacia	 •	 Osteoporosis
•	 Pernicious	anemia	 •	 Provitamins
•	 Reactive	oxygen	species	 •	 Retinoids
•	 Rickets	 •	 Vitamins
•	 Vitamin	toxicity
Overview
The	effective	 regulation	 of	all	metabolic	 processes	 requires	 a	delicate	blending	 of	food	
nutrients	 in	the	watery	medium	 of	the	cell.	Of	special	significance	 in	this	regard	are	
micronutrients,	 the	small	quantities	 of	vitamins	 and	minerals	 that	facilitate	 energy	
transfer	and	tissue	synthesis.	 The	term	“vitamin”	 was	coined	in	1912	by	Polish	biochem -
ist	Casimir	Funk,	who	originally	 used	the	word	“vitamine”	to	refer	to	substances	 which	
are	amines	that	contain	an	amino	group	and	are	vital	to	life.	Today,	we	know	that	vita-
mins	are	vital	to	life,	but	they	are	not	all	amines,	so	the	“e”	has	been	dropped,	 and	the	
term	“vitamin”	 refers	to	all	these	substances.	 Initially,	 the	vitamins	 were	named	alphabet -
ically	in	approximately	 the	order	in	which	they	were	identified:	 A,	B,	C,	D,	and	E.	The	B	
vitamins	 were	first	thought	 to	be	one	chemical	 form	but	were	later	found	to	be	many	dif-
ferent	subgroups,	 so	the	alphabetical	 name	was	broken	down	by	numbers	 that	reflect	
the	chronological	 order.	For	example,	 thiamin	was	the	first	B	vitamin	identified	 in	1937,	
and	vitamin	B12	was	the	last	structure	 that	was	characterized	 in	1948.	Currently,	 vitamins	
B6	and	B12	are	the	only	ones	that	are	still	commonly	 referred	 to	by	their	numbers.	
Thiamin,	 riboflavin,	 and	niacin	were	originally	 referred	 to	as	vitamins	 B1,	B2,	and	B3,	
respectively,	but	they	now	often	stand	on	their	own	names.
What are vitamins?
Vitamins 	are	organic	 compounds	 that	are	essential	 in	the	diet	in	small	amounts	 to	
promote	 and	regulate	 body	functions	 necessary	 for	growth,	reproduction,	 and	main-
tenance	 of	the	body.	Vitamins	 are	generally	 essential	 in	human	diets	because	 they	
cannot	be	synthesized	 in	the	body	or	because	 their	synthesis	 can	be	decreased	 by	
environmental	 factors.	Notable	 exceptions	 to	having	a	strict	dietary	need	for	a	vitamin	
are	vitamin	A,	which	we	can	synthesize	 from	certain	pigments	 in	plants,	vitamin	D,	syn-
thesized	 in	the	body	if	the	skin	is	exposed	 to	adequate	 sunlight,	 niacin,	synthesized	 from	
the	amino	acid	tryptophan,	 and	vitamin	K	and	biotin,	synthesized	 to	some	extent	by	bac-
teria	in	the	intestinal	tract.
	 To	be	qualified	 as	a	vitamin,	a	compound	 must	meet	the	following	 two	criteria	to	be	an	
essential	 nutrient:	 (1)	the	body	is	unable	to	synthesize	 enough	of	the	compound	 to	main -
tain	health;	and	(2)	absence	of	the	compound 	from	the	diet	for	a	certain	period	produces	
deficiency	 symptoms	 that,	if	caught	in	time,	are	quickly	cured	when	the	substance	 is	resup -
plied.	A	substance	 does	not	qualify	as	a	vitamin	merely	because	the	body	cannot	make	it.	
Evidence	must	suggest	that	health	declines	when	a	substance	is	not	consumed.
	 Vitamins	differ	from	carbohydrates,	lipids,	and	proteins	in	the	following	ways:
•	 Structure:	 vitamins	 are	individual	 units;	they	are	not	linked	together	 as	are	the	
molecules	glucose,	fatty	acids,	and	amino	acids.

Micronutrients: vitamins 		79
•	 Function:	 vitamins	 do	not	provide	energy	when	broken	down.	They	assist	enzymes	
that	catalyze	energy-	 yielding	pathways	involving	carbohydrates,	lipids,	and	proteins.
•	 Food 	contents: 	the	amounts 	of	vitamins	we	ingest	daily	from	foods	and	amounts	
we	require	 are	measured	 in	micrograms	 (µg)	or	milligrams	 (mg),	rather	than	
grams	(g).
Classification of vitamins
Vitamins	 have	traditionally	 been	grouped	 based	on	their	solubility	 in	water	or	fat.	This	
chemical	 characteristic	 allows	generalizations	 to	be	made	about	how	they	are	absorbed,	
transported,	 excreted,	 and	stored	in	the	body.	The	water-	soluble	vitamins	 include	the	B	
vitamins	and	vitamin	C.	The	fat-	 soluble	vitamins	include	vitamins	A,	D,	E,	and	K.
Vitamins in the diet
Almost	all	foods	contain	some	vitamins. 	Generally 	speaking, 	grains	are	good	sources	
of	thiamin,	 niacin,	riboflavin,	 pantothenic	 acid,	and	biotin.	Meat	and	fish	are	good	
sources	of	all	the	B	vitamins.	 Milk	provides	 riboflavin	 and	vitamins	 A	and	D;	leafy	
greens	provide	folate,	vitamins	 A,	E,	and	K;	citrus	fruit	provides	 vitamin	C;	and	veget -
able	oils	are	high	in	vitamin	 E.	The	vitamin	 content,	 however,	 can	be	affected	 by	
cooking,	 storage,	 and	processing.	 The	vitamins	 naturally	 found	in	foods	can	be	washed	
away	during	preparation	 or	destroyed	 by	cooking.	 Exposure	 to	light	and	oxygen	can	
also	cause	vitamin	loss.	Food	processing	 can	both	cause	nutrient	 losses	and	add	nutri -
ents	to	food.	The	addition	 of	nutrients	 to	foods	is	called	 fortification .	The	added	
nutrients	 may	or	may	not	have	been	present	in	the	original	 food.	 Enrichment 	is	a	type	
of	fortification	 in	which	nutrients	 are	added	for	the	purpose	 of	restoring	 those	lost	in	
processing	 to	the	same	or	a	higher	level	than	originally	 present.	 For	example,	 the	
milling	of	wholegrain 	wheat	to	make	white	flour	results	in	the	loss	of	the	nutrients	
contained	 in	the	bran	and	germ.	Enrichment	 adds	back	the	vitamins	 thiamin,	 niacin,	
and	riboflavin,	 and	the	mineral	 iron.	Foods	that	are	staples	of	a	diet	are	often	fortified	
to	prevent	 vitamin	or	mineral	 deficiencies	 and	to	promote	 health	in	the	population. 	
For	example, 	milk	is	fortified	with	vitamin	D	to	promote 	bone	health,	and	grains	are	
fortified	 with	folic	acid	to	reduce	the	incidence	 of	birth	defects.	Some	foods	are	forti-
fied	because	 they	are	used	in	place	of	other	foods	that	are	good	sources	of	an	essential 	
nutrient.	 For	example,	 margarine	 is	fortified	 with	vitamin	A	because	 it	is	often	used	
instead	of	butter,	which	naturally	contains	vitamin	A.
Vitamin toxicity
Vitamin toxicity 	is	a	condition	 in	which	a	person	develops	 symptoms	 as	side	effects	from	
taking	massive	doses	of	vitamins.	 For	most	water-	soluble	vitamins,	 when	they	are	con-
sumed	excessively,	 the	kidneys	 can	efficiently	 filter	the	excess	from	the	blood,	and	
excrete	them	via	urine.	However,	 some	water-	soluble	vitamins,	 such	as	niacin,	Vitamins	
B6	and	B12,	and	vitamin	C	can	cause	toxic	effects	when	consumed	 in	large	amounts.	 For	
example,	 when	taken	in	large	doses,	vitamin	C	can	be	at	risk	for	developing	 kidney	and	
gall-	bladder	 stones,	niacin	can	cause	flushing	 of	the	skin,	nausea,	diarrhea,	 and	liver	
damage,	 and	vitamins	 B6	and	B12	can	produce	 nerve	problems.	 In	contrast	 to	the	water-	
soluble	vitamins,	 fat-	soluble	vitamins	 are	not	readily	excreted,	 so	some	can	easily	accu -
mulate	in	the	body	and	cause	toxic	effects.	Among	those	fat-	soluble	vitamins,	 toxicity	of	
vitamin	A	is	the	most	frequently	 observed.	 The	toxic	effects	associated	 with	each	of	the	
fat-	soluble	vitamins	are	discussed	in	later	sections	of	this	chapter.

80		 Micronutrients: vitamins
Preserving vitamins in foods
Substantial	 amounts	 of	vitamins	 can	be	lost	from	the	time	a	fruit	or	vegetable	 is	picked	
until	it	is	eaten.	The	water-	soluble	vitamins,	 particularly	 thiamin,	 vitamin	C,	and	folate,	
can	be	destroyed	 with	improper	 storage	and	excessive	 cooking.	 Heat,	light,	exposure	 to	
the	air,	cooking	 in	water,	and	alkalinity	 are	all	factors	that	can	destroy	vitamins.	 The	
sooner	a	food	is	eaten	after	harvest,	the	less	chance	of	nutrient	loss.
	 In	general,	 if	the	food	is	not	eaten	within	a	few	days,	freezing	 is	the	best	preservation	
method	to	retain	nutrients.	 Fruits	and	vegetables	 are	often	frozen	immediately	 after	har-
vesting,	so	frozen	vegetables	 and	fruits	are	often	as	nutrient-	 rich	as	freshly	picked	ones.	
As	part	of	the	freezing	 process,	 vegetables	 are	quickly	blanched	 in	boiling	water.	This	
destroys	 the	enzymes	 that	would	otherwise	 degrade	 the	vitamins.	 Table 	5.1 	provides	
some	tips	to	aid	in	preventing	vitamin	loss.
Vitamins in the digestive tract
About	40	to	90	percent	of	the	vitamins	 in	foods	are	absorbed,	 primarily	 in	the	small	intes -
tine.	The	composition 	of	the	diet	and	conditions 	in	the	body,	however, 	may	influence	
bioavailability ,	a	general	term	that	refers	to	how	well	a	nutrient	 can	be	absorbed	 and	used	
by	the	body.	The	bioavailability 	of	a	specific	nutrient	may	also	be	affected	by	other	foods	
and	nutrients	in	the	diet.	For	example,	the	amount	of	fat	in	the	diet	affects	the	bioavailabil -
ity	of	fat-	soluble	vitamins	 because	they	are	absorbed	 along	with	dietary	fat.	In	other	words,	
fat-	soluble	vitamins	 are	poorly	absorbed	 when	the	diet	is	very	low	in	fat.	The	transport 	
mechanism 	by	which	vitamins	are	absorbed 	also	determines 	the	amount	that	enters	the	
body.	The	fat-	soluble	vitamins	are	easily	absorbed 	by	simple	diffusion. 	Many	of	the	water-	
soluble	vitamins,	 however,	 depend	on	energy-	requiring	 transport	 systems	or	binding	mol-
ecules	in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	in	order	to	be	absorbed.	 For	example,	 thiamin	 and	
vitamin	C	are	absorbed 	by	energy-	requiring 	transport 	systems,	riboflavin 	and	niacin	require	
carrier	proteins	 for	absorption,	 and	vitamin	B12	must	be	bound	to	a	protein	produced	 in	
the	stomach	 before	it	can	be	absorbed	 in	the	intestine.	 The	quantity	 of	vitamins	 in	foods	
can	be	easily	determined	 using	an	analytic	approach.	 However,	 determining	 the	bioavaila -
bility	of	a	vitamin	is	a	more	complex	 task	because	it	depends	 on	many	factors,	including 	
(1)	efficiency	 of	digestion	 and	time	of	transit	through	 the	GI	tract;	(2)	previous	 nutrient	
intake	and	nutritional	 status;	(3)	other	foods	consumed	 at	the	same	time;	(4)	methods	 of	
preparation	 (e.g.,	raw,	cooked,	or	processed);	 and	(5)	source	of	the	nutrients	 (e.g.,	syn-
thetic,	fortified,	or	naturally	occurring).
	 Some	 of	the	vitamins	 are	available	 from	foods	in	inactive	forms	known	as	vitamin	pre-
cursors,	or	provitamins .	Once	inside	the	body,	the	precursor	 is	converted	 into	an	active	
form	of	the	vitamin.	 Thus,	in	measuring	 a	person’s	 vitamin	intake,	it	is	important	 to	
count	both	the	amount	of	the	active	vitamin	and	the	potential	 amount	available	 from	its	
precursors.
Vitamins in the body
Once	absorbed	 into	the	blood,	vitamins	 must	be	transported	 to	the	cells.	Despite	their	
solubility	 in	water,	most	of	the	water-	soluble	vitamins	 are	bound	to	blood	proteins	 for	
transport.	 Fat-	soluble	vitamins	 must	be	incorporated	 into	lipoproteins	 or	bound	to	trans -
port	proteins	 in	order	to	be	transported	 in	the	aqueous	 environment	 of	the	blood.	For	
example,	 vitamins	 A,	D,	E,	and	K	are	all	incorporated	 into	chylomicrons	 for	transport	
from	the	intestine.	 The	amount	of	vitamins	 delivered	 to	the	tissues	depends	 on	the	avail-
ability	of	the	transport	protein.

Table 5.1	Tips	for	preventing	nutrient	loss
What to do Why
Keep	fruits	and	vegetables	cool Chilling	will	reduce	the	degradation	of	vitamins	by	enzymes
Refrigerate	fruits	and	vegetables	that	have	been	
put	in	moisture-proof,	airtight	containersThis	will	help	keep	all	nutrients	and	minimize	oxidation	of	vitamins
Trim,	peel,	and	cut	fruits	and	vegetables	
minimallyOxygen	breaks	down	vitamins	faster	when	more	surface	is	exposed,	and	outer	leaves	of	most	
vegetables	have	higher	values	of	vitamins	and	minerals	than	inner	tender	leaves	and/or	stems
Rinse	fruits	and	vegetables	before	cutting This	will	prevent	nutrients	from	being	washed	away
Use	microwave	oven	or	steam	vegetables	in	a	
small	amount	of	waterMore	nutrients	are	retained	when	there	is	less	contact	with	water
Add	vegetables	after	water	has	come	to	the	boil More	nutrients	are	retained	with	shorter	cooking	time
Minimize	reheating	food Prolonged	reheating	reduces	vitamin	content
Do	not	add	baking	soda	to	vegetables	to	enhance	
the	green	colorAlkalinity	destroys	most	vitamins,	especially	vitamin	D	and	thiamin
Do	not	add	fats	to	vegetables	during	cooking	if	
you	plan	to	discard	the	liquidFat-soluble	vitamins	will	be	lost	in	discarded	fat

82		 Micronutrients: vitamins
	 The	body	has	the	ability	to	store	and	excrete	vitamins.	 This	helps	regulate	 and	
maintain	 an	adequate	 amount	 of	vitamins	 present	in	the	body.	Except	for	vitamin	K,	
the	fat-	soluble	vitamins	 are	not	readily	excreted	 from	the	body.	In	contrast,	 with	the	
exception	 of	vitamin	B12,	excess	amounts	 of	the	water-	soluble	vitamins	 are	generally 	
lost	from	the	body	rapidly,	 partly	because	 the	water	in	cells	dissolves	 these	vitamins	
and	excretes	 them	out	of	the	body	via	the	kidneys.	 Because	 of	the	limited	storage	of	
many	vitamins,	 they	should	be	consumed	 in	the	diet	regularly,	 although	 an	occasional 	
lapse	in	the	intake	of	even	water-	soluble	vitamins	generally 	causes	no	harm.	Symptoms	
of	a	vitamin	 deficiency	 occur	only	when	a	vitamin	 is	lacking	 in	the	diet	for	an	
extended	 period	and	body	stores	are	essentially	 exhausted.	 For	example,	 an	average	
person	must	consume	 no	vitamin	C	for	about	30	days	before	developing	 the	first	symp -
toms	of	deficiency	of	this	vitamin.
Fat- soluble vitamins
Fat-	soluble	vitamins	 are	typically	 absorbed	 in	the	small	intestine.	 This	requires	 the	pres-
ence	of	other	lipids	as	well	as	the	action	of	bile.	Fat-	soluble	vitamins	 are	circulated	 away	
from	the	small	intestine	 in	the	lymph	via	chylomicrons,	 which	are	large	lipoprotein	 par-
ticles	that	consist	primarily	 of	triglycerides,	 and	eventually	 enter	the	blood.	In	the	blood,	
fat-	soluble	 vitamins	 are	circulated	 as	components	 of	very	low-	density	lipoproteins	
(VLDL)	 or	bound	to	transport	 proteins.	 Because	 most	of	the	fat-	soluble	vitamins	 are	
stored	in	the	body,	people	can	eat	less	than	their	daily	need	for	days,	weeks,	or	even	
months	or	years	without	ill-	effects.	In	fact,	consuming	 large	amounts	 of	them,	especially	
in	supplement	 form,	can	result	in	toxicities,	 sometimes	 with	serious	consequences.	 Most	
fat-	soluble	vitamins	 are	involved	 in	processes	 such	as	regulation	 of	gene	expression,	 cell	
maturation,	 and	stabilization	 of	free	radicals.	 Table 	5.2 	gives	an	overview	 of	the	func -
tions	and	sources	as	well	as	deficiency	 diseases,	 and	toxicity	symptoms	 associated	 with	
each	of	the	four	fat-	 soluble	vitamins.
Vitamin A
Vitamin	 A	is	found	pre-	formed	and	in	precursor	 or	provitamin	 forms	in	our	diet.	Pre-	
formed	vitamin	A	compounds	 are	known	as	retinoids ,	which	include	retinol,	retinoic	
acid,	and	retinal.	They	are	found	in	animal	foods	such	as	liver,	fish,	egg	yolks,	and	dairy	
products	 (Table 	5.3). 	Margarine	 and	non-	fat	or	reduced-	 fat	milk	are	fortified	 with	
vitamin	A	because	they	are	often	consumed	 in	place	of	butter	and	whole	milk,	which	are	
good	sources	of	this	vitamin.	 Plant	sources	of	vitamin	A	include	carrots,	cantaloupe,	 apri-
cots,	mangoes,	 and	sweet	potatoes	 that	contain	yellow-	orange	pigments	 called	caroten -
oids.	Beta-	carotene,	 the	most	potent	precursor,	 is	found	in	carrots,	squash,	and	other	
red	and	yellow	vegetables	and	fruits	as	well	as	in	leafy	greens	where	the	yellow	pigment	is	
masked	by	green	chlorophyll.	 Other	carotenoids	 that	provide	some	provitamin	 A	activity	
include	alpha-	carotene	 found	in	leafy	green	vegetables,	 carrots,	and	squash,	and	beta-	
cryptoxanthin	 found	in	corn,	green	peppers,	 and	lemons.	Lutein,	lycopene,	 and	zeaxan -
thin	are	carotenoids	 with	no	vitamin	A	activity.	To	help	consumers	 identify	food	sources	
of	vitamin	A,	labels	on	packaged	 foods	must	include	the	vitamin	A	content	as	a	percent -
age	of	the	daily	value.	All	forms	of	vitamin	A	in	the	diet	are	fairly	stable	when	heated	but	
may	be	destroyed	by	exposure	to	light	and	oxygen.
	 Vitamin	 A	has	many	roles,	including	 aiding	vision,	growth,	and	reproduction.	 In	addi-
tion,	it	is	needed	for	maintaining	 a	healthy	immune	 system	and	building	 strong	bones.	
Vitamin	 A	is	involved	 in	the	perception	 of	light.	In	the	eye,	the	retinal	form	of	the	
vitamin	 combines	 with	the	protein	 opsin	to	form	the	visual	pigment	 rhodopsin.	

Table 5.2	Functions,	sources,	deficiency	diseases,	and	toxicity	symptoms	for	fat-soluble	vitamins
Vitamin Major function Deficiency Toxicity Food sources
Vitamin	A •	Growth
•	Reproduction
•	Vision
•	Cell	differentiation
•	Immune	function
•	Bone	health•	Night	blindness
•	Xerophthalmia
•	Hyperkeratosis•	Hypercarotenemia
•	Blurred	vision
•	Birth	defects
•	Liver	damage
•	Osteoporosis	•	Liver
•	Pumpkin
•	Sweet	potato
•	Carrot
Vitamin	D •	Calcium	homeostasis
•	Bone	health
•	Cell	differentiation•	Rickets
•	Osteomalacia
•	Osteoporosis•	Hypercalcemia •	Fish
•	Mushrooms
•	Fortified	milk
•	Fortified	cereals
Vitamin	E •	Antioxidant
•	Cell	membranes
•	Eye	health
•	Heart	health•	Neuromuscular	problems
•	Hemolytic	anemia•	Hemorrhage •	Tomatoes
•	Nuts	and	seeds
•	Spinach
•	Fortified	cereals
Vitamin K •	Coenzyme
•	Blood	clotting
•	Bone	health
•	Tooth	health•	Bleeding •	No	known	effects •	Kale
•	Spinach
•	Broccoli
•	Brussels	sprouts

84		 Micronutrients: vitamins
Rhodopsin	 helps	transform	 the	energy	from	light	into	a	nerve	impulse	that	is	sent	to	the	
brain.	This	nerve	impulse	allows	us	to	see.	The	visual	cycle	begins	when	light	passes	into	
the	eye	and	strikes	rhodopsin.	 Each	time	this	cycle	occurs,	some	retinal	is	lost	and	must	
be	replaced	 by	retinol	from	the	blood.	The	retinol	is	then	converted	 into	retinal	in	the	
eye.	When	vitamin	A	is	deficient,	 there	is	a	delay	in	the	regeneration	 of	rhodopsin,	
which	causes	difficulty	 in	adapting	 to	dim	light	after	experiencing	 a	bright	light,	a	con-
dition	called	night	blindness.	 Night	blindness	 is	one	of	the	first	and	more	easily	reversi -
ble	symptoms	of	vitamin	A	deficiency.
	 Vitamin	 A	affects	cell	differentiation	 through	 its	effect	on	gene	expression.	 In	order	
to	affect	gene	expression,	 the	retinoic	acid	form	of	vitamin	A	enters	specific	target	cells.	
Inside	the	nucleus	of	these	target	cells,	retinoic	acid	binds	to	protein	receptors	 to	form	a	
retinoic	acid–protein	 receptor	 complex.	 This	complex	 then	binds	to	regulatory	 regions	
of	DNA,	which	then	changes	 the	amount	of	messenger	 RNA	that	is	made	by	the	gene.	
This	increases	 protein	 synthesis,	 thereby	 affecting	 various	 cellular	 functions.	 For	
example,	 vitamin	A	turns	on	a	gene	that	makes	an	enzyme	in	liver	cells,	which	enables	
the	liver	to	make	glucose	by	gluconeogenesis.
	 The	ability	of	vitamin	A	to	regulate	 the	growth	and	differentiation	 of	cells	makes	it	
essential	 throughout	 life	for	normal	reproduction,	 growth,	and	immune	 function.	 In	
reproduction,	 vitamin	A	is	believed	 to	play	a	role	during	early	embryonic	 development	
by	directing	 cells	to	form	the	shapes	and	patterns	 needed	for	a	completely	 formed	
organism.	 Poor	overall	growth	is	an	early	sign	of	vitamin	A	deficiency	 in	children.	
Vitamin	 A	affects	the	activity	of	cells	that	form	and	break	down	bone,	and	a	deficiency	
early	in	life	can	cause	abnormal	 jawbone	 growth,	resulting	 in	crooked	 teeth	and	poor	
dental	health.	Via	its	role	in	regulating	 cell	differentiation,	 Vitamin	 A	is	also	important	
for	producing	 the	different	 types	of	immune	 cells	and	for	stimulating	 the	activity	of	spe-
cific	immune	cells.
	 The	recommended	 daily	amount	(RDA)	for	vitamin	A	is	set	at	900	µg	per	day	for	men	
and	700	µg	per	day	for	women.	 These	RDA	values	are	based	on	the	amount	needed	to	Table 5.3	Food	sources	of	vitamin	A
Food item Amount Vitamin A content ( µg)
Fried	beef	liver 1	ounce 3025
Sweet	potato 1/2	cup 958
Cooked	carrots 1/2	cup 885
Spinach 2/3	cup 494
Mango 1	med 402
Squash 2/3	cup 244
Eggs 2	large 185
2%	milk 1	cup 175
Broccoli 1	cup 138
Apricots 3	med 137
Cheddar	cheese 1	ounce 78
Margarine 1	teaspoon 52
Salmon 3	ounces 45
Butter 1	teaspoon 45
Raw	tomato 1/2	cup 40
Orange 1	med 25
Chicken 3	ounces 10
Note
RDA:	900	 µg/day	for	men	and	700	 µg/day	for	women.

Micronutrients: vitamins 		85
maintain	 normal	body	stores.	There	is	no	recommendation	 to	increase	 intake	above	this	
level	for	older	adults.	The	RDA	is	increased	 in	pregnancy	 to	account	 for	the	vitamin	A	
that	is	transferred	 to	the	fetus	and	during	lactation	 to	account	 for	the	vitamin	A	lost	in	
milk.	Consumption	 of	vitamin	A	should	not	exceed	3000	µg	per	day.	Above	this	upper	
limit,	other	possible	 side	effects	include	an	increased	 risk	of	hip	fracture	and	poor	preg -
nancy	outcomes.	 The	consumption	 of	large	amounts	 of	vitamin	A-	yielding	 carotenoids	
does	not	cause	toxic	effects.	This	is	because	(1)	they	are	less	well	absorbed,	 and	(2)	their	
rate	of	conversion	into	vitamin	A	is	relatively	slow	and	regulated.
Vitamin D
Vitamin	 D	has	an	interesting	 and	unique	place	among	the	nutrients.	 Although	 this	
vitamin	is	found	in	food,	the	major	source	of	vitamin	D	is	exposure	 to	sunlight.	 For	most	
individuals,	 exposure	 to	ultraviolet	 rays	from	sunlight	 provides	 at	least	80	percent	 of	
their	vitamin	D	needs.	For	this	reason,	vitamin	D	is	also	known	as	sunshine	 vitamin,	 and	
many	nutritional	 scientists	 consider	 it	to	be	a	conditionally	 essential	 nutrient.	 Egg	yolks,	
butter,	whole	milk,	fatty	fish,	fish	oil,	and	mushrooms	 are	some	of	the	few	foods	that	
naturally	 contain	vitamin	D	(Table 	5.4). 	However,	 most	liquid	and	dried	milk	products	
as	well	as	breakfast	 cereals	are	fortified	 with	vitamin	D,	and	most	dietary	vitamin	D	comes	
from	these	foods.	Vitamin	D	is	relatively	 stable	and	is	not	destroyed	 during	food	prepara -
tion,	processing,	and	storage.
	 Two	major	forms	of	vitamin	D	that	are	important	 to	humans	 are	vitamin	D2,	or	ergo -
calciferol,	 and	vitamin	D3,	or	cholecalciferol.	 Vitamin	D2	is	made	naturally	 by	plants,	and	
vitamin	D3	is	made	naturally	 by	the	body	when	the	skin	is	exposed	 to	ultraviolet	 radi-
ation	in	sunlight.	 Both	forms	are	converted	 into	25-hydroxyvitamin	 D	in	the	liver.	
25-hydroxyvitamin	 D	then	travels	through	 the	blood	to	the	kidneys,	 where	it	is	further	
modified	 to	1,25-dihydroxyvitamin	 D,	or	calcitriol,	 the	active	form	of	vitamin	D	in	the	
body.	The	most	accurate	 method	of	evaluating	 a	person’s	 vitamin	D	status	is	to	measure	
the	level	of	25-hydroxyvitamin	D	in	the	blood.
Table 5.4	Food	sources	of	vitamin	D
Food item Amount Vitamin D content (µg)
Baked	herring	 1	ounce 44.4
Smoked	eel 1	ounce 25.5
Salmon 3	ounces 6.0
Sardine	 1	ounce 3.4
2%	milk 1	cup 2.5
1%	milk 1	cup 2.5
Eggs 2	large 1.3
Total	cereal 3/4	cup 1.0
Soy	milk 1	cup 1.0
Margarine 1	teaspoon 0.65
Chicken 3	ounces 0.4
Beef	liver 2	ounces 0.4
Cheddar	cheese 1.5	ounces 0.25
Butter 1	teaspoon 0.15
Notes
The	adequate	 intake	(AI)	is	5	µg	per	day	for	people	under	age	50	and	
increase	 two	to	three	times	for	older	adults.	An	RDA	could	not	be	set	for	
vitamin	D	because	 the	amount	 produced	 by	sunlight	 exposure	 is	too	vari-
able	between	individuals.

86		 Micronutrients: vitamins
	 Vitamin	 D	plays	an	important	 role	in	regulating	 calcium	concentrations	 in	the	blood.	
This	requires	 several	organs,	including	 the	small	intestine,	 kidneys,	 and	bone.	Vitamin	
D,	or	more	precisely	 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin	 D,	or	calcitrol,	 increases	 calcium	absorption	
in	the	intestine,	 decreases	 calcium	 excretion	 in	urine,	and	facilitates	 the	release	of	
calcium	from	bone.	In	this	context,	 vitamin	D	acts	like	a	hormone	 because	it	is	produced	
in	one	organ,	the	skin,	and	affects	other	organs	such	as	intestine,	 kidneys,	 and	bone.	In	
small	intestine,	 vitamin	D	up-	regulates	 several	genes	that	code	for	proteins	 required	 for	
the	transport	 of	dietary	calcium	into	the	cells.	In	other	words,	vitamin	D	is	involved	 in	
cell	signaling.	 Without	 vitamin	D,	these	proteins	 are	not	made,	and	calcium	absorption	
is	severely	 limited.	In	the	kidneys,	 vitamin	D,	along	with	parathyroid	 hormone,	 causes	
the	kidneys	to	reduce	their	excretion	 of	calcium	 into	urine.	As	a	result,	more	calcium	
remains	 in	the	blood.	Vitamin	 D	also	acts	with	parathyroid	 hormone	 to	stimulate	 bone	
breakdown	 by	osteoclasts 	and	therefore	 the	release	of	calcium	 into	the	blood.	While	
calcium	 in	bones	is	important	 for	their	structure,	 calcium	 in	the	blood	has	additional	
physiological	 functions.	 For	example,	 it	is	needed	for	muscle	contraction,	 blood	pres-
sure	regulation,	 and	the	conduction	 of	neural	impulses.	 Without	 vitamin	D	to	help	
maintain	 adequate	 levels	of	calcium	 in	the	blood,	these	vital	functions	 would	be	
impaired.	 Because	 of	the	close	relationship	 between	 vitamin	D	and	calcium	in	the	body,	
the	US	Food	and	Drug	Administration	 (FDA)	encourages	 vitamin	D	fortification	 of	milk.	
It	must	be	noted	that	regardless	 of	whether	 consumed	 in	the	diet	or	produced	 in	the	
skin,	vitamin	D	must	be	activated	 before	the	body	can	use	it.	Such	an	activation	 process	
occurs	in	the	liver	and	kidneys.	 The	role	played	by	vitamin	D	in	regulating	 calcium	
homeostasis	is	illustrated	in	 Figure	5.1.
	 Vitamin	 D	is	also	involved	 in	a	wide	variety	of	other	functions	 such	as	regulation	 of	
gene	expression	 and	cell	differentiation.	 As	with	vitamin	A,	vitamin	D	moves	into	the	
nucleus	of	the	cell	for	the	subsequent	 stimulation	 of	the	genes	coding	for	specific	pro-
teins.	For	example, 	vitamin	D	causes	immature 	bone	cells	to	become	mature	bone	
Low blood
calcium
Activation of
vitamin D in
kidneysIncreased
parathyroid
hormone
Increased
calcium
absorptionReduced
calcium
excretionIncreased
calcium
release
Figure 5.1 	Vitamin	D	and	its	role	in	the	regulation	of	calcium	homeostasis

Micronutrients: vitamins   87
marrow	cells	and	allows	certain	intestinal 	epithelial 	cells	to	differentiate 	into	mature	
enterocytes.	 As	such,	vitamin	D	plays	a	role	in	maintaining	 bone	health	and	gastrointes -
tinal	function.	 Studies	also	reveal	that	vitamin	D	may	help	prevent	 certain	types	of	
cancers	such	as	those	of	the	colon,	breast,	skin,	and	prostate	 (Bikle	2004,	Gross	2005,	
Harris	and	Go	2004,	Holick	2004,	Walsh	2004).	Early	epidemiologic	 research	 showed	
that	incidence	 and	death	rates	for	certain	cancers	were	lower	among	individuals	 living	
in	southern	 latitudes,	 where	levels	of	sunlight	 exposure	 are	relatively	 high,	than	among	
those	living	in	northern	 latitudes.	 It	is	believed	 that	such	a	protective	 role	of	vitamin	D	
is	accomplished	 through	 the	local	production	 of	1,25-dihydroxyvitamin	 D	in	affected	
tissues	other	than	the	kidneys.	 Researchers	 have	hypothesized	 that	1,25-dihydroxy-
vitamin	D	can	decrease	 the	risk	of	the	cells	being	transformed	 into	a	malignant	 state	by	
controlling	 cell	growth	and	cellular	 differentiation	 (Holick	 and	Chen	2008).	When	
vitamin	 D	is	deficient,	 dietary	calcium	 cannot	be	absorbed	 efficiently.	 As	a	result,	
calcium	 is	not	available	 for	proper	bone	mineralization	 and	abnormalities	 in	bone	
structure	 occur.	Vitamin	 D	deficiency	 in	infants	and	children	 who	are	in	active	stages	of	
growth	may	result	in	inadequate	 bone	mineralization	 –	a	disease	called	 rickets.	
Although	 fortifying	 food	with	vitamin	D	has	essentially	 eliminated	 rickets	in	the	United	
States,	a	significant	 number	 of	cases	have	still	been	reported,	 especially	 in	inner-	city	
children	who	have	a	poor	diet	and	whose	exposure 	to	sunlight	is	limited.	Rickets	is	also	
a	significant	 public	health	concern	 in	other	parts	of	the	world	(Calvo	 et al.	2005).	
Children	 with	rickets	have	slow	growth	and	characteristically	 bowed	legs	or	knocked 	
knees	caused	by	the	bending	 of	weak,	long	bones	that	cannot	support	 the	stress	of	
weight-	bearing	activities,	such	as	walking.
	 In	adults,	the	vitamin	D	deficiency	 disease	comparable	 to	rickets	is	called	 osteo-
malacia.	Because	bone	growth	is	complete	 in	adults,	osteomalacia	 does	not	cause	deform -
ities,	but	bones	are	weakened	 because	 not	enough	 calcium	 is	available	 to	form	the	
mineral	deposits	needed	to	maintain 	healthy	bone.	Symptoms 	of	osteomalacia 	include	
diffuse	bone	pain	and	muscle	weakness.	 People	with	osteomalacia	 are	at	increased	 risk	of	
bone	fracture.	 Osteomalacia	 is	common	 in	adults	with	kidney	failure	because	the	conver -
sion	of	vitamin	D	from	inactive	to	active	forms	is	reduced.	 The	elderly	are	at	risk	for	
vitamin	D	deficiency	 because	the	ability	to	produce	 vitamin	D	in	the	skin	decreases	 with	
age	mainly	because	older	adults	typically	cover	more	of	their	skin	with	clothing	 and	spend	
less	time	in	the	sun	than	their	younger	 counterparts.	 In	addition,	 the	elderly	tend	to	have	
a	lower	intake	of	dairy	products.	 Vitamin	D	deficiency	 can	also	result	in	demineralization 	
of	bone,	ultimately	 leading	to	a	disease	called	 osteoporosis ,	a	condition	 characterized	 by	
a	decrease	 in	bone	density	and	strength,	 resulting	 in	fragile	bones	that	can	be	frequently 	
fractured. 	Osteoporosis 	is	a	serious	chronic	disease,	and	researchers 	estimate	that	more	
than	28	million	Americans	 (1	in	10	people)	 suffer	from	it.	To	help	prevent	both	osteo-
malacia	 and	osteoporosis,	 people	over	50	years	of	age	are	advised	to	get	at	least	15	
minutes	 of	sun	exposure	 each	day	when	possible	 and	to	increase	 their	vitamin	D	intake.	
In	some	cases,	vitamin	D	supplements	 may	be	necessary.	 With	more	emerging	 roles	of	
vitamin	D	being	discovered,	 it	is	now	believed	 that	vitamin	D	deficiency	 can	also	increase	
risk	for	developing	 cardiovascular	 disease,	diabetes,	 muscle	weakness	 and	pain,	cognitive 	
impairment	in	older	adults,	and	certain	types	of	cancer.
	 An	RDA	could	not	be	set	for	vitamin	D	because	 the	amount	 produced	 by	sunlight	
exposure	 is	too	variable	 between	 individuals.	 Consequently,	 a	notation	 of	“adequate	
intake”	or	AI	was	used	to	provide	a	guideline	 for	vitamin	D	intake.	AI	for	adult	males	
and	females	is	set	at	5µg	per	day,	which	may	be	achieved	 by	drinking	 two	cups	of	vitamin	
D-	fortified	 milk.	This	AI	value	was	given	based	on	the	assumption	 that	no	vitamin	D	is	
synthesized	 in	the	skin.	If	there	is	sufficient	 sun	exposure,	 dietary	vitamin	D	is	not	
needed.	 This	assumption	 is	made	because	 of	the	variation	 in	the	extent	to	which	

88  Micronutrients: vitamins
synthesis	 from	sunlight	 meets	the	requirement.	 The	amount	 synthesized	 in	the	skin	is	
affected	 by	skin	pigmentation,	 climate,	 season,	clothing,	 pollution,	 tall	buildings	 that	
block	sunlight,	 and	the	use	of	sunscreens.	 The	AI	of	vitamin	D	for	infants	and	children	
is	the	same	as	for	adults.	This	is	to	allow	sufficient	 vitamin	D	for	bone	development	
during	periods	of	rapid	growth.	Infants	and	children	 who	are	exposed	 to	sunlight	 for	
about	half	an	hour	per	day	do	not	require	supplemental	 vitamin	D.	The	AI	for	adults	50	
to	70	years	of	age	is	10	µg	per	day	to	prevent	bone	loss	during	periods	of	low	sun	expo -
sure.	In	adults	aged	70	or	older,	the	AI	is	15	µg	per	day	to	maintain	 blood	values	of	
vitamin	D	and	to	prevent	skeletal	fracture.	 The	consumption	 of	vitamin	D	should	not	
exceed	50	µg	per	day.	Too	much	vitamin	D	can	result	in	the	over-	absorption	 of	calcium	
which	eventually	 leads	to	calcium	deposits	 in	the	kidneys	and	other	organs,	and	causes	
metabolic	 disturbances	 and	cell	death.	The	most	accurate	 way	to	measure	 how	much	
vitamin	D	is	in	your	body	is	the	25-hydroxyvitamin 	D	blood	test.	A	level	of	20	to	50	ng/mL	
is	considered	 adequate	 for	healthy	people.	A	level	less	than	12	ng/mL	indicates	 vitamin	
D	deficiency.
	 It	is	considered	 that	vitamin	D	deficiency	 is	common	 among	athletic	populations,	
especially	 those	who	reside	in	northern	 latitudes.	 Using	recreational	 athletes	 as	their	
sample	cohort,	Close	 et al.	(2013)	found	that	57	percent	of	them	were	vitamin	D	defi-
cient	at	baseline	 (20.4	±	9.6	ng/mL).	 It	is	recommended	 that	athletes	 with	vitamin	D	
deficiency	 consider	 vitamin	D	supplementation.	 A	recent	review	indicated	 that	blood	
levels	of	25-hydroxyvitamin	 D	greater	than	30	ng/mL	were	associated	 with	reduced	
muscle	pain	and	inflammation	 and	increased	 muscle	protein	 synthesis,	 adenosine	
triphosphate	levels,	strength,	power,	and	physical	performance	(Shuler	 et al.	2012).
Vitamin E
Vitamin	E	refer	to	eight	different	 naturally	 occurring	 compounds	 that	all	have	somewhat	
similar	chemical	 structure.	 Of	these,	α-tocopherol	 is	the	most	biologically	 active.	Vitamin	
E	was	initially	identified	 as	a	fat-	soluble	component	 of	grains	that	was	necessary	 for	
fertility	in	laboratory	 rats.	In	fact,	the	name	tocopherol	 was	derived	from	the	Greek	 tokos 
(childbirth)	 and	 phero	(to	bear)	and	means	“to	bring	forth	offspring.”	 However,	 vitamin	
E	is	now	known	to	have	many	other	functions.	 For	example,	 its	potential	 for	decreasing	
risk	of	chronic	diseases	such	as	heart	disease	has	attracted	much	public	interest.
	 Vitamin	 E	is	widespread	 in	foods.	Much	of	the	vitamin	E	in	the	diet	comes	from	veget -
able	oils	and	products	 made	from	them,	such	as	margarine	 and	salad	dressings	
(Table	5.5). 	Wheat	germ	oil	is	especially	 rich	in	vitamin	E.	Some	dark	green	vegetables	
such	as	broccoli	 and	spinach	contain	vitamin	E	as	well.	Vitamin	E	can	be	easily	destroyed	
during	food	preparation,	 processing,	 and	storage.	Therefore,	 fresh	or	lightly	processed	
foods	are	preferable	 sources.	 Most	processed	 and	convenience	 foods	do	not	contribute	
enough	vitamin	E	to	ensure	an	adequate	 intake.	Absorption	 of	vitamin	E	occurs	in	the	
small	intestine	 and	requires	 the	presence	 of	bile	and	the	synthesis	 of	micelles.	 Vitamin	E	
is	circulated	 in	chylomicrons	 via	the	lymph	and,	in	the	blood,	eventually	 reaches	the	
liver.	In	the	liver,	vitamin	E	is	repackaged	 into	VLDLs	for	further	delivery	in	the	body.	
Excess	vitamin	E	is	stored	mainly	in	adipose	tissue.
	 Like	the	carotenoids,	 vitamin	E	acts	as	an	antioxidant	 preventing	 oxidation	 and	 free 
radical	damage.	 Much	of	the	body’s	vitamin	E	is	associated	 with	various	membranes.	
Recall	that	cell	membranes	 consist	of	a	bilayer	of	phospholipid.	 In	addition,	 many	cell	
organelles,	 such	as	mitochondria	 and	endoplasmic	 reticula,	 are	enclosed	 in	a	phospho-
lipid	bilayer	membrane.	 Maintaining	 these	membranes	 is	vital	to	the	stability	and	func -
tion	of	cells	and	their	organelles,	 and	vitamin	E	plays	a	major	role.	Specifically,	 it	
protects	 the	fatty	acids	in	the	membrane	 from	free	radical-	induced	 oxidative	 damage	

Micronutrients: vitamins 		89
(Figure	5.2). 	This	occurs	because	vitamin	E	can	donate	electrons	 to	free	radicals,	 making	
them	more	stable.	This	protection	 is	especially	 important	 in	cells	that	are	exposed	 to	
oxygen,	such	as	those	in	the	lungs	and	red	blood	cells.	Vitamin	 E	can	also	defend	cells	
from	damage	 by	heavy	metals,	such	as	lead	and	mercury,	 and	toxins,	such	as	carbon	
tetrachloride,	 benzene,	 and	a	variety	of	drugs.	It	also	protects	against	some	environmental 	
pollutants	 such	as	ozone.	The	ability	of	vitamin	E	to	act	as	an	antioxidant	 is	enhanced	 in	
the	presence	 of	other	antioxidant	 micronutrients,	 such	as	vitamin	C	(as	shown	in	Figure	
5.2).	Because	polyunsaturated 	fats	are	particularly 	susceptible 	to	oxidative 	damage,	the	
vitamin	E	requirement	increases	as	polyunsaturated	fat	intake	increases.
	 Because	 antioxidant	 nutrients	 protect	DNA	from	cancer-	causing	free	radical	damage,	
people	are	very	interested	 in	the	possibility	 that	vitamin	E	may	prevent	or	cure	cancer	
risk.	However,	 although	 diets	high	in	vitamin	E	are	associated	 with	decreased	 cancer	
risk,	there	is	little	experimental	 evidence	 that	vitamin	E	by	itself	decreases	 the	risk	of	this	
disease	(Bostick	 et al.	1993,	Graham	 and	McLean	 1992,	Kline	 et al.	2004).	As	an	antioxi -
dant,	vitamin	E	also	helps	protect	LDL	cholesterol	 from	oxidation,	 which	can	lead	to	
atherosclerosis.	 It	may	also	inhibit	an	enzyme	that	allows	the	build-	up	of	atherosclerotic	
plaque	and	increases	 the	synthesis	 of	an	enzyme	needed	to	produce	 eicosinoids	 that	
help	lower	blood	pressure	 and	reduce	blood	clot	formation	 (Steiner	 1999,	Emmert	 and	
Kirchner	 1999).	At	this	moment	 in	time,	experts	do	not	know	whether	 mega-	dose	
vitamin	E	supplements	 taken	by	otherwise	 healthy	people	confer	any	more	protection	
against	cardiovascular	 disease	and	cancer	than	that	achieved	 by	improving	 diet,	perform -
ing	regular	physical	 activity,	not	smoking,	 and	maintaining	 a	healthy	body	weight.	In	Table 5.5	Food	sources	of	vitamin	E
Food item Amount Vitamin E content (mg)
Total	cereal 3/4	cup 22.5
Sunflower	oil 2	tablespoons 16.3
Sunflower	seeds 1	ounce 14.3
Safflower	oil 1	tablespoon 5.9
Canola	oil 1	tablespoon 5.7
Almonds 1	ounce 4.5
Italian	dressing 2	tablespoons 3.1
Mayonnaise 1	tablespoon 3.0
Avocado 1	med 2.7
Peanut	butter 2	tablespoons 2.4
Peanuts 1	ounce 2.1
Kiwi 2	med 1.8
Eggs 2	large 1.6
Salmon 3	ounces 1.2
Margarine 1	teaspoon 1.2
Apricots 2	med 0.8
Chicken 3	ounces 0.7
Carrots,	cooked 1/2	cup 0.6
Wholewheat	bread 2	slices 0.5
Orange 1	med 0.4
Raw	tomato 1/2	cup 0.3
2%	milk 1	cup 0.2
Cheddar	cheese 1.5	ounces 0.2
Oatmeal 1	cup 0.2
Note
RDA:	15	mg/day	for	both	men	and	women.

90		 Micronutrients: vitamins
fact,	the	American	 Health	Association	 considers	 that	it	is	premature	 to	recommend	
vitamin	E	supplements	 to	the	general	public	based	on	current	knowledge	 and	the	failure	
of	major	clinical	trials	to	show	any	benefit.	In	addition,	 the	FDA	has	denied	the	request	
of	the	supplement	 industry	 to	make	a	health	claim	that	vitamin	E	supplements	 reduce	
the	risk	of	cardiovascular	disease	and	cancer.
	 Whether	 athletes	and	physically	 active	individuals	 should	supplement	 vitamin	E	or	other	
antioxidants	 also	remains	open	to	debate.	Moderate-	 to	high-	intensity	 endurance	 training	
can	increase	 antioxidant	 enzyme	activity,	as	well	as	reduce	markers	 for	exercise-	induced	
oxidative	 stress	(Miyazaki	 et al.	2001).	However, 	very	high	training	loads,	such	as	ultra-	
marathons	 and	ironman	 triathlons,	 are	associated	 with	an	acute	reduction	 in	antioxidant 	
capacity	and	an	increase	 in	markers	 of	oxidative	 stress	(Neubauer	 et al.	2008).	A	topic	of	
much	discussion	 in	this	area	is	whether	 the	use	of	supplements	 may	compromise	 natural	
physiological	 processes.	 Some	researchers	 contend	 that	antioxidant	 supplementation	 may	
interfere	with	the	cellular	signaling 	function	of	reactive	oxygen	species	and	therefore	
prevent	the	adaptations	 that	are	necessary	 for	performance	 improvements	 (Gross	 et al.	
2011).	 Reactive oxygen species 	are	chemically	 reactive	molecules	 containing	 oxygen,	such	
as	peroxides	 and	superoxides,	 and	have	important	 roles	in	cell	signaling	 and	homeostasis. 	
For	athletes	and	physically	 active	individuals,	 a	higher	than	normal	antioxidant	 intake	can	
help	maintain	 a	normal	pro-	oxidant/antioxidant	 balance.	 However,	 this	increased	 intake	
should	ideally	be	achieved	 by	using	mixed	and	balanced	 diets	high	in	antioxidants	 rather	
than	by	simply	taking	antioxidant	supplementation	in	large	doses.
Membrane
damage
Free radicals
Neutralized
free radicalNeutralizedfree radical
To neutralize reactive
electron-scavengingmolecules, such as freeradicals, vitamin Edonates one of itselectrons.The antioxidant functionof vitamin E can berestored by  another
antioxidant vitamin, vitamin C,  which gives
an electron back tovitamin E.Vitamin E
Undamaged
membraneVitamin EVitamin E
MinusMinus
e– e–e–e–
Vitamin C
Figure 5.2		Vitamin	 E	functions	 as	an	antioxidant	 that	protects	 the	unsaturated	 fatty	acids	in	
cell	membranes	by	neutralizing	free	radicals
Source:	Smolin	and	Grovenor	(2010).	Used	with	permission.

Micronutrients: vitamins 		91
	 Vitamin	 E	deficiency	 is	uncommon,	 and	cases	have	only	been	reported	 in	infants	fed	
with	formula	that	contain	inadequate	 vitamin	E,	people	with	genetic	abnormalities,	 and	in	
diseases	causing	malabsorption	 of	fat.	Vitamin	E	deficiency	 is	characterized	 by	a	variety	of	
symptoms,	 including	 neuromuscular	 problems,	 loss	of	coordination,	 and	muscular	 pain.	
Vitamin	E	deficiency	 also	causes	membranes	 of	red	blood	cells	to	weaken	and	rupture,	 a	
condition	 referred	to	as	hemolytic	 anemia.	This	is	because	vitamin	E	is	especially	 important 	
in	protecting 	red	blood	cells	from	oxidative 	damage.	Hemolytic 	anemia	reduces	the	
blood’s	ability	to	transport	oxygen,	resulting	in	weakness	and	fatigue.
	 The	RDA	for	vitamin	E	for	adult	males	and	females	is	set	at	15	mg	per	day.	This	value	is	
based	on	the	amount	 needed	to	maintain	 plasma	concentrations	 of	α-tocopherol	 that	
protect	red	blood	cells	from	breaking. 	The	RDA	for	vitamin	E	does	not	change	regardless	
of	age	or	pregnancy 	status,	although 	a	slight	increase	is	recommended 	for	women	who	are	
lactating.	 The	upper	level	for	vitamin	E	for	a	healthy	population	 is	1000	mg	per	day	of	sup-
plemental	 α-tocopherol.	 This	upper	level	was	established	 because	 excessive	 amounts	 of	
vitamin	E	can	reduce	blood	clotting	by	interfering	with	the	action	of	vitamin	K.
Vitamin K
Vitamin	 K	was	discovered	 and	named	for	its	role	in	koagulation	 (“coagulation”	 in	
Danish)	 by	Henrik	Dam,	a	Danish	physiologist	 who	found	that	vitamin	K	deficiency	 in	
chickens	 caused	excessive	 bleeding.	 Dam	received	 a	Noble	Prize	in	physiology	 or	medi -
cine	in	1943	for	this	discovery.	 As	with	all	the	fat-	soluble	vitamins,	 vitamin	K	is	found	in	
several	forms.	Phylloquinone 	is	the	form	found	in	plants	and	the	primary	form	in	the	
diet.	A	group	of	vitamin	K	compounds,	 called	menaquinones,	 are	found	in	fish	oils	and	
meats,	and	are	synthesized	 by	bacteria,	 including	 those	in	the	human	 intestine. 	
Menaquinones	 are	also	the	form	found	in	vitamin	K	supplements.	 Only	a	small	number	
of	foods	provide	significant	 amounts	 of	vitamin	K.	Liver,	fish,	legumes,	 and	leafy	green	
vegetables 	such	as	spinach,	broccoli, 	Brussels	sprouts,	kales,	and	turnip	greens	provide	
about	half	of	the	vitamin	K	in	a	typical	North	American	 diet	(Table 	5.6). 	Some	veget -
able	oils	are	also	good	sources.	Some	of	the	vitamin	K	produced 	by	bacteria	in	the	
human	gastrointestinal	 tract	is	also	absorbed.	 Dietary	vitamin	K	is	absorbed,	 along	with	
other	fat-	soluble	vitamins	 in	the	small	intestine	 via	micelle.	 Vitamin	 K	is	then	incorpor -
ated	into	chylomicrons	 and	put	into	lymph,	eventually	 entering	 the	blood.	Vitamin	 K	
produced 	by	bacteria	in	the	large	intestine 	is	transported 	into	epithelial 	cells	by	simple	
diffusion	 and	then	circulated	 to	the	liver	via	blood.	The	liver	packages	 both	dietary	and	
bacterially	 produced	 forms	of	vitamin	K	into	lipoproteins	 for	delivery	 to	the	rest	of	
the	body.
	 Vitamin	 K	is	needed	for	the	production	 of	the	blood-	clotting	protein	prothrombin 	
and	other	specific	blood-	clotting	factors.	These	proteins	 are	needed	to	produce	 fibrin,	
the	protein	that	forms	the	structure 	of	the	blood	clot	(F igure	5. 3).	Injuries	as	well	as	
the	normal	wear	and	tear	of	daily	living	produce	 micro	tears	in	blood	vessels.	To	
prevent	 blood	loss,	these	tears	must	be	repaired	 with	blood	clots.	Other	roles	for	
vitamin	K	are	less	well	understood.	 It	has	been	suggested	 that	vitamin	K	also	catalyzes 	
the	carboxylation	 of	other	proteins	 needed	for	bone	and	tooth	formation.	 Only	after	
they	have	been	carboxylated	 can	these	proteins	 bind	calcium.	 Some	studies	have	shown	
that	consuming	 foods	high	in	vitamin	K	is	associated	 with	decreased	 risk	for	hip	frac-
ture	(Booth	 et al.	2004,	Radecki	 2005,	Sasaki	 et al.	2005).	However,	 further	studies	are	
needed	to	determine	 whether	 increasing	 vitamin	K	intake	results	in	increased	 bone	
strength.
	 Although	 rare	in	healthy	adults,	vitamin	K	deficiency	 appears	 in	some	infants	and	
people	with	diseases	 that	cause	lipid	malabsorption.	 In	addition,	 the	prolonged	 use	of	

92		 Micronutrients: vitamins
antibiotics	 can	kill	the	bacteria	 that	normally	 live	in	the	large	intestine,	 resulting	 in	
vitamin	K	deficiency.	 The	main	sign	of	vitamin	K	deficiency	 is	excessive	 bleeding.	 In	
infants,	there	is	little	transfer	 of	this	vitamin	from	mother	to	fetus,	and	because	 the	
infant	gut	is	free	of	bacteria,	 none	is	made	there.	Further,	 breast	milk	is	low	in	vitamin	
K.	Therefore,	 to	prevent	uncontrolled	 bleeding,	 infants	are	typically	 given	a	vitamin	K	
injection	within	six	hours	of	birth.Table 5.6	Food	sources	of	vitamin	K
Food item Amount Vitamin K content ( µg)
Kale,	cooked	 1/2	cup 530
Turnip	green,	cooked 1	cup 520
Spinach,	cooked 1	cup 480
Brussel	sprouts,	cooked 1/2	cup 150
Spinach,	raw	 1	cup 144
Asparagus,	cooked 1	cup 144
Broccoli,	cooked 1/2	cup 110
Lettuce 1	cup 97
Green	beans,	cooked 1/2	cup 49
Cabbage,	raw 1	cup 42
Kiwi 2	med 38
Green	peas 1/2	cup 26
Soybean	oil 1	tablespoon 25
Cauliflower,	cooked 1	cup 20
Carrots,	cooked 1/2	cup 18
Canola	oil 1	tablespoon 17
Tomato,	raw 1/2	cup 3
Wholewheat	bread 2	slices 2
Note
RDA:	120	 µg/day	for	men	and	90	 µg/day	for	women.
Vitamin K
Prothrombin ThrombinTissue damage
Fibrin
Blood clottingFibrinogen
Figure 5.3 	The	role	of	vitamin	K	in	the	blood-clotting	process

Micronutrients: vitamins 		93
	 Unlike	 other	fat-	soluble	vitamins,	 vitamin	K	is	used	rapidly	by	the	body,	so	a	constant	
supply	is	necessary.	 The	RDA	for	vitamin	K	has	been	set	at	about	120	µg	a	day	for	men	
and	90	µg	a	day	for	women.	 Additional	 vitamin	K	is	provided	 by	bacteria	 in	the	gastro-
intestinal	 tract.	The	RDA	is	not	increased	 for	pregnancy	 or	lactation,	 and	remains	
unchanged	 with	advancing	 age.	Oral	vitamin	K	supplementation	 generally	 poses	no	risk	
of	toxicity,	so	no	upper	level	has	been	established.	 Because	 vitamin	K	functions	 in	blood	
clotting,	 high	doses	can	interfere	 with	anticoagulant	 drugs	used	to	lessen	blood	clotting.	
Therefore,	 those	who	are	prescribed	 these	medications	 should	consult	their	physicians	
before	taking	supplements	containing	vitamin	K.
Water- soluble vitamins
Water-	soluble	vitamins	 include	vitamin	C	and	the	B	vitamins	 such	as	thiamin,	 riboflavin, 	
niacin,	pantothenic	 acid,	biotin,	vitamin	B-	6,	folate,	and	vitamin	B-	12.	They	dissolve	in	
water,	so	large	amounts	 of	these	vitamins	 can	be	lost	during	food	processing	 and	prepara -
tion.	Vitamin	content	is	best	preserved	 by	light	cooking	methods,	 such	as	stir-	frying,	steam -
ing,	and	microwaving.	 Water-	soluble	vitamins	 are	absorbed	 mostly	in	the	small	intestine, 	
and	to	a	lesser	extent	the	stomach.	 The	extent	to	which	vitamins	 are	absorbed	 and	used	in	
the	body,	or	bioavailability,	 is	influenced	 by	many	factors,	including	 nutritional	 status,	other	
nutrients 	and	substances 	in	foods,	medications, 	age,	and	illness.	Once	absorbed, 	the	water-	
soluble	vitamins	 are	circulated	 to	the	liver	in	the	blood.	Because	 the	body	does	not	store	
large	quantities 	of	most	water-	soluble	vitamins,	they	generally 	do	not	have	toxic	effects	
when	consumed 	in	large	amounts. 	Most	water-	soluble	vitamins	are	readily	excreted	from	
the	body	with	an	excess	generally	 ending	up	in	the	urine	and	stool	and	very	little	being	
stored.	Most	B	vitamins	 function	 as	coenzymes	 that	help	regulate	 energy	metabolism,	 as	
illustrated 	in	Fi gure	5. 4,	whereas	vitamin	C	may	be	best	known	for	its	role	in	the	synthesis	
and	maintenance	 of	connective	 tissues	as	well	as	in	preventing	 scurvy.	The	following	 is	a	
more	detailed	discussion	for	each	of	the	water-	 soluble	vitamins	presented	separately.
Thiamin (vitamin B1)
Thiamin	 or	vitamin	B1	is	widely	distributed	 in	foods.	A	large	proportion	 of	the	thiamin	
consumed	 in	the	United	States	comes	from	enriched	 grains	used	in	foods	such	as	break -
fast	cereals	and	baked	goods	(Table 	5.7). 	Pork,	wholegrains,	 legumes,	 nuts,	seeds,	and	
organ	meats	(e.g.,	liver,	kidney,	heart)	are	also	good	sources.	The	adult	RDA	for	thiamin	
is	1.1	and	1.2	milligrams	 per	day.	The	RDA	is	based	on	the	amount	of	thiamin	needed	to	
achieve	and	maintain	 normal	activity	of	a	thiamin-	dependent	 enzyme	 found	in	red	
blood	cells	and	normal	urinary	thiamin	 secretion.	 For	an	average	 adult,	half	of	the	
thiamin	may	be	obtained	from	4	 oz	of	pork	or	3	cups	of	soy	milk.
	 Thiamin	 does	not	provide	energy,	but	it	is	important	 in	the	energy-	producing	 reac-
tions	in	the	body.	Thiamin	 functions	 as	a	coenzyme	 in	reactions	 in	which	carbon	dioxide	
is	lost	from	large	molecules.	 For	example,	 the	reaction	 that	forms	acetyl	CoA	from	pyru -
vate	requires	 thiamin	 pyrophosphate,	 an	active	form	of	thiamin.	 Thiamin	 is	therefore	
essential	 to	the	production	 of	energy	from	glucose.	 Thiamin	 is	also	needed	for	the	syn-
thesis	of	the	neurotransmitter	 acetylcholine	 and	production	 of	sugar	ribose,	which	is	
needed	to	synthesize	ribonucleic	acid	(RNA).
	 The	thiamin	 deficiency	 disease	is	called	beriberi,	 a	word	that	means	“I	can’t”	in	the	
Sri	Lanka	language	 of	Sinhalese.	 The	symptoms	 include	weakness,	 loss	of	appetite,	 irrita -
bility,	nervous	tingling	throughout	 the	body,	poor	arm	and	leg	coordination,	 and	deep	
muscle	pain	in	the	calves.	A	person	with	beriberi	 often	develops	 an	enlarged	 heart	and	
sometimes	severe	edema.

94		 Micronutrients: vitamins
Riboflavin (vitamin B2)
Riboflavin	 or	vitamin	B2	consists	of	a	multi-	ring	structure	 attached	 to	the	simple	sugar	
ribose.	Riboflavin	 in	the	body	is	typically	 found	as	one	of	its	coenzymes,	 flavin	adenine	
dinucleotide	 (FAD),	and	is	important	 for	energy	metabolism.	 Milk	is	the	best	source	of	
riboflavin	 in	the	North	American	 diet	(Table 	5.7). 	Other	major	sources	include	liver,	
red	meat,	poultry,	 fish,	and	wholegrains	 and	enriched	 breads	and	cereals.	Vegetable	
sources	include	 asparagus,	 broccoli,	 mushrooms,	 and	leafy	green	vegetables	 such	as	
spinach.	 The	RDA	for	riboflavin	 for	adult	men	and	women	are	1.3	mg	per	day	and	
1.1	mg	per	day,	respectively.	 Additional	 riboflavin	 is	recommended	 during	pregnancy	 to	
support	 growth	and	increased	 energy	utilization.	 Two	cups	of	milk	provide	about	half	
the	amount	of	riboflavin	 recommended	 for	a	typical	adult.	Although	 riboflavin	 is	relat -
ively	stable	during	cooking,	 it	is	easily	destroyed	 by	exposure	 to	light.	For	this	reason,	
milk	is	packaged	 in	cardboard	 or	cloudy	plastic	containers,	 and	it	is	recommended	 that	
food	be	stored	in	dark	containers	or	covered	with	paper	or	foil.
	 The	coenzyme	 forms	of	riboflavin	 participate	 in	many	energy-	yielding	metabolic	 path -
ways.	When	cells	generate	 energy	using	oxygen-	requiring	 pathways,	 such	as	when	fatty	
acids	are	broken	down	and	burned	for	energy,	the	coenzymes	 of	riboflavin	 are	used.	
Riboflavin	 is	also	required	 for	the	synthesis	 of	other	compounds.	 For	example,	 it	is	Fatty acids/glycerol
Thiamin,
pantothenic acid,
niacin, biotinThiamin, B6,
B12, biotin,
folate
B6, B12,
folate, biotinRiboflavin, niacin,
folate, B12Intermediates
CO2 ,H2O, energyCarbohydrate
(glycogen)Lipid
(triglycerides)
Monosaccharides Amino acidsProtein
B6B6, B12, C,  K,
niacin, folateNiacin
All B vitamins
except B6
Figure 5.4 		Various	roles	which	water-soluble	vitamins	play	in	metabolic	pathways
Source:	Wardlaw	and	Smith	(2013).	Used	with	permission.

Table 5.7	A	summary	of	water-soluble	vitamins
Vitamin Sources RDA for adults Major functions Deficiency diseases and symptoms
Thiamin	(B1) Enriched	grains,	pork,	
wholegrains,	legumes,	nuts,	
seeds,	organ	meats1.1–1.2	mg Coenzyme	in	acetyl-CoA	formation,	
Krebs	cycle,	nerve	functionBeriberi:	tingling,	poor	
coordination,	weakness,	heart	
changes
Riboflavin	(B2) Milk,	leafy	greens,	enriched	
grains,	poultry,	fish1.1–1.3	mg Coenzyme	in	Krebs	cycle,	fat	
metabolism,	electron	transport	chainInflammation	of	the	mouth	and	
tongue,	dermatitis
Niacin	(B3) Enriched	grains,	peanuts,	
poultry,	beef,	tuna14–16	mg Coenzyme	in	glycolysis,	Krebs	cycle,	
electron	transport	chainPellagra:	dementia,	diarrhea,	and	
dermatitis
Pantothenic	acid	 Meat,	seeds,	mushrooms,	
peanuts,	eggs5	mg* Coenzymes	in	Krebs	cycle,	fat	
metabolismTingling	in	the	feet	and	legs,	
fatigue,	weakness,	nausea
Biotin	(B7) Cauliflower,	egg	yolks,	peanuts,	
liver,	cheese30	µg Coenzyme	in	glucose	production,	fat	
synthesisDepression,	hallucinations,	skin	
irritations,	inflections,	poor	muscle	
control
Vitamin	B6 Meat,	legumes,	seeds,	leafy	
greens,	whole	grains1.3–1.7	mg Coenzyme	in	protein	metabolism,	
neurotransmitter	and	hemoglobin	
synthesisHeadache,	nausea,	poor	growth,	
microcytic	hypochromic	anemia
Folate	(Folic	acid) Leafy	greens,	organ	meats,	
legumes,	orange	juice,	milk,	400	µg	DFE† Coenzyme	in	DNA	synthesis	and	
amino	acid	metabolismMacrocytic	anemia,	diarrhea,	poor	
growth,	neural	tube	defects	
Vitamin	B12 Meat,	milk,	poultry,	seafood,	
eggs,	organ	meats2.4	µg Coenzyme	in	folate	metabolism,	
nerve	functionPernicious	anemia,	poor	nerve	
function
Vitamin	C Citrus	fruits,	green	peppers,	
cauliflower,	broccoli,	
strawberries75–90	g Collagen	synthesis,	hormone	and	
neurotransmitter	synthesis,	
antioxidantScurvy:	poor	wound	healing,	
bleeding	gums,	bruising,	depression,	
hysteria
Notes
*	Adequate	intake	(AI).
†	Dietary	folate	equivalent

96		 Micronutrients: vitamins
needed	to	convert	vitamin	A	and	folate	(a	B	vitamin)	 into	their	active	forms,	convert	
tryptophan	 (an	amino	acid)	into	niacin	(a	B	vitamin),	 and	form	vitamins	 B6	and	K.	
Riboflavin	 is	also	involved	 in	the	metabolism	 of	some	important	 neurotransmitters,	 such	
as	dopamine,	 and	in	several	important	 reactions	 that	protect	biological	 membranes	 from	
oxidative	damage.
	 The	symptoms	 associated	 with	riboflavin	 deficiency	 include	 inflammation	 of	the	
mouth	and	tongue,	 dermatitis,	 cracking	 of	tissue	around	the	corners	of	the	mouth,	
various	eye	disorders,	 and	sensitivity	 to	the	sun.	These	symptoms	 usually	develop	 after	
approximately	 two	months	of	a	riboflavin-	 poor	diet.	A	deficiency	 of	riboflavin	 is	rarely	
seen	alone.	Instead,	 it	often	occurs	with	deficiencies	 of	other	B	vitamins	 such	as	niacin,	
thiamin,	and	vitamin	B-	 6	because	these	nutrients	regularly	occur	in	the	same	foods.
Niacin (vitamin B3)
Niacin	or	vitamin	B3	takes	two	forms:	nicotinic	 acid	and	nicotinamide.	 The	body	uses	
both	forms	to	make	the	coenzymes	 nicotinamide	 adenine	 dinucleotide	 (NAD)	and	
nicotinamide	 adenine	 dinucleotide	 phosphate	 (NADP).	 NAD	and	NADP	are	involved	
in	numerous	 reactions	 in	the	body,	many	of	which	are	required	 for	energy	metabo -
lism.	Major	sources	of	niacin	are	poultry,	 ready-	to-eat	breakfast	 cereals,	beef,	wheat	
bran,	tuna,	and	other	fish,	asparagus,	 and	peanuts	 (Table 	5.7). 	Coffee	and	tea	also	
contribute	 some	niacin	to	the	diet.	Niacin	is	heat	stable,	and	little	is	lost	in	cooking. 	
Niacin	can	be	synthesized 	from	essential 	amino	acid	tryptophan. 	If	a	diet	that	contains	
high-	protein	foods	such	as	milk	and	eggs,	which	are	poor	sources	of	niacin	but	good	
sources	of	tryptophan,	 much	of	the	need	for	niacin	is	met	by	tryptophan.	 However, 	
this	happens	 only	if	enough	 tryptophan	 is	available	 to	meet	the	needs	of	protein	syn-
thesis.	The	adult	RDA	of	niacin	is	14	to	16	mg	per	day.	The	RDA	is	expressed	 as	niacin	
equivalents	 to	account	 for	niacin	received	 from	the	diet	as	well	as	that	made	from	
tryptophan.
	 Niacin	 is	important	 in	the	production	 of	energy	from	energy-	yielding	 nutrients	 as	
well	as	in	reactions	 that	synthesize	 other	molecules.	 As	mentioned	 earlier,	the	body	
uses	niacin	to	make	the	two	active	coenzymes	 nicotinamide	 adenine	 dinucleotide 	
(NAD)	and	nicotinamide	 adenine	 dinucleotide	 phosphate	 (NADP).	 NAD	functions	 in	
glycolysis	 and	the	Krebs	cycle,	accepting	 released	 electrons	 and	passing	them	to	the	
electron	 transport	 chain	where	ATP	is	formed.	 NADP	acts	as	an	electron	 carrier	in	
reactions	 that	synthesize	 compounds,	 including	 fatty	acids,	cholesterol,	 steroid	hor-
mones,	and	DNA.	Niacin	has	additional	 functions	 unrelated	 to	its	role	as	a	coenzyme. 	
For	example,	 it	is	important	 for	maintaining,	 replicating,	 and	repairing	 DNA,	and	may	
play	a	role	in	protein	synthesis,	 glucose	homeostasis,	 and	cholesterol	 metabolism.	 It	
has	been	shown	that	consuming	 large	amounts	 of	niacin	(2	to	4	g/day)	lowers	low-	
density	lipoprotein	 (LDL)	cholesterol	 and	increases	 high-	density	lipoprotein	 (HDL)	
cholesterol	(Ganji	 et al.	2003,	Krauss	2004).
	 Almost	 every	cellular	metabolic	 pathway	 uses	niacin	as	a	coenzyme,	 so	a	deficiency 	
causes	widespread	 changes	 in	the	body.	The	group	of	niacin	deficiency	 symptoms	 is	
known	as	pellagra,	 which	means	rough	and	painful	skin.	The	early	symptoms	 of	the	
disease	include	 poor	appetite,	 weight	loss,	and	weakness.	 If	left	untreated,	 they	can	
then	result	in	dementia,	 diarrhea,	 and	dermatitis	 (especially	 on	areas	of	skin	exposed	
to	the	sun).	Pellagra	 is	the	only	dietary	deficiency	 disease	ever	to	reach	epidemic	 pro-
portions	 in	the	United	States.	It	became	 a	major	problem	 in	the	southeastern	 United	
States	in	the	late	1800s	and	persisted	 until	the	late	1930s	when	standards	 of	living	and	
diets	improved.	 Today,	pellagra	 is	rare	in	Western	 societies,	 but	may	still	be	seen	in	
the	developing	world.

Micronutrients: vitamins 		97
Pantothenic acid (vitamin B5)
Pantothenic	 acid	or	vitamin	B5	is	a	nitrogen-	 containing	 vitamin	named	for	the	Greek	word	
pantos,	meaning	 “everywhere.”	 This	is	because	pantothenic	 acid	is	found	in	almost	every	
plant	and	animal	tissue.	Pantothenic	 acid	functions	 as	a	component	 of	coenzyme	 A	(CoA)	
in	a	variety	of	metabolic	 reactions.	 Rich	sources	of	pantothenic	 acid	are	sunflower	 seeds,	
mushrooms,	 peanuts,	 and	eggs	(Table	5.7).	Other	sources	are	meat,	milk,	and	many	veget -
ables.	There	is	not	enough	information	 to	establish	 RDAs	for	pantothenic	 acid;	an	ade-
quate	intake	(AI)	set	for	pantothenic 	acid	is	5	mg	per	day	for	adults.	Because	no	evidence	
exists	of	toxicity,	no	upper	limits	are	set	for	this	vitamin	as	well.
	 The	primary	 function	 of	pantothenic	 acid	as	CoA	is	in	the	metabolism	 of	glucose,	
amino	acids,	and	fatty	acids	for	energy	(ATP)	production	 via	glycolysis	 and	the	Krebs	
cycle.	For	example,	 one	of	the	pivotal	steps	in	energy	metabolism	 involves	 converting	
pyruvate	 into	acetyl-	CoA.	This	reaction	 requires	 pantothenic	 acid.	The	ability	to	produce	
acetyl	CoA	is	essential	 for	the	body	to	metabolize	 energy-	yielding	 nutrients	 for	ATP	pro-
duction.	 Pentothenic	 acid	is	also	required	 for	synthesizing	 many	other	critical	com-
pounds	in	the	body,	including	 heme	(a	portion	of	hemoglobin),	 cholesterol,	 bile	salts,	
phospholipids,	fatty	acids,	and	steroid	hormones.
	 Because	 it	is	found	in	almost	all	foods,	pantothenic	 acid	deficiency	 is	rare.	Nonethe -
less,	a	condition	 called	“burning	 feet	syndrome”	 is	thought	 to	be	due	to	severe	pan-
tothenic	 acid	deficiency.	 Burning	 feet	syndrome	 causes	a	tingling	in	the	feet	and	legs	as	
well	as	fatigue,	weakness,	 and	nausea.	A	deficiency	 in	pantothenic	 acid	may	also	occur	
when	alcoholism	 is	accompanied	 by	a	nutrient-	 deficient	 diet.	However,	 the	symptoms	
would	probably	 be	hidden	among	deficiencies	 of	thiamin,	 riboflavin,	 vitamin	B6,	and	
folate,	so	that	pantothenic	acid	deficiency	may	be	unrecognizable.
Biotin (vitamin B7)
Biotin	or	vitamin	B7	is	a	sulfur-	containing	 molecule	 with	two	connected	 ring	structures	
and	a	side	chain.	The	body	obtains	biotin	from	both	the	diet	and	via	biotin-	producing	
bacteria	 in	the	large	intestine.	 Cauliflowers,	 egg	yolks,	peanuts,	 and	cheese	are	good	
sources	of	biotin	(Table	5.7).	Food	containing	 raw	egg	whites	should	be	avoided	 not	
only	because	 a	protein	in	egg	white,	called	avidin,	binds	biotin	and	prevents	 its	absorp -
tion,	but	because	raw	eggs	may	also	be	contaminated	 with	bacteria	 that	can	cause	blood-	
borne	illness.	Cooking	 eggs	thoroughly	 destroys	 bacteria	 and	denatures	 avidin	so	that	it	
cannot	bind	biotin.	No	RDA	is	available	for	this	vitamin.	However,	AI	for	biotin	has	been	
set	to	be	30	µg	per	day	for	adults.	Biotin	is	relatively	 nontoxic.	 Therefore,	 no	upper	limit	
for	biotin	has	been	set.
	 Biotin	 acts	as	a	coenzyme	 for	several	enzymes,	 all	of	which	catalyze	carboxylation	 reac-
tion.	In	other	words,	each	biotin-	requiring	 enzyme	causes	the	acid	group	COOH	to	be	
added	to	a	molecule.	 In	general,	 these	enzymes	 are	involved	 in	energy	metabolism	 path -
ways.	For	example,	 a	biotin-	requiring	 enzyme	converts	 pyruvate	 into	oxaloacetate,	 a	key	
step	in	gluconeogenesis.	 Biotin	is	also	a	coenzyme	 for	reactions	 that	allow	the	body	to	
use	some	amino	acids	in	the	Krebs	cycle,	for	the	synthesis	 of	fatty	acids,	and	for	the	
breakdown	 of	the	amino	acid	leucine.	 In	addition	 to	biotin’s	role	as	a	coenzyme,	 it	has	
non-	coenzyme	 functions	 related	to	gene	expression,	 especially	 that	influencing	 cell	
growth	and	development.
	 Although	 biotin	deficiency	 is	uncommon,	 it	occurs	in	small	portions	 of	the	popula -
tion,	such	as	people	who	routinely	 consume	 large	quantities	 of	raw	egg	whites.	However,	
in	theory	it	would	take	daily	consumption	 of	at	least	12	raw	egg	whites	for	a	prolonged	
period	of	time	to	cause	biotin	deficiency.	 Biotin	may	also	be	caused	by	conditions	

98		 Micronutrients: vitamins
impairing	 intestinal	 absorption	 such	as	inflammatory	 bowel	disease.	Signs	and	symptoms	
of	biotin	deficiency	 include	depression,	 hallucinations,	 skin	irritations,	 inflections,	 hair	
loss,	poor	muscle	control,	seizures,	and	developmental	delay	in	infants.
Vitamin B6
Almost	all	the	B	vitamins	 discussed	 so	far	have	a	common	 role	of	functioning	 as	a	
coenzyme	 involved	 in	energy	production.	 Vitamin	 B6,	however,	 is	somewhat	 unique	in	
that	it	is	mainly	involved	 in	protein	and	amino	acid	metabolism.	 There	are	three	forms	
of	vitamin	B6	–	pyridoxine,	 pyridoxal,	 and	pyridoxamine	 –	all	made	of	a	modified,	
nitrogen-	 containing	 ring	structure.	 All	three	forms	can	be	changed	 to	the	active	vitamin	
B6	coenzyme	 involved	 in	numerous	 chemical	 reactions.	 Major	sources	of	vitamin	B6	are	
animal	products,	 ready-	to-eat	breakfast	 cereals,	potatoes,	 and	milk	(Table 	5.7). 	Other	
sources	are	fruits	and	vegetables	 such	as	bananas,	 cantaloupes,	 broccoli,	 and	spinach.	
Overall,	animal	sources	and	fortified	 products	 are	the	most	reliable	because	the	vitamin	
B6	they	contain	are	more	absorbable	 than	that	in	plant	foods.	The	adult	RDA	of	vitamin	
B6	is	1.3	to	1.7	mg	per	day.	Vitamin	 B6	is	easily	destroyed	 in	processing	 such	as	heating	
and	freezing.	 It	is	not	one	of	the	vitamins	 added	to	“enrich”	 products,	 but	fortified	
breakfast	cereals	make	an	important	contribution	to	vitamin	B6	intake.
	 Vitamin	 B6	comprises	 a	group	of	compounds	 including	 pyridoxine,	 pyridoxal,	 and	
pyridoxamine	 as	mentioned	 above.	All	three	forms	can	be	converted	 into	the	active	
coenzyme	 form,	pyridoxal	 phosphate.	 Pyridoxal	 phosphate	 is	needed	for	the	activation	
of	more	than	100	enzymes	 involved	 mainly	in	protein	and	amino	acid	metabolism.	 As	
shown	in	Figure	5.5,	vitamin 	B6	is	used	to	synthesize	 nonessential	 amino	acids	by	
transamination	 and	to	remove	the	amino	group,	so	amino	acids	may	be	used	to	produce	
energy	or	to	synthesize	 glucose.	 This	vitamin	is	also	needed	to	remove	the	carboxyl	
group	(COOH)	 from	amino	acids	for	the	synthesis	 of	neurotransmitters	 such	as	
serotonin	 and	dopamine	 as	well	as	hemoglobin.	 Without	 pyridoxal	 phosphate,	 the	non-
essential	 amino	acids	cannot	be	synthesized.	 Recall	that	only	9	essential	 amino	acids	
must	be	obtained	 from	foods,	whereas	 20	amino	acids	are	needed	for	life.	Without	
vitamin	B6,	all	20	amino	acids	would	be	essential.	 Pyridoxal	 phosphate	 is	important	 for	
the	immune	 system	because	 it	is	needed	to	form	white	blood	cells.	It	is	also	needed	for	
the	synthesis	of	the	lipids	that	are	part	of	the	myelin	coating	on	nerves.
H2NNH2
CR
HCOOH
COOHCR
HCOOHAmino acid Carbon chain
Energy
production or
glucose
synthesis
NeurotransmittersVitamin B6Vitamin B6
Figure 5.5 		The	role	of	vitamin	B6	in	protein	metabolism,	 synthesis	 of	neurotransmitters,	
and	energy	production

Micronutrients: vitamins 		99
	 Vitamin	 B6	deficiency	 results	in	inadequate	 heme	production,	 and	thus	lower	con-
centrations	 of	hemoglobin	 in	red	blood	cells.	This	condition,	 called	 microcytic 
hypochromic anemia ,	results	from	the	fact	that	red	blood	cells	are	small	in	size	and	light	
in	color.	It	decreases	 oxygen	availability	 in	tissues	and	impairs	the	ability	to	produce	 ATP	
via	aerobic	 metabolism.	 Vitamin	 B6	deficiency	 also	causes	neurological	 symptoms,	
including	 depression,	 headaches,	 confusion,	 numbness	 and	tingling	in	the	extremities,	
and	seizures.	 These	symptoms	 may	be	related	to	the	role	of	vitamin	B6	in	neurotransmit -
ter	synthesis	 and	myelin	formation.	 Other	deficiency	 symptoms	 such	as	poor	growth,	
skin	lesions,	 and	decreased	 antibody	 formation	 may	occur	because	 vitamin	 B6	is	
important	 in	protein	and	energy	metabolism.	 Since	vitamin	B6	is	needed	for	amino	acid	
metabolism,	 the	onset	of	deficiency	 can	be	hastened	 by	a	diet	that	is	low	in	vitamin	B6	
but	high	in	protein.
Folate
Folate	consists	 of	three	parts:	(1)	a	nitrogen-	 containing	 double-	ring	structure;	 (2)	a	
nitrogen-	 containing	 single-	ring	structure,	 and	(3)	a	glutamic	 acid	(also	called	gluta -
mate).	Folate	typically	 has	additional	 glutamic	 acids	attached	 to	it.	The	inter-	conversion	
of	these	“polyglutamate”	 forms	of	folate	is	important	 for	functions	 of	folate.	Folic	acid,	
which	is	the	oxidized	 and	stable	form	of	folate,	is	rarely	found	in	foods	but	is	used	in	
vitamin	supplements	 and	food	fortification.	 Folate	is	derived	from	the	Latin	word	 folium,	
which	means	foliage	or	leaves.	Green,	leafy	vegetables	 as	well	as	organ	meats,	sprouts,	
legumes,	 and	orange	juice	are	the	richest	sources	of	folate.	In	addition,	 ready-	to-eat	
cereals,	milk,	and	bread	are	also	important	 sources	of	folate	(Table	5.7).	Folate	is	sus-
ceptible	 to	destruction	 by	heat.	Food	processing	 and	preparation	 can	destroy	at	least	
half	of	the	folate	in	food.	This	underscores	 the	importance	 of	eating	fresh	fruits	and	raw	
or	lightly	cooked	vegetables	regularly.
	 Recommendations	 concerning	 folate	intake	have	received	 substantial	 attention	 since	
its	relationship	 with	neural	tube	defects	was	determined	 in	the	late	1980s.	The	adult	
RDA	for	folate	is	set	at	400	µg	of	dietary	folate	equivalents	 (DFEs)	per	day.	One	DFE	is	
equal	to	1	µg	of	food	folate	or	0.5	µg	of	synthetic	 folic	acid	consumed	 on	an	empty	
stomach.	 In	order	to	reduce	the	risk	of	neural	tube	defects,	a	special	recommendation	 is	
made	for	women	capable	of	becoming	 pregnant.	 A	daily	intake	of	400	µg	of	synthetic	
folic	acid	from	fortified	 foods	and/or	supplements	 is	recommended,	 in	addition	 to	the	
food	folate	consumed	 in	a	diet.	The	RDA	for	folate	during	pregnancy	 is	increased	 to	
600	µg	per	day	due	to	the	increase	 in	cell	division.	 Although	 this	level	may	be	met	by	a	
carefully	selected	diet,	folate	is	typically	supplemented	during	pregnancy.
	 Folate	 acts	as	a	coenzyme	 for	many	reactions,	 all	involving	 the	transfer	 of	a	single-	
carbon	or	methyl	group	such	as	–CH3.	These	reactions	 shift	carbons	from	one	molecule	
to	another	 to	form	the	many	organic	substances	 the	body	needs.	An	example	 of	folate’s	
single-	carbon	role	is	the	conversion	 of	homocysteine	 to	the	amino	acid	methionine.	 In	
this	reaction,	 5-methyltetrahydrofolate	 (an	inactive	 form	of	folate)	gives	off	a	methyl	
group	(–CH3)	 to	homocysteine	 that	produces	 methionine	 and	tetrahydrofolate.	 This	
important	 reaction	 provides	 the	body	with	the	amino	acid	methionine	 as	well	as	tetrahy -
drofolate,	 an	active	form	of	folate.	However,	 this	reaction	 does	not	happen	 by	itself.	
Instead,	it	occurs	in	synchrony	 with	another	reaction	 involving	 vitamin	B12.	So,	the	pro-
duction	of	methionine	 from	homocysteine	 requires	 both	folate	and	B12.	Folate	is	also	
involved	 in	single-	carbon	transfer	reactions	 required	 to	make	purines	and	pyrimidines,	
the	molecules	 that	make	up	DNA	and	RNA.	Because	 DNA	must	be	synthesized	 each	time	
a	new	cell	is	made,	folate	is	essential	 for	the	growth,	maintenance,	 and	repair	of	all	
tissues	in	the	body.

100		 Micronutrients: vitamins
	 Folate-	 deficiency	 symptoms	 include	poor	growth,	 problems	 in	nerve	development 	
and	function,	 gastrointestinal	 deterioration,	 and	anemia.	 Anemia	 results	when	folate	
is	deficient	 because	 the	bone	marrow	cells	that	develop	 into	blood	cells	cannot	divide.	
Instead,	they	just	grow	bigger.	These	large	red	blood	cells,	called	macrocytes, 	are	
immature	 and	have	limited	oxygen-	carrying	 capacity.	 This	type	of	anemia	 is	also	
known	as	macrocytic anemia .	Lack	of	ability	for	cells	to	divide	due	to	folate	deficiency 	
also	contributes 	to	the	deterioration 	of	the	gastrointestinal 	tract.	This	is	because	the	
cells	that	form	the	inner	lining	of	the	intestinal	 wall	cannot	successfully	 grow	or	be	
repaired.	 Folate	supplementation	 has	been	considered	 necessary	 for	preventing 	
neural	tube	defects.	Women	 during	early	pregnancy	 are	recommended	 to	take	up	to	
800	µg	per	day	of	synthetic 	folic	acid,	in	addition 	to	food	folate	in	order	to	reduce	
incidence	 of	neural	tube	defects.	 It	must	be	noted	that	neural	tube	defects	are	not	
true	folate	deficiency 	symptoms 	because	not	every	pregnant 	woman	with	inadequate	
folate	levels	will	give	birth	to	a	child	with	a	neural	tube	defect.	Instead,	neural	tube	
defects	are	probably	 due	to	a	combination	 of	factors	that	include	low	folate	levels	and	
a	genetic	predisposition.
Vitamin B12
Vitamin	B12	is	the	last	of	the	B	vitamins	to	be	discovered. 	It	is	also	referred	to	as	
cobalamin	 due	to	the	fact	that	it	contains	 the	trace	element	 cobalt	(Co)	and	several	
nitrogen	 atoms.	Major	sources	of	vitamin	B12	include	meat,	milk,	ready-	to-eat	break -
fast	cereals,	 poultry,	 seafood,	 and	eggs	(Table	5.7).	Organ	meats,	especially	 liver,	
kidneys,	and	heart,	are	especially 	rich	sources	of	vitamin	B12.	Vitamin	B12	can	also	be	
made	by	bacteria,	 fungi,	and	algae	but	not	by	plants	and	animals.	 Micro-	organisms	 in	
the	human	colon	produce	 B12,	but	it	cannot	be	absorbed.	 Vitamin	 B12	is	not	sup-
plied	by	plant	products	 unless	they	have	been	contaminated	 with	bacteria,	 soil,	insects,	
or	other	sources	of	vitamin	B12,	or	have	been	fortified	 with	vitamin	B12.	Diets	that	do	
not	include	animal	products	 must	include	supplements	 or	foods	fortified	 with	vitamin	
B12	in	order	to	meet	needs.	The	RDA	of	vitamin	B12	for	adults	is	2.4	µg	per	day.	On	
average,	 adults	consumed	 two	times	of	the	RDA	or	more.	Such	overconsumption 	
seems	to	be	necessary	 because	 it	is	assumed	 that	only	50	percent	 of	the	vitamin	B12	
ingested	is	absorbed.
	 Vitamin	 B12	participates	 as	a	coenzyme	 in	only	two	reactions.	 One	reaction	 catalyzes	
the	production	 of	succinyl	 CoA,	an	intermediate	 in	the	Krebs	cycle.	This	reaction	 ulti-
mately	allows	the	body	to	use	some	amino	acids	and	fatty	acids	for	energy	production.	
The	other	reaction	 catalyzes	 the	conversion	 of	homocysteine	 into	the	amino	acid	
methionine	 as	mentioned	 earlier.	This	reaction	 also	regenerates	 the	active	forms	of	
folate	that	function	 in	DNA	synthesis.	 Without	 adequate	 vitamin	B12,	homocysteine	
levels	build	up	in	the	blood,	and	folate	becomes	 “trapped”	 as	its	inactive	5-methyltetra-
hydrofolate	 form.	Thus,	folate	deficiency	 symptoms	 appear.	In	this	context,	 a	deficiency	
in	vitamin	B12	can	cause	a	secondary	 folate	deficiency	 and	its	related	symptoms	 such	as	
macrocytic	anemia.
	 Symptoms 	of	vitamin	B12	deficiency 	include	an	increase	in	blood	homocysteine	
levels	and	a	macrocytic	 anemia	that	is	indistinguishable	 from	that	seen	in	folate	defi-
ciency.	The	symptoms	 also	include	 numbness	 and	tingling,	 abnormalities	 in	gait,	
memory	 loss,	and	disorientation	 due	to	degeneration	 of	the	myelin	that	coats	the	
nerves,	spinal	cord,	and	brain.	If	not	treated,	 these	neurological	 symptoms	 may	even -
tually	lead	to	paralysis	 and	death.	A	severe	deficiency	 in	vitamin	B12	can	be	caused	by	
pernicious anemia ,	a	condition	 in	which	the	parietal	cells	of	the	stomach	 that	produce	
intrinsic	 factors	are	damaged.	 Intrinsic	 factor	is	a	protein	that	binds	to	vitamin	B12	

Micronutrients: vitamins 		101
and	allows	the	vitamin	to	be	absorbed	 in	the	ileum	of	the	small	intestine.	 Only	small	
portions	 of	vitamin	 B12	can	be	absorbed	 without	 intrinsic	 factor.	Vitamin	 B12	
deficiency	 is	especially	 common	 in	the	elderly	population.	 This	is	due	to	a	variety	of	
factors,	 including	 inadequate	 vitamin	 B12	intake,	decreased	 synthesis	 of	intrinsic	
factor,	and	reduced	stomach	acid	secretion.
Vitamin C (ascorbic acid)
Vitamin	 C	appears	to	play	a	role	in	almost	every	physiological	 system.	For	example,	 it	is	
important	 for	immune,	 cardiovascular,	 neurological,	 and	endocrine	 systems.	 This	relat -
ively	simple	compound	 can	be	made	from	glucose	in	all	plants	and	most	animals,	 but	
not	in	humans.	 Thus,	for	humans,	 vitamin	C	is	considered	 an	essential	 nutrient.	 Vitamin	
C	is	also	referred	 to	as	ascorbic	 acid.	Major	sources	of	vitamin	C	are	citrus	fruits,	green	
peppers,	 cauliflowers,	 broccoli,	 cabbages,	 strawberries,	 and	romaine	 lettuce	(Table 	5.7). 	
Potatoes,	 breakfast	 cereals,	and	fortified	 fruit	drinks	are	also	good	sources	of	vitamin	C.	
The	adult	RDA	of	vitamin	C	is	75	to	90	mg	per	day.	Cigarette	 smokers	 need	to	add	an	
extra	35	mg	per	day	to	the	RDA	because	 of	the	great	stress	on	their	lungs	from	oxygen	
and	toxic	by-	products	 of	cigarette	 smoke.	Nearly	all	individuals	 likely	meet	their	daily	
needs	for	vitamin	C	via	a	regular	diet.	Nevertheless,	 nutrition	 experts	who	advocate	
increased	 use	of	vitamin	C	often	recommend	 an	intake	of	about	200	mg	per	day.	Still,	
this	amount	can	be	obtained	 by	sufficient	 fruit	and	vegetable	 intake.	Vitamin	C	is	rapidly	
lost	in	processing	 and	cooking	 as	it	is	water	soluble,	and	it	is	unstable	 in	the	presence	 of	
heat,	iron,	copper,	or	oxygen.
	 The	most	notable	 function	 of	vitamin	 C	is	its	role	in	synthesizing	 the	protein	
collagen.	This	protein	 is	highly	concentrated	 in	connective	 tissue,	bone,	teeth,	
tendons, 	and	blood-	vessels.	It	is	important 	for	healing	wounds.	Vitamin	C	increases	
the	cross-	connections	 between	 amino	acids	in	collagen,	 greatly	strengthening	 the	
structural	 tissues	it	helps	form.	Vitamin	 C	also	functions	 as	an	antioxidant.	 Antioxi -
dants	are	substances	that	protect	against	oxidative	damage,	which	is	damage	caused	by 	
reactive	oxygen	molecules.	 Reactive	 oxygen	species	such	as	free	radicals	can	be	gener -
ated	by	normal	oxidation	 reactions	 inside	the	body	or	can	come	from	environmental 	
sources	such	as	air	pollution	 or	cigarette	 smoke.	Free	radicals	cause	damage	 by	remov -
ing	electrons 	from	DNA,	proteins, 	carbohydrates, 	or	unsaturated 	fatty	acids.	This	
results	in	unstable	 structure	 and	function	 of	these	molecules.	 DNA	damage	 is	con-
sidered	 a	major	reason	for	the	increase	 in	cancer	incidence	 that	occurs	with	age.	
Damage	 to	lipoproteins	 and	lipids	in	membranes	 is	also	implicated	 in	the	develop -
ment	of	atherosclerosis.	 Vitamin	 C	is	vital	for	the	function	 of	the	immune	 system,	
especially 	for	the	activity	of	certain	immune 	cells.	Thus,	disease	states	that	increase	
the	need	for	immune	 function	 can	increase	 the	need	for	vitamin	C,	possibly	 above	the	
RDA.	Due	to	such	association	 between	 vitamin	C	and	immunity,	 most	individuals	 sup-
plement	 their	diets	with	vitamin	C	in	order	to	combat	the	common	 cold.	However,	 it	
remains	 questionable	as	 to	whether	 vitamin	C	works	effectively	 against	colds	and	other	
infections.	 Numerous	 well-	designed,	 double-	blind	studies	have	failed	to	show	mega	
doses	of	vitamin	C	to	reliably	prevent	colds,	though	it	seems	to	reduce	the	duration	 of	
symptoms.
	 Due	to	its	role	of	being	an	antioxidant,	 supplementing	 vitamin	C	is	often	a	topic	of	
discussion	 among	athletes	 and	physically	 active	individuals	 just	like	vitamin	E	as	dis-
cussed	earlier.	However,	 contrary	 to	common	 belief,	studies	have	recently	 demonstrated	
that	antioxidant	 supplementation	 may	interfere	 with	exercise-	 induced	 cell	signaling	 in	
skeletal	muscle	fibers.	In	turn,	such	changes	 in	cell	signaling	 may	potentially	 blunt	or	
block	adaptations	 to	training.	 For	example,	 Gomez-	Cabrera	 et al.	(2008)	investigated	

102		 Micronutrients: vitamins
whether	 high	doses	of	vitamin	C	affected	 adaptation	 to	endurance	 exercise	 training	
using	both	an	animal	and	human	model.	Interestingly,	 endurance	 performance	 and	
markers	 for	mitochondrial	 biogenesis	 increased	 to	a	greater	extent	in	animals	treated	
with	the	placebo	 than	animals	 treated	with	vitamin	 C.	In	the	human	experiment,	
changes	 in	VO2max	did	not	differ	significantly	 between	 the	supplement	 (1000	mg∙day−1)	
and	placebo	 groups.	In	another	 study	with	untrained	 and	trained	male	participants,	
Ristow	 et al.	(2009)	demonstrated	 that	four	weeks	of	vitamin	C	(1000	mg∙day−1)	and	E	
(400	IU∙day−1)	supplementation	 blunted	training-	induced	 increases	 in	the	mRNA	expres -
sion	of	genes	associated	 with	mitochondrial	 biogenesis	 and	endogenous	 antioxidant	
systems	in	skeletal	muscle.	Clearly,	antioxidants	 may	interfere	 with	adaptations	 to	exer-
cise	in	humans,	 and	high	doses	of	vitamin	C	as	well	as	vitamin	E	should	be	used	with	
caution.
	 Vitamin	 C	deficiency	 can	cause	a	deadly	condition	 called	scurvy.	Scurvy	results	in	a	
multitude	 of	signs	and	symptoms,	 including	 bleeding	 gums,	skin	irritations,	 bruising,	
and	poor	wound	healing,	 many	of	which	are	due	to	inadequate	 collagen	 production.	
Without	 vitamin	C,	the	bonds	holding	 adjacent	 collagen	 molecules	 together	 cannot	be	
formed	and	maintained.	 The	psychological	 manifestations	 of	scurvy	include	depression	
and	hysteria.	 Although	 it	used	to	be	very	common,	 the	increased	 availability	 of	fruits	and	
vegetables	 has	made	this	disease	rare.	Scurvy	can	develop	in	infants	fed	diets	consisting	
exclusively	 of	cow’s	milk,	but	this	condition	 can	be	reversed	 by	adding	fruit	juice	to	the	
infant	diet.	Scurvy	may	also	occur	in	alcoholics	 and	elderly	individuals	 consuming	
nutrient-	 poor	diets.
Summary
•	 Vitamins	 are	carbon-	containing	 compounds	 required	 by	the	body	daily	in	small	
quantities.
•	 Vitamins	 do	not	provide	 energy	directly,	 but	many	contribute	 to	energy-	yielding	
chemical	reactions	in	the	body	and	promote	growth	and	development.
•	 We	consume	 vitamins	 that	are	naturally	 present	in	foods,	added	to	foods	by	fortifica -
tion	and	enrichment,	and	contained	in	supplements.
•	 Vitamins	 are	classified	 as	either	fat	soluble	or	water	soluble.	The	fat-	soluble	vitamins	
are	vitamins	 A,	D,	E,	and	K,	whereas	 B	vitamins	 and	vitamin	C	are	water	soluble.	
Vitamin	D	deficiency	 is	linked	not	only	to	osteoporosis,	 but	also	to	increased	 risk	for	
developing	 cardiovascular	 disease,	 diabetes,	 muscle	weakness	 and	pain,	cognitive	
impairment	in	older	adults,	and	certain	types	of	cancer.
•	 Absorption	 of	fat-	soluble	vitamins	 requires	 an	adequate	 consumption	 of	fat	in	
the	diet.
•	 Vitamins	 A,	C,	E,	and	carotenoids,	 precursors	 to	vitamin	A,	serve	important	 protec -
tive	functions	 as	antioxidants,	 and	diets	containing	 these	micronutrients	 can	reduce	
the	potential	for	tissue	damage	and	protect	against	heart	disease	and	cancer.
•	 As	antioxidants	 may	interfere	 with	adaptations	 to	exercise	 in	humans,	 one	should	
avoid	supplementing	vitamins	C	and	E	in	a	large	dose.
•	 Excess	 fat-	soluble	vitamins	 accumulate	 in	body	tissues	and	can	become	 toxic.	
However,	 excess	water-	soluble	vitamins	 generally	 remain	non-	toxic	as	they	can	be	
excreted	via	urine.
•	 Most	 B	vitamins,	 such	as	vitamin	B1	(thiamin),	 vitamin	B2	(riboflavin),	 vitamin	B3	
(niacin),	 vitamin	B5	(pantothenic	 acid),	vitamin	B6,	and	vitamin	B7	(biotin),	 func -
tion	as	coenzymes	 in	reactions	 involved	 in	the	metabolism	 of	carbohydrate,	 fat,	and	
protein.

Micronutrients: vitamins 		103
•	 The	 B	vitamin	folate	and	vitamin	B12	share	the	similar	role	of	regulating	 the	syn-
thesis	of	DNA,	which	is	required	 for	cells	to	divide.	Therefore,	 deficiency	 in	these	
vitamins	can	result	in	problems,	such	as	anemia	and	neural	tube	defects.
•	 Vitamin	 C	may	be	best	known	for	its	role	in	the	synthesis	 and	maintenance	 of	con-
nective	tissues	as	well	as	in	preventing	scurvy.
Case study: choose a vitamin supplement wisely
John	works	the	late	shift	in	a	local	warehouse 	four	days	a	week.	John	is	also	a	full-	time	
student,	and	a	combination 	of	taking	a	full	course	load	at	college	and	working	late	hours	
has	created	a	lot	of	stress	for	him.	John	also	plays	intramural	 soccer	and	writes	regularly 	
for	the	college	newspaper.	 His	many	commitments	 make	it	important	 that	he	does	not	
become	ill.	Recently, 	one	of	his	roommates 	suggested 	that	he	take	vitamin	supplements	
to	help	prevent	colds,	flu,	and	other	illnesses.	The	special	multivitamin 	product	that	he	is	
interested 	in	recommends 	taking	three	tablets	daily	for	health	maintenance 	and	two	
tablets	every	three	hours	at	the	first	sign	of	feeling	ill.	John	looks	at	the	Supplement 	Facts	
label	on	the	bottle	and	finds	that	each	tablet	contains	(as	a	percentage 	of	daily	value):	35	
percent	for	vitamin	A	(three-	quarters	 is	pre-	formed	vitamin	A),	500	percent	for	vitamin	
C,	50	percent	for	zinc,	and	20	percent	for	selenium.	A	monthly	supply	costs	about	$60.
Questions
•	 How	many	tablets	should	be	taken	per	day	if	John	was	feeling	ill?
•	 Given	 that	the	daily	value	for	vitamin	A	is	1000	µg,	what	is	the	total	amount	 of	
vitamin	A	in	this	larger	dose?
•	 How	 is	this	amount	 compared	 with	the	upper	level	of	3000	µg	for	pre-	formed	
vitamin	A?
•	 How	does	the	cost	of	this	supplement	 compare	 to	that	of	a	typical	multivitamin/
mineral	supplement	available	at	your	local	drug	store?
Review questions
	1	 What	is	a	vitamin?
	2	 Why	is	the	risk	of	toxicity	greater	with	the	fat-	soluble	vitamins	 than	with	water-	soluble	
vitamins	in	general?
	3	 What	do	enrichment	and	fortification	mean?
	4	 How	would	you	determine	 which	fruits	and	vegetables	 displayed	 in	your	supermarket	
are	likely	to	provide	plenty	of	antioxidants?
	5	 The	need	for	certain	vitamins	 increases	 as	energy	expenditure	 increases.	 Name	two	
such	vitamins	and	explain	why	this	is	the	case.
	6	 Why	is	a	low	folate	intake	of	particular	 concern	 for	women	 of	pregnancy	 or	
childbearing	age?
	7	 Define	the	term	“nutrient	bioavailability.”
	8	 Deficiencies	 in	vitamins	 B6,	B9,	and	B12	have	been	implicated	 for	dementia.	 Explain	
the	underlying	causes.
	9	 Why	will	vitamin	C	deficiency	cause	poor	wound	healing?
10	 Define	the	term	“free	radicals”;	also	identify	sources	of	free	radical	sources.
11	 Define	the	term	“antioxidant”;	also	explain	the	role	antioxidants	play	in	the	body.
12	 Why	 is	vitamin	 D	considered	 unique?	 Describe	 health	problems	 associated	 with	
vitamin	D	deficiency.
13	 Define	the	terms	“osteopenia”	and	“osteoporosis.”

104		 Micronutrients: vitamins
Suggested reading
	1	 American	 Dietetic	Association	 (2005)	Position	 of	the	American	 Dietetic	Association:	
fortification	 and	nutritional	 supplements.	 Journal of the American Dietetic Association ,	
105:	1300–1311.
 This position statement from the American Dietetic Association (ADA) emphasizes that the best 
nutritional strategy for promoting optimal health and reducing the risk of chronic disease is to 
choose a wide variety of foods wisely, although they acknowledge that additional nutrients from 
fortified foods and/or supplements can help some people meet their nutritional needs.
	2	 Fletcher	 RH,	Fairfield	 KM	(2002)	Vitamins	 for	chronic	disease	prevention	 in	adults:	
scientific	review.	 Journal of the American Medical Association ,	287:	3116–3126.
 This article reviews the clinically important vitamins regarding their biological effects, food 
sources, deficiency syndromes, potential for toxicity, and relationship to chronic disease.
	3	 Voutilainen	 S,	Nurmi	T,	Mursu	J,	Rissanen	 TH	(2006)	Carotenoids	 and	cardiovascu -
lar	health.	 American Journal of Clinical Nutrition ,	83:	1265–1271.
 Nutrition plays a significant role in the prevention of many chronic diseases such as CVD, 
cancers, and degenerative brain diseases. In this article, the role of main dietary carotenoids 
(i.e., lycopene, beta- carotene, alpha- carotene, beta- cryptoxanthin, lutein, and zeaxanthin) in the 
prevention of heart diseases is discussed.
Glossary
Bioavailability 	a	measure	of	how	well	a	nutrient	can	be	absorbed	and	used	by	the	body.
Collagen	a	fibrous	protein	found	mainly	in	skin,	bone,	cartilage,	 tendons,	 teeth,	and	
blood-	vessels.
Enrichment 	a	type	of	fortification	 in	which	nutrients	 are	added	for	the	purpose	of	restor -
ing	those	lost	in	processing	to	the	same	or	a	higher	level	than	originally	present.
Fortification 	the	process	of	adding	specific	nutrients	to	foods.
Free radical 	atoms	or	groups	of	atoms	with	an	odd	or	unpaired	number	of	electrons.
Macrocytic anemia 	a	condition 	in	which	red	blood	cells	grow	bigger	but	are	immature	
and	have	limited	oxygen-	 carrying	capacity.
Microcytic hypochromic anemia 	a	condition	 in	which	blood	cells	are	small	in	size	and	
light	in	color	due	to	lower	concentrations	in	hemoglobin.
Osteoclasts 	types	of	bone	cells	that	remove	bone	tissue.
Osteomalacia 	the	softening	 of	bone	tissue	due	to	vitamin	D	deficiency,	 an	adult	version	of	
rickets.
Osteoporosis 	a	chronic	condition	 characterized	 by	the	demineralization	 of	bone	and	a	
decrease	in	bone	density	and	strength.
Pernicious anemia 	a	decrease	 in	red	blood	cells	that	occurs	when	the	body	cannot	prop -
erly	absorb	vitamin	B12	from	the	gastrointestinal	tract.
Provitamins 	the	vitamins	that	are	available	from	foods	in	inactive	forms,	but	once	inside	
the	body	will	be	converted	into	active	forms.
Reactive oxygen species 	chemically	 reactive	molecules	 containing	 oxygen,	such	as	perox -
ides	and	superoxides,	 and	which	have	important	 roles	in	cell	signaling	 and	
homeostasis.
Retinoids 	provitamin	A	compounds	that	include	retinol,	retinoic	acid,	and	retinal.
Rickets	inadequate	 bone	mineralization	 due	to	vitamin	D	deficiency	 in	infants	and	chil-
dren	who	are	in	active	stages	of	growth.
Vitamins	organic	compounds	 essential	 in	the	diet	in	small	amounts	 to	promote	 and	regu-
late	body	functions	necessary	for	growth,	reproduction,	and	maintenance	of	the	body.
Vitamin toxicity 	a	condition	 in	which	a	person	develops	 symptoms	 as	side	effects	from	
taking	massive	doses	of	vitamins.

6 Micronutrients
Minerals and water
Contents
Key terms 106
Minerals 106
•	 Dietary	sources	and	bioavailability	 106
•	 General	functions	of	minerals	 107
Major	minerals	 107
•	 Sodium	and	chloride	 107
•	 Potassium	 108
•	 Calcium	 111
•	 Phosphorus	 113
•	 Magnesium	 114
•	 Sulfur	 115
Trace	minerals	 115
•	 Iron	 115
•	 Zinc	 117
•	 Selenium	 118
•	 Iodine	 119
•	 Chromium	 120
•	 Copper	 121
•	 Fluoride	 122
Water	 123
•	 Fluid	balance	and	electrolytes	 123
•	 Movement	of	water	across	membranes	via	osmosis	 124
•	 Function	of	water	 126
•	 Estimating	water	needs	 127
Summary	 128
Case	study	 129
Review	questions	 129
Suggested	reading	 130
Glossary	 130

106  Micronutrients: minerals and water
Key terms
•	 Bone	remodeling	 •	 Cretinism
•	 Cupric	 •	 Cuprous
•	 Cytochromes	 •	 Extracellular	fluid
•	 Ferric	iron	 •	 Ferrous	iron
•	 Fluorosis	 •	 Goiter
•	 Heme	iron	 •	 Hemoglobin
•	 Hydroxyapatites	 •	 Hypertension
•	 Hypertonic	 •	 Hypokalemia
•	 Hypotonic	 •	 Interstitial	fluid
•	 Intracellular	fluid	 •	 Iron	deficiency	anemia
•	 Isotonic	 •	 Major	minerals
•	 Myoglobin	 •	 Non-	heme	iron
•	 Osmosis	 •	 Osteoblasts
•	 Osteoclasts	 •	 Osteopenia
•	 Specific	heat	 •	 Tetany
•	 Trace	minerals
Minerals
In	addition	 to	organic	molecules	 such	as	protein,	 carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	vitamins,	
our	bodies	are	also	made	up	of	inorganic	 matters.	 These	inorganic	 substances	 include	
minerals	 and	water,	which	together	 constitute	 over	60	percent	of	the	body	weight.	Min-
erals	are	needed	by	the	body	as	structural	 components	 and	regulators	 of	various	biologi-
cal	processes.	 They	make	up	the	structure	 of	our	bones	and	teeth,	and	participate	 in	
hundreds	 of	chemical	 reactions.	 The	metabolic	 roles	of	minerals	 vary	considerably.	
Some	minerals,	 such	as	copper	and	selenium,	 work	as	co-	factors,	enabling	 various	pro-
teins,	such	as	enzymes,	 to	function.	 Minerals	 also	contribute	 to	many	body	compounds.	
For	example,	 iron	is	a	component	 of	red	blood	cells.	Sodium,	 potassium,	 and	calcium	
aid	in	the	transfer	 of	nerve	impulses	 throughout	 the	body.	Body	growth	and	develop-
ment	also	depend	on	certain	minerals,	 such	as	calcium	and	phosphorous.	 Minerals	 may	
combine	 with	other	elements	 in	the	body,	but	they	retain	their	chemical	 identity.	 Unlike	
vitamins,	 they	are	not	destroyed	 by	heat,	oxygen,	or	acid.	Minerals	 are	divided	into	 major 
minerals,	or	those	needed	in	the	diet	in	amounts	 greater	than	100	mg	per	day	or	present	
in	the	body	in	amounts	 greater	than	0.01	percent	of	the	body	weight,	and	 trace miner -
als,	or	those	required	 by	the	body	in	an	amount	of	100	mg	or	less	per	day	or	present	in	
the	body	in	an	amount	of	0.01	percent	or	less	of	body	weight.
Dietary sources and bioavailability
Minerals	 in	the	diet	come	from	both	plant	and	animal	sources.	 For	example,	 iron	is	a	
component	 of	muscle	tissue,	so	it	is	found	in	meat,	while	magnesium	 is	a	component	 of	
chlorophyll,	 so	it	is	found	in	leafy	greens.	In	general,	 the	quantities	 of	most	minerals	 in	
foods	are	quite	predictable	 because	 minerals	 are	regular	components	 of	the	plant	or	
animal.	However,	 the	amounts	 of	some	trace	minerals	 in	food	may	vary	depending	 on	
the	mineral	concentration	 in	the	soil	and	water	at	the	food’s	source.	For	example,	 the	
soil	content	of	iodine	is	high	near	the	ocean	but	usually	quite	low	in	inland	areas.	There-
fore,	foods	grown	near	the	ocean	are	better	sources	of	iodine	than	those	grown	inland.	
The	mineral	content	of	foods	can	also	be	affected	 by	food	processing	 and	refining.	 For	
example,	 when	the	skins	of	produce	 and	bran	and	germ	of	grains	are	removed,	 many	

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		107
trace	elements,	 such	as	iron,	selenium,	 zinc,	and	copper,	are	lost.	Such	food	processing	
will	also	decrease	 the	potassium	 content	 of	foods.	Some	minerals	 are	added	inadver-
tently	through	 contamination.	 For	example,	 the	iodine	content	 of	dairy	products	 is	
increased	 by	contamination	 from	the	cleaning	 solutions	 used	in	milking	 machines.	
Minerals	 can	also	be	added	intentionally.	 For	example,	 the	fortification	 of	breakfast	
cereals	can	add	calcium	and	other	minerals.	 Choosing	 a	variety	of	nutrient-	 dense	foods	
including	 those	that	are	unprocessed	 or	less	processed	 can	help	maximize	 the	content	
of	minerals	in	the	diet.
	 Foods	 offer	a	plentiful	 supply	of	many	minerals,	 but	the	ability	of	our	body	to	absorb	
and	use	them	varies.	The	bioavailability	 of	minerals	 depends	 on	many	factors.	Mineral	
ions	that	carry	the	same	charge	compete	 for	absorption	 in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	For	
example,	 calcium,	 magnesium,	 zinc,	copper,	and	iron	all	carry	2+	charge,	and	a	high	
intake	of	one	may	reduce	the	absorption	 of	others.	Mineral	bioavailability	 is	also	affected	
by	the	binding	of	minerals	 to	other	substances	 in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	For	example,	
spinach	contains	 plenty	of	calcium,	 but	only	about	5	percent	of	it	can	be	absorbed	 owing	
to	the	vegetable’s	 high	concentration	 of	oxalate,	a	calcium	binder.	Components	 found	
in	fibers,	such	as	phytate,	 can	also	limit	absorption	 of	some	minerals,	 such	as	calcium,	
magnesium,	 zinc,	and	iron,	by	binding	 to	them.	On	the	other	hand,	absorption	 of	
minerals	 can	be	facilitated	 by	consuming	 several	vitamins.	 For	example,	 the	active	
vitamin	D	improves	 calcium	 absorption.	 In	addition,	 when	consumed	 in	conjunction	
with	vitamin	C,	absorption	of	iron	improves.
General functions of minerals
Minerals	 are	transported	 in	the	blood	bound	to	transport	 proteins.	 The	binding	 of	
minerals	 to	transport	 proteins	 helps	regulate	 their	absorption	 and	prevent	reactive	min-
erals	from	forming	 free	radicals	that	could	cause	oxidative	 damage	 to	various	tissues.	
Minerals	 function	 in	a	variety	of	ways	in	the	body.	For	example,	 calcium	and	phospho -
rous	are	vitally	important	 for	the	structure	 and	strength	 of	bones	and	teeth;	iodine	is	a	
component	 of	the	thyroid	hormones,	 which	regulate	 metabolic	 rate;	and	chromium	
plays	a	role	in	regulating	 blood	glucose	levels.	Many	minerals	 participate	 in	chemical	
reactions	 by	serving	as	co-	factors.	They	are	also	required	 for	energy	metabolism,	 nerve	
function,	 and	muscle	contraction.	 In	addition,	 the	electrolytes	 such	as	sodium	and	chlo-
ride,	and	potassium	 are	essential	 for	maintaining	 a	proper	fluid	distribution	 across	the	
body’s	different	compartments.
Major minerals
Some	of	the	general	characteristics	 of	minerals	 and	how	they	function	 in	the	body	have	
been	discussed	 in	proceeding	 sections.	 It	appears	that	minerals	 serve	three	broad	roles	
in	the	body:	(1)	providing	 structure	 in	forming	 bones	and	teeth;	(2)	maintaining	 normal	
heart	rhythm,	 muscle	contractility,	 and	neural	conductivity;	 and	(3)	regulating	 metabo-
lism	by	becoming	 constituents	 of	enzymes	 and	hormones.	 The	following	 sections	provide	
more	detailed	 coverage	 of	each	of	the	major	minerals,	 including	 sodium	and	chloride,	
potassium,	calcium,	phosphorus,	magnesium,	and	sulfur.
Sodium and chloride
Sodium	and	chloride	 are	almost	always	found	together	 in	foods,	and	in	many	ways	have	
similar	functions	 in	the	body.	This	is	because	 they	join	via	ionic	bonds	to	form	salt	or	
sodium	chloride	 (NaCl).	These	minerals	 are	an	essential	 part	of	our	diets	and	add	flavor	

108		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
to	our	foods.	Table	salt	is	40	percent	 sodium	and	60	percent	 chloride.	 For	example,	
dietary	intake	of	10	grams	of	salt	translates	 into	about	4	grams	of	sodium	and	6	grams	of	
chloride.	 About	80	percent	of	the	sodium	and	chloride	 we	consume	 is	added	to	foods	
during	food	processing	 and	cooking.	 A	teaspoon	 of	salt	contains	 about	2	g	(or	2000	mg)	
of	sodium.	 Other	food	additives,	 such	as	monosodium	 glutamate,	 also	contain	sodium.	
In	general,	 unprocessed	 foods	such	as	fresh	fruits	and	vegetables	 contain	small	amounts	
of	sodium	and	chloride,	 whereas	 manufactured	 and	highly	processed	 foods	like	fast	
foods	and	frozen	entrees	contain	large	amounts.	 Some	meats,	dairy	products,	 poultry,	
and	seafood	 naturally	 contain	 moderate	 amounts	 of	both	sodium	and	chloride.	 We	
obtain	these	minerals	 also	from	salt-	containing	 condiments,	 such	as	soy	source	and	
ketchup.	 The	more	processed	 and	restaurant	 food	one	consumes,	 generally	 the	higher	
one’s	sodium	intake.	Conversely,	 the	more	home	cooking	 one	does,	the	more	sodium	
control	that	person	has.	Other	foods	that	are	especially	 high	in	sodium	include	salted	
snack	foods,	French	fries,	and	potato	chips,	and	sauces	and	gravies	(Table	6.1).
	 Sodium	 and	chloride,	 the	most	abundant	 ions	in	the	blood,	are	the	body’s	principal	
electrolytes.	 When	the	ionic	bond	of	a	NaCl	molecule	 dissociates	 in	water,	sodium	is	
released	 as	a	cation	(Na+),	whereas	 chloride	 is	released	 as	an	anion	(Cl–).	Both	ions	play	
a	major	role	in	fluid	balance.	 Because	 water	moves	naturally	 to	areas	that	have	high	
sodium	and/or	chloride	 concentrations,	 the	body	can	maintain	 fluid	balance	by	selec-
tively	moving	 these	electrolytes	 where	more	water	is	needed.	 Diet	high	in	salt	can	
increase	 extracellular	 volume,	 including	 plasma	volume.	 This	may	in	turn	cause	high	
blood	pressure	 or	hypertension. 	A	healthy	blood	pressure	 is	120/80	mmHg	or	less.	
However,	 hypertension	 is	generally	 defined	 as	a	blood	pressure	 of	140/90	mmHg	or	
greater.	 Sodium	 is	also	important	 for	nerve	function	 and	muscle	contraction,	 both	
of	which	also	involve	potassium	 (K+).	In	addition,	 chloride	 is	needed	for	the	production	
of	hydrochloric	 acid	(HCl)	in	the	stomach,	 for	removal	 of	carbon	dioxide	(CO2)	by	the	
lungs,	and	for	optimal	immune	function.
	 The	adequate	 intake	of	sodium	for	adults	under	age	51	is	1500	mg,	and	this	number	
should	be	reduced	 by	100	to	200	mg	for	older	adults.	Under	FDA	food	and	supplement	
labeling	 rules,	the	daily	value	for	sodium	is	2400	mg	or	2.4	grams.	However,	 the	amount	
typically	 eaten	in	North	America	 ranges	from	2300	to	4700	mg.	If	we	ate	only	unpro-
cessed	foods	and	added	no	salt,	we	would	consume	 about	500	mg	of	sodium	per	day.	
Nevertheless,	 the	body	really	needs	only	about	200	mg	per	day	to	maintain	 physiological	
functions.
	 Deficiencies	 of	sodium	and	chloride	 are	rare	in	healthy	individuals.	 However,	 they	may	
occur	in	infants	and	small	children	 who	suffer	diarrhea	 and/or	vomiting.	 These	conditions 	
result	in	loss	of	sodium	and	chloride	 through	 the	gastrointestinal	 tract	or	loss	of	nutrients 	
before	they	even	enter	the	intestine. 	Diarrhea 	and	vomiting	can	be	life	threatening 	due	to	
the	rapid	loss	of	both	electrolytes	 and	accompanying	 water.	Less	severe	sodium	and	chlo-
ride	deficiencies	 due	to	excessive	 sweating	 can	occur	in	athletes,	 especially	 those	involved	
in	endurance	 sports	such	as	marathon	 running.	 Symptoms	 of	electrolytes	 deficiency 	
include	nausea,	dizziness,	muscle	cramps,	and,	in	severe	cases,	coma.
Potassium
Whereas	 sodium	is	the	most	abundant	 cation	in	the	extracellular	 fluids,	potassium	 (K)	is	
the	most	abundant	 cation	in	the	intracellular	 fluids.	Potassium	 performs	 many	of	the	
same	functions	 as	sodium,	 such	as	fluid	balance	 and	nerve	impulse	 transmission.	
However,	 it	operates	 inside,	rather	than	outside,	 of	the	cell.	Intracellular	 fluids,	those	
inside	cells,	contain	 95	percent	 of	the	potassium	 in	the	body.	Also	unlike	sodium,	
increasing	potassium	intake	is	associated	with	lower	rather	than	high	blood	pressure.

Table 6.1	A	summary	of	the	major	minerals
Vitamin Sources RDA or AI* Major functions Deficiency diseases and symptoms
Sodium Table	salt,	processed	
foods,	condiments,	sauces,	
soups,	chipsAge	19–50	years:	1500	 mg;	
age	51–70	years:	1300	 mg;	
age	>70	years:	1200	 mgMajor	positive	ions	of	extracellular	
fluid,	aids	nerve	impulse	transmission,	
water	balanceMuscle	cramps,	diarrhea,	
vomiting
Chloride Table	salt,	processed	
foods,	some	vegetables	2300	mg Major	negative	ions	of	extracellular	
fluid,	used	for	acid	production	in	
stomach,	aids	nerve	impulse	
transmission,	water	balanceMuscle	cramps,	diarrhea,	
vomiting
Potassium Spinach,	squash,	bananas,	
orange	juice,	milk,	meat,	
legumes,	wholegrains4700	mg Major	positive	ions	of	intracellular	
fluid,	aids	nerve	impulse	
transmission,	water	balanceIrregular	heartbeats,	muscle	
cramps,	loss	of	appetite,	
confusion	
Calcium	 Dairy	products,	canned	
fish,	leafy	vegetables,	tofu,	
fortified	beverages	and	
foodsAge	9–18	years:	1300	 mg;	
age	>18	years:	1000–1200	 mgMaintenance	of	bones	and	teeth,	
aids	in	nerve	impulse	transmission,	
muscle	contraction,	blood	clottingStunted	growth	in	children,	
increased	risk	of	osteoporosis	in	
adults,	muscle	cramps	and,	if	
extreme,	muscle	pain	or	tetany
Phosphorus Dairy	products,	processed	
foods,	fish,	soft	drinks,	
bakery	goods,	meatsAge	9–18	years:	1250	 mg;	
age	>18	years:	700	 mgBone	and	tooth	structure	and	
strength,	part	of	metabolic	
compounds,	acid–base	balancePossibility	of	poor	bone	
maintenance,	muscle	weakness
Magnesium Wheat	bran,	green	
vegetables,	nuts,	
chocolate,	legumesMen:	400–420	 mg;	women:	
310–320	mgBone	structure,	aids	enzyme	function	
and	energy	metabolism,	aids	nerve	
and	heart	functionWeakness,	muscle	pain,	poor	
heart	function,	confusion	and,	if	
extreme,	convulsions
Sulfur Protein	foods	 None Parts	of	vitamins	and	amino	acids,	
acid–base	balance,	aids	in	drug	
detoxificationNone	observed	
Note
*	Adequate	intake	(AI).

110  Micronutrients: minerals and water
	 Generally,	 unprocessed	 foods	are	rich	sources	of	potassium.	 These	include	fruits,	
vegetables,	 milk,	wholegrains,	 dried	beans,	and	meats.	Major	sources	of	potassium	 in	
the	adult	diet	include	milk,	potatoes, 	beef,	coffee,	tomatoes, 	and	orange	juice	
(Table	6 .1). 	Diets	are	more	likely	to	be	lower	in	potassium 	than	sodium	because	we	
generally	 do	not	add	potassium	 to	foods.	Some	diuretics	 used	to	treat	high	blood	pres-
sure	can	also	deplete	 the	body’s	potassium	 stores.	Thus,	people	who	take	diuretics 	
need	to	monitor	 their	potassium	 intake	carefully.	 For	them,	high-	potassium	 foods	are	
necessary	 additions	 to	the	diet,	as	are	potassium	 chloride	 supplements	 if	prescribed	 by	
a	physician.	 The	bioavailability	 of	potassium	 from	these	foods	is	high	and	is	not	influ-
enced	by	other	factors.
	 The	potassium	 cation	(K+)	is	an	important	 electrolyte,	 working	 with	sodium	and	chlo-
ride	to	maintain	 proper	fluid	balance	in	the	body.	In	addition,	 potassium	 is	critical	for	
muscle	function,	 especially	 in	heart	tissue,	nerve	function,	 and	energy	metabolism.	
Whereas	 sodium	causes	a	rise	in	blood	pressure,	 consuming	 high	amounts	 of	potassium	
can	decrease	 blood	pressure	 in	some	people.	Research	 showed	that	individuals	 consum-
ing	vegetarian	 diets,	which	are	high	in	potassium,	 generally	 have	lower	blood	pressure	
than	non-	vegetarians	 (Craig	and	Mengels	 2009).	Population	 surveys	like	the	National	
Health	and	Nutrition	 Examination	 Survey	(NHANES)	 also	revealed	 that	a	diet	low	in	
potassium	 as	well	as	calcium	and	magnesium	 is	associated	 with	hypertension	 (Townsend	
et al.	2005).	A	more	recent	study	by	Hedayati	 et al.	(2012)	further	suggests	 that	the	effect	
of	low	potassium	 on	high	blood	pressure	 is	more	pronounced	 among	African	Americans	
and	may	be	even	stronger	 than	the	effect	of	high	sodium.	 In	this	study,	the	researchers	
analyzed	 data	on	over	3000	subjects,	 half	of	whom	were	African	American,	 and	found	
that	the	amount	 of	potassium	 in	urine	samples	 is	strongly	 correlated	 with	blood	pres-
sure.	There	has	been	a	lot	of	publicity	 about	lowering	 salt	or	sodium	in	the	diet	in	order	
to	lower	blood	pressure.	 Based	on	recent	literature,	 however,	 it	appears	that	potassium	
plays	at	least	an	equally	important	role	in	contributing	to	hypertension	as	well.
	 As	with	sodium	and	chloride,	 regulation	 of	blood	potassium	 level	is	achieved	 mostly	
by	the	kidneys.	 In	other	words,	when	blood	potassium	 is	elevated,	 the	kidneys	excrete	
more	potassium.	 The	opposite	 is	true	when	blood	potassium	 is	low.	The	hormone	 aldos-
terone,	which	is	released	 by	the	adrenal	glands	and	works	on	the	kidneys,	 causes	blood	
levels	of	sodium	and	chloride	 to	increase	 while	simultaneously	 causing	blood	levels	of	
potassium	to	decrease.
	 The	adequate	 intake	of	potassium	 for	adults	is	4700	mg	per	day.	The	daily	value	used	
to	express	potassium	 content	 on	food	and	supplement	 labels	is	3500	mg.	On	average,	
North	Americans	 consume	 2000	to	3000	mg	per	day.	Thus,	many	of	us	need	to	increase	
our	potassium	 intake,	preferably	 by	increasing	 fruit	and	vegetable	 consumption.	 Fruits,	
vegetables,	 fat-	free	or	low-	fat	dairy	foods	and	fish	are	good	natural	sources	of	potassium.	
Potassium-	 rich	foods	include	sweet	potatoes,	 greens,	spinach,	 mushrooms,	 beans,	peas,	
bananas,	tomatoes,	and	oranges	and	orange	juice.
	 Potassium	 deficiency	 is	rarely	seen	owing	to	the	abundance	 of	the	mineral	in	the	diet,	
although	 it	may	result	from	diarrhea	 and	vomiting.	 Heavy	use	of	certain	diuretics	 may	
also	result	in	excessive	 potassium	 loss	in	the	urine.	Diuretics	 are	drugs	used	to	lower	
blood	pressure	 by	helping	 the	body	eliminate	 water.	This	reduces	 blood	volume	and	
helps	decrease	 blood	pressure.	 However,	 when	the	body	excretes	 excessive	 amounts	 of	
water	it	also	loses	electrolytes.	 This	can	lead	to	low	blood	potassium,	 a	condition	 called	
hypokalemia .	People	with	eating	disorders	 involving	 vomiting,	 such	as	bulimia	nervosa,	
are	at	increased	 risk	for	hypokalemia.	 Potassium	 deficiency	 causes	muscle	weakness,	 irri-
tability,	and	confusion.	 Recent	studies	also	suggest	that	it	may	cause	insulin	resistance	
(Stumvoll	 et al.	2005).	In	severe	cases,	potassium	 deficiency	 may	cause	irregular	 heart-
beats,	muscle	paralysis,	decreased	blood	pressure,	and	difficulty	breathing.

Micronutrients: minerals and water   111
Calcium
Calcium	 is	the	most	abundant	 mineral	 in	the	body.	It	represents	 40	percent	of	all	the	
minerals	 present	in	the	body	and	equals	about	1.2	kilograms	 (2.5	pounds).	 Calcium	
accounts	 for	1	to	2	percent	of	adult	body	weight.	All	cells	need	calcium,	 but	more	than	
99	percent	 of	the	calcium	 in	the	body	is	used	to	strengthen	 bones	and	teeth.	The	
remaining	 1	percent	is	present	in	intracellular	 fluid,	blood,	and	other	extracellular	 com-
partments,	 where	it	plays	vital	roles	in	nerve	transmission,	 muscle	contraction,	 blood	
pressure	regulation,	and	the	release	of	hormones.
	 Dairy	 products,	 such	as	milk	and	cheese,	provide	about	75	percent	of	the	calcium	in	
our	diets.	Cottage	 cheese	is	an	exception	 because	 most	calcium	 is	lost	during	produc-
tion.	Bread,	rolls,	crackers,	 and	other	foods	made	with	milk	products	 are	secondary	 con-
tributors.	 Other	calcium	sources	are	leafy	greens	such	as	spinach,	 broccoli,	 sardines,	 and	
canned	salmon	(Table 	6.1). 	It	is	important	 to	note	that	much	of	the	calcium	 in	some	
leafy	green	vegetables,	 notably	spinach,	 is	not	absorbed	 owing	to	the	presence	 of	oxalate.	
Oxalate	will	bind	with	calcium,	 thereby	impeding	 its	absorption.	 Fat-	free	milk	is	the	most	
nutrient-	 dense	source	of	calcium	 because	 of	its	high	bioavailability	 and	low	caloric	
content.	 Other	common	 sources	of	calcium	in	our	diets	include	calcium-	fortified	 orange	
juice	and	other	beverages	 such	as	soy	milk,	as	well	as	calcium-	fortified	 cottage	cheese,	
breakfast	cereals,	breakfast	bars,	snacks,	and	chewable	candies.
	 Calcium	 is	absorbed	 by	both	active	transport	 and	passive	diffusion.	 Active	transport,	 a	
process	that	requires	 energy,	depends	 on	the	active	form	of	vitamin	D	and	accounts	 for	
most	absorption	 when	intakes	are	low	to	moderate.	 When	vitamin	D	is	deficient,	 absorp-
tion	decreases	 dramatically.	 At	high	intakes,	passive	transport	 becomes	 more	important.	
Unlike	sodium	and	chloride,	 and	potassium,	 the	amount	of	calcium	in	the	body	depends	
greatly	on	its	absorption	 from	the	diet.	Calcium	 requires	 an	acidic	environment	 in	the	
gastrointestinal	 tract	to	be	absorbed	 efficiently.	 Absorption	 of	calcium	is	also	affected	 by	
several	other	dietary	factors,	including	 the	presence	 of	lactose,	which	enhances	 calcium	
absorption,	 and	tannins,	 fibers,	phytates,	 and	oxalates,	 which	decreases	 calcium	absorp-
tion.	For	example,	 as	mentioned	 earlier,	spinach	 is	a	high-	calcium	 vegetable	 but	only	
about	5	percent	of	calcium	is	absorbed;	 the	rest	is	bound	by	oxalates	 and	excreted	 in	the	
feces.	Other	factors	that	enhance	 calcium	absorption	 include	blood	levels	of	parathyroid	
hormone	and	the	gradual	flow	of	digestive	contents	through	the	intestine.
	 Calcium	 is	important	 in	the	maintenance	 of	bones	and	teeth,	where	it	is	primarily	
found	with	phosphorous	 as	solid	mineral	crystals.	The	growth,	maintenance,	 and	repair	
of	bone	involves	 a	complex	 relationship	 between	 the	synthesis	 of	new	bone	by	bone-	
building	 cells,	 osteoblasts ,	and	the	breakdown	 of	bone	by	osteoclasts .	The	degradation	
and	resynthesize	 of	bone	is	termed	 bone remodeling 	(Figure	6.1).	Osteoclasts 	break	
down	or	degrade	 small	amounts	 of	bone,	and	in	doing	so	minerals	 embedded	 in	the	
bone	matrix	including	 calcium	and	phosphorous	 (discussed	 below)	are	released	 into	the	
blood.	Osteoblasts,	 on	the	other	hand,	take	up	free	calcium	 and	phosphorous	 and,	
along	with	collagen,	 form	complex	 mixtures	 called	 hydroxyapatites ,	solid	mineral	 crys-
tals	that	add	strength,	 rigidity,	and	flexibility	 to	the	bone.	Calcium	 also	plays	important	
roles	in	cell	communication	 and	the	regulation	 of	various	biological	 processes.	 Calcium	
helps	regulate	 enzymes	 and	is	necessary	 in	blood	clotting.	 It	is	involved	 in	transmitting	
chemical	 and	electrical	 signals	in	nerves	and	muscles.	 It	is	necessary	 for	the	release	of	
neurotransmitters,	 which	allow	nerve	impulses	 to	pass	from	one	nerve	to	another	 and	
from	nerves	to	other	tissues.	Inside	the	muscle	cells,	calcium	allows	the	two	contractile	
proteins,	 actin	and	myosin,	 to	interact	 to	cause	muscle	contraction.	 Calcium	 is	also	
involved	 in	blood	pressure	 regulation	 by	modulating	 the	contraction	 of	smooth	muscle	
in	the	blood-	 vessel	walls.

112		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
	 There	 is	insufficient	 data	available	 to	generate	 RDA	for	calcium.	 The	adequate	 intake	
(AI)	for	calcium	for	adults	aged	19	to	50	is	set	at	1000	mg	per	day,	which	is	based	on	the	
amount	 of	calcium	 needed	each	day	to	offset	calcium	 losses	in	urine,	feces,	and	other	
routes.	Since	absorption	 decreases	 with	age,	the	AI	for	men	and	women	age	51	and	
older	is	increased	 to	1200	mg	per	day.	For	adolescents,	 the	AI	is	higher	than	for	adults;	
that	is,	1300	mg	per	day	for	boys	and	girls	aged	9	to	18.	This	higher	number	 will	support	
bone	growth.	The	AI	for	calcium	during	pregnancy	 is	not	increased	 above	non-	pregnant	
levels.	This	is	because	 there	will	be	an	increase	 in	maternal	 calcium	 absorption	 during	
pregnancy	which	helps	supply	the	calcium	needed	for	the	fetal	skeleton.
	 In	children,	 calcium	deficiency	 results	in	rickets,	a	disease	that	may	also	be	caused	by	
vitamin	D	deficiency.	 As	mentioned	 in	Chapter 	3, 	children	 with	rickets	have	poor	bone	
mineralization	 and	characteristically	 “bowed”	 bones,	especially	 in	legs.	Most	bone	is	
formed	early	in	life.	In	children,	 bone	formation	 occurs	more	rapidly	than	breakdown.	
Even	after	growth	stops,	bone	mass	continues	 to	increase	 into	young	adulthood	 when	
peak	bone	mass	is	achieved.	 In	adults,	calcium	 deficiency	 may	cause	 osteopenia ,	the	
moderate	 loss	of	bone	mass.	In	older	adults,	calcium	deficiency	 may	cause	osteoporosis,	
a	more	serious	chronic	disease	that	can	lead	to	an	increase	 in	risk	of	bone	fracture.	 A	
low	calcium	intake	is	the	most	significant	 dietary	factor	contributing	 to	osteoporosis,	 but	
intake	alone	does	not	predict	the	risk	of	osteoporosis.	 Genetics	 as	well	as	other	dietary	
and	lifestyle	factors	also	affect	calcium	status	and	bone	mass.	As	mentioned	 earlier,	diets	
high	in	phytates,	 oxalate,	and	tannins	reduce	calcium	absorption,	 as	does	low	vitamin	D	
status.	Adequate	 protein	is	necessary	 for	bone	health	but	increasing	 protein	intake	
increases	 urinary	calcium	losses.	Despite	this,	high	protein	intakes	are	generally	 associ-
ated	with	a	lower	risk	of	osteoporosis.	This	is	because	diets	higher	in	protein	are	typically	
higher	in	calcium,	 and	bone	mass	depends	 more	on	the	ratio	of	calcium	to	protein	than	
the	amounts	of	protein	alone.
	 A	deficient	 intake	of	calcium	has	also	been	linked	to	weight	gain.	Both	cross-	sectional	
and	intervention	 studies	have	revealed	 an	inverse	relationship	 between	 calcium	 intake	Bone resorption
by osteoclastsBone fo rmation
by osteoblasts
Osteoblast Osteoclast
Resorption
Resting phaseNew bone
FormationReversal phase
Figure 6.1 	Normal	cycle	of	bone	remodeling

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		113
and	body	fat	mass,	body	weight,	and	the	relative	risk	of	obesity	(		Jacqmain	 et al.	1991,	
McCarron	 et al.	1984,	Zemel	 et al.	2000).	A	number	 of	different	 mechanisms	 have	been	
suggested	 as	being	responsible	 for	the	effect	of	a	high-	calcium	intake	on	energy	balance.	
One	possible	explanation	 is	reduced	 absorption	 of	fat	in	the	gut;	another	that	intracellu -
lar	calcium	plays	a	regulatory	 role	in	fat	metabolism.	 It	has	been	hypothesized	 that	high-	
calcium	 diets	protect	against	fat	gain	by	creating	 a	balance	 of	fat	breakdown	 over	fat	
synthesis	 in	adipocytes	 (Zemel	 et al.	2000).	Calcium	 homeostasis	 is	maintained	 through	
the	concerted	 actions	of	parathyroid	 hormone	 (PTH),	calcitonin,	 and	the	vitamin	D	
metabolites.	 When	blood	calcium	levels	fall	below	normal,	responses	 of	these	regulatory	
factors	can	stimulate	 increases	 in	intracellular	 concentrations	 of	calcium,	 thereby	redu-
cing	fat	breakdown	and	enhancing	fat	synthesis	in	adipocytes	(Zemel	 et al.	2000).
	 Calcium	 deficiency	 also	affects	other	tissues.	Because	 of	calcium’s	 role	in	muscle	con-
traction	 and	nerve	function,	 low	blood	calcium	can	cause	muscle	pain,	muscle	cramps,	
and	tingling	 in	the	hands	and	feet.	More	serious	calcium	 deficiency	 causes	muscles	 to	
tighten	and	become	unable	to	relax,	a	condition	called	 tetany.
Phosphorus
Phosphorus	 makes	up	about	1	percent	of	the	adult	body	by	weight,	and	85	percent	of	
this	is	found	as	a	structural	 component	 of	bones.	Phosphorus	 is	also	a	component	 of	
enzymes,	 genetic	material	 such	as	DNA,	and	cell	membranes.	 In	nature,	phosphorus	 is	
most	often	found	in	combination	 with	oxygen	as	phosphate.	 Although	 no	disease	is	cur-
rently	associated	 with	an	inadequate	 phosphorus	 intake,	a	deficiency	 may	contribute	 to	
bone	loss	in	older	women.	 The	body	can	efficiently	 absorb	phosphorus	 at	about	70	
percent	of	dietary	intake.	This	high	absorption	 rate,	plus	the	wide	availability	 of	phos-
phorus	in	foods,	makes	this	mineral	 less	important	 than	calcium	 in	dietary	planning.	
The	active	form	of	vitamin	D	enhances	phosphorus	absorption,	as	it	does	for	calcium.
	 Like	calcium,	 phosphorus	 is	found	in	dairy	products	 such	as	milk,	yogurt,	and	cheese,	
but	meat	and	bread	are	also	common	 sources	 of	phosphorus	 in	the	adult	diet	
(Table	6.1). 	Breakfast	 cereals,	bran,	eggs,	nuts,	and	fish	are	also	good	sources.	 About	25	
percent	 of	dietary	phosphorus	 comes	from	food	additives,	 especially	 in	baked	goods,	
cheeses,	 processed	 meats,	and	many	soft	drinks.	In	a	12-oz	(1/3	liter)	serving	of	a	soft	
drink,	there	is	about	50	to	75	mg	of	phosphorus	 existing	in	the	form	of	phosphoric	 acid.	
Reliance	 on	soft	drinks	to	supply	dietary	phosphorus	 is	not	recommended,	 because	they	
typically	 do	not	contain	any	other	essential	 nutrients.	 In	other	words,	they	have	low	
nutrient	densities.
	 Cell	membranes	 are	made	from	phospholipids,	 which	consist	of	phosphorus-	
containing	 polar	head	groups.	Therefore,	 a	primary	role	of	phosphorus	 in	the	body	is	its	
function	 as	a	component	 of	cell	membranes.	 Phosphorus,	 along	with	calcium,	 is	also	
required	 to	form	hydroxyapatite	 that	contains	 a	ratio	of	calcium	 to	phosphate	 of	2:1.	
This	crystal	compound	 is	believed	 to	contribute	 to	the	rigidity	of	bones.	Phosphorus	 is	a	
component	 of	a	high-	energy	compound	 adenosine	 triphosphate	 (ATP)	as	well	as	our	
genetic	materials	 such	as	DNA	and	RNA.	In	addition,	 phosphorus-	 containing	 com-
pounds	help	maintain	 blood	pH	by	acting	as	buffers	that	accept	and	donate	hydrogen	
ions.	Phosphorus	 is	also	involved	 in	hundreds	 of	metabolic	 reactions	 in	the	body.	In	
these	reactions,	 phosphate	 groups	are	transferred	 from	one	molecule	 to	another,	 pro-
ducing	“phosphorylated”	 molecules.	 In	fact,	some	molecules	 remain	inactive	until	they	
are	phosphorylated.	 For	example,	 the	enzyme	needed	to	break	down	glycogen	 into	its	
glucose	subunits	must	be	phosphorylated	before	it	can	work.
	 The	RDA	for	phosphorus	 is	set	at	700	mg	for	adults	19	to	50	years	of	age.	Because	
neither	absorption	 nor	urinary	losses	change	significantly	 with	age,	the	RDA	is	the	same	

114		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
for	older	adults.	For	growing	 children	 and	adolescents,	 the	RDA	is	based	on	the	phos-
phorus	intake	necessary	 to	meet	the	needs	for	bone	and	soft	tissue	growth.	There	is	no	
evidence	 that	phosphorus	 requirements	 are	increased	 during	pregnancy.	 This	is	because	
during	the	period	of	pregnancy,	 intestinal	 absorption	 increases	 by	10	percent,	 which	is	
sufficient	to	provide	the	additional	phosphorus	needed	by	the	mother	and	fetus.
	 Phosphorus	 deficiency	 results	in	loss	of	appetite,	 anemia,	 muscle	weakness,	 poor	
bone	development,	 and,	in	extreme	 cases,	death.	However,	 because	 phosphorus	 is	so	
widely	distributed	 in	food,	dietary	deficiency	 of	this	particular	 mineral	is	rare.	Marginal	
phosphorus	 deficiencies	 may	be	found	in	preterm	 infants,	vegans,	people	with	alco	holism,	
older	people	on	nutrient-	 poor	diets,	and	people	with	long-	 term	bouts	of	diarrhea.
Magnesium
There	are	approximately	 25	grams	of	magnesium	 in	the	adult	human	body.	Over	half	of	
the	body’s	magnesium	 is	in	the	bones.	Most	of	the	rest	is	in	the	muscle	and	soft	tissues,	
with	only	1	percent	 in	the	extracellular	 fluid.	Magnesium	 is	important	 for	nerve	and	
heart	function,	 and	aids	many	enzyme	reactions.	 Over	300	enzymes	 use	magnesium,	 and	
many	energy-	 yielding	compounds	in	cells	require	magnesium	to	function	properly.
	 Rich	sources	for	magnesium	 are	plant	products,	 such	as	wholegrains	 like	wheat	bran,	
broccoli,	 potatoes,	 squash,	beans,	nuts,	and	seeds	(Table 	6.1). 	Magnesium	 is	also	found	
in	leafy	greens	such	as	spinach	and	kale.	Animal	products,	 such	as	milk,	fish,	and	meats,	
supply	some	magnesium.	 Two	other	sources	of	magnesium	 are	hard	tap	water,	which	
contains	 a	high	mineral	 content,	 and	coffee.	We	normally	 absorb	about	40	and	60	
percent	 of	the	magnesium	 in	our	diets,	but	absorption	 efficiency	 can	increase	 up	to	
about	80	percent	if	intakes	are	low.	The	active	form	of	vitamin	D	can	enhance	 magne-
sium	absorption,	 whereas	 the	presence	 of	phytate	does	the	opposite.	 As	calcium	in	the	
diet	increases,	 the	absorption	 of	magnesium	 decreases,	 so	the	use	of	calcium	 supple-
ments	can	reduce	the	absorption	of	magnesium.
	 The	majority	 of	magnesium	 in	the	body	is	associated	 with	bone	where	it	is	essential	
for	the	maintenance	 of	structure.	 Magnesium	 is	a	co-	factor	for	over	300	enzymes.	 It	is	
necessary	 for	the	production	 of	energy	from	carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins.	 In	these	
reactions,	 magnesium	 functions	 as	either	a	stabilizer	 of	ATP	or	an	enzyme	activator.	
Magnesium	 is	also	involved	 in	regulating	 calcium	 homeostasis	 and	is	needed	for	the	
action	of	vitamin	D	and	many	hormones,	including	parathyroid	hormone.
	 The	adult	RDA	for	magnesium	 is	about	400	mg	per	day	for	men	and	about	310	mg	per	
day	for	women.	The	daily	value	used	to	express	magnesium	 content	on	food	and	supple-
ment	labels	is	400	mg.	Adult	men	consume	 an	average	of	320	mg	daily,	whereas	 women	
consume	 closer	to	220	mg	daily.	This	suggests	 that	many	of	us	should	improve	 our	con-
sumption	 of	magnesium-	 rich	foods,	such	as	wholegrain	 breads	and	cereals.	If	dietary	means	
are	not	enough,	 a	balanced	 multivitamin	 and	mineral	 supplement	 containing	 approxi-
mately	100	mg	of	magnesium	 can	help	close	the	gap	between	 intake	and	needs.	As	with	
most	other	supplements, 	the	typical	form	used	in	supplements 	is	not	as	well	absorbed 	as	
the	forms	of	magnesium	 found	in	foods,	but	still	contributes	 to	meeting	magnesium	 needs.
	 Magnesium	 deficiency	 is	rare	in	the	general	population,	 but	is	sometimes	 seen	in	
those	with	alcoholism,	 malnutrition,	 kidney	disease,	and	gastrointestinal	 disease,	as	well	
as	those	who	use	diuretics	 that	increase	 magnesium	 loss	via	urine.	Deficiency	 symptoms	
include	 nausea,	 muscle	cramping,	 irritability,	 heart	palpitations,	 and	an	increase	 in	
blood	pressure.	 There	is	a	great	deal	of	interest	in	the	possibility	 that	mild	magnesium	
deficiency	 may	increase	 risk	for	cardiovascular	 disease	(Alghamdi	 et al.	2005,	Bobkowski	
et al.	2005,	Weglicki	 et al.	2005).	Some	research	 also	suggests	 that	magnesium	 deficiency	
may	predispose	people	to	type	2	diabetes	(Guerrero-	 Romero	 et al.	2005).

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		115
Sulfur
The	body	does	not	use	sulfur	on	its	own	as	a	nutrient.	 Sulfur	is	mentioned	 here	because	
it	is	a	major	mineral	 that	occurs	in	essential	 nutrients	 such	as	the	vitamins	 biotin	and	
thiamin	 and	the	amino	acids	methionine	 and	cysteine.	 Being	part	of	the	amino	acids	
methionine	 and	cysteine,	 sulfur	is	important	 for	protein	synthesis.	 Sulfur	plays	a	role	in	
determining	 the	contours	 or	structure	 of	protein	molecules.	 The	sulfur-	containing	 side	
chains	in	cysteine	 molecules	 can	link	to	each	other,	forming	 disulfide	 bonds,	which	sta-
bilize	the	protein	 structure.	 Sulfur	also	helps	in	the	balance	 of	acids	and	bases	in	
the	body.
	 There	 is	no	recommended	 intake	for	sulfur.	Proteins	 supply	the	sulfur	we	need.	As	
such,	no	deficiencies	are	known	when	protein	needs	are	met	( Table	6.1).
Trace minerals
As	mentioned	 above,	essential	 minerals	 are	classified	 as	major	minerals	 or	trace	miner-
als,	depending	 on	how	much	we	need.	Major	minerals	 are	required	 in	amounts	 greater	
than	100	mg/day,	 whereas	 less	than	100	mg	of	each	trace	mineral	 is	required	 daily.	
Information	 about	trace	minerals	 is	one	of	the	most	rapidly	expanding	 areas	of	know-
ledge	in	nutrition.	 With	the	exception	 of	iron	and	iodine,	the	importance	 of	trace	min-
erals	to	humans	 has	been	recognized	 only	within	the	past	50	years.	Although	 we	need	
100	mg	or	less	of	each	trace	mineral	 daily,	they	are	just	as	essential	 to	good	health	as	
major	minerals.	 Further	 details	on	some	of	the	major	trace	minerals,	 including	 iron,	
zinc,	selenium,	iodine,	chromium,	copper,	and	fluoride,	are	provided	as	follows.
Iron
Of	all	the	trace	minerals,	 iron	(Fe)	is	likely	the	most	studied.	Its	role	as	a	major	constitu-
ent	of	blood	was	identified	 in	the	eighteenth	 century	when	iron	tablets	were	available	
for	treating	 young	women	in	whom	“coloring	 matter”	was	lacking	in	the	blood.	Today,	
we	know	that	the	red	color	in	blood	is	due	to	the	iron-	containing	 protein	called	 hemo-
globin	and	that	a	deficiency	 of	iron	decreases	 hemoglobin	 production.	 Although	 the	
importance	 of	dietary	iron	has	long	been	recognized,	 iron	deficiency	 is	still	one	of	the	
most	common	 nutrition	 deficiencies	 worldwide	 today.	Iron	is	found	in	every	living	cell,	
adding	up	to	about	5	grams	(1	teaspoon)	for	the	entire	body.
	 Iron	in	the	diet	comes	from	both	plant	and	animal	sources.	 Much	of	the	iron	in	
animal	products	 is	heme iron 	which	is	part	of	a	chemical	 complex	 found	in	animal	
protein	such	as	hemoglobin	 in	blood	and	 myoglobin 	in	muscle.	Meat,	poultry,	and	fish	
are	good	sources	of	heme	iron.	Heme	iron	accounts	 for	10	to	15	percent	of	the	dietary	
iron.	Leafy	green	vegetables,	 legumes,	 and	whole	and	enriched	 grains	are	good	sources	
of	non- heme iron ,	which	may	not	be	absorbed	 as	well	as	heme	iron.	Most	of	the	iron	in	
bakery	items	has	been	added	to	refined	flour	in	the	enrichment	 process.	Another	source	
of	non-	heme	iron	in	the	diet	is	iron	cooking	 utensils	from	which	iron	leaches	into	food.	
Leaching	 is	enhanced	 by	acidic	foods.	For	example,	 spaghetti	 sauce	cooked	in	a	glass	
pan	contains	 about	3	mg	of	iron,	but	the	same	sauce	cooked	in	an	iron	skillet	may	
contain	 as	much	as	50	mg.	Milk	is	a	poor	source	of	iron.	A	common	 cause	of	iron-	
deficiency	 anemia	in	children	 is	an	overreliance	 on	milk,	coupled	 with	an	insufficient	
meat	intake.	Vegetarians	 who	omit	all	animal	products	 are	particularly	 susceptible	 to	
iron-	deficiency	anemia	because	of	their	lack	of	dietary	heme	iron.
	 The	bioavailability	 of	iron	is	complex	 and	influenced	 by	many	factors,	including	 its	
form,	a	person’s	 iron	status,	and	the	presence	 or	absence	 of	other	dietary	components.	

116  Micronutrients: minerals and water
For	example,	 the	bioavailability	 of	heme	iron	is	two	to	three	times	greater	than	of	non-	
heme	iron.	Absorption	 of	heme	iron	is	high	and	most	affected	 by	iron	status.	However,	
many	factors	can	influence	 absorption	 of	non-	heme	iron.	One	of	the	most	important	
factors	affecting	 non-	heme	iron	absorption	 is	its	ionic	state.	Non-	heme	iron	is	found	in	
two	ionic	forms	in	foods:	the	more	oxidized	 ferric iron 	(Fe3+)	and	the	more	reduced	
ferrous iron 	(Fe2+).	The	more	reduced	 ferrous	form	is	found	to	be	more	readily	
absorbed.	 One	of	the	best-	known	enhancers	 of	iron	absorption	 is	vitamin	C,	which	con-
verts	ferric	iron	into	ferrous	iron	in	the	intestinal	 lumen.	Thus,	consuming	 vitamin	C	in	
a	meal	that	contains	 non-	heme	iron	enhances	 the	bioavailability	 of	the	iron.	Stomach	
acid	also	helps	reduce	ferric	iron	to	ferrous	iron,	and	some	studies	suggest	that	the	
chronic	 use	of	antacids	 to	neutralize	 stomach	 acidity	can	decrease	 non-	heme	iron	
absorption.
	 Dietary	 factors	that	interfere	 with	the	absorption	 of	non-	heme	iron	include	fiber.	
Phytate	found	in	cereals,	tannins	found	in	tea,	and	oxalates	 found	in	leafy	greens	such	
as	spinach	can	prevent	absorption	 by	binding	iron	in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	The	pres-
ence	of	other	minerals	 may	also	decrease	 iron	absorption.	 For	example,	 calcium	supple-
ments	decrease	iron	absorption,	particularly	when	both	are	consumed	at	the	same	meal.
	 Iron	is	part	of	the	hemoglobin	 in	red	blood	cells	and	myoglobin	 in	muscle	cells.	
Hemoglobin	 molecules	 transport	 oxygen	from	lungs	to	cells	and	assist	in	the	return	of	
some	carbon	dioxide	from	cells	to	the	lungs	for	excretion.	 Without	 sufficient	 hemo-
globin,	oxygen	availability	 to	tissues	decreases.	 This	may	result	in	lack	of	energy	and	
fatigue.	Myoglobin	 is	another	 oxygen-	carrying	 molecule.	 It	acts	as	a	reservoir	 of	oxygen,	
releasing	 oxygen	to	muscle	cells	when	needed	for	energy	production.	 In	addition	 to	
transporting	 and	delivering	 oxygen	to	cells,	iron	is	also	needed	for	other	aspects	of	
energy	metabolism.	 For	example,	 it	is	a	basic	component	 of	cytochromes ,	which	are	
heme-	containing	 protein	complexes	 that	function	 in	the	electron	 transport	 chain.	Cyto-
chromes	 serve	as	electron	 carriers,	 allowing	 for	the	conversion	 of	adenosine	 diphosphate	
(ADP)	to	adenosine	 triphosphate	 (ATP).	Among	other	functions	 of	iron	include	helping	
to	metabolize	drugs	and	remove	toxins	from	the	body,	and	serving	as	a	co-	 factor	for	anti -
oxidant	enzymes	that	stabilize	free	radicals	and	for	enzymes	needed	for	DNA	synthesis.
	 The	daily	adult	RDA	for	iron	for	men	aged	19	to	50	and	for	women	aged	over	50	is	
8	mg.	For	women	aged	19	to	50	the	RDA	is	18	mg.	The	higher	RDA	for	young	and	
middle-	aged	women	is	primarily	 because	of	menstrual	 blood	loss.	Women	who	menstru-
ate	more	heavily	and	longer	than	average	may	need	even	more	dietary	iron	than	those	
who	have	lighter	and	shorter	flows.	The	daily	value	used	to	express	iron	content	on	food	
and	supplement	 labels	is	18	mg,	but	it	increases	 to	27	mg	for	pregnant	 women.	 Most	
women	do	not	consume	 18	mg	of	iron	daily.	The	average	daily	intake	is	closer	to	13	mg,	
while	in	men	it	is	about	18	mg	per	day.	Therefore,	 women	should	seek	out	iron-	fortified	
foods	such	as	ready-	to-eat	breakfast	 cereals	that	contain	at	least	50	percent	of	the	daily	
value.	Use	of	a	balanced	 multivitamin	 and	mineral	 supplement	 containing	 up	to	100	
percent	of	daily	value	for	iron	is	another	option.
	 Iron	deficiency	 is	the	most	common	 nutritional	 deficiency	 in	the	United	States	and	
the	world.	Because	 iron	requirements	 increase	 during	growth	and	development,	 iron	
deficiency	 is	typically	 seen	in	infants,	growing	 children,	 and	pregnant	 women.	 Iron	is	
lost	in	the	blood	each	month	during	the	menstrual	 cycle.	Therefore,	 women	of	child-
bearing	age	are	also	at	increased	 risk	for	iron	deficiency.	 Although	 iron	deficiency	 was	
once	thought	 to	cause	only	anemia,	 scientists	 now	know	that	it	can	influence	 many	
aspects	of	health.	Mild	iron	deficiency	 is	associated	 with	fatigue	and	impaired	 physical	
work	performance.	 In	addition,	 it	can	cause	behavioral	 abnormalities	 and	impaired	 cog-
nitive	function	 in	children	 (Black	2003,	Bryan	 et al.	2004).	Mild	iron	deficiency	 also	
impairs	body	temperature	 regulation,	 especially	 in	cold	conditions	 (Rosenzweig	 and	

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		117
Volpe	1999)	and	may	negatively	 influence	 the	immune	 function	 (Cunningham-	 Rundles	
and	McNeeley	 2005,	Failla	2003).	Some	studies	also	suggest	that	mild	iron	deficiency	
during	pregnancy	 increases	 the	risk	of	premature	 delivery,	 low	birth	weight,	and	
maternal	mortality	(Gambling	 et al.	2003).
	 When	 iron	is	deficient,	 hemoglobin	 cannot	be	produced.	 When	not	enough	hemo-
globin	is	available,	 the	red	blood	cells	that	are	formed	are	fewer	than	normal	and	are	
unable	to	deliver	adequate	 oxygen	to	the	tissues.	This	is	known	as	iron deficiency 
anemia.	The	signs	and	symptoms	 of	anemia	include	weakness,	 headache,	 fatigue,	rapid	
heart	rate,	shortness	 of	breath,	lack	of	concentration,	 and	an	inability	 to	regulate	 body	
temperature,	 all	of	which	may	be	ascribed	 to	inadequate	 oxygen	supply	to	cells.	As	estim-
ated	by	the	World	Health	Organization,	 as	much	as	30	percent	of	the	world’s	population	
suffer	from	iron	deficiency	 anemia.	Women	of	reproductive	 age	are	at	risk	for	iron	defi-
ciency	anemia	because	 of	iron	loss	due	to	menstruation.	 Iron	deficiency	 is	common	
among	pregnant	 women,	despite	the	absence	 of	menstruation.	 This	is	because	the	need	
for	iron	is	increased	 due	to	the	expansion	 of	maternal	 blood	volume	and	growth	of	the	
fetus.	Iron	deficiency	 is	also	common	 in	children	 and	adolescents.	 The	rapid	growth	and	
increase	 in	muscle	mass	and	blood	volume	increase	 iron	needs.	Athletes	 are	another	
group	at	risk	for	iron	deficiency	 due	to	greater	iron	loss	coupled	 with	a	low	iron	intake	
as	a	consequence	 of	vigorous	 training.	 It	is	recommended	 that	dietary	intake	of	iron	
required	 by	athletes	should	be	at	least	30	percent	more	than	that	of	the	general	popula-
tion	(Institute	of	Medicine	(US)	Panel	on	Micronutrients	2001).
Zinc
The	essentiality	 of	zinc	in	the	human	diet	was	only	recognized	 in	the	1960s	in	Egypt	and	
Iran,	when	a	syndrome	 of	growth	retardation	 and	poor	sexual	development,	 seen	in	
Egyptian	 and	Iranian	men	consuming	 a	diet	based	on	vegetable	 protein,	 was	alleviated	
by	supplemental	 zinc.	Although	 the	diet	was	not	low	in	zinc,	it	was	found	that	the	absorp-
tion	of	zinc	was	reduced	 due	to	a	lack	of	animal	protein	and	almost	exclusive	 use	of	
unleavened	 bread.	Unleavened	 bread	is	very	high	in	phytate,	 which	can	interfere	 with	
zinc	bioavailability.	 Zinc	deficiencies	 were	first	observed	 in	the	United	States	in	the	early	
1970s	in	hospitalized	 patients	 who	were	fed	with	an	intravenous	 injection	 of	certain	
amino	acids.	Such	amino	acid	formulas	 are	low	in	trace	minerals	 compared	 to	whole	
protein.
	 In	general,	 protein-	rich	diets	are	also	rich	in	zinc.	Animal	foods	supply	almost	half	of	
an	individual’s	 zinc	intake.	Major	sources	of	zinc	are	beef,	poultry,	eggs,	milk,	seafood,	
bread,	and	fortified	 breakfast	 cereals.	Animal	foods	are	our	primary	 sources	of	zinc	
because	 zinc	from	animal	sources	is	not	bound	to	phytate.	 Wholegrains	 are	also	a	good	
source,	but	refined	grains	are	not	because	 zinc	is	lost	in	milling	and	not	added	back	in	
enrichment.	 Grain	products	 leavened	 with	yeast	provide	 more	zinc	than	unleavened	
products	 because	 the	yeast	leavening	 of	breads	reduces	 the	phytate	content.	 Because	
zinc,	iron,	and	calcium	 share	the	same	transport	 proteins	 in	the	intestinal	 cells,	high	
intake	of	iron	and	calcium	can	decrease	zinc	absorption.
	 Zinc	is	the	most	abundant	 intracellular	 trace	mineral.	 It	is	found	in	the	cytosol,	
organelles,	 and	nucleus.	 Approximately	 200	enzymes	 require	zinc	as	a	co-	factor	for	activ-
ity.	For	example,	 zinc	is	involved	 in	the	functioning	 of	superoxide	 dismutase,	 which	is	
vital	for	protecting	 cells	from	free	radical	damage.	 It	is	also	needed	by	enzymes	 that	
function	 in	the	synthesis	 of	DNA	and	RNA,	in	carbohydrate	 metabolism,	 in	acid–base	
balance,	 and	in	a	reaction	 that	is	necessary	 for	folate	absorption.	 Zinc	plays	a	role	in	the	
storage,	 release,	and	function	 of	insulin,	the	mobilization	 of	vitamin	A	from	the	liver,	
and	the	stabilization	 of	the	cell	membrane.	 It	influences	 the	hormonal	 regulation	 of	cell	

118		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
division	and	is	therefore	 needed	for	the	growth	and	repair	of	tissues.	In	addition,	 zinc	
may	reduce	the	risk	for	developing	 cancer	by	improving	 immune	 function	 while	promot-
ing	apoptosis	 in	cancer	cells	(Prasad	 et al.	2009).	Although	 zinc	supplements	 are	often	
touted	as	helping	to	“cure”	the	common	 cold,	most	studies	do	not	support	 this	claim	
(Jackson	 et al.	2000).
	 The	adult	RDA	for	zinc	is	11	mg	for	men	and	8	mg	for	women.	The	values	were	based	
on	the	amount	to	cover	daily	losses	of	zinc.	During	pregnancy,	 the	recommendation	 for	
zinc	is	increased	 on	account	 of	the	zinc	that	accumulates	 in	maternal	 and	fetal	tissues.	
The	daily	value	used	to	express	zinc	content	on	food	and	supplement	 labels	is	15	mg.	
There	are	no	indications	 of	moderate	 or	severe	zinc	deficiencies	 in	an	otherwise	 healthy	
adult	population.	 It	is	likely,	however,	 that	some	people	such	as	women,	poor	children,	
vegans,	the	elderly,	and	people	with	alcoholism	 can	have	a	borderline	 zinc	deficiency.	
People	who	show	deterioration	 in	taste	sensation,	 recurring	 infections,	 poor	growth,	or	
slow	wound	healing	should	have	their	zinc	status	checked.
	 The	symptoms	 of	zinc	deficiency	 include	poor	growth	and	sexual	development,	 skin	
rashes,	impaired	 immune	 function,	 and	delayed	 sexual	maturation.	 These	symptoms	
reflect	the	fact	that	zinc	is	important	 in	protein	synthesis	 and	gene	expression.	 The	risk	
of	zinc	deficiency	 is	greater	in	areas	of	the	world	where	the	diet	is	high	in	phytate,	 fiber,	
tannins,	 and	oxalates.	 Such	a	risk	is	also	higher	in	the	elderly,	low-	income	children,	 and	
vegetarians.	 Supplements	 have	been	shown	to	reduce	the	incidence	 of	diarrhea	 and	
infections	in	children	in	developing	countries	(Fraker	 et al.	2000).
Selenium
Although	 the	discovery	 of	selenium	 can	be	traced	back	more	than	150	years,	the	essenti-
ality	of	this	trace	mineral	in	human	nutrition	 was	not	recognized	 until	the	1960s.	Since	
that	time,	much	has	been	learned	about	how	the	body	uses	selenium	 for	carrying	 out	
various	vital	functions.	 Selenium	 exists	in	many	readily	absorbed	 forms.	Like	zinc,	
selenium	 has	an	indirect	antioxidant	 function.	 Selenium’s	 best	understood	 role	is	as	part	
of	an	enzyme,	 such	as	glutathione	 peroxidase,	 that	works	to	reduce	damage	to	cell	mem-
branes	from	electron-	 seeking,	 free-	radical	compounds.	 Food	contains	 several	forms	of	
selenium,	 but	typically	 it	is	associated	 with	the	amino	acid	methionine.	 Usually	methio-
nine	contains	 sulfur.	However,	 selenium	 often	substitutes	 for	sulfur	due	to	the	similarity	
in	chemical	 characteristics	 between	 sulfur	and	selenium.	 When	methionine	 contains	
selenium,	it	is	called	selenomethionine.
	 The	best	animal	sources	of	selenium	 are	nuts,	seafood,	 and	meats.	Fruits,	vegetables,	
and	drinking	 water	are	generally	 poor	sources.	 Grains	can	be	a	good	plant	source,	
depending	 on	the	selenium	 content	of	the	soil	where	they	were	grown.	For	example,	 in	
some	areas	of	China	where	the	soil	selenium	 content	is	very	low,	grains	contain	negli-
gible	amounts.	 However,	 in	some	parts	of	the	western	 United	States	where	the	soil	
selenium	 content	is	very	high,	grains	may	contain	toxic	levels.	Soil	selenium	 content	can	
have	a	significant	 impact	upon	the	selenium	 intake	of	populations	 consuming	 primarily	
locally	grown	food.	However,	 as	we	normally	 eat	a	variety	of	foods	supplied	 from	many	
geographic	 areas,	it	is	unlikely	 that	low	soil	selenium	 in	a	few	locations	 will	mean	inad-
equate	selenium	 in	our	diets.	Major	selenium	 contributors	 to	the	adult	diet	are	animal	
and	grain	products.
	 The	bioavailability	 of	selenium	 in	foods	is	high,	and	absorption	 of	this	mineral	in	the	
intestine	 is	not	regulated.	 Therefore,	 almost	all	selenium	 that	is	consumed	 enters	the	
blood.	Once	selenium	 is	absorbed,	 homeostasis	 is	maintained	 by	regulating	 its	excretion	
in	the	urine.	As	mentioned	 earlier,	selenium	 is	an	essential	 part	of	the	enzyme	gluta-
thione	peroxidase.	 Glutathione	 peroxidase	 neutralizes	 peroxides	 so	that	they	no	longer	

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		119
form	free	radicals	which	cause	oxidative	 damage.	 By	reducing	 free	radical	formation,	
selenium	 can	spare	some	of	the	requirement	 for	vitamin	E,	because	vitamin	E	is	used	to	
stop	the	action	of	free	radicals	once	they	are	produced	 (Figure	6.2).	Recall 	in	Chapter 	5 	
that	vitamin	 E	helps	prevent	 attacks	on	cell	membranes	 by	donating	 electrons	 to	
electron-	 seeking	compounds.	 In	this	regard,	it	seems	possible	 that	selenium	 and	vitamin	
E	can	work	together	 toward	the	same	goal.	However,	 this	claim	remains	 to	be	seen,	as	a	
recent	study	has	failed	to	show	that	the	supplementation	 of	selenium	 in	conjunction	
with	vitamin	E	would	reduce	the	risk	for	prostate	 cancer	(Klein	 et al.	2011).	Selenium	 is	
also	needed	 for	synthesis	 of	the	thyroid	 hormones,	 which	regulate	 the	basal	
metabolic	rate.
	 The	RDA	for	selenium	 is	55	µg	per	day	for	adults.	This	intake	maximizes	 the	activity	
of	selenium-	 dependent	 enzyme	glutathione	 peroxidase	 in	the	blood.	The	daily	value	
used	to	express	selenium	 content	on	food	and	supplement	 labels	is	70	µg.	In	general,	
adults	meet	the	RDA,	consuming	 on	average	105	µg	of	selenium	 each	day.	Although	
selenium	 could	prove	to	play	a	role	in	immune	 function	 and	the	prevention	 of	cancer,	
at	this	point	it	seems	premature	 to	recommend	 selenium	 supplementation	 for	this	
purpose.
	 Symptoms	 of	selenium	 deficiency	 include	muscle	pain,	discomfort,	 and	weakness.	 A	
form	of	heart	disease	called	Keshan	disease	may	also	occur	with	selenium	 deficiency.	
Keshan	disease	is	a	congestive	 cardiomyopathy	 caused	by	a	combination	 of	dietary	defi-
ciency	of	selenium	 and	the	presence	 of	a	mutated	 strain	of	Coxsackievirus,	 named	after	
the	Keshan	County	of	Heilongjiang	 province,	 northeast	 China,	where	symptoms	 were	
first	noted.	The	treatment	 for	these	disorders	 is	selenium	 supplementation.	 It	is	con-
sidered	that	selenium	 supplements	 may	relieve	most	of	the	symptoms	 of	Keshan	disease	
and	reduce	its	incidence	(Chen	2012).
Iodine
Iodine	is	needed	for	the	synthesis	 of	thyroid	hormones	 which	regulate	 growth,	repro-
duction,	 and	energy	metabolism.	 In	the	early	1900s,	iodine	deficiency	 was	common	 in	
the	central	United	States	and	Canada,	 and	a	condition	 associated	 with	deficiency	 of	
Glutathione
peroxidose
(selenium)
Neutralized
peroxides
(H2O)
Vitamin EH2O2 H2O2
H2O2
Free
radicalsNeutralized
free radicals
Figure 6.2 		The	action	of	the	selenium-containing	 enzyme	glutathione	 peroxidase.	 The	
enzyme	neutralizes	 peroxides	 before	they	form	free	radicals,	 which	will	then	
spare	some	of	the	need	for	vitamin	E

120		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
iodine	is	known	as	goiter,	an	enlarged	 thyroid	gland.	The	soils	in	these	areas	have	low	
iodine	content.	 In	the	1920s,	researchers	 in	Ohio	found	that	low	doses	of	iodine	given	
to	children	 over	a	four-	year	period	could	prevent	goiter.	This	finding	led	to	the	addition	
of	iodine	to	salt	beginning	 in	the	1920s.	Today,	many	nations	such	as	Canada	require	
iodine	fortification	 of	salt.	In	the	United	States,	salt	may	be	purchased	 either	iodized	or	
plain.	Iodine	deficiency	 still	remains	 a	world	health	problem.	 About	2	billion	people	
worldwide	 are	at	risk	of	iodine	deficiency,	 and	approximately	 800	million	of	these	people	
have	suffered	the	various	effects	of	the	deficiency.
	 Saltwater	 fish,	seafood,	 and	iodized	salt	contain	various	forms	of	iodine.	Dairy	prod-
ucts	may	contain	iodine	because	 of	the	iodine-	containing	 additives	 used	in	cattle	feed	
and	the	use	of	iodine	containing	 disinfectants	 on	cows,	milking	machines,	 and	storage	
tanks.	Sea	salt	found	in	health	food	stores,	however,	 is	generally	 not	a	good	source	
because	the	iodine	is	lost	during	processing.
	 Iodine 	is	highly	bioavailable, 	being	almost	completely 	absorbed 	in	the	small	intestine	
and,	to	a	lesser	extent,	the	stomach. 	Once	in	the	blood,	iodine	is	rapidly	taken	up	by	the	
thyroid	gland	and	used	for	the	production 	of	thyroid	hormones. 	Thyroid	hormones 	are	
synthesized	 using	iodine	and	the	amino	acid	tyrosine.	 If	a	person’s	 iodine	intake	is	insuffi-
cient,	the	thyroid	gland	enlarges	 as	it	attempts	 to	take	up	more	iodine	from	the	blood-
stream.	This	eventually 	leads	to	the	development 	of	goiter.	Simple	goiter	is	a	painless	
condition,	 but	if	uncorrected	 it	can	lead	to	pressure	 on	the	trachea,	which	may	cause	diffi-
culty	in	breathing.	 Although	 iodine	can	prevent	goiter	formation,	 it	does	not	significantly 	
shrink	a	goiter	once	it	has	formed.	Surgical	removal	may	be	required	in	severe	cases.
	 The	RDA	for	iodine	for	adults	is	150	µg	to	support	thyroid	gland	function.	 This	is	the	
same	as	the	daily	value	used	to	express	iodine	content	on	food	and	supplement	 labels.	A	
half-	teaspoon	 of	iodine-	fortified	 salt	supplies	 that	amount.	 Most	adults	consume	 more	
iodine	than	the	RDA.	The	iodine	in	our	diets	adds	up	because	dairies	and	fast-	food	res-
taurants	 use	it	as	a	sterilizing	 agent,	bakeries	 use	it	as	a	dough	conditioner,	 food	produc-
ers	use	it	as	part	of	food	colorants,	 and	it	is	added	to	salt.	There	is	concern,	 however,	
that	vegans	may	not	consume	enough	unless	iodized	salt	is	used.
	 Iodine	 deficiency	 reduces	the	production	 of	thyroid	hormones.	 As	a	result,	metabolic	
rate	slows	down,	causing	fatigue	and	weight	gain.	As	mentioned	 earlier,	the	most	obvious	
sign	of	deficiency	 is	goiter,	an	enlarged	 thyroid	gland.	If	iodine	is	deficient	 during	preg-
nancy,	it	increases	 the	risk	of	stillbirth	 or	fetal	death	and	spontaneous	 abortion.	 Defi-
ciency	also	can	cause	a	condition	 called	 cretinism 	in	offspring.	 Cretinism	 is	characterized	
by	symptoms	 such	as	mental	retardation,	 deaf	mutism,	 and	growth	failure.	Iodine	defi-
ciency	during	childhood	 and	adolescence	 may	also	result	in	goiter	and	impaired	 mental	
function.
Chromium
The	importance	 of	chromium	 in	human	diets	has	been	recognized	 only	in	the	past	40	
years.	The	most-	studied	function	 of	chromium	 is	the	maintenance	 of	glucose	uptake	
into	cells.	Our	current	 understanding	 is	that	chromium	 enters	the	cell	and	acts	to	
enhance	 the	transport	 of	glucose	and	amino	acids	across	the	cell	membrane	 by	aiding	
insulin	function.	 On	the	market	of	sports	supplements,	 chromium	 is	recognized	 by	many	
as	the	popular	 supplement	 chromium	 picolinate,	 which	is	promoted	 to	increase	 lean	
body	mass,	although	this	claim	has	yet	to	be	validated.
	 Specific	 data	regarding	 the	chromium	 content	of	various	foods	are	limited,	and	most	
food	composition	 tables	do	not	include	values	for	this	trace	mineral.	 Egg	yolks,	whole-
grains,	organ	meats,	mushrooms,	 nuts,	and	beer	are	good	sources.	 Milk,	vegetables,	
fruits	as	well	as	refined	carbohydrates	 such	as	white	breads,	pasta,	and	white	rice	are	

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		121
poor	sources.	 The	amount	of	chromium	 in	foods	is	closely	tied	to	the	local	soil	content	
of	chromium.	 To	provide	yourself	with	a	good	chromium	 intake,	regularly	 choose	who-
legrains	in	place	of	mostly	refined	grains.
	 Chromium	 is	needed	for	the	hormone	 insulin	to	function	 properly	 in	the	body	and	
appears	 to	be	especially	 important	 in	regulating	 its	function	 in	people	with	type	2	
diabetes.	 When	carbohydrates	 are	consumed,	 insulin	is	released	 and	binds	to	receptors	
in	cell	membranes.	 This	binding	triggers	the	uptake	of	glucose	by	cells	and	an	increase	
in	protein	and	lipid	synthesis.	 Chromium	 is	part	of	a	small	peptide	that	stabilizes	 the	
bound	insulin,	thereby	augmenting	 insulin	action.	With	chromium	 deficient,	 it	takes	
more	insulin	to	produce	 the	same	effect.	Chromium	 is	also	required	 for	normal	growth	
and	development	 in	children.	 In	addition,	 it	increases	 lean	mass	and	decreases	 fat	mass	
–	at	least	in	laboratory	 animals	(McNamara	 and	Valdez	2005,	Page	 et al.	1993).	Because	
of	this,	chromium	 in	a	form	called	chromium	 picolinate	 has	been	widely	marketed	 as	an	
ergogenic	 aid	for	athletes	(Lukaski	 1999).	However,	 the	most	controlled	 studies	investi-
gating	the	effect	of	this	supplement	 on	athletic	performance	 and	blood	glucose	regula-
tion	have	shown	no	beneficial	outcomes	(Pittler	 et al.	2003,	Vincent	2003).
	 The	adequate	 intake	(AI)	for	chromium	 is	35	µg	per	day	for	men	and	25	µg	per	day	
for	women	based	on	the	amount	present	in	a	balanced	 diet.	The	AI	is	increased	 during	
pregnancy	 and	lactation.	 The	AI	for	older	adults	is	slightly	lower	because	 energy	intake	
decreases	 with	age.	Average	 adult	intakes	are	estimated	 at	30	µg	per	day,	but	could	be	
somewhat	higher.
	 Symptoms	 of	chromium	 deficiency	 include	impaired	 blood	glucose	tolerance	 with	
diabetes-	 like	symptoms	 such	as	elevated	 blood	glucose	levels	and	increased	 insulin	levels.	
Chromium	 deficiency	 may	also	cause	elevated	 blood	cholesterol	 and	triglyceride	 levels.	
The	mechanism	 by	which	chromium	 influences	 cholesterol	 metabolism	 is	not	known	
but	may	involve	enzymes	that	control	cholesterol	synthesis.
Copper
Copper	is	present	in	two	forms:	its	oxidized	 cupric	(Cu2+)	and	its	reduced	 cuprous	form	
(Cu+).	Note	that,	as	with	iron,	the	ending	“-ous”	represents	 the	more	reduced	 form,	
whereas	 the	ending	“-ic”	represents	 the	more	oxidized	 form.	Copper	is	a	co-	factor	for	
several	enzymes	 involved	 in	a	wide	variety	of	processes	 such	as	ATP	production	 and	pro-
tection	from	free	radicals.	 Cupper	 and	iron	share	many	similarities	 in	terms	of	food	
sources,	absorption,	and	functions	in	the	body.
	 Copper	 is	found	primarily	 in	liver,	seafood,	 cocoa,	legumes,	 nuts,	seeds,	and	whole-
grain	breads	and	cereals.	As	with	many	other	trace	elements,	 soil	content	 affects	the	
amount	of	copper	in	plant	foods.
	 About	 30	to	40	percent	of	the	copper	in	a	typical	diet	is	absorbed.	 The	absorption	 of	
copper	is	affected	 by	the	presence	 of	other	minerals	 and	vitamins	 in	the	diet.	The	zinc	
content	of	the	diet	can	have	a	major	impact	upon	copper	absorption.	 There	is	antago-
nism	in	absorption	 between	 zinc	and	copper.	When	zinc	intake	is	high,	it	simulates	 the	
synthesis	 of	protein	 metallothionein	 in	mucosal	 cells.	Metallothionein	 preferentially	
binds	copper	rather	than	zinc,	thereby	preventing	 copper	from	being	moved	out	of	
mucosal	 cells	into	the	blood.	Copper	absorption	 is	also	reduced	 by	high	intakes	of	iron	
and	manganese.	 Other	factors	affecting	 copper	absorption	 include	vitamin	C	and	large	
doses	of	antacid,	 which	inhibit	copper	absorption	 and,	over	the	long	term,	may	cause	
copper	deficiency.
	 Once	 absorbed,	 copper	binds	to	albumin,	 a	protein	in	the	blood,	and	travels	to	the	
liver,	where	it	binds	to	the	protein	ceruloplasmin	 for	delivery	to	other	tissues.	Copper	
can	be	removed	from	the	body	and	subsequently	eliminated	in	the	feces.

122		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
	 Copper	 is	a	co-	factor	for	many	enzymes	 involved	 in	reduction–oxidation	 reactions	
important	 in	ATP	production,	 iron	metabolism,	 neural	function,	 antioxidant	 function,	
and	connective	 tissue	synthesis.	 For	example,	 copper	serves	as	a	co-	factor	for	the	enzyme	
cytochrome	 c	oxidase,	 which	combines	 electrons,	 hydrogen	 ions,	and	oxygen	to	form	
water	in	the	electron	 transport	 chain.	Copper	is	also	a	co-	factor	for	the	enzyme	superox-
ide	dismutase,	 which	converts	 the	superoxide	 free	radical	(O2–)	into	the	less	harmful	
hydrogen	peroxide	molecule	(H2O2).	The	synthesis	of	norepinephrine,	a	neurotransmit -
ter,	and	collagen	needed	for	connective	tissue	also	requires	copper.
	 The	RDA	for	copper	is	900	µg	daily	for	adults,	based	on	the	amount	needed	for	activ-
ity	of	copper-	containing	 proteins	 and	enzymes	 in	the	body.	The	average	adult	intake	is	
about	1	to	1.6	mg	per	day.	The	form	of	copper	typically	 found	in	multivitamin	 and	
mineral	 supplements	 is	not	readily	absorbed.	 It	is	best	to	rely	on	food	sources	to	meet	
copper	needs.	The	copper	status	of	adults	appears	to	be	good,	though	we	lack	sensitive	
measures	to	determine	copper	status.
	 Severe	 copper	deficiency	 is	relatively	 rare,	occurring	 most	often	in	preterm	infants.	The	
most	common 	manifestation 	of	copper	deficiency 	is	anemia.	This	is	due	primarily 	to	the	
fact	that	the	copper-	containing	 protein	ceruloplasmin	 is	needed	for	iron	transport.	 In	
copper	deficiency,	 even	if	iron	is	sufficient	 in	the	diet,	iron	cannot	be	transported	 out	of	
the	intestinal 	mucosa.	Copper	deficiency 	causes	skeletal	muscle	abnormality 	similar	to	
those	seen	in	vitamin	C	deficiency.	 This	is	because	the	enzyme	needed	for	the	cross-	lining	
of	connective	 tissue	requires	 copper	in	addition	 to	vitamin	C.	Because	 of	copper’s	 role	in	
the	development	 and	maintenance	 of	the	immune	 system,	a	diet	low	in	copper	can	
decrease	the	immune	response	and	thus	increase	the	incidence	of	infection.
Fluoride
Fluoride	 has	its	greatest	effect	on	dental	caries	prevention	 early	in	life.	This	link	was	found	
as	dentists	in	the	early	1900s	noticed	a	lower	rate	of	dental	caries	in	the	southwestern 	
United	States.	These	areas	contain	high	amounts	 of	fluoride	 in	the	water.	After	experi-
ments	showed	that	fluoride	in	the	water	did	indeed	decrease	 the	rate	of	dental	caries,	con-
trolled	fluoridation	 of	water	in	parts	of	the	United	States	began	in	1945.	It	has	been	
evidenced	 that	those	who	grew	up	drinking	 fluoridated	 water	generally	 have	40	to	60	
percent	fewer	dental	caries	than	people	who	did	not	drink	fluoridated	water	as	children.
	 Tea,	seafood,	 seaweed,	 and	some	natural	water	sources	 are	the	only	good	food	
sources	of	fluoride.	 Most	of	our	fluoride	 intake	comes	from	fluoride	 added	to	drinking	
water	and	toothpaste,	 and	from	fluoride	 treatments	 performed	 by	dentists.	 Fluoride	 is	
not	added	to	bottled	water.	Therefore,	 if	people	such	as	children	 consume	 bottled	water,	
they	won’t	receive	fluoride	 from	such	water	intake.	Cooking	 utensils	also	affect	food	flu-
oride	content.	 Foods	cooked	with	Teflon	utensils	can	pick	up	fluoride	 from	the	Teflon,	
whereas	aluminum	cookware	can	decrease	fluoride	content.
	 The	gastrointestinal	 tract	provides	 very	little	fluoride	 regulation.	 In	fact,	almost	all	
fluoride	 consumed	 is	absorbed	 in	the	small	intestine	 and	then	circulates	 in	the	blood	to	
the	liver	and	then	to	the	bones	and	teeth.	Fluoride	 has	a	high	affinity	for	calcium.	 In	
teeth,	fluoride	 is	incorporated	 into	the	enamel	crystals,	where	it	forms	the	compound	
fluorhydroxyalatite,	 which	is	more	resistant	 to	acid	than	the	hydroxyalatite	 crystal	it	
replaces.	 As	a	result,	fewer	cavities	are	formed.	 Fluoride	 also	appears	to	stimulate	 matu-
ration	of	osteoblasts,	 the	cells	that	build	new	bone,	and	has	therefore	 been	suggested	 to	
strengthen	bones	in	adults	with	osteoporosis.
	 The	adequate 	intake	for	fluoride	for	adults	is	3.1	to	3.8	mg	per	day.	This	range	of	intake	
provides	 the	benefits	of	resistance	 to	dental	caries	without	causing	ill-	effects.	Typical	fluori-
dated	water	contains	about	1	 mg	per	liter,	which	works	out	to	about	0.25	 mg	per	cup.

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		123
	 No	deficiency	 symptoms	 are	known.	However,	 fluoride	 toxicity	is	well	documented.	
Signs	and	symptoms	 include	gastrointestinal	 upset,	excessive	 production	 of	saliva,	water-
ing	eyes,	heart	problems,	 and,	in	severe	cases,	coma.	In	addition,	 very	high	fluoride	
intake	causes	pitting	and	mottling	 of	teeth,	often	referred	 to	as	dental	 fluorosis,	and	a	
weakening	of	the	skeleton	called	skeletal	fluorosis.
Water
Water	(H2O),	the	most	abundant	 molecule	 in	the	human	body,	is	truly	the	essence	of	
life.	The	body	needs	more	water	each	day	than	any	other	nutrient.	 An	average	individual	
can	survive	only	a	few	days	without	water,	whereas	 a	deficiency	 of	other	nutrients	 may	
take	weeks,	months,	 or	even	years	to	develop.	 Water	is	found	both	inside	and	outside	of	
cells,	and	although	 some	water	is	made	in	the	body	during	metabolism,	 it	is	an	essential	
nutrient.	 Acting	as	a	solvent,	it	dissolves	 many	body	compounds	 such	as	sodium	chloride	
(table	salt).	Water	is	the	perfect	medium	 for	body	processes	 because	it	enables	chemical	
reactions	 to	occur.	Water	even	participates	 directly	in	many	of	these	reactions,	 such	as	
hydrolysis.	 Water	also	helps	regulate	 body	temperature.	 Water	balance	within	different	
compartments	 of	the	body	is	vital	for	health	and	is	regulated	 by	the	movement	 of	elec-
trolytes	such	as	sodium	and	potassium.
Fluid balance and electrolytes
Water	forms	the	greatest	component	 of	the	human	body,	making	up	50	to	70	percent	of	
the	body’s	weight	(about	40	liters,	or	10	gallons).	 Water	is	found	in	varying	proportions	
in	all	tissues	of	the	body.	Blood	is	about	90	percent	 water,	muscle	about	75	percent,	
bone	about	25	percent,	 and	adipose	tissue	about	20	percent	water.	About	two-	thirds	of	
body	water	is	found	inside	cells	known	as	intracellular fluid 	(Figure	6.3). 	The	remaining	
one-	third	is	located	outside	cells	as	extracellular fluid .	Extracellular	 fluid	includes	 prim-
arily	blood	plasma,	lymph,	and	the	fluid	between	 cells	called	 interstitial fluid .	The	con-
centration	 of	substances	 dissolved	 in	body	water,	or	solutes,	varies	among	these	body	
compartments.	 For	example,	 the	concentration	 of	protein	is	highest	in	intracellular	
fluid,	lower	in	extracellular	 fluid,	and	even	lower	in	interstitial	 fluid.	Extracellular	 fluid	
has	a	higher	concentration	 of	sodium	and	chloride	 and	a	lower	concentration	 of	potas-
sium,	and	intracellular	fluid	is	higher	in	potassium	and	lower	in	sodium	and	chloride.
	 Although	 water	can	travel	freely	into	and	out	of	cells	across	the	cell	membrane,	 the	
body	controls	 the	amount	of	water	in	the	intracellular	 and	extracellular	 compartments	
mainly	by	monitoring	 ion	concentrations.	 Ions	are	minerals	 that	dissolve	in	water	and	
are	either	positively	 or	negatively	 charged.	 These	charged	 ions	allow	the	transfer	of	elec-
tric	current;	 therefore	 they	are	called	 electrolytes .	While	sodium	(Na+)	and	chloride	
(Cl–)	are	primarily	 found	in	the	extracellular	 fluid,	potassium	 (K+)	and	phosphates	
(PO–4)	are	in	the	intracellular	fluid.
	 The	concentration	 of	these	electrolytes	 must	be	maintained	 within	certain	ranges	for	
cells	to	function	 properly.	 Cell	membranes	 control	the	movement	 of	most	substances	
into	and	out	of	cells.	For	example,	 sodium	and	chloride	 cannot	cross	cell	membranes	
passively	 but	instead	need	help	from	membrane-	 bound	transport	 proteins	 or	“pumps”	
and	the	input	of	energy	(ATP).	Thus,	the	movement	 of	electrolytes	 into	and	out	of	cells	
is	an	active	transport	 process.	 However,	 water	is	unique	in	that	it	passes	freely	across	cell	
membranes,	 making	this	a	passive	transport	 process.	 The	body	can	couple	the	active	
pumping	 of	ions	across	cell	membranes	 with	the	passive	movement	 of	water.	In	doing	
so,	fluid	movement	 and	balance	are	maintained	 in	the	various	compartments	 at	appro-
priate	levels.

124		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
Movement of water across membranes via osmosis
Just	as	the	body	maintains	 the	concentrations	 of	other	substances	 such	as	glucose	within	
specific	ranges,	it	also	tightly	regulates	 the	amounts	 of	water	within	the	various	fluid	
compartments.	 The	movement	 of	water	from	one	compartment	 to	another	 depends	 on	
fluid	pressure	 and	on	the	concentration	 of	solutes	in	each	compartment.	 The	fluid	pres-
sure	of	blood	against	blood-	vessel	walls,	or	blood	pressure,	 causes	water	to	move	from	
the	blood	into	interstitial	 space.	The	difference	 in	the	concentration	 of	solutes	between	
capillaries	 and	interstitial	 space	causes	much	of	this	water	to	re-	enter	the	capillaries.	
When	the	concentration	 of	solutes	in	one	compartment	 is	higher	than	in	another,	 water	
will	move	to	equalize	 the	solute	concentration.	 This	diffusion	 of	water	across	a	mem-
brane	from	an	area	with	a	lower	solute	concentration	 to	an	area	with	a	higher	solute	
concentration	 is	called	 osmosis.	Osmosis	 occurs	when	there	is	a	selectively	 permeable	
membrane,	 such	as	a	cell	membrane,	 which	allows	water	to	pass	freely	but	regulates	 the	
passage	of	other	substances	 (Figure 	6.4). 	For	example,	 when	sugar	is	sprinkled	 on	fresh	
strawberries,	 the	water	inside	the	strawberries	 moves	across	the	skin	of	the	fruit	to	try	to	
equalize	the	sugar	concentration	on	each	side,	causing	the	fruits	to	shrink.
	 Under	 normal	conditions,	 concentrations	 of	electrolytes	 on	both	sides	of	the	cell	
membrane	 are	similar	or	isotonic.	Thus,	water	movement	 into	and	out	of	the	cell	is	in	
equilibrium	 (Figure 	6.5). 	However,	 if	the	intracellular	 concentration	 of	electrolytes	 is	
greater	than	the	extracellular	 concentration	 (thus	intracellular	 is	considered	 hyper-
tonic),	water	will	flow	freely	into	the	cell.	If	too	much	water	flows	in,	the	cell	may	burst.	
The	opposite	 may	also	occur.	When	the	intracellular	 concentration	 of	electrolytes	 is	rel-
atively	lower	than	the	extracellular	 environments	 (thus	intracellular	 is	considered	 hypo-
tonic),	water	will	exit	the	cell,	leading	to	cell	shrinkage.Total fluid (42 liters)Intracellular
(28 liters)Fluid compartments in the body
70 kg male, total body water is 60 percent of body weight
Blood plasma (3 liters)
Interstitial fluid
(11 liters)
Intracellular fluid
(28 liters)Extracellular
(14 liters)
Figure 6.3 		Fluid	compartments	 and	their	relative	proportions	 to	the	total	fluid	volume	
for	an	average	individual

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		125
	 The	body	can	regulate	 the	amount	 of	water	in	each	compartment	 by	adjusting	 the	
concentration	 of	solutes	and	relying	on	osmosis	to	move	water.	One	such	example	 will	
be	the	active	transport	 of	sodium	into	the	cells	that	line	the	colon,	causing	water	to	be	
absorbed	 as	well.	Without	 this	absorption,	 excessive	 amounts	 of	water	would	be	lost	in	
the	feces.	An	example	 of	how	osmosis	 may	have	negative	 health	consequences	 is	the	
regulation	 of	blood	volume	and	blood	pressure.	 Recall	that	high	salt	(sodium	 chloride)	
intake	can	lead	to	increased	 blood	volume	and	blood	pressure	 in	some	people.	This	is	
because	salt-	sensitive	 people	are	unable	to	excrete	excess	sodium,	resulting	 in	high	levels	
of	sodium	in	the	blood.	This	in	turn	causes	water	to	move	into	the	intravascular	 space,	
increasing	blood	volume	and	thus	blood	pressure.2 3 1With equal numbers
of solute particles onboth sides, theconcentrations areequal, and the tendencyof water to move ineither direction is aboutthe same.Now additional soluteis added to side B.Solute cannot flowacross the divider (inthe case of a cell, itsmembrane).Water can flow both waysacross the divider, but has agreater tendency to movefrom side A to side B, wherethere is a greaterconcentration of solute. Thevolume of water becomesgreater on side B, and theconcentrations in side A andB become equal. A B A B A B
Figure 6.4 		Water	flows	in	the	direction	 of	the	more	highly	concentrated	 solutions	 due	to	
osmosis
Source:	Whitney	and	Rolfes	(2005).	Used	with	permission.
&HOOVLQK\SRWRQLFVROXWLRQ &HOOVLQK\SHUWRQLFVROXWLRQ &HOOVLQLVRWRQLFVROXWLRQ
&HOOVLQLVRWRQLFVROXWLR Q
 HOOVLQK\SRWRQLFVROXWLRQ
 &HOOV
LQK\SHUWRQLFVROXWLR Q
 LQK\SHUWRQLF VROX
Figure 6.5 	Effect	of	osmosis	on	cells

126		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
Function of water
Water	plays	an	active	role	in	many	processes,	 including	 hundreds	 of	chemical	 reactions.	
Water	also	helps	keep	the	body	at	a	constant	 temperature,	 even	when	the	environment	
is	very	cold	or	very	hot.	In	addition,	 water	provides	 protection,	 helps	remove	waste	prod-
ucts,	and	serves	as	an	important	solvent	and	lubricant.
Water as a solvent, transport medium, and lubricant
Water	is	an	ideal	solvent	for	some	substances	 because	it	is	polar;	that	is,	the	two	poles	of	
water	molecules	 have	different	 electrical	 charges.	 The	polar	nature	of	water	allows	it	to	
surround	 other	charged	 molecules	 and	disperse	 them.	Table	salt	consists	of	a	positively	
charged	 sodium	ion	bound	to	a	negatively	 charged	 chloride	 ion.	When	placed	in	water,	
the	sodium	and	chloride	 ions	move	apart	or	dissociate	 because	 the	positively	 charged	
sodium	ion	is	attracted	 to	the	negative	 pole	of	the	water	molecule	 and	the	negatively	
charged	 chloride	 ion	is	attracted	 to	the	positive	pole.	Because	 of	this	polar	nature,	water	
is	the	primary	 solvent	in	blood,	saliva,	and	gastrointestinal	 secretions.	 For	example,	
blood	is	a	solution	 consisting	 of	water	and	a	variety	of	dissolved	 solutes,	including	 nutri-
ents	and	metabolic	 waste	products	 such	as	carbon	dioxide	and	urea.	Substances	 dis-
solved	in	blood	can	move	from	inside	the	blood-	vessel	out	into	the	watery	environment	
within	and	around	tissues	and	cells,	delivering	 important	 nutrients	 and	allowing	 for	the	
removal	of	waste	products.
	 Water	 is	also	a	lubricant.	 This	is	especially	 true	in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract,	respira-
tory	tract,	skin,	and	reproductive 	system,	which	produce 	important 	secretions 	such	as	
digestive	 juices,	mucus,	sweat,	and	reproductive	 fluids,	respectively.	 The	ability	of	the	
body	to	incorporate	 water	into	these	secretions	 is	vital	for	health.	For	example,	 water	
is	needed	 for	producing	 functional	 mucus	in	the	lungs.	Mucus	both	protects	
the	lungs	from	environmental	 toxins	and	pathogens,	 and	lubricates	 lung	tissue	so	
that	it	will	remain	moist	and	supple.	Water	also	helps	form	the	lubricants	 found	
in	knees	and	other	joints	of	the	body.	It	is	the	basis	for	saliva,	bile,	and	amniotic	 fluid.	
Amniotic 	fluid	acts	as	a	shock	absorber 	surrounding 	the	growing	fetus	in	the	
mother’s	womb.
Water regulates body temperature
When	energy-	yielding	nutrients	 such	as	amino	acids,	glucose,	 and	fatty	acids	are	metabo-
lized,	energy	is	released.	 Some	of	this	energy	becomes	 heat	and	helps	maintain	 the	
internal	 body	temperature	 at	a	comfortable	 98.6°F.	However,	 excess	heat	generated	 by	
metabolism	 must	be	removed	 from	the	body	so	that	the	body’s	temperature	 does	not	
rise.	Hot	environments	can	also	raise	the	body’s	internal	temperature.
	 The	fact	that	water	changes	 temperature	 slowly	in	response	 to	changes	 in	the	exter-
nal	environment 	helps	the	human	body	resist	temperature 	change	when	the	outside	
temperature	 fluctuates.	 The	term	 specific heat 	refers	to	the	amount	 of	energy	it	takes	
to	increase	 the	temperature	 of	1	gram	of	a	substance	 by	1°C.	Water	has	a	high	specific	
heat,	meaning	 that	changing	 its	temperature	 takes	a	high	amount	 of	energy.	Because	
water	can	handle	so	much	energy	without	heating	up,	our	body	can	maintain	 a	relat-
ively	stable	internal	 temperature	 even	when	metabolic	 rates	are	high	or	the	environ-
ment	is	hot.	The	water	in	blood	actively	regulates	 body	temperature.	 When	body	
temperature	 starts	to	rise,	the	blood-	vessels	in	the	skin	dilate,	causing	 blood	to	flow	
close	to	the	surface	of	the	body	and	release	some	of	the	heat	into	the	environment. 	
This	occurs	with	fevers	as	well	as	when	the	environmental	 temperature	 rises.	The	most	

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		127
obvious	way	that	water	helps	regulate	 body	temperature	 is	through	 the	evaporation	 of	
sweat.	When	the	body	temperature 	increases, 	the	sweat	glands	in	the	skin	increase	
their	secretions.	 As	the	sweat	evaporates	 from	the	skin,	heat	is	lost.	Each	liter	of	per-
spiration	 evaporated	 represents	 approximately	 600	kcal	of	energy	lost	from	the	skin	
and	surrounding	 tissues.	Similarly,	 the	heat	lost	when	we	have	a	fever	increases	 one’s	
need	for	calories.	 The	role	water	plays	in	regulating	 body	temperature	 is	further	dis-
cussed	in	 Chapter	16.
Water helps remove waste products
Water	is	an	important	 vehicle	for	transporting	 substances	 throughout	 the	body	and	for	
removing	 waste	products	 from	the	body.	Most	unusable	 substances	 in	the	body	can	dis-
solve	in	water	and	exit	the	body	through	 urine.	Urea	is	a	major	waste	product.	 This	by-	
product	 of	protein	metabolism	 contains	 nitrogen.	 The	more	protein	we	eat	in	excess	of	
needs,	the	more	nitrogen	 we	remove	from	amino	acids	and	excrete	in	the	form	of	urea	
in	the	urine.	Likewise,	 the	more	sodium	we	consume,	 the	more	sodium	we	excrete	in	
the	urine.	Overall,	the	amount	of	urine	a	person	needs	to	produce	 is	determined	 prim-
arily	by	excess	protein	and	salt	intake.
	 A	typical	volume	of	urine	produced	 per	day	is	about	1	liter	or	more,	depending	
largely	on	the	intake	of	fluid,	protein,	 and	sodium.	 A	somewhat	 greater	urine	output	
than	that	is	fine,	but	less,	especially	 less	than	500	milliliters	 (~2	cups),	forces	the	kidneys	
to	form	concentrated	 urine.	The	easy	way	to	determine	 if	water	intake	is	adequate	 is	to	
observe	the	color	of	one’s	urine.	Whereas	 urine	should	be	clear	or	pale	yellow,	concen-
trated	urine	is	very	dark	yellow.
Estimating water needs
The	recommended	 total	intake	of	water	per	day	is	2.7	liters	(11	cups)	for	adult	women	
and	3.7	liters	(15	cups)	for	adult	men.	This	is	based	primarily	 on	our	typical	total	water	
intakes	from	a	combination	 of	fluids	and	foods.	For	fluid	alone	this	corresponds	 to	
about	2.2	liters	(9	cups)	for	women	and	about	3	liters	(13	cups)	for	men.	Water	needs	
can	also	be	calculated	 based	on	energy	requirement;	 that	is,	the	greater	the	energy	
requirement,	 the	greater	the	water	needs.	Adults	need	about	1	ml	of	water	per	kilocalo-
rie	of	energy	requirement,	or	about	2	to	3	liters	per	day.
	 We	consume	 water	in	various	liquids,	such	as	fruit	juice,	coffee,	tea,	soft	drinks,	and	
water.	Coffee,	tea,	and	soft	drinks	often	contain	caffeine,	 which	increases	 urine	output.	
However,	 the	fluid	consumed	 from	these	beverages	 is	not	completely	 lost	in	urine,	so	
these	fluids	still	help	to	meet	water	needs.	Foods	also	supply	water,	and	many	fruits	and	
vegetables	comprise	more	than	80	percent	water	( Table	6.2).
	 This	amount	is	sufficient	 under	average	conditions,	 but	water	needs	can	be	increased	
by	variations	 in	activity,	environment,	 and	diet.	For	example,	 a	person	exercising	 in	a	
hot	environment	 may	require	an	additional	 1–2	liters	or	more	per	day	to	replace	water	
losses	through	 sweating.	 Water	needs	can	also	be	affected	 by	the	composition	 and	ade-
quacy	of	the	diet.	A	low-	energy	coupled	 with	high-	protein	diet	increases	 water	needs	
because	 water	losses	increase	 due	to	the	need	to	excrete	waste	such	as	ketone	and/or	
ammonia.	 A	high-	sodium	diet	increases	 water	needs	because	 the	excess	salt	must	be	
excreted	 in	the	urine.	A	high-	fiber	diet	also	increases	 water	needs	because	more	fluid	is	
retained	in	the	gastrointestinal	tract.

128		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
Summary
•	 Minerals	 occur	freely	in	nature,	in	the	water	of	rivers,	lakes,	and	oceans,	and	in	the	
soil.	The	root	system	of	plants	absorbs	minerals	 and	they	eventually	 become	incorp-
orated	into	the	tissues	of	animals	that	consume	plants.
•	 Minerals	 come	from	plant	and	animal	sources,	and	their	bioavailability	 is	affected	by	
interactions	 with	other	minerals,	 vitamins,	 and	other	dietary	components,	 such	as	
fibers,	phytates,	oxylates,	and	tannins.
•	 Minerals	 are	divided	into	major	minerals,	 or	those	needed	in	the	diet	in	amounts	
greater	than	100	mg	per	day,	and	trace	minerals,	 or	those	required	 by	the	body	in	
an	amount	of	100	 mg	or	less	per	day.
•	 A	balanced	 diet	generally	 provides	 adequate	 mineral	 intake,	except	in	some	geo-
graphic	locations	lacking	specific	minerals	(e.g.,	iodine	and	selenium).
•	 Minerals	 function	 in	a	variety	of	ways	in	the	body.	For	example,	 calcium	and	phos-
phorous	 are	vitally	important	 for	the	structure	 and	strength	 of	bones	and	teeth;	
iodine	is	a	component	 of	the	thyroid	hormones	 which	regulate	 metabolic	 rate;	and	
chromium	plays	a	role	in	regulating	blood	glucose	levels.
•	 Many 	minerals	participate 	in	chemical 	reactions 	by	serving	as	co-	factors.	They	are	also	
required	 for	energy	metabolism,	 nerve	function,	 and	muscle	contraction.	 In	addition, 	
the	electrolytes	 such	as	sodium	and	chloride,	 and	potassium	 are	essential	 for	maintain -
ing	a	proper	fluid	distribution	across	the	body’s	different	compartments.
•	 Over-	 or	under-	consumption	 of	certain	minerals	 has	been	linked	to	the	develop-
ment	of	certain	chronic	conditions.	 For	example,	 a	diet	low	in	iron	results	in	anemia	
that	reduces	oxygen-	carrying	 capacity;	 a	diet	high	in	sodium	increases	 blood	pres-
sure	and	thus	leads	to	hypertension;	 and	an	inadequate	 consumption	 of	calcium	
contributes	to	osteoporosis.
•	 Water	 forms	the	greatest	 component	 of	the	human	body,	making	 up	50	to	70	
percent	of	the	body’s	weight	(about	10	gallons,	or	40	liters).	It	is	consumed	 in	bever-
ages	and	food,	and	a	small	amount	is	produced	by	metabolism.Table 6.2	Water	content	of	various	foods
Fruits Water (%) Vegetables Water (%) Others Water (%)
Apple 84 Broccoli 91 Beer 90
Apricot 86 Cabbage	(green) 93 Bread 38
Banana 74 Cabbage	(red) 92 Butter 16
Blueberries 85 Carrots 87 Chicken 64
Cantaloupe 90 Cauliflower 92 Crackers 	4
Cherries 81 Celery 95 Honey 20
Cranberries 87 Cucumber 96 Jam 28
Grapes 81 Eggplant 92 Milk 89
Grapefruit 91 Lettuce 96 Shortening  0
Orange 87 Peas 79 Steak 50
Peach 88 Peppers 92
Pear 84 Potato 79
Pineapple 87 Radish 95
Plum 85 Spinach 92
Raspberries 87 Zucchini 95
Strawberries 92 Tomato	(red) 94
Watermelon 92 Tomato	(green) 93
Note
Values	are	expressed	as	percentages	by	weight.

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		129
•	 Body	 water	is	distributed	 between	 intracellular	 and	extracellular	 compartments.	 The	
body	regulates	 the	distribution	 of	water	by	adjusting	 the	concentration	 of	solutes	in	
each	compartment.	 This	is	due	to	osmosis	 whereby	 water	always	moves	from	a	
region	of	lower	solute	concentration	to	a	region	of	higher	solute	concentration.
•	 Water	 plays	an	active	role	in	many	processes,	 including	 hundreds	 of	chemical	 reac-
tions.	Water	also	helps	keep	the	body	at	a	constant	 temperature,	 even	when	the	
environment	 is	very	cold	or	very	hot.	In	addition,	 water	provides	 protection,	 helps	
remove	waste	products,	and	serves	as	an	important	solvent	and	lubricant.
•	 The	 recommended	 total	water	intake	per	day	is	2.7	liters	(11	cups)	for	adult	women	
and	3.7	liters	(15	cups)	for	adult	men.	Water	needs	can	also	be	calculated	 based	on	
energy	requirements;	 that	is,	the	greater	the	energy	requirement,	 the	greater	the	
water	needs.	Adults	need	about	1	ml	of	water	per	kilocalorie	 of	energy	requirement,	
or	about	2	to	3	liters	per	day.	Water	needs	can	be	increased	 by	variations	 in	activity,	
environment,	and	diet.
Case study: nutrition and bone health
Michelle	 is	a	19-year-	old	sophomore	 in	college.	She	is	a	strict	vegetarian.	 She	became a 
near-	vegan	(consumes	 some	fish)	at	the	age	of	12	when	she	stopped	 eating	meat	and	
most	dairy	products	 on	urging	from	her	mother	who	had	been	a	vegan	for	her	entire	
adult	life.	Michelle	 is	now	concerned	 that	her	diet	may	be	deficient	 in	vitamins	 and	
minerals.	 Michelle	 has	also	started	smoking,	 and	her	only	activity	is	practice	 for	the	
frisbee	club,	which	occurs	once	a	week.	Michelle’s	 typical	diet	consists	 of	oatmeal	
mixed	with	water,	an	apple,	and	a	cup	of	fruit	juice	for	breakfast.
	At	lunch,	she	eats	
pasta	with	vegetables,	 bread	with	olives,	and	a	soft	drink.	In	the	afternoon,	 she	buys	a	
snack	cake	or	candy	bar	from	the	vending	 machine.	 For	dinner,	she	has	pasta	or	breads	
along	with	mixed	vegetable	 salad,	milkshake,	 one	ounce	of	mixed	nuts,	and	another	
soft	drink.	For	the	evening	snack,	she	often	eats	cookies	along	with	hot	tea	or	water.
Questions
•	 What	nutrients	are	low	in	Michelle’s	typical	diet?
•	 Which	of	Michelle’s	lifestyle	factors	contribute	to	the	increased	risk	of	osteoporosis?•	 What	changes	to	her	current	diet	could	reduce	the	risk	of	osteoporosis?•	 What	bone	assessment	test	would	you	
recommend	for	Michelle?
Review questions
	1	 Describe	 the	function	 of	water	in	the	body.	What	is	the	recommended	 water	intake	
for	adults?
	2	 What	is	a	mineral?	What	is	the	difference	between	major	and	trace	minerals?
	3	 How	do	sodium	and	potassium	 function	 in	the	body?	What	types	of	foods	contribute	
the	most	sodium	to	our	diet?	What	types	of	foods	are	good	sources	of	potassium?
	4	 What	are	the	major	health	concerns	associated	with	an	overconsumption	of	sodium?
	5	 Calcium	 and	phosphorus	 are	the	first	and	second	abundant	 minerals,	 respectively.	
What	are	the	specific	functions	 associated	 with	each	mineral?	 What	function	 do	these	
minerals	have	in	common?
	6	 What	 role	does	iron	play	in	the	body?	Describe	 the	symptoms	 of	iron	deficiency-	
related	anemia.
	7	 Identify	a	mineral	that	functions	as	an	antioxidant.

130		 Micronutrients: minerals and water
	8	 What	hormone	needs	iodine	for	its	production?
	9	 What	is	the	function	of	zinc	in	the	body?	What	are	the	best	food	sources	for	zinc?
10	 Why	does	selenium	decrease	the	need	for	vitamin	E?
11	 Explain	why	a	deficiency	of	copper	can	contribute	to	anemia.
12	 Define	 the	term	“osmosis.”	 If	plasma	becomes	 hypertonic,	 what	will	happen	to	the	
red	blood	cells?	Why?
13	 Explain	how	water	moves	across	intestinal	walls	via	osmosis.
Suggested reading
	1	 Appel	 LJ,	Brands	MW,	Daniels	SR,	Karanja	N,	Elmer	PJ,	Sacks	FM,	American	 Heart	
Association	 (2006)	Dietary	approaches	 to	prevent	and	treat	hypertension:	 a	scientific	
statement	from	the	American	Heart	Association.	 Hypertension ,	47:	296–308.
 This article represents an official view of the American Heart Association toward the dietary 
approaches to preventing and treating hypertension. It discusses multiple dietary factors affect -
ing blood pressure and provides recommendations as to how one’s diet may be modified to lower 
blood pressure.
	2	 Kohrt	 WM,	Bloomfield	 SA,	Little	KD,	Nelson	ME,	Yingling	 VR,	American	 College	of	
Sports	Medicine	 (2004)	American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	 Position	 Stand:	phys-
ical	activity	and	bone	health.	 Medical Science Sports Exercise ,	36:	1985–1996.
 This official document released by the American College of Sports Medicine summarizes the 
current literature that supports the role physical activity plays in maximizing bone mass in 
various groups of individuals, including children, adults, and the elderly.
	3	 Shirreffs	 SM,	Maughan	 RJ	(2000)	Rehydration	 and	recovery	 of	fluid	balance	 after	
exercise.	 Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews ,	28:	27–32.
 Restoration of fluid balance after exercise- induced dehydration avoids the detrimental effects of 
a body water deficit on subsequent exercise performance and physiological function. This article 
discusses various key issues in restoring fluid balance, including the consumption of a volume 
of fluid greater than that lost in sweat and the replacement of electrolyte losses, particularly 
sodium.
Glossary
Bone remodeling 	degradation	and	resynthesize	of	bone.
Cretinism 	a	condition	 characterized	 by	symptoms	 such	as	mental	retardation,	 deaf	
mutism,	and	growth	failure	due	to	deficiency	in	thyroid	hormone.
Cupric	an	oxidized	form	of	copper	(Cu2+).
Cuprous 	a	reduced	form	of	copper	(Cu+).
Cytochromes 	heme-	containing	 protein	complexes	 that	function	 in	the	electron	 trans-
port	chain.
Electrolyte 	A	substance	 that	dissociates	 into	ions	in	solution	 and	acquires	 the	capacity	
to	conduct	 electricity.	 Sodium,	 potassium,	 chloride,	 calcium,	 and	phosphate	 are	
examples	of	electrolytes.
Extracellular fluid 	body	water	found	outside	cells.
Ferric iron 	an	oxidized	form	of	iron	(i.e.,	Fe3+).
Ferrous iron 	a	reduced	form	of	iron	(i.e.,	Fe2+).
Fluorosis 	a	health	condition	 caused	by	a	person	receiving	 too	much	fluoride	 during	
tooth	development.
Goiter	a	condition	associated	with	an	enlarged	thyroid	gland.
Heme iron 	a	type	of	iron	found	mainly	in	animal	protein	such	as	hemoglobin	 in	blood	
and	myoglobin	in	muscle.

Micronutrients: minerals and water 		131
Hemoglobin 	the	iron-	containing	 protein	found	in	red	blood	cells,	which	function	 to	
transport	oxygen.
Hydroxyapatites 	solid	mineral	 crystals	formed	by	osteoblasts	 taking	up	free	calcium	
and	phosphorous.
Hypertension 	a	blood	pressure	of	140/90	 mmHg	or	greater.
Hypertonic 	a	condition	 of	having	a	higher	osmotic	 pressure	 than	a	particular	 fluid,	
typically	a	body	fluid	or	intracellular	fluid.
Hypokalemia 	a	condition	of	lower-	 than-normal	blood	potassium	concentrations.
Hypotonic 	a	condition	 of	having	a	lower	osmotic	pressure	 than	a	particular	 fluid,	typic-
ally	a	body	fluid	or	intracellular	fluid.
Interstitial fluid 	the	body	water	found	between	cells.
Intracellular fluid 	body	water	found	inside	cells.
Ion	a	charged	atom	or	molecule	because	of	unequal	number	of	electrons	and	protons.
Iron deficiency anemia 	a	common	 type	of	anemia	and	a	condition	 in	which	blood	lacks	
adequate	hemoglobin	and	thus	healthy	red	blood	cells.
Isotonic	a	condition	 in	which	concentrations	 of	electrolytes	 are	similar	between	 both	
sides	of	the	cell	membrane.
Major minerals 	minerals	 needed	in	the	diet	in	amounts	 greater	than	100	mg	per	day	or	
present	in	the	body	in	amounts	greater	than	0.01	percent	of	the	body	weight.
Myoglobin 	the	iron-	containing	 protein	found	in	muscle	cells	that	functions	 to	trans-
port	oxygen.
Non- heme iron 	a	type	of	iron	found	mainly	in	vegetables,	legumes,	and	wholegrains.
Osmosis	the	movement	 of	water	molecules	 across	a	partially	 permeable	 membrane	
from	an	area	of	high	water	potential	 (low	solute	concentration)	 to	an	area	of	low	
water	potential	(high	solute	concentration).
Osteoblasts 	a	type	of	bone	cell	responsible	for	bone	formation.
Osteoclasts 	a	type	of	bone	cell	that	removes	bone	tissue.
Osteopenia 	a	moderate	loss	of	bone	mass	that	can	lead	to	osteoporosis.
Specific heat 	the	amount	of	energy	it	takes	to	increase	 the	temperature	 of	1	gram	of	a	
substance	by	1°C.
Tetany	a	condition	in	which	muscles	tighten	and	become	unable	to	relax.
Trace minerals 	minerals	 required	 by	the	body	in	an	amount	of	100	mg	or	less	per	day	
or	present	in	the	body	in	an	amount	of	0.01	percent	or	less	of	body	weight.

7 Digestion and absorption
Contents
Key terms 133
Chemical basis related to digestion and absorption 133
•	 Hydrolysis	and	condensation	 133
•	 Enzymes:	the	biological	catalysis	 134
The	digestive	system:	an	overview	 136
•	 Organization	of	the	gastrointestinal	tract	 138
•	 Gastrointestinal	motility	and	secretions	 139
•	 Regulation	of	gastrointestinal	motility	and	secretions	 140
Digestion	and	absorption	processes	 141
•	 The	mouth	 141
•	 The	esophagus	 141
•	 The	stomach	 142
•	 The	small	intestine	 143
•	 The	large	intestine	 147
•	 Paths	of	absorbed	nutrients	 148
Factors	affecting	food	intake	and	choice	 150
•	 Hunger	and	appetite	 150
•	 Role	of	hypothalamus	 150
•	 Psychological	stress	 151
Immune	function	of	the	digestive	system	 151
Common	problems	with	digestion	and	absorption	 152
•	 Lactose	intolerance	 153
•	 Ulcers	 153
•	 Heartburn	 154
•	 Constipation	 154
•	 Hemorrhoids	 155
•	 Diarrhea	 155
•	 Irritable	Bowel	Syndrome	 156
•	 Gallstones	 156
Summary	 157
Case	study	 158
Review	questions	 158
Suggested	reading	 159
Glossary	 159

Digestion and absorption   133
Key terms
•	 Allergic	reaction	 •	 Antigen
•	 Appendix	 •	 Appetite
•	 Arteries	 •	 Arterioles
•	 Bolus	 •	 Cecum
•	 Cephalic	phase	 •	 Chemoreceptors
•	 Cholecystokinin	(CCK)	 •	 Chyme
•	 Coenzymes	 •	 Colon
•	 Condensation	 •	 Constipation
•	 Diarrhea	 •	 Duodenum
•	 Energy	of	activation	 •	 Enteric	endocrine	system
•	 Enteric	nervous	system	 •	 Enzymes
•	 Epiglottis	 •	 Gallstones
•	 Gastric	inhibitory	protein	 •	 Gastric	phase
•	 Gastrin	 •	 Gastrointestinal	tract
•	 Heartburn	 •	 Hemorrhoids
•	 Hepatic	portal	circulation	 •	 Hunger
•	 Hydrolysis	 •	 Ileum
•	 Immunoglobulins	 •	 Intestinal	phase
•	 Irritable	bowel	syndrome	 •	 Jejunum
•	 Lacteals	 •	 Lactose	intolerance
•	 Lower	esophageal	sphincter	 •	 Lumen
•	 Mechanoreceptors	 •	 Microvilli
•	 Pepsin	 •	 Peptic	ulcers
•	 Peristalsis	 •	 Probiotic
•	 Pyloric	sphincter	 •	 Rectum
•	 Satiety	 •	 Secretin
•	 Segmentation	 •	 Sphincter
•	 Substrates	 •	 Ulcer
•	 Veins	 •	 Venules
•	 Villi
Chemical basis related to digestion and absorption
Proper	food	intake	provides	 an	uninterrupted	 supply	of	energy	and	tissue-	building	 chem-
icals	to	sustain	life.	For	exercise	 and	sports	participants,	 the	ready	availability	 of	specific	
nutrients	 takes	on	added	importance	 because	physical	activity	increases	 energy	expendi-
ture	and	the	need	for	tissue	repair	and	synthesis. 	Nutrient	uptake	by	the	body	involves	
complex	 physiological	 and	metabolic	 processes	 that	usually	progress	 unnoticed	 for	a	life-
time.	Hormones	 and	enzymes	 work	in	concert	throughout	 the	digestive	 tract,	at	proper	
levels	of	acidity–alkalinity,	 to	facilitate	 the	breakdown	 of	complex	 nutrients	 into	simpler	
and	absorbable 	subunits. 	Substances 	produced 	during	digestion 	are	absorbed 	through	the	
thin	lining	of	the	small	intestine	and	pass	into	blood	and	lymph.	Self-	regulating 	processes	
within	the	digestive	tract	usually	move	food	along	at	a	slow	rate	to	allow	for	its	complete	
absorption,	yet	rapidly	enough	to	ensure	timely	delivery	of	its	nutrient.
Hydrolysis and condensation
Hydrolysis 	reactions	 digest	or	break	down	complex	 molecules	 such	as	carbohydrates,	
lipids,	and	proteins	 into	simpler	forms	that	the	body	absorbs	and	assimilates.	 During	the	

134		 Digestion and absorption
decomposition	 process,	 chemical	 bonds	split	by	the	addition	 of	hydrogen	 ions	(H+)	and	
hydroxyl	 ions	(OH–),	the	constituents	 of	water,	to	the	reaction	 by-	products.	 Examples	 of	
hydrolysis	 reactions	 include	 the	digestion	 of	starches	 and	disaccharides	 to	monosac-
charides,	 protein	to	amino	acids,	and	lipids	to	glycerol	and	fatty	acids.	A	specific	enzyme	
catalyzes	 each	step	in	the	breakdown	 process.	 For	breaking	 down	disaccharides,	 the	
enzymes	 are	lactase,	sucrase,	and	maltase	for	lactose,	sucrose,	 and	maltose,	 respectively.	
The	enzyme	lipase	degrades	 the	triglycerides	molecule	 by	adding	water,	thereby	cleaving	
the	fatty	acids	from	their	glycerol	 backbone.	 During	protein	 degradation,	 protease	
enzymes	 accelerate	 amino	acid	release	when	the	addition	 of	water	splits	the	peptide	
bonds.	All	of	these	examples	 represent	 catabolism,	 which	in	some	cases	may	result	in	a	
release	of	energy.	Figure	7.1a	illustrates	 the	hydrolysis	 reaction	 for	the	disaccharide	
sucrose	to	its	end-	 product	molecules	of	glucose	and	fructose.
	 The	reactions	 illustrated	 for	hydrolysis	 also	occur	in	the	opposite	 direction	 known	as	
condensation .	In	this	reverse	process	(shown	in	Figure 	7.1b), 	a	hydrogen	 atom	is	cleaved	
from	one	molecule	 and	a	hydroxyl	 group	is	removed	 from	another.	 As	a	result,	while	a	
compound	 of	maltose	is	synthesized,	 a	water	molecule	 is	also	formed.	 The	condensation	
reactions	 are	also	referred	 to	as	an	anabolic	 process	during	which	individual	 compon-
ents	of	the	nutrients	 bind	together	 in	condensation	 reactions	 to	form	more	complex	
molecules.	 Condensation	 reactions	 also	apply	to	protein	synthesis.	 In	this	process,	 as	a	
peptide	 bond	is	formed	from	two	amino	acids,	a	water	molecule	 is	created	from	a	
hydroxyl	ion	cleaved	from	one	amino	acid	and	hydrogen	ion	from	the	other	amino	acid.	
For	lipids,	water	molecules	 form	when	a	glycerol	 binds	with	three	fatty	acids	to	form	a	
triglyceride	molecule.
Enzymes: the biological catalysis
The	speed	of	cellular	 chemical	 reactions	 is	regulated	 by	catalysts	 called	 enzymes.	
Enzymes	 are	proteins	 that	play	a	major	role	in	digestion	 as	well	as	in	the	regulation	 of	
metabolic	 pathways	 in	the	cell.	Enzymes	 do	not	cause	a	reaction	 to	occur,	but	simply	
&+2+
++ +2&+
&+2++
2
2+
6XFURVHD+\GURO\VLV
E&RQGHQVDWLRQ+ 2+
++2+2
&+2+
++
2+
2+
*OXFRVH+ 2+
++2+2&+2+
++
2+
2+
*OXFRVH+ 2+
++2+2+
:DWHU
:DWHU+2 +
2+2&+2+
++
2+ +2+2&+
&+2++
2+
)UXFWRVH *OXFRVH
1HZERQGFUHDWHG+ 2+
++2+2
++2 +
2+2
&+2+
++
2
2++ 2+
++2+2&+2+
++
2+
2+
0DOWRVH+ 2+
++2
Figure 7.1		Hydrolysis	 reaction	 of	the	disaccharide	 sucrose	 to	the	end-product	 molecules	
glucose	 and	fructose	 (a)	and	condensation	 reaction	 of	two	glucose	 molecules	
forming	maltose	(b)

Digestion and absorption 		135
regulate	 the	rate	or	speed	at	which	the	reaction	 takes	place.	The	great	diversity	 of	
protein	structures	 enables	enzymes	 to	perform	 highly	specific	functions.	 Enzymes	 only	
affect	reactions	 that	would	normally	 take	place	but	at	a	much	slower	rate.	Enzymes	 do	
not	change	the	nature	of	the	reaction	nor	its	final	result.
	 Chemical	 reactions	 occur	when	the	reactants	 have	sufficient	 energy	to	proceed.	 The	
energy	required	 to	initiate	chemical	 reactions	 is	called	the	energy of activation .	Enzymes	
work	as	catalysts	 by	lowering	 the	energy	of	activation.	 By	reducing	 the	energy	of	activa-
tion,	enzymes	 increase	 the	speed	of	chemical	 reactions	 and	therefore	 increase	 the	rate	
of	product	formation.
	 Enzymes	 possess	the	unique	property	 of	not	being	altered	by	the	reactions	 they	affect.	
Consequently,	 the	turnover	 of	enzymes	 in	the	body	remains	 relatively	 slow	and	they	are	
continually	 reused.	A	typical	mitochondrion	 may	contain	up	to	10	billion	enzyme	mol-
ecules,	each	carrying	 out	millions	 of	operations	 within	a	brief	time.	During	exercise,	
enzyme	 activity	increases	 enormously	 within	the	cell	owing	to	an	increase	 in	energy	
demand.	 Enzymes	 make	contact	at	precise	locations	 on	the	surfaces	 of	cell	structures	
(e.g.,	mitochondria);	 they	also	operate	within	the	structure	 itself.	Many	enzymes	 func-
tion	outside	the	cell	–	in	the	bloodstream,	 digestive	 mixture,	 or	fluids	of	the	small	
intestine.
	 Although	 there	is	a	standardized	 naming	 system	for	enzymes,	 most	textbooks	 use	
common	 names	that	generally	 reflect	the	mode	of	operation	 or	substance	 with	which	it	
interacts.	 Except	for	older	enzymes	 such	as	rennin,	 trypsin,	and	pepsin,	almost	all	
enzyme	 names	end	with	the	suffix	“ase.”	For	example,	 hydrolase	 adds	water	during	
hydrolysis	 reactions,	 protease	 interacts	 with	protein,	 oxidase	adds	oxygen	to	a	substance.	
In	addition,	 kinases	are	a	group	of	enzymes	 that	add	phosphate	 groups	to	the	reactants	
or	substances	 with	which	they	react.	Further,	 dehydrogenases	 are	enzymes	 that	remove	
hydrogens	 from	substances	 they	catalyze.	 In	the	realm	of	human	biology,	 those	sub-
stances	that	are	acted	upon	by	enzymes	are	referred	to	as	 substrates.
	 The	ability	of	enzymes	 to	lower	the	energy	of	activation	 results	from	unique	structural	
characteristics.	 In	general,	 enzymes	 are	large	protein	molecules	 with	a	three-	dimensional	
shape.	Each	type	of	enzyme	has	characteristic	 ridges	and	grooves.	 The	pockets	formed	
from	the	ridges	or	grooves	located	on	the	enzyme	are	called	active	sites.	These	active	
sites	are	important	 because	it	is	the	unique	shape	of	the	active	site	that	causes	a	specific	
enzyme	to	adhere	to	a	particular	 reactant	 molecule	 or	substrate.	 The	concept	 of	how	
enzymes	 fit	with	a	particular	 substrate	 molecule	 is	analogous	 to	the	idea	of	a	lock	and	
key	(Figure 	7.2). 	The	shape	of	the	enzyme’s	 activity	site	is	specific	to	the	shape	of	a	par-
ticular	substrate,	 which	allows	the	two	molecules,	 enzyme	 and	substrate,	 to	form	a	
complex	 known	as	the	enzyme–substrate	 complex.	 Following	 the	formation	 of	the	
enzyme–substrate	 complex,	 the	energy	of	activation	 needed	for	the	reaction	 to	occur	is	
lowered,	 and	the	reaction	 is	more	easily	brought	 to	completion.	 This	is	followed	 by	disso-
ciation	of	the	enzyme	and	product.
	 The	“lock-	and-key”	 mechanism	 offers	a	protective	 function	 so	that	only	the	correct	
enzyme	activates	 the	targeted	 substrate.	 Consider	 the	enzyme	hexokinase,	 which	acceler-
ates	a	chemical	 reaction	 by	linking	with	a	glucose	molecule.	 As	a	result	of	the	action	of	
this	enzyme,	 a	phosphate	 group	transfers	 from	adenosine	 triphosphate	 (ATP)	to	a	spe-
cific	binding	site	on	one	of	the	glucose’s	 carbon	atoms.	Once	the	two	binding	sites	join	
to	form	a	glucose–hexokinase	 complex,	 the	substrate	 begins	its	stepwise	 degradation	
(controlled	 by	other	specific	enzymes)	 to	form	less	complex	 molecules	 during	energy	
metabolism.
	 The	temperature	 and	hydrogen	 ion	concentrations	 of	the	reactive	medium	 dramatic -
ally	affect	enzyme	activity.	Each	enzyme	performs	 its	maximum	 activity	at	a	specific	pH.	
The	optimum	 pH	of	an	enzyme	usually	reflects	the	pH	of	the	body	fluids	in	which	it	

136		 Digestion and absorption
bathes.	For	some	enzymes,	 optimal	 activity	requires	 a	relatively	 high	acidity	level.	For	
example,	 the	protein-	splitting	 enzyme	pepsin	released	 by	the	stomach	 is	most	active	in	
hydrochloric	 acid,	whereas	 trypsin	released	 by	the	pancreas	 functions	 more	effectively	
on	the	alkaline	side	of	neutrality.	 Increases	 in	temperature	 generally	 accelerate	 enzyme	
reactivity.	 As	the	temperature	 rises	above	40	to	50°C,	enzymes	 may	become	 denatured	
and	therefore	lose	their	function	permanently.
	 Some	 enzymes	 require	activation	 by	additional	 ions	and/or	smaller	organic	 mol-
ecules	termed	 coenzymes .	These	complex 	non-	protein	substances 	facilitate 	enzyme	
action	by	binding	 the	substrate	 with	its	specific	enzyme.	 The	metallic	 ions	iron	and	
zinc	function 	as	coenzymes, 	as	do	the	B	vitamins	or	their	derivatives. 	Oxidation-	
reduction 	reactions 	use	the	B	vitamins	riboflavin 	and	niacin,	while	other	vitamins	serve	
as	transfer	agents	for	groups	of	compounds 	in	metabolic 	processes. 	A	coenzyme	
requires	 less	specificity	 in	its	action	than	an	enzyme	 because	 the	coenzyme	 affects	a	
number	 of	different	 reactions.	 It	can	serve	as	a	temporary	 carrier	of	intermediary 	
products	 in	the	reaction.	 For	example,	 the	coenzyme	 nicotinamide	 adenine	 dinucleo-
tide	(NAD)	forms	NADH	to	transport 	hydrogen 	atoms	and	electrons 	that	split	from	
food	fragments	 during	energy	metabolism.	 The	electrons	 then	pass	to	special	trans-
porter	molecules 	in	another	series	of	chemical 	reactions 	that	ultimately 	deliver	the	
electrons	to	molecule	oxygen.
The digestive system: an overview
The	foods	and	beverages	 we	consume,	 for	the	most	part,	must	undergo	 extensive	 altera-
tion	by	the	digestive	 system	to	provide	us	with	usable	nutrients.	 The	digestive	 system	pro-
vides	two	major	functions:	 (1)	digestion,	 the	physical	 and	chemical	 breakdown	 of	food,	
and	(2)	absorption,	 the	transfer	of	nutrients	 from	the	digestive	 tract	into	the	blood	or	
lymphatic	 circulatory	 systems.	 Carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins	 are	digested	 and	
absorbed	 as	sugars,	fatty	acids,	and	amino	acids,	respectively.	 Some	substances,	 such	as	
water,	can	be	absorbed	 without	digestion,	 whereas	 others,	such	as	dietary	fibers,	cannot	
be	digested	 by	humans	and	therefore	 cannot	be	absorbed.	 These	unabsorbed	 substances	
pass	through	the	digestive	tract	and	are	excreted	in	the	feces.
	 The	digestive	 system	is	made	up	of	the	digestive	 tract	and	accessory	 organs	(Shier	 et 
al.	2010).	The	digestive	 tract,	more	commonly	 known	as	the	gastrointestinal tract or 
alimentary	 tract,	may	be	thought	 of	as	a	hollow	tube	that	runs	from	the	mouth	to	the	
anus	(Figure 	7.3). 	Organs	that	make	up	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	include	the	mouth,	
pharynx,	 esophagus,	 stomach,	 small	intestine,	 and	large	intestine.	 The	inside	of	
the	tube	that	these	organs	form	is	called	the	lumen.	Food	within	the	lumen	of	the	(Q]\PH (Q]\PHVXEVWUDWH3URGXFWV
(Q]\PH6XEVWUDWH
$FWLYH
VLWH
Figure 7.2 	Sequences	and	steps	in	the	“lock	and	key”	mechanism	of	enzyme	action

Digestion and absorption 		137
gastrointestinal	 tract	has	not	been	absorbed	 and	is	therefore	 technically	 still	outside	of	
the	body.	Only	after	food	is	transferred	 into	the	cells	of	the	intestine	 by	the	process	of	
absorption	 is	it	actually	inside	the	body.	The	accessory	 organs	participate	 in	digestion 	
but	are	not	part	of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract,	and	include	the	salivary	glands,	pancreas, 	
liver,	and	gall-	bladder	( Figure	7 .3).	The	accessory 	organs	release	their	secretions	
needed	for	the	process	of	digestion 	into	ducts,	which	empty	into	the	lumen	of	the	
gastro	intestinal	tract.
Parotid
salivary gland Mouth
Tongue
Tooth
Sublingual
salivary gland
Esophagus
Stomach
Pancreas
Rectum
Anal canalSmall
intestineLarge
intestineDuodenum
(of small intestine)GallbladderLiverPharynx
Submandibular
salivary gland
ge
ti
ode
small intestin e)
lbla
enum
all intestin e)
adder
)
all
stine
s
all
stine
ectum
canal
Re
Sto
Pa
Figure 7.3 		Gastrointestinal	tract	and	accessory	organs	of	the	digestive	system
Source:	Shier	 et al.	(2010).	Used	with	permission.

138		 Digestion and absorption
	 The	amount	 of	time	between	 the	consumption	 of	food	and	its	elimination	 as	solid	
waste	is	called	transit	time.	It	takes	approximately	 24	to	72	hours	for	food	to	pass	from	
mouth	to	anus.	Many	factors	affect	transit	time,	such	as	composition	 of	diet,	illness,	
certain	medications,	 physical	 activity,	and	emotions.	 Bands	of	smooth	muscle	called	
sphincters	 act	like	one-	way	valves,	regulating	 the	flow	of	the	luminal	contents	 from	one	
organ	to	the	next.	The	gastrointestinal	 tract	has	several	sphincters,	 which	are	often	
named	according	 to	their	anatomical	 locations.	 For	example,	 the	ileocecal	 sphincter	 is	
between	 the	ileum,	the	last	segment	 of	the	small	intestine,	 and	the	cecum,	the	first	
portion	of	the	large	intestine.
Organization of the gastrointestinal tract
The	digestive	 tract	contains	 our	major	tissue	layers:	the	mucosa,	 submucosa,	 muscular	
layer,	and	serosa.	Each	tissue	layer	contributes	 to	the	overall	function	 of	the	gastroin-
testinal	tract	by	providing	secretions,	movement,	communication,	and	protection.
Mucosa
The	innermost	 lining	of	the	digestive	 tract,	called	the	mucosa,	 consists	mainly	of	epithe-
lial	cells	and	carries	out	a	variety	of	digestive	 functions.	 The	mucosa,	 often	called	the	
mucosal	 lining,	produces	 secretions	 needed	for	digestion	 such	as	enzymes,	 hormones,	
and	mucus.	The	digestive	 system	produces	 and	releases	a	variety	of	substances	 and	secre-
tions	referred	 to	collectively	 as	digestive	 juices,	some	of	which	are	relatively	 acidic.	
Because	 mucosal	 cells	are	continuously	 exposed	 to	harsh	digestive	 secretions	 within	the	
gastrointestinal	 tract,	their	life	span	is	a	mere	two	to	five	days.	Once	the	mucosal	 epithe-
lial	cells	wear	out,	they	slough	off	and	are	replaced	by	new	cells.
Submucosa
A	layer	of	connective	 tissue	called	the	submucosa	 surrounds	 the	mucosal	 layer.	The	
mucosal	 layer	contains	 a	rich	supply	of	blood-	vessels,	which	nourish	the	inner	mucosal	
layer	and	the	next	outer	muscular	 layer.	In	addition	 to	blood-	vessels,	the	submucosa	 con-
tains	lymphatic	 vessels,	which	are	filled	with	fluid	called	lymph.	Lymph	transports	 fluid	
away	from	the	body	tissues	and	aids	in	the	circulation	 of	fat.	The	submucosa	 also	con-
tains	a	network	 of	nerves	called	the	submucosal	 plexus,	which	regulates	 the	release	of	
gastrointestinal	secretions	from	cells	making	up	the	mucosal	lining.
Muscular layer
Moving	outward	 from	the	submucosa,	 the	next	layer	in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	is	the	
two	layers	of	smooth	muscle	organized	 as	an	outer	longitudinal	 and	an	inner	circular	
layer.	Located	 between	 these	two	muscle	layers	is	the	myenteric	 plexus,	a	network	 of	
nerves	that	control	the	contraction	 and	relaxation	 of	the	muscle.	Such	contraction	 and	
relaxation	 promotes	 mixing	of	the	food	mass	with	digestive	 secretions	 and	keeps	food	
moving	through	the	entire	length	of	the	gastrointestinal	tract.
Serosa
The	serosa	is	the	outermost	 layer	that	encloses	 the	gastrointestinal	 tract	and	consists	of	
connective	 tissue	and	provides	 overall	support	and	protection.	 In	particular,	 the	serosa	

Digestion and absorption 		139
secretes	 a	fluid	that	lubricates	 the	digestive	 organs,	preventing	 them	from	adhering	 to	
one	another.	 In	addition,	 much	of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	is	anchored	 within	the	
abdominal	cavity	by	mesentery,	a	membrane	that	is	continuous	with	the	serosa.
Gastrointestinal motility and secretions
The	term	motility	refers	to	the	mixing	and	propulsion	 of	material	 by	muscular	 contrac-
tions	in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	These	movements	 result	from	the	contraction	 and	
relaxation	 of	circular	and	longitudinal	 muscle	in	the	muscular	 layer.	There	are	two	types	
of	movement	 in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract:	 segmentation and peristalsis .	Segmentation	
occurs	when	circular	muscles	in	the	small	intestine	 move	the	food	mass	back	and	forth,	
thereby	increasing	 the	contact	between	 food	particles	 and	digestive	 secretions.	 Peristalsis	
involves	 rhythmic,	 wave-	like	muscle	contractions	 that	propel	food	along	the	entire	
length	of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	The	contraction	 of	circular	muscles	behind	the	food	
mass	causes	the	longitudinal	 muscle	to	shorten.	 When	the	longitudinal	 muscles	
lengthen,	 the	food	is	propelled	 forward.	 Peristalsis	 is	similar	to	the	motion	as	exhibited	
when	an	earthworm	moves.
	 Gastrointestinal	 secretions	 are	important	 for	digestions	 and	protections	 of	the	gastroin-
testinal	tract,	and	include	water,	acid,	electrolytes,	 mucus,	salts,	enzymes,	 bicarbonate,	 and	
other	substances	 (Table 	7.1). 	For	example,	 mucus	forms	a	protective	 coating	that	lubri-
cates	the	mucosal	 lining.	Digestive	 enzymes	 are	biological	 catalysts	that	facilitate	 chemical 	
reactions	 which	break	down	complex	 food	particles.	 More	specifically,	 digestive	 enzymes	
catalyze	hydrolysis	 reactions	 as	mentioned	 above,	which	break	down	chemical	 bonds	by	
adding	water.	As	a	result,	molecules 	such	as	starch	and	protein	are	broken	down	into	
smaller	components	 so	that	they	may	be	absorbed	 across	the	mucosal	 lining.	Organs	that	
release	digestive	 secretions	 include	the	salivary	glands,	stomach,	 pancreas,	 gall-	bladder,	
small	intestine,	 and	large	intestine.	 In	fact,	approximately	 7	liters	of	secretions,	 most	of	
which	is	water,	are	released	 daily	into	the	lumen	of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	Fortunately, 	
the	body	has	a	“recycling”	system	that	enables	much	of	this	water	to	be	reclaimed.
Table 7.1	Important	gastrointestinal	secretions	and	their	functions
Secretion Source Function
Saliva Mouth Partially	digesting	starch	with	salivary	amylase,	
lubricating	food	for	swallowing
Mucus Mouth,	stomach,	
small	intestine,	
large intestine Protecting	GI	tract,	lubricating	food	as	it	travels	
through	the	GI	tract
Enzyme Mouth,	stomach,	
small	intestine,	
pancreasBreaking	down	complex	foods	into	smaller	particles	
for	absorption	
Acid	 Stomach Promoting	digestion	of	protein	among	other	functions
Bile Liver	(stored	in	
gall-bladder)Assisting	fat	digestion	in	the	small	intestine	by	
suspending	fat	in	water
Bicarbonate Pancreas,	small	
intestineNeutralizing	stomach	acid	when	food	mix	reaches	the	
small intestine
Hormones Stomach,	small	
intestine,	pancreasStimulating	production	of	acid,	enzyme,	bile,	and	
bicarbonate,	regulating	peristalsis	and	food	movement,	
and	influencing	the	desire	to	eat

140		 Digestion and absorption
Regulation of gastrointestinal motility and secretions
Gastrointestinal	 motility	and	secretions	 are	carefully	 regulated	 by	neural	and	hormonal	
signals.	These	involuntary	 regulatory	 activities	 ensure	that	complex	 food	particles	 are	
physically	 and	chemically	 broken	down	and	food	mass	moves	along	the	gastrointestinal	
tract	at	the	appropriate	 rate.	The	gastrointestinal	 tract	has	three	regulatory	 control	
systems.	 The	intestinal	 and	the	central	nervous	 system	provide	neural	control,	 and	the	
intestinal	endocrine	system	provides	hormonal	control.
Intestinal nervous system
The	gastrointestinal	 tract	has	its	own	local	nervous	 system	called	the	enteric nervous 
system.	The	enteric	nervous	 system	receives	 information	 from	other	nerves	called	
sensory	receptors	 located	within	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	There	are	two	kinds	of	sensory	
receptors,	 chemoreceptors  and mechanoreceptors ,	each	monitoring	 conditions	 and	
changes	 related	to	digestive	 activities.	 Chemoreceptors	 detect	changes	 in	the	chemical	
composition	 of	the	luminal	 contents,	 whereas	 mechanoreceptors	 detect	stretching	 or	
distension	 in	the	walls	of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	The	presence	 of	food	in	the	tract	can	
stimulate	 both	chemo-	and	mechanoreceptors.	 Information	 from	both	kinds	of	sensory	
receptors	 is	relayed	to	the	enteric	nervous	 system,	which	responds	 by	communicating	
with	a	variety	of	muscles	and	glands.	In	return,	muscles	and	glands	carry	out	the	appro-
priate	response	 to	help	with	digestion,	 such	as	an	increase	 in	peristalsis	 and/or	release	
of	digestive	secretions.
Central nervous system
The	intestinal	 nervous	system	controls	 digestive	 functions	 at	the	local	level.	However,	 the	
gastrointestinal	 tract	also	communicates	 with	the	central	nervous	 system.	The	central	
nervous	 system	consists	 of	the	brain	and	spinal	cord,	which	receive	and	respond	 to	
sensory	input	from	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	The	function	 of	both	the	enteric	and	
central	nervous	 systems	keeps	the	digestive	 system	and	the	brain	in	close	communica -
tion.	This	is	why	sensory	and	emotional	 stimuli	can	affect	one’s	digestive	 function.	 For	
example,	 the	sight,	smell,	or	thought	 of	food	stimulates	 gastrointestinal	 motility	 and	
secretion.	 Similarly,	 emotional	 factors	such	as	fear,	sadness,	 anger,	anxiety,	and	depres-
sion	can	cause	gastrointestinal	distress.
Intestinal endocrine system
The	gastrointestinal	 tract	consists	of	many	different	 types	of	cell,	some	of	which	are	
hormone-	 producing	 cells	referred	 to	collectively	 as	the	enteric endocrine system .	Hor-
mones	produced	 by	these	cells	are	important	 in	providing	 communication	 in	the	body.	
Enteric	hormones,	 which	act	as	chemical	 messengers,	 are	released	 into	the	blood	in	
response 	to	chemical 	and	physical	changes	in	the	gastrointestinal 	tract.	This	information 	is	
then	communicated	 to	other	organs,	alerting	 them	to	the	impending	 arrival	of	food.	
Similar	to	neural	signals,	hormones	 also	influence	 the	rate	at	which	food	moves	through	
the	gastrointestinal	 tract	and	the	release	of	gastrointestinal	 secretions.	 In	addition	 to	regu-
lating	gastrointestinal	 motility	and	secretion,	 some	enteric	hormones	 communicate	 with	
appetite	 centers	in	the	brain,	and	thus	influence	 the	desire	to	eat.	The	four	major	enteric	
hormones	 are	gastrin,	secretin,	 cholecystokinin,	 and	gastric	inhibitory	 protein.	These	hor-
mones	are	released	 from	different	 digestive	 organs.	As	such,	the	specific	role	of	each	of	
these	hormones	will	be	discussed	later	in	the	chapter	as	each	organ	is	introduced.

Digestion and absorption 		141
Digestion and absorption processes
The	digestive	 system	is	composed	 of	six	separate	 organs;	each	organ	performs	 one	or	
more	specific	jobs,	but	all	of	them	work	in	a	“coordinated”	 fashion.	 Because	 most	foods	
we	consume	 are	mixtures	 of	carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins,	 the	physiology	 of	the	
digestive	 system	is	designed	 to	allow	the	digestion	 of	all	those	components	 without	com-
petition	among	them.	The	following	sections	of	this	chapter	will	trace	a	meal	through	all	
of	these	digestive	 organs,	from	food	entering	 the	mouth	to	its	elimination	 as	waste	prod-
ucts	from	the	large	intestine.
The mouth
The	mouth	is	the	entry	point	for	food	into	the	digestive	 tract.	It	performs	 many	func-
tions	in	the	digestion	 of	foods.	Besides	chewing	 food	to	reduce	it	to	smaller	particles,	 the	
mouth	also	senses	the	taste	of	foods	we	consume.	 The	tongue,	through	 the	use	of	its	
taste-	buds,	identifies	 foods	on	the	basis	of	their	specific	flavors.	Sweet,	sour,	salty,	and	
bitter	constitute	 our	primary	 taste	sensations.	 In	addition	 to	these	basic	tastes,	a	com-
pound	found	in	the	seasoning	 monosodium	 glutamate	 (MSG)	delivers	 an	additional	
taste	sensation.	 The	presence	 of	food	in	the	mouth	stimulates	 the	release	of	saliva	from	
the	salivary	glands	located	internally	 at	the	sides	of	the	face	and	immediately	 below	and	
in	front	of	the	ears.	Saliva	contains	 the	enzyme	salivary	amylase,	 which	begins	the	diges-
tion	of	carbohydrate.	 Salivary	amylase	 can	break	down	the	long	chains	of	starch	into	
smaller	segments	 of	sugars.	Saliva	also	lubricates	 the	upper	gastrointestinal	 tract	and	
moistens	the	food	so	that	it	can	be	further	tasted	and	easily	swallowed.
	 Another	 important	 function	 performed	 by	the	mouth	is	chewing,	 which	is	often	
referred	 to	as	part	of	physical	digestion.	 Digestive	 enzymes	 can	act	only	on	the	surface	of	
food.	Therefore,	 chewing	 is	important	 because	 it	breaks	food	into	small	pieces,	increas-
ing	the	surface	area	in	contact	with	digestive	 enzymes.	 Chewing	 also	breaks	apart	fiber	
that	traps	nutrients	 in	some	foods.	Remember	 from	Chapter 	5 	that	more	vitamins	 are	
found	in	the	peel	or	outer	region	of	fruits	and	vegetables	 that	are	rich	in	fiber.	In	this	
context,	 fewer	nutrients	 will	be	absorbed	 without	effective	 chewing.	 Adult	humans	 have	
32	teeth	designed	 for	biting,	tearing,	 grinding,	 and	crushing	 foods.	Thus,	missing	or	
decayed	 teeth	can	interfere	 with	the	proper	digestion	 of	food.	Tooth	decay	or	cavities	is	
caused	by	acid	produced	when	bacteria	break	down	carbohydrates.
	 The	tongue,	 made	primarily	 of	muscle,	assists	in	chewing	 and	swallowing.	 As	food	
mixes	with	saliva,	the	tongue	manipulates	 the	food	mass,	pushing	 it	up	against	the	hard,	
bony	palate	of	the	mouth.	As	we	prepare	 to	swallow,	 the	tongue	directs	the	soft,	moist	
mass	of	food,	now	referred	 to	as	a	bolus,	toward	the	back	of	the	mouth,	an	area	known	
as	the	pharynx.	 The	pharynx	 is	the	shared	space	between	 the	mouth	and	the	esophagus	
which	connects	 the	nasal	and	oral	cavities.	This	phase	of	swallowing	 is	under	voluntary	
control,	 but	once	the	bolus	reaches	the	pharynx	 the	involuntary	 phase	of	swallowing	
begins.
The esophagus
During	the	involuntary	 phase	of	swallowing,	 the	soft	palate	rises,	blocking	 the	entrance	
to	the	nasal	cavity.	This	helps	guide	the	bolus	into	the	esophagus.	 The	esophagus	 is	a	
long	tube	that	connects	 the	pharynx	 with	the	stomach.	 Near	the	pharynx	 is	a	flap	of	
tissue	called	the	epiglottis 	which	prevents	 the	bolus	of	swallowed	 food	from	entering	 the	
trachea.	 During	swallowing,	 food	lands	on	the	epiglottis,	 which	folds	it	down	to	cover	
the	opening	 of	the	trachea.	 Breathing	 also	stops	automatically.	 These	responses	 ensure	

142		 Digestion and absorption
that	swallowed	 food	will	only	travel	down	the	esophagus.	 If	food	travels	down	the	trachea	
instead,	 choking	 may	occur.	The	esophagus	 is	a	narrow,	 muscular	 tube	that	passes	
through	 the	diaphragm,	 a	muscular	 wall	separating	 the	abdomen	 from	the	cavity	where	
the	lungs	are	located.	At	the	top	of	the	esophagus,	 nerve	fibers	release	signals	to	tell	the	
gastrointestinal	 tract	that	food	has	been	consumed.	 This	then	results	in	an	increase	 in	
gastrointestinal	 muscle	action	known	as	peristalsis.	 Continual	 waves	of	muscle	contrac-
tion	followed	 by	muscle	relaxation	 force	the	food	down	the	digestive	 tract	from	the	
esophagus.
	 To	move	food	from	the	esophagus	 into	the	stomach,	 food	must	pass	through	 a	
sphincter ,	a	muscle	that	encircles	 the	tube	of	the	digestive	 tract	and	acts	as	a	valve.	When	
muscle	contracts,	 the	valve	is	closed.	The	 lower esophageal sphincter ,	located	between	
the	esophagus	 and	the	stomach,	 normally	 prevents	 food	from	moving	back	out	of	the	
stomach.	 Heartburn	 occurs	when	some	of	the	acidic	stomach	 content	leaks	out	of	the	
stomach	 into	the	esophagus,	 causing	a	burning	 sensation.	 Vomiting	 is	the	result	of	a	
reverse	peristaltic	 wave	that	causes	the	sphincter	 to	relax	and	allows	food	to	pass	upward	
out	of	the	stomach	toward	the	mouth.
The stomach
The	stomach	 is	an	expended	 portion	of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	that	can	hold	up	to	4	
cups	or	1	liter	of	food	for	several	hours	until	all	the	food	is	able	to	enter	the	small	intes-
tine.	Stomach	 size	varies	individually	 and	may	be	reduced	 surgically	 as	a	medical	 treat-
ment.	While	in	the	stomach,	 the	bolus	is	mixed	with	highly	acidic	stomach	 secretions	 to	
form	a	semi-	liquid	food	mass	called	 chyme.	The	mixing	of	food	in	the	stomach	 is	aided	
by	an	extra	layer	of	smooth	muscle	in	the	stomach	 wall.	As	mentioned	 earlier,	most	of	
the	gastrointestinal	 tract	is	surrounded	 by	two	layers	of	muscle;	however,	 the	stomach	
contains	 a	third	layer,	enabling	 more	powerful	 contractions	 that	thoroughly	 churn	and	
mix	the	stomach	 contents.	 Acidic	secretions	 in	the	stomach	 help	convert	inactive	diges-
tive	enzymes	 into	their	active	form,	partially	 digest	food	protein,	 and	make	dietary	min-
erals	soluble	so	that	they	may	be	absorbed.	 Following	 a	meal,	the	stomach	 contents	 are	
emptied	 into	the	small	intestine	 over	the	course	of	one	to	four	hours.	The	 pyloric 
sphincter ,	located	at	the	base	of	the	stomach,	 controls	 the	rate	at	which	the	chyme	is	
released	 into	the	small	intestine.	 Some	digestion	 takes	place	in	the	stomach,	 but,	with	
the	exception	of	some	water	and	alcohol,	very	little	absorption	takes	place	here.
	 The	stomach	has	a	capacity	to	accommodate 	large	amounts	of	food.	When	empty,	the	
stomach	volume	is	quite	small	–	approximately 	one	quarter	of	a	cup.	As	food	enters	the	
stomach,	 its	walls	expand	to	increase	its	capacity	to	4	to	8	cups	or	1	to	2	liters.	The	ability	to	
expand	to	this	extent	is	due	to	the	interior	lining	of	the	stomach,	 which	is	folded	into	convo-
luted	pleats	call	rugae.	Like	an	accordion, 	the	rugae	unfold	and	flatten,	allowing	the	
stomach	to	expand	as	it	fills	with	food.	The	stretching	 of	the	stomach	walls	triggers	mechano-
receptors 	to	signal	to	the	brain	that	the	stomach	is	becoming 	full.	In	turn,	the	brain	causes	
hunger	to	diminish,	 prompting	 a	person	to	stop	eating.	The	ability	to	recognize	 and	respond	
to	these	internal	cues	is	an	important	component	of	body	weight	regulation.
	 Stomach	 or	gastric	secretions	 are	regulated	 by	both	nervous	 and	hormonal	 mecha-
nisms,	as	discussed	 earlier	in	this	chapter.	 Signals	from	three	different	 sites	–	the	brain,	
stomach,	 and	small	intestine	 –	stimulate	 or	inhibit	gastric	secretion.	 Gastric	secretion	
may	be	divided	into	three	phases:	cephalic,	 gastric,	and	intestinal.	 The	 cephalic phase  
occurs	before	food	enters	the	stomach.	 During	this	phase,	the	smell,	sight,	or	taste	of	
food	causes	the	brain	to	send	nerve	signals	that	increase	 gastric	secretion.	 This	prepares	
the	stomach	 to	receive	and	digest	food	that	enters.	The	 gastric phase 	begins	when	food	
enters	the	stomach.	 The	presence	 of	food	in	the	stomach	 causes	gastric	secretion	 by	

Digestion and absorption 		143
stretching	 local	nerves,	by	signaling	 to	the	brain,	and	by	stimulating	 the	secretion	 of	the	
hormone gastrin	from	the	upper	portion	of	the	stomach.	 Gastrin	triggers	the	release	of	
gastric	juice,	which	is	produced	 by	gastric	glands	in	the	lining	of	the	stomach.	 One	of	the	
components	 of	gastric	juice	is	hydrochloric	 acid.	This	strong	acid	stops	the	activity	of	
salivary	amylase	and	helps	begin	the	digestion	 of	protein.	 It	also	serves	to	kill	most	bac-
teria	present	in	food.	Another	 component	 of	gastric	juice	is	pepsinogen.	 When	pepsino-
gen	is	exposed	 to	the	acidity	of	the	stomach,	 it	is	converted	 into	its	active	form	called	
pepsin,	which	breaks	down	protein	into	shorter	chains	of	amino	acids	called	polypep-
tides.	The	protein	of	the	stomach	 wall	is	protected	 from	the	acid	and	pepsin	by	a	thick	
layer	of	mucus.	If	the	mucus	layer	is	penetrated	 or	destroyed,	 acid	and	pepsin	can	
damage	the	inner	lining	of	the	stomach,	 resulting	 in	a	condition	 called	 peptic ulcers .	A	
peptic	ulcer	is	erosion	in	the	lining	of	the	stomach	 or	the	first	part	of	the	small	intestine	
called	the	duodenum.	 One	of	the	leading	causes	of	stomach	 ulcers	is	acid-	resistant	 bac-
teria	that	infect	the	lining	of	the	stomach	 and	thus	destroy	the	mucosal	 layer	(McManus	
2000).	The	 intestinal phase 	of	gastric	secretion	 begins	with	the	passage	of	chyme	into	
the	small	intestine.	 During	this	phase,	stomach	 motility	 and	secretion	 decreases	 to	
ensure	that	the	amount	of	chyme	entering	 the	small	intestine	 does	not	exceed	the	ability	
of	the	small	intestine	 to	process	it.	This	phase	also	involves	 the	action	of	the	pyloric	
sphincter	that	regulates	the	rate	at	which	chyme	is	released	into	the	small	intestine.
	 The	rate	of	gastric	emptying,	 or	the	rate	at	which	food	leaves	the	stomach,	 is	influ-
enced	by	several	factors,	including	 the	volume,	 consistency,	 and	composition	 of	chyme.	
For	example,	 large	volumes	 of	chyme	increase	 the	force	and	frequency	 of	peristaltic	 con-
tractions,	 which	in	turn	increase	 the	rate	of	gastric	emptying.	 Thus,	large	meals	leave	the	
stomach	 at	a	fast	rate	compared	 to	small	meals.	The	consistency	 of	food	(i.e.,	liquid	
versus	solid)	also	affects	the	rate	of	gastric	emptying.	 Because	 the	opening	 of	the	pyloric	
sphincter	 is	small,	only	fluids	and	small	particles	 (<2	mm	in	diameter)	 can	pass	through.	
Solid	foods	take	more	time	to	liquefy	than	fluid	and,	therefore,	 remain	in	the	stomach	
for	longer.	Finally,	the	nutrient	 composition	 of	the	chyme	also	influences	 gastric	
emptying.	 A	high-	fat	meal	will	stay	in	the	stomach	 the	longest.	This	is	because	 the	pres-
ence	of	fat	in	chyme	causes	the	small	intestine	 to	release	a	hormone	 called	 gastric inhibi -
tory protein .	This	hormone	 slows	the	rate	of	gastric	emptying,	 enabling	 the	small	
intestine	to	prepare	for	the	task	of	fat	digestion.
The small intestine
The	small	intestine	 is	the	primary	site	of	chemical	 digestion	 and	nutrient	 absorption.	 It	
is	a	narrow	tube	about	20	feet	in	length.	It	is	divided	into	three	segments.	 The	first	12	
inches are the duodenum ,	the	next	8	feet	are	the	jejunum,	and	the	last	10	feet	are	the	
ileum.	In	addition	 to	chyme,	the	duodenum	 receives	secretions	 from	the	gall-	bladder	via	
the	common	 bile	duct.	The	pancreas	 also	releases	its	secretions	 into	the	small	intestine.	
Pancreatic	 juice	is	released	 into	the	pancreatic	 duct,	which	eventually	 joins	the	common	
bile	duct.	The	cells	lining	the	small	intestine	 also	secrete	enzymes	 that	are	involved	 in	
the	digestion	 of	smaller	sugars	(e.g.,	disaccharides)	 and	polypeptides	 into	single	sugar	
units	and	amino	acids,	respectively.
	 The	pancreas	 secretes	pancreatic	 juice,	which	contains	 bicarbonate	 ions	and	digestive	
enzymes.	 The	bicarbonate	 ions	neutralize	 the	acid	in	chyme,	making	the	environment	 in	
the	small	intestine	 neutral	rather	than	acidic	as	it	is	in	the	stomach.	 This	neutral	environ-
ment	allows	enzymes	 from	the	pancreas	 and	small	intestine	 to	function.	 The	digestive	
enzymes	 from	the	pancreas	 include	pancreatic	 amylase,	 pancreatic	 lipase,	and	trypsin,	a	
protein-	digesting	 enzyme.	 These	enzymes	 continue	 the	job	of	digesting	 carbohydrates,	
lipids,	and	proteins	that	began	in	the	mouth	and	stomach.

144		 Digestion and absorption
	 The	gall-	bladder	 secretes	 bile,	but	this	substance	 is	produced	 in	the	liver.	Bile	is	a	
watery	solution	 that	consists	primarily	 of	cholesterol,	 bile	acids,	and	a	pigment	 that	gives	
bile	its	characteristic	 yellowish-	 green	color.	Once	bile	is	formed,	 it	is	transported	 to	the	
gall-	bladder,	 where	it	is	stored.	Bile	is	necessary	 for	fat	digestion	 and	absorption.	 Bile	
acts	like	a	detergent,	 dispersing	 large	globules	 of	fat	into	smaller	droplets.	 These	smaller	
droplets	 allow	pancreatic	 lipase	to	more	efficiently	 access	and	digest	fat	molecules.	
Without	 bile,	it	would	be	difficult	 for	enzyme	lipase	to	make	direct	contact	with	the	
chemical	 bonds.	Once	the	lipids	are	absorbed,	 bile	is	reabsorbed	 through	 the	ileum	and	
returned	 to	the	liver	via	the	hepatic	portal	vein.	This	process	enables	the	liver	to	recycle	
many	of	the	constituents	 that	make	up	bile.	Only	5	percent	of	the	bile	escapes	into	the	
large	intestine	and	is	lost	in	the	feces.
	 As	in	the	stomach,	 the	lining	of	the	small	intestine	 contains	 hormone-	 producing	
endocrine	 cells.	These	cells	release	the	enteric	hormones	 secretin,	cholecystokinin 
(CCK),	and	gastric	inhibitory	 protein	in	response	 to	conditions	 within	the	small	intes-
tine.	Secretin	 signals	to	the	pancreas	 to	secrete	bicarbonate	 ions	and	stimulates	 the	liver	
to secrete bile into the gall	bladder.	CCK	signals	to	the	pancreas	 to	secrete	digestive	
enzymes	 and	causes	the	gall bladder 	to	contract	 and	empty	its	contents	 into	the	duo-
denum	via	the	common	 bile	duct.	As	mentioned	 earlier,	gastric	inhibitory	 protein	slows	
the	rate	of	stomach	 motility	that	empties	 its	chyme	into	the	small	intestine.	 Together,	
these	enteric	hormones	 work	cooperatively	 to	ensure	that	digestion	 and	absorption	 in	
the	small	intestine	 are	rapid	yet	effective.	 The	roles	of	these	and	other	enteric	hormones	
in	the	process	of	digestion	are	summarized	in	 Table	7.2.
	 The	process	of	digestion	 physically	 and	chemically	 liberates	 nutrients	 in	food,	so	that	
nutrients	 are	now	ready	to	be	absorbed.	 The	small	intestine	 is	the	primary	site	of	absorp-
tion	for	virtually	 all	nutrients,	 including	 water,	vitamins,	 minerals,	 and	the	products	 of	
carbohydrate,	 lipid,	and	protein	digestion	 (Table 	7.3). 	The	physical	 structure	 of	the	
small	intestine	 is	very	important	 to	the	body’s	ability	to	digest	and	absorb	the	nutrients	 it	
needs.	In	addition	 to	its	length,	the	small	intestine	 has	two	other	structural	 features	that	
facilitate	 absorption.	 First,	the	intestinal	 walls	are	arranged	 in	circular	and	spiral	folds	
which	increase	 surface	area	in	contact	with	nutrients.	 Second,	 its	entire	inner	lining	is	
covered	with	finger-	like	projections	 called	 villi,	and	each	of	these	villi	is	covered	with	tiny	
microvilli ,	often	referred	 to	as	brush	borders	(Figure	7.4).	The 	combined	 folds,	villi,	and	
microvilli	 in	the	small	intestine	 increase	 its	surface	area	600	times	beyond	that	of	a	
simple	tube.	Each	villus	contains	 a	blood-	vessel	and	a	lymph	vessel,	which	are	located	
only	one	cell	layer	away	from	the	nutrients	 in	the	lumen	of	the	small	intestine.	 Lymph	
vessels	are	known	as	lacteals	and	can	absorb	large	particles	 such	as	the	products	 of	fat	
digestion.	 Nutrients	 must	cross	the	mucosal	 layer	to	reach	the	bloodstream	 or	lymphatic	
system	being	used	by	the	body.
	 The	transfer	 of	nutrients	 into	the	mucosal	 cells,	or	what	is	referred	 to	as	nutrient	
absorption,	 takes	place	by	passive	and	active	transport	 mechanisms:	 simple	diffusion,	
facilitated	diffusion,	and	active	transport	( Figure	7.5).
•	 Passive	 diffusion:	 When	the	nutrient	 concentration	 is	higher	in	the	lumen	of	the	
small	intestine	 than	in	the	absorptive	 cells,	the	difference	 in	the	nutrient	 concentra -
tion	drives	the	nutrient	 into	the	absorptive	 cells	through	 diffusion.	 Fats,	water,	fat-	
soluble	vitamins,	and	some	minerals	are	absorbed	by	passive	diffusion.
•	 Facilitated	 diffusion:	 Some	nutrients	 cannot	pass	freely	across	cell	membranes	 even	
though	there	is	a	favorable	 concentration	 gradient,	 and	they	require	a	carrier	
protein	to	drive	them	into	the	absorptive	 cells.	This	process	is	called	facilitated	 dif-
fusion.	Fructose	 is	one	example	 of	a	compound	 that	makes	use	of	such	carrier	
protein	to	allow	for	absorption.

Table 7.2	Hormones	that	regulate	digestion
Hormones Source Stimulus for secretion Major action
Gastrin Stomach •	Foods	entering	the	stomach
•	Stretch	of	the	stomach	wall
•	Alcohol	and	caffeine
•	Smell,	taste,	sight•	Stimulates	gastric	motility
•	Stimulates	gastric	emptying
•	Stimulates	gastric	secretions
Secretin Duodenum •	Arrival	of	acidic	chyme	into	the	small	intestine	 •	Inhibits gastric motility
•	Inhibits gastric secretions
•		Stimulates	release	of	pancreatic	juice	containing	
bicarbonate	ions	and	enzymes
Cholecystokinin Duodenum •		Arrival	of	partially	digested	fat	and	protein	
into the small intestine •	Stimulates	 gall bladder to contract and release bile
•	Stimulates	releases	of	pancreatic	juice
Gastric	inhibitory	
proteinDuodenum •		Arrival	of	fat	and	glucose	into	the	small	
intestine •	Inhibits gastric motility and emptying
•	Inhibits gastric secretions

Table 7.3	Major	sites	of	absorption	along	the	gastrointestinal	tract
Organ Primary nutrients absorbed
Stomach •	Alcohol	(20%)
•	Water	(minor	amount)
Small	intestine •	Calcium,	magnesium,	iron,	and	other	minerals
•	Glucose
•	Amino	acids
•	Fats
•	Vitamins
•	Water	(70–90%	of	total)
•	Alcohol	(80%	of	total)
•	Bile	acids	
Large	intestine •	Sodium
•	Potassium
•	Some	fatty	acids
•	Some	minerals
•	Some	vitamins
•	Water	(10–30%	of	total)
Simple columnar
epithelium
Lacteal
Blood capillary networ k
Intestinal gland
Goblet cellsVillus
Arteriole
Venule
Lymph vessel
G
Arterio
Venul
Lymph
A
V
L
Figure 7.4 		The	small	intestine	 contains	 folds,	villi,	and	microvilli,	 which	increase	 the	
absorptive	surface	area
Source:	Shier	 et al.	(2010).	Used	with	permission.

Digestion and absorption 		147
•	 Active	 transport:	 In	addition	 to	the	need	for	a	carrier	protein,	 some	nutrients	 also	
require	energy	input	to	move	from	the	lumen	of	the	small	intestine	 into	the	absorp-
tive	cells.	This	mechanism	 makes	it	possible	 for	cells	to	take	up	nutrients	 even	when	
they	are	consumed	 in	low	concentrations.	 Glucose	 as	well	as	most	amino	acids	is	
absorbed	by	this	mechanism.
The large intestine
Components	 of	chyme	that	are	not	absorbed	 in	the	small	intestine	 pass	into	the	large	
intestine,	 which	includes	 the	cecum,	colon,	and	 rectum.	The	cecum,	the	first	portion	of	
the	large	intestine,	 is	a	short,	saclike	structure	 with	an	attached	 appendage	 consisting	 of	
lymphatic	 tissue	called	the	appendix .	On	occasion,	 trapped	 materials	 can	cause	the	
appendix	 to	become	 inflamed	 which	may	necessitate	 an	appendectomy	 –	the	surgical	
removal	 of	the	appendix.	 The	ileocecal	 sphincter	 that	separates	 the	ileum	from	the	
cecum	regulates	 the	intermittent	 flow	of	material	 from	the	ileum	to	the	cecum.	The	
colon,	which	makes	up	most	of	the	large	intestine,	 is	shaped	like	an	inverted	 letter	U	Low
concentration
Simple diffusion
Facilitated diffusion that
requires a protein carr ier
Activ e transpor t that
requires energyHigh
concentration
Figure 7.5 		Nutrients	 are	absorbed	 from	the	lumen	into	absorptive	 cells	by	simple	diffu-
sion,	facilitated	diffusion,	and	active	transport

148		 Digestion and absorption
and	consists	of	the	ascending	 colon,	the	transverse	 colon,	and	the	descending	 colon.	
Following	 the	descending	 colon	is	the	rectum,	which	terminates	 at	the	anal	canal,	the	
segment	of	the	large	intestine	that	leads	outside	of	the	body.
	 When	 the	contents	 of	the	small	intestine	 enter	the	large	intestine,	 the	materials	 left	
bear	little	resemblance	 to	the	food	originally	 eaten.	Under	normal	circumstances,	 only	a	
minor	amount	 (5	percent)	 of	carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins	 escape	absorption	 to	
reach	the	large	intestine.	 The	large	intestine	 differs	from	the	small	intestine	 in	that	there	
are	no	villi	or	digestive	 enzymes.	 The	absence	 of	villi	means	that	little	absorption	 takes	
place	in	the	large	intestine	 compared	 with	the	small	intestine.	 Nutrients	 absorbed	 from	
the	large	intestine	 include	 water,	some	fatty	acids,	some	vitamins,	 and	the	minerals	
sodium	and	potassium	 (Table 	7.3). 	Peristalsis	 in	the	large	intestine	 is	slower	than	that	in	
the	small	intestine.	 Water,	nutrients,	 and	fecal	matter	may	spend	24	hours	in	the	large	
intestine,	 in	contrast	 to	the	3	to	5	hours	it	takes	for	chyme	to	move	through	 the	small	
intestine.	 This	slow	movement	 favors	the	growth	of	bacteria.	 Unlike	the	small	intestine,	
the	large	intestine	 wall	has	mucus-	producing	 cells.	The	mucus	secreted	 by	these	cells	
functions	 to	hold	the	feces	together	 and	to	protect	the	large	intestine	 from	the	bacterial	
activity	within	it.
	 The	large	intestine	 is	home	to	a	high	population	 of	bacteria.	 Whereas	 the	stomach	
and	small	intestine	 have	some	bacterial	 activity,	the	large	intestine	 is	the	organ	most	
heavily	colonized	 with	bacteria.	 In	fact,	over	500	species	of	bacteria	 may	be	found	in	the	
large	intestine.	 The	number	 and	type	of	bacteria	 in	the	human	colon	has	recently	
become	 a	subject	of	great	interest.	 Research	 has	shown	that	intestinal	 bacteria	 play	a	
significant	 role	in	the	maintenance	 of	health,	especially	 health	of	the	colon.	For	
example,	 certain	bacteria	 can	synthesize	 small	amounts	 of	B	vitamins	 and	vitamin	K,	
some	of	which	will	be	absorbed.	 These	higher	levels	of	beneficial	 organisms	 have	also	
been	found	to	reduce	the	activity	of	disease-	causing	bacteria.	 Foods	containing	 certain	
micro-	organisms,	 such	as	lactobacilli,	 are	attracting	 a	lot	of	attention.	 The	term	 probiotic 
is	used	for	these	micro-	organisms	 because	once	consumed,	 they	take	up	residence	 in	the	
large	intestine	 and	lead	to	certain	health	benefits,	 such	as	improving	 immunity	 and	
intestinal	 tract	health	(Madsen	 2001).	The	probiotic	 micro-	organisms	 may	be	found	in	
certain	kinds	of	milk	and	yogurt	as	well	as	in	pill	forms	that	are	made	commercially	
available.
	 Materials	 not	absorbed	 are	excreted	 as	waste	products	 in	the	feces.	The	amount	 of	
water	in	the	feces	is	affected	 by	fiber	and	fluid	intake.	Fiber	retains	water,	so	when	ade-
quate	fiber	and	fluid	are	consumed,	 feces	will	have	a	high	water	content	and	are	easily	
passed.	However,	 when	material	 moves	too	quickly	through	 the	colon	for	sufficient	 water	
to	be	reabsorbed,	 diarrhea	 may	occur.	Diarrhea	 is	considered	 beneficial	 when	it	allows	
the	body	to	eliminate	 harmful	 or	irritating	 materials	 quickly.	 However,	 prolonged	
diarrhea	 may	result	in	excessive	 loss	of	fluids	and	electrolytes	 from	the	body,	which	can	
lead	to	serious	complications	 such	as	dehydration.	 Conversely,	 when	inadequate	 fiber	or	
fluid	is	consumed	 or	too	much	water	is	removed,	 feces	will	become	 hard	and	dry,	and	
constipation	may	result.
Paths of absorbed nutrients
Absorbed	 materials	 are	delivered	 to	the	body	cells	by	the	cardiovascular	 system,	which	
consists	of	the	heart	and	blood-	vessels.	The	path	by	which	nutrients	 enter	the	blood-
stream	varies	with	the	nutrient.	 Amino	acids	from	protein,	 simple	sugars	from	carbohy-
drate,	and	the	water-	soluble	products	 of	fat	such	as	glycerol	 are	absorbed	 directly	into	
the	bloodstream.	 The	products	 of	fat	digestion	 such	as	fatty	acids	that	are	not	water	
soluble	are	taken	into	the	lymphatic	system	before	entering	the	blood.

Digestion and absorption 		149
	 The	cardiovascular	 system	consists	 of	the	heart	and	a	closed	network	 of	a	vascular	
system	through	 which	blood	is	circulated.	 The	heart	is	considered	 the	engine	of	the	
cardiovascular	 system.	It	is	a	muscular	 pump	with	two	circulatory	 circuits	–	one	that	
delivers	the	blood	to	the	lungs	and	one	that	delivers	the	blood	to	the	rest	of	the	body. 	
The	blood	vessels	that	transport	 the	blood	toward	the	heart	are	called	 veins,	and	
those	that	transport	 blood	away	from	the	heart	are	called	 arteries.	As	arteries	carry	
blood	away	from	the	heart,	they	branch	many	times	to	become	 smaller	and	smaller.	
The	smallest	 arteries	are	called	 arterioles .	Arterioles 	then	branch	to	form	capillaries	
that	have	a	thin	wall	and	narrow	diameter,	 and	are	permeable	 to	many	small	parti-
cles.	A	capillary 	network	marks	the	end	of	the	arterial	blood	flow	to	the	cell	and	the	
beginning 	of	the	venous	blood	flow	away	from	the	cell	and	back	to	the	heart.	In	the	
capillaries	 of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract,	water	soluble	nutrients	 diffuse	across	the	wall	
of	capillaries	 into	the	bloodstream	 that	flows	into	the	small	veins,	the	venules,	which	
converge	 to	form	larger	and	larger	veins	for	return	to	the	heart.	These	nutrients 	
are	then	pumped	 out	of	the	heart	into	arteries	 to	be	delivered	 to	various	parts	of	
the	body.
	 The	intestine	 and	liver	have	a	unique	circulatory	 arrangement	 called	the	hepatic 
portal circulation .	In	this	circulation,	 water-	soluble	nutrients	 such	as	amino	acids	and	
sugars	cross	the	mucosal	 cells	of	the	villi	and	enter	capillaries.	 These	capillaries	 merge	to	
form	venules	at	the	base	of	the	villi.	The	venules	then	merge	to	form	larger	veins,	which	
eventually	 form	the	hepatic	portal	vein.	The	hepatic	portal	vein	then	transports	 blood	
directly	to	the	liver,	where	absorbed	 nutrients	 are	processed.	 This	arrangement	 gives	the	
liver	first	access	to	the	nutrient-	 rich	blood	leaving	the	small	intestine.	 Nutrients	 taken	up	
by	the	liver	can	be	stored	or	may	undergo	 metabolic	 reactions.	 The	liver	also	releases	
nutrients	 into	the	blood,	which	are	then	circulated	 to	other	parts	of	the	body.	In	addi-
tion	to	nutrients,	 substances	 that	are	potentially	 harmful	 to	the	body	such	as	alcohol	are	
also	taken	up	and	detoxified	by	the	liver.
	 The	liver	acts	as	a	gatekeeper	 between	 substances	 absorbed	 from	the	intestine	 and	
the	rest	of	the	body	(Vander	 et al.	2001).	Some	nutrients	 are	stored	in	the	liver,	some	are	
changed	 into	different	 forms,	and	others	are	allowed	to	pass	through	 unchanged.	 Based	
on	the	immediate	 needs	of	the	body,	the	liver	decides	whether	 individual	 nutrients	 will	
be	stored,	used,	or	delivered	 directly	to	the	cells.	For	example,	 the	liver	modulates	 blood	
glucose	by	storing	or	releasing	 the	absorbed	 glucose	depending	 on	the	level	of	blood	
glucose	concentrations.	 The	liver	is	also	responsible	 for	the	synthesis	 or	breakdown	 of	
protein	and	fats.	It	modifies	 the	products	 of	protein	degradation	 to	form	molecules	 that	
can	be	safely	transported	 to	the	kidneys	for	excretion.	 The	liver	also	helps	protect	the	
body	from	toxins	or	to	remove	cholesterol	from	the	blood	and	use	it	to	make	bile.
	 Another	 major	structure	 in	a	close	relationship	 with	digestion	 and	absorption	 is	the	
lymphatic	 system.	The	lymphatic	 system	consists	 of	a	network	 of	lymph	vessels	and	
lymph	nodes,	and	lymph	organs	such	as	the	spleen	that	provide	protection	 to	the	body.	
Fluid	that	has	accumulated	 in	tissues	drains	into	the	lymphatic	 system	where	it	is	fil-
tered	past	a	collection	 of	infection-	 fighting	 cells.	The	cleansed	 fluid	is	then	returned	 to	
the	bloodstream.
	 Unlike	 water-	soluble	nutrients,	 most	lipids	cannot	easily	enter	blood	 capillaries  
because	 they	are	too	large	and	insoluble	 in	water.	Consequently,	 molecules	 such	as	
triglycerides,	 fatty	acids,	and	fat-	soluble	vitamins	 are	taken	up	by	lacteals,	which	are	more	
permeable	 than	blood	capillaries.	 Lacteals,	 the	smallest	 lymph	vessels,	drain	these	
absorbed	 nutrients	 into	larger	lymph	vessels.	These	larger	lymph	vessels	from	the	intes-
tine	and	most	other	organs	of	the	body	further	drain	into	the	thoracic	 duct,	which	
empty	into	the	bloodstream	 near	the	neck	region.	Thus,	nutrients	 that	are	absorbed	 via	
lacteals	do	not	pass	the	liver	before	entering	the	blood.

150		 Digestion and absorption
Factors affecting food intake and choice
We	need	nutrients	 to	survive,	but	we	eat	food,	not	nutrients.	 There	are	hundreds	 of	food	
choices	to	make	and	hundreds	 of	reasons	for	making	them.	Each	of	these	choices	con-
tributes	to	our	total	nutrient	 intake.	Some	foods	are	rich	in	protein	and	minerals,	 others	
in	vitamins	 and	phytochemicals.	 Most	of	us	understand	 that	nutrition	 is	important	 to	
our	health,	yet	people	don’t	want	to	give	up	their	favorite	foods	and	they	don’t	want	to	
eat	foods	they	don’t	like.	Our	food	choices	 are	primarily	 affected	 by	hunger	and	
appetite.	 They	may	also	be	influenced	 by	what	is	available	 to	us,	where	we	eat,	what	is	
within	our	budget,	which	is	compatible	 with	our	lifestyle,	 what	is	culturally	 acceptable,	
what	mood	we	are	in,	and	what	we	think	we	should	eat.
Hunger and appetite
Hunger	 and	appetite	 are	the	two	drives	that	influence	 our	desire	to	eat.	They	differ	
dramatically.	 Hunger is considered biological in origin and is controlled by internal 
body	mechanisms.	 For	example,	 as	nutrients	 are	processed	 by	the	stomach	 and	small	
intestine,	 these	organs	send	signals	to	the	liver	and	brain	to	reduce	further	food	intake.	
Appetite,	on	the	other	hand,	is	considered	 psychological	 in	origin	and	is	controlled	 by	
external	 food	choice	mechanisms.	 For	example,	 your	appetite	 is	intensified	 as	you	see	a	
tempting	 dessert	or	smell	fresh	popcorn	 in	the	movie	theater.	 We	eat	in	response	 to	
hunger.	However,	 what,	when,	and	how	much	we	eat	are	also	affected	by	appetite,	 which	
is	not	necessarily	 related	to	hunger.	 Fulfilling	 either	or	both	drives	by	eating	sufficient	
food	normally	 brings	on	a	state	of	satiety,	a	feeling	of	fullness	and	satisfaction,	 which	
halts	our	desire	to	continue	eating.
Role of the hypothalamus
The	hypothalamus,	 a	region	of	the	brain,	mediates	 the	effect	of	hunger	and	appetite	 and	
helps	regulate	satiety	(Figure 	7.6). 	Signals	to	eat	or	stop	eating	can	be	external,	 originating 	
from	environment,	 or	they	can	be	internal,	 originating	 from	the	gastrointestinal	 tract,	cir-
culating	 nutrients,	 or	higher	centers	in	the	brain.	External	 factors	that	stimulate	 eating	
include	the	sight,	taste,	and	smell	of	food,	the	time	of	day,	culture	and	social	gathering,	 the	
appeal	of	the	foods	available,	 and	ethnic	and	religious	 rituals.	We	eat	lunch	at	noon	out	of	
social	convention,	 often	not	because	 we	are	hungry.	 We	eat	turkey	on	Thanksgiving 	
because	it	is	a	tradition.	 We	eat	cookies	or	cinnamon	 rolls	while	walking	through	 the	mall	
because	the	smell	entices	us	to	buy	them.	Likewise,	 external	factors	such	as	religious	 dietary	
obligations	 or	negative	 experiences	 associated	 with	certain	foods	can	signal	us	to	stop	
eating.	In	addition, 	our	knowledge 	of	and	belief	in	nutrition 	and	body	weight	and	image	
can	also	influence	 our	eating	behavior.	 For	example,	 what	we	think	of	as	“healthy	 foods”	
often	direct	our	food	purchase,	 and	some	people	select	certain	foods	and	supplements 	
that	they	believe	will	improve	their	physical	appearance	or	performance.
	 Internal	 signals	that	promote	 hunger	and	satiety	originate	 both	before	and	after	
foods	are	consumed.	 The	simplest	 type	of	signal	about	food	intake	comes	from	local	
nerves	in	the	walls	of	the	stomach	 and	small	intestine	 that	sense	the	volume	and	pressure	
of	the	food	and	send	a	message	 to	the	brain	to	either	start	or	stop	eating.	The	presence	
of	food	in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	also	triggers	the	release	of	gastrointestinal	 hormones	
such	as	cholecystokinin,	 which	causes	satiety.	Absorbed	 nutrients	 may	also	send	informa-
tion	to	the	brain	to	modulate	 food	intake.	Circulating	 levels	of	nutrients,	 including	
glucose,	 fatty	acids,	amino	acids,	and	ketones,	 are	monitored	 by	the	brain	and	may	
trigger	signals	to	eat	or	not	to	eat.	Nutrients	 taken	up	by	the	brain	may	affect	the	

Digestion and absorption 		151
neurotransmitter	 concentrations,	 which	then	affect	the	amount	 and	types	of	nutrients	
consumed.	 For	example,	 when	brain	serotonin	 is	low,	carbohydrates	 are	craved,	but	
when	it	is	high,	proteins	 are	preferred.	 The	pancreas	 is	also	involved	 in	food	intake	regu-
lation	because	 it	releases	 insulin,	which	triggers	a	feeling	of	fullness	and,	as	a	result,	
decreases	the	drive	to	eat.
Psychological stress
Psychological	 factors	may	also	affect	eating	behavior.	 Psychological	 distress	may	come	
from	events	in	the	external	 environment,	 but	processing	 of	these	events	occurs	in	the	
brain	cortex.	The	effect	that	emotions	 have	on	appetite	 depends	 on	the	individual.	
Some	people	eat	for	comfort	 and	to	relieve	stress.	Others	may	lose	their	appetite	 when	
they	become	 emotional	 or	distressed.	 A	depressed	 person	may	choose	to	eat	chocolates	
rather	than	to	call	a	friend.	A	person	who	has	returned	 home	from	an	exciting	 evening	
out	may	unwind	with	a	late-	night	sandwich.	 These	people	may	find	emotional	 comfort,	
in	part,	because	foods	can	influence	the	brain’s	chemistry.
	 Overall,	 daily	food	intake	is	a	complicated	 mix	of	biological	 and	social	influences.	 It	
means	so	much	more	to	us	than	nourishment	 and	it	reflects	much	of	what	we	think	
about	ourselves.
Immune function of the digestive system
The	gastrointestinal	 tract	plays	an	important	 role	in	protecting	 the	body	from	infection	
by	foreign	invaders.	 The	lumen	of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	is	outside	of	the	body	and	Appearance and fla vor of f ood
Consumption of f ood
Hypothalamus
Conscious thinking in the brain that
produces satiety signals
Termination
of eatingStomach and
intestinal
expansionLiver and
adipose signalsSecretion of
gastr ic hor mones
Figure 7.6 	Process	of	satiety

152		 Digestion and absorption
much	of	it	is	heavily	populated	 with	potentially	 pathogenic	 micro-	organisms.	 Thus,	it	is	
important	 that	the	immune	 system	establishes	 and	maintains	 a	strong	presence	 at	this	
mucosal	 boundary.	 Indeed,	the	digestive	 tract	is	heavily	laden	with	lymphocytes,	 macro-
phages,	and	other	cells	that	participate	 in	immune	 responses.	 The	cells	of	the	intestines	
form	an	important	 barrier	to	invading	 substances	 or	antigens.	The	cells	are	packed	
closely	together,	 producing	 a	physical	 barrier	to	micro-	organisms.	 If	an	invading	 sub-
stance	does	get	past	the	intestinal	 cells,	it	will	then	be	confronted	 by	the	action	of	the	
immune	 related	cells.	These	immune	 cells	trigger	the	production	 of	antibodies ,	such	as	
immunoglobulins ,	which	are	specialized	 proteins	 that	function	 to	counteract	 antigens.	
Immunoglobulins	 can	bind	to	the	invading	 substances,	 thereby	preventing	 them	from	
entering	the	bloodstream.
	 Nutrient	 deficiencies	 can	weaken	the	mucosal	 membrane	 so	that	foreign	invaders	 can	
more	easily	enter	the	body	and	cause	infections.	 Two	common	 results	of	undernutrition	
related	to	an	impaired	 immune	 system	are	diarrhea	 and	bacterial	 infections	 of	the	
bloodstream.	 Nutrients	 that	have	proven	effective	 in	protecting	 the	health	of	the	intesti-
nal	tract	are	proteins,	vitamin	A,	vitamin	B6,	vitamin	B12,	vitamin	C,	folate,	and	zinc.
	 The	immune	 system	is	a	defense	 mechanism	 that	protects	 us	from	many	invaders.	
However,	 the	response	 of	the	immune	 system	to	a	foreign	substance	 is	also	responsible	
for	allergic reaction .	An	allergic	reaction	 occurs	when	the	immune	 system	produces	 anti-
bodies	in	response	 to	a	substance,	 called	an	allergen,	that	is	present	in	our	diet	or	
environment.	 For	example,	 a	food	allergy	occurs	when	proteins	 absorbed	 from	food	are	
seen	as	foreign	which	trigger	an	immune	 response.	 Symptoms	 due	to	food	allergy	
include	hives,	itching,	flushing,	 swelling	 of	the	lips,	tongue	and	roof	of	the	mouth,	and	
breathing	 difficulty	 or	anaphylaxis.	 The	most	common	 sources	of	food	allergens	 are	
peanuts,	 tree	nuts	(such	as	walnuts,	 pecans,	and	cashews),	 shellfish	 (such	as	shrimp	and	
lobster),	fish,	milk,	eggs,	wheat,	and	soy.
Common problems with digestion and absorption
Each	of	the	organs	and	processes	 of	the	digestive	 system	is	necessary	 for	the	proper	
digestion	 and	absorption	 of	food.	However,	 this	fine-	tuned	organ	system	can	develop	
problems.	 As	discussed	 above,	many	factors	influence	 gastrointestinal	 function.	 The	
central	nervous	system	exerts	a	strong	influence	 through	 diverse	neural-	endocrine	 con-
nections	 with	different	 digestive	 organs.	Emotional	 state	can	also	affect	digestive	 func-
tion	in	various	degrees.	 For	example,	 many	individuals	 experience	 intestinal	 cramping	
and	a	queasy	stomach	 under	stressful	 conditions	 such	as	a	“big	date”	or	“big	game.”	
Some	individuals	 get	an	“upset	stomach”	 at	the	sight	of	their	own	blood,	and	it	is	well	
known	that	emotional	 stress	contributes	 to	the	production	 of	gastric	abnormalities.	
Recent	evidence	 suggests	 that	most	gastrointestinal	 problems	 can	be	treated	with	a	
healthy	 diet	and	regular	 exercise.	 For	example,	 regular	 exercise	 enhances	 gastric	
emptying,	 with	a	concomitant	 reduction	 in	the	incidence	 of	liver	disease,	 gallstones,	
colon	cancer,	and	constipation.
	 Problems	 associated	 with	any	digestive	 organ	or	process	can	inhibit	the	ability	to	
obtain	adequate	 nutrients	 and	thus	adversely	 affect	nutritional	 status.	For	example,	
dental	problems	 may	make	it	difficult	 to	chew,	limiting	 the	types	of	food	that	can	be	
consumed	 and	reducing	 contact	between	 nutrients	 in	food	and	digestive	 enzymes.	 Pan-
creatic	problems	 can	limit	the	availability	 of	enzymes	 needed	to	digest	fat	and	proteins,	
and	liver	or	gall-	bladder	 problems	 can	interfere	 with	fat	absorption.	 The	following	
section	provides	 a	brief	description	 of	some	of	the	more	common	 digestive	 abnormal -
ities.	The	more	we	know	about	these	conditions,	 the	more	likely	it	is	that	we	can	prevent	
or	lessen	them.

Digestion and absorption 		153
Lactose intolerance
Lactose intolerance 	is	a	condition	 that	often	begins	after	early	childhood.	 It	can	lead	to	
symptoms	 of	abdominal	 pain,	gas,	and	diarrhea	 after	consuming	 lactose	especially	 when	
eaten	in	a	large	amount.	 Another	 form	of	the	problem,	 namely	secondary	 lactose	intol-
erance,	is	a	temporary	 condition	 in	which	the	production	 of	enzyme	lactase	decreases	 in	
response	 to	other	conditions	 such	as	diarrhea.	 The	symptoms	 of	lactose	intolerance	
include	gas,	abdominal	 bloating,	 cramps,	and	diarrhea.	 The	bloating	 and	gas	are	caused	
by	bacterial	 fermentation	 of	lactose	in	the	large	intestine.	 The	diarrhea	 is	caused	by	
undigested	 lactose	in	the	large	intestine	 as	it	draws	water	from	the	circulatory	 system	
into	the	large	intestine.
	 In	the	United	States,	approximately	 25	percent	 of	adults	show	signs	of	decreased	
lactose	digestion	 in	the	small	intestine	 (Lee	and	Krasinski	 1998).	Many	of	them	are	Asian	
Americans,	 Africa	Americans,	 and	Latino/Hispanic	 Americans,	 and	the	occurrence	
increases	 as	people	age.	It	is	considered	 that	this	digestive	 problem	 is	due	to	a	genetic	
mutation	 occurring	 in	regions	that	rely	on	milk	and	dairy	products	 as	a	main	food	
source,	allowing	 those	individuals	 (mostly	in	Northern	 Europe	and	the	Middle	East)	to	
retain	the	ability	to	maintain	a	high	production	of	enzyme	lactase.
	 Bacteria	 in	the	large	intestine	 can	break	down	lactose.	Therefore,	 those	with	mild	
lactose	intolerance	 symptoms	 can	still	tolerate	a	small	amount	of	milk	(i.e.,	half	to	one	
cup),	especially	 when	consumed	 with	meals.	Combining	 lactose-	containing	 foods	with	
other	foods	helps	because	 certain	properties	 of	foods	can	have	positive	effects	on	the	
rate	of	digestion.	 For	example,	 fat	in	a	meal	slows	digestion,	 which	then	leaves	more	
time	for	lactase	to	produce	 its	action.	Hard	cheese	and	yogurt	are	more	easily	tolerated	
than	milk	because	much	of	the	lactose	is	lost	in	the	production	 process,	and	the	bacteria	
cultures	 in	yogurt	can	digest	the	lactose	when	they	are	broken	apart	in	the	small	intes-
tine.	If	necessary,	 products	 such	as	low-	lactose	or	lactose-	free	milk	or	lactase	pills	may	be	
used	to	assist	those	who	are	lactose	intolerant.
Ulcers
A	peptic	 ulcer	can	occur	when	the	lining	of	the	esophagus,	 stomach,	 or	small	intestine	 is	
eroded	by	the	acid	secreted	 by	the	stomach	 cells.	As	the	stomach	 lining	deteriorates	 in	
ulcer	development,	 it	loses	its	protective	 mucus	layer,	and	the	acid	further	erodes	the	
stomach	 tissue.	Acid	can	also	damage	 the	lining	of	the	esophagus	 and	the	first	part	of	
the	small	intestine,	 the	duodenum.	 The	typical	symptom	 of	an	ulcer	is	pain	about	two	
hours	after	eating.	This	is	because	 the	stomach	 acid	released	 for	digestion	 irritates	the	
ulcer	after	most	of	the	meal	has	moved	from	the	site	of	ulcer.
	 The	further	risk	associated	 with	an	ulcer	is	that	it	will	damage	the	entire	stomach	 and	
intestinal	 wall.	Consequently,	 the	gastrointestinal	 contents	 can	spill	into	the	body	cavi-
ties,	causing	massive	infection.	 In	addition,	 an	ulcer	may	erode	a	blood-	vessel,	leading	to	
substantial	 blood	loss.	For	these	reasons,	 it	is	important	 not	to	ignore	the	early	warning	
signs	of	ulcer	development,	 including	 a	burning	 near	the	stomach	 that	occurs	immedi-
ately	following	 a	meal	or	wakes	you	up	at	night.	Other	signs	and	symptoms	 of	ulcers	are	
weight	loss,	nausea,	vomiting,	loss	of	appetite,	and	abdominal	bloating.
	 It	has	long	been	thought	 that	the	major	cause	of	ulcers	is	an	excessive	 production	 of	
acid.	As	such,	neutralizing 	and	curtailing 	the	secretions 	of	stomach	acid	has	been	the	
common 	treatment 	choice.	However, 	it	has	been	recognized 	recently	that	although 	acid	is	
still	a	significant	 player	in	ulcer	formation,	 the	principle	 causes	of	ulcer	disease	are	(1)	infec-
tion	of	the	stomach	 by	acid-	resistant	 bacteria	such	as	Helicobacter Pylori ,	heavy	use	of	anti-	
inflammatory	 drugs	such	as	aspirin,	and	other	disorders	 that	cause	excessive	 acid	production 	

154		 Digestion and absorption
in	the	stomach. 	Stress	is	considered 	as	a	predisposing 	factor	for	ulcers,	especially 	if	the	
person	is	infected	with	 Helicobacter Pylori 	or	has	certain	anxiety	disorders.	 Cigarette	 smoking	
is	also	known	to	cause	ulcers	or	increase	ulcer	complications	such	as	bleeding.
Heartburn
Heartburn 	occurs	when	the	sphincter	 between	 the	esophagus	 ad	stomach	 relaxes	invol-
untarily,	 allowing	 the	stomach’s	 contents	 to	flow	back	into	the	esophagus.	 Unlike	the	
stomach,	 the	esophagus	 has	no	protective	 mucus	lining	so	acid	back	flow	can	damage	it	
and	cause	pain.	Other	symptoms	 may	also	include	nausea,	gagging,	 coughing,	 or	hoarse-
ness.	The	recurrent	 and	therefore	 more	serious	form	of	the	problem	 is	called	gastro-
esophageal	 reflux	disease	(GERD),	 which	is	characterized	 by	the	occurrence	 of	such	
symptoms	 two	or	more	times	a	week.	Typically,	 the	gastroesophageal	 sphincter	 should	
be	relaxed	only	during	swallowing,	 but	in	individuals	 with	GERD	it	is	relaxed	at	other	
times	as	well.
	 Heartburn	 or	GERD	occurs	in	approximately	 60	percent	 of	athletes	 and	more	
frequently	 during	exercise	 than	at	rest.	The	mechanisms	 for	why	this	condition	 is	more	
prevalent	 among	athletes	 or	during	exercise	 are	not	well	understood.	 The	many	
speculations	 include:	 (1)	reduced	 gastric	motility;	 (2)	delayed	 gastric	emptying;	
(3)	relaxation	 of	the	lower	esophageal	 sphincter;	 (4)	increased	 intra-	abdominal	 pres-
sure,	and	(5)	increased	 mechanical	 stress	by	the	bouncing	 of	gastrointestinal	 organs.	
Athletes	 involved	 in	predominantly	 anaerobic	 sports	such	as	weight	lifting	experience	
most	frequent	 acid	reflux	and	heartburn,	 while	these	symptoms	 are	found	to	be	less	fre-
quent	and	milder	in	runners	and	cyclists.
	 Heartburn	 sufferers	 should	follow	the	general	recommendations	 of	(1)	waiting	about	
two	hours	after	a	meal	before	lying	down;	(2)	avoiding	 post-	prandial	 exercise;	 (3)	redu-
cing	meal	size	and	fat	consumption,	 and	(4)	elevating	 the	head	of	the	bed.	For	occa-
sional	heartburn,	 quick	relief	can	be	found	with	over-	the-counter	 medications,	 such	as	
antacids.	 Prescription	 medications	 are	available	 for	treating	 more	persistent	 heartburn	
or	GERD.	If	the	proper	medications	 are	not	effective	 at	controlling	 the	problem,	 surgery	
may	be	needed	to	strengthen	the	weakened	esophageal	sphincter.
Constipation
Constipation 	refers	to	a	delay	in	stool	movement	 through	 the	colon.	As	fluid	is	increas-
ingly	absorbed	 during	the	extended	 time	the	feces	stay	in	the	large	intestine,	 they	
become	 dry	and	hard.	Constipation	 may	result	when	people	regularly	 inhibit	their	
normal	bowel	reflexes	for	long	periods.	 Another	 common	 cause	is	the	regular	consump -
tion	of	a	diet	high	in	fat	and	low	in	water	and	fiber	content.	 Muscle	spasms	of	an	irri-
tated	large	intestine	 can	also	slow	the	movement	 of	feces	and	contribute	 to	constipation.	
In	addition,	 calcium	 and	iron	supplements	 and	medications	 such	as	antacids	 may	also	
cause	constipation.
	 Eating	 foods	with	plenty	of	fiber	such	as	fruits	and	wholegrain	 breads	and	cereals	
along	with	drinking	 adequate	 fluids	is	the	best	approach	 to	treating	mild	cases	of	consti-
pation	(Müller-Lissner	 et al.	2005).	Fiber	stimulates	 peristalsis	 by	drawing	 water	into	the	
large	intestine	 and	forming	 a	bulky,	soft	stool.	Dried	fruits	are	a	good	source	of	fiber	
and	therefore	 help	stimulate	 the	bowel.	In	addition,	 people	with	constipation	 may	need	
to	develop	a	habit	that	allows	the	same	time	each	day	for	a	bowel	movement.	 For	more	
severe	constipation,	 laxatives	 as	well	as	various	other	medications	 may	be	used	to	lessen	
the	problem.	 These	medications	 work	by	either	stimulating	 peristaltic	 muscle	contrac-
tion	or	by	drawing	more	water	to	produce	a	bulky	stool.

Digestion and absorption 		155
Hemorrhoids
Hemorrhoids 	are	painful,	 swollen	veins	in	the	lower	portion	 of	the	rectum	or	anus.	
This	is	often	because	 blood-	vessels	in	this	region	are	subject	to	intense	pressure,	 espe-
cially	during	pregnancy	 and	after	childbirth,	 obesity,	prolonged	 sitting,	violent	cough-
ing	or	sneezing,	 or	straining	 during	bowel	movements,	 particularly	 with	constipation. 	
Such	an	increase	 in	pressure	 causes	the	veins	to	bulge	and	expand,	 making	 them	
painful,	 particularly	 when	sitting.	Hemorrhoids	 may	be	located	 inside	the	rectum	
(internal	 hemorrhoids),	 or	they	may	develop	 under	the	skin	around	the	anus	(exter-
nal	hemorrhoids).	 Internal	 hemorrhoids	 occur	just	inside	the	anus,	at	the	beginning 	
of	the	rectum.	External	 hemorrhoids	 occur	at	the	anal	opening	 and	may	hang	outside	
the	anus.
	 Hemorrhoids	 are	a	common	 digestive	 disorder.	 By	the	age	of	50,	about	half	of	
adults	have	had	to	deal	with	the	itching,	discomfort,	 and	bleeding	 that	can	signal	the	
presence	 of	hemorrhoids.	 Pressure	 from	prolonged	 sitting	or	exertion	 is	often	enough	
to	trigger	the	symptoms,	 although	 diet,	lifestyle,	 and	possibly	 heredity	 play	a	role.	Pain	
may	be	lessened	 by	applying	 warm,	soft	compresses	 or	sitting	in	a	tub	of	warm	water	
for	15	to	20	minutes.	 Dietary	recommendations	 are	the	same	as	those	for	treating	 con-
stipation,	 emphasizing	 the	need	to	consume	 adequate	 fiber	and	water.	Symptoms	 can	
also	be	alleviated 	by	using	over-	the-counter 	creams	and	suppositories, 	although 	these	
medications 	should	only	be	used	for	a	short	time	because	long-	term	use	can	damage	
the	skin.
Diarrhea
Diarrhea 	is	the	condition	 of	having	three	or	more	loose	or	liquid	bowel	movements	 per	
day.	It	is	very	common	 and	usually	not	serious,	and	is	accompanied	 by	symptoms	 of	
abdominal	 bloating	 or	cramps,	thin	or	loose	stools,	a	sense	of	urgency	 to	have	a	bowel	
movement,	 and	nausea	and	vomiting.	 Many	people	will	have	diarrhea	 once	or	twice	a	
year.	It	typically	 lasts	for	two	to	three	days	and	can	be	treated	with	over-	the-counter	 med-
icines.	Diarrhea	 may	also	occur	as	part	of	irritable	 bowel	syndrome	 or	other	chronic	dis-
eases	of	the	large	intestine.	 Most	cases	of	diarrhea	 result	from	infections	 caused	by	
bacteria	 and	viruses,	which	can	cause	the	intestinal	 cells	to	secrete	rather	than	absorb	
fluid.	Other	causes	include	 eating	foods	that	upset	the	digestive	 system,	allergies	 to	
certain	foods,	certain	medications,	 intestinal	 diseases,	 malabsorption,	 and	alcohol	abuse.	
Diarrhea	 may	also	follow	constipation,	 especially	 for	people	who	have	irritable	 bowel	
syndrome.
	 Distance	 runners	 are	more	susceptible	 to	diarrhea.	 Possible	 causes	include	fluid	and	
electrolyte	 and	altered	colonic	motility.	 However,	 such	acute	exercise-	 induced	 diarrhea	
is	considered	 physiological,	 meaning	 that	it	does	not	produce	 dehydration	 or	electrolyte	
imbalances,	and	tends	to	improve	with	fitness	levels.
	 Treatment	 of	diarrhea	 generally	 requires	 drinking	 lots	of	fluids	during	the	affected	
stage	and	reducing 	ingestion 	of	the	poorly	absorbed 	substance 	if	that	is	a	cause.	To	
alleviate	 symptoms,	 those	who	have	diarrhea	 may	choose	fruit	juice	without	 pulp,	
soda	without	caffeine, 	chicken	broth	without	the	fat,	tea	with	honey,	and	sports	
drinks.	Over-	the-counter	 medicines	 as	liquids	or	tablets	are	also	available	 for	treating	
mild	diarrhea.	 Prompt	 treatment	 within	24	hours	is	especially	 important	 for	infants	
and	older	individuals,	 as	they	are	more	susceptible	 to	the	effects	of	dehydration	 asso-
ciated	with	diarrhea. 	Adults	who	suffer	from	diarrhea 	for	more	than	seven	days	
should	be	examined	 by	a	physician,	 as	it	can	be	a	symptom	 of	more	serious	intestinal 	
disease.

156		 Digestion and absorption
Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Irritable Bowel Syndrome 	(IBS)	is	a	functional	 bowel	disorder	 characterized	 by	chronic	
abdominal	 pain,	discomfort,	 bloating,	 and	alteration	 of	bowel	habits	in	the	absence	 of	
any	detectable	 cause.	The	two	IBS	forms	include	 (1)	diarrhea	 predominant,	 and	
(2)	constipation	 predominant.	 In	most	cases	the	symptoms	 are	relieved	 by	bowel	move-
ments.	The	exact	cause	of	IBS	is	unknown.	 The	most	common	 theory	is	that	IBS	is	a	
disorder	 of	the	interaction	 between	 the	brain	and	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	(Andresen 	
and	Camilleri	 2006).	In	other	words,	those	who	suffer	from	IBS	have	altered	intestinal 	
peristalsis	 coupled	 with	a	decreased	 pain	threshold	 for	abdominal	 distension.	 IBS	may	
begin	following	 an	infection,	 a	stressful	 life	event,	or	onset	of	maturity	 without	 any	
other	medical	indicators.
	 IBS	affects	20	percent	 of	the	adult	population	 and	is	more	common	 in	younger	
women	than	in	younger	 men.	In	older	adults,	the	ratio	is	closer	to	50:50.	Approximately	
50	percent	 of	patients	 with	IBS	also	report	psychiatric	 symptoms	 of	depression	 and	
anxiety.
	 No	cure	has	been	found	for	IBS,	but	many	options	are	available	 to	treat	the	symp-
toms.	For	many	people,	careful	eating	reduces	IBS	symptoms.	 For	example,	 dietary	fiber	
may	lessen	IBS	symptoms,	 particularly	 constipation.	 Wholegrain	 breads	and	cereals,	
fruits,	and	vegetables	 are	good	sources	of	fiber.	High-	fiber	diets	keep	the	colon	mildly	
distended,	 which	may	help	prevent	spasms.	Dietary	fiber	also	keeps	water	in	the	stool,	
thereby	preventing	 hard	stools	that	are	difficult	to	pass.	This	diet	intervention,	 however,	
may	not	help	with	lowering	 pain	or	decreasing	 diarrhea.	 Other	lifestyle	 therapies	
include:	 (1)	consuming	 meals	of	a	smaller	size;	(2)	avoiding	 dairy	products;	 (3)	stress	
management,	 and	(4)	regular	exercise.	 IBS	may	also	be	treated	with	medications	 used	to	
decrease	constipation,	diarrhea,	and	intestinal	muscle	spasm.
Gallstones
Gallstones 	are	pieces	of	solid	material	 that	develop	in	the	gall bladder 	when	substances	
in	the	bile,	primarily	 cholesterol,	 form	crystal-	like	particles.	 They	may	be	as	small	as	a	
grain	of	sand	or	as	large	as	a	golf	ball.	Gallstones	 are	caused	by	a	combination	 of	factors,	
including	 inherited	 body	chemistry,	 body	weight,	gall-	bladder	 motility,	 and	diet,	with	
excess	weight	being	the	primary	 factor	especially	 in	women	(Marschall	 and	Einarsson	
2007).	The	absence	 of	such	risk	factors	does	not,	however,	 preclude	 the	formation	 of	
gallstones.	 Many	people	with	gallstones	 have	never	had	any	symptoms.	 The	gallstones	
are	often	discovered	 when	having	a	routine	X-	ray,	abdominal	 surgery,	 or	other	medical	
procedure.	 However,	 if	a	large	stone	blocks	either	the	cystic	duct	or	common	 bile	duct,	
you	may	have	a	cramping	 pain	in	the	middle	to	right	upper	abdomen.	 The	pain	goes	
away	if	the	stone	passes	into	the	first	part	of	the	small	intestine,	the	duodenum.
	 Gallstones	 can	be	treated	by	using	medications,	 such	as	ursodeoxycholic	 acid,	that	
help	with	dissolving	 the	stone	or	by	using	a	procedure	 called	lithotripsy,	 which	is	a	
method	 of	concentrating	 ultrasonic	 shock	waves	onto	the	stones	to	break	them	up.	
However,	 these	forms	of	treatment	 are	only	suitable	when	there	are	a	small	number	 of	
gallstones.	 Surgical	 removal	 of	the	gall bladder 	is	the	most	common	 method	for	treating	
gallstones.	 Gall-	bladder	removal	 has	a	99	percent	chance	of	eliminating	 the	recurrence	
of	gallstones.	In	most	people,	the	lack	of	a	 gall bladder 	has	no	negative	consequences.
	 Prevention	 of	gallstones	 revolves	 around	avoiding	 becoming	 overweight,	 especially	
for	women.	 Avoiding	 rapid	weight	loss,	substituting	 animal	protein	with	plant	protein,	
and	following	 a	high-	fiber	diet	will	help	as	well.	Regular	 physical	 activity	is	also	recom-
mended,	as	is	moderate	to	no	caffeine	and	alcohol	intake.

Digestion and absorption 		157
Summary
•	 Hydrolysis	 reactions	 digest	or	break	down	complex	 molecules	 such	as	carbohydrates,	
lipids,	and	proteins	 into	simpler	forms	that	the	body	absorbs	and	assimilates.	 The	
reactions	 for	hydrolysis	 also	occur	in	the	opposite	 direction	 known	as	condensation,	
a	process	during	which	individual	 components	 of	the	nutrients	 bind	together	 to	
form	more	complex	molecules.
•	 Enzymes	 are	proteins	 that	play	a	major	role	in	digestion	 as	well	as	in	the	regulation	
of	metabolic	 pathways	 in	the	cells.	Digestive	 enzymes	 are	secreted	 by	the	mouth,	
stomach,	 small	intestine,	 and	pancreas	 and	function	 to	facilitate	 the	movement	 and	
breakdown	of	food	molecules.
•	 The	 digestive	 system	involves	 the	gastrointestinal	 tract	consisting	 of	a	hollow	tube	
that	begins	at	the	mouth	and	continues	 through	 the	esophagus,	 stomach,	 small	
intestine,	 and	large	intestine.	 It	also	includes	 accessory	 organs,	such	as	the	liver,	 gall 
bladder,	and	pancreas.
•	 The	 stomach	 acts	as	a	temporary	 storage	site	for	food.	The	muscles	of	the	stomach	
mix	the	food	into	a	semi-	liquid	mass	called	chyme,	and	gastric	juice	containing	
hydrochloric	 acid	and	pepsin	begins	protein	digestion.	 Little	absorption	 occurs	in	
the	stomach	except	for	some	water	and	alcohol.
•	 The	 small	intestine	 is	the	primary	site	of	nutrient	 digestion	 and	absorption	 and	con-
sists	of	fingerlike	 projections	 call	villi.	In	the	small	intestine,	 bicarbonate	 from	the	
pancreas	 neutralizes	 stomach	 acid,	and	pancreatic	 and	intestinal	 enzymes	 digest	car-
bohydrates,	 fats,	and	proteins.	 The	digestion	 of	fat	in	the	small	intestine	 is	aided	by	
bile	from	the	 gall bladder .
•	 Components	 of	chyme	that	are	not	absorbed	 in	the	small	intestine	 pass	on	to	the	
large	intestine,	 where	some	water	and	mineral	are	absorbed.	 The	large	intestine	 is	
populated	 by	bacteria	 that	digest	some	of	these	unabsorbed	 materials,	 such	as	fiber,	
and	products	 from	bacterial	 breakdown	 of	fibers	and	other	substances	 are	also	
absorbed	here.
•	 The	 water-	soluble	products	 of	carbohydrate,	 fat,	and	protein	digestion	 enter	the	
capillaries	 in	the	intestinal	 villi	and	are	transported	 to	the	liver	via	the	hepatic	portal	
circulation.	 The	liver	serves	as	a	processing	 center,	storing	some	of	the	absorbed	
substances	 in	the	liver,	converting	 some	of	them	into	other	forms,	or	allowing	 them	
to	pass	unchanged.
•	 The	 fat-	soluble	products	 of	digestion,	 such	as	fatty	acids,	enter	lacteals	in	the	intesti-
nal	villi.	The	nutrients	 absorbed	 via	the	lymphatic	 system	enter	the	blood	circulation	
without	first	passing	to	the	liver.
•	 Absorption	 of	food	across	the	intestinal	 mucosa	 occurs	by	several	different	 pro-
cesses,	including	 simple	diffusion,	 facilitated	 diffusion,	 and	active	transport.	 Both	
simple	and	facilitated	 diffusion	 do	not	require	energy,	but	depend	on	a	concentra -
tion	gradient.	 Active	transport	 requires	 energy,	but	may	transport	 nutrients	 against	
a	concentration	gradient.
•	 Hunger	 and	appetite	 are	the	two	drives	that	influence	 our	desire	to	eat.	The	hypo-
thalamus,	 a	region	of	the	brain,	mediates	 the	effect	of	hunger	and	appetite	 and	
helps	regulate	satiety.
•	 Signals	 to	eat	or	stop	eating	can	be	external,	 originating	 from	environments	 includ-
ing	sight,	taste,	and	smell,	or	they	can	be	internal,	 originating	 from	the	gastrointesti -
nal	tract,	circulating	nutrients,	or	higher	centers	in	the	brain.
•	 The	 lumen	of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	is	outside	of	the	body	and	much	of	it	is	
heavily	populated	 with	potentially	 pathogenic	 micro-	organisms.	 Thus,	it	is	important	
for	the	immune	 system	to	establish	 and	maintain	 a	strong	presence	 at	this	mucosal	
boundary.

158		 Digestion and absorption
•	 Many	 of	the	common	 digestive	 disorders,	 such	as	heartburn	 constipation,	 and	irrita-
ble	bowel	syndrome,	 can	be	treated	with	diet	changes.	 These	may	include	increasing	
fiber	intake	and	avoiding	 large	meals	high	in	fat.	Medications	 are	also	very	helpful	
in	many	cases.
Case study: understanding the condition of lactose intolerance
Lily,	a	26-year-	old	Asian	graduate	 student	reading	biomedical	 engineering,	 had	been	
experiencing	 occasional	 discomfort	 after	meals.	The	discomfort	 had	reached	 a	new	
peak	the	previous	 Thursday	 evening	 about	an	hour	after	consuming	 a	cheeseburger	
and	a	large	chocolate	 milk	shake.	Lily	spent	much	of	the	night	in	pain.	She	had	
abdominal	 cramps	and	diarrhea,	 and	also	felt	sick	to	her	stomach.	 Lily	went	to	the	
clinic	and	saw	a	doctor	the	following	 day.	The	doctor	asked	Lily	a	number	 of	questions	
and	noted	that	Lily’s	discomfort	 seemed	to	be	associated	 with	dining	out.	Lily	told	the	
doctor	that	on	most	evenings	 she	cooked	for	herself,	usually	preparing	 traditional	
Asian	cuisine,	and	that	she	seldom	experienced	 any	discomfort	 after	eating	at	home.	
When	asked	if	she	used	very	much	milk	or	cheese	when	preparing	 meals	at	home,	Lily	
told	the	doctor	that	she	almost	never	cooked	with	dairy	products.	 The	doctor	suspected	
that	Lily	could	be	lactose	intolerant	 and	told	Lily	that	she	would	like	to	have	a	test	per-
formed	to	verify	her	initial	diagnosis.	 Lily	was	able	to	be	tested	on	that	day	because	she	
had	not	had	anything	 to	eat	or	drink	for	two	hours.	At	the	clinic	lab,	Lily	was	given	a	
lactose-	rich	fluid	to	drink	and	had	her	blood	glucose	level	measured	 several	times	over	
the	course	of	two	hours.	Later,	her	doctor	informed	 Lily	that	her	blood	glucose	level	
had	not	risen	after	drinking	 the	lactose-	rich	fluid	and	therefore	 she	was	lactose	
intolerant.
Questions
•	 What	is	lactose	intolerance?
•	 Why	is	this	condition	associated	with	stomach	discomfort	and	diarrhea?•	 What	 kinds	of	dietary	adjustments	 should	Lily	consider	 in	order	to	avoid	or	ease	the	
symptoms	of	this	condition?
Review questions
	1	 Define	the	terms	(1)	hydrolysis,	and	(2)	condensation.
	2	 What	is	peristalsis?
	3	 How	does	the	structure	of	the	small	intestine	aid	absorption?
	4	 Why	is	it	important	to	maintain	an	acidic	environment	in	the	stomach?
	5	 How	is	the	inner	lining	of	the	stomach	 protected	 from	acid	HCl?	How	is	the	small	
intestine	protected	from	acidic	chyme	coming	from	the	stomach?
	6	 Both	pepsin	and	trypsin	are	enzymes	 involved	 in	protein	digestion.	 Explain	the	dif-
ferences	between	the	two.
	7	 One	of	the	medications	 used	to	treat	stomach	 ulcers	is	to	inhibit	gastric	secretion	 of	
HCL.	If	such	medication	 is	used	for	too	long,	digestion	 of	which	food	item	will	be	
affected.	Why?
	8	 Explain	 how	gastrin,	secretin,	 cholecystokinin,	 and	gastric	inhibitory	 protein	regu-
late	the	digestion	process.
	9	 Cholecystokinin,	 leptin,	and	insulin	are	the	three	satiety	hormones	 discussed	 in	class.	
Where	is	each	hormone	secreted	from?	How	do	they	regulate	our	energy	intake?

Digestion and absorption 		159
10	 How	 is	the	liver	related	to	digestion	 and	absorption?	 Digestion	 of	what	type	of	
nutrient	would	be	affected	the	most	if	the	liver	were	severely	damaged?	Why?
11	 How	 is	the	pancreas	 connected	 to	the	digestive	 tract?	What	enzymes	 does	the	pan-
creas	produce	in	helping	digestion?
12	 Define	 the	terms	(1)	passive	diffusion,	 (2)	facilitate	 diffusion,	 and	(3)	active	
transport.
13	 What	 is	“portal	circulation”?	 What	role	does	portal	circulation	 play	in	digestion	 and	
absorption?
14	 Define	 the	terms	hunger,	appetite,	 and	satiety.	Explain	the	role	of	the	hypothalamus	
in	regulating	hunger	and	satiety.
15	 What	are	the	internal	and	external	signals	that	promote	hunger	and	satiety?
Suggested reading
	1	 Bi	L,	Triadafilopoulos	 G	(2003)	Exercise	 and	gastrointestinal	 function	 and	disease:	
an	evidence-	 based	review	of	risks	and	benefits.	 Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology ,	
1:	345–355.
 This article evaluates the effect of the different modes and intensity levels of exercise on gastroin -
testinal function and disease using an evidence- based approach. It provides much- needed 
information, as the impact of exercise on the gastrointestinal system has been conflicting.
	2	 Peters	 HP,	De	Vries	WR,	Vanberge-	 Henegouwen	 GP,	Akkermans	 LM	(2001)	Poten-
tial	benefits	and	hazards	of	physical	activity	and	exercise	 on	the	gastrointestinal	 tract.	
Gut,	48:	435–439.
 Physical activity reduces the risk of colon cancer. However, acute strenuous exercise may provoke 
gastrointestinal symptoms such as heartburn or diarrhea. This review describes the current state 
of knowledge on the hazards of exercise and the potential benefits of physical activity on the gas -
trointestinal tract.
	3	 Williams	 C,	Serratosa	 L	(2006)	Nutrition	 on	match	day.	 Journal of Sports Science ,	24:	
687–697.
 This article takes a practical approach in discussing how to design regular meals and dietary 
supplementation for a match or competition. In particular, the effect of consuming various types 
of carbohydrate on sports performance is discussed.
Glossary
Allergen	a	substance	that	causes	an	allergic	reaction.
Allergic reaction 	the	response	of	the	immune	system	to	a	foreign	substance.
Antibodies 	specialized	proteins	that	function	to	counteract	antigens.
Antigens 	invading	substances	that	induce	an	immune	response	in	the	body.
Appendix 	a	blind-	ended	tube	connected	to	the	cecum.
Appetite	a	neurological	 drive	that	influences	 one’s	desire	to	eat	and	is	controlled	 by	
external	factors	such	as	sight,	smell,	hearing,	and	social	functions.
Arteries	the	blood-	 vessels	that	transport	the	blood	away	from	the	heart.
Arterioles 	the	smallest	arteries	that	branch	to	form	capillaries.
Bolus	the	soft,	moist	mass	of	food	formed	from	chewing,	 grinding,	 and	mixing	with	
saliva.
Cecum	the	first	portion	of	the	large	intestine.
Cephalic phase 	the	time	period	before	food	enters	the	stomach.
Chemoreceptors 	sensory	receptors	 that	detect	changes	 in	the	chemical	 composition	 of	
the	luminal	contents.

160		 Digestion and absorption
Cholecystokinin 	also	referred	 to	as	CC,	the	hormone	 produced	 from	the	small	intes-
tine	that	signals	the	pancreas	 to	secrete	enzymes	 and	causes	the	gall bladder  to con-
tract	and	empty	its	contents	into	the	duodenum.
Chyme	a	semi-	liquid	food	mass	formed	 from	mixing	with	highly	acidic	stomach	
secretions.
Coenzymes 	non-	protein	substances	 such	as	ions	and/or	smaller	organic	molecules	 that	
facilitate	enzyme	action.
Colon	the	largest	section	of	the	large	intestine	 consisting	 of	the	ascending	 colon,	the	
transverse	colon,	and	the	descending	colon.
Condensation 	an	anabolic	 process	during	which	individual	 components	 of	the	nutri-
ents	bind	together	to	form	more	complex	molecules.
Constipation 	 	a	delay	in	stool	movement	through	the	colon.
Diarrhea 	a	condition	 of	having	three	or	more	loose	or	liquid	bowel	movements	
per	day.
Duodenum 	the	first	12	inches	of	the	small	intestine.
Energy of activation 	the	energy	required	to	initiate	chemical	reactions.
Enteric endocrine system 	hormone-	 producing	 cells	located	within	the	gastrointestinal	
tract.
Enteric nervous system 	the	local	nervous	 system	located	within	the	gastrointestinal	
tract.
Enzymes 	a	group	of	proteins	 that	function	 to	regulate	 the	speed	at	which	the	reaction	
takes	place.
Epiglottis 	a	flap	of	tissue	near	the	pharynx	 that	prevents	 the	bolus	of	swallowed	 food	
from	entering	the	trachea.
Gallstones 	pieces	of	solid	material	 that	develop	in	the	gall-	bladder	when	substances	 in	
the	bile,	primarily	cholesterol,	form	crystal-	 like	particles.
Gastric inhibitory protein 	a	hormone	 released	 from	the	small	intestine	 that	slows	the	
rate	of	gastric	emptying.
Gastric phase 	the	time	period	that	begins	when	food	enters	the	stomach.
Gastrin	the	hormone	 secreted	 from	the	upper	portion	of	the	stomach	 that	triggers	the	
release	of	gastric	juice,	such	as	hydrochloric	acid.
Gastrointestinal tract 	a	hollow	tube	or	alimentary	 canal	that	runs	from	the	mouth	to	
the	anus.
Heartburn 	a	condition	 in	which	the	sphincter	 between	 the	esophagus	 and	stomach	
relaxes	involuntarily,	 allowing	 the	stomach’s	 contents	 to	flow	back	into	the	
esophagus.
Hemorrhoids 	painful,	swollen	veins	in	the	lower	portion	of	the	rectum	or	anus.
Hepatic portal circulation 	the	circulatory	 arrangement	 in	the	abdominal	 cavity	that	
drains	blood	from	the	gastrointestinal	tract	and	spleen	to	capillary	beds	in	the	liver.
Hunger	a	neurological	 drive	that	influences	 one’s	desire	to	eat	and	is	controlled	 by	
internal	body	mechanisms,	such	as	the	activities	of	the	stomach	and	small	intestine.
Hydrolysis 	chemical	 reactions	 that	digest	or	break	down	complex	 molecules	 into	
simpler	forms.
Ileum	the	last	section	of	the	small	intestine,	 which	is	10	feet	long	and	leads	to	the	large	
intestine.
Immunoglobulins 	specific	types	of	antibodies.
Intestinal phase 	the	time	period	that	begins	when	chyme	is	passed	into	the	small	
intestine.
Irritable bowel syndrome 	a	functional	 bowel	disorder	 characterized	 by	chronic	abdom-
inal	pain,	discomfort,	 bloating,	 and	alteration	 of	bowel	habits	in	the	absence	 of	any	
detectable	cause.

Digestion and absorption 		161
Jejunum	the	next	8	feet	of	the	small	intestine	in	between	the	duodenum	and	ileum.
Lacteals	lymphatic	 capillaries	 that	absorb	large	particles	 such	as	the	products	 of	fat	
digestion.
Lactose intolerance 	a	condition	 that	leads	to	symptoms	 of	abdominal	 pain,	gas,	and	
diarrhea	after	consuming	lactose	especially	in	large	amounts.
Lower esophageal sphincter 	the	sphincter	 located	between	 the	esophagus	 and	the	
stomach	that	prevents	foods	from	moving	back	out	of	the	stomach.
Lumen	the	inside	of	the	gastrointestinal	tract.
Mechanoreceptors 	sensory	receptors	 that	detect	stretching	 or	distension	 in	the	walls	of	
the	gastrointestinal	tract.
Microvilli 	tiny,	hair-	like	folds	in	the	plasma	membrane	 that	extend	from	the	surface	of	
the	epithelial	cells	of	the	intestinal	wall.
Pepsin	the	enzyme	that	breaks	protein	down	into	shorter	chains	of	amino	acids	or	
polypeptides.
Peptic ulcers 	erosion	in	the	lining	of	the	stomach	 or	the	first	part	of	the	small	intestine	
called	the	duodenum.
Peristalsis 	a	type	of	gastrointestinal	 movement	 that	involves	rhythmic,	 wave-	like	muscle	
contractions	that	propel	food	along	the	entire	length	of	the	gastrointestinal	tract.
Probiotics 	living	micro-	organisms	 that	take	up	residence	 in	the	large	intestine	 and	
provide	certain	health	benefits.
Pyloric sphincter 	sphincter	 located	at	the	base	of	the	stomach	 that	controls	 the	rate	at	
which	the	chyme	is	released	into	the	small	intestine.
Rectum	the	last	section	of	the	large	intestine	that	follows	the	descending	colon.
Satiety	a	feeling	of	fullness	and	satisfaction	that	halts	one’s	desire	to	continue	eating.
Secretin	the	hormone	 produced	 from	the	small	intestine	 and	which	signals	the	pan-
creas	to	secrete	bicarbonate	ions	and	stimulate	the	liver	to	secrete	bile.
Segmentation 	a	type	of	gastrointestinal	 movement	 when	circular	muscles	in	the	small	
intestine	move	the	food	mass	back	and	forth.
Sphincter 	a	muscle	that	encircles	the	tube	of	the	digestive	tract	and	acts	as	a	valve.
Substrates 	substances	or	chemical	compounds	that	are	acted	upon	by	enzymes.
Ulcer  a	condition	 where	the	lining	of	the	digestive	 tract	is	eroded	by	the	acid	secreted	
by	the	stomach	cells.
Veins  the blood	vessels 	that	transport	the	blood	toward	the	heart.
Venules	the	smallest	veins	that	receive	blood	flow	from	the	capillaries	 and	converge	 to	
form	larger	veins	for	return	to	the	heart.
Villi	tiny,	finger-	like	projections	 that	protrude	 from	the	epithelial	 lining	of	the	
intestinal	wall.

8 Energy and energy- yielding metabolic 
pathways
Contents
Key terms 163
Energy 163
•	 Energy	 163
•	 The	first	law	of	thermodynamics	 164
•	 Unit	of	energy	 164
•	 Potential	and	kinetic	energy	 164
•	 Oxidation	and	reduction	 165
•	 Biologically	usable	form	of	energy	 165
Energy	consumption	 166
•	 Measurement	of	energy	content	of	foods	 166
•	 Digestive	efficiency	 168
•	 Atwater	general	factors	 169
•	 Bodily	energy	stores	 169
Energy	transformation	 170
•	 The	ATP-	 PCr	system	(phosphagen	system)	 171
•	 The	glycolytic	system	(glycolysis)	 171
•	 The	oxidative	pathway	 174
•	 Chemiosmotic	hypothesis	and	uncoupling	proteins	 176
•	 Oxidation	of	lipids	and	proteins	 176
•	 Energy	transformation	in	sports	and	physical	activity	 178
Control	of	energy	transformation	 179
•	 Homeostasis	and	steady	state	 180
•	 The	control	system	and	its	operation	 181
•	 Neural	and	hormonal	control	systems	 182
Summary	 185
Case	study	 186
Review	questions	 187
Suggested	reading	 187
Glossary	 188

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways   163
Key terms
•	 Acetylcholine	 •	 Acetyl-	 CoA
•	 Adenosine	triphosphate	 •	 Bioenergetics
•	 Biosynthesis	 •	 Catabolism
•	 Chemiosmotic	hypothesis	 •	 Digestive	efficiency
•	 Energy	 •	 First	law	of	thermodynamics
•	 Flavin	adenine	dinucleotide	 •	 Glycogenolysis
•	 Glycolysis	 •	 Glycolytic	system
•	 Homeostasis	 •	 Kinetic	energy
•	 Lipolysis	 •	 Mechanical	energy
•	 Negative	feedback	 •	 Neurotransmitters
•	 Nicotinamide	adenine	dinucleotide	 •	 Norepinephrine
•	 Oxidation	 •	 Oxidative	phosphorylation
•	 Oxidizing	agents	 •	 Parasympathetic
•	 Phosphagen	system	 •	 Phosphocreatine
•	 Phosphorylation	 •	 Potential	energy
•	 Redox	 •	 Reducing	agents
•	 Reduction	 •	 Respiratory	chain
•	 Second	messengers	 •	 Steady	state
•	 Sympathetic	 •	 Uncoupling	proteins
Energy
Energy	is	required	 by	all	cells.	In	order	for	you	to	jump,	throw,	run,	swim,	or	cycle,	skele-
tal	muscle	cells	must	be	able	to	extract	energy	from	energy-	containing	 nutrients	 such	as	
carbohydrates	 and	fats.	Energy	is	also	needed	for	other	bodily	functions	 such	as	circula-
tion,	digestion,	 absorption,	 glandular	 secretion,	 neural	transmission,	 and	biosynthesis,	
to	just	name	of	a	few.	Although	 the	body	has	some	energy	reserves,	 most	of	its	energy	
must	be	obtained	 through	 nutrition.	 Most	cells	possess	chemical	 pathways	 that	are	
capable	 of	converting	 energy-	containing	 nutrients	 into	a	biologically	 usable	form	of	
energy.	This	metabolic	 process	is	termed	 bioenergetics .	During	exercise,	 energy	require-
ment	increases,	 and	energy	provision	 can	become	 critical.	In	fact,	inability	 to	transform	
energy	contained	 in	foodstuffs	 rapidly	into	biologically	 usable	energy	would	limit	sports	
performance.	 In	athletes,	 carbohydrate	 depletion	 represents	 one	of	the	most	common	
causes	of	fatigue.	On	the	other	hand,	persons	with	a	defect	in	energy	metabolism	cannot	
tolerate	 high-	intensity	 exercise.	 For	example,	 those	with	McArdle’s	 disease	who	have	
trouble	with	degrading	 muscle	glycogen	 for	energy	will	have	impaired	 exercise	 capacity.	
The	amount	 of	food	energy	available	 coupled	 with	the	ability	to	transform	 the	food	
energy	into	the	form	that	is	usable	by	body	cells	is	what	dictates	how	well	the	body	
responds	 to	physical	 stress.	As	such,	it	is	imperative	 to	understand	 what	energy	is	and	
how	the	body	acquires,	converts,	stores,	and	utilizes	energy.
Energy
Energy	is	defined	as	the	ability	to	produce	 change	and	is	measured	 by	the	amount	 of	
work	performed	 during	a	given	change.	Unlike	the	physical	properties	 of	matter,	energy	
cannot	be	defined	in	concrete	 terms	of	size,	shape,	or	mass.	The	presence	 of	energy	is	
revealed	 only	when	change	occurs.	Energy	is	often	reflected	 in	exercise	 performance	
during	which	energy	stored	in	macronutrients	 is	extracted	 and	ultimately	 transformed	
into	 adenosine triphosphate 	(ATP)	in	order	to	power	mechanical	 work.	The	faster	the	
energy	transformation,	the	greater	the	exercise	performance.

164		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
The first law of thermodynamics
The first law of thermodynamics 	states	that	the	body	does	not	produce,	 consume,	 or	use	
up	energy;	it	merely	transforms	 energy	from	one	state	to	another.	 Indeed,	 energy	is	
neither	created	nor	destroyed.	 It	exists	in	many	forms	that	can	be	converted	 from	one	to	
another.	 For	example,	 it	has	become	increasingly	 popular	 to	use	solar	panels	to	convert	
the	sun’s	rays	or	light	energy	into	electricity.	 In	the	body,	energy	is	first	obtained	 from	
energy-	containing	 nutrients	 in	food	and,	in	most	circumstances,	 then	being	converted	 as	
potential	 energy	stored	in	the	body	tissues.	Via	cellular	respiration,	 this	potential	 energy	
is	then	converted	 into	the	high-	energy	compound	 adenosine	 triphosphate	 (ATP)	as	well	
as	heat.	The	energy	in	ATP	is	used	for	a	variety	of	biological	 work,	including	 muscle	con-
traction,	 synthesizing	 molecules,	 and	transporting	 substances.	 That	energy	is	neither	
created	nor	destroyed	 during	any	physical	 and/or	chemical	 process	is	one	of	the	most	
important	 axioms	of	science,	the	law	of	the	conservation	 of	energy	that	applies	to	both	
living	and	not-	living	systems.	The	first	law	of	thermodynamics	 may	be	viewed	as	a	version	
of	the	law	of	the	conservation	of	energy	that	is	adapted	for	a	living	system.
Unit of energy
Within	the	biological	 context,	 energy	is	measured	 in	joules	(J)	or	kilojoules	 (kJ),	which	
are	units	of	work,	or	in	calories	(cal)	or	kilocalories	 (kcal	or	Cal),	which	are	units	of	
heat.	A	kJ	is	the	amount	of	work	required	 to	move	an	object	of	1	kilogram	 a	distance	 of	
1	meter	under	the	force	of	gravity.	In	Europe	and	most	parts	of	Asia,	the	J	or	kJ	is	the	
standard	 measure	 of	energy	in	food	and	the	body.	However,	 the	cal	or	kcal	is	
the	measure	most	commonly 	used	in	the	United	States	and	Canada.	In	theory,	a	kcal	is	the	
amount	 of	heat	required	 to	raise	the	temperature	 of	1	kilogram	 of	water	by	1	degree	
Celsius.	Any	measure	 by	kcal	or	kJ	is	1000	times	greater	as	compared	 to	that	by	cal	or	J,	
respectively.	 To	convert	cal	to	J	or	kcal	to	kJ,	the	calorie	value	needs	to	be	multiplied	 by	
4.186,	i.e.,	1	 cal	=	4.186	J	or	1	kcal	=	4.186	kJ.
Potential and kinetic energy
In	the	area	of	exercise	 science,	 the	form	of	energy	that	powers	muscle	contraction	 is	
often	described	 as	mechanical energy ,	and	activities	 such	as	walking,	 running,	 swimming,	
jumping,	 and	throwing	 require	the	production	 of	mechanical	 energy.	This	form	of	
energy	is	possessed	 by	an	object	due	to	its	motion	or	its	position	 or	internal	 structure.	
Mechanical	 energy	can	be	either	 kinetic energy 	(energy	of	motion)	 or	potential energy  
(energy	 of	position).	 For	example,	 a	book	on	a	shelf	has	stored	potential	 energy.	In	
addition,	 by	stretching	 a	rubber	band,	you	give	it	potential	 energy.	Kinetic	energy,	on	
the	other	hand,	can	be	illustrated	 by	individuals	 performing	 physical	 activity.	Thinking	
of	a	gymnast	 who	is	on	the	balance	beam,	the	movements	 and	flips	she	performs	 show	
the	kinetic	energy	being	displayed	 while	she	is	moving.	 When	you	are	running,	 walking,	
or	jumping,	 your	body	is	also	exhibiting	 kinetic	energy.	Both	forms	of	energy	can	exist	
at	the	same	time,	but	often	change	from	one	form	to	another.	 For	example,	 the	water	at	
the	top	of	the	waterfall	 has	stored	potential	 energy.	Once	the	water	leaves	the	top	of	the	
waterfall,	 the	potential	 energy	is	changed	 into	kinetic	energy.	Within	a	biological	 system,	
such	a	transfer	 of	energy	may	be	exemplified	 as	energy	stored	in	energy-	containing	
nutrients	 being	released	 through	 catabolism ,	a	process	in	which	more	complex	 sub-
stances	are	broken	down	into	simpler	ones.	In	this	case,	the	released	 potential	 energy	is	
transformed	 into	kinetic	energy	of	motion.	 On	the	other	hand,	 biosynthesis 	may	be	
viewed	as	a	reverse	process	in	which	energy	in	one	substance	 is	transferred	 into	other	
substance	so	that	their	potential	energy	increases.

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		165
Oxidation and reduction
The	majority	 of	chemical	 reactions	 that	occur	in	the	body	involve	the	transfer	of	elec-
trons	from	one	substance	 to	another.	 Oxidation 	is	the	loss	of	electrons	 during	a	reaction	
by	a	molecule,	 atom,	or	ion.	Some	elements	 lose	electrons	 more	easily	than	others.	
These	elements	 are	said	to	be	easily	oxidized.	 Generally	 speaking,	 metals,	including	
sodium,	 magnesium,	 and	iron,	are	easily	oxidized.	 Elements	 that	are	more	reluctant	 to	
lose	electrons	 are	not	easily	oxidized;	 they	hold	onto	their	electrons	 very	tightly.	Non-	
metals,	including	 nitrogen,	 oxygen,	and	chlorine,	 are	not	easily	oxidized.	 On	the	other	
hand,	 reduction 	is	any	chemical	 reaction	 that	involves	the	gaining	of	electrons.	 It	refers	
to	the	molecule,	 atom,	or	ion	that	accepts	electrons.	 For	example,	 when	iron	reacts	with	
oxygen	it	forms	a	chemical	 called	rust,	the	common	 name	for	iron	oxide	(Fe2O3).	In	
that	example,	the	iron	is	oxidized	and	the	oxygen	is	reduced.
	 Oxidation	 and	reduction	 reactions	 are	always	coupled	 and	are	thus	often	regarded	 as	
Redox,	an	abbreviation	 for	a	chemical	 reduction–oxidation	 reaction.	 Redox	reactions	
involve	the	transfer	of	electrons	 between	 chemical	 species;	that	is,	electrons	 being	passed	
from	one	molecule	 to	another,	 resulting	 in	the	one	that	gains	the	electrons	 becoming	
reduced,	 and	the	one	that	loses	the	electrons	 becoming	 oxidized.	 Accordingly,	 the	term	
reducing agent 	refers	to	the	substance	 that	donates	 or	loses	electrons	 as	it	oxidizes,	
whereas	 the	substance	 being	reduced	 or	gaining	electrons	 is	called	the	oxidizing agent .	
Oxygen	is	not	necessarily	 needed	in	such	reactions,	 as	other	chemical	 species	can	serve	
the	same	function.
	 Chemical	 reactions	 involved	 in	energy	production	 in	mitochondria	 are	excellent 	
examples	 of	Redox.	Special	carrier	molecules	 transfer	oxidized	 hydrogen	 atoms	and	their	
removed	 electrons	 for	delivery	to	oxygen	so	that	it	becomes	 reduced.	 Hydrogen	 atoms	
are	derived	from	nutrients 	of	carbohydrates, 	lipids,	and	proteins. 	Two	hydrogen 	carriers	
are	nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide 	(NAD),	derived	from	the	B	vitamin	niacin,	and	
flavin adenine dinucleotide 	(FAD),	derived	from	another	 B	vitamin,	 riboflavin.	 Upon	
accepting	 hydrogen	 and	its	associated	 electron,	 NAD	and	FAD	are	reduced	 to	become	
NADH	and	FADH,	respectively. 	The	transport 	of	electrons 	by	specific	carrier	molecules	
constitutes	 the	respiratory chain ,	which	represents	 the	final	pathway	 of	aerobic	metabo-
lism.	For	each	pair	of	hydrogen	 atoms,	two	electrons	 flow	down	the	chain	and	ultimately 	
reduce	one	atom	of	oxygen.	This	pathway	 ends	when	oxygen	combines	 with	hydrogen	 to	
form	water.	Details	of	the	aerobic	pathway	are	discussed	later	in	this	chapter.
Biologically usable form of energy
In	a	living	cell,	ATP	is	the	most	important	 carrier	of	the	energy	necessary	 to	perform	
many	complex	 functions.	 This	energy-	containing	 compound	 stores	potential	 energy	
extracted	 from	food	and	can	yield	such	energy	to	power	various	biological	 activities	 via	
hydrolysis,	 a	process	in	which	a	compound	 is	split	into	other	compounds	 by	reacting	
with	water.	ATP	is	the	only	form	of	chemical	 energy	that	is	convertible	 into	other	forms	
of	energy	used	by	living	cells.	As	such,	ATP	is	often	regarded	 as	energy	currency.	 Fats	
and	carbohydrates	 are	the	main	storage	forms	of	energy	in	the	body.	However,	 energy	
derived	from	oxidation	 of	these	two	fuels	does	not	release	suddenly	 or	sufficiently	 fast	
enough	to	meet	the	energy	demand	 of	those	activities	 that	are	short	and	explosive.	 It	is	
well	known	that	energy	liberation	 from	food	is	a	relatively	 complex	 process	which	is	well	
controlled	 by	enzymes	 and	takes	place	within	the	watery	medium	 of	cells.	But	with	the	
production	 of	ATP,	this	slow	energy	transformation	 from	foods	is	not	a	concern.	 ATP	
may	be	viewed	as	a	temporary	 reservoir	 of	energy	which	functions	 to	provide	instant	
energy	to	the	cells	whenever	it	is	needed.

166  Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
	 The	structure 	of	ATP	consists	of	three	main	parts:	(1)	an	adenine	portion,	(2)	a	ribose	
portion,	 and	(3)	three	linked	phosphates	 (Figure 	8.1). 	The	formation	 of	ATP	occurs	by	
combining	 adenosine	 di-	phosphate	 (ADP)	with	inorganic	 phosphate	 (Pi)	and	requires	 a	
large	amount	of	energy.	Some	of	this	energy	is	stored	in	the	chemical	 bond	that	joins	ADP	
and	Pi.	During	hydrolysis,	 adenosine	 triphosphatase	 (ATPase)	 catalyzes	 the	reaction	 when	
ATP	joins	with	water.	In	the	degradation 	of	one	mole	of	ATP,	the	outermost 	phosphate	
bond	splits	and	liberates	approximately 	7.3	kcal	of	free	energy	that	is	available	for	work.	This	
then	results	in	a	production	 of	ADP	and	Pi.	In	some	cases,	additional	 energy	is	released	
when	another	phosphate 	splits	from	ADP	and	this	results	in	the	production 	of	adenosine	
mono-	phosphate	 (AMP).	The	energy	liberated	 during	ATP	breakdown	 transfers	 directly	to	
other	energy-	requiring 	molecules. 	In	muscle,	for	instance,	the	energy	is	used	to	energize	the	
myosin	cross-	bridge,	causing	the	muscle	fiber	to	shorten.	The	splitting	of	an	ATP	molecule	
takes	place	immediately	 and	does	not	need	oxygen.	The	body	can	store	a	very	limited	
amount	of	ATP.	Most	activities	 are	powered	 by	ATP	mainly	produced	 through	the	oxidation 	
of	carbohydrates 	and	fats.	One	example	where	the	body	relies	on	its	stored	ATP	is	those	
moments	 of	holding	one’s	breath	during	a	short	sprint	or	lifting.	Chemical	 processes	 in	
which	ATP	is	formed	from	other	energy	fuels	will	be	discussed	in	detail	later	in	this	chapter.
Energy consumption
The	energy	needed	to	fuel	the	body	comes	from	the	food	we	eat	as	well	as	the	energy	
already	stored	in	the	body.	Carbohydrates,	 fats,	and	proteins	are	the	three	energy-	containing 	
nutrients	 consumed	 regularly.	 Upon	entering	 the	body,	these	macronutrients	 undergo	 a	
series	of	hydrolytic	 reactions,	 including	 the	digestion	 of	starches	and	disaccharides	 to	mono-
saccharides,	 protein	to	amino	acids,	and	lipids	to	glycerol	and	fatty	acids.	These	simpler	
forms	of	macronutrients	 are	then	absorbed	 and	assimilated	 via	the	hepatic	portal	vein	which	
routes	blood	from	the	capillary	beds	of	the	gastrointestinal 	tract	into	the	liver.	While	some	
of	these	molecules 	are	used	to	meet	the	immediate 	energy	needs	of	the	body,	others	are	
stored	as	potential	 energy	in	more	complex	 forms,	such	as	glycogen	 in	muscle	and	liver	and	
triglycerides 	in	muscle	and	adipose	tissue.	The	amount	of	energy	taken	in	depends	on	the	
total	amount	of	food	consumed	and	the	nutrient	composition	of	the	food.
Measurement of energy content of foods
The	energy	content	 of	foods	can	be	measured	 by	using	a	bomb	calorimeter,	 which	
consists	 of	a	sealed	steel	chamber	 surrounded	 by	a	jacket	of	water	(Figure 	8.2).	
NH2
O OPPO
OH OHO
NNN
NAdenine
RiboseO
OH OHThree phosphates
O P
OHHOO
Figure 8.1 		An	adenosine	 tri-phosphate	 (ATP)	molecule.	 The	symbol	“~”	represents	
energy	stored	in	the	phosphate	bond

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		167
A	weighted	 amount	 of	food	(i.e.,	1	g)	is	placed	in	the	chamber	 with	high	oxygen	pres-
sure.	The	reaction	 is	started	through	 ignition	 by	an	electrical	 current.	 As	the	food	
combusts,	 heat	is	produced	 and	transferred	 through	 the	metal	wall	of	the	chamber, 	
and	heats	the	water	that	surrounds	 it.	The	increase	 in	water	temperature	 may	be	used	
to	calculate	 the	amount	 of	energy	in	the	food	on	the	basis	that	1	kcal	is	the	amount	 of	
heat	needed	to	increase	 the	temperature	 of	1	kilogram	 of	water	by	1˚C.	For	example, 	
if	the	water	volume	surrounding	 the	chamber	 was	5	L	and	the	temperature	 of	water	
rises	by	2˚C,	then	the	amount	 of	energy	contained	 in	the	food	was	5	×	2	=	10	kcal	
(or	10	×	4.186	=	41.86	kJ).	If	the	mass	of	food	combusted	 was	5	g,	then	energy	density	of	
the	food	was	10/5	 =	2	kcal/g.
	 This	method	determines	 quite	accurately	 the	total	energy	content	in	foods.	However,	
it	is	not	without	 its	drawbacks.	 This	technique	 is	expensive	 to	run	and	provides	 no	
information	 as	to	the	composition	 of	carbohydrates,	 fats,	and	proteins	 in	the	food	com-
busted.	Because	 the	body	cannot	completely	 digest,	absorb,	and	utilize	all	the	energy	in	
a	food,	caloric	values	from	this	technique	 are	often	slightly	higher	than	the	amount	of	
energy	the	body	can	actually	obtain	from	the	food.	This	pertains	 particularly	 to	proteins,	
because	 the	body	cannot	oxidize	the	nitrogen	 component	 of	amino	acids,	the	building	
blocks	of	a	protein.	 Consequently,	 nitrogen	 atoms	combine	 with	hydrogen	 to	form	urea	
to	be	excreted	 via	the	kidneys.	 Because	 energy	is	stored	in	the	hydrogen	 bond,	such	a	
loss	of	hydrogen	 results	in	a	reduction	 in	energy	of	an	amino	acid	that	is	available	 for	
use.	Quantitatively,	 the	energy	the	body	can	actually	obtain	from	1	g	of	protein	con-
sumed	is	about	4.6	kcal	on	average	rather	than	5.65	kcal	as	measured	 by	the	bomb	calori-
meter.	This	represents	 a	loss	of	approximately	 20	percent	of	the	potential	 energy	stored	
in	a	protein	molecule.	 As	both	carbohydrates	 and	fats	contain	no	nitrogen,	 the	amount	
of	fuel	the	body	acquires	 from	each	of	these	two	nutrients	 is	similar	to	what	is	deter-
mined	by	the	bomb	calorimeter.Thermometer
WaterElectr ical ignition
Oxygen inlet
Bomb
chamber
Food
sample
Figure 8.2 		A	bomb	calorimeter.	 When	dried	food	is	combusted	 inside	the	chamber	 of	a	
bomb	calorimeter,	 the	rise	in	temperature	 of	the	surrounding	 water	may	be	
used	to	determine	the	energy	content	of	the	food

168		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
Digestive efficiency
How	much	energy	stored	in	foods	can	become	 available	 to	the	body	is	also	affected	 by	
the	efficiency	 of	the	digestive	 process.	 Digestive efficiency ,	often	defined	as	the	coeffi-
cient	of	digestibility,	 represents	 the	percentage	 of	ingested	 food	digested	 and	absorbed	
to	serve	the	body’s	metabolic	 needs.	A	coefficient	 of	digestibility	 of	50	means	that	only	
half	of	the	energy	consumed	 was	ultimately	 absorbed.	 Since	this	digestive	 parameter	 pro-
vides	information	 as	to	how	much	energy	from	the	food	consumed	 can	actually	arrive	
inside	the	body,	it	has	become	a	major	guiding	factor	in	designing	 a	dietary	program	 for	
weight	loss	or	maintenance.	 The	coefficient	 of	digestibility	 is	relatively	 higher	in	both	
lipids	and	carbohydrates,	 reaching	 90	percent	and	higher.	However,	 those	carbohydrate	
products	 containing	 dietary	fiber	will	have	lower	digestibility.	 As	such,	consuming	 carbo-
hydrates	 rich	in	fiber	will	help	reduce	the	amount	 of	energy	available	 to	the	body.	
According	 to	early	data	published	 in	the	USDA	Handbook	 (Merrill	 and	Watt	1973),	for	
instance,	 the	coefficient	 of	digestibility	 of	wheat	bran	carbohydrate	 is	only	56	percent,	
suggesting	 that	the	body	will	obtain	only	a	little	over	half	of	the	energy	stored	in	this	
food.	Protein	has	a	greater	range	of	the	coefficient	 of	digestibility	 (i.e.,	80	to	97	percent).	
This	is	due	to	the	fact	that	a	protein	molecule	 may	vary	in	terms	of	its	constituent	 amino	
acids	or	its	food	source.	In	general,	 the	coefficient	 of	digestibility	 is	lower	in	plant	
protein	than	in	protein	from	animal	sources.
	Table	8.1 	shows	different	 coefficients	 of	digestibility,	 heats	of	combustion,	 and	net	
energy	values	for	nutrients	 in	various	food	groups.	As	shown,	the	average	coefficients	 of	
digestibility	 for	proteins,	 lipids,	and	carbohydrates	 are	92,	95,	and	97	percent,	 respec-
tively.	The	net	energy	values	are	identical	 to	the	product	of	the	coefficient	 of	digestibility	
Table 8.1		Digestibility,	 heat	of	combustion,	 and	net	physiological	 energy	values	of	dietary	
protein,	lipid,	and	carbohydrate
Food group Digestibility (%) Heat of combustion (kcal/g) Net energy (kcal/g)
Protein
Meat	and	fish 97 5.65 4.27
Eggs 97 5.75 4.37
Dairy	products 97 5.65 4.27
Cereals 85 5.80 3.87
Legumes 78 5.70 3.47
Vegetables 83 5.00 3.11
Fruits 85 5.20 3.36
Overall	average 92 5.65 4.05
Lipid
Meat	and	eggs 95 9.50 9.03
Dairy	products 95 9.25 8.79
Vegetables 90 9.30 8.37
Overall	average 95 9.40 8.93
Carbohydrate
Cereals 98 3.90 3.82
Legumes 97 4.20 4.07
Vegetables 95 4.20 3.99
Fruits 90 4.00 3.60
Sugars 98 3.95 3.87
Animal	food 98 3.90 3.80
Overall	average 97 4.15 4.03
Source:	adapted	from	Merrill	and	Watt	(1973).

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		169
and	heat	of	combustion	 for	lipids	and	carbohydrates.	 However,	 for	proteins	 the	net	
energy	value	is	much	lower	than	the	coefficient	 of	digestibility	 and	heat	of	combustion	
(i.e.,	4.05	vs.	5.20	kcal/g).	 This	difference	 is	explained	 by	our	earlier	discussion	 that	
some	of	the	energy	stored	in	amino	acids	is	lost	due	to	the	production	 of	urea	that	
incorporates	the	hydrogen	bond.
Atwater general factors
Conveniently,	 the	average	net	energy	values	may	be	rounded	 to	simple	whole	numbers	
often	referred	 to	as	Atwater	 general	 factors.	These	factors	are	illustrated	 as	follows:	
1	gram	of	carbohydrate	 =	4	kcal;	1	gram	of	lipid	=	9	kcal;	1	gram	of	protein	=	4	kcal.	These	
values	are	named	for	Wibur	Olin	Atwater	 (1844–1907),	 an	American	 chemist.	 They	
provide	a	viable	and	fairly	accurate	 means	of	estimating	 the	net	energy	consumption.	
They	may	be	used	to	determine	 the	caloric	content	of	any	portion	of	food	or	an	entire	
meal	from	the	food’s	composition	 and	weight.	As	a	result	of	the	application	 of	the	
Atwater	general	factors,	virtually	 all	food	items	on	the	market	are	currently	 labeled	with	
an	overall	and	nutrient-	 specific	energy	content.	 Table 	8.2 	illustrates	 how	these	factors	
are	used	for	calculating	the	caloric	values	of	chocolate-	 chip	ice	cream.
Bodily energy stores
Energy	is	stored	in	the	body	primarily	 as	fat	in	the	form	of	triglycerides,	 though	a	much	
smaller	amount	is	also	stored	as	glycogen	 in	the	muscle	and	liver.	The	body	must	have	a	
steady	supply	of	energy,	and	some	of	it	comes	from	glucose,	 the	simplest	 form	of	carbo-
hydrate.	 As	we	eat,	energy	is	supplied	 by	the	diet.	Between	 meals,	the	breakdown	 of	
stored	glycogen	 and	fat	helps	in	meeting	 energy	needs.	If	no	food	is	eaten	for	more	than	
several	hours,	the	body	must	shift	the	way	it	uses	energy	to	ensure	that	glucose	continues	
to	be	available.	 This	is	accomplished	 by	increasing	 the	use	of	stored	fat	and	by	mobil-
izing	liver	glycogen.	 The	maintenance	 of	blood	glucose	is	of	particular	 importance	 to	
the	survival	and	functioning	 of	the	central	nervous	system.	As	shown	in	Table 	8.3, 	glyco-
gen	stores	are	limited,	and	for	an	80-kg	person	the	body	contains	 approximately	 500	g	of	
glycogen,	 which	in	theory	could	be	depleted	 within	several	hours	of	strenuous	 exercise.	
Where	glycogen	 stores	decrease	 significantly,	 there	will	be	an	increase	 in	protein	
degradation	 that	produces	 amino	acids.	Some	amino	acids	are	converted	 into	glucose,	
while	others	are	directly	metabolized	 for	energy.	Protein	is	not	stored	as	an	energy	fuel	
in	the	body.	It	serves	as	a	structural	 component	 of	muscle	tissue	as	well	as	many	other	
organs.	As	such,	a	breakdown	 of	protein	for	producing	 glucose	and	hence	energy	may	
result	in	the	loss	of	muscle	and	other	lean	tissues.
Table 8.2		Method	 for	calculating	 the	caloric	value	of	a	food	from	its	composition	 of	macro-
nutrients
Ice cream (100 g or 3.5 oz) Composition (%) Weight (g) Atwater Factors Calories (kcal)
Protein  3  3 4 	12
Lipid 18 18 9 162
Carbohydrate 23 23 4 	92
Water 56 56 0 	0
Notes
Total	calories:	266.
%	kcal	from	lipids:	162/299	 =	61%.
Calories	=	weight	(g)	 ×	Atwater	factors	(Kcal/g).

170		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
	 Of	the	three	energy-	containing	 nutrients,	 the	fat	molecule	 carries	the	largest	quant-
ities	of	energy	per	unit	weight.	This	occurs	because	 of	the	greater	quantity	 of	hydrogen	
in	the	lipid	molecule.	 In	a	well-	nourished	 individual	 at	rest,	catabolism	 of	lipids	provides	
more	than	50	percent	of	total	energy	requirements	 (Vander	 et al.	2001).	Although	 most	
cells	store	small	amounts	 of	fat	in	their	cytosol,	most	of	the	body’s	fat	is	stored	in	special-
ized	cells	known	as	adipocytes,	 which	function	 to	synthesize	 and	store	triglycerides	
during	periods	of	food	intake.	As	shown	in	Table	8.3,	the	potential	 energy	stored	in	fat	
molecules	 for	an	80-kg	individual	 equals	110,700	kcal.	Given	an	energy	expenditure	 of	
100	kcal	per	mile,	this	amount	of	energy	can	fuel	an	individual	 to	run	over	1100	miles.	
This	contrasts	 sharply	with	the	limited	2000	kcal	of	stored	carbohydrate,	 which	could	
only	fuel	a	20-mile	run.	During	prolonged	 energy	restriction,	 substantial	 amounts	 of	fat	
are	used	to	provide	 energy.	However,	 when	the	supply	of	glucose	is	limited	such	as	
during	starvation	 or	under	the	diabetic	 state,	fatty	acids	cannot	be	completely	 oxidized,	
and	chemical	 ketones	 are	produced.	 Ketones	 are	the	by-	products	 produced	 mainly	in	
the	mitochondrial	 matrix	of	liver	cells	when	carbohydrates	 are	so	scarce	that	energy	
must	be	obtained	 from	breaking	 down	fatty	acids.	Ketones	 may	be	used	as	an	energy	
source	by	many	tissues.	In	sustained	 starvation,	 even	the	brain	adapts	to	meet	some	of	its	
energy	needs	from	utilizing	ketones	(Powers	and	Howley	2001).
Energy transformation
Energy	transformation	 is	the	essence	 of	life.	It	occurs	in	both	living	and	non-	living	
systems.	 As	mentioned	 earlier,	the	energy	transformation	 from	one	form	to	another	
follows	the	law	of	the	conservation	 of	energy.	This	law	states	that	energy	is	neither	
created	nor	destroyed,	 but	instead	transforms	 from	one	state	to	another	 without	being	
used	up.	For	example,	 in	photosynthesis,	 solar	energy	is	harnessed	 by	plants,	which	take	
carbon,	 hydrogen,	 oxygen,	 and	nitrogen	 from	their	environment	 and	manufacture	
carbohydrates,	 fats,	or	proteins.	 In	the	body,	energy	possessed	 by	macronutrients	 is	
changed	 into	chemical	 energy	via	cellular	respiration,	 and	is	then	stored	within	energy	
substrates	 or	converted	 into	mechanical	 and	heat	energy.	The	body	stores	energy	in	a	
variety	of	chemical	 compounds,	 including	 ATP,	 phosphocreatine 	(PCr),	glycogen,	 and	
trigly	cerides.	As	an	energy	currency,	 ATP	can	be	readily	used	to	meet	immediate	 energy	Table 8.3	Availability	of	energy	substrates	in	the	human	body
Substrates Weight (g) Energy (kcal)
Carbohydrate
Muscle	glycogen 400 1600
Liver	glycogen 100 400
Plasma	glucose 3 12
Total 503 2012
Lipids
Adipose	tissue 12,000 108,000
Intramuscular	triglycerides 300 2700
Plasma	triglycerides 4 36
Plasma	fatty	acids 0.4 3.6
Total 12,304 110,740
Source:	adapted	from	McArdle	 et al.	(2009);	Vander	 et al.	(2001).
Note
These	values	were	estimated	based	on	an	average	80-kg	man	with	15%	body	fat.	

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		171
needs.	However,	 this	high-energy 	compound	 is	stored	in	limited	quantity.	 In	fact,	the	
body	stores	only	80	to	100	g	of	ATP	at	any	one	time	(McArdle	 et al.	2005).	This	provides	
the	energy	that	can	only	sustain	maximal	 exercise	 for	several	seconds,	 such	as	a	60-yard	
sprint,	high	and	long	jump,	base	running,	 and	football	 play.	Consequently,	 in	most	
sporting	 events	and	daily	physical	 activities,	 ATP	is	always	replenished	 continuously	
through	 a	series	of	chemical	 reactions	 involving	 energy	transformation.	 Three	distinctive	
energy	systems	have	been	identified	 to	play	a	role	in	replenishing	 ATP.	They	are:	the	
ATP-	PCr	system,	the	glycolytic	system,	and	the	oxidative	system.
The ATP- PCr system (phosphagen system)
The	ATP-	PCr	system	is	also	known	as	the	phosphagen system 	because	both	ATP	and	PCr	
contain	phosphates.	 This	system	serves	as	the	immediate	 source	of	energy	for	regenerat -
ing	ATP.	This	system	is	composed	 of	three	components.	 First,	there	is	ATP	itself.	This	
high-	energy	compound,	 stored	in	the	muscles,	 rapidly	releases	energy	upon	the	arrival	
of	electrical	 impulse.	 ATP	is	degraded	 to	ADP	by	the	enzyme	ATPase.	 Because	 reaction	
involves	combination	 with	H2O,	the	splitting	of	ATP	is	often	regarded	 as	hydrolysis.	 This	
process	may	be	illustrated	as	follows:
	 ATPaseATP	 	ADP	+	Pi	+	Energy
	 The	second	player	of	this	system	is	PCr.	This	is	another	 high-	energy	compound	 that	
exists	in	five	to	six	times	greater	concentration	 in	muscle	than	does	ATP	(Brooks	 et al.	
2005).	Unlike	ATP,	energy	released	 by	the	breakdown	 of	PCr	is	not	used	directly	to	accom-
plish	cellular	work.	Instead,	PCr	provides	a	reserve	of	phosphate 	energy	used	to	regenerate	
ATP	as	a	result	of	muscle	contraction 	and	to	prevent	ATP	depletion. 	In	this	process,	ADP	is	
combined 	with	Pi	to	become	ATP	using	the	bonding	energy	stored	in	PCr.	This	reaction	is	
catalyzed	by	the	enzyme	creatine	kinase.	This	process	may	be	illustrated	as	follows:
	 Creatine	KinasePCr	+	ADP	 	ATP	+	Cr
	 The	third	component	 of	this	system	involves	 ADP	and	the	action	of	the	enzyme	
adenylate	 kinase	or	myokinase	 when	referring	 to	muscle.	This	enzyme’s	 function	 is	to	
catalyze	the	production	 of	one	ATP	(and	one	AMP)	from	two	ADPs.	This	process	may	be	
illustrated	as	follows:
	 Adenylate	KinaseADP	+	ADP	 	ATP	+	AMP
	 The	three	components	 of	this	immediate	 energy	system	and	the	respective	 kinase	
enzymes	 are	all	water	soluble.	As	such,	they	exist	throughout	 the	aqueous	 part	of	the	cell	
and	in	close	proximity	 to	the	contractile	 elements	 of	the	muscle	outside	of	the	mito-
chondria.	 They	can	be	immediately	 available	 to	support	muscle	contraction.	 With	some	
ATP	being	resynthesized	 from	PCr,	this	system	is	able	to	fuel	all-	out	exercises	 for	approx-
imately	5	to	10	seconds	such	as	a	100-m	sprint.	It	is	frequently	 observed	 that	during	the	
last	few	seconds	of	the	100-m	race,	runners	often	slow	down.	If	maximal	 effort	continues	
beyond	10	seconds,	 or	more	moderate	 exercise	 continues	 for	longer	periods,	 ATP	
replenishment	requires	energy	sources	in	addition	to	PCr.
The glycolytic system (glycolysis)
The	 glycolytic system 	uses	only	the	energy	stored	in	carbohydrate	 molecules	 such	as	
glucose	or	glycogen	 for	replenishing	 the	ATP	which	the	cell	needs.	This	system	is	also	

172		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
referred	 to	as	glycolysis ,	which	contains	 a	cascade	of	chemical	 reactions,	 each	of	which	is	
catalyzed	 and	regulated	 by	a	specific	enzyme.	 As	shown	in	Figure 	8.3, 	glycolysis	 produces	
pyruvic	acid.	The	production	 of	pyruvic	acid	occurs	regardless	 of	whether	 oxygen	is	
available.	 However,	 the	availability	 of	oxygen	determines	 the	fate	of	pyruvic	acid.	When	
oxygen	is	lacking,	pyruvic	acid	is	converted	 into	lactic	acid.	Glycolysis	 is	also	referred	 to	
as	the	Meyerhof	 pathway	 in	honor	of	Germen	 biochemist	 Otto	Fritz	Meyerhof	
(1884–1951)	 who	was	awarded	 the	Nobel	Prize	in	Medicine	 in	1922	for	his	discovery	 of	
such	a	pathway.	Glycolysis	may	be	summarized	as	follows:
Glucose	 	2	ATP	+	2	Lactate-	 +	2	H+
	 Glycolysis	 requires	 12	enzymatic	 reactions	 for	the	breakdown	 of	glycogen	 to	lactic	
acid	(1	for	glycogen	 to	become	glucose,	 10	for	glucose	to	become	pyruvic	acid,	and	1	for	
pyruvic	acid	to	become	 lactic	acid).	This	more	complex	 chemical	 pathway	 involved	
makes	this	system	relatively	 slower	in	generating	 ATP	as	compared	 to	the	ATP-	PCr	
system.	This	energy-	yielding	 pathway	 is	similar	to	the	ATP-	PCr	system	in	that	both	
systems	form	ATP	in	the	absence	of	oxygen	and	occurs	in	the	watery	medium	 of	the	cell	
outside	the	mitochondria.
	 This	oxygen-	independent	 system	works	predominantly	 within	skeletal	muscle	tissue.	
This	is	especially	 the	case	in	muscles	 consisting	 primarily	 of	fast-	twitch	(i.e.,	Type	IIb)	
muscle	fibers.	This	type	of	muscle	fiber	contains	 a	considerable	 amount	 of	glycolytic	
enzymes.	 In	muscle,	glycogen	 is	usually	first	broken	down	into	glucose	molecules	 via	a	
process	called	 glycogenolysis .	These	individual	 glucose	molecules	 are	then	able	to	enter	
the	glycolytic	 pathway.	 This	pathway	 also	allows	the	entry	of	glucose	derived	from	liver	
glycogenolysis	 and	transported	 via	circulation.	 At	the	onset	of	glycolysis,	 ATP	is	used	for	
glucose	to	be	converted	 to	glucose-	6-phosphate,	 a	compound	 necessary	 for	this	pathway	
to	proceed.	 This	is	then	followed	 by	another	 energy-	requiring	 reaction	 in	which	Fruc-
tose	6-phosphate	 is	converted	 into	Fructose	 1,6-diphosphate.	 During	the	later	reactions	
of	glycolysis,	 the	energy	released	 from	the	glucose	intermediates	 stimulates	 the	direct	
transfer	of	a	phosphate	 bond	to	ADP.	This	results	in	the	production	 of	up	to	four	ATPs.	
Because	 two	ATPs	are	lost	in	the	initial	steps	of	phosphorylation 	which	uses	ATP,	for	
each	glucose	molecule	 entering	 the	pathway	 this	system	generates	 a	net	gain	of	two	
ATPs.	The	process	by	which	energy	transfers	 from	energy	substrate	 to	ADP	via	the	phos-
phate	bond	that	does	not	require	oxygen	is	called	substrate-	 level	phosphorylation.
	 This	system	is	relatively	 inefficient	 in	terms	of	how	much	of	the	energy	stored	in	a	
glucose	molecule 	can	result	in	ATP	resynthesis. 	In	fact,	the	amount	of	ATP	produced 	from	
anaerobic	 glycolysis	 is	only	5	percent	of	what	a	glucose	molecule	 is	capable	of	generating. 	
In	addition,	 this	pathway	 is	associated	 with	the	production	 of	lactic	acids,	which	may	be	
involved	 in	the	onset	of	fatigue.	This	by-	product	 of	glycolysis	 can	release	hydrogen	 ions	
that	increase	acidity	within	the	muscle	cell,	thereby	disturbing	 the	normal	internal	environ-
ment	necessary	 for	maintaining	 muscle	contraction	 as	well	as	other	physiological	 functions. 	
This	system,	however,	 has	the	advantage	 of	replenishing	 ATP	rapidly.	With	this	system,	
most	cells	are	able	to	withstand	 very	short	periods	of	low	oxygen	by	using	anaerobic 	
glycolysis.	 Consequently,	 this	energy	system	plays	a	major	role	in	fueling	sporting	 events	in	
which	energy	production	 is	near	maximal	 for	30	to	120	seconds,	 such	as	a	400-	and	
800-meter 	run.	There	are	special	cases	in	which	glycolysis 	supplies	most,	and	in	some	cases	
all	the	ATP	that	a	cell	needs	for	surviving	 and	functioning.	 For	example,	 red	blood	cells	
contain	the	enzymes	 for	glycolysis	 but	have	no	mitochondria;	 all	their	ATP	production 	
occurs	by	glycolysis.	 In	addition,	 as	mentioned	 earlier,	fast-	twitch	muscle	fibers	contain	
considerable 	amounts	of	glycolytic 	enzymes, 	but	have	few	mitochondria. 	During	intense	
exercise,	these	muscle	fibers	rely	mainly	on	ATP	derived	from	glycolysis.

*OXFRVH *O\FRJHQ
*OXFRVH
SKRVSKDWH$73
$'3
$73
$'3
$73$'3
$73$'3
$73$'3
$73$'31$'
1$'++1$'
1$'++*OXFRVHSKRVSKDWH
)UXFWRVHSKRVSKDWH
)UXFWRVHGLSKRVSKDWH
'LK\GUR[\DFHWRQHSKRVSKDWH
SKRVSKRJO\FHUDOGHK\GH
GLSKRVSKRJO\FHUDWH
SKRVSKRJO\FHUDWH
7RHOHFWURQ
WUDQVSRUW
FKDLQ7RHOHFWURQ
WUDQVSRUW
FKDLQ
+2 +2SKRVSKRJO\FHUDWH
SKRVSKRHQROS\UXYDWH
/DFWDWHDFLG S\UXYLFDFLG /DFWLFDFLG








Figure 8.3 	Glycolytic	pathway	in	which	glucose	or	glycogen	is	degraded	into	pyruvic	acid
Source:	Wilmore	 et al.	(2008).	Used	with	permission.

174		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
The oxidative pathway
Most	of	the	energy	used	daily	comes	from	the	oxidation	 of	carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and,	in	
rare	cases,	proteins	 consumed	 in	the	diet.	Such	aerobic	production	 of	energy	occurs	
within	mitochondria	 which	are	called	“the	powerhouses	 of	the	cell.”	Mitochondria	 are	
found	scattered	 through	 the	cytoplasm.	 As	shown	in	Figure	8.4,	mitochondria	 are	oval-	
shaped	bodies	surrounded	 by	two	membranes	 and	their	internal	 space	or	matrix	con-
tains	numerous	 enzymes	 that	are	capable	of	catalyzing	 oxidative	 energy	transformation.	
As	mentioned	 earlier,	the	glycolytic	 system	captures	 only	a	very	small	portion	of	the	
energy	stored	in	a	glucose	molecule.	 However,	 the	oxidative	 system	makes	it	possible	 for	
the	remaining	 energy	to	be	extracted	 from	the	glucose	molecule.	 This	is	accomplished	
by	converting	 pyruvate	 into	 acetyl- CoA	rather	than	lactic	acid,	which	is	possible	 when	
oxygen	is	sufficient.	 Acetyl	CoA	can	then	enter	the	citric	acid	cycle,	also	known	as	the	
Krebs	cycle.
	 The	oxidative	 pathway	 involves	three	stages	(Figure 	8.5). 	Stage	1	is	the	generation	 of	
a	key	two-	carbon	molecule	 acetyl	CoA.	Note	that	acetyl	CoA	can	be	formed	from	the	
breakdown	 of	carbohydrates,	 fats,	or	proteins.	 Stage	2	is	the	oxidation	 of	acetyl-	CoA	in	
the	Krebs	cycle.	In	this	process	acetyl	CoA	combines	 with	oxaloacetate	 to	form	citrate.	
What	follow	are	a	series	of	reactions	 to	regenerate	 oxaloacetate	 and	two	molecules	 of	
CO2,	and	the	pathway	 begins	again.	The	primary	function	 of	the	Krebs	cycle	is	to	remove	
hydrogens	 and	associated	 energy	from	various	intermediates	 involved	 in	the	cycle	using	
nicotinamide	 adenine	 dinucleotide	 (NAD)	and	flavin	adenine	 dinucleotide	 (FAD)	as	
hydrogen	 carriers.	 As	a	result,	NADH	and	FADH	are	formed.	 The	importance	 of	hydro-
gen	removal	 is	that	hydrogen	 atoms	by	virtue	of	the	electrons	 they	possess	contain	the	
potential	 energy	stored	in	the	food	molecules.	 Both	NADH	and	FADH	then	proceed	
through	 a	series	of	oxidative	 reactions	 collectively	 called	the	electronic	 transport	 chain,	
stage	3	of	the	oxidative	 pathway.	 In	this	process,	energy	stored	in	these	molecules	 is	used	
to	combine	 ADP	and	Pi	to	form	ATP.	Oxygen	does	not	participate	 in	the	reactions	 of	
the	Krebs	cycle,	but	is	the	final	hydrogen	 acceptor	 at	the	end	of	the	electron	 transport	
chain	that	produces	 water.	Because	 ATP	is	formed	via	the	use	of	oxygen	within	mito-
chondria,	 this	energy-	yielding	 process	is	also	termed	 oxidative phosphorylation .	Using	
glucose	as	an	example,	this	system	may	be	summarized	as	follows:
C6H12O6	+	O2 	32	ATP	+	6CO2	+	6H2O
	 The	oxidative	 system	confers	energy	using	oxygen,	 which	differs	from	the	ATP-	PCr	
and	anaerobic	 glycolysis	 systems.	Due	to	its	potential	 of	extracting	 energy	from	all	three	
Cristae Inner membrane
Outer membrane
Matrix
Figure 8.4 	Structure	of	a	mitochondrion

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		175
macronutrients,	 this	system	produces	 most	of	the	energy	throughout	 the	day.	The	opera-
tion	of	both	the	Krebs	cycle	and	the	electron	 transport	 chain	takes	place	in	mitochon -
dria.	As	such,	the	ability	to	generate	 energy	aerobically	 depends	 in	part	on	the	size	and	
content	of	mitochondria.	 Other	factors	such	as	myoglobin	 content	and	capillary	 density	
can	also	modulate	 the	effectiveness	 of	this	system.	This	energy	system	is	used	primarily	
in	sports-	emphasizing	 endurance	 such	as	distance	 running	 ranging	from	5	kilometers	 to	
the	marathon	and	beyond.3URWHLQEUHDNGRZQ *O\FRO\VLV%UHDNGRZQRIWULJO\FHULGHV
OLSRO\VLV
&\WRSODVP
0LWRFKRQGULDOPHPEUDQH
,QVLGHRIPLWRFKRQGULD
)DWW\DFLGV $PLQRDFLGV
2[DORDFHWDWH &LWUDWH
,VRFLWUDWH 0DODWH6WDJH 6WDJH 6WDJH
)XPDUDWH.5(%6
&<&/(
6XFFLQDWH
(OHFWURQ
WUDQVSRUW
FKDLQ6XFFLQ\O&R$
5HGXFHGHOHFWURQ
FDUULHUV
1$'+)$'+
+2
+2
$73$'3�.HWRJOXWDUDWH3\UXYDWH
$FHW\O&R$&2
&2
&2&21+H²H²
H²
H²
H²H²
H²
Figure 8.5 	The	three	stages	of	the	oxidative	pathway	of	ATP	production
Source:	adapted	from	Mathews	 et al.	(2000).

176		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
Chemiosmotic hypothesis and uncoupling proteins
The	mechanism	 as	to	how	the	oxidation	 of	NADH	and	FADH	is	coupled	 to	the	phos-
phorylation	 of	ADP	may	be	further	explained	 by	the	chemiosmotic hypothesis 	postu-
lated	by	Peter	Mitchell	 in	1961.	He	proposed	 that	electron	 transport	 and	ATP	synthesis	
are	coupled	 by	a	proton	gradient	 across	the	inner	mitochondrial	 membrane	 (Stryer	
1988).	In	his	model,	the	energy	released	 as	electrons	 is	transferred	 along	the	respiratory	
chain	leads	to	the	pumping	 of	protons	H+	from	the	matrix	to	the	other	side	of	the	inner	
mitochondrial	 membrane.	 As	a	result,	there	is	a	higher	concentration	 of	H+	within	the	
intermembrane	 space	compared	 to	that	in	the	matrix.	This	then	generates	 an	electrical	
potential	 which	serves	as	a	source	of	energy	to	be	captured.	 Mitchell	 proposed	 that	it	is	
this	proton-	motive	force	that	drives	the	synthesis	 of	ATP.	Mitchell’s	 hypothesis	 that	oxi-
dation	and	phosphorylation	 are	coupled	 by	a	proton	gradient	 has	been	validated	 by	a	
wealth	of	evidence.	 In	1978,	he	was	awarded	 the	Nobel	Prize	in	Chemistry	 due	to	his	
extraordinary	 contribution	 to	our	understanding	 of	the	fundamental	 mechanisms	 of	
bioenergetics.
	 According	 to	the	chemiosmotic	 theory	as	discussed	 above,	cellular	energy	production 	
takes	place	across	the	inner	mitochondrial	 membrane.	 In	this	process,	adenosine	 diphos-
phate	(ADP)	is	phosphorylated	 to	adenosine	 triphosphate	 (ATP)	using	energy	associated 	
with	a	gradient	 of	protons	that	is	generated	 during	electron	 transport.	 If	protons	leak	back	
into	the	matrix	that	abolishes	 the	proton	concentration	 gradient	 across	the	inner	mitochon -
drial	membrane,	 heat	is	produced	 instead	of	useful	energy.	This	disruption	 of	the	connec-
tion	between	 food	breakdown	 and	energy	production	 is	known	as	“uncoupling.”	 It	was	long	
thought	that	energy	metabolism 	was	fully	coupled	to	ATP	production, 	which	may	then	be	
stored	or	used	in	support	of	various	cellular	functions.	 However,	 with	the	discovery	 of	
uncoupling proteins 	(UCPs),	it	is	now	known	that	this	notion	is	untrue.	The	proton	gradient	
can	be	diminished	 by	the	action	of	UCP	resulting	 in	proton	leak.	In	fact,	in	living	cells	a	
significant	 proportion	 of	mitochondrial	 respiration	 is	normally	 not	coupled	to	the	phospho-
rylation	of	ADP	and	energy	that	fails	to	be	coupled	to	ATP	synthesis	is	dissipated	as	heat. 	
	 UCPs	 play	important	 roles	in	regulating	 energy	balance.	 They	can	also	decrease	 the	pro-
duction	of	reactive	oxygen	species	(ROS)	by	mitochondria,	 which	has	been	associated	 with	
the	pathogenesis 	of	obesity	and/or	type	2	diabetes.	Energy	expenditure 	in	humans	may	be	
subdivided	 into:	(1)	basal	energy	expenditure	 or	resting	metabolic	 rate	(RMR);	(2)	energy	
expenditure 	caused	by	physical	activity;	and	(3)	energy	expenditure 	attributed 	to	diet-	
induced	 thermogenesis.	 Uncoupling	 (proton	 leak)	of	mitochondria	 respiration	 to	ATP	
synthesis	 constitutes	 a	significant	 part	of	the	RMR.	UPC	or	proton	leak	has	a	marked	influ-
ence	on	total	energy	expenditure	 and,	in	rats,	accounts	 for	approximately	 20	to	30	percent	
of	RMR	(Rolfe	and	Brand	1996).	It	has	also	been	estimated	 that	in	human,	at	least	20	
percent	of	total	energy	expenditure 	is	due	to	proton	leaks,	with	the	skeletal	muscle	as	the	
main	contributor	 (Lowell	and	Spiegelman	 2000).	Simply	put,	the	more	active	the	UPCs,	
the	more	the	proton	leak,	and	thus	the	greater	the	energy	expenditure.	 To	date,	increas-
ing	energy	expenditure 	by	increasing 	proton	leak	in	mitochondria 	has	been	recognized 	as	
an	effective	way	to	achieve	weight	loss.
Oxidation of lipids and proteins
Unlike	the	glycolytic	 pathway,	 which	only	applies	to	carbohydrates,	 the	aerobic	pathway	
allows	oxidation	 of	not	only	carbohydrates	 but	also	lipids	and	proteins,	 as	shown	in	
Figure	8.5. 	Lipids	that	normally	 participate	 in	energy	metabolism	 are	triglycerides.	 Via	
lipolysis,	triglycerides	 are	hydrolyzed	 into	fatty	acids	and	glycerol	 (Figure 	8.6). 	This	
reaction	 is	catalyzed	 by	enzyme	lipase.	Fatty	acids	can	then	undergo	 a	series	of	reactions	

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		177
to	form	acetyl-	CoA.	Although	 in	the	liver	glycerol	can	be	converted	 into	an	intermediate	
of	glycolysis,	 which	later	becomes	 pyruvate	 and	then	acetyl-	CoA,	this	does	not	occur	to	a	
great	extent	in	skeletal	muscle.	 Therefore,	 glycerol	 is	not	an	important	 muscle	fuel	
source	during	exercise	 (Gollnick	 1985,	Holloszy	 and	Coyle	1984).	Fat	oxidation	 is	a	
relatively	 slow	process	due	to	the	complexity	 of	its	metabolism.	 Nevertheless,	 it	has	the	
ability	to	yield	a	large	amount	 of	energy.	For	example,	 oxidation	 of	the	fatty	acid	
Palmitate,	 which	contains	 18	carbons,	 can	liberate	129	ATP,	nearly	four	times	higher	
than	the	amount	of	ATP	produced	from	oxidation	of	a	glucose	molecule.
	 Protein	 is	not	considered	 a	major	energy	source,	since	it	contributes	 less	than	15	
percent	 of	the	energy	produced	 during	exercise	 (Dolny	and	Lemon	1988,	Gollnick	
1985,	Lemon	and	Mullin	1980).	However,	 it	can	be	crucial	in	maintaining	 energy	con-
tinuity	and	glucose	homeostasis	 under	special	circumstances	 such	as	starvation	 or	pro-
longed	strenuous	 exercise	 where	bodily	carbohydrate	 decreases	 significantly.	 Protein	can	
enter	bioenergetic	 pathways	 in	many	different	 places,	but	first	needs	to	be	cleaved	into	HH
H
HC
CCO
H O
CHCH2CH2CH2CH2CH3
CH2CH2CH2CH2CH33H3O
H HOCH2CH2CH2CH2CH3O
C
O
C
O
C O
HH
C
CCO
H O
C HCH2CH2CH2CH2CH3
CH2CH2CH2CH2CH3
CH2CH2CH2CH2CH3O
C
O
C
O
C ONeutral f at, or tr ilycer ide3 water
molecules
Lipase+
H HO+
H HO
Glycerol 3 fatty acid chains
Figure 8.6 		The	schematic	 of	reaction	 that	a	triglyceride	 molecule	 is	hydrolyzed	 to	free	
fatty	acids	and	glycerol

178		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
amino	acids.	What	happens	 next	depends	 on	which	amino	acids	are	involved.	 For	
example,	 some	amino	acids	can	be	converted	 into	glucose	or	pyruvate,	 some	into	acetyl-	
CoA,	and	still	others	to	Krebs	cycle	intermediates.	 Before	an	amino	acid	can	be	used,	the	
nitrogen	 residue	must	be	removed.	 This	is	accomplished	 by	switching	 the	nitrogen	 to	
some	other	compound,	 a	process	known	as	transamination,	 or	by	removing	 nitrogen	
through	 oxidation,	 a	process	known	as	deamination.	 The	energetic	 roles	of	carbohy-
drates,	fats,	and	proteins	during	exercise	are	discussed	in	 Chapter	9.
Energy transformation in sports and physical activity
ATP-	PCr,	glycolysis,	 and	aerobic	pathways	 are	the	three	energy	systems	equipped	 by	each	
individual.	 There	are	two	inherent	 limits	of	the	energetic	 processes:	 the	maximal	 rate	
(power)	 and	the	amount	 of	ATP	that	can	be	produced	 (capacity)	 (Sahlin	 et al.	1998).	
The	power	and	the	capacity	 vary	drastically	 among	the	three	energy	systems,	 with	both	
the	ATP-	PCr	and	glycolysis	 systems	having	a	greater	power	but	a	lower	capacity	 than	the	
aerobic	system.	Brooks	 et al.	(2005)	have	attempted	 to	classify	athletic	activities	 into	one	
of	the	three	groups:	power,	speed,	and	endurance.	 Such	a	classification	 has	an	advantage	
of	allowing	 us	to	identify	a	predominant	 energy	system	for	many	different	 athletic	activ-
ities.	This	will	then	lead	to	a	proper	design	of	training	 aimed	to	enhance	 the	perform-
ance	of	such	energy	system.	According	 to	this	classification,	 intra-	muscular	 high-	energy	
phosphate	 compounds	 ATP	and	PCr	supply	most	of	the	energy	for	power	events	such	as	
short-	distance	 sprinting	 and	weight	lifting.	For	rapid,	forceful	exercises	 that	last	about	a	
minute	or	so,	muscle	depends	 mainly	on	glycolytic	 energy	sources.	 Intense	exercise	 of	
longer	duration	 (i.e.,	>2	minutes)	 such	as	middle-	distance	 running	 and	swimming	
requires	 a	greater	demand	 for	aerobic	 energy	transfer.	 Table	8.4	illustrates 	energy	
sources	of	muscular	work	for	various	types	of	athletic	activities.
	 It	should	be	noted	that	activities	 listed	in	Table	8.4	are 	primarily	 track	and	swimming	
events	in	which	exercise	 lasts	continuously	 for	a	given	time	period.	The	fact	that	these	
individual	 events	differ	only	in	duration	 has	enabled	 us	to	estimate	 energy	expenditure	
and	fuel	utilization	 using	laboratory	 instrumentations.	 It	is	difficult	 to	draw	a	general	
Table 8.4	Energy	source	of	muscular	work	for	different	types	of	sporting	events
Power Speed Endurance
Event Shot	put
Discus
Weight-lifting
High	jump
40	yard	dash
Vertical	jump
100	m	sprint200–800	m	run
100–200	m	swim1500	m	run
10	km	run
400–800	m	swim
Cross-country
Road	cycling
Marathon
Duration	of	event 0–10	seconds 10	seconds–2	minutes >2	minutes
Major	sources	of	energy ATPPCrATPPCr
Muscle	glycogenMuscle	glycogen
Liver	glycogen
lipids
Energy	system	involved ATP-PCr Glycolysis Aerobic	pathway
Rate	of	process Very	rapid Rapid Slower
Oxygen	required No No Yes
Source:	adapted	from	Brooks	 et al.	(2005).

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		179
conclusion	 on	energy	metabolism	 in	team	sports	such	as	soccer,	field	hockey,	 and	
lacrosse.	 This	is	because	energy	and	fuel	requirements	 for	performing	 these	stop-	and-go	
sports	may	vary	depending	 on	field	position	 and	duration	 of	each	burst	of	exercise.	
Using	soccer	as	an	example,	 it	is	likely	that	those	who	play	midfield	 positions	 run	longer	
and	therefore	 derive	proportionally	 more	of	their	total	energy	from	aerobic	sources.	
Conversely,	 those	who	play	forward	positions	 often	sprint	and	thus	use	a	majority	 of	the	
total	energy	coming	from	the	ATP-	 PCr	system.
	 The	three	energy	systems	may	also	be	classified	 according	 to	whether	 the	operation	
of	the	system	requires	 a	proper	supply	of	oxygen.	In	this	context,	 both	the	ATP-	PCr	and	
glycolysis	 systems	are	regarded	 as	anaerobic	 in	that	they	operate	outside	of	mitochondria	
and	energy	transferring	 does	not	require	oxygen.	 On	the	other	hand,	the	oxidative	
system	utilizes	oxygen	as	the	electron	 acceptor	 so	that	energy	transfer	can	proceed.	 Most	
sporting	 events	or	physical	activities	 are	often	categorized	 as	to	whether	 they	are	anaero-
bic	or	aerobic.	 This	classification	 has	made	it	easier	to	convey	to	the	public	whether	 the	
activity	is	tolerable.	 Generally,	 activities	 that	demand	 primarily	 aerobic	sources	of	energy	
are	less	intense	but	more	enduring	 such	as	walking,	 jogging,	 cycling,	and	swimming.	
Conversely,	 activities	 that	require	anaerobic	 sources	of	energy	are	generally	 intense,	fast	
moving,	 and	more	explosive	 such	as	sprinting	 and	jumping.	 They	can	also	be	resistance	
exercises	in	which	muscle	tension	increases	significantly	once	contracted.
	 How	 the	three	energy	systems	respond	 during	exercise	 of	changing	 intensity	 is	a	
complex	 issue.	This	is	because	as	exercise	intensity	 increases,	 a	transition	 from	one	energy	
system	to	another	will	occur.	It	must	be	kept	in	mind	that	for	most	activities	 energy	needed	
is	not	provided	 by	simply	turning	on	a	single	energetic	 pathway,	 but	rather	a	mixture	of	
several	energy	systems	operating	 in	a	sequential	 fashion	but	with	considerable	 overlap.	
Such	a	mixed	use	of	energy	systems	may	be	particularly	 manifested	 during	(1)	rest-	to-
exercise	 transition,	 and	(2)	during	incremental	 exercise	 in	which	intensity	 rises	progres-
sively.	In	the	transition	 from	rest	to	light	or	moderate	 exercise,	 oxygen	consumption 	
increases	 progressively	 to	reach	a	steady	state	within	one	to	four	minutes.	 The	fact	that	
oxygen	consumption	 does	not	increase	 instantly	 to	the	desirable	 level	suggests	that	energy	
systems	other	than	oxidative 	pathways 	contribute 	to	the	overall	production 	of	ATP	at	the	
beginning 	of	exercise.	There	is	evidence	to	suggest	that	at	the	onset	of	exercise	the	ATP-	
PCr	system	is	the	first	bioenergetic	 pathway	 being	activated,	 followed	 by	glycolysis,	 and	
finally	aerobic	energy	production.	 However,	 once	a	steady	state	is	reached,	 the	body’s	ATP	
requirement	can	be	met	primarily	via	aerobic	metabolism.
Control of energy transformation
It	must	be	kept	in	mind	that	the	increased	 rate	of	energy	metabolism	 does	not	always	
occur	and	happens	 only	if	there	is	an	increase	 in	energy	demand.	 In	this	context,	 ques-
tions	remain	as	to	how	such	demand-	 driven	energy	metabolism	 comes	about	and	how	
the	body	modulates	 the	rate	of	energy	metabolism.	 Muscular	 exercise	 may	be	considered	
a	dramatic	 test	of	the	body’s	homeostatic	 control	systems.	 This	is	because	 exercise	 has	
the	potential	 to	disturb	many	homeostatic	 variables.	 For	example,	 heavy	exercise	 results	
in	high	increases	 in	muscle	oxygen	(O2)	requirements,	 and	large	amounts	 of	carbon	
dioxide	(CO2)	being	produced.	 These	changes	 must	be	corrected	 by	increases	 in	breath-
ing	and	blood	flow	to	increase	 (O2)	delivery	to	the	exercising	 muscle	and	remove	meta-
bolically	 produced	 CO2,	which	will	otherwise	 increase	 the	body’s	acidity.	In	addition,	 as	
heavy	exercise	 begins,	there	is	an	immediate	 increase	 in	the	use	of	ATP.	As	a	result,	ATP	
storage	decreases.	 The	body’s	energy	systems	must	respond	 rapidly	to	replenish	 ATP	
from	substrates	 such	as	PCr	and	carbohydrates	 so	that	a	continuous	 energy	supply	and	
thus	energy	homeostasis	can	be	maintained.

180		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
Homeostasis and steady state
French	physiologist	 Claude	Bernard	 was	the	first	to	recognize	 the	central	importance	 of	
maintaining	 a	stable	internal	environment	 in	1857.	This	concept	was	further	elaborated	 and	
supported	 in	1932	by	the	American	 physiologist	 Walter	Cannon,	 who	emphasized	 that	such	
stability	could	be	achieved	 only	through	the	operation	 of	a	carefully	 coordinated	 physiologi -
cal	process.	The	activities	 of	cells,	tissues,	and	organs	must	be	regulated	 and	integrated	 with	
each	other	in	such	a	way	that	any	change	in	the	internal	environment	 initiates	a	reaction	to	
minimize	 the	change.	As	such,	Cannon	described	 the	term	 homeostasis 	as	the	maintenance	
of	a	constant	or	unchanging 	internal	environment. 	It	must	be	noted	that	changes	in	the	
composition 	of	the	internal	environment 	do	occur,	but	the	magnitude 	of	these	changes	is	
small	and	kept	within	narrow	limits	via	multiple	coordinated	homeostatic	processes.
	 A	similar	term,	 steady state ,	is	often	used	by	exercise	scientists	 to	denote	a	steady	physio-
logical	environment.	 Although	 the	terms	steady	state	and	homeostasis	 are	often	used	inter-
changeably	 and	both	result	from	compensatory	 regulatory	 responses,	 homeostasis	 generally 	
refers	to	a	relatively	 constant	 environment	 during	un-	stressful	 conditions	 such	as	rest,	
whereas	a	steady	state	does	not	necessarily	 mean	that	the	internal	environment	 is	completely 	
normal,	but	simply	that	it	is	unchanging	 (Vander	 et al.	2001).	In	other	words,	a	steady	state	
only	reflects	a	stability	of	the	internal	environment 	that	is	achieved	by	balancing 	the	
demands 	placed	on	the	body	and	the	body’s	responses 	to	those	demands. 	An	example	
which	helps	in	distinguishing	 these	two	terms	is	the	case	of	oxygen	consumption	 during	
exercise.	 As	shown	in	Figure 	8.7, 	upon	the	commencement	 of	moderate	 intensity	 exercise,	
oxygen	uptake	reaches	a	plateau	within	a	few	minutes.	This	plateau	of	oxygen	uptake	
represents	 a	steady-	state	metabolic	 rate	specific	to	the	exercise.	 However,	 this	constant	
oxygen	uptake	occurs	at	the	rate	that	is	greater	than	the	resting	level	of	metabolism,	 and	
thus	does	not	reflect	a	true	homeostatic	condition.
	 The	fact	that	the	internal	 environment,	 such	as	body	temperature,	 blood	pressure, 	
plasma	glucose	or	acidity,	is	always	maintained 	relatively	constantly 	in	most	circumstances	
suggests	that	the	body	operates	 many	control	systems	that	work	to	maintain	 homeostasis	 on	
a	regular	 basis.	Indeed,	every	 one	of	the	fundamental	processes	 performed	by	 any	single	cell 	
must	be	carefully	regulated. 	What	determines 	how	much	glucose	enters	a	cell?	Once	inside	
the	cell,	what	determines 	how	much	of	this	glucose	is	used	for	energy	and	how	much	is	
stored	as	glycogen?	 To	answer	these	questions,	 it	is	important	 for	us	to	understand	 not	only	
the	metabolic	processes,	but	also	the	mechanisms	which	control	them.
Oxygen
deficitOxygen uptake (l/min)Steady state
Rest2.0
1.5
0.5
Exercise time (min)
Figure 8.7 		The	time	course	of	oxygen	uptake	(VO2)	in	the	transition	 from	rest	to	sub-
maximal	exercise

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		181
The control system and its operation
The	body	has	hundreds	 of	different	 control	systems	that	regulate	 certain	physiological	
variables	 at	or	near	a	constant	 value.	A	control	system	within	the	organism	 may	be	
defined	as	a	series	of	interconnected	 components	 that	maintain	 physiological	 and	chem-
ical	parameters	 of	the	body	at	near	constant	 value.	The	general	components	 of	the	
system	are	(1)	receptors,	 (2)	afferent	 pathways,	 (3)	integrating	 centers,	 (4)	efferent	
pathways,	 and	(5)	effectors.	 Figure 	8.8 	represents	 the	schematic	 of	such	a	control	system.	
A	receptor	 is	capable	of	detecting	 the	unwanted	 change	or	disturbance	 in	the	environ-
ment	and	sends	the	message	 to	the	integrating	 center	that	assesses	the	strength	 of	the	
stimulus	 and	the	amount	 of	response	 needed	to	correct	the	disturbance.	 The	pathway	
traveled	 by	the	signal	between	 the	receptor	 and	the	integrating	 center	is	known	as	the	
afferent	 pathway.	 The	integrating	 center	then	sends	an	appropriate	 output	message	 to	
an	effector,	 which	is	responsible	 for	correcting	 the	disturbance	 and	causes	the	stimulus	
to	be	removed.	 The	pathway	 along	which	this	output	message	 travels	is	known	as	the	
efferent	pathway.
	 Most	control	systems	of	the	body	operate	via	negative feedback .	Negative	 feedback	 is	
defined	as	the	working	 process	in	which	a	change	in	the	variable	being	regulated	 brings	
about	responses	 that	tend	to	push	the	variable	in	the	direction	 opposite	 to	the	original	
change.	An	example	 of	negative	 feedback	 may	be	seen	in	the	respiratory	 control	of	CO2 
concentration	 in	the	extracellular	 fluid.	In	this	case,	an	increase	in	extracellular	 CO2	above	
the	normal	level	triggers	a	chemical	 receptor,	 which	sends	information	 to	the	respiratory 	
control	center	in	the	brainstem	 to	increase	breathing.	 Effectors	 in	this	example	 are	respira-
tory	muscles	and	an	increase	 in	their	contraction	 will	reduce	extracellular	 CO2	concentra -
tion	back	to	normal,	thereby	re-	establishing	 homeostasis.	 There	is,	however,	 another	type	
of	feedback	 known	as	positive	feedback	 in	which	an	initial	disturbance	 in	a	system	sets	off	a	
series	of	events	that	increases	 the	disturbance	 event	further.	Apparently,	 the	positive	feed-
back	does	not	favor	the	maintenance	of	the	internal	environment.
	 Traditionally,	 the	concept	 of	the	control	system	was	restricted	 to	situations	 in	which	
the	first	four	of	the	components	 are	all	parts	of	the	nervous	system.	However,	 currently,	
this	term	is	no	longer	so	narrowly	 focused	 and	recognizes	 that	the	principles	 are	
Integration center
Afferent pathw ay
Steady state
Stimulus (–)
FeedbackResponseSteady stateEfferent pathw ay
Figure 8.8 	Schematic	illustration	of	a	biological	control	system

182		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
essentially	 the	same	when	blood-	borne	messengers	 such	as	hormones,	 rather	than	nerve	
fiber,	serve	as	the	afferent	 or,	much	more	commonly,	 the	efferent	 pathway,	 when	an	
endocrine	 gland	serves	as	the	integrating	 center.	For	example,	 in	the	case	of	thermoreg -
ulation	when	the	body	temperature	 drops,	the	integrating	 centers	in	the	brain	not	only	
send	signals	by	way	of	nerve	fibers	to	muscles	to	trigger	contraction,	 but	also	cause	the	
release	of	hormones	 that	travel	by	the	blood	to	many	target	cells	producing	 an	increase	
in	thermogenesis.	 Although	 hormones	 play	an	integral	role	in	maintaining	 homeostasis,	
a	control	system	that	involves	hormones	 could	lack	a	receptor	 and	an	afferent	 pathway.	
For	example,	 the	release	of	parathyroid	 hormone	 is	triggered	 by	a	fall	in	plasma	calcium	
concentration.	 This	hormone	 then	functions	 to	increase	 a	release	of	calcium	from	bone	
into	the	blood.	Likewise,	 the	release	of	insulin	is	caused	by	a	rise	in	plasma	glucose	con-
centration.	 This	hormone	 then	functions	 to	increase	 cellular	glucose	uptake	from	the	
blood.	In	both	examples,	 the	objective	 of	the	control	system	involved	 is	to	maintain	 a	
normal	plasma	concentration	 of	calcium	 or	glucose.	 However,	 neither	control	process	
involves	a	receptor	 or	an	afferent	pathway.	 This	is	because	glandular	 cells	themselves	 are	
sensitive	 to	the	change	in	chemical	 concentration	 of	the	blood	supply	to	them	(Vander	
et al.	2001).
Neural and hormonal control systems
In	light	of	the	previous	 discussion,	 it	is	clear	that	both	the	nervous	 and	endocrine	
systems	are	involved	 in	the	control	and	regulation	 of	various	functions	 in	order	to	main-
tain	homeostasis.	 Both	are	structured	 to	be	able	to	sense	information,	 organize	 an	
appropriate	 response,	 and	deliver	the	message	 to	the	proper	organ	or	tissue.	The	two	
systems	often	work	together	 to	maintain	 homeostasis.	 However,	 they	differ	in	that	in	
order	to	deliver	the	output	message	 the	endocrine	 system	relies	on	hormonal	 release,	
whereas	the	nervous	system	uses	 neurotransmitters ,	which	are	referred	 to	as	endogenous	
chemicals	that	transmit	signals	from	a	neuron	to	a	target	cell	across	a	synapse.
	 With	 regard	to	the	nervous	 control,	 the	autonomic	 nervous	 system	is	the	efferent	
branch	of	the	nervous	 system	and	is	most	directly	related	to	the	regulation	 of	the	
internal	 environment	 (Brooks	 et al.	2005).	The	autonomic	 nerves	innervate	 glands,	
blood	vessels,	cardiac	muscle,	and	smooth	muscle	found	in	the	respiratory	 and	gastroin-
testinal	systems.	 As	such,	the	system	operates	 below	the	conscious	 level.	The	autonomic	
nervous	 system	may	be	further	divided	into	 sympathetic 	and	 parasympathetic 	divisions.	
The	parasympathetic	 division	controls	 resting	functions	 and	has	effects	such	as	slowing	
the	heart	rate	and	stimulating	 digestion.	 It	comprises	 neurons	 that	release	 acetylcholine  
(ACh).	On	the	other	hand,	the	sympathetic	 division	 controls	 fight-	or-flight	 responses.	
Unlike	the	parasympathetic	 division,	 this	division	comprises	 two	types	of	neurons.	 The	
first	neuron	 releases	 ACh,	but	the	second	neuron	 that	directly	 innervates	 the	cell	
releases	 norepinephrine .	These	neurotransmitters	 bind	to	the	receptors	 in	the	cell	mem-
branes	of	target	tissues,	altering	 the	membrane	 permeability	 to	certain	ions.	For	
example,	 in	the	heart,	ACh	promotes	 the	entry	of	Cl–1	to	deter	the	occurrence	 of	action	
potential,	 whereas	 norepinephrine	 stimulates	 entries	of	Na+	and	Ca++	to	facilitate	 the	
production	 of	action	potential.	 Consequently,	 ACh	slows	heart	rate,	whereas	 norepin-
ephrine	speeds	up	heart	rate.
	 The	endocrine	 glands	release	hormones	 directly	into	the	blood,	which	carries	the	
hormone	 to	a	tissue	to	exert	an	effect.	The	hormone	 exerts	its	effect	by	binding	to	a	spe-
cific	protein	receptor.	 In	doing	so,	the	hormone	 can	circulate	 to	all	tissues,	but	will	only	
affect	the	tissues	that	have	the	specific	receptor.	 As	mentioned	 earlier,	hormonal	 secre-
tion	from	the	endocrine	 glands	is	regulated	 by	feedback	 mechanisms.	 That	is	to	say	that	
a	hormone	 is	released	 in	response	 to	a	change	in	the	internal	 environment.	 However,	

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		183
the	secretion	 of	the	hormone	 will	diminish	 and	eventually	 stop	if	a	particular	 end	result	
of	the	hormonal	 action	is	achieved.	 Of	the	many	endocrine	 glands,	both	the	pancreas	
and	adrenal	glands	are	perhaps	most	relevant	to	exercise	metabolism.
	 The	pancreatic	 hormones	 are	proteins	 secreted	 by	the	islets	of	Langerhans,	 clusters	
of	endocrine	 cells	in	the	pancreas.	 Islets	of	Langerhans	 contain	several	distinct	types	of	
cells	of	which	both	α	and	β	cells	have	been	thoroughly	 investigated.	 The	β	cells	secrete	
insulin	which	stimulates	 glucose	and	amino	acid	uptake	by	many	cells	of	which	muscle	
and	adipose	tissue	are	quantitatively	 the	most	important.	 This	will	then	be	followed	 by	
increased	 synthesis	 of	glycogen	 and	protein	in	muscle	and	triglycerides	 in	adipose	tissue	
(Table	8.5). 	High	levels	of	circulating	 insulin	also	inhibit	hepatic	glucose	output	and	
thus	promote	 glycogen	 as	well	as	triglyceride	 synthesis	 in	the	liver.	The	α	cells	of	the	
pancreas	 secrete	glucagon.	 While	insulin	promotes	 removal	 of	glucose	from	the	blood	if	
it	is	too	high,	glucagon	 functions	 to	raise	blood	glucose	level	if	it	is	too	low.	Unlike	
insulin,	glucagon	 exerts	its	effect	primarily	 on	the	liver.	It	enhances	 both	glycogenolysis	
and	gluconeogenesis,	 the	two	processes	 that	generate	 free	glucose	 (Table 	8.5). 	An	
increase	 in	gluconeogenesis	 is	achieved	 via	glucagon’s	 role	of	stimulating	 hepatic	amino	
acid	uptake.	Both	insulin	and	glucagon	 function	 together	 to	help	maintain	 a	relatively	
stable	blood	glucose	concentration.
	 The	adrenal	gland	contains	 two	sections:	 the	adrenal	medulla	 and	the	adrenal	cortex.	
The	adrenal	medulla	 releases	both	epinephrine	 and	norepinephrine,	 which	are	collec-
tively	called	catecholamines.	 These	two	hormones	 are	not	only	involved	 in	activating 	
energy	metabolism	 in	order	to	meet	the	demand	 of	exercise,	 but	also	in	maintaining	 blood	
glucose	concentration	 (Table 	8.5). 	They	are	also	important	 in	regulating	 cardiovascular 	
and	respiratory	 responses	 in	an	effort	to	facilitate	 energy	homeostasis.	 The	adrenal	medulla	
is	innervated	 by	the	sympathetic	 nervous	system.	As	such,	sympathetic	 activity	stimulates 	
the	secretion	 of	these	hormones	 from	the	adrenal	medulla.	 The	adrenal	cortex,	the	outer	
part	of	the	adrenal	gland,	produces	 cortisol,	aldosterone,	 and	sex	hormones,	 of	which	only	
cortisol	is	directly	related	to	energy	metabolism.	 Cortisol	contributes	 to	the	maintenance	 of	
plasma	glucose	by	stimulating	 lipolysis	in	adipose	tissue	and	gluconeogenesis	 in	the	liver	
(Table	8.5). 	Unlike	catecholamines	 whose	release	is	controlled	 by	sympathetic	 nerves,	cor-
tisol	secretion	 is	subject	to	the	action	of	the	stimulating	 hormones	 secreted	 by	the	hypo-
thalamus	and	is	regulated	by	a	negative	feedback	mechanism.
	 In	order	to	produce	their	action,	catecholamines 	interact	with	two	receptors, 	referred	as	
α	and	β	receptors, 	located	on	the	cell	membrane 	surface.	Norepinephrine 	mainly	affects	
the	α	receptors,	 whereas	epinephrine	 affects	both	α	and	β	receptors.	 The	β	receptors	 may	
be	further	subdivided	 into	β1	and	β2	receptors.	 In	general,	 the	β1	receptors 	influence	
cardiac	function,	 while	β2	is	related	to	tissue	metabolism. 	The	actions	of	these	receptors	
are	listed	in	Table 	8.6. 	Both	α	and	β	receptors	 are	also	called	adrenergic	 in	that	they	can	be	
activated	 by	epinephrine	 and	norepinephrine.	 These	receptors	 once	bound	to	either	
hormone	 will	cause	changes	in	cellular	activity	by	increasing	 or	decreasing	 the	cyclic	AMP	
or	Ca2+,	which	are	often	referred	 to	as	second messengers .	Second	messengers	 are	intracel-
lular	molecules	 or	ions	that	are	regulated	 by	extracellular	 signaling	 agents	such	as	neuro-
transmitters	 and	hormones	 (first	messengers).	 The	second	messenger	 then	activates	
another	 set	of	enzymes	 called	protein	kinases,	which	trigger	various	cellular	events	in	
response	 to	the	original	stimulus.	 Unlike	catecholamines	 which	comprise	 peptides,	 cortisol	
is	a	lipid	hormone	 and	can	diffuse	easily	through	 the	cell	membrane	 and	become	bound	
to	a	protein	receptor	in	the	cytoplasm 	of	the	cell.	The	hormone- 	receptor	complex	enters	
the	nucleus	and	binds	to	a	specific	protein	linked	to	DNA.	This	then	leads	to	the	synthesis	
of	proteins	 necessary	 to	alter	the	metabolism.	 This	process	does	not	involve	the	production 	
of	second	messengers.	 It	takes	longer	for	the	action	of	cortisol	to	be	turned	on,	but	its	
effect	will	last	longer	as	compared	to	catecholamines.

Table 8.5	Selected	hormones	and	their	catabolic	role	in	maintaining	energy	homeostasis
Endocrine gland Hormone Catabolic action Controlling mechanism Stimuli
Anterior	pituitary	
glandGrowth	hormone •	Mobilization	of	FFA
•	Gluconeogenesis•		Hypothalamic	GH-releasing	
hormone•	Exercise	stress
•	Low	plasma	glucose
Pancreatic	 ß	cellsInsulin •		Uptake	of	glucose,	amino	acids,	and	
FFA	into	tissue•	Plasma	glucose	concentration
•	Autonomic	nervous	system•	Elevated	plasma	glucose
•		Decreased	epinephrine	and	
norepinephrine
Pancreatic	 α-cells Glucagon •	Mobilization	of	FFA	and	glucose
•	Gluconeogenesis•	Plasma	glucose	concentration
•	Autonomic	nervous	system•	Low	plasma	glucose
•		Elevated	epinephrine	and	
norepinephrine
Adrenal	cortex Cortisol •		Mobilization	of	FFA	gluconeogenesis •		Hypothalamic	adrenal	cortex	
stimulating	hormone•	Exercise	stress
•	Low	plasma	glucose
Adrenal	medulla Epinephrine
nor-epinephrine•	Glycogenolysis	mobilization	of	FFA •	Autonomic	nervous	system •	Exercise	stress
•	Low	plasma	glucose

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		185
Summary
•	 Energy	 is	defined	as	the	ability	to	perform	 work.	It	is	neither	created	nor	destroyed,	
but	instead	transforms	 from	one	state	to	another	 without	being	used	up.	The	two	
major	interchangeable	 forms	of	energy	as	related	to	human	movement	 are	kinetic	
and	potential	energy.
•	 ATP	 serves	as	the	body’s	energy	currency,	 although	 its	quantity	 is	very	limited.	The	
free	energy	yielded	from	splitting	 of	the	phosphate	 bond	of	ATP	powers	all	forms	of	
biological	 work.	In	most	activities,	 ATP	is	generated	 instantly	 from	the	degradation	
of	carbohydrates	and	fats.
•	 Carbohydrates,	 fats,	and	proteins	 represent	 the	three	energy-	containing	 nutrients	
consumed	 daily.	As	compared	 to	fat,	carbohydrate	 stored	as	glycogen	 is	relatively	
limited.	However,	 it	is	a	preferable	 source	of	energy.	Protein	contains	 energy,	but	
contributes	 little	to	energy	metabolism.	 Carbohydrate	 and	protein	each	provide	
about	4	kcal	of	energy	per	gram,	compared	with	about	9	 kcal/gram	for	fat.
•	 The	 potential	 energy	stored	in	nutrients	 is	captured	 through	 three	energy	yielding	
systems:	 (1)	the	ATP-	PCr	system,	(2)	the	glycolytic	 system,	and	(3)	the	oxidative	
system.	The	operation	 of	these	systems	is	of	essence	to	the	continual	 supply	of	ATP	
in	support	of	various	biological	functions.
•	 The	 three	energy	systems	differ	considerably	 in	terms	of	rate	and	capacity	 of	pro-
ducing	ATP,	and	their	contribution	 will	vary	depending	 on	the	intensity	 and	dura-
tion	of	an	activity.	 However,	 such	differences	 among	the	three	energy	systems	
provide	the	ability	for	the	body	to	be	able	to	derive	energy	under	various	circum-
stances	whether	 generating	 explosive	 power,	enduring	 a	long-	distance	 event,	or	
simply	performing	 a	household	 activity.	The	oxidative	 system	involves	a	breakdown	
of	fuels	with	the	use	of	oxygen.	Compared	 with	the	ATP-	PCr	and	glycolytic	 systems,	
operation	 of	the	oxidative	 system	is	slowest	in	generating	 ATP.	However,	 it	is	most	
capable	of	extracting	 energy	stored	in	energy-	containing	 nutrients.	 The	oxidative	
system	also	represents	 a	“common”	 pathway	 shared	by	carbohydrates,	 fats,	and	pro-
teins	for	being	used	as	an	energy	source.
•	 UCPs	 play	important	 roles	in	regulating	 energy	balance.	 They	function	 to	disrupt	or	
uncouple	 food	breakdown	 and	ATP	production,	 thereby	increasing	 fuel	utilization	
and	energy	expenditure.	 Activities	 of	UCPs	account	 for	approximately	 20	to	30	
percent	of	resting	metabolic	 rate.	The	more	active	the	UPCs,	the	greater	the	energy	
expenditure.
•	 For	 most	activities,	 energy	needed	is	not	provided	 by	simply	turning	on	a	single	
energetic	 pathway,	 but	rather	by	a	mixture	 of	several	energy	systems	operating	Table 8.6	Interaction	of	epinephrine	and	norepinephrine	with	adrenergic	receptors
Receptor type Intracellular mediator Effect
α Cyclic	AMP	and	Ca++•	Vasoconstriction
•	Gastrointestinal	relaxation
ß1 Cyclic	AMP •	Increased	heart	rate
•	Increased	cardiac	contraction
•	Increased	lipolysis
•	Increased	glycogenolysis
ß2 Cyclic	AMP •	Vasodilation
•	Bronchodilation
Source:	adapted	from	Tepperman	and	Tepperman	(1987).

186		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
currently.	 However,	 the	percentage	 of	contribution	 of	each	system	differs	depend-
ing	on	the	intensity	and	duration	of	the	activity.
•	 The	 term	homeostasis	 is	defined	as	the	maintenance	 of	a	constant	 internal	 environ-
ment.	It	differs	from	the	term	steady	state	in	that	the	latter	represents	 a	constant	
internal	environment	achieved	under	stressful	conditions	such	as	exercise.
•	 The	 maintenance	 of	a	constant	 internal	environment	 is	achieved	 by	many	biological	
control	systems	that	operate	mainly	in	a	negative	 feedback	 manner	and	are	capable	
of	detecting,	 processing,	 and	making	 appropriate	 adjustments	 to	correct	the	
changes.
•	 Both	 the	nervous	 and	endocrine	 systems	often	work	together	 as	part	of	a	control	
system.	They	are	structured	 so	as	to	be	able	to	sense	information,	 organize	 an	appro-
priate	response,	 and	deliver	the	message	 via	neurotransmitters	 or	hormones	 to	the	
proper	organ	or	tissue	in	order	to	exert	their	actions.
•	 Hormones	 involved	 in	energy	metabolism	 exert	their	effect	by	first	combining	 with	
protein	receptors	 and	then	activating	 enzymes	 necessary	 to	catalyze	intended	 chem-
ical	reactions.	 Specifically,	 for	those	peptide	 hormones	 such	as	catecholamines,	
binding	 with	receptors	 takes	place	on	the	cell	membrane,	 which	triggers	the	pro-
duction	 of	a	second	messenger	 needed	to	carry	out	hormonal	 actions	within	the	
cell.	This	process	differs	from	lipid-	like	hormones	 such	as	cortisol,	 which	always	dif-
fuses	across	cell	membrane	 and	binds	to	a	receptor	 within	the	cell	before	exerting	
its	action.
Case study: do energy drinks really provide a source of energy?
Rhonda	 had	just	landed	the	job	of	her	dreams	as	a	writer	for	Runners’ World	 maga-
zine.	Since	high	school,	where	she	had	excelled	 in	cross-	country	events,	Rhonda	 had	
been	a	consistent	 runner.	 Her	first	assignment	 was	to	write	a	report	on	the	efficacy	
of	an	energy	drink	called	XS	Citrus	Blast®.	It	was	required	 that	to	write	this	report	
she	had	to	be	very	accurate	 in	her	analysis.	 Rhonda	 knew	that	XS	Citrus	Blast®	had	
been	used	by	athletes	to	provide	some	“fuel”	as	they	practiced 	and	competed. 	She	
also	saw	other	people	using	it	more	casually	as	a	way	to	become	“energized.”	
However,	 she	was	confused	 about	the	labeling	 of	the	drink.	For	example,	 XS	Citrus	
Blast®	boasted	that	it	contained 	no	calories	but	still	provided 	energy.	That	made	no	
sense	based	on	what	Rhonda	knew	about	biological 	energy!	Rhonda	decided	to	find	
out	more	details	about	this	drink	before	she	began	to	write.	The	following 	facts	are	
what	she	discovered:
•	 Ingredients:	 carbonated	 water,	taurine,	 glutamine,	 citric	acid,	adaptogen	 blend,	
natural	flavors,	acesulfame	 potassium,	 caffeine,	 sodium	benzoate,	 potassium	 sorbate,	
sucralose,	niacin,	pantothenic	acid,	pyridoxine	HCL,	yellow	5,	cyanocobalamin.
•	 Nutrition	 facts:	serving	size:	8.4	fl	oz;	servings	 per	container:	 1;	calories:	 8;	fat:	0	g;	
sodium:	 24	mg;	potassium:	 25	mg;	total	carbs:	0	g;	sugars:	0	g;	protein:	 2	g;	vitamin	
B3:	100%;	vitamin	B6:	300%;	vitamin	B5:	100%;	vitamin	B12:	4900%.
Questions
•	 What	is	a	biological	definition	of	energy?
•	 When	we	say	that	something	gives	us	“energy,”	what	does	that	mean?
•	 Why	is	the	XS	Citrus	Blast®	that	contains	 only	8	calories	considered	 an	“energy	
booster”?
•	 What	ingredients	and	nutrients	provide	energy?	How	do	they	do	that?

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		187
Review questions
	1	 Define	the	term	energy.	What	is	the	law	of	the	conservation	of	energy?
	2	 Define	 the	terms	(1)	bioenergetics,	 (2)	mitochondria,	 (3)	catabolism,	 and	(4)	
anabolism.
	3	 Define	 kinetic	and	potential	 energy.	Provide	examples	 that	illustrate	 the	transforma -
tion	between	these	two	forms	of	energy.
	4	 What	does	the	“coefficient	 of	digestibility”	 mean?	Why	does	protein	have	the	lowest	
coefficient	of	digestibility?
	5	 How	much	glycogen	 does	an	80-kg	person	possess?	 How	is	glycogen	 distributed	
between	the	muscle	and	the	liver?
	6	 What	is	a	bomb	calorimeter	and	how	does	it	work?
	7	 What	are	Atwater	general	factors?
	8	 What	is	the	total	energy	stored	in	food	containing	 50	g	of	carbohydrate,	 15	g	of	fat,	
and	8	g	of	protein?
	9	 Compare	 the	three	energy	systems	(e.g.,	phosphagen	 system,	glycolytic	 system,	and	
oxidative	 system)	in	terms	of	complexity,	 cellular	location,	 end	products,	 oxygen	
requirements,	and	rate	and	capacity	of	ATP	production.
10	 Name	 some	sport	events	and	physical	 activities	 that	are	mainly	supported	 by	each	of	
the	three	energy	systems.
11	 Define	 the	terms	(1)	glycerol,	 (2)	pyruvate,	 (3)	acetyl	CoA,	(4)	NADH,	 and	
(5)	FADH.
12	 Creatine	 monohydrate,	 sodium	bicarbonate,	 phosphate,	 vitamins	 B2	and	B3,	and	
Co-	Q10	are	the	supplements	 discussed	 in	the	context	of	bioenergetics.	 Please	match	
each	of	these	supplements	 with	a	specific	energy	system	and	explain	specifically	 how	
each	works.
13	 State	the	chemiosmotic	hypothesis	and	discuss	its	potential	application.
14	 Define	the	term	homeostasis.	How	does	it	differ	from	the	term	steady	state?
15	 What	 are	the	components	 of	a	biological	 control	system?	List	an	example	 that	illus-
trates	the	operation	of	a	control	system.
16	Describe	 how	each	of	the	following	 hormones	 affect	carbohydrate,	 fat,	and	protein	
utilization	 during	exercise:	 (1)	growth	 hormone,	 (2)	insulin,	 (3)	glucagon, 	
(4)	cortisol,	(5)	epinephrine,	and	(6)	norepinephrine.
Suggested reading
	1	 Burke	 LM	(2001)	Energy	needs	of	athletes.	 Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology ,	
26(Suppl):	S202–S219.
 This article provides practical advice about how athletes should use their energy budget to choose 
foods that provide macronutrient and micronutrient needs for optimal health and performance.
	2	 Fitts	RH	(1996)	Muscle	fatigue:	 the	cellular	 aspects.	 American Journal of Sports 
Medicine,	24(6	Suppl):	S9–S13.
 This article addresses exercise- induced cellular changes that may lead to muscle fatigue and how 
diet and fluid replacement may help counteract such changes and thus prevent or delay fatigue.
	3	 Gastin	 PB	(2001)	Energy	system	interaction	 and	relative	 contribution	 during	
maximal	exercise.	 Sports Medicine ,	31:	725–741.
 The author provides a more contemporary overview of how the three distinctive energy systems 
operate during exercise. Some of the misconceptions with regard to how these energy systems are 
affected by exercise intensity and duration are also discussed.

188		 Energy-yielding metabolic pathways
Glossary
Acetylcholine 	neurotransmitters	 released	 by	neurons	 of	parasympathetic	 division	of	the	
autonomic	nervous	system.
Acetyl- CoA	a	molecule	 that	functions	 to	convey	the	carbon	atoms	to	the	Krebs	cycle	to	
be	oxidized	for	energy	production.
Adenosine triphosphate 	high-	energy	compound	 used	for	a	variety	of	biological	 work,	
including	muscle	contraction,	synthesizing	molecules,	and	transporting	substances.
Bioenergetics 	a	field	of	biochemistry	 that	concerns	 chemical	 pathways	 responsible	 for	
converting	energy-	 containing	nutrients	into	a	biologically	usable	form	of	energy.
Biosynthesis 	a	process	in	which	energy	in	one	substance	 is	transferred	 into	other	sub-
stances	so	that	their	potential	energy	increases.
Catabolism 	a	process	 in	which	more	complex	 substances	 are	broken	 down	into	
simpler	ones.
Chemiosmotic hypothesis 	this	hypothesis	 states	that	electron	 transport	 and	ATP	syn-
thesis	are	coupled	by	a	proton	gradient	across	the	inner	mitochondrial	membrane.
Digestive efficiency 	referred	 to	as	the	coefficient	 of	digestibility	 that	represents	 the	
percentage	 of	ingested	 food	digested	 and	absorbed	 to	serve	the	body’s	metabolic	
needs.
Energy	the	ability	to	produce	 change	and	measured	 by	the	amount	of	work	performed	
during	a	given	change.
First law of thermodynamics 	the	law	states	that	the	body	does	not	produce,	 consume,	
or	use	up	energy;	it	merely	transforms	energy	from	one	state	to	another.
Flavin adenine dinucleotide 	a	coenzyme	 found	in	all	living	cells	that	functions	 as	a	
hydrogen	carrier.
Glycogenolysis 	a	process	in	which	glycogen	is	broken	down	into	glucose	molecules.
Glycolysis 	the	same	as	the	“glycolytic	system.”
Glycolytic system 	also	referred	 to	as	glycoylsis	 which	uses	only	the	energy	stored	in	car-
bohydrate	molecules	for	regenerating	ATP.
Homeostasis 	the	maintenance	of	a	constant	or	unchanging	internal	environment.
Kinetic energy 	the	energy	possessed	by	an	object	due	to	its	motion.
Lipolysis 	a	process	in	which	triglycerides	are	broken	down	into	fatty	acids	and	glycerol.
Mechanical energy 	a	form	of	energy	possessed	 by	an	object	due	to	its	motion	or	its	
position	or	internal	structure.
Negative feedback 	the	working	 process	in	which	a	change	in	the	variable	being	regu-
lated	brings	about	responses	 which	tend	to	push	the	variable	 in	the	direction	
opposite	to	the	original	change.
Neurotransmitters 	endogenous	 chemicals	 that	transmit	 signals	from	a	neuron	to	a	
target	cell	across	a	synapse.
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide 	a	coenzyme	 found	in	all	living	cells	that	functions	
as	a	hydrogen	carrier.
Norepinephrine 	neurotransmitters	 released	 by	neurons	 of	sympathetic	 division	of	the	
autonomic	nervous	system.
Oxidation 	any	chemical	reaction	that	involves	a	loss	of	electrons.
Oxidative phosphorylation 	a	metabolic	 pathway	 that	uses	energy	released	 by	the	oxida-
tion	of	nutrients	to	produce	ATP.
Oxidizing agents 	the	substance	that	gains	electrons	as	it	reduces.
Parasympathetic 	a	branch	of	the	autonomic	 nervous	 system	that	slows	the	heart	rate	
and	stimulates	digestion.
Phosphagen system 	also	referred	 to	as	the	ATP-	PCr	system	which	serves	as	the	imme-
diate	source	of	energy	for	regenerating	ATP.

Energy-yielding metabolic pathways 		189
Phosphocreatine 	a	phosphorylated	 creatine	 molecule	 which	serves	as	a	rapidly	mobiliz-
able	reserve	of	high-	 energy	compounds.
Phosphorylation 	a	process	in	which	energy	transfers	 from	energy	substrate	 to	ADP	via	
phosphate.
Potential energy 	the	energy	possessed	 by	an	object	due	to	its	position	 or	internal	
structure.
Redox	a	process	in	which	oxidation	and	reduction	reactions	are	coupled.
Reducing agents 	the	substance	that	donates	or	loses	electrons	as	it	oxidizes.
Reduction 	any	chemical	reaction	that	involves	a	gain	in	electrons.
Respiratory chain 	the	transport	 of	electrons	 by	specific	carrier	molecules	 that	repres-
ents	the	final	pathway	of	aerobic	metabolism.
Second messengers 	intracellular	 molecules	 or	ions	that	are	regulated	 by	neurotrans -
mitters	or	hormones	and	function	to	activate	another	set	of	enzymes.
Steady state 	a	steady	physiological	 environment	 in	which	energy	demand	 is	met	by	
energy	supply.
Sympathetic 	a	branch	of	the	autonomic	 nervous	 system	that	promotes	 fight-	or-flight	
responses,	 including	 increases	 in	heart	rate	and	breathing	 rate	and	decreases	 in	
digestion.
Uncoupling proteins 	mitochondrial	 inner	membrane	 proteins	 which	function	 to	
disrupt	the	connection	between	food	breakdown	and	energy	production.

9 Nutrients metabolism
Contents
Key terms 190
Carbohydrate metabolism 191
•	 Carbohydrate:	a	limited	but	ideal	energy	source	during	exercise	 191
•	 Carbohydrate	utilization	at	onset	of	exercise	 192
•	 Influence	of	exercise	intensity	and	duration	 192
•	 Liver	sources	of	carbohydrate	 193
•	 Gluconeogenesis:	generating	glucose	in	the	liver	 194
•	 Regulation	of	muscle	and	liver	glycogen	degradation	 195
•	 Regulation	of	glycolysis	and	the	Krebs	cycle	 196
Lipid	metabolism	 197
•	 Energy	sources	from	lipids	 197
•	 Preparatory	stages	for	fat	utilization	 197
•	 Influence	of	intensity	and	duration	on	fat	utilization	 198
•	 Interaction	between	carbohydrate	and	fat	utilization	 199
•	 Regulation	of	lipolysis	and	fat	oxidation	 200
Protein	and	amino	acid	metabolism	 201
•	 Protein	metabolism	during	exercise	 202
•	 Protein	synthesis	 203
•	 Energy	metabolism	of	amino	acids	 204
•	 Metabolic	role	of	branched-	 chain	amino	acids	 206
•	 Regulation	of	protein	synthesis	and	degradation	 206
Summary	 207
Case	study	 208
Review	questions	 209
Suggested	readings	 210
Glossary	 210
Key terms
•	ß–oxidation	 •	 Amino	acid	pool
•	 Branched-	 chain	amino	acids	 •	 Carnitine
•	 Carnitine	palmitoyl	transferase	(CPT)	 •	 Delayed	onset	of	muscle	soreness	(DOMS)

Nutrients metabolism   191
•	 Endogenous	 •	 Epinephrine
•	 Fatmax	 •	 Gluconeogenesis
•	 Glycogen	phosphorylase	 •	 Hepatic	glucose	output
•	 Hyperglycemia	 •	 Hypoglycemia
•	 Insulin-	 like	growth	factors	 •	 Isocitrate	dehydrogenase
•	 Lactate	threshold	 •	 Lipase
•	 Malonyl	CoA	 •	 Nitrogen	balance
•	 Phosphofructokinase	 •	 Pyruvate	dehydrogenase
•	 Somatomedins	 •	 Transcription
•	 Translation
Carbohydrate metabolism
Exercise	 poses	a	serious	of	challenge	 to	the	bioenergetic	 pathways	 in	the	exercising	
muscle.	For	example,	 during	heavy	exercise,	 the	body’s	total	energy	output	may	increase	
15	to	20	times	above	that	of	the	resting	condition.	 Most	of	this	increase	 in	energy	pro-
duction	is	used	to	provide	ATP	for	contacting	 skeletal	muscles,	 which	may	increase	 their	
energy	utilization	 200	times	over	utilization	 at	rest.	Therefore,	 it	is	apparent	 that	skeletal	
muscles	 have	a	great	capacity	 to	produce	 and	use	large	quantities	 of	ATP	during	exer-
cise.	Such	a	large	increase	 in	ATP	production	 is	made	possible	 by	our	ability	to	extract	
the	energy	stored	in	carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins	 we	consume	 daily.	In	this	
context,	 a	strong	tie	exists	between	 nutrition	 and	sports	performance.	 Compared	 to	
lipids	and	proteins,	 carbohydrate	 remains	 the	preferential	 fuel	during	high-	intensity	
exercise	 because	 it	can	rapidly	supply	ATP	both	aerobically	 and	anaerobically.	 There-
fore,	emphasizing	 a	sufficient	 consumption	 of	carbohydrates	 daily	should	be	an	integral	
part	of	a	training	 regimen	 for	most	athletes.	 Lipids	represent	 another	 potential	 source	
of	energy.	However,	 their	catabolism	 normally	 results	in	a	lower	energy	turnover	 that	
cannot	quite	match	the	energy	demand	 imposed	 by	most	sporting	 events.	Given	that	
excess	lipids	can	have	a	negative	 impact	upon	one’s	health,	it	is	equally	important	 to	
understand	 the	unique	characteristics	 associated	 with	lipid	metabolism,	 so	that	an	
effective	lifestyle	strategy	may	be	developed	to	facilitate	fat	loss.
Carbohydrate: a limited but ideal energy source during exercise
Two	main	macronutrients	 provide	 energy	for	replenishing	 ATP	during	exercise:	 (1)	
muscle	and	liver	glycogen;	 (2)	triglycerides	 within	adipose	tissue	and	exercising	 muscle.	
To	a	much	less	degree,	protein	or	amino	acids	within	skeletal	muscle	can	donate	carbon	
skeletons	 thereby	furnishing	 energy.	During	prolonged	 exercise,	 carbohydrates	 such	as	
muscle	glycogen	 and	blood	glucose	derived	from	liver	glycogenolysis	 are	the	primary	
energy	substrates.	 Glycogen	 is	a	readily	mobilized	 storage	form	of	glucose.	 It	is	a	very	
large	branched	 polymer	 of	glucose	residues,	 as	mentioned	 in	Chapter 	2 	(Figure	2.4).	
Glycogen	 undergoes	 a	process	of	glycogenolysis	 that	yields	free	glucose	molecules.	 This	
glucose	can	then	enter	the	glycolytic	pathway	in	which	energy	is	transformed.
	 It	must	be	emphasized	 that	the	body	stores	a	limited	amount	of	carbohydrates.	 As	dis-
cussed	in	Chapter 	8, 	energy	stored	in	muscle	and	liver	glycogen	 is	only	about	2000	kcal	
which	is	only	2	percent	of	that	stored	in	triglycerides	 (i.e.,	110,000	kcal)	(Table	8.3).	In 	
addition,	 some	important	 organs	can,	under	normal	circumstances,	 only	use	carbohy-
drate	as	a	fuel	source	to	survive	and	function.	 The	brain	is	the	best	example.	 The	adult	
brain	requires	 about	100	g	glucose	per	day,	close	to	the	amount	 of	glycogen	 stored	in	
the	liver.	In	fact,	one	of	the	important	 roles	liver	glycogen	 plays	is	to	maintain	 an	ade-
quate	blood	glucose	concentration	 so	that	the	brain	can	function	 properly.	 Glycogen	

192		 Nutrients metabolism
stored	in	skeletal	muscles,	 on	the	other	hand,	serves	as	a	fuel	source	mainly	for	the	
muscles	themselves.
	 The	importance	 of	their	availability	 during	exercise	 is	demonstrated	 by	the	obser-
vation	that	fatigue	is	often	associated	 with	muscle	glycogen	 depletion	 and/or	hypo-
glycemia.	 With	respect	to	energy	provision,	 carbohydrates	 are	superior	 to	fat	in	that	
(1)	they	may	be	used	for	energy	with	and	without	oxygen;	(2)	they	provide	energy	more	
rapidly;	(3)	they	must	be	present	in	order	to	use	fat;	(4)	they	are	the	sole	source	of	
energy	for	the	central	nervous	system,	and	(5)	they	can	generate	 6	percent	more	energy	
per	unit	of	oxygen	consumed.
Carbohydrate utilization at onset of exercise
As	mentioned	 in	Chapter 	8, 	phosphocreatine	 or	PCr	is	the	primary	 energy	substrate	
available	 for	replenishing	 ATP	during	very	intense	muscular	 exercise	 of	short	duration	
(i.e.,	≤10	s).	This	idea	was	initially	supported	 both	by	theoretical	 calculations	 of	the	
energy	required	 for	the	production	 of	muscle	force	and	the	rapid	decline	in	PCr	found	
during	very	intense	exercise.	 Consequently,	 it	has	long	been	assumed	 that	the	provision	
of	energy	via	a	particular	 metabolic	 pathway	 is	linked	sequentially;	 that	is,	during	intense	
exercise,	 PCr	stores	are	almost	depleted	 in	the	initial	10	s	and	further	contractile	 activity	
is	then	sustained	 by	the	metabolism	 of	muscle	glycogen.	 However,	 it	is	now	understood	
that	carbohydrate,	 particularly	 glycogen	 and	glucose,	 will	take	a	fair	share	of	energy	pro-
vision	at	the	onset	of	exercise.	 Boobis	 et al.	(1982)	found	that	with	all-	out	bicycle	ergom-
eter	exercise	 aimed	to	accomplish	 as	much	work	as	possible	 in	6	s,	a	35	percent	decrease	
in	PCr	occurred	 along	with	a	15	percent	reduction	 in	glycogen.	 When	such	exercise	 was	
performed	 for	30	s,	a	65	percent	 decrement	 in	PCr	was	found	concomitant	 with	a	25	
percent	 reduction	 in	glycogen.	 Similar	results	have	been	reported	 for	short	duration	
maximal	 treadmill	 running	 and	cycling	(Cheetham	 et al.	1986,	McCartney	 et al.	1986).	
Collectively,	 these	studies	indicate	 that	PCr	breakdown	 and	glycogenolysis	 occur	con-
comitantly	from	the	onset	of	exercise.
Influence of exercise intensity and duration
During	very	intense	exercise	 when	oxygen	consumption	 fails	to	meet	energy	demands,	
stored	muscle	and	liver	glycogen	 become	 the	primary	 energy	sources	because	 energy	
transfer	from	carbohydrates	 can	occur	without	oxygen.	With	the	reintroduction	 of	the	
needle	biopsy	technique	 in	early	1960s,	considerable	 effort	has	been	devoted	 to	the	
study	of	glycogen	 utilization	 during	exercise	 as	well	as	the	re-	establishment	 of	glycogen	
stores	after	exercise.	 A	landmark	 study	by	Gollnick	 et al.	(1974)	revealed	 that	muscle	
glycogen	 breakdown	 is	most	rapid	during	the	early	stages	of	exercise	 with	its	rate	of	utili-
zation	being	exponentially	 related	to	exercise	 intensity.	 They	also	found	that	slow-	twitch	
muscle	fibers	were	the	first	to	lose	glycogen.	 This	was	then	followed	 by	increased	 glyco-
gen	utilization	 in	fast-	twitch	muscle	fibers.	As	exercise	 continues,	 the	rate	of	muscle	gly-
cogen	utilization	 declines	 and	this	is	then	accompanied	 by	an	increased	 contribution	 of	
blood-	borne	glucose	degraded	 from	liver	glycogen	 as	a	metabolic	 fuel.	It	is	estimated	
that	a	two-	hour	vigorous	 workout	 just	about	depletes	 glycogen	 in	the	liver	as	well	as	exer-
cised	muscle.
	 During	 moderate-	 intensity	 exercise,	 utilization	 of	PCr	as	an	energy	source	is	relatively	
mild,	even	at	the	onset	of	exercise.	 Glycogen	 stored	in	active	muscle	supplies	 almost	all	
the	energy	in	the	transition	 from	rest	to	exercise.	 As	soon	as	a	steady	state	is	attained,	
energy	is	then	provided	 through	 a	mixed	use	of	carbohydrates	 and	lipids.	Typically,	 liver	
and	muscle	glycogen	 supply	is	between	 40	and	50	percent	of	the	energy	requirement,	

Nutrients metabolism 		193
whereas	 the	remainder	 is	furnished	 via	the	oxidation	 of	lipids.	Such	energy	mixture	may	
vary	depending	 on	the	intensity	 of	exercise,	 although	 it	may	also	be	influenced	 by	the	
training	 status	of	an	individual	 and	dietary	intake	of	carbohydrates.	 For	example,	 a	
trained	individual	 is	able	to	use	proportionally	 more	fat	as	energy	at	a	submaximal	 work-
load,	and	those	who	consume	 a	diet	low	in	carbohydrates	 may	force	their	body	to	use	
relatively	 more	fats	instead	of	carbohydrates.	 As	exercise	 continues,	 muscle	glycogen	
stores	diminish	 progressively.	 Consequently,	 as	blood	glucose	 from	liver	glycogen	
becomes	 the	major	supplier	 of	carbohydrate	 energy,	the	relative	contribution	 of	fat	to	
the	total	energy	provision	 also	increases.	 With	glycogen	 depletion,	 the	maximal	 steady-	
state	exercise	 intensity	 that	can	be	sustained	 decreases	 accordingly.	 This	is	mainly	caused	
by	a	slower	rate	of	energy	production	 via	fat	metabolism.	 As	bodily	glycogen	 decreases	
significantly,	 blood	glucose	also	falls	because	the	liver’s	glucose	output	fails	to	match	the	
rate	of	glucose	uptake	by	exercising	 muscles.	 Hypoglycemia 	is	said	to	occur	when	blood	
glucose	concentration	 is	lower	than	2.5	mmol	l–1	or	45	mg	dL–1.	This	condition	 may	occur	
during	strenuous	 exercise	 that	lasts	for	close	to	or	more	than	two	hours.	Table 	9.1 	
illustrates	 the	percentage	 of	energy	derived	from	the	four	major	sources	of	fuel	during	
prolonged	 moderate-	 intensity	 exercise	 (i.e.,	65	to	75	percent	 VO2max)	in	trained	
individuals.
Liver sources of carbohydrate
During	exercise	 when	utilization	 of	carbohydrates	 accelerates,	 an	increased	 release	of	
glucose	from	the	liver	is	functionally	 important	 to	maintain	 blood	glucose	homeostasis	 and	
to	possibly	attenuate	 muscle	glycogen	 depletion.	 It	remains	subject	to	debate	whether	 the	
increased	 availability	 of	blood	glucose	helps	in	sparing	the	use	of	muscle	glycogen. 	
However,	 it	appears	that	once	hypoglycemia	 is	induced,	 muscle	glycogen	 utilization	 is	likely	
to	accelerate.	 The	increased	 contribution	 of	liver	glycogen	 is	a	universal	 phenomenon	 that	
was	revealed	 nearly	50	years	ago.	Early	studies	have	demonstrated	 that	the	release	of	
glucose	from	liver	glycogen	 was	accelerated	 three	to	six	times	that	of	resting	values	during	
muscular 	work.	Over	the	following 	two	to	three	decades	there	has	been	repeated 	evidence	
suggesting	 that	 hepatic glucose output 	can	increase	 by	two-	to	three-	fold	during	moderate 	
exercise	and	up	to	seven-	to	ten-	 fold	during	vigorous	exercise.
	 The	intensity	 and	duration	 of	exercise	 are	the	important	 factors	that	determine	 the	
source	and	quantity	 of	glucose	released	 by	the	liver.	During	moderate	 exercise	 (<60	
percent	VO2max),	the	blood	glucose	level	remains	relatively 	constant	despite	an	increase	
in	glucose	utilization	 by	exercising	 muscles.	 At	this	intensity,	 a	fall	in	blood	glucose	will	not	
occur	unless	exercise	is	prolonged	 for	several	hours.	The	level	of	blood	glucose	reflects	a	
Table 9.1		Percentage	 of	energy	derived	from	the	four	major	sources	of	fuel	during	moderate-
intensity	exercise	at	65	to	75	percent	VO2max
Energy sources % of energy expenditure
Onset of exercise 1st hour 2nd hour 3rd hour 4th hour
Muscle	glycogen 45 35 22 12  0
Blood	glucose 	5 13 23 30 40
Plasma-free	fatty	acids 25 32 39 46 52
Muscle	triglycerides 25 20 16 12 	8
Note
Data	are	the	estimated	percentages	of	energy	expenditure	based	on	studies	that	used	endurance	athletes.

194		 Nutrients metabolism
balance	 between	 hepatic	glucose	output	and	muscular	 glucose	utilization.	 Hence,	at	
moderate	 intensity,	 an	exercise-	induced	 rise	in	hepatic	glucose	output	is	able	to	match	the	
increased	 glucose	utilization.	 In	contrast,	 if	exercise	 becomes	 more	intense	(>60	percent	
VO2max),	blood	glucose	concentrations	 increase,	 especially	 during	the	early	phase	of	exer-
cise,	and	such	an	increase	is	more	pronounced 	at	higher	exercise	intensities 	(Hargreaves	
and	Proietto	 1994).	This	mismatch	 may	be	due	to	the	fact	that	hepatic	glucose	output	
exceeds	glucose	uptake	by	working	muscles.	 It	has	been	considered	 that	the	production	 of	
glucose	from	the	liver	is	not	totally	regulated	 by	feedback	 mechanism,	 which	is	fundament -
ally	important	 in	maintaining	 homeostasis.	 In	this	case	of	over-	production	 of	hepatic	
glucose,	the	finding	has	been	attributed 	to	increased 	efferent	signals	of	the	central	nervous	
system	that	regulate	hepatic	glucose	metabolism	(Kjaer	 et al.	1987).
Gluconeogenesis: generating glucose in the liver
An	increase	 in	liver	glucose	output	may	be	brought	 about	by	an	enhancement	 of	glycog-
enolysis	 and	 gluconeogenesis .	While	glycogenolysis	 is	a	relatively	 simple	process	that	
involves	 glycogen	 breakdown	 into	glucose,	 gluconeogenesis	 entails	a	relatively	 complex	
pathway	 that	involves	the	use	of	non-	glucose	molecules	 such	as	amino	acids	or	lactate	for	
the	production	 of	glucose	in	the	liver.	This	“new”	glucose	can	then	be	released	 into	the	
blood	and	transported	 back	to	skeletal	muscles	 to	be	used	as	an	energy	source.	This	
internal	 production	 of	glucose	may	be	viewed	as	the	secondary	 resort	from	which	the	
body	obtains	glucose.	 Figures 	9.1 	and	9.2	demonstrate	 the	two	different	 processes	 of	glu-
coneogenesis	 in	which	glucose	is	generated	 from	its	precursors	 lactate	and	alanine,	
respectively.	 In	general,	 glycogenolysis	 appears	 to	respond	 more	quickly	and	to	con-
tribute	more	of	the	total	hepatic	glucose	output	during	exercise.	 During	the	first	30	
minutes	 of	exercise	 of	either	moderate	 or	heavy	intensity,	 most	of	the	glucose	released	
by	the	liver	is	derived	from	hepatic	glycogenolysis.	 Gluconeogenesis,	 however,	 seems	to	
be	more	responsive	 to	the	length	of	exercise	 and	to	play	a	more	important	 role	during	
the	later	phase	of	prolonged	 exercise.	 In	a	series	of	experiments	 using	dogs,	Wasserman	
et al.	(1988)	found	that	the	relative	contribution	 of	gluconeogenesis	 to	the	total	hepatic	
glucose	output	was	only	15	percent	during	the	first	60	minutes	 of	exercise.	 However,	 it	
reached	20	to	25	percent	when	exercise	continued	for	another	hour	and	a	half.
NH2 NH2
Urea Pyruvate
Glucose Glycogen
Liver
Glucose in bloodSkeletal
muscleAlanine in blood
Alanine
Pyruvate Amino
acids
Glucose GlycogenAlanine
Figure 9.1 		An	example	 of	gluconeogenesis	 during	which	the	muscle-derived	 lactate	is	
converted	 into	glucose	and	this	newly	formed	glucose	then	circulates	 back	to	
muscle

Nutrients metabolism 		195
	 Exercise	 intensity	 can	influence	 the	type	of	gluconeogenic	 precursors	 used	to	
produce	 glucose	in	the	liver.	Glycerol,	 lactate,	and	amino	acid	are	the	three	major	pre-
cursors	that	may	be	converted	 into	glucose	via	gluconeogenesis.	 It	is	generally	 believed	
that	when	exercise	 is	performed	 at	an	intensity	 level	below	 lactate threshold ,	an	intensity	
above	which	the	production	 of	lactate	will	increase	 sharply,	glycerol	is	the	primary	mol-
ecule	used	for	gluconeogenesis.	 As	exercise	 intensity	 approaches	 and	exceeds	the	lactate	
threshold,	 more	lactate	becomes	 available	 for	producing	 glucose	in	the	liver.	Such	dif-
ferent	uses	of	gluconeogenic	 precursors	 at	different	 exercise	 intensities	 make	sense	in	
that	glycerol	is	a	product	 of	lipolysis	and	fat	utilization	 increases	 during	exercise	 of	low	
to	moderate	 intensity.	 However,	 as	intensity	 increases	 more	glycogen	 is	degraded,	
thereby	producing	 more	lactic	acid.	An	increased	 contribution	 of	amino	acids	to	gluco-
neogenesis	 would	be	seen	particularly	 during	vigorous	 exercise	 that	lasts	for	a	prolonged	
period	of	time.	In	this	case,	both	muscle	and	liver	glycogen	 stores	decrease	 significantly	
and	there	is	a	necessity	 to	produce	 more	glucose	in	order	to	prevent	the	occurrence	 of	
hypoglycemia.
Regulation of muscle and liver glycogen degradation
Muscle	glycogen 	is	the	primary	carbohydrate 	fuel	for	most	types	of	exercise	and	the	
heavier	the	exercise	intensity, 	the	faster	glycogen 	is	degraded. 	The	three	major	factors	
that	control	muscle	glycogen	 breakdown	 are	(1)	hormone	 epinephrine ,	(2)	activity	of	
glycogen phosphorylase ,	and	(3)	substrate	 availability.	 It	is	generally	 considered	 that	
epinephrine	 plays	the	most	important	 role	in	mediating	 muscle	glycogen	 degradation. 	
The	major	action	of	epinephrine 	is	to	facilitate	glycogenolysis. 	This	catabolic 	action	is	
initiated	 by	second	messengers,	 which	activate	protein	kinases	needed	for	glycogen-
olysis,	and	plasma	epinephrine	 is	responsible	 for	the	formation	 of	cyclic	AMP	when	bound	
with	β	adrenergic	 receptors	 (Hargreaves	 2006).	Glycogen	 phosphorylase	 is	an	enzyme	that	
catalyzes	 the	first	step	of	glycogen	 breakdown	 and	is	responsible	 for	supplying	 individual 	Pyruvate
Glucose 6-phosphate
Glucose Glycogen
Liver
Glucose in b loodSkeletal
muscleLactic acid in b lood
Lactic acid
Pyruvate
Glucose 6-phosphate
Glucose GlycogenLactic acid
Figure 9.2 		An	example	 of	gluconeogenesis	 during	which	the	muscle-derived	 alanine	is	
converted	 into	glucose	and	this	newly	formed	glucose	then	circulates	 back	to	
muscle

196		 Nutrients metabolism
glucose	molecules	 to	the	glycolytic	 pathway	 for	producing	 ATP.	In	the	resting	state,	this	
enzyme	exists	primarily	 in	the	inactive	b	form,	and	the	activity	of	which	can	be	stimu-
lated	if	energy	demand	 increases.	 In	response	 to	muscle	contraction	 or	stimulation	 by	
epinephrine,	 the	phosphorylase	 b	inactive	 form	is	converted	 to	the	phosphorylase	 a	
active	form.	However,	 under	the	influence	 of	insulin,	 activated	 phosphorylase	 can	
become	 deactivated.	 This	will	then	reduce	the	availability	 of	glucose.	 Substrate	 avail-
ability	will	also	affect	the	rate	of	glycogen	 degradation.	 Early	studies	have	shown	that	
increases	 in	pre-	exercise	 muscle	glycogen	 result	in	enhanced	 muscle	glycogen	 utilization	
during	exercise.	 It	was	proposed	 that	glycogen	 can	bind	to	glycogen	 phosphorylase	 and,	
in	doing	so,	increase	 its	activity.	Availability	 of	blood-	borne	substrates	 such	as	glucose	
may	also	influence	 muscle	glycogenolysis.	 Coyle	 et al.	(1991)	found	that	an	increase	 in	
blood	glucose	as	a	result	of	intravenous	 infusion	 of	glucose	resulted	 in	a	decrease	 in	
muscle	glycogen	 utilization.	 However,	 when	blood	glucose	was	brought	 down,	no	altera-
tion	in	glycogen	utilization	was	observed.
	 The	main	function	 of	liver	glycogen	 is	to	maintain	 blood	glucose	homeostasis	 by	
degrading	 into	glucose	when	blood	glucose	levels	decrease.	 Liver	glycogen	 degradation	
is	mainly	regulated	 by	insulin	and	glucagon,	 the	two	hormones	 that	work	against	each	
other	in	regulating	 blood	glucose	concentrations.	 Insulin	promotes	 glycogen	 synthesis,	
whereas	 glucagon	 facilitates	 glycogen	 degradation.	 Both	hormones	 exert	their	glucoreg -
ulatory	function	 in	the	liver.	By	manipulating	 insulin	and	glucagon	 levels	with	the	infu-
sion	technique,	 studies	have	demonstrated	 favorable	 responses	 of	hepatic	glucose	output	
(Wasserman	 et al.	1984,	1989).	In	other	words,	when	plasma	insulin	was	made	to	
decrease	 or	when	plasma	glucagon	 was	made	to	increase,	 there	was	a	resultant	 increase	
in	hepatic	 glucose	 production.	 The	greatest	 effect	on	hepatic	 glucose	 uptake	was	
observed	 when	there	was	a	simultaneous	 decrease	 in	glucagon	 and	an	increase	 in	insulin	
(Marker	 et al.	1991).	Liver	glycogenolysis	 may	also	be	subject	to	the	control	by	auto-
nomic/adrenergic	 activities.	 In	a	study	that	used	leg	as	well	as	combined	 arm	and	leg	
exercise,	 Kjaer	 et al.	(1991)	observed	 a	positive	 correlation	 between	 plasma	catecho-
lamines	and	hepatic	glucose	output.	In	addition,	 in	an	animal	study	in	which	the	adrenal	
medulla	 was	removed,	 Richter	 et al.	(1981)	and	Sonne	 et al.	(1985)	found	a	reduced	 liver	
glycogenolysis	 and	hepatic	glucose	output.	These	findings	 suggest	that	epinephrine	 and	
norepinephrine	 also	play	a	role	in	the	exercise-	 induced	 increase	 in	glucose	output	from	
the	liver.
Regulation of glycolysis and the Krebs cycle
As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	8, 	glycolysis	 and	the	aerobic	pathway	 containing	 the	Krebs	cycle	
are	the	two	pathways	 in	which	glucose	is	further	metabolized	 with	or	without	oxygen.	
Each	process	consists	of	a	series	of	sequential	 chemical	 reactions	 and	each	reaction	 is	
catalyzed	 by	a	specific	enzyme.	 The	rate	of	glycolysis	 is	controlled	 by	the	activity	of	phos-
phofructokinase 	(PFK).	PFK	catalyzes	 the	third	step	of	glycolysis.	 When	exercise	 begins,	
increases	 in	ADP	and	Pi	levels	activate	PFK,	thereby	accelerating	 glycolysis.	 PFK	is	also	
activated	 by	an	increase	 in	cellular	levels	of	hydrogen	 ions	and	ammonia.	 The	Krebs	
cycle,	like	glycolysis,	 is	also	subject	to	enzymatic	 regulation.	 Among	numerous	 enzymes	
involved,	 isocitrate dehydrogenase 	(IDH)	is	thought	 to	be	the	rate-	limiting	 enzyme	in	
the	aerobic	pathway.	 This	enzyme	catalyzes	 a	reaction	 during	the	early	phase	of	the	
Krebs	cycle.	Similar	to	PFK,	the	enzyme	is	stimulated	 by	ADP	and	Pi	and	inhibited	 by	
ATP.	IDH	is	also	sensitive	 to	the	change	in	cellular	levels	of	calcium.	 McCormack	 and	
Denton	(1994)	have	found	that	an	increase	 in	calcium	ions	in	mitochondria	 stimulates	
IDH.	This	finding	is	in	congruence	 with	the	concept	 that	an	increase	 in	calcium	ions	in	
muscles	is	essential	to	initiate	muscle	contraction	that	requires	energy.

Nutrients metabolism 		197
Lipid metabolism
Triglycerides	 represent	 another	 major	source	of	energy	stored	primarily	 in	adipose	
tissue,	although	 they	are	also	found	in	muscle	tissue.	As	discussed	 in	Chapter	 2,	a	
triglyceride	 molecule	 comprises	 glycerol	 and	three	fatty	acids	that	can	vary	in	terms	of	
how	many	carbons	 each	fatty	acid	contains.	 Via	lipolysis,	 a	triglyceride	 is	split	to	form	
glycerol	 and	three	independent	 fatty	acids.	These	products	 can	then	enter	metabolic	
pathways	 for	energy	production.	 Despite	the	large	quantity	 of	lipids	available	 as	fuel,	the	
processes	 of	lipid	utilization	 are	slow	to	be	activated	 and	proceed	 at	rates	significantly	
lower	than	the	processes	 controlling	 carbohydrate	 utilization.	 However,	 lipids	are	an	
important	 segment	 of	energy	substrates	 used	during	prolonged	 exercise	 or	during	
extreme	 circumstances	 such	as	fasting	or	starvation	 when	carbohydrate	 stores	decline	
significantly.	 Even	small	increases	 in	the	ability	to	use	lipids	as	fuel	during	exercise	 can	
help	slow	muscle	glycogen	 and	blood	glucose	utilization	 and	delay	the	onset	of	fatigue.	
An	increase	 in	the	ability	to	use	lipids	can	be	realized	by	the	improved	 oxidative	 capacity	
of	skeletal	muscle	following	endurance	training.
Energy sources from lipids
Three	lipid	sources	supply	energy:	(1)	fatty	acids	released	 from	the	breakdown	 of	
triglycerides;	 (2)	circulating	 plasma	 triglycerides	 bound	 to	lipoproteins;	 and	
(3)	triglycerides	 within	the	active	muscle	itself.	Unlike	carbohydrates,	 which	can	yield	
energy	without	using	oxygen,	 fat	catabolism	 is	purely	an	aerobic	process	that	is	best	
developed	in	the	heart,	liver,	and	slow-	 twitch	muscle	fibers.	Most	fat	is	stored	in	the	form	
of	triglycerides	 in	fat	cells	or	adipocytes,	 but	some	is	stored	in	muscle	cells	as	well.	The	
major	factor	that	determines	 the	role	of	fat	as	an	energy	substrate	 during	exercise	 is	its	
availability	 to	the	muscle	cell.	In	order	for	fat	to	be	oxidized,	 triglycerides	 must	first	be	
cleaved	to	three	molecules	 of	free	fatty	acid	(FFA)	and	one	molecule	 of	glycerol.	 This	
process,	 namely	lipolysis,	 occurs	through	 the	activity	of	lipase,	an	enzyme	found	in	the	
liver,	adipose	tissue,	muscle,	as	well	as	blood-	vessels.	Lipolysis	 is	modulated	 by	the	hor-
mones	epinephrine	 and	norepinephrine.	 As	such,	this	process	is	considered	 intensity	
dependent	 because	 the	release	of	these	hormones	 increases	 as	exercise	 intensity	
increases.	 It	must	be	noted	that	lipolysis	and	oxidation	 are	the	two	separate	 processes	 of	
fat	utilization.	 The	latter	process	is	facilitated	 during	low-	to	moderate-	 intensity	 exercise	
in	which	the	production	of	lactic	acid	is	low.
Preparatory stages for fat utilization
Following	 lipolysis,	 two	additional	 processes	 must	also	occur	before	FFA	can	be	com-
busted:	(1)	mitochondria	 transfer,	 and	(2)	ß–oxidation .	The	oxidation 	of	fatty	acids	
occurs	within	the	mitochondria. 	However, 	long-	chain	fatty	acids	are	normally 	unable	
to	cross	the	inner	mitochondrial	 membrane	 due	to	their	molecular	 size.	This	would	
then	require	a	membrane	 transport	 system	consisting	 of	protein	carriers.	 The	carrier	
molecule	 for	this	system	is	carnitine ,	which	is	synthesized 	in	human	from	amino	acids	
lysine	and	methionine	 and	is	found	in	high	concentration	 in	muscle.	Under	the	assist-
ance	of	carnitine	 and	an	enzyme	 called	 carnitine palmitoyl transferase (CPT) ,	fatty	
acids	can	be	brought	 from	cytoplasm	 into	mitochondria.	 Upon	entry	into	the	mito-
chondria,	 fatty	acids	undergo	 another	 process	 called	 ß–oxidation.	 ß–oxidation	 is	a	
sequence	 of	reactions	 that	reduce	a	long-	chain	fatty	acid	into	multiple	 two-	carbon	
units	in	the	form	of	acetyl-	CoA	(Figure	9.3).	This	process	may	be	viewed	as	being	ana-
logous	to	glycolysis,	 the	first	stage	of	the	oxidative	 pathway	 for	glucose	 in	which	a	

198		 Nutrients metabolism
glucose	molecule 	is	converted 	into	two	molecules 	of	acetyl-	CoA.	Once	formed,	acetyl-	
CoA	then	becomes	 a	fuel	source	for	the	Krebs	cycle	and	leads	to	the	production	 of	
ATP	within	the	electron	transport	chain.
Influence of intensity and duration on fat utilization
Fat	oxidation	 is	influenced	 by	exercise	 intensity	 and	duration.	 Romijn	 et al.	(1993)	found	
that	during	exercise	 at	25	percent	VO2max,	90	percent	of	the	total	energy	is	furnished	
via	oxidation	 of	plasma	FFA	and	muscle	triglycerides.	 The	relative	contribution	 of	fat	to	
total	oxidative	 metabolism	 decreases	 as	exercise	 intensity	 increases.	 However,	 such	
decrease	 in	the	relative	contribution	 of	fats	is	relatively	 minor	compared	 with	an	increase	
in	oxygen	consumption.	 Therefore,	 despite	a	decrease	 in	relative	contribution,	 there	is	
actually	an	increase	 in	the	amount	 of	fats	being	oxidized	 until	the	intensity	 reaches	a	
value	close	to	one’s	lactate	threshold	 (or	~60	percent	 VO2max).	A	number	 of	recent	Activ ated f atty acid
(fatty acyl-CoA)
Mitochondr ion
ATP*Free fatty acid
Fatty acyl-CoA
Beta o xidation
Acetyl-CoA
Krebs
cycle
Electron
transpor t
chain
Figure 9.3 	Illustration	of	 ß–oxidation
Source:	Powers	and	Howley	(2018).	Used	with	permission.

Nutrients metabolism   199
studies	have	found	that	the	intensity	 at	which	the	highest	fat	oxidation	 (Fatmax)	is	
observed	 ranges	from	55	to	72	percent	VO2max	(Achten	 et al.	2002,	2004).	For	example,	
by	testing	with	multiple	 levels	of	intensity,	 Achten	 et al.	(2002)	found	that	Fatmax	in	
endurance-	 trained	men	occurred	 at	about	64	percent	 VO2max,	with	maximal	 rates	of	
~0.6	g	min–1	observed.	 This	same	research	 group	also	demonstrated	 that	Fatmax	was	lower	
in	untrained	 as	compared	 to	trained	individuals	 and	men	had	lower	Fatmax	than	women	
(Venables	 et al.	2005).	In	our	laboratory,	 we	also	demonstrated	 that	the	intensity	 of	
maximal	 fat	oxidation	 corresponds	 well	with	lactate	threshold	 (Kang	 et al.	2007),	sug-
gesting	that	in	order	to	obtain	the	maximal	 fat	oxidation,	 a	comparatively	 more	intense	
exercise	 should	be	chosen.	 When	exercise	 is	performed	 at	intensity	 above	the	lactate	
threshold,	 fat	oxidation	 decreases	 significantly.	 This	may	be	the	result	of	increased	 car-
bohydrate	 utilization	 and/or	the	accumulation	 of	lactic	acid	that	may	serve	to	inhibit	fat	
utilization.
	 As	shown	in	Table	9.1,	as 	a	steady-	state	exercise	 of	light	to	moderate	 intensity	 con-
tinues,	the	contribution	 of	fat	to	the	total	oxidative	 metabolism	 increases	 progressively.	
Using	a	prolonged	 exercise	 protocol	 in	which	exercise	 lasted	for	four	hours,	earlier	
studies	have	demonstrated	 a	progressive	 decrease	 in	respiratory	 exchange	 ratio,	signify-
ing	a	steady	increase	 in	fat	combustion	 (see	Chapter 	12 	for	further	details	on	the	
concept	 and	application	 of	the	respiratory	 exchange	 ratio).	It	has	been	estimated	 that	
the	relative	contribution	 of	fat	may	account	 for	as	much	as	80	percent	of	total	energy	
expenditure	 during	prolonged	 exercise.	 The	progressive	 increase	 in	fat	utilization	 over	
time	is	due	to	a	concomitant	 decrease	 in	glycogen	 stores	as	a	result	of	prolonged	 exer-
cise.	This	reduction	 in	carbohydrate	 energy	substrates	 will	trigger	a	release	of	gluco-
regulatory	 hormones	 such	as	glucagon,	 cortisol,	 and	growth	hormone.	 These	hormones	
function	 to	stimulate	 the	breakdown	 of	lipids	in	response	 to	reduced	 carbohydrate	
stores.	Refer	to	the	later	sections	of	this	chapter	for	more	information	 with	regard	to	the	
hormonal	regulation	of	fuel	utilization.
Interaction between carbohydrate and fat utilization
The	utilization	 of	carbohydrates	 and	fats	are	not	two	separate	 processes.	 Instead	they	are	
coordinated,	 and	the	utilization	 of	one	substrate	 would	be	affected	 by	the	availability	 of	
the	other.	It	has	been	suggested	 that	carbohydrate	 availability	 during	exercise	 modulates	
the	level	of	lipolysis	 and	fat	oxidation.	 Previous	 studies	found	that	ingesting	 high-	
glycemic	 carbohydrates	 prior	to	exercise	 significantly	 blunts	the	release	of	fatty	acids	
from	adipose	tissue	and	thus	oxidation	 of	long-	chain	fatty	acids	by	skeletal	muscle	(Coyle	
et al.	1997,	De	Glisezinski	 et al.	1998).	As	carbohydrate	 substrates	 decline,	such	a	suppres-
sive	effect	of	carbohydrate	 on	fat	utilization	 is	withdrawn.	 Conversely,	 an	elevation	 in	
blood-	free	fatty	acids	may	suppress	 carbohydrate	 utilization.	 This	was	initially	evidenced	
in	a	study	where	subjects	 were	infused	with	triacylglycerol	 and	demonstrated	 a	conse-
quential	 decrease	 in	muscle	glycogen	 breakdown	 following	 an	endurance	 exercise	
(Costill	 et al.	1977).	A	reduction	 in	carbohydrate	 utilization	 was	also	observed	 when	
subjects	 were	fed	with	fat	in	conjunction	 with	heparin	 that	helps	facilitate	 lipolysis	
(Vukovich	 et al.	1993).
	 Such	 interaction	 between	 carbohydrates	 and	fats	may	be	explained	 by	the	classical	
glucose–fatty	 acids	cycle	discovered	 by	British	biochemist	 Philip	Randle	over	40	years	
ago.	As	shown	in	Figure	9.4,	with	an 	increase	 in	plasma	fatty	acid	concentration,	 there	is	
an	increase	 in	fatty	acid	entry	into	the	cell	and	subsequent	 increase	 in	β–oxidation	 in	
which	fatty	acids	are	broken	down	into	acetyl-	CoA.	An	increased	 concentration	 of	acetyl-	
CoA	will	then	inhibit	several	key	enzymes	 that	catalyze	carbohydrate	 degradation	 (i.e.,	
PDH	and	PFK)	as	well	as	cellular	glucose	uptake	(i.e.,	HK).	Randle’s	 hypothesis	 has	

200		 Nutrients metabolism
been	used	to	explain	how	the	mitochondrial	 adaptations	 resulting	 from	endurance	
training	 help	promote	 lipid	oxidation	 and	thus	spare	glycogen	 utilization	 in	skeletal	
muscle	during	exercise.
Regulation of lipolysis and fat oxidation
The	interaction	 between	 carbohydrates	 and	fats	discussed	 earlier	may	be	further	
ascribed	 to	the	effect	of	hormones	 that	regulate	 fuel	utilization.	 In	order	to	be	metab-
olized,	stored	fat	must	first	undergo 	lipolysis	in	which	triglycerides 	are	degraded 	to	
fatty	acids	and	glycerol.	 The	resulting	 fatty	acids	are	then	converted	 into	acetyl-	CoA	
and	enter	the	Krebs	cycle	for	further	metabolism.	 Adipose	 tissue	lipolysis	 is	controlled 	
by	the	hormone-	 sensitive	 lipase,	which	breaks	the	bonding	 of	triglycerides	 so	that	fatty	
acids	and	glycerol	 are	formed.	 This	enzyme	is	regulated	 by	hormones	 of	insulin,	glu-
cagon,	catecholamines,	 cortisol,	 and	growth	hormone.	 Release	 of	these	hormones 	
increases	 when	bodily	carbohydrates	 decrease	 except	for	insulin.	Of	these	hormones, 	
insulin	is	the	only	one	that	inhibits	lipolysis,	 whereas	 all	the	others	function	 as	a	stimu-
lator.	Of	those	stimulating	 hormones,	 catecholamines	 are	the	most	potent	stimulator 	
of	lipolysis	 during	 exercise.	 Catecholamines	 are	bound	with	the	β-adrenergic 	PyruvatePyruvateFFA FFAFructose 6-PGlucose 6-PGlucose Glucose(–)
(–)
(–)
(–)(–)
GlycogenCell
HK
PFK
Mitochondr ionAcetyl
CoA
Citrate�-oxidation
Figure 9.4 	Schematic	illustration	of	glucose	and	fatty	acid	cycle	or	Randle	cycle

Nutrients metabolism 		201
receptors,	 causing	a	production	 of	a	second	messenger	 cyclic	AMP.	This	later	product	
then	triggers	 a	series	of	chemical	 events	through	 which	the	activity	of	hormone- 	
sensitive	 lipase	becomes	 activated.	 On	the	other	hand,	insulin	can	reverse	the	effects	
of	lipolytic	 hormones.	 It	is	thought	 that	insulin	suppresses	 lipolysis	 by	either	decreas-
ing	cyclic	AMP	concentration	 or	inhibiting	 enzymes	 needed	 to	activate	 hormone- 	
sensitive	lipase.
	 Regulation	 of	fat	utilization	 requires	 fatty	acids	to	be	transported	 into	the	mito-
chondria	 where	fat	can	be	oxidized.	 In	this	context,	 the	mass	of	mitochondria	 and	
oxygen	delivery	are	important 	factors	in	determining 	rates	of	fat	utilization. 	The	
process	in	which	fatty	acids	are	transported	 across	the	mitochondrial	 membrane	 is	
mainly	controlled	 by	the	activity	of	carnitine	 palmitoyl	 transferase	 (CPT).	As	dis-
cussed	earlier,	CPT	is	part	of	the	transport 	system	needed	for	long-	chain	fatty	acids	to	
enter	the	mitochondrion 	where	oxidation 	takes	place.	In	this	context,	it	makes	sense	
that	CPT	plays	an	important	 role	in	the	control	of	fat	oxidation.	 CPT	is	regulated	 by	
malonyl- CoA,	an	intermediate	 in	fatty	acid	synthesis.	 An	increase	 in	malonyl-	 CoA	
content	inhibits	the	activity	of	CPT,	thereby	reducing 	fat	utilization. 	During	high-	
intensity	 exercise,	 the	high	rate	of	glycogenolysis	 increases	 the	amount	 of	acetyl-	CoA	
in	the	muscle	cell,	and	some	of	this	acetyl-	CoA	is	converted	 into	malonyl-	 CoA.	This	
increased	 malonyl-	 CoA	then	suppresses	 CPT	and	thus	reduces	 the	transport	 of	fatty	
acids	into	the	mitochondria.	 Conversely,	 as	carbohydrate	 energy	sources	are	depleted, 	
such	inhibitive	 effects	from	malonyl-	 CoA	on	CPT	attenuate	 due	to	reduced	 glycoge-
nolysis.	Consequently, 	the	activity	of	CPT	is	augmented 	and	fat	utilization 	is	
enhanced.	 Besides	malonyl-	 CoA,	Starritt	 et al.	(2000)	suggested	 that	a	reduction	 in	
pH	(or	an	increase	in	acidity)	associated 	with	high-	intensity 	exercise	would	also	serve	
as	an	inhibitor	to	the	activity	of	CPT.
	 Tissues	 that	have	rich	mitochondrial	 and	capillary	 content	such	as	the	heart	and	liver	
are	highly	adapted	 for	fat	utilization,	 whereas	 brain	and	red	blood	cells	rely	almost	
exclusively	 on	glycolysis	 for	energy.	In	skeletal	 muscle,	 fast-	twitch	muscle	fibers	are	
limited	in	utilizing	 fat	due	to	its	low	volume	of	mitochondria	 as	well	as	less	than	optimal	
blood	supply.	In	contrast,	 slow-	twitch	muscle	fibers	are	highly	capable	of	oxidizing	 fat	in	
that	they	are	rich	in	mitochondria	and	capillaries.
Protein and amino acid metabolism
Skeletal	 muscle	constitutes	 approximately	 40	percent	 of	the	body	weight	and	is	the	
second-	largest	store	of	potential	 energy	in	the	body	after	fat.	However,	 proteins	 and	
amino	acids	serving	as	energy	substrates	 are	a	relatively	 uncommon	 topic.	This	is	because	
amino	acids	contribute	 only	a	minor	portion	(i.e.,	5	to	15	percent)	 of	the	total	energy	
consumed	 during	exercise.	 Unlike	carbohydrates	 and	fats,	which	may	be	stored	as	
energy	substrates,	 there	are	virtually	 no	inert	amino	acids	that	are	designated	 for	such	a	
purpose.	 However,	 it	must	be	recognized	 that	during	fasting	and	starvation,	 catabolism	
of	proteins	 to	amino	acids	and	conversion	 of	amino	acids	into	energy	are	very	important	
processes	 in	maintaining	 the	levels	of	blood	glucose	essential	 for	brain	and	kidney	func-
tion.	It	has	been	reported	 that	gluconeogenesis	 which	uses	amino	acids	increases	 every	
morning	 in	response	 to	the	fall	in	glycogen	 stores.	In	the	past	decade	or	so,	researchers	
have	realized	 that	even	a	minor	increase	 in	protein	consumption	 is	important	 in	con-
ditions	of	high-	energy	demands	 over	a	prolonged	 period	of	time.	There	is	growing	 evid-
ence	especially	 with	more	recent	research	 on	branched- chain amino acids 	such	as	
leucine,	 valine,	and	isoleucine	 to	suggest	that	protein	serves	as	energy	fuel	to	a	much	
greater	extent	than	previously	believed.

202		 Nutrients metabolism
Protein metabolism during exercise
Protein	metabolism	 includes	 its	degradation	 and	synthesis.	 Unlike	carbohydrates	 and	
fats,	the	magnitude	 of	protein	degradation	 often	occurs	to	a	smaller	extent.	However,	 it	
can	be	increased	 significantly	 when	exercise	 is	performed	 at	high	intensity	 for	a	pro-
longed	period	of	time.	There	are	two	classes	of	protein	in	skeletal	muscle:	contractile	
and	non-	contractile.	 While	contractile-	 related	proteins	 are	responsible	 for	muscle	con-
traction,	 non-	contractile-related	 proteins	 are	essential	 for	other	cellular	functions.	 In	
humans,	 contractile	 and	non-	contractile	 proteins	 comprise	 66	and	34	percent	of	total	
muscle	protein,	 respectively.	 Remember	 that	a	protein	molecule	 comprises	 chains	of	
amino	acids.	As	such,	the	amino	acids	tyrosine	 and	phenylalanine	 have	been	used	as	
indicators	 of	non-	contractile	 protein	degradation.	 In	an	early	study	in	which	experi-
mental	protocol	 entailed	 40	minutes	 of	exercise	 performed	 at	different	 intensities,	 Felig	
and	Wahren	(1971)	demonstrated	 a	greater	release	of	tyrosine	and	phenylalanine	 as	well	
as	alanine	during	exercise	 compared	 with	rest,	with	such	an	enhanced	 efflux	of	metabo-
lites	being	greater	at	higher	exercise	 intensity.	 Later,	Babij	 et al.	(1983)	also	observed	 a	
direct	linear	relationship	 between	 exercise	 intensity	 and	oxidation	 of	leucine,	one	of	the	
three	branched-	 chain	amino	acids.	In	terms	of	the	metabolism	 of	contractile	 proteins,	
the	measurement	 of	3-methyhistidine	 (3-MH)	 in	the	urine	has	been	the	most	widely	
used	approach	 in	reflecting	 the	degradation	 of	contractile	 proteins,	 although	 this	para-
meter	may	also	be	determined	 via	the	blood.	Through	 a	thorough	 review	of	the	liter-
ature,	Dohm	 et al.	(1987)	came	to	the	conclusion	 that	the	production	 of	this	catabolic	
index	of	contractile	 protein	 decreases	 during	exercise.	 However,	 there	are	studies	
reporting	 an	increase	 in	the	efflux	of	3-MH	during	recovery.	 Taken	together,	 these	find-
ings	suggest	that	the	integrity	 of	contractile	 protein	remains	 unaffected	 during	exercise	
when	muscle	contraction	 is	in	demand;	 however,	 this	is	not	the	case	during	recovery.	
The	mechanism	 responsible	 for	the	divergent	 response	 in	3-MH	between	 exercise	 and	
recovery	is	unclear.
	 The	assessment	 of	protein	degradation	 along	with	protein	synthesis	 will	provide	an	
idea	as	to	whether	 those	who	exercise	 will	need	an	extra	protein	in	order	to	prevent	a	
loss	in	lean	body	mass.	Such	an	assessment	 may	be	accomplished	 by	determining	 nitro-
gen balance .	Protein	 contains	 nitrogen,	 and	the	body	cannot	oxidize	the	nitrogen 	
component.	 Consequently,	 nitrogen	 atoms	combine	 with	hydrogen	 to	form	urea	to	be	
excreted	 via	the	kidneys.	 Nitrogen	 balance	involves	 assessing	 the	relationship	 between	
the	dietary	intake	of	protein	 and	protein	 that	is	degraded	 and	excreted.	 Nitrogen 	
balance	is	said	to	occur	when	protein	intake	equals	the	amount	excreted. 	A	positive	
nitrogen	 balance	 suggests	 that	protein	intake	exceeds	 protein	output	and	the	exces-
sive	protein	may	have	been	used	to	repair	damaged	 tissue	and/or	to	synthesize	 new	
tissue.	A	positive	nitrogen	balance	is	expected	in	children,	pregnant	women,	and	body 	
builders	 (Table 	9.2). 	On	the	other	hand,	a	negative	 nitrogen	 balance	 indicates	 that	
protein	loss	is	greater	than	its	intake	and	this	type	of	nitrogen	 imbalance	 is	often	man-
ifested	in	individuals	 who	are	on	a	weight	loss	diet	or	with	poor	nutrition	 or	eating	
disorders 	( Table	9 .2).	A	negative	nitrogen 	balance	may	also	occur	in	athletes	who	are	
overly	trained	because	 the	protein	that	is	lost	may	have	been	degraded	 and	used	for	
energy	due	to	exercise.	 Protein	synthesis	 decreases	 during	exercise	 and	this	finding	
has	been	universally	 demonstrated.	 This	decreased	 protein	 synthesis	 together	 with	
increased	 protein	 degradation	 clearly	suggests	 that	those	who	are	heavily	trained	
would	experience 	an	augmented 	protein	loss	and	thus	require	a	higher	protein	intake	
on	a	regular	basis.	Lemon	 et al.	(1992)	administered	 two	levels	of	dietary	protein	in	a	
group	of	novice	body	builders	 who	underwent	 a	month	of	resistance	 training.	 They	
found	that	a	majority	of	those	who	are	on	the	lower	protein	intake	(i.e.,	0.99	 g	kg–1	per	

Nutrients metabolism 		203
day)	experienced 	a	negative	nitrogen 	balance,	whereas	all	of	those	who	are	on	the	
high	protein	intake	(i.e.,	2.62	g	kg–1	per	day)	achieved	 a	positive	nitrogen	 balance.	 It	
was	their	further	calculation	 that	nitrogen	 balance	 occurs	at	1.43	g	kg–1	per	day.	The	
recommended	 daily	allowance	 (RDA)	for	protein	is	0.8	g	kg–1	per	day	for	a	healthy	
adult.	However,	 in	light	of	augmented	 protein	catabolism	 associated	 with	heavy	exer-
cise,	it	is	suggested	 that	those	with	endurance	 training	 should	consume	 protein	
between	 1.2	and	1.4	g	kg–1	per	day	and	those	who	resistance	 train	may	benefit	from	
consuming	~1.6	 g	kg–1	per	day	(Fielding	and	Parkington	2002).
	 While	 net	protein	breakdown	 occurs	during	exercise,	 protein	synthesis	 is	believed	 to	
predominate	 during	the	recovery	 period.	It	has	been	evidenced	 that	whole	body	protein	
breakdown	 is	generally	 reduced	 following	 aerobic	endurance	 exercise,	 while	whole	body	
protein	synthesis	 is	either	increased	 or	unchanged	 (Tipton	 and	Wolfe	1998).	During	
resistance	 exercise,	 protein	breakdown	 was	also	observed	 in	exercised	 muscle	and	this	
catabolic	 response	 persisted	 in	the	immediate	 recovery	 period	(Tipton	and	Wolfe	1998).	
However,	 over	the	next	24	to	48	hours,	protein	synthesis	 appeared	 to	predominate	 and	
outpace	 protein	degradation.	 Such	positive	protein	balance	is	thought	 to	be	due	more	
to	the	stimulation	 of	synthesis	 rather	than	a	decrease	 in	breakdown	 (Wolfe	2006).	This	is	
especially	 so	if	adequate	 amino	acids	are	available.	 Eccentric	 exercise,	 such	as	lowering	
weights	 during	resistance	 exercise	 or	running	 downhill,	 puts	tremendous	 stress	on	
muscle	tissue,	and	often	induces	muscle	soreness	 over	the	following	 days.	The	muscle	
fiber	micro-	tears	are	believed	 to	be	the	underlying	 cause	of	muscle	soreness,	 which	is	
referred	 to	as	delayed onset of muscle soreness (DOMS) 	because	 its	onset	is	usually	
delayed	for	one	to	two	days.
Protein synthesis
The	body	uses	amino	acids	to	synthesize	 proteins.	 These	amino	acids	come	from	the	
amino acid pool ,	which	is	a	grand	mixture	 of	amino	acids	available	 in	the	cell	derived	
from	dietary	sources	or	the	degradation	 of	protein.	 The	information	 that	dictates	which	
amino	acids	are	needed,	 and	in	what	order	they	should	be	combined,	 is	contained	 in	
stretches	 of	DNA	called	genes.	When	a	protein	is	needed,	 the	process	of	protein	synthe-
sis	is	activated.	 As	shown	in	Figure 	9.5, 	the	first	step	in	protein	synthesis	 involves	copying	
or	transcribing	 the	DNA’s	code	from	the	gene	into	a	molecule	 of	messenger	 RNA	
(mRNA).	 This	process	is	called	 transcription .	The	mRNA	then	takes	this	information	
from	the	nucleus	of	the	cell	to	ribosomes	 in	the	cytosol	where	proteins	 are	made.	Here	
the	information	 in	mRNA	is	translated	 through	 another	 type	of	RNA,	called	transfer	
RNA	(tRNA).	Transfer	RNA	reads	the	code	and	delivers	the	needed	amino	acids	to	form	
a	polypeptide	 chain.	This	process	is	called	 translation .	One	by	one,	amino	acids	join	via	
peptide	 bonds	to	form	growing	 polypeptide	 chains.	When	translation	 is	completed,	
newly	formed	polypeptides	 detach	from	ribosomes	 and	undergo	 further	chemical	 modi-
fications	before	achieving	their	final	protein	structure	and	function.Table 9.2	Expected	nitrogen	balance	status	among	various	individuals
Examples Nitrogen intake Nitrogen output Nitrogen balance
Individuals	on	weight	loss	diet	or	with	
poor	nutrition	6.4	g 	8.0	g –1.6	g
Healthy	individuals	on	normal	diet 11.2	g 11.2	g 0	g
Pregnant	women,	children,	body	builders 12.8	g 10.4	g +2.4	g

204		 Nutrients metabolism
	 During	 the	synthesis	 of	a	protein,	 a	shortage	 of	one	needed	amino	acid	can	stop	
the	process.	 Just	as	on	an	assembly	 line,	if	one	part	is	missing,	 the	line	stops	–	a	dif-
ferent	part	cannot	be	substituted.	 If	the	missing	 amino	acid	is	nonessential	 amino	
acid,	it	can	be	synthesized 	in	the	body	and	protein	synthesis 	can	continue. 	If	the	
missing	amino	acid	is	an	essential	 amino	acid,	the	body	cannot	break	down	some	of	
its	own	proteins	 to	obtain	this	amino	acid.	If	an	amino	acid	cannot	be	supplied, 	
protein	 synthesis	 will	stop.	Animal	 foods	are	generally	 better	sources	 of	protein	
because	 they	provide	enough	of	all	the	amino	acids	needed	to	build	human	proteins. 	
Plant	sources	of	protein,	 however,	 are	generally	 low	on	one	or	more	of	the	essential 	
amino	acids	and	thus	are	not	the	preferred	 choice	if	someone	 is	seeking	a	rapid	gain	
in	muscle	mass.
Energy metabolism of amino acids
There	are	three	principal	 sources	of	amino	acids	for	energy	metabolism:	 (1)	dietary	
protein,	 (2)	free	amino	acid	pool,	and	(3)	endogenous 	tissue	protein.	 Dietary	protein	is	
a	relatively	 minor	source	of	amino	acids	because	it	is	not	a	common	 practice	to	consume	
a	large	protein	meal	prior	to	exercise.	 The	free	amino	acid	pool	existing	in	muscles	and	
blood	is	also	very	small	compared	 with	amino	acids	derived	from	the	degradation	 of	
tissue	protein.	 It	has	been	estimated	 that	the	intra-	muscular	 amino	acid	pool	constitutes	
less	than	1	percent	 of	the	metabolically	 active	amino	acids.	Consequently,	 the	most	
important	 source	of	amino	acids	comes	from	endogenous	 protein	breakdown	 (Dohm	
et al.	1987).
	 The	catabolism	 of	amino	acids	requires	 the	removal	of	the	amino	group	(the	nitrogen-
	containing 	portion)	by	transamination 	or	oxidative 	deamination. 	Transamination 	is	a	7UDQVFULSWLRQFRS\LQJ
RUWUDQVFULELQJWKH
'1$·VFRGHIURPWKH
JHQHLQWRDPROHFXOHRIPHVVHQJHU51$ P51$
7UDQVODWLRQWUDQVIHU
51$W51$UHDGLQJ
WKHFRGHDQGGHOLYHULQJ
WKHQHHGHGDPLQRDFLGV
WRIRUPDSRO\SHSWLGH
FKDLQ7UDQVFULSWLRQ'1$
P51$
7UDQVODWLRQ
Figure 9.5 	Protein	synthesis:	transcription	and	translation

Nutrients metabolism 		205
common	 route	for	the	exchange	 of	nitrogen	 in	most	tissues	including	 muscle	and	
involves	 the	transfer	 of	an	amine	from	an	amino	acid	to	another	 molecule.	 A	typical	
example	 is	where	the	amine	is	transferred	 from	glutamate	 to	pyruvate	 to	produce	
alanine,	 which	may	then	be	utilized	to	produce	 glucose	in	the	liver	via	a	process	called	
the	alanine	cycle,	as	shown	in	Figure 	9.2. 	The	process	of	deamination	 occurs	in	the	liver	
and	is	responsible	 for	converting	 the	nitrogen	 residue	into	waste	product	 urea	that	can	
be	excreted	from	the	kidneys.
	 The	remaining	 carbon	skeleton	 may	then	be	converted	 into	various	intermediates 	
of	the	Krebs	cycle	which	is	common 	to	both	carbohydrate 	and	fat	metabolism. 	As	
shown	in	Figure 	9.6, 	amino	acids	may	give	rise	to	pyruvate,	 acetyl	CoA,	and	Krebs	
cycle	intermediates,	 such	as	oxaloacetate,	 fumarate,	 succinyl–CoA,	 and	α-ketoglurate, 	
all	of	which	may	be	oxidized 	via	the	Krebs	cycle.	Another	way	by	which	amino	acids	
contribute	 to	energy	metabolism	 is	to	be	converted	 into	glucose	via	gluconeogenesis 	
and	this	glucose	is	then	used	for	generating 	energy	or	preventing 	hypoglycemia. 	This	
process	has	been	discussed	 above	in	the	context	of	deamination	 and	transamination. 	
As	shown	in	Figure 	9.6, 	alanine	is	first	produced	 from	pyruvate	 via	transamination	 in	
active	skeletal	muscle	and	then	travels	to	the	liver	via	circulation. 	Upon	entry	into	the	
liver,	alanine	becomes 	pyruvate 	via	deamination. 	Gluconeogenesis 	then	converts	the	
remaining	 carbon	skeleton	 of	alanine	into	glucose,	 which	then	enters	the	blood	for	
use	by	active	muscle.	This	gluconeogenic	 process	helps	in	maintaining	 blood	glucose	
homeostasis	 during	fasting	and	starvation.	 It	also	assists	in	prolonged	 exercise	 as	
additional	 energy	fuel.	It	has	been	estimated	 that	the	alanine–glucose	 cycle	can	
generate	 up	to	15	percent	 of	the	total	energy	requirement	 during	prolonged	 exercise	
(Paul	1989).
Alanine, cysteine,
glycine, serine,
threonimePyruvate
Acetyl-CoA
Citrate
Krebs
cycle
Succinyl-CoA
Isoleucine,
methionine,
valineFumarateOxaloacetate
Aspartate,
asparagine
Tyrosine,
phenylalanine�-ketoglurateArginine,
histidine,
glutamine,
prolineIsoleucine, leucine,
tryptophan,
phenylalanine,
tyrosine, lysine
Figure 9.6 		Major	metabolic	 pathways	 for	various	amino	acids	following	 removal	of	the	nitrogen	
group	by	transamination	or	deamination

206		 Nutrients metabolism
Metabolic role of branched- chain amino acids
Leucine,	 isoleucine,	 and	valine	are	the	three	branched-	 chain	amino	acids	(BCAAs)	 that	
have	attracted	 a	great	deal	of	attention	 in	terms	of	their	role	in	bioenergetics.	 They	are	
essential	 amino	acids	which	cannot	be	synthesized	 in	the	body.	Thus,	they	must	be	
replenished	 via	diet.	BCAAs	are	unique	in	that	they	are	catabolized	 mainly	in	the	skeletal	
muscle.	Like	other	amino	acids,	the	first	step	in	the	metabolism	 of	BCAAs	is	removal	 of	
the	amino	group	so	that	the	remaining	 carbon	skeleton	 may	be	further	oxidized.	 This	
transamination	 results	in	a	production	 of	glutamate,	 which	can	then	donate	a	nitrogen-	
containing	 portion	to	pyruvate	 to	form	alanine.	 The	oxidative	 pathway	 for	the	remain-
ing	carbon	skeleton	 takes	place	in	the	mitochondria.	 It	involves	 decarboxylation	 which	
removes	 a	carboxyl	 group	so	that	acetyl-	CoA	can	be	formed	for	use	in	the	Krebs	cycle	or	
gluconeogenesis.	 Supplementation	 of	BCAAs	has	been	claimed	to	enhance	 exercise	 per-
formance	 in	a	variety	of	ways.	They	can	(1)	serve	as	additional	 energy	fuel,	(2)	enhance	
protein	synthesis,	 (3)	prevent	or	attenuate	 the	excessive	 loss	of	protein,	 and	(4)	help	in	
improving	 the	function	 of	neurotransmitters,	 thereby	reducing	 the	feeling	of	fatigue.	
More	detailed	 information	 regarding	 the	efficacy	 of	using	BCAAs	for	performance	
enhancement	may	be	found	in	 Chapter	11.
Regulation of protein synthesis and degradation
Protein	synthesis	 and	degradation	 are	mainly	regulated	 by	hormonal	 secretion,	 which	can	
be	influenced	 under	many	circumstances	 such	as	exercise,	 stress,	and	dietary	feeding.	Glu-
cagon,	cortisol,	 and	catecholamines	 are	found	to	be	mainly	associated	 with	protein	
degradation,	 whereas	insulin,	growth	hormones,	 and	testosterone	 are	primarily	 linked	to	
protein	synthesis.	 Thus	far,	cortisol	has	been	considered	 the	most	potent	stimulator	 of	
protein	catabolism	 or	degradation	 (Graham	 and	Maclean	 1992,	Rooyackers	 and	Nair	
1997).	It	degrades	 tissue	protein	to	yield	amino	acids	for	glucose	synthesis	 in	the	liver	via	
gluconeogenesis. 	As	this	action	helps	generate	new	glucose	units,	its	role	during	exercise	
has	been	largely	investigated.	 Cortisol	secretion	 does	not	increase	 very	much	during	early	
phases	of	exercise	 even	when	exercise	 is	performed	 at	strenuous	 levels	(i.e.,	>75	percent	
VO2max).	However,	 as	severe	exercise	persists,	blood	cortisol	level	begins	to	rise.	An	appre-
ciable	increase	 in	blood	cortisol	level	has	been	reported	 to	occur	at	30	minutes	or	longer	
into	exercise.	 This	delayed	rise	in	cortisol	appears	to	be	just	in	time	because	muscle	glyco-
gen	is	likely	to	reduce	significantly	 during	strenuous	 exercise	 that	lasts	for	more	than	30	
minutes.	 Under	the	condition	 where	muscle	glycogen	 is	low,	an	increase	 in	cortisol	secre-
tion	will	assist	in	maintaining	 a	continuous	 energy	supply	and	glucose	homeostasis	 through-
out	exercise.	 In	addition	 to	promoting	 liver	gluconeogenesis,	 cortisol	also	stimulates 	
lipolysis	which	alleviates	the	body’s	dependence	on	its	stored	carbohydrates.
	 Insulin,	 growth	hormone,	 and	testosterone	 appear	to	be	the	most	influential	 hormones 	
mediating 	protein	synthesis. 	Insulin	is	known	for	its	role	in	regulating 	plasma	glucose	
homeostasis	 in	response	 to	hyperglycemia.	 However,	 in	addition	 to	its	effect	on	stimulating 	
blood	glucose	uptake	by	peripheral	 tissues,	insulin	also	promotes	 the	entry	of	circulating 	
amino	acids	into	certain	cells	such	as	skeletal	muscle	fibers	where	protein	synthesis	takes	
place.	As	such,	insulin	is	also	regarded	 as	an	anabolic	 hormone	 in	terms	of	protein	synthe-
sis.	Insulin	release	can	be	blunted	during	exercise	when	intensity	and	duration	surpass	
certain	thresholds. 	This	is	an	appropriate 	response 	in	that	a	decrease	in	insulin	favors	the	
mobilization	 of	glucose	from	the	liver	and	fatty	acids	from	adipose	tissue,	both	of	which	are	
necessary 	in	maintaining 	the	plasma	energy	supply	and	glucose	concentration. 	If	exercise	
were	associated 	with	an	increase	in	insulin,	blood	glucose	would	be	taken	up	into	the	
tissues	at	a	faster	rate,	leading	to	an	immediate	hypoglycemia.

Nutrients metabolism 		207
	 The	effect	of	growth	hormone	 on	protein	synthesis	 is	carried	out	by	increasing	 the	
membrane	 transport	 of	amino	acids	into	cells,	synthesis	 of	RNA	and	ribosomes,	 activity	
of	ribosomes,	 as	well	as	all	other	events	essential	 to	protein	synthesis.	 Growth	hormone	
administration	 has	also	been	linked	to	a	diminished	 amino	acid	oxidation	 (Rooyackers	
and	Nair	1997).	Growth	hormone	 can	act	indirectly	 via	enhanced	 hepatic	release	of	
somatomedins ,	which	are	carried	by	the	blood	to	target	tissues	where	they	induce	
growth-	promoting	 effects,	particularly	 in	cartilage	 and	bone.	Because	 the	somatomedins	
are	structurally	 and	functionally	 similar	to	insulin,	they	are	referred	 to	as	insulin- like 
growth factors .	It	is	particularly	 intriguing	 that	the	blood	level	of	growth	hormone	
increases	 during	vigorous	 exercise	 and	remains	elevated	 for	a	certain	time	after	exercise.	
This	elevation	 in	growth	hormone	 during	exercise	 has	been	found	to	function	 similarly	
as	cortisol	serving	as	a	lipolytic	hormone	 to	maintain	 blood	glucose	homeostasis.	 Growth	
hormone	 stimulates	 fat	breakdown	 and	indirectly	 suppresses	 carbohydrate	 utilization.	 A	
low	plasma	glucose	concentration	 can	serve	to	stimulate	 the	release	of	growth	hormone	
by	the	anterior	pituitary	gland.
	 Testosterone	 and	testosterone	 analogs	such	as	anabolic	 steroids	are	well	known	for	
their	anabolic	 effect	on	protein	metabolism.	 However,	 the	mechanism	 as	to	how	this	
hormone	 regulates	 protein	 metabolism	 remains	 elusive.	 The	fact	that	testosterone	
enhances	 protein	synthesis	 has	been	well	documented.	 It	remains	 less	certain	as	to	how	
this	anabolic	 response	 is	accomplished.	 It	has	been	argued	that	testosterone	 affects	
muscle	growth	by	binding	 to	receptors	 in	cell	nuclei	and	thus	enhancing	 ribonucleic	
acid	content.	 The	latter	substance	 is	necessary	 in	carrying	 out	protein	synthesis.	 There	is	
growing	 evidence	 to	suggest	 that	testosterone	 may	induce	muscle	hypertrophy	 by	
increasing	 the	number	 of	satellite	cells	in	the	skeletal	muscle	(Sinha-	Hikim	 et al.	2003).	
Testosterone	 may	also	increase	 levels	of	growth	hormone	 that	the	body	releases	 in	
response	 to	exercise.	 Like	testosterone,	 growth	hormone	 increases	 protein	synthesis	 and	
thus	muscle	growth.	With	regard	to	women,	progesterone	 seems	more	potent	in	stimu-
lating	protein	synthesis	 than	estrogen.	 Smith	 et al.	(2014)	demonstrated	 an	increase	 in	
protein	synthesis	 that	occurs	in	postmenopausal	 women	who	are	treated	with	progester -
one	replacement	but	not	with	estrogen	replacement.
Summary
•	 Carbohydrates	 and	fats	are	the	two	primary	 sources	of	energy.	Compared	 to	fats,	
carbohydrates	 provide	 energy	more	quickly,	 may	be	used	regardless	 of	whether	
there	is	oxygen,	 and	serve	as	the	sole	source	of	energy	for	the	central	nervous	
system.	It	must	also	be	available	 in	order	for	the	body	to	use	fats.	As	such,	carbohy-
drates	are	the	main	source	of	fuel	for	most	sporting	events.
•	 Muscle	 glycogen	 serves	as	an	initial	source	of	energy	at	the	start	of	strenuous	 exer-
cise.	As	exercise	 continues,	 degradation	 of	liver	glycogen	 will	increase	 its	contribu -
tion	by	providing	 additional	 glucose	for	use	by	muscle	and	to	prevent	hypoglycemia.	
The	liver	is	also	capable	 of	manufacturing	 new	glucose	in	an	effort	to	maintain	
glucose	homeostasis.
•	 Preparing	 carbohydrate	 and	fat	molecules	 for	final	entry	into	the	metabolic	 pathway	
is	an	important	 step	in	energy	metabolism.	 In	order	to	be	oxidized,	 both	glucose	
and	fatty	acid	need	to	be	converted	 into	acetyl-	CoA.	This	is	accomplished	 through	
glycolysis	 for	glucose	and	 ß–oxidation	 for	fatty	acid.	Both	glycolysis	 and	 ß–oxidation	
may	be	viewed	as	being	similar	in	that	these	pathways	 function	 to	ultimately	 produce	
such	“common”	molecules	of	acetyl-	 CoA.
•	 Oxidizing	 fat	depends	 on	the	level	of	exercise	 intensity.	 Unlike	what	is	believed,	
maximal	 fat	oxidation	 rate	occurs	at	moderate	 rather	than	low	intensity.	 This	is	

208		 Nutrients metabolism
because	fat	oxidation	 is	also	the	function	 of	absolute	 caloric	expenditure.	 It	is	found	
that	intensity	 near	one’s	lactate	threshold	 or	around	60	to	65	percent	VO2max	will	
elicit	maximal	fat	oxidation.
•	 Protein	 does	not	normally	 participate	 in	energy	metabolism	 and	therefore	 there	is	
no	such	storage	form	of	protein	used	for	energy	like	glycogen.	 However,	 under	the	
condition	 where	there	is	a	significant	 decrease	 in	bodily	carbohydrates,	 proteins	
may	be	used	as	fuel.	Proteins	 contribute	 to	energy	provision	 by	first	being	degraded	
into	amino	acids;	amino	acids	will	then	be	converted	 into	glucose	or	various	inter-
mediates	of	the	Krebs	cycle	in	order	to	fulfill	their	energetic	role.
•	 Leucine,	 isoleucine,	 and	valine	are	the	three	branched-	 chain	amino	acids,	and	
their	potential	 roles	include	(1)	serving	as	additional	 energy	fuel,	(2)	enhancing 	
protein	synthesis,	 (3)	preventing	 or	attenuating	 the	excessive	 loss	of	protein,	and/or	
(4)	helping	in	improving	 the	function	 of	neurotransmitters,	 thereby	reducing	 the	
feeling	of	fatigue.
•	 A	key	enzyme	that	regulates	 muscle	glycogen	 degradation	 is	glycogen	 phosphory -
lase.	This	enzyme	is	further	influenced	 by	the	level	of	ATP,	epinephrine	 concentra -
tion,	and	glycogen	 stores.	Increases	 in	ADP	and	AMP	levels,	epinephrine	 release,	
and	muscle	glycogen	 concentration	 have	been	found	to	stimulate	 glycogen	 phos-
phorylase,	thereby	glycogenolysis.
•	 Phosphofructokinase	 (PFK)	and	isocitrate	 dehydrogenase	 (IDH)	are	the	rate-	
limiting	 enzymes	 that	control	glycolysis	 and	the	Krebs	cycle,	respectively.	 The	rate-	
limiting	enzymes	 are	ones	found	earlier	in	the	metabolic	 pathway	 and	are	sensitive	
to	the	level	of	energy	substrate	availability.
•	 Utilization	 of	carbohydrates	 and	fats	are	not	two	separate	 processes.	 Instead	they	are	
coordinated,	 and	the	utilization	 of	one	substrate	 would	be	affected	by	the	availability	
of	the	other.	The	interaction	 between	 carbohydrates	 and	fats	may	be	explained	 by	
the	Randle	cycle	which	encompasses	 chemical	 pathways	 that	illustrate	 a	potential	
“competition”	between	carbohydrates	and	fats	for	being	used	as	fuel.
•	 The	 primary	function	 of	glucose	output	from	the	liver	is	to	maintain	 normal	blood	
glucose	concentration,	 although	 some	of	this	can	also	be	taken	by	muscle	tissue	for	
use	as	energy.	The	hepatic	glucose	output	is	well	regulated	 by	insulin	and	glucagon	
so	that	there	will	not	be	a	mismatch	 between	 glucose	output	and	utilization	 under	
normal	 circumstances.	 However,	 during	high-	intensity	 exercise	 hepatic	 glucose	
output	can	outpace	utilization,	thereby	causing	hyperglycemia.
•	 Both	 cortisol	and	growth	hormone	 serve	as	a	stimulus	 to	lipolysis	and	gluconeogen -
esis	during	prolonged	 exercise	 when	carbohydrate	 stores	decrease	 significantly.	
Such	catabolic	 action	is	important	 in	that	it	helps	prevent	hypoglycemia	 and	muscle	
glycogen	depletion.
•	 Glucagon,	 cortisol,	 and	catecholamines	 are	found	to	be	mainly	associated	 with	cata-
bolism	and	protein	degradation.	 Insulin,	growth	hormones,	 and	testosterone	 are	
the	most	influential	hormones	mediating	anabolism	and	protein	synthesis.
Case study: determining fuel utilization during exercise
Steve	is	a	49-year-	old	man	who	is	in	the	process	of	training	 for	his	first	marathon	 to	
celebrate	 his	fiftieth	birthday.	 He	had	some	previous	 recreational	 running	 experience	
and	completed	 several	10-kilometer	 races	and	two	half-	marathons.	 At	5'7"	(170	cm)	and	
184	lb	(84	kg),	he	realizes	that	losing	weight	and	body	fat	will	help	him	accomplish	 his	
goal	of	running	 a	marathon.	 He	participated	 in	an	indirect	 calorimetry	 study	at	a	
nearby	university.	 In	this	study,	he	underwent	 a	series	of	metabolic	 tests	at	rest	and	

Nutrients metabolism 		209
Review questions
	1	 Why	is	carbohydrate	often	referred	as	the	most	preferable	source	of	energy?
	2	 How	is	the	use	of	energy	fuels	influenced	by	exercise	intensity	and	duration?
	3	 In	what	circumstance	will	protein	be	used	as	an	energy	fuel?
	4	 Define	the	term	“gluconeogenesis.”	How	does	this	process	differ	from	“glycogenolysis”?
	5	 What	is	 β–oxidation?	How	does	this	process	differ	from	lipolysis?
	6	 Describe	how	protein	joins	energy	metabolism.
	7	 Why	are	branched-	 chain	amino	acids	considered	 ergogenic	 and	used	widely	in	
sports?
	8	 Briefly	describe	the	theory	of	the	Randle	cycle.
	9	 How	would	you	prescribe	 exercise	 intensity	 and	duration	 that	will	help	maximize	
energy	expenditure	and	fat	utilization?
10	 Define	the	term	Fatmax.
11	 Why	is	high-	 intensity	exercise	not	recommended	for	weight	loss?
12	 What	 would	be	the	major	energy	fuel	(i.e.,	carbohydrates,	 fats,	and	proteins)	 used	
under	each	of	the	following	conditions?
a	 After	a	meal
b	 Between	meals
c	 Prolonged	starvation
d	 Exercise	at	low	intensity
e	 Exercise	at	high	intensity.while	running	 on	a	treadmill	 to	learn	more	about	his	energy	expenditure	 and	fuel	uti-
lization	at	different	running	paces.	 Table	9.3	records	his	results	from	the	study.
Table 9.3	Results	of	Steve’s	metabolic	tests
Running 
pace 
(mile/hr)Heart rate (b/min)RER Percent energy from fatPercent energy from CHOTotal energy output (kcal/min)Fat use (kcal/min)CHO (kcal/min)
Rest
	70 0.7777.2 22.8 	1.5 1.2 0.3
6.0 130 0.8742.5 57.5 11.8 5.0 6.8
6.5 139 0.8935.8 64.2 13.5 4.8 8.7
7.0 145 0.9129.2 70.8 14.4 4.2 10.2
7.5 155 0.9322.6 77.4 15.3 3.5 11.8
8.0 166 0.9516.0 84.0 16.4 2.6 13.8
Questions
•	 How	does	the	percentage	 of	energy	from	carbohydrates	 and	carbohydrate	 oxidation	
rate	(kcal∙min–1)	change	 as	running	 pace	increases?	 Do	these	changes	 make	
sense?	Why?
•	 The	data	show	that	as	Steve	runs	faster,	the	percentage	 of	energy	from	fat	decreases,	
while	the	number	 of	kcal∙min–1	from	fat	use	increases	 initially	and	then	decreases.	
Why	is	there	such	a	divergent	response?
•	 If	Steve	was	able	to	maintain	 a	running	 pace	at	7.5	miles/hour	 throughout	 the	
entire	marathon	 race,	according	 to	this	data	how	many	carbohydrates	 would	he	
have	used	both	in	terms	of	kcal/min	and	g/min?

210		 Nutrients metabolism
13	 What	would	be	the	major	energy	system	used	during	each	of	the	following	events?
a	 100	m	sprint	run
b	 100	m	swimming
c	 800	m	run
d	 10	km	run
e	 Marathon.
14	 A	subject	consumes	 oxygen	at	2	liters/min	 and	expires	carbon	dioxide	at	1.8	liters/
min	while	running	on	a	treadmill.	Please	answer	the	following	questions:
a	 How	many	calories	per	minute	is	this	person	expending?
b	 If	he	walks	at	this	pace	for	30	minutes,	what	is	his	total	caloric	expenditure?
c	 How	much	of	the	energy	is	derived	from	carbohydrates?
d	 How	many	grams	of	carbohydrate	does	he	use?
Suggested reading
	1	 Achten	 J,	Jeukendrup	 AE	(2004)	Optimizing	 fat	oxidation	 through	 exercise	 and	diet.	
Nutrition,	20:	716–727.
 Interventions aimed at increasing fat metabolism could potentially reduce the symptoms of meta -
bolic diseases such as obesity and type- 2 diabetes and may have tremendous clinical relevance. 
Therefore, this article aims to help readers understand various factors, including those associ -
ated with exercise and diets, that increase or decrease fat oxidation.
	2	 Hargreaves	 MH,	Snow	R	(2001)	Amino	acids	and	endurance	 exercise.	 International 
Journal of Sport Nutrition and Exercise Metabolism ,	11:	133–145.
 Protein degradation during exercise is an area that is under- addressed and stimulates many 
debates. This article provides a comprehensive review on how amino acids are degraded in order 
to generate energy aside from carbohydrates and fats. Ergogenic properties of some amino acids 
are also discussed.
	3	 Holloszy	 JO,	Kohrt	WM,	Hansen	PA	(1998)	The	regulation	 of	carbohydrate	 and	fat	
metabolism	during	and	after	exercise.	 Front Bioscience ,	3:	D1011–D1027.
 This classic review complements the textbook in that it provides more detailed and evidence- 
based information that can help us understand how carbohydrates and fats are metabolized and 
how these metabolic processes are regulated during and after exercise.
Glossary
ß–oxidation 	a	sequence	 of	reactions	 that	reduce	a	long	chain	fatty	acid	into	multiple	
2-carbon	units	in	the	form	of	acetyl	CoA.
Amino acid pool 	a	grand	mixture	 of	amino	acids	available	 in	the	cell	derived	from	
dietary	sources	or	the	degradation	of	protein.
Branched- chain amino acids 	amino	acids	that	have	side-	chains	with	a	branch	(a	carbon	
atom	bound	to	more	than	two	other	carbon	atoms),	such	as	leucine,	isoleucine	 and	
valine.
Carnitine 	a	carrier	protein	that	helps	transport	 long-	chain	fatty	acids	from	cytoplasm	
into	mitochondria.
Carnitine palmitoyl transferase (CPT) 	an	enzyme	 that	facilitates	 the	action	of	
carnitine.
Delayed onset of muscle soreness 	muscle	soreness	 caused	by	muscle	fiber	tears	and	
usually	felt	in	muscles	several	hours	to	days	after	unaccustomed	or	strenuous	exercise.
Endogenous 	produced	or	growing	within	an	organism,	tissue,	or	cell.

Nutrients metabolism 		211
Epinephrine 	a	hormone	from	adrenal	medulla	that	facilitates	glycogen	degradation.
Fatmax	the	exercise	intensity	where	fat	oxidation	rate	peaks.
Gluconeogenesis 	a	metabolic	 pathway	 that	involves	 the	use	of	non-	glucose	molecules	
such	as	amino	acids	or	lactate	for	the	production	of	glucose	in	the	liver.
Glycogen phosphorylase 	a	key	enzyme	 that	regulates	 glyogenolysis	 or	glycogen	
degradation.
Hepatic glucose output 	glucose	release	from	liver	glycogen	degradation.
Hypoglycemia 	a	condition	that	occurs	when	blood	glucose	concentration	is	too	low.
Insulin- like growth factors 	also	referred	to	as	somatomedins	(see	Somatomedins).
Isocitrate dehydrogenase 	a	rating-	limiting	enzyme	that	regulates	Krebs	cycle.
Lactate threshold 	an	intensity	 above	which	the	production	 of	lactate	will	increase	
sharply.
Lipase	an	enzyme	responsible	 for	breakdown	 of	triglycerides	 and	found	in	the	liver,	
adipose	tissue,	muscle,	as	well	as	blood	vessels.
Malonyl- CoA	an	intermediate	in	fatty	acid	synthesis	that	regulates	fat	utilization.
Nitrogen balance 	a	measure	 that	assesses	the	relationship	 between	 the	dietary	intake	of	
protein	and	protein	that	is	degraded	and	excreted.
Phosphofructokinase 	a	rate-	limiting	enzyme	that	regulates	glycolysis.
Somatomedins 	a	group	of	hormones	that	promote	cell	growth	and	division.
Transcription 	a	process	that	involves	copying	or	transcribing	 the	DNA’s	code	from	the	
gene	into	a	molecule	of	messenger	RNA.
Translation 	a	process	in	which	transfer	RNA	or	tRNA	reads	the	code	and	delivers	the	
needed	amino	acids	to	form	a	polypeptide	chain.

10 Guidelines for designing a healthy and 
competitive diet
Contents
Key terms 212
Healthful nutrition for fitness and sport 213
Nutrition recommendations around the world 214
•	 The	United	Kingdom	 214
•	 Australia	 215
•	 Canada	 215
•	 The	United	States	 217
Using	dietary	reference	standards	for	constructing	a	diet	 218
•	 Dietary	reference	standards	 218
•	 Planning	a	nutritious	diet	using	MyPyramid	 222
•	 Use	of	food	labels	in	assisting	dietary	planning	 226
Dietary	considerations	for	physically	active	individuals	and	athletes	 229
•	 Calorie	needs	 229
•	 Carbohydrate,	fat,	and	protein	needs	 231
•	 Vitamin	and	mineral	needs	 232
Special	planning	for	sports	performance	 235
•	 Pre-	competition	meal	 235
•	 Glycogen	supercompensation	 237
•	 Carbohydrate	supplementation	during	exercise	 238
•	 Dietary	supplementation	for	recovery	 239
Summary	 240
Case	study	 241
Review	questions	 242
Suggested	reading	 242
Glossary	 243
Key terms
•	 Acceptable	macronutrient	distribution	 •	 Adequacy
•	 Adequate	intake	levels	 •	 Balance
•	 Daily	value	 •	Dietary Guidelines for Americans

Designing a healthy, competitive diet   213
•	 Dietary	Reference	Intakes	 •	 Discretionary	calories
•	 Essential	nutrients	 •	 Estimated	average	requirements
•	 Estimated	energy	requirements	 •	 Female	athlete	triad
•	 Glycogen	supercompensation	 •	 Health	claims
•	 Moderation	 •	 Nonessential	nutrients
•	 Nutrient	content	claims	 •	 Nutrient	density
•	 Recommended	dietary	allowances	 •	 Tolerable	upper	intake	levels
•	 Variety
Healthful nutrition for fitness and sport
As	noted	in	previous	 chapters,	 six	classes	of	nutrients	 are	considered	 necessary	 in	human	
nutrition:	 carbohydrates,	 lipids,	proteins,	 vitamins,	 minerals,	 and	water.	Within	most	of	
these	general	classes	(notably	 proteins,	 vitamins,	 and	minerals)	 are	a	number	 of	specific	
nutrients	 necessary	 to	sustain	life.	These	nutrients	 are	collectively	 considered	 as	essential 
nutrients .	In	nutrition,	 essential	 nutrients	 are	those	that	the	body	needs	but	cannot	
produce	 at	all	or	cannot	produce	 in	adequate	 quantities.	 For	example,	 we	must	obtain	
essential	 amino	acids	from	food	we	eat	regularly	 in	order	to	synthesize	 the	proteins	 we	
need.	About	40	nutrients	 are	currently	 known	to	be	essential	 for	human	beings.	 Non­
essential nutrients 	are	ones	the	body	can	make	in	sufficient	 amounts	 when	they	are	
needed.	Most	foods	contain	a	mixture	of	essential	and	nonessential	nutrients.
	 There	 are	a	set	of	dietary	principles	 that	must	followed	 in	order	to	maintain	 a	suffi-
cient	intake	of	essential	 nutrients.	 These	principles	 include	 variety, balance, and modera -
tion.	Variety	emphasizes	 the	importance	 of	choosing	 foods	from	a	variety	of	food	sources	
to	create	a	diet	that	contains	 sufficient	 amounts	 of	all	the	required	 nutrients.	 A	variety	of	
foods	is	best	because	 no	one	food	meets	all	your	nutrient	 needs.	For	example,	 meats	
provide	protein	and	iron,	but	litter	calcium	and	no	vitamin	C,	and	milk	contains	 calcium	
but	very	little	iron.	A	diverse	diet	also	makes	mealtimes	 more	interesting.	 Eating	nutri-
tious	meals	need	never	be	boring.
 Balance,	also	referred	 to	as	proportionality,	 involves	consuming	 enough,	 but	not	too	
much,	of	each	type	of	food.	For	example,	 meats,	fish,	and	iron	are	rich	in	iron	but	poor	in	
calcium.	 Conversely,	 milk	and	milk	products	 are	rich	in	calcium	but	poor	in	iron.	There-
fore,	one	should	use	a	balanced	 approach;	 that	is,	to	consume	 some	meats	and	some	milk	
products	 in	order	to	obtain	both	essential	 minerals,	 and	to	also	save	some	space	for	other	
foods,	such	as	grains,	vegetables,	 and	fruits,	since	a	diet	consisting	 of	meat	and	milk	alone	
would	not	be	adequate.	 Balance	also	refers	to	matching	 energy	intake	(calories	 consumed) 	
with	energy	expenditure	 (calories	 burned)	 over	time.	A	sustained	 imbalance	 between	
energy	intake	and	energy	expenditure	can	lead	to	fluctuations	in	body	weight.
 Moderation ,	or	not	consuming	 too	much	of	a	particular	 food,	is	also	important,	 espe-
cially	when	it	comes	to	controlling	 caloric	intake	and	maintaining	 a	healthy	body	weight.	
For	example,	 foods	rich	in	fat	and	sugar	provide	enjoyment	 and	energy	but	relatively	 few	
nutrients.	 They	promote	 weight	gain	when	eaten	in	excess.	A	person	practicing	 modera-
tion	would	eat	such	foods	only	on	occasion	 and	would	regularly	 select	foods	low	in	fat	
and	sugar.	This	practice	 also	improves	 nutrient	 density.	 Nutrient density  is defined as 
the	amount	of	nutrients	 that	are	in	a	food	relative	to	its	energy	content.	 Foods	with	high	
nutrient	 densities	 or	nutrient-	 dense	foods	provide	high	amounts	 of	essential	 nutrients	
relative	to	the	amount	 of	calories.	 Eating	in	moderation	 requires	 paying	attention	 to	
portion	size	and	to	choose	foods	that	contains	 adequate	 essential	 nutrients	 in	conjunc-
tion	with	reasonably	 low	calories.	 Foods	that	are	notably	low	in	nutrient	 density,	such	as	
potato	chips,	candies,	 and	colas,	are	sometimes	 referred	 to	as	empty	calorie	foods	in	that	
they	deliver	only	energy	with	little	or	no	essential	nutrients.

214  Designing a healthy, competitive diet
Nutrition recommendations around the world
The	earliest	nutrition	 recommendations	 can	be	traced	back	to	the	late	eighteenth	
century	when	the	Industrial	 Revolution	 in	England	 caused	a	rise	in	urban	populations	
with	large	numbers	 of	homeless	 people.	Such	an	issue	of	poverty	prompted	 the	govern-
ment	to	launch	their	quest	to	explore	ways	of	keeping	 these	people	alive	and	maintain -
ing	the	workforce.	 As	a	result,	a	dietary	standard	 was	established	 on	what	the	average	
working	 individual	 ate	in	a	typical	day.	This	method	 of	estimating	 nutrient	 needs	was	
used	until	World	War	I	when	the	British	Royal	Society	made	specific	recommendations	
about	foods	that	would	not	only	sustain	life	but	would	also	protect	health.	Based	on	the	
evidence	 that	several	diseases	associated	 with	the	consumption	 of	poor	diets	were	caused	
by	nutritional	 deficiencies,	 a	food	committee	 of	the	British	Royal	Society,	besides	recom-
mending	 70	to	80	grams	of	protein	and	3000	kilocalories	 of	food	energy	for	the	“average	
man,”	stated	that	every	diet	should	include	a	certain	proportion	 of	fresh	fruits	and	green	
vegetables,	 and	that	diets	of	all	children	 should	contain	a	considerable	 proportion	 of	
milk	(Leitch	1942).	Since	then,	the	governments	 of	many	countries	 have	established	
their	own	sets	of	dietary	recommendations	 based	on	nutritional	 problems	 and	dietary	
patterns	 specific	to	their	populations	 and	interpretations	 of	their	scientists.	 In	general,	
the	differences	 between	 guidelines	 from	country	to	country	are	small	and	they	all	reflect	
the	dietary	principles	 of	variety,	balance,	 and	moderation.	 The	following	 are	brief	
descriptions	of	dietary	standards	adopted	by	selected	countries.
The United Kingdom
The	United	Kingdom	 published	 its	first	set	of	dietary	guidelines	 in	1994,	and	they	have	
been	regularly	 updated	 since	then.	The	national	 food	guide,	then	known	as	“The	
balance	of	good	health,”	 was	launched	 in	1994.	It	was	revised	and	named	“The	eatwell	
plate”	in	2007	and	the	most	recent	model,	 The Eatwell Guide ,	was	published	 in	March	
2016.	 The Eatwell Guide 	has	been	accepted	 across	government	 departments	 and	by	Food	
Standards	 Scotland,	 the	Welsh	Government,	 and	by	the	Food	Standards	 Agency	in	
Northern	 Ireland.	The	guidelines	 are	directed	 at	the	general	population	 from	the	age	of	
2.	It	is	recommended	 that	children	 between	 the	ages	of	2	and	5	should	start	moving	
toward the diet depicted in The Eatwell Guide .
 The Eatwell Guide 	is	the	key	nutrition	 policy	tool	for	health	professionals	 and	others	
working	 to	improve	 dietary	health.	It	is	supported	 by	eight	tips	for	eating	well:	(1)	Base	
your	meals	on	starchy	foods.	(2)	Eat	lots	of	fruit	and	vegetables.	 (3)	Eat	more	fish	–	
including	 a	portion	of	oily	fish	each	week.	(4)	Cut	down	on	saturated	 fat	and	sugar.	
(5)	Eat	less	salt	–	no	more	than	6g	a	day	for	adults.	(6)	Get	active	and	maintain	 a	healthy	
weight.	(7)	Don’t	get	thirsty.	(8)	Don’t	skip	breakfast.	 The Eatwell Guide 	is	a	visual	repres-
entation	 of	how	different	 foods	contribute	 toward	a	varied	and	nutritious	 diet.	It	is	based	
on	five	food	groups	and	shows	the	proportion	 that	each	food	group	should	contribute	
to	a	healthy	balanced	diet.	Specifically,	 The Eatwell Guide 	suggests	the	following:
•	 Eat	at	least	five	portions	of	a	variety	of	fruit	and	vegetables	every	day.
•	 Base	 meals	on	potatoes,	 bread,	rice,	pasta,	or	other	starchy	carbohydrates;	 choosing	
wholegrain	versions	where	possible.
•	 Have	 some	dairy	or	dairy	alternatives	 (such	as	soya	drinks);	 choose	lower	fat	and	
lower	sugar	options.
•	 Eat	some	beans,	pulses,	fish,	eggs,	meat,	and	other	proteins	 (including	 two	portions	
of	fish	every	week,	one	of	which	should	be	oily).
•	 Choose	unsaturated	oils	and	spreads,	and	eat	in	small	amounts.

Designing a healthy, competitive diet 		215
•	 Drink	six	to	eight	cups/glasses	of	fluid	a	day.
•	 If	consuming	 foods	and	drinks	high	in	fat,	salt,	or	sugar,	have	these	less	often	and	in	
small	amounts.
Australia
The	National	 Health	and	Medical	 Research	 Council	released	 the	new	Australian	 dietary	
guidelines	 in	February	 2013.	This	is	the	fourth	edition	of	dietary	guidelines	 in	Australia	
(first	edition	1982,	second	edition	1992,	third	edition	2003).	The	review	process	of	the	
Australian	 dietary	guidelines	 was	led	by	a	committee	 of	the	National	 Health	and	Medical	
Research	 Council	 and	leading	experts	in	the	field	of	nutrition,	 public	health,	industry,	
and	consumer	 issues.	This	revision	 was	also	jointly	partnered	 with	and	funded	by	the	
Commonwealth	 Department	 of	Health.	The	guidelines	 are	based	on	the	best	available	
scientific	 evidence.	 The	Department	 of	Health	has	ongoing	 responsibility	 for	imple-
menting	 the	guidelines.	 The	Australian	 dietary	guidelines	 are	aimed	at	the	healthy	popu-
lation	aged	over	2.
	 The	document	 includes	 specific	information	 for	population	 subgroups	 such	as	preg-
nant	women,	 children,	 or	older	adults	where	there	are	significant	 differences	 in	nutri-
tional	requirements	 when	compared	 to	the	general	population.	 Australia	 uses	a	guide	to	
healthy	eating	that	visually	represents	 on	a	plate	the	proportion	 of	the	five	food	groups	
for	recommended	 consumption	 each	day.	The	food	groups	included	 on	the	plate	are:	
grain	cereal	foods;	vegetables	 and	legumes/beans;	 fruits;	lean	meats	and	poultry,	 fish,	
eggs,	tofu,	nuts,	and	seeds;	reduced	 fat	dairy	products	 and/or	alternatives.	 Outside	 of	
the	plate	there	is	the	advice	to	drink	plenty	of	water,	and	the	recommendation	 to	use	
oils	in	small	amounts.	 Alcohol	 and	highly	processed	 foods	(high	in	sugar,	fat,	and	
sodium)	 should	be	consumed	 only	sometimes	 and	in	small	amounts.	 The	guidelines	
include	five	core	recommendations	 which	aim	to	direct	people	to	the	types	and	amounts	
of foods they should consume:
•	 To	achieve	and	maintain	 a	healthy	weight,	be	physically	 active,	and	choose	amounts	
of	nutritious	food	and	drinks	to	meet	energy	needs.
•	 Enjoy	a	wide	variety	of	nutritious	foods	from	these	five	groups	every	day:
•	 plenty	of	vegetables,	including	different	types	and	colors,	and	legumes/beans
•	 fruit
•	 grain	 (cereal)	foods,	mostly	wholegrain	 and/or	high	cereal	fiber	varieties,	 such	as	
breads,	cereals,	rice,	pasta,	noodles,	polenta,	couscous,	oats,	quinoa,	and	barley
•	 lean	meats	and	poultry,	fish,	eggs,	tofu,	nuts	and	seeds,	and	legumes/beans
•	 milk,	 yoghurt,	 cheese,	and/or	their	alternatives,	 mostly	reduced	 fat	(reduced	
fat	milks	are	not	suitable	for	children	under	the	age	of	2).
•	 Drink	plenty	of	water.
•	 Limit	 intake	of	foods	containing	 saturated	 fat,	added	salt,	added	sugars,	and	
alcohol.
•	 Encourage,	support,	and	promote	breastfeeding.
•	 Care	for	your	food;	prepare	and	store	it	safely.
Canada
The	first	set	of	Canadian	 dietary	guidelines	 was	published	 in	1942	and	they	have	been	
regularly	 updated	 since	then.	The	current	version	of	Eating Well 	with	Canada’s	 Food	
Guide	was	published	 in	2007.	The	Federal	 Ministry	 of	Health	(Health	 Canada)	 is	

216		 Designing a healthy, competitive diet
responsible	 for	developing	 national	 dietary	guidelines	 in	consultation	 with	Canadians	
from	coast	to	coast,	including	 non-	governmental	 organizations,	 academics,	 health	
professionals,	 government,	 industry,	 and	consumers.	 To	develop	the	2007	version	of	the	
guidelines	 Health	Canada	worked	closely	with	three	advisory	 groups:	an	external	 Food	
Guide	Advisory	 Committee,	 an	Interdepartmental	 Working	 Group,	and	the	Expert	
Advisory	 Committee	 on	Dietary	Reference	 Intakes.	 The	messages	 of	the	guidelines	 are	
aimed	at	the	general	population	aged	2	and	older.
	 Canada’s	 Food	Guide	is	illustrated	 using	an	image	of	a	rainbow.	 The	rainbow	 graphic	
displays	the	four	food	groups	with	examples	 of	nutritious	 foods	in	each	of	the	groups.	It	
includes	 recommendations	 for	the	quantity	of	food	to	eat	for	different	 age	and	sex	groups	
and	directional	 statements	 for	each	food	group	to	guide	the	quality	of	food	choices.	Other	
messaging 	addresses 	advice	for	specific	life	stages,	added	fats	and	oils,	foods	and	beverages	
to	limit,	water,	the	importance 	of	variety,	physical	activity,	and	nutrition 	labeling.	The	
following	are	the	more	specific	messages	conveyed	from	the	guidelines:
•	 Eat	at	least	one	dark	green	and	one	orange	vegetable	each	day.
•	 Go	for	dark-	 green	vegetables	such	as	broccoli,	romaine	lettuce,	and	spinach.
•	 Go	for	orange	vegetables	such	as	carrots,	sweet	potatoes,	and	winter	squash.
•	 Enjoy	vegetables	and	fruit	prepared	with	little	or	no	added	fat,	sugar	or	salt.
•	 Have	vegetables	steamed,	baked	or	stir	fried	instead	of	deep	fried.
•	 Have	vegetables	and	fruit	more	often	than	juice.
•	 Make	at	least	half	of	your	grain	products	wholegrain	each	day.
•	 Eat	 a	variety	of	wholegrains	 such	as	barley,	brown	rice,	oats,	quinoa,	 and	
wild	rice.
•	 Enjoy	wholegrain	breads,	oatmeal,	or	wholewheat	pasta.
•	 Choose	grain	products	that	are	low	in	fat,	sugar,	or	salt.
•	 Compare	the	Nutrition	Facts	table	on	labels	to	make	wise	choices.
•	 Enjoy	 the	true	taste	of	grain	products;	 when	adding	sauces	or	spreads	use	small	
amounts.
•	 Drink	skim,	1	percent	or	2	percent	milk	each	day.
•	 Drink	500	 ml	(2	cups)	of	milk	every	day	for	adequate	vitamin	D.
•	 Drink	fortified	soy	beverages	if	you	do	not	drink	milk.
•	 Select	lower	fat	milk	alternatives.
•	 Compare	the	Nutrition	Facts	table	on	yogurts	or	cheeses	to	make	wise	choices.
•	 Have	meat	alternatives	such	as	beans,	lentils,	and	tofu	often.
•	 Eat	 at	least	two	food	guide	servings	 of	fish	each	week.	Health	Canada	 provides	
advice	for	limiting	exposure	to	mercury	from	certain	types	of	fish.
•	 Choose	fish	such	as	char,	herring,	mackerel,	salmon,	sardines,	and	trout.
•	 Select	lean	meat	and	alternatives	prepared	with	little	or	no	added	fat	or	salt.
•	 Trim	the	visible	fat	from	meats;	remove	the	skin	from	poultry.
•	 Use	 cooking	 methods	 such	as	roasting,	 baking,	or	poaching	 that	require	little	
or	no	added	fat.
•	 If	you	eat	luncheon	 meats,	sausages,	 or	prepackaged	 meats,	choose	those	lower	
in	salt	(sodium)	and	fat.

Designing a healthy, competitive diet 		217
•	 Enjoy	a	variety	of	foods	from	the	four	food	groups.
•	 Satisfy	thirst	with	water!
•	 Drink	 water	regularly.	 It’s	a	calorie-	free	way	to	quench	your	thirst.	Drink	more	water	
in	hot	weather	or	when	you	are	very	active.
•	 Include	 a	small	amount	(30	to	45	ml,	2	to	3	tbsp)	of	unsaturated	 fat	each	day.	This	
includes	oil	used	for	cooking,	salad	dressings,	margarine,	and	mayonnaise.
•	 Use	vegetable	oils	such	as	canola,	olive,	and	soybean.
•	 Choose	soft	margarines	that	are	low	in	saturated	and	trans	fats.
•	 Limit	butter,	hard	margarine,	lard,	and	shortening.
The United States
The	United	States	published	 the	eighth	edition	of	its	Dietary Guidelines for Americans in 
January	2016.	The	 Dietary Guidelines for Americans 	is	jointly	issued	every	five	years	by	the	
U.S.	Department	 of	Health	and	Human	 Services	 (HHS)	and	the	U.S.	Department	 of	
Agriculture	 (USDA).	 The	guidelines	 are	developed	 through	 a	process	that	has	become	
increasingly	 more	robust	and	transparent	 with	each	edition.	The	process	to	update	the	
Dietary Guidelines 	occurs	in	two	stages:	(1)	reviewing	 the	current	scientific	 evidence	 by	an	
Advisory	 Committee	 consisting	 of	prestigious	 researchers	 and	scientists	 in	the	fields	of	
nutrition,	 health,	and	medicine;	 and	(2)	developing	 the	Dietary Guidelines for Americans 
by	a	group	of	experts	from	both	HHS	and	USDA	who	have	extensive	 knowledge	 of	nutri-
tion	and	health	science,	 federal	nutrition	 recommendations,	 and	program	 implemen-
tation.	Recommendations	 from	the	Dietary Guidelines 	are	intended	 for	Americans	 aged	2	
and	older,	including	 those	at	increased	 risk	of	chronic	disease.	The	focus	of	the	Dietary 
Guidelines 	is	disease	prevention	–	they	are	not	intended	to	treat	disease.
	 The	2015	to	2020	 Dietary Guidelines for Americans 	provides	 five	overarching	 guidelines	
that	encourage	healthy	eating	patterns:
•	 Follow	 a	healthy	eating	pattern	across	the	life	span.	All	food	and	beverage	 choices	
matter.	Choose	a	healthy	eating	pattern	at	an	appropriate	 calorie	level	to	help	
achieve	and	maintain	 a	healthy	body	weight,	support	nutrient	 adequacy,	 and	reduce	
the	risk	of	chronic	disease.
•	 Focus	 on	variety,	nutrient	 density,	 and	amount.	 To	meet	nutrient	 needs	within	
calorie	limits,	choose	a	variety	of	nutrient-	 dense	foods	across	and	within	all	food	
groups	in	recommended	amounts.
•	 Limit	 calories	 from	added	sugars	and	saturated	 fats	and	reduce	sodium	intake.	
Follow	an	eating	pattern	low	in	added	sugars,	saturated	 fats,	and	sodium.	 Cut	back	
on	foods	and	beverages	 higher	in	these	components	 to	amounts	 that	fit	within	
healthy	eating	patterns.
•	 Shift	 to	healthier	 food	and	beverage	 choices.	Choose	nutrient-	dense	foods	and	bever-
ages	across	and	within	all	food	groups	in	place	of	less	healthy	choices.	Consider	 cul-
tural	and	personal	preferences	to	make	these	shifts	easier	to	accomplish	and	maintain.
•	 Support	 healthy	eating	patterns	 for	all.	Everyone	 has	a	role	in	helping	to	create	and	
support	 healthy	eating	patterns	 in	multiple	 settings	 nationwide,	 from	home	to	
school	to	work	to	communities.
A	healthy	eating	pattern	includes	the	following:
•	 A	variety	of	vegetables	 from	all	of	the	subgroups:	 dark	green,	red	and	orange,	
legumes	(beans	and	peas),	starchy,	and	others.

218		 Designing a healthy, competitive diet
•	 Fruits,	especially	whole	fruits.
•	 Grains,	at	least	half	of	which	are	wholegrains.
•	 Fat-	free	or	low-	fat	dairy,	including	 milk,	yogurt,	cheese,	 and/or	 fortified	 soy	
beverages.
•	 A	variety	of	protein	foods,	including	 seafood,	 lean	meats	and	poultry,	eggs,	legumes	
(beans	and	peas),	and	nuts,	seeds,	and	soy	products.
•	 Oils.
Using dietary reference standards for constructing a diet
It	is	not	enough	to	simply	know	how	much	nutrients	 and	energy	a	person	consumes;	 a	
complete	 assessment	 of	one’s	nutritional	 status	must	go	one	step	further	and	determine	
whether	 these	amounts	 are	likely	to	be	adequate.	 For	this	purpose,	 the	Institute	 of	Medi-
cine	of	the	National	 Academy	 of	Science	has	developed	 a	set	of	nutritional	 standards	 to	
be	used	for	assessing	 the	adequacy	 of	a	person’s	 diet.	These	standards	 are	collectively	
called the Dietary Reference Intakes 	(DRIs).	These	standards	 were	first	published	 in	
1943,	when	malnutrition	 in	the	United	States	was	generally	 due	to	under-	nutrition,	 and	
nutrition	 deficiencies	 were	common.	 DRIs	were	established	 by	highly	qualified	 scientists	
and	represent	 our	best	knowledge	 of	recommended	 intake	for	all	the	essential	 nutrients.	
Because	 nutrient	 requirements	 differ	by	sex,	age,	and	life	stage,	such	as	pregnancy	 and	
lactation,	 DRI	values	are	stratified	 by	each	of	these	variables.	 Both	the	United	States	and	
Canada	recognize	the	DRIs	as	their	official	set	of	dietary	reference	standards.
Dietary reference standards
The	DRIs	represent	 a	set	of	four	types	of	nutrient	 intake	reference	 standards	 used	to	
assess	and	plan	dietary	intake.	They	include:	 (1)	Estimated Average Requirements  
(EARs);	 (2)	Recommended Dietary Allowances 	(RDAs);	 (3)	Adequate Intake Levels 
(AIs),	and	(4)	Tolerable Upper Intake Levels 	(ULs).	The	DRIs	also	include	calculations	
for Estimated Energy Requirements 	(EERs),	which	may	be	used	to	assess	whether	 one’s	
energy	intake	is	sufficient,	 and	 Acceptable Macronutrient Distribution 	(AMDRs),	 which	
provide	a	recommended	 distribution	 of	macronutrients	 in	terms	of	energy	consump -
tion.	Note	that	DRIs	are	only	estimates	 of	average	nutrient	 requirements	 in	a	healthy	
population,	 so	your	level	may	be	lesser	or	greater	than	the	average.	 DRIs	are	provided	 in	
Appendix	 C.	The	following	 is	a	brief	description	 of	each	of	these	specific	types	of	
nutrient	intake	reference	standards.
Estimated Average Requirement (EARs)
The	EAR	for	a	particular	 nutrient	 is	the	average	daily	amount	that	will	maintain	 a	spe-
cific	biochemical	 or	physiological	 function	 in	half	of	the	healthy	people	of	a	given	age	
and	gender	group.	In	other	words,	if	a	woman	consumes	 the	EAR	value	for	a	particular	
nutrient,	 she	is	consuming	 the	amount	that	meets	the	requirement	 of	about	50	percent	
of	the	all	women	in	the	same	age	group.	A	look	at	enough	individuals	 reveals	that	their	
requirements	 fill	a	symmetrical	 and	normal	distribution,	 with	most	near	the	midpoint	 or	
the	mean	(as	shown	in	 Figure	10.1)	and	only	a	few	at	the	extremes.
	 The	EARs	are	useful	in	research	 settings	to	evaluate	 whether	 a	group	of	people	are	
likely	to	be	consuming	 adequate	 amounts	 of	a	nutrient.	 However,	 it	may	not	be	appro-
priate	to	use	the	EARs	as	recommended	 dietary	intake	goals	for	a	specific	individual.	
This	is	because	 even	though	the	EARs	are	differentiated	 by	age	and	gender,	the	exact	
requirements	of	people	of	the	same	age	and	gender	are	likely	to	be	different.

Designing a healthy, competitive diet 		219
Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA)
The	RDA	represents	 the	average	daily	amount	 of	a	nutrient	 considered	 adequate	 to	
meet	the	known	nutrient	 needs	of	nearly	all	healthy	people	of	a	given	age	and	gender	
group.	If	people	were	to	follow	the	EARs	and	consumed	 exactly	the	average	requirement	
of	a	given	nutrient,	 half	of	the	population	 would	develop	 deficiencies	 of	that	nutrient.	
Recommendations	 should	be	set	high	enough	above	the	EARs	to	meet	the	needs	of	most	
healthy	people.	 Small	amounts	 above	the	daily	requirement	 do	no	harm,	whereas	
amounts	 below	the	requirement	 lead	to	health	problems.	 Therefore,	 to	ensure	that	the	
nutrient	 RDA	meets	the	needs	of	as	many	people	as	possible,	 the	RDAs	are	set	near	the	
top	end	of	the	range	of	the	population’s	estimated	requirements.
	 Referring	 to	Figure 	10.1, 	an	RDA	is	set	near	the	right	end	of	the	curve.	Such	a	point	can	
be	calculated	 mathematically	 so	that	it	covers	~98	percent	 of	a	population.	 Almost	
everyone,	 including	 those	whose	needs	are	higher	than	the	average,	will	be	included	 if	they	
meet	this	dietary	goal.	In	this	context,	RDAs	have	been	used	as	nutrient	 intake	goals	for	all	
individuals. 	They	include	a	built-	in	safety	margin	to	help	assure	adequate 	nutrient	intake	
in	the	population. 	Unless	specifically 	noted,	RDAs	do	not	distinguish 	between	whether	the	
nutrient	is	found	in	foods,	added	to	foods,	or	consumed	in	supplement	form.
Adequate Intake level (AI)
AI	is	the	average	daily	amount	of	a	nutrient	 that	appears	sufficient	 to	maintain	 a	specific	
criterion.	 It	was	a	value	used	as	a	guide	for	nutrient	 intake	when	scientific	 evidence	 was	
insufficient	 to	establish	 an	EAR	and	thus	to	accurately	 set	an	RDA.	In	other	words,	the	
establishment	 of	an	AI	instead	of	an	RDA	for	a	nutrient	 means	that	more	research	 is	
needed.	 Similar	to	RDAs,	AIs	are	meant	to	be	used	as	nutrient	 intake	goals	for	indi-
viduals.	However,	 their	differences	 are	noteworthy.	 An	RDA	for	a	given	nutrient	 is	sup-
ported	by	enough	 scientific	 evidence	 to	expect	that	the	needs	of	almost	all	healthy	
people	will	be	met.	An	AI,	on	the	other	hand,	is	determined	 based	primarily	 on	scient-
ific	judgments	 because	sufficient	 scientific	 evidence	 is	lacking.	The	percentage	 of	people	
covered	by	an	AI	is	unknown;	 an	AI	is	expected	 to	exceed	average	requirements,	 but	it	
may	cover	more	or	fewer	people	than	an	RDA	would	if	an	RDA	could	be	determined.	EAR
Meany
x
Daily requirement for a specific nutrient (units/day) Number of peopleRDA
Figure 10.1 		Comparison	 of	estimated	 average	requirements	 (EARs)	and	recommended	
dietary	allowances	(RDAs)

220		 Designing a healthy, competitive diet
An	example	 of	a	nutrient	 with	an	AI	instead	of	an	RDA	is	calcium.	 More	research	 is	
required	 to	be	able	to	establish	 RDAs	for	this	mineral.	 You	can	see	which	nutrients	 have	
AI	versus	RDA	values	by	examining	the	DRI	tables	in	Appendix	C.
Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (ULs)
The	RDA	and	AI	values	have	been	established	 to	prevent	deficiencies	 and	decrease	 risk	of	
chronic	diseases.	However, 	avoiding	the	other	end	of	the	nutritional 	status	continuum 	–	
nutrient	 overconsumption	 or	toxicity	–	is	also	important.	 As	such,	ULs	have	been	estab-
lished	as	the	maximum	 daily	amount	 of	a	nutrient	 that	appears	safe	for	most	healthy	
people	and	beyond	which	there	is	an	increased	 risk	of	adverse	health	effects.	ULs	are	not	
to	be	used	as	target	intake	levels	or	goals.	Instead,	they	provide	limits	for	those	who	take	
supplements 	or	consume 	large	amounts	of	fortified	foods	because	some	nutrients 	are	
harmful	at	very	high	intakes.	Note	that	scientific	 data	are	insufficient	 to	provide	UL	values	
for	all	nutrients.	 The	lack	of	ULs	for	a	particular	 nutrient	 indicates	 the	need	for	caution	in	
consuming	high	intakes	of	that	nutrient;	it	does	not	mean	that	high	intakes	pose	no	risk.
Estimated Energy Requirements (EERs)
EERs	represent	 the	average	 energy	intakes	needed	 to	maintain	 weight	in	a	healthy	
person	of	a	particular	 age,	sex,	weight,	height,	and	physical	 activity	level.	EERs	are	
similar	to	EARs	in	that	they	are	set	at	the	average	of	the	population’s	 estimated	 require-
ments	(Figure 	10.2). 	In	contrast	 to	the	RDA	and	AI	values	for	nutrients,	 the	recom-
mendation	 for	energy	is	not	generous.	 Balance	is	the	key	to	the	energy	recommendation.	
Enough	 energy	is	needed	to	sustain	a	healthy	and	active	life,	but	too	much	energy	can	
result	in	weight	gain	and	obesity.	Because	 any	amount	 in	excess	of	needs	results	in	
weight	gain,	there	are	neither	RDAs	nor	ULs	for	energy.
	 The	EER	equations	 for	adults	of	a	healthy	weight	are	provided	 as	follows,	and	others	
may	be	found	in	Appendix	D.
Adult	man:	EER	 =	662	–	[9.53	×	age	(y)]	+	PA	×	[15.91	×	wt	(kg)	+	539.6	×	Ht	(m)]
Adult	woman:	EER	 =	354	–	[6.91	×	age	(y)]	+	PA	×	[9.36	×	wt	(kg)	+	726	×	Ht	(m)]
EER
Meany
x
Daily requirement (kcal/day)Number of people
Figure 10.2 		Estimated	 energy	requirement	 (EER).	Note	the	similarity	 between	 EER	and	
EAR	shown	in	Figure	10.1

Designing a healthy, competitive diet   221
In	this	equation,	 PA	refers	to	physical	activity	level,	which	is	categorized	 as	sedentary,	 low	
active,	active,	or	very	active.	Table 	10.1 	shows	examples	 of	these	activity	categories	 and	
their	corresponding	 values.	The	following	 is	a	sample	calculation	 for	determining	
an	EER:
John	Doe	is	a	35-year-	old	man	who	weighs	154	pounds,	 is	5	feet	9	inches	tall,	and	
has	a	low	activity	level,	which	is	equal	to	1.12	according	 to	Table	10.1.	His	EER	is	
calculated as follows:
Age	=	35	years
Physical	activity	(PA)	 =	1.11
Weight	(wt)	 =	154	pounds	 =	70	kg	(154	+	2.2)
Height	(Ht)	 =	5'9"	=	69"	=	1.75	m	(69	×	0.0254)
EER	=	662	–	[9.53	×	age	(y)]	+	PA	×	[15.91	×	wt	(kg)	+	539.6	×	Ht	(m)]	  
	 	 	=	662	–	[9.53	×	35]	+	1.11	×	[15.91	×	70	+	539.6	×	1.75]  
	 	 	=	662	–	333.55	+	1.11	×	[1113.7	+	944.3]	=	662–333.55	 +	2284.38	=	2613	kcal/day
Acceptable Macronutrient Distribution Ranges (AMDRs)
People	don’t	eat	energy	directly;	 they	derive	energy	from	energy-	containing	 nutrients	
such	as	carbohydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins.	 Each	of	these	nutrients	 contributes	 to	the	
total	energy	intake,	and	those	contributions	 vary	in	relation	to	each	other.	The	AMDRs	
reflect	the	ranges	of	intakes	for	each	class	of	energy	source	that	are	associated	 with	
reduced	 risk	of	chronic	disease	while	providing	 adequate	 intakes	of	essential	 nutrients.	
The	AMDRs,	 which	are	expressed	 as	percentages	 of	total	energy	intake,	are	listed	below	
and	may	be	found	in	Appendix	C:
•	 Carbohydrate:	45	to	65	percent	of	total	energy.
•	 Protein:	10	to	35	percent	of	total	energy.
•	 Lipids:	20	to	35	percent	of	total	energy.
To	meet	daily	energy	and	nutrient	 needs	while	minimizing	 risks	for	developing	 chronic	
diseases	 such	as	heart	disease	and	type	2	diabetes,	 an	average	adult	should	consume	
between	 45	and	65	percent	 of	total	calories	 from	carbohydrates.	 This	relatively	 wide	
Table 10.1	Physical	activity	(PA)	categories	and	values
Activity level 
of categoryPhysical activity 
valueMajor action
Men Women
Sedentary 1.001.00 No	physical	activity	aside	from	that	needed	for	independent	
living
Low	active 1.111.12 1.5–3	miles/day	at	2–4	miles/hour	in	addition	to	the	light	
activity	associated	with	typical	day-to-day	life
Active 1.251.27 3–10	miles/day	at	2–4	miles/hour	in	addition	to	the	light	
activity	associated	with	typical	day-to-day	life
Very	active 1.481.45 10	more	miles/day	at	2–4	miles/hour	in	addition	to	the	light	
activity	associated	with	typical	day-to-day	life

222  Designing a healthy, competitive diet
range	provides	 for	flexibility,	 in	recognition	 that	both	the	high-	carbohydrate/low-	 fat	diet	
of	Asian	peoples	 and	the	relatively	 high-	fat	diet	of	people	from	the	Mediterranean	
region	with	its	high	monounsaturated	 fatty	acid	olive	oil	content,	 contribute	 to	good	
health.	Acceptable	 lipid	intake	ranges	between	 20	and	35	percent	of	caloric	intake.	This	
range	is	consistent	 with	the	30	percent	limit	set	by	the	American	 Heart	Association,	 the	
American	 Cancer	Society,	and	National	 Institutes	 of	Health.	It	is	believed	 that	very	low	
fat	intake	combined	 with	high	intake	of	carbohydrate	 tends	to	lower	HDL-	cholesterol	
and	raise	triglyceride	 levels.	On	the	other	hand,	high	intake	of	dietary	fat	coupled	 with	
increased	 total	caloric	intake	contributes	 to	obesity	and	its	related	medical	 complica -
tions.	Moreover,	 high-	fat	diets	are	usually	associated	 with	an	increase	 in	saturated	 fatty	
acid	intake	and	LDL-	cholesterol,	 which	further	potentiates	 coronary	 heart	disease	risk.	
Recommended	 protein	intake	ranges	between	 10	and	30	percent	of	total	calories,	 and	
this	range	is	broad	enough	 to	cover	the	protein	needs	of	all	individuals	 regardless	 of	
their	age,	gender,	and	training	status.
	 The	DRIs	have	many	uses.	They	provide	a	set	of	standards	 that	may	be	used	to	plan	
diets,	to	assess	the	adequacy	 of	diets,	and	to	make	judgments	 about	deficient	 or	excessive	
intakes	for	individuals	 and	populations.	 For	example,	 they	may	be	used	as	a	standard	 for	
meals	prepared	 for	schools,	for	hospitals,	 and	for	government	 feeding	programs	 for	the	
elderly.	They	may	be	used	to	determine	 standards	 for	food	labeling	 and	to	develop	prac-
tical	tools	for	diet	planning.	 They	may	also	be	used	to	evaluate	 the	nutritional	 adequacy	
of	the	foods	consumed	 by	an	individual	 or	population	 that	may	be	of	health	concern.	
Each	of	the	DRI	categories	 serves	a	unique	purpose.	 For	example,	 the	EARs	are	most	
appropriately	 used	to	develop	 and	evaluate	 nutrition	 programs	 for	groups	such	as	
schoolchildren.	 The	RDAs	or	AIs	(if	an	RDA	is	not	available)	 may	be	used	to	set	goals	
for	individuals.	 The	ULs	help	guard	against	the	overconsumption	 of	nutrients	 and	to	
keep	nutrient	intakes	below	the	amounts	that	increase	the	risk	of	toxicity.
Planning a nutritious diet using MyPyramid
The	first	publication	 with	regard	to	the	official	dietary	guidelines	 can	be	traced	back	to	
more	a	century	ago	when	the	U.S.	Department	 of	Agriculture	 (USDA),	 which	works	
both	to	optimize	 the	nation’s	 agricultural	 productivity	 and	to	promote	 a	nutritious	 diet,	
published	 its	first	set	of	nutritional	 recommendations	 for	Americans.	 Since	this	publica-
tion	there	have	been	a	succession	 of	versions,	 all	designed	 to	translate	 nutrient	 intake	
recommendations	 into	guidelines	 for	dietary	planning.	 In	1980,	the	USDA	and	the	U.S.	
Department	 of	Health	and	Human	Services	(DHHS)	 jointly	issued	a	new	form	of	dietary	
recommendations called Dietary Guidelines for Americans ,	which	provided	 specific	advice	
about	how	good	dietary	habits	can	promote	 health	and	reduce	the	risk	for	major	chronic	
disease.	These	guidelines	 were	revised	about	every	five	years,	and	the	latest	version	was	
published	 in	2015	and	was	accompanied	 by	an	updated	 version	of	the	federal	food	guide	
system	called	MyPyramid	 aimed	to	help	people	put	the	recommendations	 of	the	dietary	
guidelines	into	practice.
Dietary Guidelines for Americans
The	2015	 Dietary Guidelines for Americans 	identify	41	key	recommendations,	 of	which	23	
are	for	the	general	public	and	18	are	for	special	populations.	 They	are	grouped	 into	
nine	general	topics:
•	 Adequate	nutrient	intake	within	calorie	needs.
•	 Weight	management.

Designing a healthy, competitive diet   223
•	 Physical	activity.
•	 Specific	food	groups	to	encourage.
•	 Fats.
•	 Carbohydrates.
•	 Sodium	and	potassium.
•	 Alcoholic	beverages.
•	 Food	safety.
The	2015	 Dietary Guidelines for Americans 	are	available	 at	www.healthierus.gov/dietary  
guidelines.	In	general	the	dietary	guidelines	recommend	that	we:
•	 Consume	 a	variety	of	nutrient-	 dense	foods	and	beverages	 within	and	among	the	
basic	food	groups	identified	 in	the	new	version	of	the	food	guide	pyramid,	 while	
choosing	 foods	that	limit	the	intake	of	saturated	 and	trans	fats,	cholesterol,	 added	
sugars,	salt,	and	alcohol	 (if	used).	Foods	to	emphasize	 are	vegetables,	 fruits,	
legumes,	wholegrains,	and	fat-	 free	or	low-	 fat	milk	or	equivalent	milk	products.
•	 Maintain	 body	weight	in	a	healthy	range	by	balancing	 calorie	intake	from	foods	and	
beverages	 with	calories	expended.	 For	the	latter,	engage	in	at	least	30	minutes	 of	
moderate-	 intensity	 physical	 activity,	above	usual	activity,	at	work	or	home	on	most	
days	of	the	week.
•	 Practice	 food	handling	 when	preparing	 food.	This	includes	 cleaning	 hands,	food	
contact	surfaces,	 and	fruits	and	vegetables	 before	preparation	 and	cooking	 foods	to	
a	safe	temperature	to	kill	micro-	 organisms.
To	follow	the	Dietary	Guidelines,	 one	must	keep	in	mind	the	five	diet-	planning	 prin-
ciples:	(1)	adequacy,	(2)	balance,	(3)	nutrient	density,	(4)	moderation,	and	(5)	variety.
 Adequacy 	means	that	diet	provides	 sufficient	 energy	and	enough	of	all	the	nutrients	
to	meet	the	needs	of	healthy	people.	For	example,	 each	day	the	body	loses	some	iron,	so	
people	have	to	replace	it	by	eating	foods	that	contain	iron.	Otherwise,	 they	may	develop	
the	symptoms	 of	iron-	deficient	 anemia	such	as	feeling	weak,	tired,	and	having	frequent	
headaches.
MyPyramid: a menu- planning tool
To	help	people	put	recommendations	 of	the	Dietary	Guidelines	 into	practice,	 the	USDA	
has	established	 its	newest	food	guidance	 system	called	MyPyramid	 that	replaces	 the	
USDA	Food	Guide	Pyramid	 published	 in	1992	(www.mypyramid.gov).	 This	most	current	
version	of	MyPyramid	 is	entitled	“Steps	to	a	Healthy	You,”	which	is	reflected	 in	the	image	
of	a	person	climbing	 the	pyramid	 (Figure	10.3).	It	provides	 a	more	“individualized”	
approach	 to	improving	 diet	and	lifestyle	than	previous	 guides.	The	MyPyramid	 symbol	
represents	 the	recommended	 proportion	 of	foods	from	each	food	group	to	create	a	
healthy	diet.	Physical	 activity	is	a	new	element	 in	the	pyramid.	 It	sends	a	clear	message	
that	consumers	 should	choose	the	right	amounts	 and	types	of	food	to	balance	their	daily	
physical	activity.
	 Several	 key	elements	 of	the	MyPyramid	 symbol	are	worth	noting.	As	mentioned	
earlier,	physical	activity	is	emphasized.	 Balancing	 energy	intake	with	energy	expenditure	
is	a	major	component	 of	MyPyramid.	 Six	of	the	food	groups,	namely	grains,	vegetables,	
fruits,	oils,	dairy	products,	 and	meats	and	beans,	are	represented	 in	different	 colors,	
each	with	different	 widths	on	the	MyPyramid	 symbol.	MyPyramid	 recommends	 that	we	
choose	foods	in	approximate	 proportion	 to	the	base	widths	of	the	bands.	Moderate	
intake	of	solid	fats	and	added	sugars	is	represented	 by	the	narrowing	 of	each	food	

224  Designing a healthy, competitive diet
group’s	 stripe	from	bottom	to	top.	The	narrowing	 pattern	of	the	color	bands	from	
bottom	to	top	also	indicates	 that	the	more	active	you	are,	the	more	of	these	foods	can	fit	
into	your	diet.
	 To	put	MyPyramid	 into	action,	you	need	first	to	estimate	 your	calorie	needs	using	the	
method	 for	determining	 EER.	Once	you	have	determined	 the	calorie	allowance	 appro-
priate	for	you,	you	can	then	use	the	data	in	Table 	10.2 	to	discover	 how	that	calorie	allow-
ance	corresponds	 to	the	recommended	 numbers	 of	servings	 from	each	food	group.	
Overall,	MyPyramid	 translates	 the	latest	nutrition	 advice	into	12	separate	 pyramids	 based	
on	calorie	needs	(1000	to	3200	 kcal).
	 Close	 attention	 should	be	paid	to	the	stated	serving	size	for	each	food	group	when	
following	 MyPyramid.	 This	will	help	control	the	portion	size	and	total	caloric	intake.	
The	following	 are	the	commonly	 used	household	 units	that	are	equivalent	 to	one	serving	
size	for	each	of	the	six	food	groups	used	by	MyPyramid.
•	 Grains:	 1	slice	of	bread,	1	cup	of	ready-	to-eat	breakfast	 cereal,	or	1/2	cup	of	cooked	
rice,	pasta,	or	cereal.
•	 Vegetables:	 1	cup	of	raw	or	cooked	vegetables	 or	vegetable	 juice,	or	2	cups	of	raw	
leafy	greens.
•	 Fruits:	1	cup	of	fruit,	100	percent	fruit	juice,	or	1/2	cup	of	dried	fruit.
•	 Milks:	1	cup	of	milk	or	yogurt,	1.5	 oz	of	natural	cheese,	or	2	 oz	of	processed	cheese.
•	 Meats	 and	beans:	1	oz	of	meat,	poultry,	or	fish,	1	egg,	1	tablespoon	 of	peanut	butter,	
1/4	cup	of	cooked	dry	beans,	or	1/2	 oz	of	nuts	or	seeds.
•	 Oils:	1	teaspoon	of	any	oil	from	plants	or	fish	that	is	liquid	at	room	temperature.0\3\UDPLG
67(3672$ +($/7+,(5<28
*5$,16 9(*(7$%/(6 )58,76 0,/.0($7	
%($162,/0\3\UDPLGJRY$SHUVRQFOLPELQJVWHSV
UHPLQGVFRQVXPHUVWREHSK\VLFDOO\DFWLYHHDFKGD\
*UHDWHULQWDNHVRIJUDLQVYHJHWDEOHVIUXLWDQGPLONDUHHQFRXUDJHGE\WKHEURDGEDVHVDWWKHERWWRP&RORUVRIWKHS\UDPLGLOOXVWUDWHYDULHW\HDFKFRORUUHSUHVHQWVRQHRIWKHILYHIRRGJURXSVSOXVRQHIRURLOV'LIIHUHQWEDQGZLGWKVVXJJHVWWKHSURSRUWLRQDOFRQWULEXWLRQRIHDFKIRRGJURXSWRDKHDOWK\GLHW
1DUURZVOLYHUVRIFRORUDWWKHWRSLPSO\PRGHUDWLRQLQIRRGVULFKLQVROLGIDWVDQGDGGHGVXJDUV
7KHEURDGEDVHVDWWKHERWWRPUHSUHVHQWQXWULHQWGHQVHIRRGVWKDWVKRXOGPDNHXSWKHEXONRIWKHGLHW
Figure 10.3 	MyPyramid:	Steps	to	a	Healthier	You
Source:	USDA.

Table 10.2	MyPyramid	recommendations	or	daily	food	consumption	based	on	calorie	needs
Calorie level 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000 2200 2400 2600 2800 3000 3200
Fruits 1 cup 1 cup 1	1/2	cups 1	1/2	cups 1	1/2	cups 2 cups 2 cups 2 cups 2 cups 2	1/2	cups 2	1/2	cups 2	1/2	cups
Vegetables11 cup 1	1/2	cups 1	1/2	cups 2 cups 2	1/2	cups 2	1/2	cups 3 cups 3 cups 3	1/2	cups 3	1/2	cups 4 cups 4 cups
Grains23	oz 4	oz 5	oz 5	oz 6	oz 6	oz 7	oz 8	oz 9	oz 10	oz 10		oz 10	oz
Meats	and	beans 2	oz 3	oz 4	oz 5	oz 5	oz 5	1/2	oz6	oz 6	1/2	oz6	1/2	oz7	oz 7	oz 7	oz
Milk32 cups 2 cups 2 cups 3 cups 3 cups 3 cups 3 cups 3 cups 3 cups 3 cups 3 cups 3 cups
Oils43 tsp 4 tsp 4 tsp 5	tsp 5	tsp 6	tsp 6	tsp 7	tsp 8	tsp 8	tsp 10	tsp 11 tsp
Notes
1		Vegetables	 are	divided	into	five	subgroups:	 dark	green,	orange,	legumes,	 starchy,	and	other.	A	variety	of	vegetables	 should	be	eaten,	especially	 green	and	orange	
vegetables.
2	At	least	half	of	the	grain	servings	should	be	wholegrain	varieties.
3	Most	of	the	milk	servings	should	be	fat	free	or	low	fat.
4	Limit	solid	fats	such	as	butter,	stick	margarine,	shortening,	and	meat	fat,	as	well	as	foods	that	contain	these	fats.

226		 Designing a healthy, competitive diet
If	interested,	 you	may	consider	 using	the	website	at	www.mypyramid.gov.	 This	website	
provides	 the	interactive	 technology	 that	will	allow	consumers	 to	obtain	dietary	recom-
mendations	 specific	to	their	age,	gender,	height,	weight,	and	level	of	physical	 activity.	It	
includes	 several	important	 features:	 MyPyramid	 Menu	Planner,	 Inside	MyPyramid,	
MyPyramid	 Tracker,	 and	MyFoodapedia.	 MyPyramid	 Menu	Planner	 provides	 a	brief	
estimate	 of	what	and	how	much	food	a	person	should	eat	from	the	different	 food	groups	
based	on	each	individual	 profile.	Inside	MyPyramid	 provides	 in-	depth	information	 for	
every	food	group,	including	 recommended	 daily	amounts	 in	commonly	 used	measures	
such	as	cups	and	ounces,	with	examples	 and	everyday	 tips.	The	section	also	includes	
recommendations	 for	choosing	 healthy	oils,	 discretionary calories ,	and	physical	 activity.	
The	discretionary	 calories	refer	to	the	calories	allowed	from	food	choices	rich	in	added	
sugars	and	solid	fat.	MyPyramid	 Tracker	allows	users	to	assess	their	diet	quality	and	phys-
ical	activity	status	by	comparing	 a	day’s	worth	of	foods	eaten	to	the	guidance	 provided	 by	
MyPyramid.	 Messages	 with	regard	to	nutrition	 and	physical	 activity	are	provided	 based	
on	the	need	to	maintain	 current	weight	or	to	lose	weight.	MyFoodapedia	 gives	users	
quick	access	to	searching	 for	calories	and	MyPyramid	 food	groups	for	a	particular	 food.	
This	section	also	allows	comparison	between	any	two	foods.
Use of food labels in assisting dietary planning
Food	labels	are	another	 tool	that	may	be	used	in	diet	planning.	 They	are	designed	 to	
help	consumers	 make	healthy	food	choices	by	providing	 information	 about	the	nutrient	
composition	 of	foods	and	about	how	a	food	fits	into	the	overall	diet.	Today,	nearly	all	
foods	sold	in	stores	must	be	in	a	package	 that	has	a	label	containing	 the	following	
information:	 (1)	the	product	 name,	(2)	name	and	address	 of	the	manufacturer,	
(3)	amount	 of	product	 in	the	package,	 (4)	ingredients	 listed	in	descending	 order	by	
weight,	and	(5)	Nutrition	 Facts	panel.	Of	special	interest	to	many	people	is	the	Nutrition	
Facts	panel,	which	is	a	required	 component	 of	most	food	labels.	Understanding	 how	to	
read	a	food	label	is	important	in	making	healthy	food	choices.
Nutrition facts
The	nutrition	 information	 section	of	the	label	is	entitled	“Nutrition	 Facts”	(Figure 	10.4). 	
In	this	section,	the	serving	size	is	listed	in	common	 household	 and	metric	measures,	 and	
is	based	on	a	standard	 list	of	serving	sizes	designed	 to	be	representative	 of	the	serving	
sizes	which	people	choose.	In	other	words,	serving	sizes	on	the	Nutrition	 Facts	panel	
must	be	consistent	 among	similar	foods.	The	use	of	standard	 serving	sizes	allows	com-
parisons	 to	be	made	easily	among	products.	 For	example,	 comparing	 the	energy	content	
of	different	 types	of	crackers	 is	simplified	 because	 all	packages	 list	energy	values	for	a	
standard	serving	size	of	about	30	grams	and	tell	you	the	number	of	crackers	per	serving.
	 The	serving	size	on	the	label	is	followed	 by	the	number	 of	servings	per	container.	 The	
label	must	then	list	the	total	kilocalorie	 (or	calorie	on	food	labels),	kilocalories	 from	fat,	
total	fat,	saturated	 fat,	cholesterol,	 sodium,	total	carbohydrates,	 dietary	fiber,	sugars,	and	
proteins.	 The	amounts	 of	these	nutrients	 are	given	per	serving,	and	most	are	listed	as	a	
percentage	 of	a	standard	 called	the	daily value .	The	percentage	 of	the	daily	value	
(%	DV)	is	usually	given	for	each	nutrient	 per	serving	and	is	based	on	a	2000-kilocalorie	
diet.	For	example,	 if	a	food	provides	 10	percent	of	the	daily	value	for	dietary	fiber,	then	
the	food	provides	 10	percent	 of	the	recommended	 daily	intake	for	dietary	fiber	in	a	
2000-kilocalorie	 diet.	Daily	values	may	not	be	as	applicable	 to	those	who	require	
considerably	more	or	less	than	2000	kilocalories	per	day.	Daily	dalues	are	mostly	set	at	or	
close	to	the	highest	RDA	value	or	related	nutrient	 standard	 seen	in	the	various	age	and	
gender	categories	for	a	specific	nutrient	(Appendix	E).

Designing a healthy, competitive diet 		227
	 Many	 manufactures	 list	the	daily	values	set	for	dietary	components	 such	as	fat,	choles-
terol,	and	carbohydrate	 on	the	Nutrition	 Facts	panel.	This	can	be	useful	as	a	reference	
point.	As	noted	above,	they	are	based	on	a	2000-kilocalorie	 diet;	if	the	label	is	large	
enough,	 amounts	 based	on	2500	kilocalories	 are	listed	as	well	for	total	fat,	saturated	 fat,	
cholesterol,	 sodium,	 fiber,	total	carbohydrate,	 and	dietary	fiber.	Daily	values	help	con-
sumers	determine	how	a	food	fits	into	their	overall	diet.
Exceptions to food labeling
Foods	such	as	raw	fruits	and	vegetables,	 fish,	meats,	and	poultry	are	currently	 not	
required	 to	have	a	Nutrition	 Facts	label.	However,	 many	grocers	and	some	meat	packers	
have	voluntarily	 chosen	to	provide	their	customers	 with	information	 about	these	prod-
ucts.	Protein	deficiency	 is	not	a	public	health	concern	 in	the	United	States.	Therefore,	
disclosure	 of	the	percentage	 daily	value	for	protein	is	not	mandatory	 on	foods	for	people	
over	4	years	of	age.	If	the	percentage	 daily	value	for	protein	is	given	on	a	label,	the	Food	
and	Drug	Administration	 (FDA)	requires	 that	the	product	 be	analyzed	 for	protein	
quality.	This	procedure	 is	expensive	 and	time-	consuming,	 so	many	companies	 opt	not	to	
list	a	percentage	 daily	value	for	protein.	 However,	 labels	on	food	for	infants	and	children	
under	4	years	of	age	must	include	the	percentage	daily	value	for	protein.Serving Siz e 1 cookie (28g)
Serving P er Container 15
Amount P er ServingNutrition F acts
Calories 120
Vitamin A 4% •
•Vitamin C 0%
Calcium 2%
Calories:
Less than
Less thanLess than
Less than65g
20g300mg
2,400mg
300g25g80g25g300mg
2,400mg
375g30gTotal Fa t
 Saturated Fa t
Cholester ol
SodiumTotal Carboh ydrate
 Dietary Fiber
Calories per gram:  Fat 9  •  Carboh ydrate 4  •  Pr otein 42,000 2,500*Percent Dail y Values are based on a 2,000
calorie diet.  Your dail y values ma y be higher or
lower depending on y our calorie needsIron 4%Total F at 5g 8%
15%
8%
4%
6%
3%Cholester ol 25mg
Sodium 100mg
Total Carboh ydrate 18g
Protein 1gSaturated F at 3g
Dietar y Fiber less than 1 gra m
Sugars 11gCalories fr om F at 45
% Dail y Value*
Figure 10.4 	A	sample	Nutrition	Facts	panel

228		 Designing a healthy, competitive diet
Nutrient content claims
Food	labels	may	also	contain	 additional	 nutrition-	 related	information.	 For	example,	
Nutrient content claims 	describe	 the	level	of	a	nutrient	 in	a	food.	These	include	phrases	
such	as	“sugar	free,”	“low	sodium,”	 and	“good	source	of.”	The	use	of	these	terms	is	regu-
lated	by	the	FDA,	and	some	of	the	approved	definitions	are	provided	as	follows:
•	 Light	 or	lite:	If	50	percent	or	more	of	the	calories	are	from	fat,	fat	must	be	reduced	
by	at	least	50	percent	as	compared	 to	a	regular	product.	 If	less	than	50	percent	of	
calories	are	from	fat,	fat	must	be	reduced	 by	at	least	50	percent	or	calories	reduced	
by	at	least	one-	 third	compared	to	a	regular	product.
•	 Reduced	 calories:	 At	least	25	percent	 fewer	calories	 per	serving	compared	 to	a	
regular	product.
•	 Calorie	free:	Less	than	5	calories	per	serving.
•	 Fat	free:	Less	than	0.5	grams	of	fat	per	serving.
•	 Low	fat:	3	grams	of	fat	or	less	per	serving.
•	 Saturated	fat	free:	Less	than	0.5	grams	of	saturated	fat	per	serving.
•	 Low	 in	saturated	 fat:	1	gram	of	saturated	 fat	per	serving	and	containing	 15	percent	
or	less	of	calories	from	saturated	fat.
•	 Cholesterol	 free:	Less	than	2	milligrams	 of	cholesterol	 per	serving.	Note	that	choles-
terol	claims	are	only	allowed	when	food	contains	 2	grams	or	less	of	saturated	 fat	per	
serving.
•	 Low	in	cholesterol:	20	milligrams	of	cholesterol	or	less	per	serving.
•	 Sodium	free:	Less	than	5	milligrams	of	sodium	per	serving.
•	 Low	in	sodium:	140	milligrams	of	sodium	per	serving.
•	 Sugar	free:	Less	than	0.5	grams	of	sugar	per	serving.
•	 High,	 rich	in,	or	excellent	 source	of:	Contains	 20	percent	or	more	of	the	daily	value	
to	describe	proteins,	vitamins,	minerals,	dietary	fiber,	or	potassium	per	serving.
•	 Fresh:	A	raw	food	that	has	not	been	frozen,	heat	processed,	or	otherwise	preserved.
•	 Fresh	frozen:	Food	was	quickly	frozen	while	still	fresh.
Health claims
Food	labels	are	also	permitted	 to	include	a	number	 of	health claims 	if	they	are	relevant	
to	the	product.	 The	health	claims	refer	to	a	relationship	 between	 a	nutrient	 or	a	food	
and	the	risk	of	a	disease	or	health-	related	condition.	 They	may	be	used	on	conventional	
foods	or	dietary	supplements,	 and	can	help	consumers	 choose	products	 that	will	meet	
their	dietary	needs	or	health	goals.	For	example,	 low-	fat	milk,	a	good	source	of	calcium,	
may	include	on	the	package	 label	a	statement	 indicating	 that	a	diet	high	in	calcium	will	
reduce	the	risk	of	osteoporosis.	 Health	claims	are	permitted	 only	after	the	scientific	 evid-
ence	is	reviewed	 and	found	to	be	valid,	and	must	be	approved	 by	the	FDA.	More	com-
plete	information	 regarding	 nutrient	 claims	and	health	claims	may	be	found	on	the	FDA	
website	at	www.fda.gov/Food/LabelingNutrition/default.htm.	 The	claims	allowed	at	this	
time	may	show	a	link	between	the	following:
•	 A	diet	with	sufficient	calcium	and	a	reduced	risk	of	osteoporosis.
•	 A	diet	low	in	total	fat	and	a	reduced	risk	of	some	cancers.
•	 A	diet	low	in	saturated	 fat	and	cholesterol	 and	a	reduced	 risk	of	cardiovascular	 or	
heart	disease.
•	 A	diet	rich	in	fiber	and	a	reduced	risk	of	some	cancers.
•	 A	diet	low	in	sodium	and	high	in	potassium	 and	a	reduced	 risk	of	hypertension	 and	
stroke.

Designing a healthy, competitive diet 		229
•	 A	diet	rich	in	fruits	and	vegetables	and	a	reduced	risk	of	some	cancers.
•	 A	diet	adequate	 in	the	synthetic	 form	of	vitamin	folate	or	folic	acid	and	a	reduced	
risk	of	neural	tube	defects.
•	 Use	of	sugarless	gum	and	a	reduced	risk	of	tooth	decay.
•	 A	diet	rich	in	fruits,	vegetables,	 and	grain	products	 that	contain	fiber	and	a	reduced	
risk	of	cardiovascular	disease.
•	 A	diet	rich	in	wholegrain	 foods	and	other	plant	foods,	as	well	as	low	in	total	fat,	
saturated	 fat,	and	cholesterol,	 and	reduced	 risk	of	cardiovascular	 disease	and	certain	
cancers.
•	 A	diet	low	in	saturated	 fat	and	cholesterol	 that	also	includes	 25	grams	of	soy	protein	
and	a	reduced	risk	of	cardiovascular	disease.
•	 Fatty	acids	from	oils	present	in	fish	and	a	reduced	risk	of	cardiovascular	disease.
Dietary considerations for physically active individuals 
and athletes
Adequate	 nutrition	 is	essential	 to	fitness	and	performance.	 For	every	exerciser,	 diet	must	
provide	 sufficient	 energy	from	adequate	 sources	to	fuel	activity,	protein	to	maintain	
muscle	mass,	and	water	to	transport	 nutrients	 and	cool	the	body.	In	general,	 while	there	
should	be	an	increase	 in	the	total	energy	intake	in	order	to	meet	the	energy	demands	
imposed	 by	physical	 activity	and	training,	 research	 in	sports	nutrition	 indicates	 that	
those	who	exercise	 or	train	regularly	 to	keep	fit	and	competitive	 do	not	require	addi-
tional	nutrients	 beyond	those	obtained	 by	consuming	 a	nutritionally	 well-	balanced	 diet.	
For	example,	 the	Dietary	Guidelines	 suggest	that	one	should	maintain	 at	least	50	percent	
of	the	total	energy	intake	being	derived	 from	carbohydrates.	 This	recommendation	
should	apply	to	every	physically	 active	individual	 as	well	as	to	a	majority	 of	athletes.	
Remember:	 as	the	total	caloric	intake	increases,	 the	absolute	 quantity	 of	carbohydrates	
consumed	 also	increases	 despite	the	same	proportion.	 However,	 modifications	 to	the	
Dietary	Guidelines	 may	help	enhance	 performance	 for	certain	athletic	endeavors,	 espe-
cially	those	that	challenge	the	body’s	limits.
Calorie needs
The	amount	of	energy	needed	for	an	activity	depends	 on	not	only	the	characteristics	 of	
the	exerciser	 such	as	body	size	and	body	composition,	 but	also	the	duration,	 intensity,	
and	frequency	 of	the	activity	(Table 	10.3). 	A	small	person	may	need	only	1800	kcal	daily	
to	sustain	normal	daily	activities	 without	losing	body	weight,	while	a	large,	muscular	 man	
may	need	4000	kcal.	For	a	casual	exerciser,	 the	energy	needed	for	activity	may	increase	
energy	expenditure	 by	a	few	hundred	 kilocalories	 a	day.	However,	 for	an	endurance	
athlete,	 such	as	a	marathon	 runner,	 the	energy	needed	 for	training	 may	increase	
expenditure	 by	2000	to	3000	kcal	a	day.	Therefore,	 some	athletes	may	need	as	much	as	
6000	kcal	or	more	daily	to	maintain	 body	weight	while	training.	 In	general,	 the	more	
intense	the	activity,	the	more	energy	it	requires.	 For	example,	 riding	a	bicycle	involves	
less	work	than	running	 the	same	distance	 and	therefore	 requires	 less	energy.	Similarly,	
the	more	time	spent	exercising,	 the	more	energy	it	requires.	 Riding	a	bicycle	for	60	
minutes	 requires	 six	times	the	energy	needed	to	ride	for	10	minutes.	 If	an	athlete	experi-
ences	daily	fatigue,	the	first	consideration	 should	be	whether	 he	or	she	is	consuming	
enough	 food.	Up	to	six	meals	per	day	may	be	needed,	 including	 one	before	each	
workout.
	 Body	 weight	and	composition	 can	affect	athletic	performance.	 Athletes	 involved	 in	
activities	 where	a	small,	light	body	offers	an	advantage,	 such	as	ballet,	gymnastics,	 and	

230		 Designing a healthy, competitive diet
certain	running	 events,	may	restrict	energy	intake	to	maintain	 a	low	body	weight.	While	
a	slightly	leaner	physique	 may	be	beneficial,	 dieting	to	maintain	 an	unrealistically	 low	
body	weight	can	be	harmful	 to	health	and	performance.	 An	athlete	who	needs	to	lose	
weight	should	do	so	in	advance	 of	the	competitive	 season	to	prevent	the	restricted	 diet	
from	affecting	 performance.	 In	addition,	 to	preserve	 lean	body	mass	and	enhance	 fat	
loss,	weight	loss	should	occur	at	a	rate	of	1	to	2	pounds	per	week.	This	can	be	accomp-
lished	by	lowering	 food	intake	by	200	to	500	kilocalories	 per	day	while	maintaining	 a	
Table 10.3	Energy	expenditure	in	kilocalories	per	hour	based	on	body	mass
Activity/sport 50 kg 60 kg 70 kg 80 kg 90 kg
Aerobic	dance 270 310 350 380 420
American	football 240 270 305 340 370
Aquarobics 235 290 310 360 400
Archery 190 220 250 270 300
Badminton 270 310 350 385 420
Baseball	and	softball 220 250 285 315 350
Basketball	(half	court) 240 270 305 340 370
Basketball	(competition) 480 545 610 670 740
Body	building 375 427 480 530 585
Bowling 215 230 275 305 335
Boxing	(sparring) 190 220 250 270 300
Calisthenics 190 220 250 270 300
Canoeing	and	kayaking	(4	 mph) 240 270 350 385 420
Circuit	training 263 300 335 375 410
Climbing	(mountain) 480 545 610 680 745
Cricket	(fielding) 240 270 350 385 420
Cross-country	skiing 560 635 715 790 870
Cycling	(moderate	speed 165 190 214 240 260
Dance	(social) 223 255 285 315 350
Fencing 240 270 305 340 370
Golf	(walking	with	bag) 200 230 255 280 310
Gymnastics 255 280 315 350 380
Hockey 430 490 550 610 670
Horseriding 190 220 250 270 300
Ice	hockey 280 270 355 395 435
Jogging	(9	 km/h) 520 590 660 735 806
Martial	arts 250 280 315 350 385
Orienteering 520 590 660 735 806
Rope	jumping	(continuous) 560 635 715 790 870
Rowing	(recreational) 190 220 250 270 300
Rugby 430 490 550 610 670
Running	(16	 km/h) 719 820 920 1016 1116
Skiing	(downhill) 480 545 610 680 745
Soccer 430 490 550 610 670
Squash 480 545 610 680 745
Swimming	(fast) 426 512 639 767 853
Swimming	(slow) 349 419 524 629 698
Tennis 335 380 430 475 520
Table	tennis 236 283 354 424 472
Volleyball 280 270 355 395 435
Walking	(brisk) 240 280 315 350 385
Weight	training 375 427 480 530 585
Source:	adapted	 from	 Food and Fitness: A Dictionary of Diet and Exercise, Oxford Food & Fitness Dictionary  
(2003);	McArdle	 et al.	(2009).

Designing a healthy, competitive diet   231
regular	exercise	 program.	 On	the	other	hand,	in	sports	such	as	American	 football	and	
rugby,	in	which	being	large	and	heavy	is	advantageous,	 an	increase	 in	body	weight	may	
be	desirable.	 If	an	athlete	needs	to	gain	weight,	increasing	 food	intake	by	500	to	1000	
extra	calories	per	day	should	be	consumed	 (Position	 of	the	American	 Dietetic	 Associ-
ation,	Dietitians	 of	Canada,	 and	the	American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine).	 In	addition,	
strength	 training	 should	accompany	 weight	gain	to	promote	 an	increase	 in	lean	body	
mass	(Kraemer	 et al.	1999).
Carbohydrate, fat, and protein needs
The	source	of	dietary	energy	is	often	as	important	 as	the	amount	of	energy.	In	general,	
the	diets	of	physically	 active	individuals	 and	most	athletes	should	contain	the	same	pro-
portion	of	carbohydrate,	 fat,	and	protein	as	is	recommended	 to	the	general	public;	that	
is,	about	45	to	65	percent	of	total	energy	as	carbohydrate,	 20	to	35	percent	of	energy	as	
fat,	and	10	to	35	percent	of	energy	as	protein	(Position	 of	the	American	 Dietetic	Associ-
ation,	Dietitians	of	Canada,	and	the	American	College	of	Sports	Medicine).
Carbohydrate needs
Carbohydrate	 represents	 the	most	important	 source	of	energy.	Carbohydrate	 is	needed	
to	maintain	 blood	glucose	levels	during	exercise	 and	to	replace	glycogen	 stores	after	
exercise.	 In	general,	 the	diets	of	physically	 active	individuals	 should	contain	the	same	
proportion	 of	carbohydrate,	 fat,	and	protein	as	recommended	 to	the	general	public	
(mentioned	 above).	However,	 athletes	should	be	encouraged	 to	aim	at	the	high	end	of	
the	percentage	 range	for	carbohydrate	 (i.e.	~60	percent).	 For	a	2000	kcal	diet,	this	trans-
lates	into	300	g	of	carbohydrate	 (1	g	of	carbohydrate	 =	4	kcal)	and	4.3	g	per	kg	of	body	
weight	(if	using	a	body	weight	of	70	kg).	It	is	recommended	 that	although	 the	amount	of	
carbohydrate	 needed	depends	 on	total	energy	expenditure,	 type	of	sport,	gender,	and	
environment,	 it	should	range	from	6	to	10	grams	per	kilogram	 of	body	weight	per	day	
(Position	 of	the	American	 Dietetic	Association,	 Dietitians	 of	Canada,	 and	the	American	
College	of	Sports	Medicine).	 People	engaged	 in	aerobic	training	 and	endurance	 activ-
ities	lasting	for	about	60	minutes	 per	day	may	need	6	to	7	grams	per	kilogram	 of	body	
weight.	When	exercise	 duration	 approaches	 several	hours	per	day,	carbohydrate	 intake	
may	increase	 up	to	10	grams	per	kilogram	 of	body	weight.	In	other	words,	 triathletes  
and	marathoners	 should	consider	 eating	about	500	to	600	grams	of	carbohydrate	 daily,	
or	even	more	if	necessary,	 in	order	to	prevent	chronic	fatigue	and	to	load	the	muscles	
and	liver	with	glycogen.
	 For	athletes	 as	well	as	physically	 active	individuals,	 most	of	the	carbohydrate	 in	
their	diet	should	be	complex	 carbohydrates	 from	wholegrains	 and	starchy	vegetables, 	
with	some	naturally	 occurring	 simple	sugars	from	fruits	and	milk.	These	foods	
provide	 necessary	 vitamins,	 minerals,	 phytochemicals,	 and	fibers	as	well	as	energy.	
Their	focus	is	to	include	high-	carbohydrate	 foods	while	moderating	 concentrated	 fat	
sources.	Sports	nutritionists 	emphasize 	the	difference 	between	a	high-	carbohydrate	
meal	and	a	high-	carbohydrate/high-	 fat	meal.	Before	endurance	 events,	such	as	mara-
thons	or	triathlons,	 some	athletes	 seek	to	increase	 their	carbohydrate	 reserves	 by	
eating	foods	such	as	potato	chips,	French	fries,	and	pastries.	Although 	such	foods	
provide	 carbohydrate,	 they	also	contain	 a	lot	of	fat.	Better	carbohydrate	 choices	
include	pasta,	rice,	potatoes,	 bread,	fruit	and	fruit	juices,	and	many	breakfast	 cereals.	
Consuming	 a	moderate	 rather	than	a	high	amount	 of	fiber	during	the	final	day	of	
training	is	a	good	precaution 	to	reduce	the	chances	of	bloating	and	intestinal 	gas	
during	the	next	day’s	event.

232  Designing a healthy, competitive diet
Fat needs
A	diet	containing	 up	to	35	percent	of	calories	from	fat	is	generally	 recommended	 for	
athletes.	 Dietary	fat	supplies	 fat-	soluble	vitamins	 and	essential	 fatty	acids	as	well	as	an	
important	 source	of	energy.	Body	stores	of	fat	provide	enough	 energy	to	support	 the	
needs	of	even	the	longest	endurance	 events.	No	performance	 benefits	have	been	associ-
ated	with	diets	containing	 less	than	15	percent	fat.	On	the	other	hand,	excess	dietary	fat	
is	unnecessary	 and	excess	energy	consumed	 as	fat,	carbohydrate,	 and	protein	can	cause	
an	increase	 in	body	fat	and	thus	weight	gain.	In	addition,	 consumption	 of	saturated	 fat	
and	trans	fat	should	be	limited.
Protein needs
Protein	is	essential	 to	maintain	 muscle	mass	and	strength.	 The	RDA	for	protein	for	non-	
athletes	is	0.8	grams	per	kilogram	 of	body	weight.	Therefore,	 a	person	weighing	 70	kilo-
grams	requires	 56	grams	or	2	ounces	of	protein	 daily.	Assuming	 that	even	during	
exercise,	 relatively	 little	protein	loss	occurs	through	 energy	metabolism,	 this	protein	
recommendation	remains	adequate	for	most	active	individuals.
	 Although	 a	diet	containing	 the	RDA	for	protein	(0.8	g/kg)	provides	 adequate	 protein	
for	most	active	individuals,	 competitive	 athletes	 participating	 in	endurance	 and	
strength/power	 sports	may	require	more	protein.	 In	endurance	 events	such	as	mara-
thons,	protein	is	needed	for	energy	and	to	maintain	blood	glucose,	so	these	athletes	may	
benefit	from	consuming	 1.2	to	1.4	grams	of	protein	per	kilogram	 of	body	weight	per	
day.	Strength	 and	power	athletes	who	require	amino	acids	to	synthesize	 muscle	proteins	
may	benefit	from	1.4	to	1.6	grams	per	kilogram	 of	body	weight	per	day.	In	fact,	the	
protein	intake	for	most	athletes	often	exceeds	 the	protein	RDA,	and	their	diet	usually	
contains	 two	to	three	times	more	protein	than	recommended	 values.	For	example,	 an	
85-kilogram	 man	who	consumes	 3000	kilocalories,	 18	percent	of	which	is	from	protein,	
his	or	her	protein	intake	is	135	grams	(1	gram	of	protein	=	4	kilocalories)	 or	1.6	grams	of	
protein	per	kilogram	of	body	weight.
	 Any	athlete	not	specifically	 on	a	low	calorie	regimen	 can	easily	meet	the	protein	
recommendations	 by	eating	a	variety	of	foods.	To	illustrate,	 a	57-kg	(125-lb)	 woman	per-
forming	 endurance	 activity	can	consume	 68	g	of	protein	(57	×	1.2)	during	a	single	day	by	
including	 3	oz	of	chicken	 (e.g.,	a	chicken	 breast),	3	oz	of	beef	(e.g.,	a	small	lean	ham-
burger),	 and	2	glasses	of	milk	in	her	diet.	Similarly,	 a	77-kg	(180-lb)	 man	who	wants	to	
gain	muscle	mass	through	 strength	 training	needs	to	consume	 only	6	oz	of	chicken	(e.g.,	
a	large	chicken	breast),	1/2	a	cup	of	cooked	beans,	a	6-oz	can	of	tuna,	and	3	glasses	of	
milk	to	achieve	an	intake	of	125	g	of	protein	(77	×	1.6)	in	a	day.	For	both	athletes,	 their	
calculations	 do	not	even	include	protein	present	in	grains	and	vegetables	 which	they	will	
also	eat.	It	is	clear	that	by	meeting	 calorie	needs,	many	athletes	consume	 much	more	
protein	than	is	required.	 There	are	hundreds	 of	protein	supplements	 that	are	commer-
cially	available.	 Although	 certain	types	of	exercise	 do	increase	 protein	needs,	the	protein	
provided	 by	these	expensive	 supplements	 will	not	meet	an	athlete’s	 needs	any	better	
than	the	protein	found	in	a	balanced	diet.
Vitamin and mineral needs
Although	 vitamins	 and	minerals	 are	essential	 nutrients,	 the	amount	of	vitamin	we	need	
to	prevent	deficiency	 is	small.	In	general,	 humans	 require	a	total	of	about	1	oz	(28	g)	
vitamins	 for	every	70	kg	(150	lb)	of	food	consumed.	 Given	such	small	requirements,	
with	proper	nutrition	 from	a	variety	of	food	sources,	 the	physically	 active	person	or	

Designing a healthy, competitive diet   233
competitive	 athlete	need	not	consume	 vitamin	 and	mineral	 supplements.	 However,	
about	40	percent	 of	adults	in	the	United	States	take	vitamin	and/or	mineral	 supple-
ments	on	a	regular	basis,	some	at	unsafe	levels.	They	are	spending	 $15	billion	annually	
on	supplements.	The	health-	 related	value	of	this	practice	remains	in	debate.
	 Adequate	 vitamin	and	mineral	 intake	is	essential	 to	optimal	 performance.	 In	addi-
tion,	the	need	for	some	micronutrients	 may	be	increased	 by	exercise.	 Generally	 speak-
ing,	vitamin	and	mineral	 needs	are	the	same	or	slightly	higher	for	athletes	compared	
with	those	of	sedentary	 adults.	However,	 athletes	or	physically	 active	individuals	 usually	
have	high	caloric	intakes,	so	they	tend	to	consume	 plenty	of	vitamins	 and	minerals.	 The	
only	exceptions	 are	that	(1)	they	consume	 low-	calorie	diets,	such	as	seen	with	female	
athletes	 participating	 in	events	in	which	maintaining	 a	low	body	weight	is	crucial;	
(2)	they	are	vegetarians	 who	eliminate	 one	or	more	food	groups	from	their	diet,	and	
(3)	they	consume	 a	large	amount	of	processed	 foods	and	simple	sugars	with	low	nutrient	
density.	In	these	adverse	situations,	 a	multivitamin	 and	mineral	 supplement	 at	recom-
mended	dosage	can	upgrade	the	nutrient	density	of	the	daily	diet.
Vitamin needs
Of	the	many	vitamins,	 B	vitamins	 are	among	those	that	are	often	chosen	as	supple-
ments	because	of	the	important 	roles	they	can	play	during	exercise. 	Most	B	vitamins	
function	 as	coenzymes	 and	they	are	involved	 in	energy	production.	 They	are	also	
required	 for	red	blood	cell	synthesis,	 protein	synthesis,	 and	tissue	repair	and	mainte-
nance.	Supplementing	 vitamins	 C	and	E	is	another	 common	 interest	among	athletes.	
Both	serve	as	an	antioxidant,	 and	their	deficiencies	 have	been	related	to	impaired	 syn-
thesis	of	collagen,	 production	 of	neurotransmitters,	 and	anemia,	 all	of	which	have	
high	implications	 for	exercise	 performance.	 However,	 no	exercise	 benefit	exists	for	
vitamins	with	intakes	above	the	recommended 	values.	Supplementing 	for	four	days	
with	a	highly	absorbed	 derivative	 of	thiamin,	 a	component	 of	the	pyruvate	 dehydroge -
nase	that	catalyzes	 the	movement	 of	pyruvate	 into	the	Krebs	cycle,	offered	 no	
advantage	 over	a	placebo	 on	measures	 of	oxygen	uptake,	lactate	accumulation,	 and	
cycling	performance	 during	exhaustive	 exercise	 (Webster	 et al.	1997).	In	addition, 	
studies	using	high-	potency	 multivitamin-	 mineral	 supplementation	 for	well-	nourished, 	
healthy	individuals	 have	failed	to	demonstrate	 any	beneficial	 effect	on	aerobic	fitness,	
muscular	 strength,	 and	neuromuscular	 function	 following	 prolonged	 running	 or	ath-
letic	performance	 (Gauche	 et al.	2006).	The	lack	of	efficacy	of	vitamin	supplementa -
tion	may	be	attributed	 to	the	fact	that	vitamin	status	in	those	who	are	physically	 active	
or	highly	trained	athletes	 does	not	differ	from	that	of	untrained	 individuals,	 despite	
large	differences	in	daily	physical	activity	levels.
	 Given	 the	important	 roles	which	vitamins	 play,	any	physically	 active	individual	 or	
athlete	should	be	cognizant	 of	an	adequate	 intake	of	these	nutrients	 in	order	to	maxi-
mize	micronutrient 	density	in	their	diet.	The	use	of	large	doses	of	vitamins	requires	
more	study	and	is	not	currently	 recommended	 as	an	accepted	 part	of	dietary	guid-
ance	for	athletes.	 Experts	 suggest	consuming	 a	diet	containing	 foods	rich	in	B	vita-
mins	and	antioxidants	 such	as	fruits,	vegetables,	 wholegrain	 breads	and	cereals,	and	
vegetable	 oils.	There	is	evidence	 that	antioxidant	 function	 in	the	body	enhances	 as	
exercise	 training	 progresses.	 This	would	suggest	 that	a	physically	 active	lifestyle	
coupled	 with	a	sound	nutrition	 plan	will	be	an	ultimate	 solution	 to	the	success	in	
fitness	and	performance.	 A	multivitamin	 and	mineral	 supplementation	 may	be	con-
sidered	 for	athletes	 who	restrict	energy	intake	or	use	severe	weight	loss	practices, 	
eliminate	 one	or	more	of	the	food	groups,	 or	consume	 high-	carbohydrate	 and	low-	
micronutrient-dense	diets.

234  Designing a healthy, competitive diet
Mineral needs
The	use	of	mineral	 supplements	 should	not	be	recommended	 unless	prescribed	 by	a	
physician	 or	registered	 dietician	 because	 of	potential	 adverse	consequences.	 A	well-	
balanced	 diet	with	an	adequate	 intake	of	total	energy	will	provide	more	than	enough	of	
both	major	and	minor	minerals	 for	all	individuals.	 However,	 some	minerals	 may	be	
worth	mentioning	 due	to	their	greater	loss	pertaining	 to	high-	intensity	 training	 among	
athletes.	 For	example,	 loss	of	water	and	accompanying	 mineral	salts,	primarily	 sodium,	
chloride,	 and	potassium,	 in	sweat	pose	an	important	 challenge	 during	prolonged	 exer-
cise,	especially	 during	hot	weather.	 Excessive	 water	and	electrolyte	 loss	impairs	heat	tol-
erance	and	exercise	 performance,	 and	may	cause	dysfunction	 in	the	form	of	heat	
cramps,	 heat	exhaustion,	 and	heat-	stroke.	The	yearly	number	 of	heat-	related	deaths	
during	summer	 football	practice	 tragically	 illustrates	 the	importance	 of	fluid	and	elec-
trolyte	replacement.	 During	a	practice	 or	game,	an	athlete	may	lose	up	to	5	kg	(~10	lb)	
of	water	from	sweating.	 This	corresponds	 to	a	loss	of	about	8	g	of	salt	because	 each	kg	
(or	liter)	of	sweat	contains	 about	1.5	g	of	salt.	Therefore,	 replacement	 of	water	and	salt	
loss	through	 sweat	become	 the	crucial	and	immediate	 needs.	One	can	achieve	proper	
supplementation	 by	drinking	 a	0.1	to	0.2	percent	salt	solution	 (i.e.,	adding	one-	third	of	
a	teaspoon	 of	table	salt	per	liter	of	water).	Further	discussion	 on	water	and	electrolyte	
loss	and	their	replacement	strategies	is	presented	in	 Chapter	16.
	 Iron	is	involved	 in	red	blood	cell	production,	 oxygen	transport,	 and	energy	produc-
tion,	so	a	deficiency	 of	this	mineral	may	detract	from	optimal	athletic	performance.	 For	
most	individuals,	 exercise	 does	not	increase	 iron	needs.	However,	 in	athletes,	 especially	
female	athletes,	 a	reduction	 in	the	amount	of	stored	iron	is	common.	 Poor	iron	status	
may	be	caused	by	inadequate	 iron	intake,	increased	 iron	needs,	increased	 iron	losses,	or	
a	redistribution	 of	iron	due	to	exercise	 training.	 Dietary	iron	intake	may	be	limited	in	
athletes	who	are	attempting	 to	keep	body	weight	low,	or	in	those	who	consume	 a	vege-
tarian	diet	and	therefore	 do	not	eat	meat	–	an	excellent	 source	of	readily	absorbed	 iron.	
Iron	needs	may	be	increased	 in	athletes	because	 exercise	 stimulates	 the	production	 of	
red	blood	cells,	so	more	iron	is	needed	for	hemoglobin	 synthesis.	 Iron	is	also	needed	for	
the	synthesis	 of	muscle	myoglobin	 and	iron-	containing	 proteins	 used	for	ATP	produc-
tion	in	mitochondria.	 An	increase	 in	iron	loss	with	prolonged	 training,	 possibly	because	
of	increased	urinary	and	sweat	loss,	also	contributes	to	increased	iron	needs	in	athletes.
	 Calcium	 is	another	important	 mineral	that	deserves	 extra	attention,	 particularly	 among	
women	athletes	who	try	to	lose	weight	by	restricting	 their	intake	of	dairy	products	 rich	in	
calcium.	 Calcium	 is	needed	to	maintain	 blood	calcium	levels	and	promote	 and	maintain 	
bone	density,	which	in	turn	reduces	the	risk	of	osteoporosis.	 In	general,	exercise,	 especially 	
weight-	bearing	exercise,	 increases	 bone	density.	However,	 in	female	athletes	with	extremely 	
low	body	weight	and	body	fat,	their	calcium	status	can	be	at	risk.	These	athletes	are	found	
to	also	have	a	high	risk	for	developing	 eating	disorder	 and	amenorrhea.	 The	combination 	
of	disordered	 eating,	amenorrhea,	 and	osteoporosis	 is	referred	 to	as	female athlete triad .	
Female	athletes	who	strive	to	reduce	their	body	weight	to	achieve	an	ideal	body	image	and	
to	meet	the	performance	 goals	set	by	coaches,	 trainers,	 or	parents	are	at	increased	 risk	for	
developing	 this	syndrome	 of	interrelated	 disorders.	 The	extreme	 energy	restriction	 that	
occurs	in	eating	disorders	 can	create	a	physiological	 condition	 similar	to	starvation	 and	
contribute	 to	menstrual	 abnormalities.	 High	intensities	 of	exercise	can	also	affect	the	men-
strual	cycle	by	increasing	 energy	demands	 or	by	causing	a	decrease	 in	female	reductive 	
hormones,	 particularly	 estrogen	 (Otis	 et al.	1997).	When	combined,	 energy	restriction	 and	
excessive	 exercise	can	contribute	 to	amenorrhea,	 the	delayed	onset	of	menstruation	 or	the	
absence	of	three	or	more	consecutive	 menstrual	 cycles.	Loss	of	regular	menstrual	 cycles	in	
female	athletes	stems	from	a	reduction	 of	estrogen.	 A	low	level	of	estrogen	 has	other	

Designing a healthy, competitive diet 		235
negative	 consequences	 for	the	body.	It	reduces	calcium	absorption	 and,	when	combined 	
with	poor	calcium	intake,	leads	to	premature	bone	loss	and	increased	stress	fractures.
	 Female	 athletes	experiencing	 symptoms	 of	the	female	athlete	triad,	such	as	irregular	
menstrual	 periods	and/or	stress	fracture,	 should	consult	a	physician	 to	determine	 the	
cause.	Decreasing	 the	amount	of	training	 or	increasing	 energy	intake	and	body	weight	
often	restore	regular	menstrual	 cycles	and	stabilize	 bone	mass.	A	physician	 may	pre-
scribe	multivitamin	 and	mineral	supplements	 as	well	as	calcium	supplements	 as	needed	
to	maintain	 an	intake	of	at	least	1200	milligrams	 per	day.	If	irregular	 menstrual	 cycles	
persist,	severe	bone	loss	and	osteoporosis	 can	result.	What	is	more	alarming	 is	that	such	
bone	loss	cannot	be	completely	 reversed	 by	either	increasing	 dietary	calcium	or	by	per-
forming	 more	weight-	bearing	exercise.	 Therefore	 early	prevention	 is	crucial,	and	it	is	
encouraged	 that	teachers,	 coaches,	 health	professionals,	 and	parents	educate	 female	
athletes	about	the	triad	and	its	health	consequences.
Special planning for sports performance
For	most	of	us,	a	trip	to	the	gym	requires	 no	special	dietary	planning	 beyond	that	
needed	to	consume	 a	balanced	 diet	as	described	 above.	However,	 for	athletes	competing	
in	athletic	events,	foods	eaten	in	preparation	 for	a	competition	 can	mean	the	difference	
between	 victory	and	defeat.	For	this	reason,	 specialized	 dietary	advice	has	been	
developed	 with	regard	to	what	athletes	 should	consume	 before,	during,	and	after	the	
competition	 or	along	with	their	regular	training	 routines.	 For	example,	 it	has	been	con-
sidered	that	spaghetti,	 muffins,	 bagels,	and	pancakes	 with	fresh	fruits	are	good	food	
choices	for	a	pre-	game	meal.	Liquid	meal	replacement	 formulas	 such	as	Carnation	
instant	breakfast	 may	also	be	used.	Foods	especially	 rich	in	fiber	should	be	eaten	the	
previous	 day	to	empty	the	colon	before	an	event,	but	they	should	not	be	eaten	the	night	
before	or	in	the	morning	 before	the	event.	For	athletes	involved	 in	resistance	 training,	
consuming	 easily	digestible	 protein	in	multiple	 and	even	doses	has	been	recommended	
to	maximize	 their	anabolic	 adaptations.	 Experts	 have	developed	 a	number	 of	sports	
nutrition	recommendations,	which	will	be	discussed	in	the	following	sections.
Pre- competition meals
The	pre-	competition	 meal	should	provide	 adequate	 carbohydrate	 energy	and	ensure	
optimal	hydration.	 As	a	general	rule,	the	meal	should	be	high	in	carbohydrate	 and	low	
in	fat	and	protein.	 High-	fiber	foods	should	be	avoided	to	prevent	feeling	bloated	during	
competitions.	 As	increased	 stress	and	tension	 that	usually	accompany	 competitions	
decrease	 blood	flow	to	the	digestive	 tract,	depressing	 intestinal	 absorption,	 the	meal	
should	be	consumed	 three	to	four	hours	before	the	event.	The	amount	of	calories	may	
vary	depending	 on	gender	and	size	of	the	athlete,	but	it	should	be	within	a	tolerable	
range,	i.e.,	300	to	500	kcal.	This	small	intake	of	carbohydrate	 is	to	mainly	optimize	 liver	
glycogen	 stores.	As	for	food	choices,	 athletes	should	select	those	that	they	prefer	and/or	
believe	that	they	will	give	them	a	winning	 edge.	Some	athletes	find	that	in	addition	 to	a	
pre-	competition	 meal,	a	small	high-	carbohydrate	 snack	or	beverage	 consumed	 shortly	
before	an	event	may	enhance	 performance	 (Coyle	1995).	Because	 foods	affect	people	
differently,	 athletes	should	test	the	effects	of	their	choices	during	training,	 not	during	
competition.	 It	must	be	emphasized	 that	the	importance	 of	a	pre-	competition	 meal	
occurs	only	if	the	athlete	maintains	 a	nutritionally	 sound	diet	throughout	 training.	 Pre-	
competition	 meals	cannot	correct	any	existing	 nutritional	 deficiencies	 or	inadequate	
nutrient	 intake	in	the	weeks	before	competition.	 Table 	10.4 	exhibits	 sample	pre-	game	
meals	that	reflect	this	portion	size	and	composition	requirement.

Table 10.4	Sample	pre-	and	post-exercise	meals
Pre-exercise meals Post-exercise meals
Food Serving Calories and nutrients Food Serving Calories and nutrients
Option	1 Cheerios	 3/4	cup 450	kcal
90	g	(80%)	carbohydrateOption	1 Bagel 1 562	kcal
75	g	carbohydrate
22	g	proteinReduced-fat	milk 1 cup Peanut	butter 2	tbsp
Blueberry	muffin 1 Fat-free	milk 8	ounce
Orange	juice 4 ounces Banana 1 med
Option	2 Fruit	yogurt 1 cup 482	kcal
85	g	(70%)	carbohydrateOption	2 Instant	breakfast 1	packet 438	kcal
70	g	carbohydrate
17	g	proteinBagel half Fat-free	milk 8	ounces
Apple	juice 4 ounces Banana 1 med
Peanut	butter 1	tbsp Peanut	butter 1	tbsp

Designing a healthy, competitive diet 		237
Glycogen supercompensation
While	carbohydrate	 intake	in	the	hours	before	a	competition	 will	mainly	optimize	 liver	
glycogen,	 carbohydrate	 consumption	 in	the	days	leading	up	to	a	competition	 allows	
muscle	glycogen	 stores	to	be	fully	replenished.	 In	1967,	Scandinavian	 scientists	 dis-
covered	that	muscle	glycogen	 could	be	supercompensated	 by	changes	 in	diet	and	exer-
cise.	In	a	series	of	studies,	 these	scientists	 developed	 a	so-	called	 glycogen 
supercompensation 	or	carbohydrate	 loading	protocol,	 which	has	been	found	to	be	able	
to	increase	 in	muscle	glycogen	 stores	20	to	40	percent	 above	the	level	that	would	be	
achieved	 on	a	typical	diet.	This	diet	regimen	 involves	depleting	 glycogen	 stores	by	exer-
cising	strenuously	 and	then	replenishing	 glycogen	 by	consuming	 a	high-	carbohydrate	
diet	for	a	few	days	before	a	competition,	 during	which	time	only	light	exercise	 is	per-
formed.	 For	example,	 consider	 the	glycogen	 supercompensation	 schedule	 of	a	25-year-	
old	man	preparing	 for	a	marathon.	 His	typical	calorie	needs	are	about	3500	kcal	per	day.	
Six	days	before	the	competition,	 he	completes	 a	final	hard	workout	 of	60	minutes.	 On	
that	day,	carbohydrates	 contribute	 to	50	percent	of	his	total	caloric	intake.	As	he	goes	
through	 the	rest	of	the	week,	the	duration	 of	his	workout	 decreases	 to	40	minutes,	 and	
then	to	about	20	minutes	 by	the	end	of	the	week.	Meanwhile,	 he	increases	 the	amount	
(i.e.,	~10	g	kg–1)	of	carbohydrate	 in	his	diet	to	reach	at	least	70	percent	 of	the	total	
caloric	intake	as	the	week	continues.	 The	total	caloric	intake	should	decrease	 as	exercise	
time	decreases.	 On	the	final	day	before	the	competition,	 he	rests	while	maintaining	 the	
high-	carbohydrate	intake.	The	supercompensation	regimen	is	illustrated	in	 Table 	 10.5.
	 The	regimen	 has	been	used	successfully	 by	several	top	endurance	 athletes	(Sherman 	
et al.	1981).	In	fact,	many	marathon	 runners	still	use	this	method	to	optimize	 their	per-
formance.	 Although	 the	supercompensation	 protocol	 has	been	very	effective	 in	increasing 	
muscle	glycogen 	concentration, 	it	also	has	several	potential 	disadvantages 	of	which	athletes	
should	be	aware.	During	the	first	three	days,	athletes	may	experience	 hypoglycemia,	 and	
they	may	not	recover	very	well	from	an	exhausting	 exercise	bout	when	insufficient	 carbo-
hydrate	is	ingested.	 Some	athletes	also	feel	muscle	stiffness	while	following	 the	regimen. 	
This	is	because	an	increase	in	muscle	glycogen	 will	require	additional	 water	to	be	incorpor-
ated	into	the	muscle.	In	addition,	 as	the	protocol	 would	require	an	athlete	to	reduce	their	
training	volume,	most	athletes	won’t	feel	comfortable 	and	may	develop	mood	disturbances	
which	may	have	a	negative	effect	on	their	mental	preparation	for	an	event.
	 The	carbohydrate	 supercompensation	 regimen	 increased	 time	to	exhaustion	 on	
average	by	about	20	percent	 and	reduced	 the	time	to	complete	 a	set	task	by	2	to	3	
percent	(Hawley	 et al.	1997).	However,	 it	seems	that	egogenic	 benefits	 of	this	protocol	
can	only	be	demonstrated	 in	events	that	last	more	than	90	minutes.	 Such	carbohydrate	
loading	appears	to	have	no	effect	on	sprint	performance	 and	high-	intensity	 exercise	 of	
Table 10.5 	A	modified	regimen	to	supercompensate	muscle	glycogen	stores
Days 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Exercise	
furation	(min)90 40 40 20 20 Rest Competition
Exercise	
intensity 
(%	VO2max)75 75 75 75 75 Rest
Diet	(%	of	
calories from 
carbohydrate)50%	
(4	g/kg)50%	
(4	g/kg)50%	
(4	g/kg)70%	
(10	g/kg)70%	
(10	g/kg)70%	
(10	g/kg)

238		 Designing a healthy, competitive diet
up	to	about	30	minutes	 compared	 with	normal	diets	(i.e.,	50	percent	 carbohydrate).	
This	finding	is	not	unexpected,	 because	for	this	exercise	 duration	 glycogen	 depletion	 is	
not	a	major	performance-	 limiting	 factor.	Carbohydrate	 supercompensation	 has	also	
been	reported	 to	improve	 performance	 in	team	sports	involving	 high-	intensity	 intermit-
tent	bouts	of	exercise	such	as	soccer	and	hockey	(Balsom	 et al.	1999).
Carbohydrate supplementation during exercise
For	sporting	 events	that	last	longer	than	60	minutes,	 carbohydrate	 feeding	during	exer-
cise	can	also	improve	 athletic	performance.	 This	is	because	prolonged	 exercise	 depletes	
muscle	glycogen	 stores,	and	low	levels	of	muscle	glycogen	 and	blood	glucose	lead	to	
fatigue,	 both	physical	 and	mental.	 When	endogenous	 carbohydrate	 stores,	such	as	
muscle	glycogen,	 run	low,	athletes	 often	complain	 of	“hitting	 the	wall,”	the	point	at	
which	maintaining	 a	competitive	 pace	seems	impossible.	 However,	 consuming	 about	60	
grams	of	liquid	or	solid	carbohydrate	every	hour	has	been	shown	to	reverse	this	obstacle.	
It	must	be	mentioned	 that	such	benefit	of	carbohydrate	 feeding	 has	been	generally	
demonstrated	 during	exercise	 in	which	intensity	 exceeds	 70	percent	VO2max.	As	men-
tioned	in	Chapter 	4, 	sustained	 exercise	 at	or	below	60	percent	VO2max	places	much	less	
demand	 on	carbohydrate	 breakdown.	 This	level	of	exercise	 does	not	tax	glycogen	
reserves	to	a	degree	that	would	limit	endurance.	 Nevertheless,	 glucose	feedings	 provide	
supplementary	 carbohydrate	 during	intense	 exercise	 when	demand	 for	glycogen	
increases	 significantly.	 The	mechanisms	 by	which	carbohydrate	 feeding	during	exercise	
may	improve	endurance	performance	include	the	following:
•	 maintaining	blood	glucose	and	a	high	level	of	carbohydrate	oxidation;
•	 sparing	liver	and	possibly	muscle	glycogen;
•	 promoting	 glycogen	 synthesis,	 especially	 during	low-	intensity	 periods	of	intermittent	
exercise;
•	 enhancing	the	function	of	the	central	nervous	system.
Studies	have	also	addressed	 questions	 as	to	which	carbohydrates	 are	most	effective,	 what	is	
the	most	effective	 schedule,	 and	what	is	the	optimal	amount	of	carbohydrate	 to	consume. 	
The	timing	of	carbohydrate	 feedings	 seems	to	have	little	effect	on	the	use	of	ingested	 car-
bohydrate,	 which	is	typically	measured	 by	determining	 exogenous	 carbohydrate	 oxidation 	
rates.	Studies	in	which	a	large	dose	(100	g)	of	carbohydrate	 in	solution	was	given	produced 	
similar	exogenous	 carbohydrate	 oxidation	 rates	to	studies	in	which	100	grams	of	carbohy-
drate	were	ingested	at	regular	intervals. 	Knowing 	the	amount	of	carbohydrate 	that	needs	
to	be	ingested	 to	attain	optimal	performance	 while	producing	 no	side	effects	is	important. 	
In	theory,	the	optimal	amount	should	be	the	amount	that	results	in	maximal	 exogenous 	
carbohydrate	 oxidation	 rate.	Through	 an	analysis	 using	a	large	number	 of	studies,	
Jeukendrup	 and	Jentjens	 (2000)	found	that	carbohydrate	 feeding	at	rates	of	about	1	to	
1.2	g/min	produce	 the	maximal	 exogenous	 carbohydrate	 oxidation	 rate.	This	finding	
suggests	that	athletes	who	adopt	an	ingestion	 rate	of	60	to	70	g/hr	can	expect	an	optimal	
carbohydrate	 delivery.	 This	amount	of	carbohydrate	 may	be	found	in	the	following	 sources:	
1	liter	of	sports	drink	(i.e.,	Gatorade,	 Powerade,	 Isostar),	 600	ml	of	cola	drink,	1.5	Power	
bars	or	Gatorade	energy	bars,	or	three	medium	bananas.
	 As	far	as	the	type	of	carbohydrate	 is	concerned,	 results	appear	to	be	mixed.	It	
appears	 that	glucose	 is	oxidized	 at	much	higher	rates	than	fructose	 and	galactose, 	
because	 the	latter	would	have	to	be	converted	 into	glucose	 in	the	liver	before	they	
can	be	metabolized.	 However,	 the	oxidation	 rates	of	maltose,	 sucrose,	 and	glucose	
polymers 	(maltodextrins) 	are	comparable 	to	those	of	glucose.	In	addition, 	starches	

Designing a healthy, competitive diet 		239
with	a	relatively	 large	amount	 of	amylopectin	 are	rapidly	digested	 and	absorbed	 and	
their	oxidation 	occurs	at	a	similar	rate	as	glucose,	whereas	those	with	high	amylase	
content	 have	a	relatively	 slow	rate	of	hydrolysis.	 A	relatively	 newer	view	has	now	been	
offered	toward	a	supplement	 that	combines	 glucose	and	fructose.	 It	is	thought	 that	
the	rate	of	exogenous	 carbohydrate	 oxidation	 is	limited	by	intestinal	 absorption	 of	
carbohydrate	 rather	than	by	gastric	emptying	 or	muscle	glucose	uptake	(		Jeukendrup 	
2004).	When	glucose	and	fructose	 are	combined,	 intestinal	 carbohydrate	 absorption 	
can	be	increased	 because	 the	two	monosaccharides	 are	carried	by	different	 transport -
ers.	In	a	study	that	used	trained	 cyclists,	 ingestion	 of	glucose	 fed	at	a	rate	of	
1.2	g	min–1	and	fructose	 at	a	rate	of	0.6	g	min–1	was	found	to	be	able	to	improve	 endur-
ance	performance	 by	8	percent	 compared	 with	ingestion	 of	glucose	 at	a	rate	of	
1.8	g	min–1	(Currell	 and	Jeukendrup	 2008).	Therefore,	 in	order	to	maximize	 carbohy-
drate	availability	 during	exercise,	 one	may	choose	to	use	glucose,	 maltose,	 sucrose,	
maltodextrins, 	or	amylopectin 	as	they	can	be	digested, 	absorbed, 	and	oxidized 	more	
rapidly,	or	consider 	using	multiple 	transportable 	carbohydrate 	products 	that	include	
glucose	and	fructose.
Dietary supplementation for recovery
Replenishing	 glycogen	 stores	following	 exhaustive	 exercise	 is	another	 important	 con-
sideration.	 When	exercise	 ends,	the	body	must	shift	from	the	catabolic	 state	of	breaking	
down	glycogen	 to	the	anabolic	 state	of	restoring	 glycogen,	 so	that	athletes	can	be	ready	
for	the	next	competition	 and	training	 session.	Often,	the	time	to	recover	between	 suc-
cessive	athletic	competitions	 or	training	 sessions	is	very	short.	In	such	cases,	rapid	glyco-
gen	repletion	 becomes	 even	more	important.	 The	timing	of	carbohydrate	 intake	can	
have	an	important	 effect	on	the	rate	of	muscle	glycogen	 synthesis	 during	recovery.	 In	an	
early	study,	Ivy	et al.	(1988b)	 observed	 that	when	carbohydrate	 intake	is	delayed	until	two	
hours	after	exercise,	 the	amount	 of	muscle	glycogen	 restored	 is	only	half	of	what	was	
achieved	 when	carbohydrate	 intake	took	place	immediately	 following	 exercise.	 Glycogen	
synthesis	 is	greatest	immediately	 after	exercise,	 because	the	muscles	are	insulin-	sensitive	
at	this	point.	It	is	also	recommended	 that	within	this	two-	hour	post-	exercise	 period	
athletes	should	consume	 carbohydrate	 in	an	amount	of	1.0	to	1.5	g	per	kg	of	body	weight	
every	hour	(Ivy	 et al.	1988a).
	 Since	 timing	is	important,	 carbohydrate	foods	 listed	with	a	moderate	to	 high	glycemic	
index	should	be	chosen	to	insure	that	more	glucose	molecules	 will	be	available	 in	the	
blood	immediately	 after	exercise.	 Athletes	 can	consume	 sugar	candies,	 sugared	 soft	
drinks,	fruit	or	fruit	juice,	or	a	sport-	type	carbohydrate	 supplement	 such	as	a	sports	bar	
or	gel	immediately	 after	training.	 Later,	they	can	choose	enriched	 bread,	mashed	pota-
toes,	and	shortgrain	 white	rice	or	spaghetti	 noodles.	 Recall	that	Table 	2.4 	shows	the	glyc-
emic	index	and	glycemic	 load	for	various	foods.	Because	 certain	amino	acids	have	a	
potent	effect	on	the	secretion	 of	insulin,	adding	an	appropriate	 amount	of	protein	(i.e.,	
in	a	ratio	of	3	grams	of	carbohydrate	 to	1	gram	of	protein)	 during	recovery	 can	be	espe-
cially	helpful	to	maximize	 glycogen	 repletion.	 For	a	70-kg	athlete,	this	corresponds	 to	
about	75	g	of	carbohydrate	 and	25	g	of	protein.	 Table 	10.4 	exhibits	sample	post-	exercise	
meals	of	this	composition.
	 Intense	 training	 and	competition	 lead	to	muscle	fatigue	and	soreness	 as	well	as	
muscle	structural	 damage,	 yet	a	proper	supply	of	amino	acids	can	augment	 protein	syn-
thesis	and	muscle	repair.	As	such,	supplementing	 protein	or	amino	acids	post	exercise	 is	
another	 important	 recovery	 strategy,	 especially	 for	those	involved	 in	resistance	 training.	
Research	 has	suggested	 that	providing	 an	ample	supply	of	amino	acids	for	the	muscles	
within	one	to	three	hours	following	 exercise	 may	help	further	stimulate	 protein	synthesis	

240		 Designing a healthy, competitive diet
(Wolfe	2001).	Gibala	(2002)	also	indicated	 that	consuming	 a	drink	containing	 0.1	g	of	
essential	 amino	acids	per	kg	body	mass	during	first	the	first	hours	of	recovery	 from	heavy	
resistance	 would	produce	 a	more	profound	 increase	 in	protein	synthesis.	 Such	a	dose	
(i.e.,	7	g	of	essential	 amino	acids	for	a	70-kg	athlete)	of	essential	 amino	acids	is	different	
when	a	complete	 protein	is	consumed.	 In	a	study	that	examined	 the	impact	of	a	protein	
dose	on	muscle	protein	 synthesis	 following	 resistance	 exercise,	 Moore	 et al.	(2009)	
observed	 a	dose-	dependent	 increase	 in	protein	 synthesis.	 This	study,	however,	 also	
revealed	 that	ingestion	 of	20	g	of	intact	protein	is	sufficient	 to	maximally	 stimulate	
protein	synthesis.	 Just	as	with	carbohydrate,	 the	timing	of	taking	protein	or	amino	acids	
is	important	 as	well.	The	increased	 blood	flow	to	the	muscles	 during	the	immediate	
recovery	 period	may	permit	a	more	effective	 delivery	 of	the	amino	acids	needed	for	
protein	synthesis.	 When	supplementing	 protein	post	exercise,	 the	use	of	a	more	easily	
absorbable	 protein,	 such	as	whey,	is	recommended.	 In	a	study	involving	 a	ten-	week	resist-
ance	training	 program,	 Cribb	and	Hayes	(2006)	found	that	consuming	 a	supplement	
containing	 protein,	 creatine,	 and	glucose	immediately	 before	and	after	training	 resulted	
in	a	greater	increase	 in	muscle	mass	and	strength	 as	compared	 to	consuming	 the	same	
supplement	 in	the	morning	 and	evening.	 While	this	study	tends	to	support	the	idea	of	
taking	protein	 soon	after	exercise,	 results	of	this	study	should	be	interpreted	 with	
caution	because	 the	supplement	 mix	also	contains	 creatine,	 which	by	itself	increases	
muscle	mass.
Summary
•	 A	person’s	 nutritional	 state	may	be	categorized	 as	desirable	 nutrition,	 in	which	the	
body	maintains	 adequate	 stores	for	times	of	increasing	 need;	under-	nutrition,	 which	
may	be	present	with	or	without	clinical	symptoms;	 and	over-	nutrition,	 which	can	
lead	to	toxicities	and	various	chronic	diseases.
•	 Nutrition	 recommendations	 made	to	the	public	for	health	promotion	 and	disease	
prevention	 are	based	on	available	 scientific	 knowledge.	 Dietary	standards	 such	as	
the	Dietary	Reference	 Intakes	provide	 recommendations	 for	intakes	of	nutrients	
and	other	food	components	 that	may	be	used	to	plan	and	assess	the	diets	of	indi-
viduals	and	populations.
•	 The	 Dietary	Reference	 Intakes	(DRIs)	represent	 a	set	of	four	types	of	nutrient	 intake	
reference	 standards	 used	to	assess	and	plan	dietary	intake.	They	include:	 (1)	Estim-
ated	Average	Requirements	 (EARs),	(2)	Recommended	 Dietary	Allowances	 (RDAs),	
(3)	Adequate	Intake	Levels	(AIs),	and	(4)	Tolerable	Upper	Intake	Levels	(UIs).
•	 The	 DRIs	also	include	 calculations	 for	Estimated	 Energy	Requirement	 (EERs),	
which	may	be	used	to	assess	whether	 one’s	energy	intake	is	sufficient,	 and	Accept-
able	Macronutrient	 Distribution	 (AMDRs),	 which	provide	a	recommended	 distribu-
tion	of	macronutrients	in	terms	of	energy	consumption.
•	 To	follow	the	Dietary	Guidelines,	 one	must	keep	in	mind	the	five	diet-	planning	 prin-
ciples:	(1)	adequacy,	 (2)	balance,	 (3)	nutrient	 density,	 (4)	moderation,	 and	
(5)	variety.	Adequacy	 means	that	diet	provides	 sufficient	 energy	and	enough	of	all	
the	nutrients	 to	meet	the	needs	of	healthy	people;	balance	 involves	 consuming	
enough,	 but	not	too	much,	of	each	type	of	food;	nutrient	 density	concerns	 the	
amounts	 of	nutrients	 that	are	in	a	food	relative	to	its	energy	content;	 moderation	
concerns	 not	consuming	 too	much	of	a	particular	 food;	and	variety	emphasizes	 the	
importance	of	consuming	different	foods	within	each	food	group.
•	 MyPyramid	 is	designed	 to	translate	 nutrient	 recommendations	 into	a	food	plan	that	
exhibits	 variety,	balance,	 and	moderation.	 This	meal-	planning	 tool	incorporates	
one’s	physical	 activity	pattern	and	emphasizes	 the	balance	 between	 energy	intake	

Designing a healthy, competitive diet   241
and	energy	expenditure.	 It	entails	six	food	groups,	including	 grains,	vegetables,	
fruits,	oils,	dairy	products,	 and	meats	and	beans	that	are	represented	 in	different	
colors,	each	with	different	widths.
•	 Anyone	 who	exercises	 regularly	 should	consume	 a	diet	that	meets	calorie	needs	and	
is	moderate	 to	high	in	carbohydrate	 and	fluid	and	adequate	 in	other	nutrients	 such	
as	iron	and	calcium.	 In	general,	 the	diet	of	an	active	individual	 should	contain	about	
45	to	65	percent	of	total	energy	as	carbohydrate;	 20	to	35	percent	of	energy	as	fat;	
and	about	10	to	35	percent	of	energy	as	protein.
•	 Plenty	 of	carbohydrates	 should	be	included	 in	the	pre-	event	meal,	especially	 for	
endurance	 athletes.	 High-	glycemic	 index	carbohydrates	 should	be	consumed	 by	an	
athlete	within	two	hours	following	 a	workout	 to	begin	restoration	 of	muscle	glyco-
gen	stores.	Mixing	some	protein	into	the	post-	exercise	 meal	may	make	glycogen	
restoration	more	effective.
•	 Competitive	 endurance	 athletes	may	utilize	glycogen	 supercompensation	 regimens	
to	maximize	glycogen	stores	before	an	event.
•	 Supplementing	 carbohydrate	 and	protein	post	exercise	 is	an	important	 considera -
tion,	especially	 when	the	time	to	recover	between	 successive	 athletic	competitions	 or	
training	 sessions	 is	very	short.	To	maximize	 its	efficacy,	 it	is	recommended	 that	
athletes	consume	 more	easily	absorbable	 forms,	such	as	high	glycemic	 index	carbo-
hydrate	and	whey,	soon	after	training	or	competitions.
•	 Athletes	 should	consume	 enough	fluid	and	ultimately	 restore	pre-	exercise	 weight.	
Sports	drinks	help	replace	fluid,	electrolytes,	 and	carbohydrate	 lost	during	work-
outs.	Their	use	is	especially	 appropriate	 and	important	 when	continuous	 activity	
lasts	beyond	60	minutes.
Case study: planning a training diet properly
Tom	is	training	 for	a	triathlon	 event	coming	up	in	three	weeks’	time.	He	has	read	a	
lot	about	sports	nutrition 	and	especially 	about	the	importance 	of	eating	a	high-	
carbohydrate	 diet	while	in	training.	 He	has	also	been	struggling	 to	keep	his	weight	
within	a	range	that	he	feels	he	can	perform	 to	the	best	of	his	potential.	 Con-
sequently, 	he	is	trying	to	eat	as	little	as	possible. 	Over	the	past	two	weeks	Tom	has	
been	feeling	weak,	and	his	workouts	 in	the	afternoons	 have	not	met	his	expectations. 	
His	run	times	are	slower	and	he	shows	signs	of	fatigue	after	just	20	minutes	into	his	
training	program.
	 Tom’s	 dietary	records	reveal	that	his	breakfast	 the	previous	 day	was	a	large	bagel,	a	
small	amount	 of	cream	cheese,	and	a	cup	of	apple	juice.	For	lunch,	he	had	a	small	
salad	with	low-	fat	dressing,	 a	large	plate	of	pasta	with	marinara	 sauce	and	broccoli, 	
and	a	diet	soda.	For	dinner,	he	had	a	small	broiled	chicken	 breast,	a	cup	of	rice,	
some	carrots,	and	a	glass	of	ice	tea.	Later,	he	snacked	on	fat-	free	pretzels	with	a	glass	
of	water.
Questions
•	 Tom	 is	on	the	high-	carbohydrate	 diet,	but	why	did	he	experience	 weakness	 and	
fatigue?
•	 Provide	 some	changes	 that	should	be	made	in	Tom’s	diet,	including	 certain	specific	
foods.
•	 Are	there	any	other	recommendations	 you	may	have	to	help	Tom	maintain	 his	
training	quality	and	prevent	fatigue?

242  Designing a healthy, competitive diet
Review questions
	1	 Describe	 the	concepts	 of	“estimated	 average	requirements	 (EAR),”	 “recommended 	
daily	allowances	(RDA),”	and	“acceptable	macronutrient	distribution	ranges	(AMDR).”
	2	 How	would	you	explain	the	concept	of	nutrient	density?
	3	 Estimate	 your	energy	requirements	 using	the	EER	formula.	 Discuss	those	major	
factors	that	can	influence	this	estimate.
	4	 Specify	 the	acceptable	 macronutrient	 distribution	 ranges	for	carbohydrate,	 fats,	and	
protein.
	5	 What	are	the	recommended	 daily	intakes	of	fiber	and	sugar?	Why	should	we	maxi-
mize	fiber	intake	and	minimize	sugar	intake	as	part	of	healthy	eating?
	6	 How	should	the	total	daily	fat	intake	be	distributed	 between	 saturated,	 monounsatu -
rated,	and	polyunsaturated	 fatty	acids?	Provide	some	food	examples	 for	each	type	
of	fat.
	7	 What	is	the	recommended	 intakes	of	protein	for	(1)	average	individuals,	 (2)	endurance-
	trained	athletes,	and	(3)	strength-	 trained	athletes?
	8	 What	are	the	major	nutrients	 and	nutrition	 parameters	 found	in	the	Nutrition	 Facts	
panel?	How	are	percentage	daily	values	determined?
	9	 An	active	person	is	recommended	 to	make	up	55	percent	of	his	total	caloric	intake	
as	carbohydrate.	 If	his	or	her	average	caloric	intake	is	3000	kcal/day,	 how	much	car-
bohydrate	in	grams	should	he	or	she	consume	per	day?
10	 Identify	 special	roles	played	by	carbohydrate	 and	protein	 in	improving	 athletic	
performance.
11	 What	 are	the	recommended	 intakes	of	protein	for	someone	 pursuing	 (1)	endurance	
training,	 (2)	resistance	 training	 associated	 with	weight	maintenance,	 and	(3)	resist-
ance	training	associated	with	hypertrophy?
12	 What	 is	glycogen	 supercompensation	 or	carbohydrate	 loading?	 Explain	 how	this	
dietary	manipulation	is	carried	out.
13	 Discuss	pre-	 game	nutrition	guidelines.
14	 What	 are	the	key	elements	 of	in-	game	nutrition	 guidelines?	 What	is	the	maximal	
dose	of	carbohydrate	 that	should	be	consumed	 during	an	endurance	 event?	How	is	
this	dose	determined?
15	 What	 are	the	dietary	recommendations	 for	replenishing	 muscle	glycogen	 following	
an	exhaustive	exercise?
16	 Describe	 the	essence	of	a	ketogenic	 diet	and	its	positive	effects	on	the	brain,	fat	
tissue,	and	muscle.
Suggested reading
	1	 Brooks	 GA,	Butte	NF,	Rand	WM,	Flatt	JP,	Caballero	 B	(2004)	Chronicle	 of	the	Insti-
tute	of	Medicine	 physical	 activity	recommendation:	 how	a	physical	 activity	recom-
mendation	 came	to	be	among	dietary	recommendations.	 American Journal of Clinical 
Nutrition,	79:	921S–930S.
 This article reviews the scientific literature regarding macronutrients and energy, and develops 
estimates of daily intake that are compatible with good nutrition throughout the life span and 
that may decrease the risk of chronic disease. The article emphasizes the concept of energy balance 
and suggests that physical activity recommendations must consider one’s energy intake status.
	2	 Burke	 LM,	Cox	GR,	Culmmings	 NK,	Desbrow	 B	(2001)	Guidelines	 for	daily	carbohy-
drate	intake:	do	athletes	achieve	them?	 Sports Medicine ,	31:	267–299.
 This article discusses in particular the dietary guidelines designed for athletes to achieve high 
carbohydrate intakes. It provides recommendations for routine carbohydrate intake, but also 
analyzes the current status of athletes in meeting their energy needs and dietary goals.

Designing a healthy, competitive diet   243
	3	 Jeukendrup	 AE	(2004)	Carbohydrate	 intake	during	exercise	 and	performance.	 Nutri-
tion,	20:	669–677.
 This article discusses various strategies of consuming or supplementing carbohydrate aimed to 
enhance athletic performance. Among the major intriguing issues discussed include the type and 
dose of carbohydrate, the rate of ingestion, and the timing of supplementation.
	4	 Seal	CJ	(2006)	Whole	grains	and	CVD	risk.	 Proceedings of the Nutrition Society ,	65:	
24–34.
 This article provides a thorough review of literature on the protective effect of wholegrains 
against cardiovascular diseases. Particularly unique is that this article also discusses the under -
lying mechanisms of such protective effect.
Glossary
Acceptable macronutrient distributions (AMDRs) 	a	standard	 that	provides	 recom-
mended	distributions	of	macronutrients	in	terms	of	energy	consumption.
Adequacy 	means	that	diet	provides	 sufficient	 energy	and	enough	of	all	the	nutrients	 to	
meet	the	needs	of	healthy	people.
Adequate intake levels (AIs) 	standard	 values	that	represent	 the	average	daily	amount	
of a nutrient that appears sufficient to maintain a specific criterion and often used 
when	DRI	and	RDA	are	not	available.
Balance	consuming	enough,	but	not	too	much,	of	each	type	of	food.
Daily value 	information	 found	on	food	labels	that	provides	 a	guide	to	the	nutrients	 in	
one	serving	of	food	and	based	on	a	2000-kilocalorie	diet.
Dietary Guidelines for Americans 	dietary	recommendations	 issued	by	the	U.S.	Depart-
ment	of	Health	and	Human	 Services	 (DHHS)	 to	provide	 specific	advice	on	how	
good	dietary	habits	can	promote	 health	and	reduce	risk	for	major	chronic	
disease.
Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs) 	a	set	of	nutritional	 standards	 used	for	assessing	 the	
adequacy	of	a	person’s	diet.
Discretionary calories 	calories	 allowed	 from	food	choices	rich	in	added	sugars	and	
solid	fat.
Essential nutrients 	nutrients	necessary	to	sustain	life.
Estimated average requirements (EARs) 	standard	 values	that	represent	 the	average	
daily	amount	necessary	 to	maintain	 a	specific	biochemical	 or	physiological	 function	
in	half	the	healthy	people	of	a	given	age	and	gender	group.
Estimated energy requirements (EERs) 	a	measure	 used	to	assess	whether	 one’s	energy	
intake	is	sufficient.
Female athlete triad 	a	condition	 that	includes	 disordered	 eating,	amenorrhea,	 and	
osteoporosis	and	that	is	often	found	in	competitive	female	athletes.
Glycogen supercompensation 	a	diet	and	exercise	 regimen	 aimed	to	increase	 muscle	
glycogen	stores	to	a	level	greater	than	that	achieved	in	a	typical	diet.
Health claims 	information	 found	on	food	labels	that	describes	 a	relationship	 between	
a	nutrient	or	a	food	and	the	risk	of	a	disease	or	health-	 related	condition.
Moderation 	not	to	consume	too	much	of	a	particular	food.
Nonessential nutrients 	nutrients	 the	body	can	make	in	sufficient	 amounts	 when	they	
are	needed.
Nutrient content claims 	information	 found	on	food	labels	that	describes	 the	content	
level	of	a	nutrient	in	a	food.
Nutrient density 	the	amounts	 of	nutrients	 that	are	in	a	food	relative	to	its	energy	
content.

244  Designing a healthy, competitive diet
Recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) 	standard	 values	that	represent	 the	average	
daily	amount	of	a	nutrient	 considered	 adequate	 to	meet	the	known	nutrient	 needs	
of	nearly	all	healthy	people	of	a	given	age	and	gender	group.
Tolerable upper intake levels (ULs) 	standard	 values	that	represent	 the	maximum	 daily	
amount	of	a	nutrient	that	appears	safe	for	most	healthy	people.
Variety	consuming	different	foods	within	each	food	group.

11 Ergogenic aids and supplements
Contents
Key terms 246
Ergogenic aid: an area of complexity and controversy 246
•	 What	is	an	ergogenic	aid?	 247
•	 Why	are	ergogenic	aids	popular?	 247
•	 Non-	regulation	of	sports	supplements	 247
•	 Legality	of	ergogenic	aids	 248
Critical	evaluation	of	ergogenic	aids	 249
•	 Rationale	and	justification	 249
•	 Subjects	 249
•	 Research	design	 249
•	 Testing	and	measurement	 250
•	 Conclusions	 250
•	 Dissemination	 251
Sports	foods	 251
•	 Sports	bars	 251
•	 Sports	drinks	 252
Sports	supplements	 254
•	 Arginine,	ornithine,	and	lysine	 254
•	 Bicarbonate	loading	 255
•	 Boron	 258
•	 Branched-	 chain	amino	acids	(BCAA)	 258
•	 Caffeine	 259
•	 Carnitine	(L-	 carnitine)	 261
•	 Chromium	 262
•	 Coenzyme	Q	10	(ubiquinone)	 262
•	 Creatine	 263
•	 DHEA	and	androstenedione	 265
•	 Ephedrine	 267
•	 Glutamine	 269
•	 Glycerol	 269
•	 Hydroxy	citric	acid	(HCA)	 270
•	β-hydroxy-	 β-methylbutyrate	(HMB)	 271
•	 Inosine	 272
•	 Nitric	oxide	(NO)	 272

246  Ergogenic aids and supplements
•	 Phosphate	 273
•	 Synephrine	 274
•	 Whey	and	casein	 274
Summary	 275
Case	study	 276
Review	questions	 276
Suggested	reading	 277
Glossary	 277
Key terms
•	β-hydroxy-	 β-methylbutyrate	 •	 Androstenedione
•	 ATP	citrate	lyase	 •	 Bicarbonate
•	 Boron	 •	 Branched-	 chain	amino	acids
•	 Caffeine	 •	 Casein
•	 Chromium	 •	 Coenzyme	Q	10
•	 Creatine	 •	 Dehydroepiandrosterone
•	 Doping	 •	 Ephedrine
•	 Ergogenic	 •	 Ergolytic
•	 Glutamine	 •	 Glycerol
•	 Hydroxy	citric	acid	 •	 Inosine
•	 L-	carnitine	 •	 Nitric	oxide
•	Phosphat e	loading	 •	 Sports	supplements
•	 Synephrine	 •	 Whey
Ergogenic aid: an area of complexity and controversy
By	nature,	athletes	demand	a	competitive 	attitude.	The	athlete	may	desire	to	outperform	
the	opponent,	 or	may	compete	 with	themselves	 while	striving	to	maximize	 personal	 poten-
tial.	This	drive	to	success	has	fueled	a	sustained	 growing	 market	of	sports	supplements. 	
Many	men	and	women	at	all	levels	of	prowess	use	pharmacologic	 and	chemical	 agents,	
believing	 that	a	specific	substance	 positively	 influences	 strength,	 power,	or	endurance. 	
Such	a	quest	for	reaching	 the	maximum	 of	physical	 performance	 or	aesthetics	 can	be	
traced	back	to	ancient	times.	For	example,	 athletes	of	ancient	Greece	reportedly	 used	hal-
lucinogenic	 mushrooms	 and	ground	dog	testicles	for	ergogenic	 purposes,	 while	athletes	of	
the	Victorian	 era	routinely	 used	caffeine,	 alcohol,	nitroglycerine,	 heroin,	cocaine,	 and	rat	
poison	strychnine	 to	gain	a	competitive	 edge.	Today’s	athletes	are	perhaps	 more	likely	
than	their	predecessors	 to	experiment	 with	purported	 ergogenic	 aids	even	though	most	of	
them	may	not	have	been	substantiated. 	Two	key	factors	important 	to	athletic	success	are	
genetic	endowment	 and	state	of	training.	 At	high	levels	of	competition,	 athletes	generally 	
have	similar	athleticism	 and	have	been	exposed	 to	similar	training	 methods.	 Therefore, 	
they	are	fairly	evenly	matched. 	Given	the	emphasis 	on	winning,	many	athletes	are	always	
searching	 for	a	“magic”	ingredient	 that	provides	 them	with	that	extra	winning	edge.	When	
such	ingredients	 are	harmless	 they	are	merely	a	waste	of	money,	but	when	they	impair	per-
formance	 or	harm	health	they	can	waste	athletic	potential	 and	cost	lives.	This	chapter	will	
review	some	of	the	commonly	 used	nutritional	 substances	 and	ergogenic	 products	 that	
have	been	claimed	to	affect	basal	metabolism,	 food	consumption,	 energy	transformation, 	
fat	utilization,	and/or	sports	performance.

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		247
What is an ergogenic aid?
The	word	“ergogenic ”	is	derived	from	the	Greek	words	 ergo	(meaning	 work)	and	 gen 
(meaning	 production	 of	),	and	is	defined	as	increasing	 work	or	potential	 to	do	work.	Ergo-
genic	aids	consist	of	substances	 or	procedures	 that	improve	 physical	work	capacity,	 physio-
logical	function,	 or	athletic	performance.	 An	ergogenic	 aid	does	not	need	to	be	nutritional 	
or	pharmacological;	 it	can	also	be	mechanical,	 psychological,	 or	physiological.	 Mechanical 	
aids	are	designed	 to	increase	 energy	efficiency,	 thereby	improving	 mechanical	 advantage. 	
One	example	 of	using	such	an	ergogenic	 aid	is	where	runners	 wear	lightweight	 racing	
shoes	so	that	less	energy	is	needed	to	move	the	legs.	Psychological 	aids	are	designed 	to	
enhance	 the	psychological	 process	or	mental	strength	 during	sports	competitions.	 One	
example	 of	using	such	an	ergogenic	 aid	is	the	mental	conditioning	 through	 hypnosis	 that	
some	athletes	use	to	minimize	 distractions,	 thereby	enhancing	 their	performance.	 Physio-
logical	aids,	which	will	be	further	discussed 	along	with	nutritional 	or	pharmacological 	aids	
in	this	chapter,	 are	designed	 to	augment	 natural	physiological	 processes	 to	increase	 phys-
ical	power.	Blood	transfusion	 and	bicarbonate	 loading	are	the	two	common	 examples	 of	
using	such	aids	for	enhancing	 performance.	 This	chapter	will	be	mostly	devoted	to	the	dis-
cussion	of	various	nutritional	 and	pharmacological	 ergogenic	 aids.	These	ergogenic	 aids,	
collectively regarded as sports supplements ,	are	concerned	 with	the	use	of	nutrients	 or	
chemical	 compounds,	 or	drugs	believed	 to	be	effective	 in	enhancing	 physiological	 or	psy-
chological	 functions.	 For	example,	 anabolic	 steroids,	 drugs	that	mimic	the	actions	of	the	
male	sex	hormone	 testosterone,	 may	increase	muscle	size	and	strength,	 but,	to	avoid	poten-
tial	side-	effects	of	taking	this	drug,	strength-	 trained	athletes	may	consider	 using	a	nutri-
tional	approach	by	taking	protein	supplements	instead	for	the	same	purpose.
Why are ergogenic aids popular?
Weight	loss	and	muscle	gain	are	important	concerns	for	many	athletes	as	well	as	for	indi -
viduals	not	involved	 in	athletic	training.	 Because	 achieving	 these	goals	is	very	difficult	
with	conventional	 methods	 such	as	increasing	 energy	expenditure	 through	 physical	
activity,	using	supplements	 that	may	potentiate	 or	replace	the	effect	of	training	 becomes	
an	attractive	 option.	Many	athletes	believe	that	certain	foods	may	possess	magic	qualities.	
Since	sports	supplements	 are	not	regulated	 by	the	government	 agency,	such	as	the	FDA,	
the	media	become	 consumers’	 leading	source	of	nutrition	 information,	 but	many	news	
reports	of	nutrition	 research	 often	provide	inadequate	 depth	for	consumers	 to	make	
wise	decisions.	 For	example,	 isolated	 nutrition	 facts	may	be	distorted	 or	results	of	a	
single	study	or	studies	from	non-	peer-reviewed	 journals	 are	used	to	market	a	specific	
product.	 Many	of	these	products	 are	endorsed	 by	professional	 athletes,	 giving	products	
an	aura	of	respectability.	 Specific	 supplements	 may	also	be	recommended	 by	coaches	
and	fellow	athletes.	 However,	 research	 studies	reveal	that	many	coaches	have	poor	back-
grounds	 in	nutrition,	 suggesting	 that	misconceptions	 adopted	 by	coaches	 may	be	per-
petuated	 in	their	athletes.	 It	has	been	estimated	 that	more	than	50	percent	of	all	athletes	
have	used	some	form	of	nutritional	 or	pharmacological	 supplement	 and	some	athletes	
use	several	supplements	 at	the	same	time	and	in	very	high	doses	(Burke	and	Reed	1993).	
Use	of	dietary	supplements	 has	also	been	found	to	be	prevalent	 among	high	school	and	
collegiate	athletes,	military	personnel,	and	fitness	club	members.
Non- regulation of sports supplements
In	contrast	 to	prescription	 drugs,	which	are	carefully	 regulated,	 nutrition	 supplements	
and	ergogenic	 aids	receive	very	little	government	 oversight,	 and	manufacturers	 and	

248		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
retailers	 have	enormous	 freedom	 in	making	 claims	to	promote	 the	product.	 For	
example,	 the	FDA	strictly	regulates	 the	clinical	testing,	advertising,	 and	the	promotion	
of	foods	and	drugs,	so	that	those	products	 which	fail	clinical	trials	or	are	marketed	 by	
unproven	 claims	will	not	be	allowed	to	go	on	sale.	Drugs	are	extensively	 tested	for	safety	
before	they	may	be	sold,	but	nutritional	 supplements	 are	not.	The	FDA	regulates	 nutri-
tional	supplements	 under	a	different	 set	of	regulations	 than	those	covering	 “conven-
tional”	foods	and	drug	products.	 In	accordance	 with	the	Dietary	Supplement	 Health	and	
Education	 Act	of	1994,	the	FDA	requires	 that	the	dietary	supplement	 manufacturer	 is	
responsible	 for	ensuring	 that	a	dietary	supplement	 is	safe	before	it	is	marketed,	 and	will	
take	action	against	any	unsafe	dietary	supplement	 product	 after	it	reaches	the	market.	
Generally,	 manufacturers	 do	not	need	to	register	their	products	 with	the	FDA	nor	get	
FDA	approval	 before	producing	 or	selling	dietary	supplements.	 The	dietary	supplements	
being	referred	 to	by	the	FDA	are	vitamins,	 minerals,	 herbs	and	botanicals,	 amino	acids,	
dietary	substances	 intended	 to	supplement	 the	diet	by	increasing	 the	total	dietary	intake	
(e.g.,	enzyme	or	tissue),	or	any	concentrate,	metabolite,	constituent,	or	extract.
Legality of ergogenic aids
The	use	of	pharmacological	 agents	to	enhance	 performance	 in	sport	has	been	prohibited 	
by	the	governing 	bodies	of	most	organized 	sports.	The	use	of	drugs	in	sports	is	known	as	
doping,	and	the	Medical	Commission 	of	the	International 	Olympic	Committee 	(IOC)	has	
provided	 an	extensive	 list	of	drugs	and	doping	techniques	 that	have	been	prohibited 	
(Table	11.1 	and	www.usada.org).	 The	specific	banned	substances	 and	methods	 listed	by	
the	World	Anti-	Doping	Agency	are	provided	 in	Appendix	 F.	At	the	present	time,	all	essen-
tial	nutrients	 are	not	classified	 as	drugs	and	are	considered	 legal	for	use	in	conjunction 	
with	athletic	competition.	 Most	other	food	substances	 and	constituents	 sold	as	dietary	sup-
plements	 are	also	legal.	However,	 some	dietary	supplements	 are	prohibited,	 such	as	dehy-
droepiandrosterone	 (DHEA)	 and	androstenedione	 because	they	are	classified	 as	anabolic	
steroids.	Others	may	have	prohibited 	substances 	included. 	For	example, 	many	weight	loss	
products	 contain	ephedrine	 or	amphetamine,	 a	stimulant	 that	is	considered	 an	illegal	drug	
by	many	sports	organizations.	 It	is	hoped	that,	with	pending	 legislation,	 all	ingredients	 will	
be	listed	in	correct	amounts	 on	dietary	supplement	 labels.	In	the	meantime,	 athletes	
should	consult	with	appropriate	 authorities	 before	using	any	sports	nutrition	 supplements 	
marketed	 as	performance	 enhancers,	 although	 the	use	of	sports	supplements	 is	completely 	
at	the	athlete’s	own	risk,	even	if	the	supplements	are	“approved”	or	“verified.”
Table 11.1 	International	Olympic	Committee	Medical	Commission	doping	categories
Doping	classes •	Stimulants
•	Narcotics
•	Anabolic	agents
•	Diuretics
•	Peptide	and	glycoprotein	hormones	and	analogs
Doping	method •	Blood	doping
•	Pharmacological,	chemical,	and	physical	manipulation
Classes	of	drugs	subject	to	
certain restrictions•	Alcohol
•	Marijuana
•	Local	anesthetics
•	Corticosteriods
•	ß-blockers
•	Specified	 ß2-agonists

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		249
Critical evaluation of ergogenic aids
Manufacturers	 expend	considerable	 money	and	effort	to	show	a	beneficial	 effect	of	an	
ergogenic	 aid.	Often,	however,	 a	“placebo	 effect”	and	not	the	aid	per	se	improves	 the	
performance	 due	to	psychological	 factors.	In	other	words,	the	individual	 performs	 at	a	
high	level	because	 of	the	suggestive	 power	of	believing	 that	a	substance	 or	procedure	
should	work.	Athletes	 and	others	must	critically	 examine	 claims	made	by	the	dietary	sup-
plements	 industry,	 including	 the	scientific	 evidence	 that	supports	 the	claims.	The	follow-
ing	are	six	areas	for	questioning	 the	validity	of	research	 claims	concerning	 the	efficacy	of	
ergogenic	aids.
Rationale and justification
Does	the	study	have	s	sound	rationale	 and	clear	hypothesis	 that	a	specific	treatment	 or	
supplement	 should	produce	 an	effect?	A	well-	designed	 study	has	a	clear	hypothesis	 and	
a	strong	theoretical	 basis	for	the	expected	 outcome.	 For	example,	 a	theoretical	 basis	
exists	to	believe	that	ingesting	 carbohydrate	 solution	 will	provide	an	extra	energy	source	
to	improve	 endurance	 performance.	 However,	 no	rationale	 exists	to	hypothesize	 that	
carbohydrate	 loading	should	enhance	 short-	term	power	performance	 such	as	a	100-	and	
200-m	dash.	In	addition,	 some	studies	are	designed	 with	a	“shotgun”	 approach	 that	lacks	
a	clear	hypothesis.	 These	types	of	studies	often	wind	up	measuring	 many	different	 vari-
ables,	some	of	which	bear	no	theoretical	 link	to	the	supplement	 being	examined.	 The	
more	variables	examined,	the	greater	chance	that	some	of	them	will	change.
Subjects
Was	the	study	conducted	 using	cells,	muscles,	 animals,	 or	humans?	 Often	results	are	
extrapolated	 from	findings	 in	the	cell	cultures.	 These	 in- vitro	experiments	 can	help	our	
understanding	 of	molecular	 interactions	 at	cellular	level.	However,	 in- vivo	situations	 may	
be	very	different.	 Muscle	cells	in	the	body	may	behave	differently	 than	isolated	muscle	
cell	preparations.	 Even	if	living	animals	 are	used,	the	physiology	 and	metabolism	 of	
animals	can	be	very	different	 from	those	of	humans.	 Compared	 with	humans,	 rats	have	a	
relatively	 small	store	of	intramuscular	 triglycerides.	 In	addition,	 high-	fat	diets	in	rats	
have	been	shown	to	improve	 exercise	 performance,	 but	no	evidence	 indicates	 that	high-	
fat	diets	improve	 performance	 in	humans.	 Even	within	humans,	 caution	is	needed	to	
generalize	 findings	 across	populations	 of	different	 age,	gender,	training	 level,	and	nutri-
tion	and	health	status.	Alcohol	seems	to	impact	women	more	profoundly	 than	men	due	
to	body-	size	difference.	 Coenzyme	 Q	10	supplementation	 improves	 VO2max and exercise 
capacity	 in	cardiac	patients,	 but	has	no	such	benefits	in	healthy	individuals.	 In	addition,	
supplemental	 iron	enhances	 aerobic	capacity	 in	a	group	with	iron-	deficient	 anemia.	
However,	one	cannot	generalize	that	iron	supplementation	will	benefit	all	individuals.
Research design
Were	the	experimental	 trials	randomized?	 Was	the	study’s	double-	blind	placebo	control-
led?	How	were	extraneous	 variables	 controlled?	 These	are	the	important	 questions	 in	
terms	of	research	 design	that	must	be	considered	 by	investigators	 prior	to	the	start	of	
data	collection.	 If	subjects	“self-	select”	into	a	treatment	 group,	a	question	 will	arise	as	to	
whether	 the	results	are	produced	 by	the	treatment	 per	se	or	by	a	change	due	to	subjects’	
motivation.	 For	example,	 the	desire	to	enter	a	weight	loss	program	 may	elicit	behaviors	
that	produce	 weight	loss	independent	 of	the	treatment.	 Randomization	 reduces	 the	

250		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
confounding	 effects	of	variables	 that	were	not	controlled	 or	could	not	be	controlled.	
However,	 great	difficulties	 exist	in	assigning	 truly	random	 samples	 of	subjects	 into	a	
treatment	and	a	control	group.	When	a	small	number	of	subjects	(i.e.,	n	 =	10)	are	used,	a	
so-	called	counterbalanced	 design	is	preferred.	 A	counterbalance	 procedure	 is	to	assign	
subjects	into	either	a	treatment	 or	a	control	condition,	 but	the	decision	 as	to	which	five	
of	the	ten	subjects	will	take	part	in	which	condition	 is	random.	 In	this	procedure,	 each	
group	receives	 treatments	 in	a	different	 order.	In	other	words,	half	of	the	subjects	 will	
take	the	supplement	 first;	the	other	half	will	take	the	placebo	first.	Failure	to	randomize	
treatments	 in	a	study	may	confound	 the	outcome	 and	hence	make	any	conclusion	
untrustworthy.
	 The	ideal	experiment 	to	evaluate	the	ergogenic 	effect	of	a	supplement 	requires	
that	treatment	 and	control	subjects	 remain	unaware	 or	“blinded”	 to	the	substance 	
administered.	 To	achieve	this	goal,	while	all	subjects	 should	receive	a	similar	quantity	
and/or	form	of	the	proposed	 aid,	the	control	group	receives	 an	inert	compound	 or	
placebo.	 The	placebo	 treatment	 evaluates	 the	possibility	 of	subjects	 performing	 well	
simply	because	 they	receive	a	substance	 they	believe	should	benefit	them.	If	subjects	
have	prior	knowledge	 or	expectations	 with	respect	to	a	treatment	 or	supplement,	 their	
performance	 could	be	affected.	 To	further	reduce	bias	from	influencing	 the	experi-
mental	outcomes, 	those	who	administer 	the	treatment 	and	measure 	the	outcomes	
must	also	be	unaware	 of	which	subject	receives	 the	treatment	 or	placebo.	 In	such	a	
double-	blinded	experiment, 	both	investigator 	and	subjects	remain	unaware 	of	the	
treatment	 condition.	 It	must	be	noted	that	with	some	nutrition	 interventions,	 match-
ing	placebos,	 especially	 those	that	produce	 the	same	taste,	are	difficult	 to	find.	There-
fore,	despite	the	use	of	a	double-	blind,	placebo	 control	procedure,	 some	studies	may	
still	bear	the	limitation	associated	with	the	fact	that	subjects	may	be	aware	of	what	they 	
receive.
	 In	an	ideal	study,	all	variables	 and	conditions	 should	be	made	as	identical	 as	possible,	
so	that	the	only	difference	 between	 the	experimental	 trials	is	the	treatment,	 whether	
supplement	 or	placebo,	 each	group	receives.	 In	doing	so,	all	observed	 changes	 may	be	
ascribed	with	great	confidence	to	the	treatment.
Testing and measurement
Reproducible,	 objective,	 and	valid	measurement	 tools	must	be	used	to	evaluate	 research	
outcomes.	 For	example,	 it	would	not	be	ideal	to	use	a	step	test	to	determine	 one’s	
aerobic	capacity	 or	to	use	infrared	 interactance	 to	estimate	 one’s	body	composition	
because	these	tools	have	a	relatively	 large	margin	of	error,	especially	 if	the	change	to	be	
detected	 is	rather	small.	If	a	treatment	 or	supplement	 is	said	to	have	no	effect,	perhaps	
the	particular	 method	 used	in	the	study	was	not	sensitive	 enough	to	pick	up	the	small	
differences.	 A	small	change	in	performance	 (i.e.,	<3	percent)	 that	is	undetectable	 in	a	
laboratory	setting	may	determine	success	or	failure	in	a	sports	event.
Conclusions
The	conclusions	 of	a	research	 study	must	logically	 follow	the	research	 outcomes	 that	
are	supported 	by	statistical 	analysis.	Sometimes, 	investigators 	who	study	ergogenic 	aids	
extrapolate	 conclusions	 beyond	what	their	data	suggest.	 The	implication	 and	generali-
zation	of	research	 findings	 must	remain	within	the	subjects	 studied,	 the	context	 of	
measurements	 made,	and	the	magnitude	 of	the	response.	 For	example,	 increases	 in	tes-
tosterone	 levels	as	a	result	of	a	dietary	supplement	 reflect	just	that;	they	do	not	neces-
sarily	indicate	 an	increase	 in	muscle	 size	and	contractile	 function.	 A	correct	

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		251
interpretation	 of	statistical	 analysis	may	be	another	 obstacle	 to	many	consumers.	 Inves-
tigators	 must	ensure	that	the	appropriate	 inferential	 statistical	 analysis	 is	used	to	
quantify	 the	potential	 that	chance	caused	the	research	 outcome.	 The	finding	of	statisti-
cal	significance	 of	a	particular	 treatment	 only	means	that	a	high	probability	 exists	that	
the	result	did	not	occur	by	chance.	One	must	also	evaluate	 the	magnitude	 of	an	effect	
for	its	impact	upon	actual	performance.	 For	example,	 a	reduction	 in	time	of	running	
100	m	by	0.5	of	a	second	may	not	reach	statistical	 significance,	 yet	it	could	mean	a	dif-
ference	between	the	first	and	last	place.
Dissemination
One	way	to	ensure	that	a	research	 study	is	of	high	quality	is	to	use	a	peer	review	system.	
Most	scientific	 journals	 require	that	reports	of	studies	be	reviewed	 by	two	or	three	
experts	in	the	field	who	did	not	take	part	in	the	research	 being	evaluated.	 Before	an	
article	can	be	published,	 these	scientists	 must	agree	that	the	experiments	 were	well	
designed	 and	conducted	 and	that	the	results	were	analyzed	 and	interpreted	 correctly.	
Peer	review	provides	 a	measure	 of	quality	control	over	scholarship	 and	interpretation	 of	
research	 findings.	 Publications	 in	popular	magazines	 or	online	journals	 do	not	undergo	
the	same	rigor	of	evaluation	 as	peer	review.	High-	quality	nutrition	 articles	may	be	found	
in	peer-	reviewed	 journals,	 such	as	the	American Journal of Clinical Nutrition ,	The Journal of 
Nutrition,	the	Journal of American Dietetic Association ,	the	New England Journal of Medicine ,	
and	the	 International Journal of Sports Nutrition and Metabolism.
Sports foods
Products	 manufactured	 by	companies	 such	as	MET-	Rx,	EAS,	Power	Bar,	and	Gatorade	
are	some	of	the	biggest	sellers	of	sports	foods	in	this	market.	Sports	foods	come	in	the	
form	of	bars,	shakers,	 drinks,	and	gels,	and	they	tend	to	be	more	complex	 and	food-	like,	
and	often	contain	one	or	more	kinds	of	nutrients.	 The	most	salient	feature	of	these	
products	 is	that	they	contain	energy	sources,	 such	as	carbohydrate.	 Some	of	these	prod-
ucts	are	consumed	 before,	during,	or	after	exercise,	 and	others	are	meant	to	serve	as	
partial	or	full	meal	replacements.
Sports bars
Sports	bars	represent	 one	of	the	fastest-	growing	 areas	of	the	sports	food	industry.	 These	
products	 provide	energy	as	well	as	other	essential	 nutrients.	 Their	composition	 may	vary	
tremendously	 based	on	the	intended	 consumer	 and	purpose	 of	the	sports	food.	For	
example,	 some	sports	bars	are	marketed	 as	a	quick	and	high	energy	source,	so	that	they	
may	be	used	before	or	after	intense	training	or	sports	competitions.	 Others	are	designed	
to	be	meal	replacements	 that	contain	 a	high	amount	 of	protein	and/or	fiber.	The	
energy	and	nutrient	 formulation	 for	some	of	the	more	popular	 sports	bars	is	presented	
in	Table	11.2.
	 Carbohydrate	 is	usually	the	energy	foundation	 of	many	sports	bars	that	are	to	be	con-
sumed	before	and	after	exercise.	 In	these	products,	 corn	syrup	or	high-	fructose	 corn	
syrup	(HFCS)	 is	the	common	 carbohydrate	 ingredient,	 and	both	are	based	on	partially	
digested	 cornstarch.	 Other	carbohydrate	 ingredients	 include	 fruit	juice	concentrates	
and	dried	fruit,	oat	bran,	brown	rice,	and	rice	crisps.	Many	sports	bars	also	contain	fiber.	
Having	fiber	allows	a	slower	and	more	even	absorption	 of	carbohydrate,	 thereby	produc-
ing	a	lower	insulin	response.	 However,	 sports	bars	rich	in	fiber	should	not	be	used	just	
before	or	during	exercise	because	they	can	cause	intestinal	discomfort.

252		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
	 The	protein	component	 of	sports	bars	is	largely	based	on	proteins	 isolated	from	milk	
and/or	egg	whites	because	 of	their	higher	biological	 values	(see	Chapter 	2). 	Amino	
acids,	such	as	branched-	 chain	amino	acids,	are	often	added	to	create	a	more	desirable	
composition.	 Manufacturers	 of	sports	bars	often	trademark	 their	protein/amino	 acid	
source	as	a	proprietary	 blend.	Fat	contributes	 energy,	flavor,	and	sensory	aspects	of	
sports	bars.	However,	it	is	not	the	focus	among	the	energy–nutrient	ingredients.
	 The	energy–nutrient	 ratio	varies	among	sports	bars	depending	 on	their	purpose.	
Some	sports	bars	have	a	carbohydrate–protein	 ratio	of	approximately	 4:1	or	3:1,	which	is	
ideal	for	use	during	recovery.	 Some	sports	bars	derive	more	than	60	percent	of	energy	
from	carbohydrate,	 which	makes	them	a	perfect	choice	for	a	pre-	game	meal.	In	some	
other	sports	bars,	protein	accounts	 for	more	than	50	percent	 of	the	energy,	a	value	
higher	than	carbohydrate.	 These	bars	are	not	designed	 to	be	an	energy	source,	but	
rather	are	used	for	enhancing	protein	synthesis	and	possibly	muscle	size.
	 Vitamins	 and	minerals	 are	typically	 added	to	sports	bars,	especially	 those	directly	
involved	 in	energy	metabolism,	 such	as	B	vitamins,	 magnesium,	 zinc,	and	iron.	Adding	
nutrients	 such	as	vitamins	 C	and	E	as	well	as	copper,	iron,	lipoic	acid,	and	glutathione	
often	reflects	an	attempt	 to	optimize	 antioxidant	 status.	In	addition,	 some	sports	bars	
contain	other	ergogenic	substances	such	as	creatine,	carnitine,	and	HMB.
Sports drinks
Sports	drinks	are	popular	 among	a	broad	range	of	athletes.	 Research	 has	demonstrated	
that	carbohydrate-	 containing	 sports	drinks	can	enhance	 performance	 during	endurance	
and	intermittent	 high-	intensity	 exercise,	 and	may	also	benefit	competitive	 weight-	lifters.	
Sports	drinks	may	be	split	into	two	categories:	 (1)	fluid	and	electrolyte	 replacement	
drinks	in	which	the	carbohydrate	 content	is	relatively	 low;	and	(2)	drinks	that	contain	a	
higher	carbohydrate	 formulation.	 The	former	are	more	appropriate	 for	use	during	exer-
cise,	whereas	the	latter	are	better	suited	for	consumption	 after	training	or	in	preparation	
for	an	upcoming	 event.	This	second	category	 is	also	referred	 to	as	recovery	 or	loading	
beverages.	The	composition	of	the	two	sports	drink	categories	is	listed	in	 Table	11.3.
	 In	sports	drinks,	carbohydrate	 is	typically	 provided	 as	glucose,	 sucrose,	 fructose,	 corn	
syrup,	maltodextrins,	 and	glucose	polymers.	 These	carbohydrates	 usually	make	up	about	
4	to	8	percent	of	a	fluid/electrolyte	 replacement	 drink	and	>10	percent	of	a	recovery/
loading	 beverage.	 One	of	the	most	important	 considerations	 with	regard	to	carbo-
hydrate	percentage	 is	how	it	influences	 the	rate	of	gastric	emptying.	 As	carbohydrates	
exceed	8	percent	of	the	solution,	 gastric	emptying	 begins	to	slow	down.	Therefore,	 the	
fluid/electrolyte	 replacement	 drinks	are	often	used	during	endurance	 events	such	as	Table 11.2 	Nutrient	composition	of	selected	top-selling	sports	bars
Sports bar Energy (kcal) Carbohydrate (g) Fiber (g) Protein (g) Fat (g)
Balance 200 22 <1 14 6
Promax 270 39 1 20 4.5
Ironman 230 20 0 16 7
PowerBar	Protein	Plus 300 38 1 23 6
Myoplex	Deluxe 340 37 1 30 9
Power	Bar	Performance 230 45 3 10 2
Clif	Bar 250 45 5 10 5
Zone perfect 210 21 1 15 7
Snickers/Marathon 220 32 2 10 7

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		253
distance	 running	 and	cycling	as	well	as	intermittent	 sports	such	as	soccer,	field	hockey,	
lacrosse,	 tennis,	and	hockey.	This	is	because	during	exercise	 gastrointestinal	 motility	and	
absorption	 decreases.	 As	shown	in	Table 	11.3, 	the	amount	of	carbohydrates	 in	the	fluid/
electrolyte	 replacement	 drinks	is	only	a	quarter	of	that	in	the	recovery/loading-	 type	
drinks.
	 The	purpose	 of	fluid/electrolyte	 replacement	 drinks	is	not	only	to	replace	carbohy-
drate	and	water,	but	also	to	provide	sodium	and	chloride,	 which	are	the	main	electro-
lytes	found	in	sweat	and	are	frequently	 subjected	 to	heavy	loss	during	prolonged	
exercise.	 This	type	of	sports	drink	also	contains	 potassium,	 though	in	a	smaller	amount.	
Potassium,	 alone	with	sodium	and	chloride,	 plays	an	important	 role	in	neuromuscular	
function.	 Other	ingredients	 that	may	be	found	in	both	types	of	sports	drink	include	
phosphorus,	chromium,	calcium,	magnesium,	iron,	caffeine,	and	certain	vitamins.
	 Whether	 or	not	carbohydrate	 consumption	 in	amounts	 typically	 provided	 in	sports	
drinks	(4	to	8	percent)	 improves	 performance	 in	events	lasting	one	hour	or	less	has	
been	controversial.	 Current	 research	 supports	 the	benefit	of	this	practice	 especially	 in	
athletes	who	exercise	 in	the	morning	 after	an	overnight	 fast	when	liver	glycogen	 is	low.	
Thus,	providing	 exogenous	 carbohydrates	 under	these	conditions	 would	help	maintain	
blood	glucose	levels	and	improve	 performance.	 Accordingly,	 performance	 advantages	 in	
short-	duration	 activities	 may	not	be	apparent	 when	exercise	 is	conducted	 in	the	non-	
fasting	state.	For	longer	events,	consuming	 0.7	g	of	carbohydrate	 per	kg	body	weight	per	
hour	(approximately	 30	to	60	g)	has	been	shown	to	extend	endurance	 performance	
(Coggan	 and	Coyle	1991,	Currell	and	Jeukendrup	 2008).	Ingesting	 carbohydrates	
during	exercise	 is	even	more	important	 in	situations	 where	athletes	 have	not	
carbohydrate-	 loaded,	 consumed	 pre-	exercise	 meals,	or	restricted	 energy	intake	for	
weight	loss.	To	be	more	effective,	 ingestion	 of	carbohydrates	 should	be	done	at	15-	to	
20-minute	 intervals	 throughout	 exercise	 (McConell	 et al.	1996).	If	the	same	total	amount	
of	carbohydrate	 and	fluid	is	ingested,	 the	form	of	carbohydrate	 does	not	seem	to	matter	
–	some	athletes	may	prefer	to	use	a	sports	drink,	whereas	others	may	prefer	to	eat	a	solid	
or	gel	and	consume	water.
	 Several	 factors	may	influence	 the	rate	of	absorption	 of	sports	drink	ingredients	 and	
they	include	the	temperature	 and	concentration	 or	osmolarity	 of	a	sports	drink.	With	
regard	to	temperature,	 cooler	solutions	 (i.e.,	5	to	15°C)	may	empty	from	the	stomach	
more	quickly	than	warmer	or	hot	solutions.	 In	addition,	 cooler	drinks	are	more	enjoy-
able	and	therefore	 may	promote	 greater	consumption.	 This	is	why	sports	drinks	are	
often	kept	in	coolers	and	poured	into	cups	for	athletes	to	consume	 during	many	sport-
ing	events.	However,	 one	should	keep	in	mind	that	melting	ice	in	a	cooler	dilutes	the	
drink.	Osmolarity	 is	a	measure	 of	solute	concentration	 of	a	solution	 and	tends	to	draw	Table 11.3 	Comparison	of	energy	and	carbohydrate	content	of	Gatorade	and	energy	drink
Nutrition facts  
(240 ml or 8 oz)Fluid and electrolyte 
replacement drinkHigh-carbohydrate  energy drink
Total	energy 50	kcal 210	kcal
Total	carbohydrate 14	g 52	g
Sugar 14	g 28	g
Other	carbohydrate 0	g 24 g
Protein 0	g 0	g
Fat 0	g 0	g
Sodium 110	mg 135	mg
Potassium 30	mg 70	mg

254		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
water,	and	the	greater	the	osmolarity	 of	a	solution	 the	greater	the	ability	of	this	solution	
to	attract	water.	As	the	particle	concentration	 within	the	stomach	 and	small	intestine	
exceeds	that	in	the	blood	or	extracellular	 fluid,	water	is	drawn	in	by	osmotic	force.	This	
may	in	turn	reduce	the	intestinal	 absorption	 of	fluid	as	well	as	carbohydrates.	 Sports	
drinks	designed	 for	use	during	exercise	 often	contain	lower	concentrations	 of	carbo-
hydrate	(i.e.,	4	to	8	percent)	aimed	to	facilitate	intestinal	fluid	absorption.
Sports supplements
The	term	sports	supplements	 is	used	in	this	text	to	be	inclusive	 of	both	nutritional	 and	
pharmacological	 ergogenic	 aids.	Indeed,	of	possibly	more	than	500	supplements	 on	the	
market,	some	of	them	are	common	 nutrients	 or	their	derivatives,	 whereas	 others	may	be	
considered	 chemical	 agents	purported	 to	enhance	 sport	performance.	 Despite	such	a	
large	quantity	 of	ergogenic	 aids,	the	fundamental	 working	 mechanism	 of	each	may	be	
explained	 by	one	or	more	of	the	following:	 (1)	to	act	as	a	central	or	peripheral	 nervous	
system	stimulant;	 (2)	to	increase	 storage	or	availability	 of	a	limiting	substrate;	 (3)	to	act	
as	a	supplemental	 fuel	source;	(4)	to	reduce	performance-	 inhibiting	 metabolic	 by-	
products;	 (5)	to	facilitate	 recovery;	 and	(6)	to	enhance	 tissue	synthesis.	 The	following	
includes	 a	more	in-	depth	discussion	 on	some	of	the	commonly	 used	ergogenic	 aids.	
Readers	 may	wish	to	consult	Table	11.4	for 	a	quick	reference	 in	terms	of	their	descrip-
tion,	action,	and	major	claims.	Note	that	ergogenic	 effects	of	carbohydrate,	 such	as	
glucose	feeding	and	carbohydrate	loading,	are	covered	in	 Chapter	10.
Arginine, ornithine, and lysine
Lysine	is	an	essential	 amino	acid	and	arginine	 is	considered	 conditional	 or	semi-	
essential	 because	 it	may	become	essential	 during	periods	of	growth.	Ornithine	 is	a	non-
essential	 amino	acid	not	found	in	proteins	 but	important	 for	efficient	 nitrogen	 removal	
in	the	urea	cycle.	This	amino	acid	is	supposed	 to	also	enhance	 the	efficiency	 of	intesti-
nal	absorption.	 These	amino	acids	may	be	purchased	 as	individual	 supplements	 or	in	a	
combination 	sometimes 	marketed 	as	“natural	growth	hormone.” 	This	is	because	
supplementation	 with	these	three	amino	acids	has	been	proposed	 to	augment	 growth	
hormone	 levels	in	the	circulation,	 leading	to	greater	muscle	development	 (Chromiak 	
and	Antonio	2002).
	 Such	 a	claim	is	based	on	early	studies	involving	 individuals	 who	had	suffered	 signi-
ficant	burns.	For	example,	 it	was	found	that	when	large	doses	of	ornithine	 were	given	to	
burn	patients	 intravenously,	 their	blood	growth	hormone	 levels	were	increased	 (Donati	
et al.	1999).	It	was	also	found	that	these	patients	 established	 a	positive	nitrogen	 balance	
more	quickly	in	days	following	 the	treatment	 (Donati	 et al.	1999,	De	Bandt	 et al.	1998).	
An	increased	 release	of	growth	hormone	 was	also	demonstrated	 in	healthy	but	untrained	
subjects	who	underwent	 oral	supplementation	 of	combined	 arginine	 and	lysine	(Isidori	
et al.	1981,	Suminski	 et al.	1997).	However,	 studies	that	involved	 weight-	lifters	and	body	
builders	 failed	to	show	an	increase	 in	blood	growth	hormone	 concentrations	 when	these	
amino	acids	were	given	orally	(Fogelholm	 et al.	1993,	Lambert	 et al.	1993).	These	athletes	
experience	 the	natural	increase	 in	growth	hormone	 regularly,	 due	to	their	training	
bouts.	This	may	have	limited	the	ability	of	these	athletes	to	benefit	further	from	amino	
acid	supplementation.	 An	important	 consideration	 regarding	 the	efficacy	of	amino	acid	
supplementation	 is	that	even	in	the	studies	that	observed	 an	increase	 in	growth	
hormone,	 the	research	 protocols	 did	not	extend	to	assess	changes	 in	lean	body	mass,	
strength,	 and	anaerobic	 performance.	 Studies	involving	 burn	patients	 provided	 the	
three	amino	acids	intravenously	 and	at	high	dosages.	 Therefore,	 these	amino	acids,	once	

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		255
they	have	entered	the	circulation,	can	exert	their	effect	directly.	On	the	other	hand,	oral	
ingestion	 of	these	amino	acids	requires	 that	they	must	enter	the	liver	first	before	being	
further	used.	It	is	likely	that	the	liver	can	metabolize	 most	of	these	amino	acids,	leaving	
the	remainder	to	be	of	insufficiency	in	producing	their	action.
Bicarbonate loading
Dramatic	 alterations	 in	acid–base	 balance	 of	the	intracellular	 and	extracellular	 fluids	
occur	when	maximal	 exercise	 is	performed	 for	between	 30	seconds	and	several	minutes,	
such	as	400-meter,	 800-meter,	 and	1500-meter	 running,	 track	cycling	events,	and	speed	
skating.	This	is	because	 muscle	fibers	rely	predominantly	 on	anaerobic	 energy	transfer.	
As	a	result,	significant	 quantities	 of	lactate	accumulate,	 with	a	concurrent	 fall	in	intra-
cellular	pH.	An	increased	 accumulation	 of	H+	in	muscle	cells	can	reduce	the	calcium	
sensitivity	 of	the	contractile	 proteins,	 thereby	 impairing	 muscle	function	 (Chin	and	
Allen	1998,	Street	 et al.	2005).
	 The	body	uses	several	systems	to	adjust	and	regulate	 acid–base	 balance.	 Chemical	
buffers	provide	 a	very	effective	 and	rapid	way	of	normalizing	 the	H+	concentration.	
Other	systems	include	exhalation	 of	CO2	via	pulmonary	 ventilation	 and	excretion	 of	H+ 
via	the	kidneys.	 The	primary	 chemical	 buffers	in	the	muscle	are	phosphates	 and	tissue	
proteins.	 The	most	important	 buffers	in	the	blood	are	proteins,	 hemoglobin,	 and	bicar-
bonate.	During	intense	exercise,	 as	intracellular	 buffers	are	insufficient	 to	buffer	all	the	
hydrogen	 ions	formed,	 efflux	of	H+	into	the	circulation	 increases.	 In	this	context,	 main-
taining	high	levels	of	extracellular	 bicarbonate 	can	facilitate	 the	release	of	H+	from	the	
cells	and	thus	delay	the	onset	of	intracellular	 acidosis.	 The	mechanism	 by	which	bicar-
bonate	supposedly	 exerts	its	action	is	through	 the	buffering	 of	H+	in	the	blood,	not	in	
the	muscle	as	is	often	claimed.	 The	buffering	 of	H+	in	the	blood,	however,	 increases	 the	
efflux	of	H+	from	the	muscle.	The	following	 illustrates	 the	process	of	how	bicarbonate	
(e.g.,	HCO1
3–)	acts	against	excessive	acid	production:
HCO1
3–	+	H+ ←→	H2CO3 ←→	H2O	+	CO2
Research	 in	this	area	has	produced	 conflicting	 results,	but	they	appear	to	be	caused	by	
diverse	doses	of	bicarbonate	 or	different	 types	of	exercise	 used	to	evaluate	 the	ergogenic	
effects	of	bicarbonate	 loading.	 It	appears	that	a	minimal	 dose	of	bicarbonate	 ingestion	 is	
needed	to	improve	 performance	 (Horswill	 1995).	A	dose	of	200	mg/kg	body	weight	or	
higher	ingested	 one	to	two	hours	before	exercise	 seems	to	improve	 performance	 in	most	
studies	which	used	exercises	 that	lasted	for	longer	than	a	minute,	 whereas	 doses	less	
than	100	mg/kg	body	weight	do	not	affect	performance.	 A	300	mg/kg	body	weight	seems	
to	be	the	optimum	 dose	from	performance	 perspective,	 but	doses	higher	than	300	mg/
kg	body	weight	may	be	accompanied	 by	gastrointestinal	 problems,	 including	 bloating,	
abdominal	discomfort,	and	diarrhea.
	 No	ergogenic	 effect	emerges	 for	typical	resistance	 exercises	 or	exercises	 that	last	for	
less	than	a	minute	(e.g.,	squat,	bench	press,	jump).	This	may	be	attributed	 to	the	fact	
that	these	ultra-	short-term	 activities	 generally	 have	lower	absolute	 anaerobic	 metabolic	
load	compared	 with	continuous,	 maximal	 whole-	body	activities.	 Bicarbonate	 loading	
with	all-	out	effort	of	less	than	a	minute	improves	 performance	 only	with	repetitive	 exer-
cise	bouts,	which	in	accumulation	 can	produce	 high	intracellular	 H+ concentrations 
(Bishop	 et al.	2004).	Bicarbonate	 loading	does	not	benefit	low-	intensity,	 aerobic	exercise	
because	pH	and	lactate	remain	near	resting	levels.	However,	 some	research	 indicates	 the	
benefits	 in	aerobic	exercise	 of	high	intensity	 (McNaughton	 et al.	1999,	Potteiger	 et al.	
1996).	For	example,	 using	a	30-km	time	trial,	Potteiger	 et al.	(1996)	found	that	the	race	

Table 11.4	Description	of	selected	sports	supplements	and	their	ergogenic	claims
Ergogenic aids Description Actions/claims
Arginine,	 ornithine,	
and lysineLysine:	an	essential	AA;	arginine:	semi-essential	AA;	
ornithine:	non-essential	AA	not	found	in	proteins	but	
important for nitrogen removalIncreases	growth	hormone	release,	thus	muscle	development
Biocarbonate A	chemical	buffer	found	primarily	in	extracellular	fluid Maintains	acid-base	balance	by	buffering	hydrogen	ions	produced	
from	working	muscle,	thereby	improving	anaerobic	performance	
and	performance	of	intense	endurance	events	
Boron A	trace	mineral	involved	in	bone	mineral	metabolism,	
steroid	hormone	metabolism,	and	membrane	functionsIncreases	testosterone	production	that	helps	with	tissue	building	
and	anabolic	actions
BCAA Leucine,	isoleucine,	and	valine	and	essential	amino	acids Serve	as	additional	energy	fuel;	enhance	protein	synthesis;	prevent	
or	attenuate	the	excessive	loss	of	protein;	reduce	mental	fatigue
Caffeine Naturally	occurring	substance	found	in	coffee,	tea,	and	
chocolateImproves	cognitive	function,	increases	fat	use,	and	spares	muscle	
glycogen,	which	benefit	both	anaerobic	and	aerobic	performance
Chromium A	trace	mineral	found	in	foods	such	as	brewer’s	yeast,	
cheese,	broccoli,	wheatgerm,	nuts,	liver,	and	egg	yolkPotentiates	insulin	action	and	thus	helps	with	anabolic	tissue	
building
Carnitine A	substance	found	in	relatively	high	quantities	in	meat Functions	as	carrier	protein	that	transports	long-chain	fatty	acids	
into	mitochondria,	thereby	improving	endurance	performance
Co-enzyme	Q	10Also	referred	to	as	ubiquinone	and	a	integral	component	
of	the	mitochondrion’s	electron	transport	systemPlays	an	important	role	in	oxidative	phosphorylation,	thereby	
improving	aerobic	capacity	and	endurance	performance	
Creatine A	nitrogen-containing	molecule	produced	from	the	liver,	
kidneys,	and	pancreasAugments	PCr	levels	and	buffers	hydrogen	ions,	thereby	improving	
performance	of	ultra-short/short	terms	events	
DHEA	and	
AndrostenedionePrecursors	to	testosterone	and	produced	mainly	in	the	
adrenal glands Improves	lean	body	mass,	thereby	improving	strength.	DHEA	may	
also	enhance	immune	function	and	protects	against	cardiovascular	
diseases 
Ephedrine Also	referred	to	as	Ma-Huang	and	naturally	occurring	in	
some	botanicalsFunctions	as	a	stimulant	like	catecholamine	to	improve	body	
composition	and	both	aerobic	and	anaerobic	performance
Glutamine A	naturally	occurring	nonessential	amino	acid	and	most	
abundant	amino	acid	in	human	muscle	and	plasmaEnhances	protein	synthesis	and	protects	against	infections	or	illness	
associated	with	exhaustive	exercise
Glycerol A	component	of	the	triglyceride	molecule	and	an	
important	constituent	of	the	cells’	phospholipid	plasma	
membraneInduces	hyperhydration,	decreases	heat	stress	and	improves	
performance
Hydroxycitric	acid	
(HCA)A	derivative	of	citric	acid	found	in	a	variety	of	tropical	
plants,	including	garcinia	cambogiaFunctions	as	a	weight	loss	supplement	by	inhibiting	fatty	acid	
biosynthesis	and/or	suppressing	appetite
HMB A	metabolite	of	the	essential	amino	acid	leucine	and	also	
found	in	red	meats,	catfish,	asparagus,	cauliflower,	and	
grapefruit	Reduces	muscle	damage	and	suppresses	protein	degradation	
associated	with	intense	physical	effort
Inosine A	nucleoside	comparable	to	adenine,	which	is	one	of	the	
structural	components	of	ATPIncreases	ATP	stores,	favoring	strength	and	power	athletes	and	
involved	in	the	production	of	2,3-DPG	that	facilitates	the	delivery	of	
oxygen	into	tissues
Nitric	oxide	(NO) A	messenger	molecule	derived	from	L-arginine,	nitrate	
(NO3–)	or	nitrite	(NO2–)Causes	vasodilation,	thereby	increasing	tissue	blood	flow	and	
oxygen delivery
Phosphate A	major	mineral	found	mainly	in	bones,	and	also	a	
component	of	ATP	and	2,3-DPG	Increases	ATP	synthesis	and	oxygen	extraction	in	muscle	cells,	
thereby	improving	performance	of	both	anaerobic	and	aerobic	
events 
Synephrine Also	known	as	p-synephrine,	an	extract	from	the	bitter	or	
sour	orangeFunctions	as	a	stimulant	that	increases	thermogenesis
Whey	and	casein Milk	proteins	derived	from	the	cheese-making	process	
with	whey	being	digested	more	quickly	and	casein	
sustaining	longer	for	its	effect	Enhances	muscle	recovery	and	adaptations	by	providing	more	
amino	acids	needed	for	protein	synthesis	

Table 11.4 	Description	of	selected	sports	supplements	and	their	ergogenic	claims
Ergogenic aids Description Actions/claims
Arginine,	 ornithine,	
and lysineLysine:	an	essential	AA;	arginine:	semi-essential	AA;	
ornithine:	non-essential	AA	not	found	in	proteins	but	
important for nitrogen removalIncreases	growth	hormone	release,	thus	muscle	development
Biocarbonate A	chemical	buffer	found	primarily	in	extracellular	fluid Maintains	acid-base	balance	by	buffering	hydrogen	ions	produced	
from	working	muscle,	thereby	improving	anaerobic	performance	
and	performance	of	intense	endurance	events	
Boron A	trace	mineral	involved	in	bone	mineral	metabolism,	
steroid	hormone	metabolism,	and	membrane	functionsIncreases	testosterone	production	that	helps	with	tissue	building	
and	anabolic	actions
BCAA Leucine,	isoleucine,	and	valine	and	essential	amino	acids Serve	as	additional	energy	fuel;	enhance	protein	synthesis;	prevent	
or	attenuate	the	excessive	loss	of	protein;	reduce	mental	fatigue
Caffeine Naturally	occurring	substance	found	in	coffee,	tea,	and	
chocolateImproves	cognitive	function,	increases	fat	use,	and	spares	muscle	
glycogen,	which	benefit	both	anaerobic	and	aerobic	performance
Chromium A	trace	mineral	found	in	foods	such	as	brewer’s	yeast,	
cheese,	broccoli,	wheatgerm,	nuts,	liver,	and	egg	yolkPotentiates	insulin	action	and	thus	helps	with	anabolic	tissue	
building
Carnitine A	substance	found	in	relatively	high	quantities	in	meat Functions	as	carrier	protein	that	transports	long-chain	fatty	acids	
into	mitochondria,	thereby	improving	endurance	performance
Co-enzyme	Q	10Also	referred	to	as	ubiquinone	and	a	integral	component	
of	the	mitochondrion’s	electron	transport	systemPlays	an	important	role	in	oxidative	phosphorylation,	thereby	
improving	aerobic	capacity	and	endurance	performance	
Creatine A	nitrogen-containing	molecule	produced	from	the	liver,	
kidneys,	and	pancreasAugments	PCr	levels	and	buffers	hydrogen	ions,	thereby	improving	
performance	of	ultra-short/short	terms	events	
DHEA	and	
AndrostenedionePrecursors	to	testosterone	and	produced	mainly	in	the	
adrenal glands Improves	lean	body	mass,	thereby	improving	strength.	DHEA	may	
also	enhance	immune	function	and	protects	against	cardiovascular	
diseases 
Ephedrine Also	referred	to	as	Ma-Huang	and	naturally	occurring	in	
some	botanicalsFunctions	as	a	stimulant	like	catecholamine	to	improve	body	
composition	and	both	aerobic	and	anaerobic	performance
Glutamine A	naturally	occurring	nonessential	amino	acid	and	most	
abundant	amino	acid	in	human	muscle	and	plasmaEnhances	protein	synthesis	and	protects	against	infections	or	illness	
associated	with	exhaustive	exercise
Glycerol A	component	of	the	triglyceride	molecule	and	an	
important	constituent	of	the	cells’	phospholipid	plasma	
membraneInduces	hyperhydration,	decreases	heat	stress	and	improves	
performance
Hydroxycitric	acid	
(HCA)A	derivative	of	citric	acid	found	in	a	variety	of	tropical	
plants,	including	garcinia	cambogiaFunctions	as	a	weight	loss	supplement	by	inhibiting	fatty	acid	
biosynthesis	and/or	suppressing	appetite
HMB A	metabolite	of	the	essential	amino	acid	leucine	and	also	
found	in	red	meats,	catfish,	asparagus,	cauliflower,	and	
grapefruit	Reduces	muscle	damage	and	suppresses	protein	degradation	
associated	with	intense	physical	effort
Inosine A	nucleoside	comparable	to	adenine,	which	is	one	of	the	
structural	components	of	ATPIncreases	ATP	stores,	favoring	strength	and	power	athletes	and	
involved	in	the	production	of	2,3-DPG	that	facilitates	the	delivery	of	
oxygen	into	tissues
Nitric	oxide	(NO) A	messenger	molecule	derived	from	L-arginine,	nitrate	
(NO3–)	or	nitrite	(NO2–)Causes	vasodilation,	thereby	increasing	tissue	blood	flow	and	
oxygen delivery
Phosphate A	major	mineral	found	mainly	in	bones,	and	also	a	
component	of	ATP	and	2,3-DPG	Increases	ATP	synthesis	and	oxygen	extraction	in	muscle	cells,	
thereby	improving	performance	of	both	anaerobic	and	aerobic	
events 
Synephrine Also	known	as	p-synephrine,	an	extract	from	the	bitter	or	
sour	orangeFunctions	as	a	stimulant	that	increases	thermogenesis
Whey	and	casein Milk	proteins	derived	from	the	cheese-making	process	
with	whey	being	digested	more	quickly	and	casein	
sustaining	longer	for	its	effect	Enhances	muscle	recovery	and	adaptations	by	providing	more	
amino	acids	needed	for	protein	synthesis	

258		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
times	of	trained	male	cyclists	were	better	after	consuming	 a	buffering	 solution	(500	mg/kg	
body	weight)	before	exercise	 than	in	placebo	 trials,	and	this	increase	 in	performance	
was	accompanied	by	an	elevated	level	of	blood	pH	throughout	the	exercise.
Boron
Boron	is	an	essential	 trace	mineral	 involved	 in	bone	mineral	 metabolism,	 steroid	
hormone	 metabolism,	 and	membrane	 functions.	 It	is	found	in	non-	citrus	fruits,	leafy	
vegetables,	 nuts,	and	legumes.	 Boron	has	been	studied	in	relation	to	osteoporosis.	 One	
of	these	studies	found	that	48	days	of	boron	supplementation	 increased	 estrogen	 and	
testosterone	 levels	of	post-	menopausal	 women	(Nielsen	 et al.	1987).	It	also	decreased	 the	
excretion	 of	calcium,	 phosphorous,	 and	magnesium	 in	urine.	Therefore,	 it	appears	that	
boron	supplementation	 helps	improve	 bone	mineral	 density.	The	finding	that	boron	
supplementation	 increased	 testosterone	 levels	has	been	singled	out	disproportionately	
and	extrapolated	 to	the	claim	that	it	may	improve	 muscle	growth	and	strength.	 However,	
what	is	often	overlooked	 is	that	the	participants	 of	the	study	were	postmenopausal	
women	who	were	on	a	boron-	deficient	 diet	for	four	months.	 In	addition,	 one	must	be	
aware	that	boron	supplementation	 raised	serum	estrogen	 levels	as	well.	In	studies	involv-
ing	athletic	populations,	 boron	supplementation	 has	not	been	proven	to	increase	 testo-
sterone	levels.	For	example,	 male	body	builders	 who	took	2.5	mg	of	boron	daily	for	seven	
weeks	saw	no	changes	 in	measures	 of	testosterone,	 lean	body	mass,	and	strength	 as	com-
pared	to	the	placebo	 condition	 (Ferrando	 and	Green	1993).	On	the	basis	of	these	
studies,	boron	supplementation	does	not	appear	to	confer	any	ergogenic	benefit.
Branched- chain amino acids (BCAA)
Branched- chain amino acids 	(BCAA),	 leucine,	 isoleucine,	 and	valine,	are	not	synthe-
sized	by	the	body	and	therefore	 must	be	introduced	 with	the	diet.	In	the	late	1970s,	
BCAA	were	suggested	 to	be	the	third	fuel	for	skeletal	muscle	after	carbohydrate	 and	
fat	(Goldberg 	and	Chang	1978).	The	entire	metabolic 	pathway	for	BCAA	involves	
sequential	 steps	of	transamination	 of	BCAA	to	produce	 branched-	 chain	alpha-	keto	
acids	followed	 by	decarboxylation	 of	alpha-	keto	acids	to	form	acetyl-	CoA	to	be	used	in	
the	Krebs	cycle	or	gluconeogenesis.	 Exercise	 has	been	shown	to	promote	 oxidation	 of	
BCAA	by	activating	 catabolic	 enzymes.	 For	this	reason,	BCAA	were	considered	 ergo-
genic	in	that	they	can	provide	athletes	with	extra	fuel.	However, 	studies	designed 	to	
show	positive	 effects	of	BCAA	on	athletic	 performance	 have	failed	to	confirm	 this	
hypothesis.	 It	has	been	found	that	the	activities	 of	the	enzymes	 involved	 in	oxidation 	
of	BCAA	were	too	low	to	allow	a	major	contribution	 of	BCAA	to	energy	expenditure 	
(Wagenmakers	 et al.	1991).
	 Claims	 have	also	been	made	that	BCAA	supplementation	 can	prevent	or	attenuate	
protein	breakdown	 in	muscle.	After	intense	exercise,	 protein	breakdown	 remains	 ele-
vated	for	several	hours	and	protein	synthesis	 increases	 for	as	long	as	two	days.	Muscle	
recovery	 needs	a	positive	muscle	protein	balance	that	occurs	when	muscle	protein	syn-
thesis	exceeds	 muscle	protein	breakdown.	 In	order	to	reduce	exercise-	 induced	 muscle	
protein	breakdown	 and	improve	 muscle	recovery,	 BCAA	supplementation	 was	examined	
in	humans.	 It	was	reported	 that	an	oral	supplement	 of	BCAA	at	77	mg/kg	body	mass	
administered	 20	minutes	 before	exercise	 increased	 intracellular	 and	arterial	BCAA	levels	
coupled	 with	significantly	 lower	release	of	BCAA	during	60-minute	 exercise	 at	~70	
VO2max	as	compared	 to	a	control	trial	(MacLean	 et al.	1994).	Similar	effects	were	also	
observed	 in	a	study	in	which	subjects	consumed	 BCAA	at	100	mg/kg	body	mass	before,	
during,	and	after	a	prolonged	 exercise	 of	similar	intensity	 (Blomstrand	 and	Saltin	2001).	

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		259
BCAA	supplementation	 may	spare	muscle	protein	during	prolonged	 and	intense	exer-
cise.	However,	 caution	 should	be	exercised,	 as	studies	from	other	laboratories	 have	
failed	to	confirm	 such	positive	effects	of	BCAA	on	protein	balance	 (Nair	 et al.	1992,	
Frexes-	Steed	 et al.	1992).
	 Eric	Newsholme,	 a	biochemist	 at	Oxford	University,	 postulated	 that	high	levels	of	
serum-	free	tryptophan	 (fTRP)	in	conjunction	 with	low	levels	of	BCAA,	or	a	high	
fTPR:BCAA	 ratio,	may	be	a	major	factor	that	causes	fatigue	during	prolonged	 endur-
ance	exercise.	 This	contention	 was	developed	 based	on	the	fact	that	fTRP	is	used	in	the	
production	 of	serotonin,	 which	is	believed	 to	play	a	key	role	in	the	onset	of	fatigue.	
BCAA	on	the	other	hand	can	compete	 against	fTRP	for	the	carrier-	mediated	 entry	in	the	
central	nervous	system,	thus	mitigating	 the	production	 of	serotonin.	 When	BCAA	levels	
decrease,	 a	higher	percentage	 of	tryptophan	 can	enter	the	brain	cells.	Tryptophan	 is	
then	converted	 into	serotonin	 to	produce	 a	relaxation	 effect	that	ultimately	 causes	a	
fatigued	 sensation	 and	resulting	 decrease	 in	exercise	 performance	 (Davis	 et al.	2000).	It	
has	been	suggested	 that	the	ingestion	 of	BCAA	may	raise	the	plasma	BCAA	concentra -
tion	and	thus	reduce	transport	 of	fTRP	into	the	brain	and	thus	improve	 performance.	 If	
this	central	fatigue	hypothesis	 is	true,	then	the	opposite	 must	also	be	correct;	 that	is,	
consumption	 of	tryptophan	 before	exercise	 should	reduce	the	time	to	exhaustion,	
thereby	hampering	 performance.	 Nevertheless,	 a	study	by	Stensrud	 et al.	(1992)	demon-
strated	no	differences	 in	exhaustive	 running	 performance	 between	 those	who	were	on	
tryptophan	 and	those	who	were	on	a	placebo.	 It	appears	 that	further	research	 is	still	
needed	in	order	to	substantiate	this	claim	associated	with	BCAA.
	 More	 recently,	 investigators	 have	focused	 on	the	effects	of	BCAA	on	the	exercise-	
induced	 muscle	damage	 and	its	recovery.	 As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	7, 	intense	exercise	
that	involves	 eccentric	 muscle	contraction	 will	lead	to	delayed	 onset	muscle	soreness	
(DOMS),	 a	syndrome	 that	occurs	24	to	48	hours	after	intensive	 physical	 activity.	In	indi-
viduals	with	DOMS,	full	muscle	strength	 may	not	return	for	days	or	even	weeks.	There-
fore,	a	variety	of	countermeasures	 such	as	stretching,	 ice,	compression,	 massage,	
anti-	inflammatory	 drugs,	and	a	host	of	dietary	supplements	 have	been	tried,	with	limited	
success.	One	promising	 strategy	is	the	use	of	BCAA.	Recent	research	 has	revealed	 that	
compared	 to	the	placebo	group,	athletes	who	consumed	 20	grams	of	BCAA	daily	in	two	
10-gram	 doses	in	the	morning	 and	evening	experienced	 a	significantly	 lower	increase	 in	
blood	levels	of	creatine	 kinase,	a	marker	of	muscle	damage	upon	competing	 100	consec-
utive	drop-	jumps	(Howatson	 et al.	2012).	The	BCAA	group	also	demonstrated	 lower	
levels	of	muscle	soreness	 and	faster	recovery	 of	muscle	force	post	exercise.	 These	find-
ings	suggest	that	BCAA	supplementation	 can	mitigate	 exercise-	 induced	 muscle	damage	
and	allow	for	a	more	rapid	return	of	muscle	performance.
Caffeine
Caffeine 	occurs	naturally	 in	a	variety	of	beverages	 and	foods,	including	 coffee,	tea,	and	
chocolate	 (Table	11.5).	It 	is	consumed	 by	most	adults	throughout	 the	world.	It	is	estim-
ated	that	the	daily	intake	of	caffeine	 for	an	average	adult	is	approximately	 3	mg	kg–1,	80	
percent	 of	which	is	consumed	 in	the	form	of	coffee	(Barone	 and	Roberts	 1996).	Caf-
feine	is	recognized	 as	a	food	and	a	drug	in	both	the	scientific	 and	regulatory	 domains. 	
It	is,	however,	 not	a	typical	nutrient	 and	is	not	essential	 for	health.	There	are	several	
over-	the-counter 	medications 	containing 	from	30	to	100	mg	of	caffeine. 	These	include	
cold	medicines,	 diuretics,	 weight	loss	products,	 and	preparations	 that	help	people	stay	
awake.	Caffeine	 can	be	rapidly	absorbed	 in	the	digestive	 tract	and	distributed	 to	all	
tissues.	It	can	also	easily	cross	the	blood–brain	 barrier	to	reach	the	tissues	of	the	central	
nervous	system.

260		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
	 Unlike	 ephedrine,	 the	existing	 literature	 appears	 to	be	more	definitive	 in	support	
of	ergogenic	 effects	of	caffeine	 on	cognitive	 and	physical	 performance.	 On	the	other	
hand,	caffeine	alone	is	not	as	effective	in	prompting 	weight	loss.	Caffeine’s 	cognitive	
and	behavioral	 effects	have	been	documented	 in	a	number	 of	well-	controlled	 studies	
using	young	and	elderly	male	and	female	volunteers.	 Effects	on	particular	 aspects	of	
cognitive 	function 	as	well	as	effects	on	mood	state	are	generally 	consistent 	with	the	
common	 perception	 of	caffeine	 as	a	compound	 that	increases	 mental	energy	and	per-
formance.	 For	example,	 using	a	double-	blind	and	placebo-	 control	protocol,	 Fine	 et al.	
(1994)	reported	 that	a	single	dose	of	200	mg	of	caffeine	 improves	 visual	vigilance	 in	
rested	volunteers.	 Similar	effects	have	been	documented	 with	doses	equivalent	 to	a	
single	serving	of	a	cola	beverage	 (~	40	mg)	up	to	multiple	 cups	of	coffee	(Lieberman 	
et al.	1987).	However,	 with	a	very	high	dose	of	caffeine	 (i.e.,	~500	mg),	cognitive	 per-
formance	 was	reported	 to	decrease	 (Kaplan	 et al.	1997).	This	finding	indicates	 that	a	
dosage	which	is	achievable	 via	diet	would	be	sufficient	 in	order	to	procure	 the	cogni-
tive	benefits	 of	caffeine.	 Caffeine	 has	also	been	shown	to	enhance	 cognitive	 perform-
ance	such	as	reasoning 	and	memory	when	an	individual’s 	mental	ability	decreases 	due	
to	sleep	deprivation	(Penetar	 et al.	1993).
	 With	respect	to	sports	performance, 	the	most	consistent 	observation 	is	that	caffeine	
can	increase	 the	time	to	exhaustion	 during	submaximal	 exercise	 bouts	lasting	approx-
imately	30	to	60	minutes,	 though	 results	are	more	inconsistent	 when	activities	 of	
shorter	duration	 are	examined.	 Caffeine	 as	an	ergogenic	 substance	 has	been	evalu-
ated	for	several	decades.	 Despite	an	overwhelming	 agreement	 on	caffeine’s	 ability	to	
improve	 endurance	 performance,	 the	precise	mechanism	 as	to	how	this	compound 	
exerts	its	ergogenic	 effect	still	remains	 elusive.	For	years	it	has	been	postulated	 that	
caffeine	 causes	glycogen	 sparing	 and	therefore	 prolongs	 endurance	 performance. 	
However, 	in	terms	of	the	exercise	duration 	for	which	caffeine	was	found	to	be	
effective,	 it	is	unlikely	 that	muscle	glycogen	 would	be	depleted	 and	thus	serves	as	a	
limiting	 factor.	In	a	recent	study	by	Graham	 et al.	(2000)	who	employed 	a	muscle	
biopsy	technique,	 it	was	found	that	the	ingestion	 of	caffeine	 at	5	mg	kg–1 did not alter 
muscle	glycogen	 utilization.	 Most	studies	have	used	a	relatively	 small	sample	size	(i.e.,	
~8	subjects),	 which	may	have	reduced	 the	statistical	 power	needed	to	detect	the	differ-
ence.	Nevertheless,	 by	pooling	 together	 the	studies	conducted	 in	the	same	laboratory 	
but	at	different	 times	and	which	involved	 a	total	of	37	subjects,	 Graham	 (2001)	failed	
to	observe	a	significant	 difference	 in	muscle	glycogen	 utilization	 between	 the	caffeine	
and	placebo	conditions.Table 11.5 	Caffeine	content	of	some	common	foods,	beverages,	and	medicines
Common product Serving size Caffeine (mg)
Baking	chocolate 	28	g	(1	oz) 	45
Chocolate	candy 	57	g	(2	oz) 	45
Chocolate	milk 237	ml	(8	oz) 	48
Mello	yellow 355	ml	(12	oz) 	51
Mountain	dew 355	ml	(12	oz) 	54
Cola	beverages 355	ml	(12	oz) 	32–65
Instant	coffee 177	ml	(6	oz) 	54–75
Brewing	coffee 177	ml	(6	oz) 150–200
Ice	tea 355	ml	(12	oz) 150
Hot	tea 177	ml	(6	oz) 	65–105
Aspirin	products Standard	dose 	30–125
Vivarin	tablets 1	tablet 200

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		261
	 Another	 metabolic	 claim	associated	 with	caffeine	 is	that	it	increases	 fat	utilization.	
This	notion	was	derived	from	early	studies	in	which	caffeine	resulted	 in	a	larger	decrease	
in	muscle	triglycerides	 concomitant	 with	less	utilization	 of	muscle	glycogen	 (Essig	 et al.	
1980).	It	has	been	speculated	 that	caffeine	 increases	 fat	oxidation	 by	augmenting	 lipoly-
sis,	a	process	stimulated	 by	the	release	of	epinephrine	 and	norepinephrine.	 However,	
according	 to	more	recent	studies	by	Raguso	 et al.	(1996)	and	Graham	 et al.	(2000),	vari-
ables	reflecting	 intracellular	 utilization	 of	fatty	acids	such	as	fat	oxidation	 and	uptake	of	
fatty	acids	by	muscle	remained	 unaffected	 by	caffeine.	 These	findings	 provide	 little	
support	for	the	theory	that	caffeine	increases	fat	oxidation.
Carnitine (L- carnitine)
L- carnitine ,	a	substance	 found	in	relatively	 high	quantities	 in	meat,	has	received	 a	lot	of	
attention	 over	the	past	20	years.	As	a	supplement	 it	has	been	very	popular	 among	
athletes,	 especially	 after	rumors	circulated	 that	it	helped	the	Italian	national	 soccer	team	
become	 world	champions	 in	1982.	L-	carnitine	 can	be	synthesized	 from	lysine	and	
methionine,	 and	synthesis	 occurs	in	the	liver	and	kidneys.	 Therefore,	 even	when	dietary	
sources	are	insufficient,	 the	body	can	produce	 enough	from	lysine	and	methionine	 to	
maintain	 a	normal	storage.	 As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	9, 	carnitine	 functions	 as	a	carrier	
protein	that	helps	transport	 long-	chain	fatty	acids	into	the	mitochondrial	 matrix	so	that	
they	may	be	oxidized.	 In	this	context,	 carnitine	 is	often	regarded	 as	a	“fat	burner.”	 It	is	
assumed	 that	oral	ingestion	 of	carnitine	 increases	 the	muscle	carnitine	 concentration.	
This	will	then	cause	an	increase	 in	fat	oxidation	 and	a	gradual	loss	of	the	body	fat	stores.	
However,	 several	studies	have	shown	that	oral	ingestion	 of	carnitine	 up	to	14	days	pro-
duces	no	change	in	muscle	carnitine	concentration.
	 L-	carnitine	 supplementation	 has	also	been	thought	 to	be	ergogenic	 in	improving	
endurance	 performance.	 This	belief	is	based	on	the	similar	assumption	 mentioned	
earlier	that	oral	ingestion	 of	carnitine	 increases	 the	total	carnitine	 concentration	 in	the	
muscle	and	that	the	increase	 in	muscle	carnitine	 increases	 the	oxidation	 rate	of	plasma	
fatty	acids	and	intramuscular	 triglycerides.	 This	increased	 fat	oxidation	 will	in	turn	
reduce	muscle	glycogen	 breakdown	 and	postpone	 fatigue.	However,	 the	results	of	nearly	
all	of	the	experimental	 trials	have	not	revealed	 a	positive	influence	 on	either	fatty	acid	
utilization	 or	glycogen	 sparing,	 nor	does	carnitine	 supplementation	 delay	fatigue	
(Heinonen	 1996,	Wagenmakers	 1999).	In	addition,	 direct	measurements	 of	muscle	fol-
lowing	14	days	of	carnitine	 supplementation	 failed	to	show	increases	 in	the	muscle	car-
nitine	concentration	 (Barnett	 et al.	1994,	Vukovich	 et al.	1994).	It	has	been	found	that	
carnitine	 helps	in	preventing	 lactic	acid	from	increasing	 via	its	effect	on	the	mainte-
nance	of	acetyl-	CoA	to	CoA	ratio	(Bremer	 1983).	Nevertheless,	 Trappe	 et al.	(1994)	
found	that	lactate	accumulation,	 acid	base	balance,	 or	performance	 in	5	100-yard	 swims	
with	2-minute	 rest	intervals	 did	not	differ	among	competitive	 swimmers	 who	consume	
2	g	of	L-	carnitine	twice	a	day	for	7	days	and	swimmers	who	consume	the	placebo.
	 L-	carnitine	 also	acts	as	a	vasodilator	 in	peripheral	 tissues,	thus	possibly	 enhancing	
regional	 blood	flow	and	oxygen	delivery.	 In	one	study,	subjects	 took	either	L-	carnitine	
supplements	 (3	g/day	for	3	weeks)	or	an	inert	placebo	 to	evaluate	 the	effectiveness	 of	
L-	carnitine	 supplementation	 on	delayed	onset	of	muscle	soreness	 (DOMS)	 (Giamberar -
dino et al.	1996).	They	then	performed	 eccentric	 muscle	actions	to	induce	muscle	sore-
ness.	Compared	 with	placebo	 conditions,	 subjects	who	took	the	treatment	 experienced	
less	post-	exercise	 muscle	pain	and	tissue	damage	as	indicated	 by	lower	plasma-	level	crea-
tine	kinase.	These	findings	 suggest	that	the	vasodilation	 property	 of	L-	carnitine	 may	
improve	 oxygen	supply	to	injured	tissue	and	promote	 clearance	 of	muscle	damage	 by-	
products,	thus	reducing	DOMS.

262  Ergogenic aids and supplements
Chromium
Chromium 	is	a	trace	mineral	 present	in	foods	such	as	brewer’s	 yeast,	cheese,	broccoli,	
wheat	germ,	nuts,	liver,	apples	with	the	skin	on,	asparagus,	 mushrooms,	 and	egg	yolks.	
As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	6, 	chromium	 potentiates	 insulin	action	and	insulin	stimulates	
the	glucose	and	amino	acid	uptake	by	muscle	cells.	The	stimulated	 amino	acid	uptake	is	
thought	 to	increase	 protein	synthesis	 and	thus	muscle	mass.	For	this	reason,	chromium	
is	considered	 ergogenic	 and	helps	athletes	 improve	 their	strength	 and	power.	Chro-
mium	supplements	 are	marketed	 mainly	as	chromium	 picolinate.	 Picolinate	 is	derived	
from	amino	acid	tryptophan	 and	binds	with	chromium	 in	order	to	enhance	 intestinal	
absorption	 of	chromium.	 Chromium	 exists	mainly	as	a	positively	 charged	 ion	(e.g.,	Cr+3).	
Thus,	combining	 with	picolinate	 would	decrease	 the	potential	 interaction	 between	 chro-
mium	and	other	negatively	 charged	 substances	 in	food	such	as	phytates.	 Touted	as	a	
“muscle	 builder,”	 chromium	 represents	 one	of	the	largest-	selling	mineral	 supplements	
in	the	United	States	–	second	only	to	calcium.
	 The	ergogenic	 impact	of	chromium	 supplementation	 was	demonstrated	 in	earlier	
studies	in	which	college	students	 as	well	as	football	players	were	given	200	µg	of	chro-
mium	picolinate	 or	a	placebo	each	day	for	40	days	while	they	were	on	a	resistance	 train-
ing	program	 (Evans	1989).	It	was	found	that	those	who	took	chromium	 supplementation	
gained	significantly	 more	lean	body	mass	as	compared	 to	the	control	group,	although	
lean	body	mass	was	estimated	 from	skinfold	 thickness.	 However,	 later	studies	(Clancy	
et al.	1994,	Hallmark	 et al.	1996,	Hasten	 et al.	1992,	Lukaski	 et al.	1996)	which	used	more	
sophisticated	 techniques	 to	determine	 body	composition	 have	not	been	able	to	confirm	
the	results	of	Evans	(1989).	For	example,	 in	a	study	by	Lukaski	 et al.	(1996),	chromium	
supplements	 in	nearly	the	same	amount	 as	were	used	by	Evans	(1989)	were	given	to	a	
group	of	young	men	who	were	also	in	a	resistance	 training	 program,	 and	no	change	in	
body	composition	 and	strength	 were	observed	 between	 the	treatment	 and	placebo	
groups.	In	another	study	by	Clancy	 et al.	(1994),	football	players	received	 200	µg	of	chro-
mium	picolinate	 each	day	for	9	weeks	during	strength	 training	 program.	 Here	again,	
supplementation	 failed	to	independently	 affect	percentage	 of	body	fat,	lean	body	mass,	
and	muscular	 strength.	 Clearly,	the	ergogenic	 benefits	 of	chromium	 supplementation	
remain	questionable.
	 Caution	 must	be	exercised	 in	the	use	of	chromium	 supplements.	 No	studies	have	
evaluated	 the	safety	of	long-	term	supplementation	 with	chromium	 picolinate	 or	ergo-
genic	efficacy	of	supplementation	 in	individuals	 with	less	than	optimal	chromium	 status.	
Concerning	 the	bioavailability	 of	trace	minerals	 in	the	diet,	excessive	 dietary	chromium	
can	inhibit	zinc	and	iron	absorption.	 At	the	extreme,	 this	could	result	in	iron-	deficient	
anemia,	 blunt	the	ability	to	train	intensely,	 and	negatively	 affect	the	performance	 of	
exercises	 that	depend	on	a	high	level	of	oxygen	supply.	Based	on	laboratory	 studies	of	
cultured	 cells,	an	accumulation	 of	chromium	 picolinate	 in	cells	was	shown	to	cause	chro-
mosome	 damage	(Stearns	 et al.	1995),	although	 this	finding	has	yet	to	be	demonstrated	
in	humans.
Coenzyme Q 10 (ubiquinone)
Coenzyme Q 10	is	often	referred	 to	as	CoQ	10	or	ubiquinone.	 It	is	found	primarily	 in	
meats,	peanuts,	 and	soybean	 oil.	It	functions	 as	an	integral	component	 of	the	mitochon -
drion’s	electron	 transport	 system,	and	therefore	 plays	an	important	 role	in	oxidative	
phosphorylation.	 This	lipid-	soluble	natural	component	 of	all	cells	exists	in	high	concen-
trations	within	myocardial	 tissues.	CoQ	10	has	been	used	clinically	 to	treat	cardiovascular	
diseases	and	promote	 recovery	 from	cardiac	surgery	owing	to	its	antioxidant	 properties	

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		263
that	promote	 scavenging	 of	free	radicals	(Vasankari	 et al.	1997).	Due	to	its	positive	effect	
on	oxygen	uptake	and	exercise	 performance	 in	cardiac	patients,	 CoQ	10	has	been	con-
sidered	as	an	ergogenic	 aid	for	endurance	 performance.	 The	rationale	 behind	this	con-
sideration	 is	that	supplementation	 could	increase	 the	flux	of	electron	 through	 the	
respiratory	chain	and	thus	augment	aerobic	resynthesis	of	ATP.
	 Based	 on	the	current	literature,	 it	appears	that	supplementation	 of	CoQ	10 increases 
serum	CoQ	10	levels,	but	it	does	not	improve	 aerobic	capacity	 and	endurance	 perform-
ance	(Braun	 et al.	1991,	Snider	 et al.	1992,	Zuliani	 et al.	1989).	For	example,	 a	study	
which	provided	 male	cyclists	with	100	mg	per	day	of	ubiquinone	 for	8	weeks	failed	to	
demonstrate	 improvements	 in	cycling	performance,	 VO2max,	and	lipid	peroxidation	
(Braun	 et al.	1991).	Likewise,	 when	triathlons	 were	given	100	mg	of	ubiquinone	 in	a	daily	
supplement	 that	also	contained	 vitamin	E,	inosine,	 and	cytochrome	 c	for	4	weeks,	no	
differences	 in	endurance	 performance	 and	blood	glucose,	 lactate,	and	free	fatty	acid	
concentrations	 at	exhaustion	 were	observed	 between	 treatment	 and	placebo	 condition	
(Snider	 et al.	1992).	In	a	study	in	which	tissue	CoQ	10	level	was	measured,	 Svensson	 et al.	
(1999)	reported	 that	ingestion	 of	120	mg	of	CoQ	10	daily	for	20	days	resulted	 in	marked	
increases	 in	plasma	CoQ	10	concentration.	 However,	 the	muscle	CoQ	10	levels	as	well	as	
other	cellular	activities	 such	as	lipid	peroxidation	 and	mitochondrial	 function	 remained	
unaltered.	 This	finding	may	explain	why	most	studies	failed	to	demonstrate	 ergogenic	
values	of	CoQ	10	supplementation	 despite	the	fact	that	supplementation	 increased	
plasma	CoQ	10	concentration.
Creatine
Creatine	is	a	nitrogen-	 containing	 molecule	 produced	 in	the	liver,	kidneys,	 and	pancreas.	
Because	 creatine	 can	be	synthesized	 internally,	 it	is	not	considered	 an	essential	 nutrient.	
In	normal,	 healthy	individuals,	 creatine	 is	synthesized	 at	about	1	to	2	grams	per	day.	At	
approximately	 the	same	rate,	creatine	 is	broken	down	into	creatinine	 and	excreted	 in	
the	urine.	Under	normal	circumstances,	 the	degradation	 of	creatine	 is	matched	 by	its	
synthesis.	 In	strength	 and	power	athletes,	 however,	 the	rate	of	creatine	 breakdown	 is	
expected	 to	be	much	higher.	Therefore,	 adequate	 dietary	creatine	 becomes	 important	
for	obtaining	 the	required	 amounts	 of	this	compound.	 Because	 creatine	 is	found	in	
meat	products	 such	as	meat,	poultry,	and	fish,	vegetarians	 are	at	a	distinct	disadvantage	
in	obtaining	ready	sources	of	exogenous	creatine.
	 Creatine	 is	synthesized	 from	arginine,	 glycine,	 and	methionine.	 Once	synthesized,	
creatine	 is	transported	 via	the	blood	from	the	liver	and	kidneys	to	the	muscle.	Muscle	
takes	up	creatine	 against	the	concentration	 gradient	 by	an	active	transport	 process.	 A	
70-kg	(154	lb)	man	may	have	a	creatine	 pool	of	approximately	 120	grams	or	a	little	more	
than	1/4	lb,	95	percent	of	which	is	in	muscle	tissues.	Of	course,	skeletal	muscle	repres-
ents	the	largest	reservoir	 of	creatine	 among	three	types	of	muscle	tissue	(e.g.,	skeletal,	
smooth,	 and	cardiac	muscle	tissue).	About	40	percent	of	the	total	exists	as	free	creatine;	
the	remainder	 combines	 readily	with	phosphate	 to	form	phosphocreatine	 (PCr).	Type	II	
or	fast-	twitch	muscle	fibers	store	about	30	percent	more	creatine	than	type	I	fibers.
	 As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	8, 	the	body	has	limited	storage	of	ATP	and	during	maximal	
exercise	 the	ATP	stores	can	only	provide	energy	for	several	seconds.	 With	ATP	falling	by	
30	percent,	 the	muscle	fatigues	(Hultman	 et al.	1991).	PCr	serves	as	the	“energy	reser-
voir”	to	provide	rapid	phosphate-	 bond	energy	to	resynthesize	 ATP	and	to	maintain	 ATP	
concentration	 close	to	resting	levels.	In	doing	so,	the	maximal	 work	of	muscle	may	be	
sustained	 for	a	longer	period	of	time.	This	process	occurs	during	the	first	few	seconds	of	
high-	intensity	 exercise,	 and	thus	allows	time	for	other	more	sustained	 glycogen	 break-
down	and	glycolysis	 to	speed	up	to	the	required	 rate.	Another	 important	 function	 of	PCr	

264  Ergogenic aids and supplements
is	that	it	helps	with	buffering	 capacity	for	hydrogen	 ions.	Hydrogen	 ions	are	used	during	
ATP	regeneration.	 Therefore,	 as	PCr	continues	 to	be	used	to	phosphorylate	 ADP	to	
ATP,	fewer	free	hydrogen	 ions	will	be	available.	 The	increased	 availability	 of	PCr	also	
lessens	reliance	 on	energy	transfer	 from	anaerobic	 glycolysis	 with	subsequent	 lactate	
formation.
	 Creatine	 became	a	popular	supplement	 following	 the	1992	Olympics	 in	Barcelona.	 For	
example,	 gold	medal	winners	 Linford	Christie	 in	the	men’s	100-meter	 dash	and	Sally	
Gunnell	in	the	women’s	400-meter 	hurdles	supposedly 	used	creatine	supplements. 	By	the	
Olympics	 game	in	Atlanta	in	1996,	approximately	 80	percent	of	all	athletes	were	using	cre-
atine.	Since	then,	creatine	 has	become	one	of	the	most	popular	 ergogenic	 aids	used	by	
athletes	worldwide.	 Creatine	 is	usually	marketed	 in	the	form	of	creatine	 monohydrate. 	
Most	studies	used	a	creatine	 loading	regimen	 of	20	to	25	g/day	in	4	portions	 of	5	to	6	g	
each	given	at	different	 times	of	the	day	for	5	to	7	days.	This	is	because	a	similar	loading	
regimen	 has	been	shown	to	increase	 the	muscle	creatine	 concentration	 by	20	percent	
(Hultman	 et al.	1996).	Hultman	 et al.	(1999)	also	found	that	a	subsequent	 dose	of	2	g/day	
was	enough	to	maintain	 the	high	total	creatine	 concentration	 for	35	days,	whereas	 stop-
ping	creatine	supplementation	 after	6	days	caused	a	slow	and	gradual	decline	of	the	creat-
ine	concentration	 in	muscle.	Another	 approach	 suggested	 by	this	same	research	 group	is	
to	take	creatine	at	a	constant	dose	of	3	g/day,	but	in	order	to	achieve	a	similar	total	muscle	
creatine	concentration	 one	would	need	to	maintain	 daily	consumption	 for	about	a	month.	
It	was	also	found	that	creatine	 taken	in	conjunction	 with	carbohydrate	 would	produce	
greater	creatine	 retention	 compared	 with	creatine	 alone	(Green	 et al.	1996).	It	is	con-
sidered	that	by	adding	carbohydrate	 the	supplement	 would	trigger	a	greater	release	of	
insulin,	which	would	then	increase	tissue	uptake	of	creatine.
	 Research	 regarding	 the	effect	of	creatine	 supplementation	 on	performance	 in	
humans	 began	in	the	early	1990s.	Since	then	it	has	quickly	proliferated	 up	until	the	
present.	 Of	the	studies	published,	 a	majority	 have	been	in	favor	of	this	ergogenic	 aid.	In	
general,	 oral	supplements	 of	creatine	 monohydrate	 at	20	to	25	grams	per	day	increase	
muscle	creatine	 and	performance	 of	both	men	and	women	in	intense	exercise,	 particu-
larly	repeated	 intensity	 of	muscular	 effort.	Even	a	daily	dose	as	low	as	6	grams	for	5	days	
elicits	improvement	 in	repeated	 power	performance.	 The	exercises	 used	in	the	studies	
that	observed	 the	ergogenic	 effect	of	creatine	 supplements	 are	mainly	sprint	or	repeated	
sprint	events	that	involve	running,	 cycling,	and	swimming.	 Supplementation	 has	not	
been	shown	to	improve	 endurance	 performance,	 but	if	a	competition	 involves	sprinting	
such	as	cycling	breakaway	 or	final	running	 sprints,	creatine	 may	be	of	benefit.	 It	has	
been	postulated	 that	creatine	 could	facilitate	 aerobic	energy	production	 and	enhance	
endurance	 performance	 because	 creatine	 PCr	provides	 a	shuttle	system	for	the	transfer	
of	high-	energy	phosphate	 groups	from	mitochondria	 where	ATP	is	produced	 to	contrac-
tile	myofibrils	 where	energy	is	used	for	making	muscle	contraction.	 However,	 this	theory	
remains	 to	be	tested.	Endurance	 athletes	must	also	consider	 the	potential	 weight	gain	
that	may	accompany	creatine	supplementation.
	 Several	 studies	have	reported	 an	increase	 in	total	body	mass	and	lean	body	mass	and	
a	corresponding	 decrease	 in	percentage	 of	body	fat.	It	is	likely	that	creatine	 causes	water	
retention	 in	skeletal	muscle	cells	due	to	an	increase	 in	the	intracellular	 osmolarity	 of	the	
muscle	cells.	Many	believe	that	the	creatine-	 induced	 increase	 in	water	retention	 leads	to	
increased	 protein	synthesis,	 although	 in	the	short	term	(i.e.,	5	to	6	days),	the	increase	 in	
protein	synthesis	 may	not	be	of	great	magnitude.	 Such	favorable	 change	in	body	com-
position	 has	also	been	attributed	 to	a	high	quality	of	training	 due	to	creatine	 supple-
mentation.	 The	increase	 in	body	mass	may	be	beneficial.	 However,	 in	sports	that	involve	
weight-	bearing	 activities,	 such	as	running	 and	gymnastics,	 the	weight	gain	caused	by	
creatine	 supplementation	 could	have	a	negative	 impact	upon	performance.	 Figure 	11.1 	

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		265
illustrates	 the	proposed	 mechanisms	 demonstrating	 how	elevating	 intramuscular	 creat-
ine	and	phosphocreatine	 enhances	 intense,	short-	term	performance	 and	improves	 body	
composition.
DHEA and androstenedione
Dehydroepiandrosterone 	(DHEA)	 and	its	sulfated	metabolite	 (DHEAS)	 are	produced	 in	
the	body	by	the	adrenal	glands.	Both	DHEA	and	DHEAS	circulate	 to	peripheral	 tissues	
where	they	are	converted	 into	androgens	 (including	 testosterone)	 and/or	estrogen	
(Figure	11.2). 	DHEA	is	derived	from	cholesterol	 and	may	be	converted	 into	androstene -
dione	and	then	into	testosterone.	 The	ability	of	tissue	to	convert	DHEA	into	androstene -
dione,	into	testosterone,	 and/or	estrogen	 relies	on	the	presence	 of	steroidogenic	 and/
or	metabolizing	 enzyme	systems.	 Both	androstenedione	 and	testosterone	 may	be	con-
verted	into	estrogen	 via	aromatase.	 Many	tissues	produce	 these	converting	 enzymes,	
including	 gonads	(testes	and	ovaries),	 liver,	kidneys,	 and	adipose	tissue.	This	allows	the	
conversion	 of	both	hormones	 to	be	regulated	 at	tissue	level.	Skeletal	 muscle	lacks	the	
ability	to	convert	androstenedione	into	testosterone.
	 Body	 levels	of	DHEA	are	high	in	young	adulthood,	 with	the	peak	production	 occur-
ring	between	 the	ages	of	18	and	25,	and	gradually	 decrease	 with	aging.	In	contrast	 to	the	
glucocorticoid	 and	mineralocorticoid	 (i.e.,	aldosterone)	 adrenal	steroids	whose	plasma	
levels	remain	relatively	 high	with	aging,	a	long	and	slow	decline	in	DHEA	begins	after	
the	age	of	30.	This	has	fueled	speculation	 that	plasma	DHEA	may	play	a	role	in	biologi-
cal	aging	and	its	related	dysfunctions	 or	diseases.	 As	such,	it	is	believed	 that	supplement -
ing	with	DHEA	blunts	the	negative	 effects	of	aging	by	raising	plasma	levels	of	DHEA	to	
more	“youthful”	 concentrations	 (Percheron	 et al.	2003).	Among	the	popular	 claims	for	
using	DHEA	include	(1)	blunts	aging,	(2)	facilitates	 weight	loss,	(3)	boosts	immune	
function,	(4)	protects	heart,	and	(5)	increases	muscle	mass. Dependence
on glycolysis
 PCr
resynthesis
 PCr at the
start of next
exercise bout
 Short-term
or repeated-
bouts
performanceLactate
pH
Fatigability Hydration
status of cell
 Protein
synthesis
 Fat-free
mass
Training
intensity Cr and PCr
in muscleCreatine
supplements
Figure 11.1 		Possible	 mechanisms	 of	how	creatine	 supplementation	 works	in	improving	
performance	and	body	composition

266  Ergogenic aids and supplements
	 Treatment	 with	DHEA	has	been	shown	to	have	beneficial	 effects	in	preventing	 dis-
eases,	such	as	cancers,	 atherosclerosis,	 viral	infections,	 obesity	and	diabetes,	 and	enhanc-
ing	immune	 function	 and	life	span,	but	results	came	from	studies	that	used	rodents.	
Scientists	 have	argued	that	the	findings	 from	research	 on	rats	and	mice	who	produce	
little,	if	any,	DHEA,	do	not	necessarily	 apply	to	healthy	human.	 Results	from	human	
studies	are	mixed.	Evidence	 that	supports	 the	use	of	DHEA	came	from	the	cross-	
sectional	 comparisons	 relating	 levels	of	DHEA	to	risk	of	death	from	heart	disease.	
However,	 it	was	found	that	a	high	DHEA	level	conferred	 cardio-	protective	 effects	only	in	
men,	not	in	women.	 In	the	context	of	ergogenic	 aid,	the	DHEA-	induced	 improvement	
in	body	composition,	 immune	 function,	 and	muscular	 strength	 have	been	reported	 in	
studies	involving	 middle	aged	and	elderly	adults	(Villareal	 and	Holloszy	 2006).	However,	
research	 in	young	men	who	were	given	DHEA	at	comparable	 doses	failed	to	demon-
strate	any	positive	effect	on	serum	testosterone,	 lean	body	mass	and	muscular	 strength	
(Percheron	 et al.	2003,	Wallace	 et al.	1999).	Therefore,	 despite	its	popularity	 among	exer-
cise	enthusiasts,	 no	data	exist	concerning	 ergogenic	 effects	of	DHEA	supplements	 on	
young	adults.	Use	of	DHEA	supplements	 for	the	elderly	seems	to	be	more	promising,	
but	its	safety	remains	to	be	further	investigated.
 Androstenedione 	and	related	compounds	 such	as	androstenediol	 and	norandrostene -
diol	function	 similarly	 to	DHEA.	Androstenedione	 is	an	intermediate	 or	precursor	
hormone	 between	 DHEA	and	testosterone	 (Figure 	11.2). 	Normally	 produced	 by	the	
adrenal	glands	and	gonads,	it	converts	 into	testosterone	 by	17β-hydroxysteroid	 dehydro-
genase	found	in	diverse	tissues.	Androstenedione	 also	serves	as	an	estrogen	 precursor.	
Originally	 developed	 by	East	Germany	 in	the	1970s	to	enhance	 performance	 of	their	
elite	athletes,	 androstenedione	 was	first	made	commercially	 available	 in	the	United	
States	in	1996.	Androstenedione	 received	 considerable	 notoriety	 during	the	1998	base-
ball	season	when	Mark	McGwire,	 who	established	 a	home	run	record	at	that	time,	Cholesterol
Pregnenolone Progesterone
TestosteroneEstrone
Estrogen
DihydrotestosteroneAndrostenedione17-hydroxy-
progenolene17-hydroxy-
progesterone
Dehydroepiandrosterone
(DHEA)
Figure 11.2 	Metabolic	pathways	for	producing	DHEA	and	androstenedione

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		267
acknowledged	 using	this	supplement.	 Subsequently,	 androstenedione-	 related	products	
flooded	 the	marketplace	 for	resistance-	 trained	individuals,	 even	though	no	reputable	
research	was	available	supporting	its	beneficial	effects.
	 It	remains	controversial	 as	to	whether	 androstenedione	 supplementation	 can	increase	
the	level	of	testosterone	 in	the	blood.	Leder	 et al.	(2000)	observed	 that	although	 a	week-	
long	supplementation	 of	androstenedione	 at	100	mg	per	day	did	not	alter	serum	testo-
sterone	levels,	at	300	mg	it	elevated	 testosterone	 levels	by	24	percent.	 In	this	study,	
however,	 no	performance	 was	measured.	 On	the	other	hand,	by	supplementing	 subjects	
with	androstenedione	 at	300	mg/day	for	8	weeks,	King	 et al.	(1999)	failed	to	observe	any	
significant	 effects	on	serum	testosterone,	 body	fat,	lean	body	mass,	muscle	fiber	dia-
meters,	 or	muscle	strength,	 although	 serum	androstenedione	 levels	increased	 100	
percent	 in	the	treatment	 group.	Of	particular	 interest	is	that	they	noted	a	significant	
increase	 in	serum	estradiol	 and	estrogen	 concentrations,	 suggesting	 an	increased	 aroma-
tization	of	ingested	 androstenedione	 to	estrogen	 instead	of	testosterone.	 Based	on	these	
findings,	 it	appears	that	androstenedione	 supplementation	 does	not	predictably	 elevate	
serum	testosterone	 levels.	Even	though	some	researchers	 found	significant	 increases	 of	
testosterone	 levels	in	the	blood,	these	increases	 were	not	accompanied	 by	favorable	
changes	in	protein	synthesis,	muscle	mass,	or	strength.
	 Concerns	 exist	about	the	effect	of	long-	term	DHEA	and	androstenedione	 supplementa -
tion	on	body	function	 and	overall	health.	Converting	 these	anabolic	 hormone	 precursors 	
into	potent	androgens 	like	testosterone 	in	the	body	promotes 	facial	hair	growth	in	females	
and	alters	normal	menstrual	 function.	 As	with	exogenous	 anabolic	 steroids,	 DHEA	or	
androstenedione	 through	 supplementation	 may	stimulate	 the	growth	of	the	prostate	gland	
that	can	lead	to	a	tumor.	They	may	also	accelerate 	the	growth	of	cancer	cells	if	cancer	is	
present.	 In	addition,	 a	lowering	 of	HDL	cholesterol	 has	been	reported	 in	a	few	studies	
(Broeder	 et al.	2000,	Brown	 et al.	2000).	A	low	level	of	HDL	cholesterol	 is	considered	 a	risk	
factor	for	heart	disease.	The	IOC	and	NCAA	have	placed	both	DHEA	and	androstenedi -
one	on	their	banned	substance	 list	at	zero-	tolerance	 level.	Supplementation	 of	these	sub-
stances	may	influence	 the	ratio	of	testosterone	 to	epitestosterone	 (T/E),	which	is	used	to	
screen	for	steroid	doping	by	organizations	such	as	the	IOC	and	NCAA.
Ephedrine
Ephedrine 	is	a	sympathomimetic	 agent	which	is	structurally	 related	to	catecholamine.	 It	
is	found	in	several	species	of	the	plant	Ephedra	 and	has	been	used	for	thousands	 of	
years	as	a	herbal	medicine.	 Ephedra,	 which	is	also	called	Ma-	Huang,	is	the	dry	stem	of	a	
plant	that	is	indigenous	 to	China,	Pakistan,	 and	northwestern	 India.	While	ephedrine	
occurs	naturally	 in	some	botanicals,	 it	can	also	be	synthetically	 derived.	 Ephedrine	 is	
widely	available	 in	over-	the-counter	 remedies	 for	nasal	congestion	 and	hay	fever.	It	has	
also	been	used	as	a	central	stimulant	to	treat	depression	and	sleep	disorders.
	 Ephedrine	 is	a	potent	chemical	 stimulant	 with	a	variety	of	peripheral	 and	central	
effects.	It	acts	by	enhancing	 the	release	of	norepinephrine	 from	sympathetic	 neurons	
and is also a potent ß-adrenergic	 agonist.	In	this	regard,	ephedrine	 has	been	known	for	
its	effect	of	stimulating	 bronchodilation,	 increasing	 heart	rate	and	cardiac	contraction,	
and	augmenting	 energy	expenditure	 and	fat	oxidation.	 Ephedrine	 also	functions	 to	sup-
press	appetite	and	food	intake	through	adrenergic	pathways	in	the	hypothalamus.
	 Ephedrine	 is	recognized	 as	an	anti-	obesity	drug	due	mainly	to	its	stimulating	 effect	on	
the	sympathetic	 nervous	system.	Ephedrine’s	 potential	 for	weight	loss	was	first	reported	 in	
1972.	It	was	noted	that	asthmatic	 patients	being	treated	with	a	compound	 containing	 ephe-
drine,	caffeine,	 and	phenobarbitol	 experienced	 unintentional	 weight	loss.	This	unex-
pected	discovery 	led	to	a	series	of	investigations 	aimed	to	authenticate 	whether	ephedrine	

268		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
is	indeed	effective	in	facilitating 	weight	loss	and	whether	it	warrants	safety	concerns, 	despite	
its	efficacy.	 Among	the	early	studies	in	which	ephedrine	 was	the	only	substance	 tested,	
results	of	energy	expenditure	 and	weight	loss	are	controversial.	 Astrup	 et al.	(1985)	noticed	
a	sizable	increase	 in	resting	oxygen	consumption	 and	a	significant	 reduction	 in	body	
weight	in	obese	women	who	were	treated	with	ephedrine	 at	60	mg	per	day.	However, 	
Pasquali	 et al.	(1987a)	found	that	administering	 ephedrine	 at	a	dose	of	75	or	150	mg	per	
day	produced	 essentially	 no	effect	compared	 to	the	placebo	condition	 in	obese	individuals. 	
In	this	study,	side-	effects	such	as	agitation,	 insomnia,	 headache,	 palpitation,	 giddiness, 	
tremor,	and	constipation 	were	reported	in	the	group	treated	with	150	mg	per	day.	This	
same	research	 group,	however,	 observed	 that	when	ephedrine	 was	given	at	a	dose	of	
150	mg	per	day	in	conjunction	 with	a	more	stringent	 hypocaloric	 diet	(~	1000	kcal	per	day),	
obese	women	did	experience	 significant	 weight	loss	(Pasquali	 et al.	1987b).	It	appears	that	
the	efficacy	is	questionable	especially	when	ephedrine	is	given	alone.
	 Ephedrine	 has	also	been	promoted	 as	a	performance-	 enhancing	 or	ergogenic	 aid.	
However,	 most	studies	have	not	demonstrated	 any	kind	of	improvement	 in	athletic	per-
formance	 following	 ingestion	 of	ephedrine	 alone	at	a	dose	generally	 considered	 safe,	
i.e.,	<120	mg.	DeMeersman	 et al.	(1987)	found	no	significant	 effects	of	ephedrine 	
administrated	 in	a	dose	of	40	mg	on	sustained	 aerobic	exercise.	 Swain	 et al.	(1997)	also	
failed	to	observe	increases	 in	VO2max	and	endurance	 time	to	exhaustion	 following	 con-
sumption	 of	pseudoephedrine	 at	doses	of	1	or	2	mg	kg–1.	Ephedrine 	also	seems	to	be	
ineffective	 with	respect	to	its	impact	on	anaerobic	 performance.	 Chu	 et al.	(2002)	
reported	 that	ingestion	 of	pseudoephedrine	 of	120	mg	two	hours	before	testing	did	not	
improve	 muscular	 strength	 as	measured	 by	intermittent	 isometric	 contraction	 and	
anaerobic	 performance	 as	measured	 by	the	Wingate	 cycling	test	comprising	 30	seconds	
of	maximal	 cycling	against	a	predetermined	 resistance.	 It	may	be	argued	that	a	thresh-
old	dosage	level	exists	for	the	ergogenic	 effects	of	ephedrine	 to	manifest,	 as	the	peak	
weight-	lifting	performance	 was	improved	 with	taking	a	high	dose	(180	mg)	of	pseu-
doephedrine	 (Gill	 et al.	2000).	Nevertheless, 	in	a	more	recent	study	in	which	subjects	
were	fed	240	mg	of	pseudoephedrine,	 Chester	 et al.	(2003)	failed	to	demonstrate	 an	
ergogenic	 effect,	although	 the	testing	protocol	 of	this	study	involved	 aerobic	rather	
than	anaerobic	performance.
	 More	 recently,	 a	great	deal	of	research	 has	also	been	undertaken	 to	investigate	 the	
ergogenic	 effect	of	ephedrine	 in	combination	 with	caffeine.	 There	is	a	consensus	 that	
the	combined	 use	of	ephedrine	 and	caffeine	 is	of	greater	ergogenic	 benefit	than	each	
compound	 used	alone.	For	instance,	 Bell	 et al.	(2001)	demonstrated	 a	significant	
increase	 in	power	output	during	a	30-second	 Wingate	 test	following	 the	ingestion	 of	
ephedrine	 (1	mg	kg–1)	alone	and	in	combination	 with	caffeine	 (5	mg	kg–1)	as	compared	
with	caffeine	 alone	and	placebo.	 Using	the	same	treatment	 paradigm,	 this	research	
group	also	found	a	significant	 reduction	 in	time	spent	during	a	10	k	race	following	 inges-
tion	of	ephedrine	 (0.8	mg	kg–1)	alone	and	in	combination	 with	caffeine	 (4	mg	kg- 1)	as	
compared	 with	caffeine	 alone	and	placebo	 (Bell	 et al.	2002).	The	mechanism	 respons-
ible	for	the	performance	 advantages	 of	this	combined	 approach	 is	unclear.	 It	may	be	
related	to	the	hypothesis	 that	caffeine	serves	to	prolong	 the	ephedrine-	 induced	 adrener-
gic	effect.	It	should	be	noted	that	the	amount	of	ephedrine	 used	by	Bell	 et al.	is	about	
twice	as	potent	as	pseudoephedrine	 used	in	many	early	studies.	This	may	have	also	con-
tributed	to	positive	findings	shown	by	most	of	Bell’s	publications.
	 The	most	common	 side-	effects	for	ephedrine	 are	agitation,	 insomnia,	 headache,	 pal-
pitations,	 dizziness,	 tremor,	and	constipation,	 many	of	which	are	quite	similar	to	those	
associated	 with	sympathomimetic	 drugs	such	as	phentermine	 and	fenfluramine.	
Ephedrine	 can	also	trigger	cardiovascular	 events	such	as	tachycardia,	 cardiac	arrhyth-
mias,	angina,	and	vasoconstriction	 with	hypertension,	 although	 these	cardiovascular	

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		269
side-	effects	have	been	found	to	be	relatively	 infrequent	 and	tend	to	diminish	 on	
repeated	 dosing.	Because	 of	this,	ephedrine	 and	other	sympathomimetics	 are	banned	by	
IOC	and	other	organizations	such	as	NCAA	and	NFL.
Glutamine
Glutamine 	is	a	naturally	 occurring	 nonessential	 amino	acid	and	the	most	abundant	
amino	acid	in	human	muscle	and	plasma.	It	is	important	 as	a	constituent	 of	protein	and	
as	a	means	of	nitrogen	 transport	 between	 tissues.	It	is	also	important	 in	acid-	base	regula-
tion	and	as	a	precursor	 of	the	antioxidant	 glutathione.	 Its	alleged	ergogenic	 effects	with	
glutamine	 supplementation	 may	be	classified	 as	anabolic	 and	protective.	 Glutamine	 sup-
plementation	 is	considered	 to	promote	 a	positive	protein	balance	by	enhancing	 protein	
synthesis	 and	counteracts	 the	decline	in	protein	synthesis.	 This	claim,	however,	 remains	
to	be	substantiated.	 In	a	study	that	used	female	rats,	infusing	 glutamine	 was	found	to	
inhibit	the	down-	regulation	 of	myosin	synthesis	 and	atrophy.	 Nevertheless,	 several	
human	studies	have	not	been	able	to	confirm	 this	anabolic	 effect.	For	example,	
Zachwieja	 et al.	(2000)	infused	an	amino	acid	mixture	 with	and	without	 glutamine	
directly	into	the	blood	of	male	and	female	subjects	for	several	hours	while	estimating	 the	
rate	of	muscle	protein	synthesis.	 Although	 protein	synthesis	 was	enhanced	 by	the	amino	
acid	infusion,	 there	was	no	additional	 enhancement	 with	the	mixture	 that	included	
glutamine.	 In	another	study	in	which	a	group	of	young	adults	were	given	glutamine	 sup-
plement	 at	0.9	g/kg	of	lean	body	mass	daily	while	also	undergoing	 resistance	 training	for	
6	weeks,	glutamine	 supplementation	 had	no	significant	 effect	on	muscle	performance,	
body	composition,	 or	muscle	protein	degradation	 indices	(Candow	 et al.	2001).	Data	also	
indicate	 that	glutamine	 supplementation	 promotes	 muscle	glycogen	 synthesis	 during	
recovery,	 perhaps	 by	serving	as	a	gluconeogenic	 substrate	 in	the	liver	(Varnier	 et al.	
1995).	However,	 the	practical	 application	 of	these	findings	 for	promoting	 glycogen	
replenishment	following	exercise	requires	further	research.
	 The	protective	 aspect	of	glutamine	 concerns	 its	use	as	an	energy	fuel	for	nucleotide	 syn-
thesis	by	diseases	fighting	cells,	particularly	 the	lymphocytes	 and	macrophages	 that	defend	
against	infection.	 Injury,	burns,	surgery,	and	endurance	 exercise	lower	glutamine	 levels	in	
plasma	and	skeletal	muscle	due	to	an	increase	 demand	 by	the	liver,	kidneys,	 gut,	and	
immune	 system.	It	has	been	suggested	 that	a	lowered	plasma	glutamine	 concentration	 con-
tributes,	at	least	in	part,	to	the	immune	suppression 	that	occurs	with	extreme	physical	stress	
(Smith	and	Norris	2000).	For	example,	 prolonged	 exercise	at	50	and	70	percent	VO2max 
causes	a	10	to	30	percent	fall	in	plasma	glutamine	 concentration	 that	may	last	for	several	
hours	during	recovery.	 This	fall	in	plasma	glutamine	 coincides	 with	the	time	period	during	
which	athletes	 are	more	susceptible	 to	infections	 following	 prolonged	 exercise.	 Will	
glutamine	 supplementation	 reverse	this	stress-	related	perturbation	 in	immune	 function? 	
Although	 supplementing	 glutamine	 has	been	presumed	 to	be	able	to	prevent	the	impair-
ment	of	immune	 function	 after	exhaustive	 exercise,	 insufficient	 data	exist	to	substantiate 	
this	claim.	In	fact,	most	recent	studies	have	failed	to	demonstrate	 any	effect	of	glutamine 	
supplementation	 on	preserving	 immune	 function	 following	 exhaustive	 exercise.	 The	sup-
plementation	 appears	to	prevent	the	exercise-	induced	 fall	in	plasma	glutamine	 levels,	but	
does	not	prevent	the	fall	in	lymphocyte	 proliferation	 and	lymphocyte-	 activated	 killer	cell	
activity	(Castell	 et al.	1996,	Gleeson	and	Bishop	2000).
Glycerol
Glycerol	is	a	component	 of	the	triglyceride	 molecule	 and	an	important	 constituent	 of	
the	cell	membrane.	 This	three-	carbon	molecule	 can	be	a	substrate	 for	gluconeogenesis	

270		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
and,	as	such,	could	provide	a	fuel	during	exercise.	 We	ingest	a	fairly	large	amount	 of	
glycerol	 as	part	of	triglycerides	 or	dietary	fats	on	a	daily	basis.	Glycerol	 is	also	released	
into	the	bloodstream	 from	lipolysis	 that	breaks	down	triglycerides	 into	glycerol	 and	
three	free	fatty	acids.	Thus,	during	exercise,	 when	lipolysis	is	stimulated,	 plasma	glycerol	
concentrations	 will	increase.	 Glycerol	 has	been	touted	as	a	possible	ergogenic	 aid	for	two	
reasons.	 First,	it	is	a	substrate	 for	gluconeogenesis	 and	may	thus	become	 a	necessary	
resource	 for	glucose	production	 during	prolonged	 exercise.	 Second,	supplemented	 glyc-
erol	is	distributed	 evenly	throughout	 body	fluid	and	may	provide	an	osmotic	influence	
that	could	help	an	athlete	hyperhydrate	prior	to	competition	in	a	warmer	environment.
	 The	studies	that	investigated	 the	efficacy	of	glycerol	as	a	fuel	have	not	been	positive.	
In	well-	controlled	 research,	 glycerol	 feedings	 did	not	prevent	either	hypoglycemia	 or	
muscle	glycogen	 depletion.	 In	addition,	 the	contribution	 of	glycerol	 to	overall	energy	
expenditure	 was	found	to	be	relatively	 small.	Glycerol	 cannot	be	oxidized	 directly	in	very	
large	amounts	 in	the	muscle.	Therefore,	 glycerol	must	be	converted	 into	a	glucose	mol-
ecule	in	gluconeogenesis	 before	being	used	as	a	fuel.	Unfortunately,	 the	rate	at	which	
the	human	liver	converts	 glycerol	into	glucose	is	not	sufficiently	 rapid	to	be	an	effective	
energy	source	during	prolonged	strenuous	exercise.
	 Glycerol	 as	a	hyperhydrating	 agent	has	received	 a	great	deal	of	attention.	 When	con-
sumed	with	one	to	two	liters	of	water,	glycerol	facilitates	 water	absorption	 from	the	intes-
tine	and	causes	extracellular	 fluid	retention,	 mainly	in	the	plasma	fluid	compartment.	
This	action	may	occur	because	glycerol	moves	through	 various	tissues	at	a	relatively	 slow	
rate;	this	then	creates	an	osmotic	effect	that	draws	fluid	into	extracellular	 space	includ-
ing	plasma.	The	hyperhydration	 effect	of	glycerol	supplementation	 reduces	overall	heat	
stress	during	exercise	 as	reflected	 by	increased	 sweating	 rates.	This	lowers	heart	rate	and	
body	temperature	 during	exercise	 and	enhances	 endurance	 performance	 under	heat	
stress	(Lyons	 et al.	1990).	Several	studies	have	found	no	effect	of	glycerol	on	thermoreg -
ulation	(Inder	 et al.	1998,	Latzka	 et al.	1997,	1998).	However,	these	studies	used	a	volume	
of	water	(i.e.,	500	ml)	that	may	have	been	too	small.	It	is	recommended	 that	the	inges-
tion	of	1	g/kg	body	weight	of	glycerol	with	one	to	two	liters	of	water	would	be	effective	
in	protecting	 against	heat	stress.	Glycerol	 supplementation	 may	have	a	positive	effect	on	
hyperhydration.	 However,	 users	should	be	aware	that	glycerol	has	significant	 side-	effects,	
including	nausea,	dizziness,	headache,	bloating,	and	cramping	(Wagner	1999).
Hydroxy citric acid (HCA)
Hydroxy citric acid 	(HCA)	is	a	derivative	 of	citric	acid	found	in	a	variety	of	tropical	
plants,	including	 garcinia	 cambogia	 and	hibiscus	 subdariffa.	 HCA	is	a	competitive	 inhib-
itor	of	ATP	citrate	lyase,	which	converts	 citrate	into	oxaloacetate	 and	acetyl-	CoA.	The	
reverse	of	this	conversion	 is	a	step	in	the	Krebs	cycle	that	promotes	 fat	oxidation.	 HCA	is	
usually	marketed	 as	a	weight	loss	supplement	 either	alone	or	in	combination	 with	other	
supplements.	 Research	 has	suggested	 that	HCA	causes	weight	loss	by	competitively	
inhibiting	 the	enzyme	 ATP citrate lyase 	(Onakpoya	 et al.	2011).	This	enzyme	catalyzes	
reactions	 of	fatty	acid	biosynthesis	 from	carbohydrate.	 Therefore,	 with	the	inhibition	 of	
ATP	citrate	lyase,	a	loss	of	body	fat	is	expected.	 HCA	has	also	been	reported	 to	increase	
the	release	or	availability	 of	serotonin	 in	the	brain,	thereby	leading	to	appetite	 suppres-
sion	(Toromanyan	 et al.	2007).
	 Although	 some	studies	using	mice	suggest	that	HCA	supplementation	 may	trigger	
weight	loss	and	enhance	 endurance	 performance,	 human	studies	do	not	support	such	a	
claim.	Using	sedentary	 males,	Kriketos	 et al.	(1999)	reported	 no	significant	 effect	of	
ingesting	 HCA	at	3	g/day	for	3	days	on	fat	metabolism	 and	energy	expenditure	 either	at	
rest	or	during	moderately	 intensive	 exercise.	 When	giving	endurance-	 trained	cyclists	

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		271
HCA	in	a	higher	dose	(3.1	ml/kg	of	a	19	percent	HCA	solution)	 twice	before	and	during	
2	hours	of	cycling	at	50	percent	 VO2max,	van	Loon	 et al.	(2000)	also	observed	 no	
increase	 in	total	fat	oxidation.	 Given	that	HCA	supplementation	 does	not	modify	fat	uti-
lization	during	exercise,	 its	ergogenic	 effect	on	body	composition	 and	endurance	 per-
formance	seems	highly	unlikely.
β-hydroxy- β-methylbutyrate (HMB)
β-hydroxy- β-methylbutyrate 	(HMB)	is	a	metabolite	 of	the	essential	 amino	acid	leucine.	
Depending	 on	the	amount	of	HMB	contained	 in	foods,	the	body	synthesizes	 between	 0.2	
to	0.4	g/day,	of	which	a	very	small	percentage	 (i.e.,	~5	to	10	percent)	 is	derived	from	
dietary	leucine	catabolism.	 Foods	rich	in	HMB	are	red	meats,	asparagus,	 cauliflower,	
catfish,	and	grapefruit.	 HMB	is	available	 to	consumers	 as	an	independent	 supplement	 or	
as	an	ingredient	 of	combination	 supplement	 or	sport	food.	Because	 of	its	nitrogen-	
retaining	 effect,	many	resistance-	 trained	athletes	 supplement	 directly	 with	HMB	to	
prevent	or	reduce	muscle	damage	 and	to	suppress	 proteolysis	 or	protein	degradation	
associated	 with	intense	physical	 effort.	The	assumption	 that	HMB	supplementation	
would	have	a	positive	impact	on	muscle	metabolism	 may	be	based	on	in vitro  animal 
studies	in	which	researchers	 noted	a	marked	decrease	 in	protein	breakdown	 and	a	slight	
increase	in	protein	synthesis	in	the	muscle	tissue	of	rats	and	chicks	exposed	to	HMB.
	 The	number	 of	studies	to	test	the	efficacy	of	HMB	as	an	ergogenic	 aid	is	rapidly	
growing.	 However,	 findings	 remain	divided	at	present.	 In	those	studies	that	supported	
the	use	of	HMB	as	an	ergogenic	 aid,	a	decrease	 in	muscle	damage	and	protein	synthesis	
was	observed	 along	with	an	increase	 in	strength	 performance	 following	 consumption	 of	
HMB	supplements.	 For	example,	 in	one	such	supportive	 study,	Nissen	 et al.	(1996)	
examined	 the	ergogenic	 effect	of	HMB	using	two	separate	 randomized	 trials.	In	trial	1,	
authors	provided	 1.5	or	3	g	of	HMB	daily	to	untrained	 males	for	3	weeks,	during	which	
subjects	also	participated	 in	a	resistance	 training	 program	 3	days	a	week	for	3	weeks.	In	
trial	2,	subjects	 consumed	 either	0	or	3	g	of	HMB	per	day	and	weight	lifted	for	2	to	3	
hours,	6	days	per	week	for	7	weeks.	It	was	found	from	trial	1	that	HMB	supplementation	
depressed	 the	exercise-	 induced	 rise	in	muscle	proteolysis	 as	reflected	 in	urine	3-methyl-
histidine	 (3-MH)	and	plasma	creatine	 kinase	levels	during	the	first	2	weeks	of	training.	
3-MH	is	a	marker	of	contractile	 protein	breakdown,	 and	creatine	 kinase	is	an	indicator	
of	muscle	damage.	 In	addition,	 this	group	lifted	more	total	weight	than	the	placebo	
group	during	each	training	 week,	with	the	greatest	 effect	in	the	group	receiving	 the	
largest	dose	of	HMB	supplement.	 With	regard	to	trial	2,	it	was	found	that	subjects	who	
received	 the	HMB	supplement	 had	higher	fat-	free	mass	than	the	un-	supplemented	 sub-
jects	at	2	and	4	to	6	weeks	of	training.
	 Not	all	research	 shows	beneficial	 effects	of	HMB	supplementation	 with	resistance	
training.	 For	example,	 a	study	involving	 collegiate	 football	 players	taking	3	g	of	HMB	
daily	whose	strength	 training	 program	 was	monitored	 by	their	strength	 and	condition -
ing	coach	failed	to	demonstrate	 a	positive	 effect	on	strength	 and	body	composition	
(Ransone	 et al.	2003).	One	of	the	hypotheses	 is	that	HMB	supplementation	 would	
reduce	muscle	damage	 and	suppress	 protein	degradation	 associated	 with	intense	train-
ing.	Nevertheless,	 Kreider	 et al.	(1999)	reported	 that	28	d	of	HMB	supplementation	 at	a	
dose	of	3	or	6	g	per	day	during	resistance	 training	 did	not	reduce	catabolism	 in	experi-
enced	resistance-	 trained	males.	Paddon-	Jones	 et al.	(2001)	also	found	that	HMB	supple-
mentation	 at	a	similar	dose	did	not	reduce	the	symptoms	 associated	 with	muscle	soreness	
induced	 by	eccentric	 contraction.	 There	appears	to	be	some	evidence	 to	support	the	use	
of	HMB	as	an	ergogenic	 aid.	However,	 more	studies	are	needed,	 especially	 to	examine	
its	efficacy	among	trained	individuals.

272		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
Inosine
Inosine	is	a	nucleoside,	 a	purine	base	comparable	 to	adenine,	 which	is	one	of	the	struc-
tural	components	 of	ATP.	It	is	found	naturally	 in	brewer’s	 yeast	and	organ	meats.	
Inosine	is	not	considered	 an	essential	 nutrient.	 The	body	synthesizes	 inosine	from	pre-
cursor	amino	acids	and	glucose.	 Inosine	in	the	form	of	nucleotide	 inosine	monohydrate	
(IMP)	is	used	to	make	adenine	 monophosphate	 (AMP),	which	in	turn	can	be	phosphor -
ylated	to	the	high-	energy	phosphate	 compound	 ATP.	Strength	 and	power	athletes	sup-
plement	 with	inosine	believing	 that	it	increases	 ATP	stores,	thereby	improving	 training	
quality	and	competitive	 performance.	 Inosine	is	also	thought	 to	improve	 endurance	 per-
formance.	 It	has	also	been	theorized	 that	inosine	participates	 in	the	formation	 of	
2,3-diphosphoglycerate	 (2,3-DPG),	 a	substance	 in	red	blood	cells	that	facilitates	 the	
release	of	oxygen	from	hemoglobin	 to	the	tissue.	Among	other	claims	on	inosine	
include	its	role	in	(1)	stimulating	 insulin	release	to	enhance	 glucose	delivery,	 (2)	aug-
menting	 cardiac	contractility,	 and	(3)	acting	as	a	vasodilating	 agent.	It	is	mainly	due	to	
these	theoretical	 considerations	 that	inosine	has	been	extolled	 as	an	ergogenic	 supple-
ment	to	improve	both	anaerobic	and	aerobic	performance.
	 Objective	 data	do	not	support	the	ergogenic	 role	of	inosine	supplementation	 in	improv-
ing	either	aerobic	or	anaerobic	 performance.	 In	fact,	it	has	been	suggested	 that	this	sup-
plement	 may	have	 ergolytic	effects	under	certain	conditions.	 In	one	carefully	 conducted 	
study,	trained	men	and	women	were	administered	 6	g/day	of	inosine	or	placebo	for	2	days,	
but	no	change	was	observed	 in	3-mile	treadmill	 run	time,	VO2max,	or	perceived	 exertion	
(Williams	 et al.	1990).	After	a	30-minute	 break,	subjects	performed	 another	run	in	which	
speed	was	kept	constant	 but	the	treadmill	 grade	increased	 gradually.	 It	was	found	that	time	
to	exhaustion	 in	this	run	was	actually	longer	during	the	placebo	trial,	suggesting	 a	possible	
negative	effect	of	inosine	supplementation. 	In	another	study,	male	competitive 	cyclists	
received	 either	a	placebo	or	a	5	g/day	of	oral	inosine	supplement	 for	5	days	(Starling	 et al.	
1996).	They	then	performed	 a	Wingate	 bicycle	test,	a	30-minute	 self-	paced	bicycle	endur-
ance	test,	and	a	constant	 load,	supramaximal	 cycling	sprint	to	fatigue.	No	significant	 differ-
ences	occurred	 in	any	of	the	criterion	 variables	 in	terms	of	performance	 as	well	as	blood	
2,3-DPG	 concentrations	 between	 placebo	and	treatment	 conditions.	 Similarly,	 this	study	
also	showed	that	cyclists	fatigued	 nearly	10	percent	faster	on	the	supramaximal	 sprint	test	
when	they	consumed	 inosine	than	without	it,	again	indicating	 that	inosine	may	be	detri-
mental	to	performance.
Nitric oxide (NO)
Nitric oxide 	(NO)	is	a	powerful	 messenger	 molecule	 in	the	body.	NO	is	formed	from	
L-	arginine	 in	the	endothelial	 cells	that	line	the	blood-	vessels.	Due	to	the	relatively	 small	
size	of	NO,	it	is	able	to	diffuse	freely	across	membranes	 where	it	can	act	as	a	powerful	
vasodilator	 to	increase	 blood	flow	to	muscle.	Long-	known	pharmaceuticals	 such	as	nitro-
glycerine	 and	amyl	nitrite	were	found	to	be	precursors	 to	NO	more	than	a	century	after	
their	first	use	in	medicine.	 In	addition	 to	its	generation	 through	 oxidation	 of	L-	arginine,	
NO	can	also	be	formed	from	reducing	 nitrate	(NO3–)	and	nitrite	(NO2–).	Bodily	storage	
of	nitrate	and	nitrite	can	be	increased	 through	 diet,	particularly	 through	 the	consump -
tion	of	green	leafy	vegetables	such	as	lettuce,	spinach,	celery,	cress,	and	beetroot.
	 It	is	considered	 that	NO	can	modulate	 skeletal	muscle	function	 through	 its	role	in	
the	regulation	 of	blood	flow,	contractility,	 glucose	and	calcium	 homeostasis,	 and	mito-
chondrial	 respiration	 and	biogenesis	 (Stamler	 and	Meissner	 2001).	However,	 the	most	
prevailing	 evidence	 concerning	 NO	relates	to	its	ability	to	reduce	oxygen	cost	of	exercise	
and	improve	 exercise	 tolerance.	 By	feeding	subjects	with	sodium	nitrate	(0.1	mmol/kg)	

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		273
or	a	placebo	 for	3	days,	Larsen	 et al.	(2007)	observed	 a	reduction	 in	oxygen	uptake	
during	exercise	 and	a	committed	 improvement	 in	exercise	 efficiency	 (calculated	 as	the	
work	output	per	unit	energy	expended).	 This	finding	was	later	confirmed	 by	Bailey	 et al.	
(2009)	who	used	a	natural	nitrate-	rich	dietary	source,	beetroot	 juice,	as	the	nitrate	sup-
plement,	 which	contained	 5.6	mmol	nitrate.	An	improvement	 in	muscle	efficiency	 would	
be	expected	 to	enable	a	greater	workload	 accomplished	 for	the	same	energy	cost.	In	
theory,	this	should	translate	 into	improved	 performance	 assuming	 that	other	factors	stay	
the	same.	It	has	been	further	speculated	 that	this	more	efficient	 use	of	oxygen	may	be	
accomplished	 by	improving	 blood	flow	to	contracting	 muscle,	 the	oxidation-	
phosphorylation	 coupling	 process	in	mitochondria,	 and/or	Ca2+-related	actin–myosin	
interaction	 in	muscle	cells	(	Jones	2014)	(Figure 	11.3). 	It	must	be	noted	that	research	
regarding	 nitrate	supplementation	 is	in	its	early	stages.	Not	all	studies	have	shown	similar	
results	despite	some	promising	 findings	 that	tend	to	support	the	role	which	NO	plays	in	
enhancing	muscle	efficiency	and	oxygenation.
Phosphate
Although	 it	is	uncommon,	 some	athletes	have	tried	to	enhance	 performance	 by	ingest-
ing	gram	amounts	 of	phosphate	 shortly	before	strenuous	 training	 or	competition.	 This	
practice is called phosphate loading .	Phosphate	 and	phosphorus	 are	often	used	inter-
changeably.	 Technically,	 phosphorus	 is	an	element	 (P),	whereas	 phosphate	 is	a	molecu-
lar	anion	(PO4–3			),	part	of	phosphoric	 acid	(H3PO4).	Phosphate	 is	a	component	 of	
high-	energy	compounds,	 such	as	ATP	and	PCr,	as	well	as	2,3-DPG,	 a	molecule	 that	facil-
itates	oxygen	release	from	hemoglobin	 for	use	by	body	tissues.	Therefore,	 it	has	been	
postulated	 that	phosphate	 supplementation	 may	increase	 ATP	synthesis	 and	improve	
oxygen	extraction	in	muscle	cells	because	of	elevations	of	2,3-DPG	in	erythrocytes.
Nitric oxide (NO)
Endurance performanceLeakage of proton
across inner
mitochondrial
membrane
Exercise efficiencyBlood flow to
contracting
muscleCa2+ related
actin-myosin
interaction
Work accomplished per unit energy expended
Figure 11.3 	Possible	mechanisms	of	how	nitric	oxide	(NO)	improves	exercise	performance

274		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
	 Despite	 these	appealing	 rationales,	 the	ergogenic	 benefits	 with	phosphate	 loading	
have	not	been	consistently	 demonstrated.	 Some	studies	show	improvement	 in	VO2max,	
anaerobic	 thresholds,	 and	endurance	 performance	 and/or	decreased	 lactate	concentra -
tion	at	submaximal	 workload	 (Cade	 et al.	1984,	Kreider	 et al.	1990,	1992,	Stewart	 et al.	
1990),	while	others	failed	to	do	so	(Bredle	 et al.	1988,	Duffy	and	Conlee	1986,	Galloway	
et al.	1996,	Mannix	 et al.	1990).	The	inconsistencies	 in	these	findings	 may	be	related	to	
the	differences	 in	the	experimental	 protocol,	 i.e.,	dosage	and	duration	 of	supplementa -
tion,	type	of	subjects,	 exercise	 mode	and	intensity,	 and	pre-	test	diets.	In	addition,	 most	
studies	used	very	small	numbers	 of	subjects,	 which	can	make	relatively	 minor	changes	 in	
exercise	performance	difficult	to	detect.
	 At	present,	 little	reliable	scientific	 evidence	 exists	to	recommend	 exogenous	 phos-
phate	as	an	ergogenic	 aid.	On	the	negative	 side,	chronic	phosphate	 loading	can	alter	
calcium-	to-phosphate	 ratio,	thereby	affecting	 the	rigidity	of	bones.	In	addition,	 excess	
plasma	phosphate	 can	stimulate	 the	secretion	 of	parathyroid	 hormone.	 Excessive	 pro-
duction	 of	this	hormone	 increases	 the	release	of	calcium	 from	bones,	causing	loss	of	
bone	mass.
Synephrine
Synephrine ,	or,	more	specifically,	 p-	synephrine,	 is	an	extract	from	the	bitter	or	sour	
orange.	 This	substance	 is	typically	 included	 in	weight	loss	products	 owing	to	its	pur-
ported	thermogenic	 effect.	Many	ephedra-	 free	dietary	supplements	 marketed	 for	weight	
loss	contain	 synephrine,	 along	with	other	stimulants	 such	as	caffeine.	 Synephrine	 is	
structurally	 similar	to	ephedrine,	 and	has	been	marked	as	a	safe	alternative	 to	ephedra.	
Synephrine	 is	a	dietary	supplement	 in	the	United	States,	but	is	classified	 as	a	drug	in	
Europe.	 It	has	been	previously	 found	that	p-	synephrine	 induces	an	increase	 in	basal	met-
abolic	rate	(Gougeon	 et al.	2005)	and	lipolysis	by	activation	 of	the	β3 adrenergic receptor 
(Stohs	 et al.	2011),	which	ultimately	 enhance	 body	weight	loss	in	weight	management	
programs	(Stohs	 et al.	2012).
	 P-	synephrine	 is	also	consumed	 in	the	sports	setting	as	an	ergogenic	 supplement,	
although	 the	existing	evidence	 regarding	 its	effectiveness	 in	increasing	 physical	perform-
ance	is	scarce	and	inclusive.	 No	effects	on	performance	 in	a	squat	jump,	a	counter-	
movement	 jump,	a	15-s	repeated	 jump	test	as	well	as	60-m	and	100-m	simulated	 sprints	
were	reported	 following	 an	ingestion	 of	p-	synephrine	 in	3	mg/kg	(Gutiérrez-Hellín	 et al.	
2016).	However,	 when	subjects	were	fed	100	mg	of	p-	synephrine	 plus	100	mg	of	caffeine,	
increases	 in	mean	power	and	velocity	of	squat	performance	 were	noted	(Ratamess	 et al.	
2016).	In	this	latter	study,	it	is	difficult	 to	associate	 performance	 enhancement	 with	
p-	synephrine	because	caffeine	by	itself	is	a	well-	 recognized	ergogenic	aid.
Whey and casein
Both	 whey and casein	are	derived	 from	milk	proteins	 as	part	of	the	cheese-	making	
process.	 They	are	among	the	most	popular	 protein	 supplements	 sold	in	powder	
format.	Whey	protein	is	acid	soluble	and	is	thus	digested	 quickly	and	results	in	a	pro-
nounced	 aminoacidemia.	 Whey	is	a	faster-	acting	protein.	 It	reaches	the	bloodstream 	
more	quickly	and	elevates	 blood	amino	acid	levels	much	higher	than	casein.	It	also	
has	more	leucine,	 which	benefits	 muscle	growth.	Casein	is	slower	to	reach	the	blood-
stream,	but	stays	in	the	bloodstream	 much	longer	than	whey.	Research	 has	demon-
strated	that	whey	supplementation	 induces	a	transient	 rise	in	protein	synthesis	 at	rest.	
Conversely, 	casein	has	a	modest	effect	on	protein	synthesis, 	but	instead	inhibits	
protein	breakdown.

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		275
	 In	a	study	that	compared	 whey,	casein,	and	soy	proteins,	 Tang	 et al.	(2009)	demon-
strated	that	the	consumption	 of	whey	hydrolysate	 (a	pre-	digested	 form)	stimulated	 skele-
tal	muscle	synthesis	 to	a	greater	extent	than	either	casein	or	soy,	both	at	rest	and	after	
resistance	 exercise.	Despite	 its	more	profound	effect	 on	protein	synthesis,	the	 benefits	of	
whey	protein	after	exercise	 are	generally	 short-	lived.	To	examine	 the	effect	of	ingestion	
rate	of	protein	on	postprandial	 protein	synthesis,	 Dangin	 et al.	(2001)	found	that	30	
grams	of	whey	protein	provided	 in	a	sequence	 of	13	small	meals	given	every	20	minutes	
was	superior	 for	muscle	anabolism	 compared	 to	a	single	meal	of	whey	or	casein.	Based	
on	this	study,	it	appears	that	a	post-	workout	 whey	protein	shake	should	be	followed	 by	a	
protein-	rich	meal	consumed	 shortly	after	the	initial	whey	supplementation.	 Since	whey	
rapidly	increases	 protein	synthesis	 and	casein	blocks	protein	breakdown,	 a	combination	
of	both	is	ideal.	To	have	a	sustained	 benefit	on	protein	balance,	 one	may	consume	 a	
combination	 of	whey	and	casein	(~20	grams)	one	hour	before	and	immediately	 after	
exercise.	 Casein	is	considered	 an	ideal	protein	to	consume	 before	bed	due	to	its	long-	
lasting	effect	on	muscle	anabolism.
Summary
•	 Ergogenic 	is	defined	as	increasing 	work	or	the	potential 	to	do	work.	Ergogenic 	aids	
consist	of	substances	 or	procedures	 that	improve	 physical	work	capacity,	 physiological 	
function,	 or	athletic	performance.	 An	ergogenic	 aid	does	not	need	to	be	nutritional	 or	
pharmacological;	it	can	also	be	mechanical,	psychological,	or	physiological.
•	 In	contrast	to	prescription	 drugs	which	are	carefully	 regulated,	 nutrition	 supplements 	
and	ergogenic	 aids	receive	very	little	government	 oversight,	 and	manufacturers	 and	
retailers	have	enormous	freedom	in	making	claims	to	promote	the	product.
•	 All	ergogenic	 aids	need	to	be	critically	 evaluated.	 Often,	a	“placebo	 effect,”	not	the	
aid	per	se,	improves	 performance	 owing	to	psychological	 factors.	Athletes	 and	
others	must	carefully	 examine	 claims	made	by	the	dietary	supplements	 industry,	
including	 the	scientific	 evidence	 that	supports	 the	claims.	A	solid	understanding	 of	
research	 development	 and	experimental	 procedure	 is	important	 in	judging	 the	
validity	of	an	ergogenic	aid.
•	 Sports	 bars	provide	energy	as	well	as	other	essential	 nutrients.	 Their	composition	
may	vary	based	on	the	intended	 consumer	 and	purpose	 of	the	sports	food.	Some	
sports	bars	are	marketed	 as	a	quick	and	high-	energy	source,	so	that	they	can	be	used	
before	or	after	intense	training	 or	sports	competitions.	 Others	are	designed	 to	be	
meal	replacements	that	contain	a	high	amount	of	protein	and/or	fiber.
•	 Carbohydrate	 is	usually	the	energy	foundation	 of	many	sports	bars	that	are	con-
sumed	before	and	after	exercise.	 Many	sports	bars	also	contain	fibers	and	protein,	
as	well	as	vitamins	 and	minerals	 directly	involved	 in	energy	metabolism,	 such	as	B	
vitamins,	magnesium,	zinc,	and	iron.
•	 Sports	 drinks	may	be	broken	down	into	two	categories:	 (1)	fluid	and	electrolyte	
replacement	 drinks	in	which	the	carbohydrate	 content	 is	relatively	 low;	and	(2)	
drinks	that	contain	a	higher	carbohydrate	 formulation.	 The	former	is	more	appro-
priate	for	use	during	exercise,	 whereas	 the	latter	is	suited	better	for	consumption	
after	training	or	in	preparation	for	an	upcoming	event.
•	 In	sports	drinks,	carbohydrate	 is	typically	 provided	 as	glucose,	 sucrose,	 fructose,	
corn	syrup,	maltodextrins,	 and	glucose	polymers.	 They	also	contain	plenty	of	elec-
trolytes,	 including	 sodium,	 potassium,	 and	chloride.	 The	carbohydrates	 usually	
make	up	about	4	to	8	percent	 of	a	fluid/electrolyte	 replacement	 drink	and	>10	
percent	 of	a	recovery/loading	 beverage.	 A	more	diluted	concentration	 will	help	
facilitate	gastric	emptying,	thereby	enhancing	fluid/electrolyte	replacement.

276		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
•	 Intense	 resistance	 training	may	lead	to	muscle	fatigue	and	soreness	 as	well	as	muscle	
structural	 damage.	 As	such,	supplementing	 BCAA,	whey,	and/or	casein	will	provide	
added	amino	acids	needed	for	muscle	recovery	 and	adaptation.	 These	protein-	based	
supplements	 have	their	unique	features	 so	that	their	combined	 use	may	help	reach	
the	intended	outcomes	more	effectively.
•	 Despite	 such	a	large	quantity	 of	ergogenic	 aids,	the	working	 mechanism	 of	each	may	
be	explained	 by	one	or	more	of	the	following:	 (1)	they	act	as	a	central	or	peripheral	
nervous	 system	stimulant;	 (2)	they	increase	 storage	or	availability	 of	a	limiting	 sub-
strate;	(3)	they	act	as	a	supplemental	 fuel	source;	(4)	they	reduce	performance-	
inhibiting	 metabolic	 by-	products;	 (5)	they	facilitate	 recovery;	 and	(6)	they	enhance	
tissue	synthesis.
•	 Arginine,	 ornithine,	 lysine,	bicarbonate,	 boron,	caffeine,	 hydroxy	 citric	acid,	carni-
tine,	chromium,	 co-	enzyme	Q	10,	creatine,	 DHEA	and	androstenedione,	 ephedrine,	
glutamine,	 glycerol,	 HMB,	inosine,	 nitrate	oxide,	phosphate,	 and	P-	synephrine	 are	
the	popular	ergogenic	 choices.	However,	 most	remain	inconclusive	 in	terms	of	their	
efficacy	and/or	potential	 risks.	The	existence	 of	such	inconsistencies	 may	in	part	be	
related	to	the	differences	 in	the	experimental	 protocol,	 i.e.,	dosage	and	duration	 of	
supplementation,	 number	 and	type	of	subjects,	 exercise	 mode	and	intensity,	 testing	
and	measurement,	and	control	of	diet	and	physical	activity.
Case study: making a sound decision on an ergogenic aid
Andy	is	a	running	 back	on	the	college	football	team.	He	also	competes	 for	the	wrest-
ling	team.	Andy	is	always	very	conscious	 about	his	diet.	He	eats	a	balanced	 diet	and	
takes	multivitamins	 and	mineral	supplements	 each	day.	He	would	like	to	improve	 his	
strength	 and	power	as	well	as	his	body	composition,	 and	decides	to	experiment	 with	
some	ergogenic	 aids.	Based	on	the	articles	and	advertisements	 he	has	read	in	sports	
magazines,	 he	selects	creatine	 for	improving	 his	strength	 and	power	and	HMB	
(β-Hydroxy-	 β-methylbutyrate)	 to	improve	 his	muscle	mass	and	body	composition.	 But	
before	he	begins	taking	these	aids	he	wants	to	explore	their	risks	and	benefits	as	well	as	
their	working	mechanism.
Questions
•	 What	 is	the	exact	working	 mechanism	 by	which	creatine	 improves	 performance?	
What	about	HMB?
•	 Do	these	supplements	live	up	to	their	promoter’s	promises?
•	 Where	 should	Andy	look	if	he	needs	more	authentic	 information	 on	these	
products?
•	 Would	you	recommend	that	Andy	takes	these	supplements?	Why?
Review questions
	1	 What	 is	a	double-	blinded	 experiment?	 What	are	advantages	 associated	 with	this	
research	design?
	2	 Why	is	it	necessary	to	use	a	placebo	in	research	studies	on	ergogenic	aids?
	3	 Provide	 one	example	 of	an	ergogenic	 aid	that	fits	each	of	the	following	 claims:	(1)	it	
acts	as	a	central	or	peripheral	 nervous	 system	stimulant;	 (2)	it	increases	 storage	or	
availability	 of	a	limiting	 substrate;	 (3)	it	acts	as	a	supplemental	 fuel	source;	(4)	it	
reduces	performance-	 inhibiting	 metabolic	 by-	products;	 (5)	it	facilitates	 recovery;	 and	
(6)	it	enhances	tissue	synthesis.

Ergogenic aids and supplements 		277
	4	 Explain	 how	supplementing	 BCAAs	may	reduce	serotonin	 production,	 thereby	delay-
ing	mental	fatigue.
	5	 What	is	the	ergogenic	 property	 of	bicarbonate	 loading?	 To	what	types	of	sports	will	
this	product	be	most	applicable?	Why?
	6	 Boron,	 chromium,	 and	creatine	 are	considered	 to	produce	 a	gain	in	muscle	mass.	
How	does	each	of	them	work	physiologically	in	achieving	this	ergogenic	effect?
	7	 List	all	ergogenic	 effects	of	creatine	 supplementation.	 What	are	the	potential	 risks	
associated	 with	this	ergogenic	 aid?	What	types	of	athletes	will	benefit	from	supple-
menting	creatine?
	8	 Explain	how	caffeine	works	in	improving	performance.
	9	 What	are	the	claims	associated	with	DHEA	and	androstenedione?
10	 Ephedrine	 has	been	used	to	increase	 fat	utilization.	 How	does	this	effect	come	
about?	Why	is	caffeine	often	used	in	conjunction	with	ephedrine?
11	 Explain	why	glycerol	is	used	for	enhancing	hydration.
12	 Discuss	 β-Hydroxy-	 β-methylbutyrate	 (HMB)	in	term	of	its	origin	and	food	sources.	
Why	is	this	compound	considered	ergogenic?
13	 How	is	phosphate	related	to	enhancing	performance?
Suggested reading
 1	 American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	 (1987)	American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	
position	 stand	on	the	use	of	anabolic-	 androgenic	 steroids	 in	sports.	 Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise ,	19:	534–539.
 This article allows readers to learn the position of the American College of Sports Medicine on 
the use of anabolic- androgenic steroids in sports.
	2	 American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	 (1987)	American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	
position	 stand	on	blood	doping	as	an	ergogenic	 aid.	Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise,	19:	540–543.
 This article allows readers to learn the position of the American College of Sports Medicine on 
the use of blood doping as an ergogenic aid for athletic competitions.
	3	 Armstrong	 LE	(2002)	Caffeine,	 body	fluid–electrolyte	 balance,	 and	exercise	 perform-
ance.	 International Journal of Sport Nutrition and Exercise Metabolism ,	12:	189–206.
 In this review, the author critiques several controlled investigations regarding the effects of caf -
feine on dehydration and athletic performance. It also analyzes the potential consequences of 
consuming caffeinated beverages on fluid–electrolyte balance and exercise capacity in both 
athletes and recreational enthusiasts.
	4	 Graham	 TE	(2001)	Caffeine,	 coffee	and	ephedrine:	 impact	on	exercise	 performance	
and	metabolism.	 Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology ,	26(Suppl):	S103–S119.
 This paper addresses areas where there is controversy regarding caffeine as an ergogenic aid and 
also identifies topics that have not been adequately addressed, such as using caffeine in con -
junction with ephedrine.
Glossary
β-hydroxy- β-methylbutyrate 	a	metabolite	 of	the	essential	 amino	acid	leucine	and	used	
to	prevent	or	reduce	muscle	damage	and	to	suppress	 protein	degradation	 associated	
with	intense	physical	effort.
Androstenedione 	a	steroid	hormone	 that	functions	 as	a	precursor	 between	 DHEA	and	
testosterone.
ATP citrate lyase 	an	enzyme	 that	catalyzes	 reactions	 of	fatty	acid	biosynthesis	 from	
carbohydrate.

278		 Ergogenic aids and supplements
Bicarbonate 	a	salt	of	carbonic	 acid	containing	 the	ion	HCO3–2	that	helps	delay	the	
onset	of	acidosis	and	thus	fatigue.
Boron	an	essential	 trace	mineral	 involved	 in	bone	mineral	 metabolism,	 steroid	
hormone	metabolism,	and	membrane	functions.
Branched- chain amino acids 	amino	acids	that	have	side	chains	with	a	branch	(a	carbon	
atom	bound	to	more	than	two	other	carbon	atoms),	such	as	leucine,	isoleucine,	 and	
valine.
Caffeine 	a	naturally	 occurring	 substance	 found	in	a	variety	of	beverages	 and	foods,	
including	coffee,	tea,	and	chocolate.
Casein	a	part	of	milk	proteins	and	derived	from	cheese	making.
Chromium 	a	trace	mineral	 that	potentiates	 insulin	action	and	insulin	stimulates	 the	
glucose	and	amino	acid	uptake	by	muscle	cells.
Coenzyme Q 10	referred	 to	as	ubiquinone	 that	functions	 as	an	integral	component	 of	
the	mitochondrion’s	electron	transport	system.
Creatine	a	nitrogen-	 containing	 molecule	 used	by	the	body	to	form	high-	energy	com-
pound	phosphocreatine	(PCr).
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) 	a	steroid	hormone	 that	functions	 as	a	precursor	 to	
antrostenedione	and	testosterone.
Doping	the	use	of	drugs	to	enhance	performance	in	sports.
Ephedrine 	a	sympathomimetic	 amine	commonly	 used	as	a	stimulant,	 appetite	 suppres-
sant,	concentration	aid,	and	decongestant.
Ergogenic 	increasing	work	or	potential	to	do	work.
Ergolytic 	having	a	negative	effect	on	muscle	capacity.
Glutamine 	a	nonessential	 amino	acid	that	assists	in	nitrogen	 transport	 between	 tissues,	
acid–base	regulation,	and	production	of	antioxidant	glutathione.
Glycerol	a	component	 of	the	triglyceride	 molecule	 and	used	for	gluconeogenesis	 and	
water	retention.
Hydroxy citric acid 	a	derivative	 of	citric	acid	found	in	a	variety	of	tropical	plants	and	
marked	as	a	weight	loss	supplement.
Inosine	a	purine	ribonucleoside	and	used	for	ATP	synthesis.
L- carnitine 	a	substance	 that	functions	 as	a	carrier	protein	to	transport	 long-	chain	fatty	
acids	into	the	mitochondrial	matrix.
Nitric oxide 	a	compound	 formed	from	L-	arginine	 in	the	endothelial	 cells	that	line	the	
blood-	vessels	and	acting	as	a	vasodilator	to	increase	blood	flow	to	muscles.
Phosphate loading 	ingesting	 phosphate	 and	phosphorus	 prior	to	strenuous	 exercise	
for	the	purpose	of	enhancing	ATP	synthesis	and	oxygen	delivery	to	muscle	cells.
Sports supplements 	various	nutritional	and	pharmacological	ergogenic	aids.
Synephrine 	an	extract	from	the	bitter	or	sour	orange	that	functions	as	a	stimulant.
Whey	a	part	of	milk	proteins	and	derived	from	cheese	making.

12 Nutrition and metabolism in 
special cases
Contents
Key terms 280
Gender differences in substrate metabolism 280
•	 Gender	differences	in	energy	expenditure	 281
•	 Substrate	utilization	of	males	and	females	 281
•	 Underlying	mechanism:	the	role	of	sex	hormones	 282
•	 Muscle	glycogen	synthesis	 282
•	 Protein	metabolism	 284
•	 Nutritional	considerations	 284
Pregnancy	 285
•	 Substrate	metabolism	during	pregnancy	 286
•	 Exercise	during	pregnancy	 287
•	 Nutritional	considerations	 287
The	elderly	 288
•	 Changes	in	body	composition	 289
•	 Reduced	gastrointestinal	functions	 289
•	 Reduced	aerobic	capacity	and	energy	expenditure	 290
•	 Changes	in	enzymes	of	bioenergetic	pathways	 290
•	 Alterations	in	carbohydrate	and	fat	metabolism	 291
•	 Nutritional	considerations	 292
Children	and	adolescents	 293
•	 Aerobic	and	anaerobic	capacity	 294
•	 Oxygen	deficit	and	respiratory	exchange	ratio	 295
•	 Metabolic	efficiency	 295
•	 Carbohydrate	storage	and	utilization	 296
•	 Carbohydrate	ingestion	during	exercise	 296
•	 Nutritional	considerations	 296
Insulin	resistance	 297
•	 Testing	for	insulin	resistance	 297
•	 Insulin	resistance	and	body	fat	distribution	 299
•	 Effect	of	insulin	resistance	on	glucose	and	fat	utilization	 300
•	 Role	of	exercise	in	improving	insulin	sensitivity	 301
•	 Nutrition	considerations	 303
Diabetes	mellitus	 304
•	 Insulin-	 dependent	and	non-	 insulin-dependent	diabetes	mellitus	 304

280  Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
•	 Cellular	defects	in	glucose	metabolism	 304
•	 Metabolism	during	exercise	 305
•	 Blood	glucose	 305
•	 Muscle	glycogen	 306
•	 Fatty	acids	and	triglycerides	 306
•	 Nutritional	considerations	 307
Summary	 308
Case	study	 310
Review	questions	 310
Suggested	reading	 311
Glossary	 311
Key terms
•	 Adolescence	 •	 Central	obesity
•	 Childhood	 •	 Corpus	luteum
•	 Estrogen	 •	 Euglycemic
•	 Exogenous	 •	 Follicular
•	 Gestational	diabetes	 •	 Glucose	tolerance
•	 Glucose	transporters	 •	 Hemoglobin
•	 Hyperinsulinemic	glucose	clamp	 •	 Hyperlipidemia
•	 Indirect	calorimetry	 •	 Infancy
•	 Insulin	resistance	 •	 Insulin	responsiveness
•	 Insulin	sensitivity	 •	 Leptin
•	 Lipoprotein	lipase	 •	 Luteal
•	 Metabolic	inflexibility	 •	 Oxygen	deficit
•	 Oxygen	kinetics	 •	 Placenta
•	 Placental	lactogen	 •	 Post-	absorptive	state
•	 Progesterone	 •	 Prolactin
•	 Puberty	 •	 Respiratory	exchange	ratio
•	 Subcutaneous	 •	 Testosterone
•	 Thermogenesis	 •	 Vastus	lateralis
•	 Visceral
Gender differences in substrate metabolism
In	the	not-	so-distant	 past,	our	society	was	influenced	 by	the	notion	that	boys	were	meant	
to	be	active	and	athletic,	 whereas	 girls	were	weaker	and	thus	less	well	suited	to	physical	
activity.	In	fact,	women	were	prohibited	 from	running	 any	race	longer	than	800	m	until	
the	1960s	(Wilmore	 and	Costill	2004).	This	notion	is	no	longer	true,	and	girls	and	
women	are	given	equal	access	to	most	athletic	 activities.	Due	to	increased	involvement	in	
physical	 activity	and	training,	 there	has	been	a	tremendous	 decrease	 in	the	gender	gap	
in	terms	of	athletic	performance.	 In	events	other	than	those	requiring	 muscular	 strength	
and	power,	performance	 differences	 between	 genders	are	no	more	than	15	percent.	 The	
current	knowledge	 of	metabolic	 responses	 to	exercise	 and	training	 is	based	largely	on	
responses	 of	young	adult	males.	This	is	because	 much	of	the	previous	 research	 in	the	
area	of	exercise	 metabolism	 has	been	conducted	 using	primarily	 male	subjects.	 Due	to	
the	ever-	increasing	 involvement	 of	women	in	sports	and	leisure	and	occupational	

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		281
physical	 activities,	 there	has	been	a	steady	increase	 in	research	 that	aims	to	compare	
exercise-	 induced	 metabolic	 responses	 and	adaptations	 between	 genders.	 Understanding	
such	gender	differences	 will	help	establish	 more	appropriate	 gender-	specific	dietary	and	
exercise	guidelines.
Gender differences in energy expenditure
On	average,	 women’s	 total	energy	expenditure,	 which	is	the	number	 of	calories	burned	
for	metabolic	 needs,	including	 breathing,	 blood	circulation,	 digestion,	 and	physical	
activity,	is	around	5	to	10	percent	lower	than	men’s.	This	reduced	 energy	expenditure	
may	be	partly	explained	 by	body	composition.	 Body	composition	 (i.e.,	the	amount	 of	
muscle,	 bone,	and	fat	that	make	up	the	body)	is	quite	different	 between	 men	and	
women.	Men,	in	general,	 have	more	muscle	mass,	heavier	bones,	and	less	body	fat	than	
women.	 For	example,	 a	typical	adult	man	who	weighs	154	pounds	has	69	pounds	of	
muscle,	23	pounds	of	bone,	and	23	pounds	of	fat.	A	typical	adult	woman	of	the	same	age	
who	weighs	125	pounds	has	45	pounds	of	muscle,	15	pounds	of	bone,	and	34	pounds	of	
fat.	The	recommended	 percentage	 of	body	fat	for	a	woman	is	between	 20	to	30	percent	
which	is	thought	 to	be	higher	for	childbearing,	 while	the	recommended	 range	for	a	man	
is	between	 10	and	20	percent.	 Because	 of	these	differences	 in	muscle	mass,	men	burn	
more	calories	than	women	at	rest.
	 Physical	 activity	differences	 appear	to	also	play	a	role.	Women,	 in	general,	 tend	to	be	
less	active	than	men.	In	a	study	that	measured	 metabolism	 in	both	middle-	aged	men	and	
women,	Carpenter	 et al.	(1998)	found	that	total	daily	energy	expenditure	 was	16	percent	
lower	in	women	compared	 to	men	due	to	a	6	percent	lower	resting	metabolic	 rate	and	a	
37	percent	 lower	physical	 activity	energy	expenditure.	 This	finding	suggests	 that	the	
main	reason	why	women’s	 energy	expenditure	 was	lower	was	due	to	significantly	 fewer	
calories	 burned	from	physical	 activity.	Of	particular	 interest	is	that	authors	 revealed	
these	gender	differences	 in	energy	expenditure	 after	taking	into	account	the	differences	
in	body	composition.
Substrate utilization of males and females
Although	 there	is	some	disagreement,	 perhaps	 the	most	repeatedly	 evidenced	 meta-
bolic	difference 	between	genders	is	that,	compared 	to	men,	women	are	able	to	derive	
proportionally	 more	of	the	total	energy	expended	 from	fat	oxidation	 during	aerobic	
exercise.	 This	conclusion	 was	drawn	primarily	 from	studies	using	 indirect calorimetry ,	
a	method	 that	calculates	 heat	which	living	organisms	 produce	 from	their	consump -
tion	of	oxygen.	 In	these	studies,	a	lower	 respiratory exchange ratio 	(RER)	during	sub-
maximal	 endurance	 exercise	 was	found	in	females	as	compared	 to	males.	As	discussed 	
in	Chapter 	11, 	RER	is	a	qualitative	 indicator	 of	which	fuel	(carbohydrate	 or	fat)	is	
being	metabolized	 to	supply	the	body	with	energy,	and	the	lower	the	RER,	the	greater	
the	percentage	 of	energy	derived	 from	fat.	In	these	studies,	 an	effort	was	made	to	
match	male	and	female	subjects	 for	their	VO2max	or	training	 status.	This	approach 	
was	used	to	preclude	 the	potential	 confounding	 effect	of	fitness	on	the	gender-	related	
difference	 in	exercise	 metabolism.	 In	these	studies,	oxygen	uptake	was	also	normal-
ized	relative	to	lean	body	mass	in	order	to	minimize	 the	gender	differences	 in	energy	
metabolism	that	is	attributable	to	percentage	of	fat.
	 The	evidence	 with	indirect	calorimetry	 that	women	oxidize	fewer	carbohydrates	 and	
more	fat	during	exercise	 is	consistent	 with	investigations	 that	have	involved	 more	soph-
isticated	 laboratory	 techniques,	 i.e.,	muscle	biopsy	and	isotopic	 tracer	methods.	 For	
example,	 Tarnopolsky	 et al.	(1990)	found	that	 vastus lateralis 	glycogen	 concentration	

282  Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
was	less	depleted 	in	women	following 	exercise. 	In	this	study,	authors	had	six	males	
and	six	equally	trained	females	run	for	more	than	90	minutes	 at	65	percent	 VO2max	
following	 three	days	on	a	controlled	 diet.	Muscle	glycogen	 utilization	 was	calculated	
from	pre-	and	post-	exercise	 needle	biopsies	 of	vastus	lateralis.	 Using	a	different	 analytic	
approach,	 Carter	 et al.	(2001b)	 also	observed	 a	lower	utilization	 of	muscle	glycogen	 in	
women	than	in	men	during	endurance	 exercise	 both	before	and	after	endurance 	
training. 	In	these	studies,	lipid	oxidation 	as	determined 	by	indirect	calorimetry 	was	
found	to	be	uniformly	 higher	in	women	than	in	men	during	exercise	 at	the	same	rel-
ative	intensity.
Underlying mechanism: the role of sex hormones
According 	to	the	currently 	available	research, 	gender	differences 	in	exercise	metabolism	
seem	to	be	mediated	 primarily	 by	sex	hormones	 such	as	estrogen and progesterone ,	which	
present	in	small	quantities	 in	men	as	well.	Progesterone,	 released	 from	the	corpus luteum ,	
placenta,	and	adrenal	glands,	is	considered	 a	precursor	 to	the	male	and	female	sex	hor-
mones,	testosterone	 and	estrogen,	 respectively.	 Estrogen	 is	a	collective	 term	for	a	group	of	
18-carbon	 steroid	hormones.	 The	most	biologically	 active	estrogen	 is	17ß-estradiol	 (E2),	
and	there	are	other	less	potent	estrogens	 such	as	estrone	(E1)	and	estriol	(E3).	Estrogens	
are	secreted	mainly	by	the	ovaries	and,	to	a	lesser	extent,	by	the	adrenal	glands.	Estrogens	
are	also	synthesized	 from	androgens	 such	as	testosterone 	in	blood	or	other	organs	such	as	
adipose	and	muscle	tissues.
Animal studies of estrogen and progesterone
A	number	 of	animal	studies	have	been	undertaken	 to	examine	 the	impact	of	estrogen	
upon	the	utilization	 of	glycogen.	 In	these	studies,	the	experimental	 approach	 is	to	alter	
the	hormonal	 environment	 by	injecting	 estrogen	 and	then	to	evaluate	 the	metabolic	
consequences.	 For	example,	 Kendrick	 et al.	(1987),	who	administered	 E2 to rats in doses 
sufficient	 to	achieve	 blood	levels	of	estrogen	 in	the	physiological	 range,	showed	
decreased	 utilization	 of	glycogen	 stored	in	skeletal	muscle	as	well	as	in	the	heart	and	
liver.	The	role	of	progesterone	 in	exercise	 metabolism	 is	less	clear.	It	has	been	reported	
that	this	hormone	 increases	 liver	glycogen	 content	and	suppresses	 hepatic	gluconeogen -
esis,	and	these	effects	can	be	enhanced	 by	concurrent	 administration	 of	E2.	In	this	
context,	 it	appears	that	the	two	female	hormones	 may	work	additively	 or	synergistically	
in	reducing	carbohydrate	utilization	during	exercise.
	 High	 levels	of	E2	have	also	been	found	to	increase	 the	availability	 of	free	fatty	acids	
(FFA)	during	exercise	 in	rats.	For	example,	 Ellis	 et al.	(1994)	observed	 that	during	exer-
cise	E2	increased	 lipolysis	in	adipose	tissue	and	enhanced	 the	distribution	 of	FFA	to	the	
muscles.	 This	increased	 availability	 of	FFA	may	be	further	attributed	 to	the	alterations	 in	
activity	of	 lipoprotein lipase 	(LPL)	that	regulates	fat	metabolism.	In	 this	same	study,	 Ellis	
et al.	demonstrated	 a	decreased	 activity	of	adipocyte	 LPL,	which	promotes	 fat	synthesis,	
and	an	increased	 activity	of	muscle	LPL,	which	promotes	 fat	utilization.	 Of	particular	
interest	is	that	estrogen	 and	progesterone	 would	play	an	opposing	 role	in	regulating	 fat	
metabolism,	 which	is	not	the	case	in	terms	of	their	actions	on	carbohydrate	 metabolism.	
Campbell	 and	Febbraio	 (2001)	observed	 an	increased	 activity	in	several	key	enzymes	
involved	 in	fatty	acid	oxidation	 as	a	result	of	estrogen	 supplementation,	 while	such	an	
effect	was	reversed	 with	the	concurrent	 administration	 of	progesterone.	 The	roles	which	
estrogen	 and	progesterone	 play	in	regulating	 fat	and	carbohydrate	 metabolism	 are	illus-
trated	in	 Table	12.1.

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		283
Observations with human subjects
The	effect	of	sex	hormones	 on	energy	metabolism	 has	also	been	examined	 using	
humans.	 Hackney	 (1990)	performed	 muscle	biopsies	 on	the	vastus	lateralis	 of	ten	
healthy	women	in	both	the	follicular  and luteal	phase	of	the	menstrual	 cycle.	They	
found	that	under	resting	conditions	 muscle	glycogen	 content	was	higher	in	the	luteal	
than	in	the	follicular	 phase.	Subsequently,	 this	same	research	 group	also	reported	 a	
lower	carbohydrate	 oxidation	 in	the	luteal	phase	during	exercise	 at	35	and	60	percent	
VO2max	(Hackney	 et al.	1994).	Since	the	luteal	phase	is	when	production	 of	both	estro-
gen	and	progesterone	 was	higher,	this	finding	is	consistent	 with	the	conclusion	 of	animal	
studies	that	estrogen	 attenuates	 the	utilization	 of	carbohydrate.	 The	inhibitive	 role	of	
estrogen	 on	carbohydrate	 utilization	 was	also	evidenced	 in	studies	in	which	subjects	were	
supplemented	 with	 exogenous 	estrogen.	 By	providing	 17ß-estradiol	 or	E2	to	a	group	of	
amenorrhoeic	 females,	 Ruby	 et al.	(1997)	observed	 altered	carbohydrate	 metabolism.	 In	
this	study,	an	isotopic	 tracer	method	 was	used	so	that	investigators	 were	able	to	deter-
mine	muscle	glucose	utilization	 and	hepatic	glucose	production.	 It	was	found	that	the	
release	of	glucose	from	the	liver	was	reduced	 as	a	result	of	increased	 E2	levels	during	
exercise,	 while	glucose	utilization	 by	muscle	remained	 similar	between	 E2	and	placebo	
groups.	Such	a	reduction	 in	hepatic	glucose	output	due	to	E2	supplementation	 was	also	
observed	 by	Carter	 et al.	(2001a),	 who	administered	 E2	to	a	group	of	men,	although	 this	
research	 group	found	a	decrease	 in	muscle	glucose	utilization.	 In	both	studies,	no	differ-
ences	in	whole	body	substrate	 oxidation	 were	found	between	 the	experimental	 and	
placebo	group.	It	appears	that	despite	the	indication	 from	animal	studies	that	estrogen	
may	mitigate	 muscle	glycogen	 utilization,	 such	a	role	of	estrogen	 in	humans	 is	less	
conclusive.
Muscle glycogen synthesis
Given	the	attenuation	 in	glycogen	 utilization	 during	exercise	 seen	in	women,	it	is	likely	
that	the	ability	for	women	to	respond	 to	glycogen	 supercompensation	 would	reduce.	
Tarnopolsky	 et al.	(1995)	examined	 gender	differences	 in	the	response	 of	muscle	glyco-
gen	to	a	modified	 carbohydrate	 loading	protocol	 whereby	 exercise	 intensity	 was	tapered	
for	4d	and	dietary	carbohydrate	 intake	was	either	57	or	75	percent	of	total	energy	intake.	
As	a	result	of	the	higher	carbohydrate	 intake,	the	male	subjects	 demonstrated	 a	41	
percent	increase	 in	muscle	glycogen	 and	a	45	percent	improvement	 in	endurance	 per-
formance,	 whereas	 the	female	subjects	 showed	no	increase	 in	muscle	glycogen	 and	no	
effect	on	performance.	 The	authors	suggested	 that	the	failure	of	women	to	increase	
their	glycogen	 content	was	due	to	insufficient	 carbohydrate	 intake.	For	example,	 in	that	Table 12.1 	The	actions	of	estrogen	and	progesterone	on	carbohydrate	and	fat	metabolism
Actions Estrogen Progesterone
Carbohydrate metabolism
Muscle	glycogenolysis Inhibiting Inhibiting
Liver	glycogenolysis Inhibiting Inhibiting
Glucose	transport	into	muscle Inhibiting Inhibiting
Fat metabolism
Adipose	tissue	lipolysis Stimulating Inhibiting
Fatty	acids	transport	into	mitochondria Stimulating Inhibiting
Source:	adapted	from	Deon	and	Braun	(2002).

284		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
study,	the	energy	intake	was	4.8	and	6.4	g	kg–l d–1	for	females	and	6.6	and	8.2	kcal	kg–l d–1 
for	males,	respectively,	 on	the	low	and	high	carbohydrate	 diet.	It	has	been	recom-
mended	 that	an	effective	 carbohydrate	 loading	protocol	 must	require	an	intake	of	car-
bohydrate	 at	8	to	10	kcal	kg–l d–1	(Burke	and	Hawley	1999).	The	findings	 of	this	study	
may	also	be	explained	 by	potential	 gender	differences	 in	muscle	glycogen	 synthesis	 and/
or	glucose	uptake,	although	this	assertion	remains	to	be	validated.
Protein metabolism
In	the	basal	state,	men	and	women	have	virtually	identical 	turnover 	rates	of	muscle	
protein	 when	the	rates	are	normalized	 to	lean	mass	(Burd	 et al.	2009,	Smith	 et al.	
2009).	During	exercise,	 however,	 women	seem	to	rely	less	on	protein	as	a	substrate 	
during	exercise	 than	do	their	age-	matched	 male	counterparts.	 Early	studies	by	Tar-
nopolsky	 et al.	(1990)	suggest	that	males	oxidize	proportionately	 more	protein	during	
exercise	 based	on	the	observation	 that	males	increased	 24-hour	 urinary	urea	nitrogen 	
excretions	 following	 endurance	 exercise	 compared	 to	a	resting	condition,	 whereas	
females	did	not.	This	same	research	 group	also	found	that	males	oxidize	proportion -
ately	more	leucine	during	exercises	 as	compared	 to	females	 (McKenzie	 et al.	2000).	
The	ability	to	synthesize	 muscle	protein	is	lower	in	women	as	compared	 to	men,	and	
this	is	especially	 the	case	in	older	women	(Burd	 et al.	2009).	In	general,	 women	would	
have	a	reduced	 capacity	 for	hypertrophy	 in	response	 to	resistance	 training	 compared 	
to	men.	Interestingly,	 a	sexual	dimorphism	 has	been	observed;	 that	is,	compared	 to	
men,	women	have	reduced	 muscle	protein	synthesis,	 but	lose	muscle	protein	more	
slowly	as	they	age	(Smith	 et al.	2008).
Nutritional considerations
Women,	like	men,	should	enjoy	a	variety	of	foods,	such	 as	wholegrains,	 fruits,	vegetables,	
healthy	fats,	low-	fat	dairy	and	lean	protein.	 But	women	also	have	special	nutrient	 needs,	
and,	during	each	stage	of	a	woman’s	 life,	these	needs	change.	Iron	is	one	of	the	keys	to	
good	health	and	energy	levels	in	women.	Women	of	reproductive	 age	are	at	risk	for	iron	
deficiency	 anemia	because	 of	iron	loss	due	to	menstruation.	 Iron-	rich	food	sources	
include	red	meat,	chicken,	 turkey,	pork,	fish,	kale,	spinach,	 beans,	lentils,	and	fortified	
breads	and	cereals.	Plant-	based	sources	of	iron	are	more	easily	absorbed	 by	the	body	
when	eaten	with	vitamin	C-	rich	foods,	so	consider	 eating	fortified	 cereal	with	straw-
berries	on	top,	spinach	 salad	with	mandarin	 orange	slices,	or	add	tomatoes	 to	lentil	
soup.	 Hemoglobin ,	the	oxygen-	carrying	 protein	in	red	blood	cells,	binds	oxygen	via	iron.	
Thus,	iron	deficiency	 may	result	in	a	reduced	 oxygen	delivery	to	tissues.	Female	athletes,	
especially	 those	who	participate	 in	endurance	 sports	such	as	distance	 running,	 must	
include	 iron-	rich	foods	in	their	diet	or	risk	incurring	 iron-	deficiency	 anemia	 and	
impaired	running	performance.
	 Another	 nutrient	 of	concern	 for	women	is	calcium	 owing	to	an	increased	 risk	of	
osteo	porosis	in	women.	 Osteoporosis	 occurs	in	both	men	and	women,	 but	80	percent	
of	those	affected	by	osteoporosis	 are	women.	Osteoporosis-	 related	fractures	 occur	in	one	
out	of	every	two	women	over	the	age	of	50	compared	 to	about	one	in	every	eight	men	of	
the	same	age	(Osteoporosis	 Prevention,	 Diagnosis,	 and	Therapy,	 2000).	The	greater	risk	
of	osteoporosis	 in	women	is	because	 men	have	a	higher	peak	bone	mass	to	begin	with	
and	because	bone	loss	is	accelerated	 in	women	for	about	five	years	after	menopause	 due	
to	a	drastic	decline	in	estrogen	 levels.	Being	smaller	in	size,	women	need	fewer	calories	
than	men,	yet	many	may	not	consume	 adequate	 energy	and	may	develop	 disordered	
eating	habits	as	they	attempt	 to	lose	body	mass	for	competition	 purposes.	 Disordered	

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		285
eating	is	more	prevalent	 in	female	athletes	and	may	contribute	 to	the	development	 of	
premature	 osteoporosis.	 Consequently,	 for	healthy	bones	and	teeth,	women,	 including	
athletes,	 need	to	eat	a	variety	of	calcium-	rich	foods	every	day.	Some	calcium-	rich	foods	
include	low-	fat	or	fat-	free	milk,	yogurt	and	cheese,	sardines,	 tofu	(if	made	with	calcium	
sulfate),	 and	calcium-	fortified	 foods	including	 juices	and	cereals.	Table 	12.2 	provides	 a	
list	of	more	specific	dietary	recommendations	 which	women	should	consider	 in	order	to	
maintain	health,	fitness,	and	optimal	performance.
Pregnancy
Pregnancy	 places	unique	demands	 on	women’s	 metabolism.	 When	women	become	preg-
nant,	mechanical	 changes	 related	to	weight	gain	(increases	 in	breasts,	uterus,	and	fetus)	
result	in	a	reallocation	 in	a	woman’s	 center	of	gravity.	This	weight	shift	affects	the	meta-
bolic	cost	and	physiological	 strain	imposed	 by	exercise.	 An	earlier	investigation	 studied	
13	women	from	six	months	of	pregnancy	 to	six	weeks	after	gestation	 (Knuttgen	 and	
Emerson	 1974).	It	was	found	that	during	walking,	 HR	and	VO2	increased	 progressively	
despite	no	change	in	exercise	 intensity.	 However,	 these	two	parameters	 remained	 con-
stant	throughout	 steady-	state	cycle	exercise.	 These	findings	 suggest	that	due	to	an	
increase	 in	body	mass	including	 fetal	tissue,	there	would	be	an	increase	 in	energy	cost	
during	weight-	bearing	activities	 like	walking,	 jogging,	 and	running.	 In	addition	 to	this	
added	energy	cost	during	exercise,	 it	has	also	been	demonstrated	 that	pregnant	 women	
will	have	an	increase	 in	resting	metabolism	 especially	 during	the	later	stages	of	preg-
nancy.	Table 	12.3 	provides	 a	comparison	 in	caloric	cost	of	common	 household	 activities	
between	 pregnant	 and	non-	pregnant	 women.	It	has	been	estimated	 that	throughout	 the	
entire	pregnancy,	 there	would	be	an	addition	 of	75,000	kcal	required	 to	build	new	tissues	
and	to	meet	the	demands	 of	higher	energy	costs	of	daily	activities.	 This	figure	represents	
an	extra	expenditure	 of	250	kcal	per	day	during	a	10-month	 pregnancy	 period.	Despite	
increased	 energy	costs	of	weight-	bearing	 activities,	 it	has	been	assumed	 that	such	an	
increase	 in	energy	cost	is	offset	by	a	decrease	 in	the	amount	 of	time	spent	in	weight-	
bearing	activities	 as	well	as	by	the	relaxed	and	economical	 fashion	in	which	pregnant	
women	move.	Consequently,	 the	net	increase	 in	energy	expenditure	 associated	 with	
pregnancy	 may	only	reflect	an	increase	 in	resting	metabolism	 as	a	result	of	growing	 of	
both	maternal	and	fetal	tissues.
Table 12.2 	Food	choices	important	for	women’s	health
Foods	to	
recommend•		At	least	three	1-ounce	servings	of	wholegrains	such	as	wholegrain	bread,	
cereal,	pasta,	brown	rice,	or	oats.
•		Three	servings	of	low-fat	or	fat-free	dairy	products,	including	low-fat	or	fat-
free	milk,	yogurt,	or	cheese.
•		Five	to	6	ounces	of	protein	such	as	lean	meat,	chicken,	turkey,	fish,	eggs,	
beans	or	peas,	and	nuts.
•	Two	cups	of	fruits	–	fresh,	frozen,	or	canned	without	added	sugar.
•		Two-and-a-half	cups	of	colorful	vegetables	–	fresh,	frozen,	or	canned	
without	added	salt.
Foods	to	limit •		Limit	regular	soft	drinks,	sugar-sweetened	beverages,	candy,	baked	goods	
and	fried	foods.
•		Limit	alcohol	intake	to	one	drink	per	day	( i.e., 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of 
wine, or 1.5 ounces of liquor).
•		Limit	foods	that	are	high	in	saturated	fat	( i.e., those found in fatty meats, 
sausages, cheese and full-fat dairy products, baked goods and pizza).

286		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
Substrate metabolism during pregnancy
Although	 pregnancy	 consists	 of	a	series	of	small,	continuous	 physiological	 adjust-
ments,	the	alterations	 in	substrate	 metabolism	 appear	to	occur	primarily	 during	the	
later	phase	of	pregnancy.	 From	a	metabolic	 standpoint,	 pregnancy	 may	be	divided	
into	phases	such	as	the	first	and	second	halves.	The	first	half	of	pregnancy	 is	primarily 	
a	time	of	preparation	 for	the	demands	 of	rapid	fetal	growth	that	occurs	later	in	preg-
nancy.	During	this	period,	there	is	a	continuous	 increase	 in	the	production	 of	estro-
gen	and	progesterone.	 The	presence	 of	these	hormones	 can	help	not	only	mobilize 	
fat	for	energy	but	also	stabilize	 plasma	glucose	 at	relatively	 high	levels	in	order	to	
meet	the	needs	of	the	fetus.	There	is	evidence	 that	perhaps	 as	a	means	of	protecting 	
the	fetus	from	hypoglycemia,	 pregnancy	 reduces	 the	ability	of	the	mother	to	metabo-
lize	carbohydrate	 (Clapp	 et al.	1987).	This	metabolic	 alteration	 could	inhibit	preg-
nant	women	from	performing	 anaerobic	 or	strenuous	 aerobic	 exercises	 in	which	
carbohydrate	is	a	primary	fuel.
	 For	pregnant	 women,	 measurement	 of	insulin	sensitivity	 is	often	used	to	detect	the	
possibility	 of	gestational diabetes .	This	is	because	 estrogen	 and	 placenta lactogen 	have	
been	considered	 diabetogenic	 hormones	 due	to	their	inhibitive	 effects	on	insulin-	
mediated	 glucose	uptake	by	various	tissues.	A	number	 of	studies	have	reported	 that	
during	the	early	phase	of	pregnancy, 	the	sensitivity 	of	peripheral 	tissues	to	insulin	was	
either	normal	or	slightly	increased	 (Buch	 et al.	1986,	Gatalano	 et al.	1991).	However, 	
longitudinal	 studies	of	glucose	 tolerance	 have	shown	that	as	gestation	 continues, 	
there	would	be	a	progressive 	increase	in	insulin	response 	to	a	given	dose	of	glucose	
challenge	 (Sivan	 et al.	1997).	This	greater-	than-normal	 insulin	response	 is	consistent 	
with	the	phenomenon	 of	insulin resistance 	and	suggests	 that	pregnant	 women	can	
potentially 	diminish 	their	ability	to	handle	glucose	with	insulin.	This	deficiency 	is	
especially	 the	case	in	obese	pregnant	 women	who	have	a	high	risk	of	developing	 dia-
betes	even	without	 pregnancy	 (Sivan	 et al.	1997).	The	reduced	 insulin	sensitivity	 is	
thought	 to	be	secondary	 to	the	gestation-	 induced	 changes	 in	hormones	 including 	
estrogen,	 progesterone,	 cortisol,	 prolactin ,	etc.,	although	 the	precise	mechanism 	
remains	 unclear.	 From	a	fetal	standpoint,	 a	certain	degree	of	insulin	resistance	 is	con-
sidered	desirable	in	that	it	can	serve	to	shunt	ingested	nutrients	to	the	fetus.Table 12.3 		Comparisons	 of	energy	cost	of	household	 activities	 in	pregnant	
and	non-pregnant	women
Activity Energy cost (kcal·min–1)
Pregnant Non-pregnant
Lying	quietly 1.11 0.95
Sitting 1.32 1.02
Sitting,	combing	hair 1.36 1.22
Sitting,	knitting 1.55 1.47
Standing 1.41 1.12
Standing,	washing	dishes 1.63 1.33
Standing,	cooking 1.66 1.41
Sweeping	with	broom 2.90 2.50
Bed-making 2.98 2.66
Sources:	Brooks	 et al.	(2005).	Used	with	permission.

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		287
Exercise during pregnancy
During	pregnancy,	 the	metabolic	 reserve	available	 for	performing	 exercise	 is	diminished 	
owing	to	increased	 resting	metabolism	 and	blunted	sympathetic	 response	 to	physical	activ-
ity.	However, 	during	the	early	stages	of	pregnancy, 	light	to	moderate 	activity	can	be	
pursued	 safely,	given	that	blood	glucose	is	carefully	 monitored	 to	prevent	hypoglycemia. 	
Regular	exercise	during	pregnancy	 counteracts	 the	effects	of	deconditioning .	It	attenuates 	
pregnancy-	 related	fatigue.	It	helps	maintain	 muscular	 strength,	 which	may	speed	delivery.	
It	can	also	prevent	excessive	 weight	gain,	insulin	resistance,	 and	type	2	diabetes.	 Based	on	
the	previous	literature, 	it	appears	that	ordinary	pregnant 	women	are	able	to	tolerate	light-	
to	moderate-	 intensity	 exercise	sessions	of	up	to	30	minutes	in	duration	 and	four	times	per	
week,	although 	exercise	tolerance 	may	be	affected	by	environmental 	conditions 	as	well	as	
the	fitness	level	of	the	mother.	 A	concern	 based	on	animal	studies	has	been	raised	that	
maternal	 exercise	 may	increase	 fetal	temperature,	 which	can	contribute	 to	congenital 	
abnormalities,	 but	no	such	evidence	 has	been	shown	in	humans	(Wang	and	Apgar	1998).	
Caution	should	be	taken	in	selecting	 appropriate	 exercise	modality.	 With	the	advancement 	
of	pregnancy,	 the	capacity	for	exercise,	 especially	 those	activities	 that	occur	against	gravity,	
decreases.	 Therefore,	 during	the	later	stages	of	pregnancy,	 it	is	helpful	to	introduce	 weight-
	supported	 activities	 such	as	cycling,	swimming,	 and	water	aerobics.	 Exercise	 can	be	danger-
ous	if	excessive.	 Important	 contraindications	 to	vigorous	 exercise	 include	hypoglycemia, 	
intrauterine	 growth	retardation,	 premature	 labor	and/or	ruptured	 membrane,	 placental 	
injury	or	dysfunction,	 an	incompetent	 cervix,	pregnancy-	 induced	 hypertension,	 and	blood	
poisoning	(Artal	and	O’Toole	2003).
Nutritional considerations
Pregnancy	 is	a	time	of	increased	 energy	and	nutrient	 needs.	Energy	needs	during	preg-
nancy	increase	 150	kcal	per	day	during	the	first	trimester	 and	then	rise	to	300	to	350	kcal	
per	day	during	the	second	and	third	trimesters.	 If	a	woman	also	exercises,	 her	energy	
needs	will	increase	 above	those	required	 for	pregnancy.	 As	discussed	 in	earlier	chapters,	
the	increase	 in	energy	needed	for	exercise	 will	depend	on	the	type,	intensity,	 frequency,	
and	duration	 of	the	activity.	Benefits	 of	exercise	 include	lower	wright	gain,	an	easier	and	
less	complicated	labor,	more	rapid	recovery	after	labor,	and	improved	overall	fitness.
	 The	RDAs	for	protein	and	carbohydrate	 are	increased	 during	pregnancy.	 The	addi-
tional	protein	is	needed	because	 protein	is	essential	 for	the	formation	 and	growth	of	
new	cells.	During	pregnancy,	 the	placenta	 develops	 and	grows,	the	uterus	and	breast	
enlarges,	 and	a	single	cell	develops	 into	a	fully	formed	infant.	An	additional	 25	grams	of	
protein	per	day	above	RDA	for	non-	pregnant	 women	or	1.1	g	kg–1 is recommended for 
second	and	third	trimesters	 of	pregnancy.	 For	a	woman	weighing	 132	lb	(60	kg),	her	
protein	requirement	 is	about	70	grams	per	day.	This	is	the	amount	of	protein	in	3	cups	
of	milk	or	yogurt	plus	5	to	6	oz	of	meat.	It	is	recommended	 that	a	pregnant	 woman	raises	
her	carbohydrate	 intake	by	45	to	50	grams	per	day	in	order	to	provide	sufficient	 glucose	
to	fuel	the	fetal	and	maternal	 brains.	However,	 adding	this	amount	to	the	existing	RDA	
for	carbohydrate	 totals	up	to	175	grams	per	day.	This	is	well	below	the	typical	intake	of	
about	300	grams	per	day,	and	therefore	 most	women	don’t	need	to	consciously	 increase	
their	carbohydrate	intake.
	 The	need	for	many	vitamins	 and	minerals	 is	increased	 during	pregnancy.	 Due	to	the	
growth	in	maternal	 and	fetal	tissues	as	well	as	increased	 energy	utilization,	 the	require-
ments	for	B	vitamins,	 such	as	thiamin,	 niacin,	and	riboflavin,	 increase.	 To	form	new	
maternal	 and	fetal	cells	and	to	meet	the	needs	for	protein	synthesis,	 the	requirements	
for	folate,	vitamin	B12,	vitamin	B6,	zinc,	and	iron	increase.	 The	needs	for	calcium,	

288  Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
vitamin	D,	and	vitamin	C	increase	 to	provide	for	the	growth	and	development	 of	bone	
and	connective	 tissue.	Table 	12.4 	illustrates	 the	daily	food	checklist	 that	allows	for	a	
proper	intake	of	the	major	nutrients	important	at	various	stages	of	pregnancy.
	 Supplementations,	 especially	 for	iron	and	folic	acid,	are	typically	 provided	 by	the	
physician	 during	pregnancy.	 A	woman’s	 folic	acid	needs	double	during	pregnancy.	 This	
is	to	also	prevent	neural	tube	defects	(in	which	the	child	is	born	with	an	underdeveloped	
brain)	or	spina	bifida	(in	which	the	spinal	cord	does	not	completely	 close).	Foods	that	
naturally	 contain	folate	include	citrus	fruits,	leafy	greens,	beans,	and	peas,	and	there	are	
many	folic	acid-	fortified	 foods	such	as	cereals,	rice,	and	breads.	Iron	needs	of	a	pregnant	
woman	also	increase	 especially	 in	the	later	stages	of	pregnancy	 in	order	to	allow	for	the	
synthesis	 of	hemoglobin	 and	other	iron-	containing	 proteins	 in	both	maternal	 and	fetal	
tissues.	Even	though	iron	losses	are	decreased	 due	to	the	cessation	 of	menstruation,	
iron-	deficiency	 anemia	is	common	 during	pregnancy.	 This	is	in	part	because	 low	iron	
stores	are	common	 among	women	of	childbearing	 age,	so	many	women	start	pregnancy	
with	diminished	iron	stores	and	quickly	become	deficient.
The elderly
The	elderly	(i.e.,	those	who	reach	and	pass	the	age	of	65)	make	up	the	fastest-	growing	
segment	 of	our	society	today.	For	example,	 currently	 in	the	US	approximately	 35	million	
or	nearly	12	percent	of	Americans	 exceed	the	age	of	65.	It	is	predicted	 that	this	figure	
will	climb	to	70	million	or	22	percent	of	the	population	 by	2030.	Such	a	trend	seen	in	
the	US	should	also	apply	in	many	Western	 nations	and	may	soon	emerge	in	developing	
countries.	 Aging	refers	to	the	normal	yet	irreversible	 biological	 changes	 that	occur	
throughout	 an	individual’s	 life	span.	It	involves	 a	diminished	 capacity	 to	regulate	 the	
internal	environment	in	 order	to	meet	external	challenges.	 As	shown	in	 Table 	 12.5,	such	Table 12.4 	Daily	food	checklist	recommended	for	pregnancy
Food group 1st trimester 2nd and 3rd 
trimestersWhat counts as 1 cup or 1 ounce?
Fruits 2	cups 2	cups •	1	cup	fruit	or	100%	juice
•	1/2	cup	dried	fruit
Vegetables 2	1/2	cups 3	cups •	1	cup	raw	or	cooked	vegetables	or	100%	juice
•	2	cups	raw	leafy	vegetables
Grains 6	ounces 8 ounces •	1	slice	bread
•	1	ounce	ready-to-eat	cereal
•	1/2	cup	cooked	pasta,	rice,	or	cereal
Protein 5	1/2	ounces6	1/2	ounces •	1	ounce	lean	meat,	poultry,	or	seafood
•	1/4	cup	cooked	beans
•	1/2	ounce	nuts	or	1  tbsp	peanut	butter
•	1	egg
Dairy 3	cups 3	cups •	1	cup	milk
•	8	ounces	yogurt
•	1	1/2	ounces	natural	cheese
•	2	ounces	processed	cheese
Note
If	you	are	not	gaining	weight	or	gaining	too	slowly,	you	may	need	to	eat	a	little	more	from	each	food	
group.	If	you	are	gaining	weight	too	fast,	you	may	need	to	cut	back	by	decreasing	 the	amount	or	change	
the	types	of	foods	you	are	eating.

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		289
a	reduced	 ability	may	be	further	attributed	 to	a	series	of	attenuated	 or	impaired	 physio-
logical	and	metabolic	 functions,	 which	ultimately	 reduce	one’s	ability	to	generate	 the	
energy	needed.	 Aging	is	influenced	 by	genetics.	 This	may	be	attested	 by	observations	
that	the	life	span	of	twins	is	remarkably	 similar.	Identical	 twins	usually	die	within	two	to	
four	years	of	each	other,	whereas	 non-	identical	 twins	die	within	seven	to	nine	years	of	
each	other.	Aging	is	also	affected	 by	lifestyle	factors.	It	is	considered	 the	process	associ-
ated	with	an	accumulation	 of	wear-	and-tear	 that	leads	to	gradual	loss	of	the	ability	to	
respond	 to	stress.	On	the	other	hand,	although	 it	may	not	halt	the	aging	process,	regular	
physical	 activity	and	a	healthy	diet	can	help	improve	 quality	of	life	and	prolong	 life	
expectancy.
Changes in body composition
Aging	causes	various	changes	 in	body	composition,	 which	have	important	 consequences	
for	health	and	physical	functions.	 There	is	a	progressive	 decrease	 in	lean	body	mass	and	
an	increase	 in	body	fat.	Decreased	 physical	activity	accounts	 for	the	increase	 in	body	fat,	
and	this	may	lead	to	decreased	 energy	intake	with	aging.	These	changes	 in	body	com-
position,	 including	 those	in	fat	distribution,	 may	be	associated	 with	changes	 in	various	
physiological	 functions	 that	affect	metabolism,	 nutrient	 intake,	physical	activity,	and	risk	
for	chronic	diseases.	 Sarcopenia	 is	another	 age-	related	change.	The	loss	of	lean	muscle	
mass	may	lead	to	a	gain	in	body	fat.	It	may	be	more	noticeable	 through	 loss	of	strength,	
functional	 decline,	 and	poor	endurance	 with	aging.	This	loss	also	leads	to	reduced	 total	
body	water	content.	 There	is	also	an	alteration	 in	bone	density	that	results	from	a	
decrease	 in	mineral	content	which	occurs	with	aging.	Loss	of	bone	density	may	in	turn	
increase	 the	risk	for	osteoporosis.	 Severe	osteoporosis	 may	cause	the	bones	in	the	legs	to	
bow	under	the	weight	of	the	body.	This	bowing,	 together	 with	changes	 in	the	spine,	
makes	measurement	 of	height	unreliable	 in	some	elderly	people,	even	in	those	who	are	
able	to	stand	unaided.
Reduced gastrointestinal functions
Effects	of	aging	on	the	perceptions	 of	smell	and	taste	have	been	observed,	 which	may	
alter	or	decrease	 food	intake.	This	is	a	common	 perceived	 problem	 among	elderly	Table 12.5 	Aging-related	metabolic	changes	and	their	physiological	consequences
Metabolic change Physiological consequences
Myosin-ATPase	 ↓ Reduced	muscle	contractility
Lactate	dehydrogenase	 ↓ Reduced	glycolysis
Succinic	dehydrogenase	 ↓ Reduced	oxidative	capacity
Malic	dehydrogenase	 ↓ Reduced	oxidative	capacity
Cytochrome	oxidase	 ↓ Reduced	oxidative	capacity
Mitochondria	size	and	number	 ↓Reduced	oxidative	capacity
Type	II	muscle	fibers	 ↓ Reduced	muscle	strength	and	power
Capillary	density	 ↓ Reduced	oxygen	delivery
Glucose tolerance ↓ Increased	risk	of	diabetes	and	heart	diseases
Blood	insulin	 ↑ Increased	risk	of	diabetes	and	heart	disease
Insulin	sensitivity	 ↓ Increased	risk	of	diabetes	and	heart	disease
Sympathetic	stimulation	 ↓ Reduced	maximal	heart	rate	and	lipolysis
Muscle	mass	 ↓ Reduced	basal	metabolism	and	fat	oxidation

290		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
individuals	 who	complain	 of	a	loss	of	both	taste	and	smell.	Impaired	 appetite	 is	often	
associated	 with	a	reduction	 in	taste	and	smell,	which	occurs	in	up	to	50	percent	 of	
elderly	people.	Diminished	 senses	of	taste	and	smell	make	food	less	appealing.	 These	
changes	 typically	 alter	eating	habits	and	reduce	nutrient	 availability	 and	absorption,	
which	may	lead	to	nutritional	 deficiencies.	 Various	other	changes	 occur	throughout	 the	
digestive	 system.	There	is	a	decrease	 in	gastric	acid	secretion,	 which	may	limit	the	
absorption	 of	iron	and	vitamin	B12.	Saliva	production	 decreases,	 leading	to	slower	peri-
stalsis	and	constipation.	 Other	gastrointestinal	 changes	 occur	with	age	and	may	affect	
food	intake.	For	example,	 greater	satiation	 after	a	meal	and	a	delay	in	gastric	emptying	
have	been	observed	in	older	people.
Reduced aerobic capacity and energy expenditure
Reductions	 in	physical	 capacity	 may	be	characterized	 by	a	decrease	 in	aerobic	power	or	
VO2max,	which	was	observed	 more	than	half	a	century	ago.	With	cross-	sectional	 compar-
isons,	Robinson	 (1938)	demonstrated	 that	in	men	VO2max	declines	 at	an	average	of	
0.44	ml	kg–1 min–1	per	year	up	to	age	75.	This	is	translated	 into	about	1	percent	per	year	
or	10	percent	per	decade.	For	women	between	 the	ages	of	25	and	65,	Åstrand	 (1960)	
showed	a	decline	of	0.38	ml	kg–1 min–1,	or	0.9	percent	per	year.	Since	these	early	observa-
tions	there	have	been	numerous	 cross-	sectional	 and,	to	a	lesser	extent,	longitudinal	
studies	attempting	 to	further	characterize	 such	age-	related	decline	in	VO2max	and	its	
metabolic	 consequences.	 The	rate	of	decline	in	VO2max	found	in	these	studies	in	
general	 agrees	to	what	was	reported	 initially	by	Robinson	 in	1938.	A	reduction	 in	
VO2max	due	to	aging	has	been	further	ascribed	 to	a	decrease	 in	maximal	 heart	rate,	
maximal	 cardiac	output,	and	maximal	 ability	of	working	 muscle	to	utilize	oxygen	for	
energy	transference.
	 Goran	 and	Poehlman	 (1992)	observed	 a	significant	 correlation	 between	 VO2max	and	
total	daily	energy	expenditure.	 In	this	study,	authors	also	found	a	modest	relationship	
between	 the	total	daily	energy	expenditure	 and	the	level	of	physical	 activity.	These	find-
ings	suggest	that	those	with	a	greater	aerobic	fitness	tend	to	be	more	physically	 active	
and	therefore	 have	greater	daily	energy	expenditure.	 However,	 such	a	linkage	between	
fitness	level	and	energy	expenditure	 provides	 no	information	 of	cause	and	effect.	In	
other	words,	it	is	unclear	whether	 the	increased	 total	energy	expenditure	 associated	 with	
a	physically	 active	lifestyle	leads	to	a	higher	VO2max,	or	alternatively,	 whether	 those	indi-
viduals	with	a	higher	VO2max	engage	in	physical	activities	 more	frequently	 and	intensely	
because	of	the	higher	work	capacity.
	 A	reduction	 in	total	energy	expenditure	 has	been	well	evidenced	 in	the	elderly	
(Margaret-	 Mary	and	Morley	2003,	Elia	 et al.	2000).	Interestingly,	 many	normal-	weight	
healthy	older	men	and	women	decrease	 their	energy	intake	well	below	their	energy	
expenditure	 and	thus	lose	weight.	In	addition	 to	lack	of	physical	activity,	the	age-	related	
decrease	 in	energy	expenditure	 has	also	been	linked	to	reductions	 in	basal	metabolic	
rate	and	diet-	induced	 thermogenesis .	More	detailed	 discussion	 on	these	two	energy	com-
ponents	may	be	found	in	 Chapter	15.
Changes in enzymes of bioenergetic pathways
As	mentioned 	earlier,	mitochondria 	serves	to	allow	biologically 	usable	energy	to	be	
generated	 via	oxidative	 pathways.	 Therefore,	 the	frequently	 examined	 markers	 of	
mitochondrial 	function 	in	skeletal	muscle	have	been	activities 	of	selected	oxidative	
enzymes	 and	rate	of	ATP	production.	 Numerous	 studies	have	all	reported	 age-	related	
decline	in	enzymes, 	such	as	citrate	synthase, 	succinate- 	dehydrogenase, 	and	cytochrome	

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		291
c	oxidase.	 Furthermore,	 with	data	provided	 by	Holloszy	 et al.	(1991),	it	appears	 that	
such	reduction	 in	activity	of	oxidative	 enzymes	 occurs	primarily	 in	red	predominantly 	
oxidative	 muscle	than	in	white	glycolytic	 muscles.	 As	a	result	of	these	enzymatic 	
changes,	 mitochondrial	 oxidative	 capacity	 is	impaired.	 With	the	use	of	muscle	
samples, 	Papa	(1996)	observed 	a	decreased 	ability	of	mitochondria 	to	consume	
oxygen	for	generating	 energy.	This	 in vitro	observation	 is	later	confirmed	 by	an	in vivo  
study	in	which	Conley	 et al.	(2000)	used	nuclear	magnetic	 resonance	 techniques	 and	
found	that	the	average	rate	of	ATP	formation	 in	the	quadricep	 muscles	 of	older	sub-
jects	between	 the	ages	of	65	and	80	was	approximately	 half	that	of	subjects	 between	
the	ages	of	25	to	48.
Alterations in carbohydrate and fat metabolism
Another	 metabolic	 hallmark	 of	the	aging	process	is	the	impairment	 of	carbohydrate	 and	
fat	metabolism.	 Substantial	 evidence	 has	been	provided	 showing	 that	increasing	 age	is	
associated	 with	decreased	 glucose tolerance .	The	glucose	tolerance	 test	measures	 the	
body’s	ability	to	metabolize	 glucose.	 It	is	performed	 after	an	overnight	 fast.	During	the	
test,	a	patient	drinks	a	solution	 containing	 a	known	amount	 of	glucose.	 Blood	is	
obtained	 before	the	patient	drinks	the	glucose	solution,	 and	is	drawn	again	every	30	to	
60	minutes	 after	the	glucose	is	consumed	 for	two	or	three	hours.	Blood	glucose	levels	
above	normal	limits	at	the	times	measured	 may	be	used	to	diagnose	 type	2	diabetes	 or	
gestational	 diabetes.	 It	has	been	estimated	 that	the	two-hour 	plasma	glucose	level	during	
an	oral	glucose	tolerance	 test	rises	on	average	5.3	mg	dl–1	per	decade	and	the	fasting	
plasma	glucose	 rises	on	average	 1	mg	dl–1	per	decade	(Davidson	 1979).	Insulin,	 a	
hormone	 produced	 by	the	pancreas	 that	moves	glucose	from	the	bloodstream	 into	cells,	
has	also	been	found	to	be	higher	in	many	older	individuals.	 This	observation	 suggests	
that	the	as	one	ages	one	may	lose	the	ability	to	respond	 to	insulin	effectively	 and	there-
fore	require	extra	insulin	to	maintain	normal	blood	glucose	level.
 The	impairment	 in	fat	metabolism	 is	another	 age-	related	metabolic	 disorder.	 Aging	
has	been	associated	 with	reduced	 fat	oxidation	 at	rest	(Nagy	 et al.	1996)	and	following	 a	
meal	(Roberts	 et al.	1996).	Sial	et al.	(1998)	also	demonstrated	 age-	related	reduction	 in	
fat	oxidation	during	 aerobic	exercise.	It	is	thought	 that	these	reductions	 in	fat	utilization	
play	an	important	 role	in	mediating	 the	age-	related	increase	 in	adiposity	 especially	 in	
the	abdominal	 compartment.	 In	the	study	by	Sial	et al.	(1998),	the	authors	also	reported	
a	greater	carbohydrate	 oxidation,	 a	finding	that	was	thought	 to	result	from	impaired	 fat	
utilization.	 All	these	age-	related	metabolic	 changes	 will	gradually	 deprive	the	elderly	of	
the	ability	to	use	their	energy	fuel	efficiently	 during	exercise	 as	compared	 to	younger	
individuals.
	 Fat	oxidation 	is	mainly	a	function 	of	two	processes, 	namely	the	release	of	fatty	acids	
from	adipose	tissue	and	the	capacity	 of	respiring	 tissue	to	oxidize	fatty	acids.	Previous 	
studies	using	aging	rats	and	humans	 have	demonstrated	 a	diminished	 sympathetic 	
stimulation	 of	lipolysis	 (Lönnqvist	 et al.	1990).	However,	 when	examined	 in	relation	 to	
the	needs	of	the	metabolically	 active	tissue,	the	release	of	free	fatty	acids	was	found	to	
be	greater	in	older	compared	 to	younger	 individuals	 (Toth	 et al.	1996).	The	age-	
related	reduction 	in	fat	utilization 	is	therefore 	considered 	to	be	primarily 	due	to	the	
loss	of	the	size	and/or	oxidative	 capacity	 of	metabolically	 active	tissues	such	as	skeletal	
muscle.	 Those	fatty	acids	that	are	released	 but	not	metabolized	 could	have	adverse	
metabolic	 effects,	such	as	hyperlipidemia 	and	insulin	resistance.	 In	this	regard,	regular	
physical	 activity	becomes	 particularly	 important	 because	 it	can	maintain	 or	increase	
the	size	and	function	 of	skeletal	muscle,	thereby	improving	 the	health	status	of	elderly	
individuals.

292		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
Nutritional considerations
Adults’	energy	needs	typically	 decline	with	age.	This	is	due	to	a	decrease	 in	all	com-
ponents	 of	total	energy	expenditure	 that	include	basal	metabolic	 rate	(BMR),	thermal	
effect	of	foods,	and	physical	 activity.	 These	decreases	 are	reflected	 in	the	energy	
needs	of	older	adults.	For	example,	 the	estimated	 energy	requirement	 (EER)	for	an	
80-year-	old	man	is	almost	600	kcal	per	day	less	than	that	for	a	20-year-	old	man	of	the	
same	height,	weight,	and	physical	 activity	level.	Physical	 inactivity	 decreases	 energy	
needs	even	further.	 In	fact,	decreased	 physical	 activity	is	estimated	 to	account	 for	
about	half	of	the	decrease	 in	total	energy	expenditure	 that	occurs	with	aging	(Villar-
eal et al.	2005).	The	decrease	 in	activity	also	contributes	 to	the	reduction	 in	lean	body	
mass	and	BMR.	As	more	research	 emerges,	 it	is	apparent	 that	the	best	diet	for	older	
adults	is	one	that	is	balanced	 with	wholegrains,	 plenty	of	fruits,	lean	proteins,	 and	
plant	proteins.	 By	consuming	 a	wide	variety	of	nutrient-	 dense	foods	and	engaging	 in	
physical	 activity,	older	adults	can	slow	the	loss	in	lean	body	mass	that	occurs	naturally 	
with	aging.	Besides	observing	 the	general	 recommendation	 to	consume	 a	balanced 	
diet	as	discussed	 in	Chapter 	10, 	older	adults	may	also	refer	to	the	food	guide	pyramid	
created	by	Tufts	University	 which	emphasizes	 specific	nutrients	 of	concern	 to	older	
adults	(Figure	12.1).
Calcium, vitamin D, vitamin B-12
Supplements
Not all people need these supplements,
check with your healthcare providerUse saturated and trans fat, sugar
and salt sparinglySaturated and trans  fats = 
Added sugar = Salt =
Low- and nonfat dairy products
3 or more servings
Bright-colored vegtables
3 or more servings
Whole , enriched and
fortified grains
and cereals
6 or more servings
Water/liquids
8 or moreservingsDry beans and nuts, fish,
poultr y, lean meat, eggs
2 or more servings
Deep-colored fruit
2 or more servings
Choose whole grains and
fortified foods such as
brown rice, 100 percent
wholewheat bread, and
bran cereals
Choose water, fruit
or vegetable juice,
low- and nonfat
milk, or soupf+
f+ f+
f+ f+
f+f+f+
f+
f+
f+ High-fibre choicesWhole
WheatHigh Fibre
Bran
CerealYOGURT
Figure 12.1 	Food	guides	pyramid	for	older	adults

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		293
	 Protein	 is	needed	at	all	ages	to	repair	and	maintain	 body	tissues.	Therefore,	 unlike	
energy	requirements,	 the	requirement	 for	protein	does	not	decline	with	age.	However,	
the	older	adult	who	has	drastically	 decreased	 his	or	her	energy	intake	will	often	reduce	
protein	intake	as	well,	increasing	 the	risk	of	protein	malnutrition.	 RDA	for	adults	is	0.8	g	
of	protein	per	kg	of	body	weight	per	day.	However,	 this	recommended	 amount	is	now	
considered	 inadequate	 for	older	adults	due	to	reduced	 efficiency	 in	protein	utilization.	
Due	to	anabolic	 resistance	 that	develops	 as	one	ages,	the	amount	of	protein	required	 to	
stimulate	 protein	 synthesis	 would	be	greater	in	older	adults	as	compared	 to	their	
younger	 counterparts.	 Recent	reports	suggest	that	older	adults	consume	 1.0	to	1.2	g/kg	
BW/day	to	maintain	proper	nitrogen	balance	and	optimal	health	(Bauer	 et al.	2013).
	 The	recommended	 proportion	 of	energy	from	carbohydrate	 does	not	change	with	
age,	but	the	total	amount	 needed	may	be	lower	in	older	adults	due	to	lower	energy	
needs.	For	example,	 as	shown	in	the	food	guide	pyramid	 created	by	Tufts	University,	 the	
recommended	 servings	 for	grain	products	 are	only	6	as	compared	 to	6	to	11	designed	
for	younger	 adults.	The	lower	amount	 of	carbohydrate	 recommended	 is	also	because	
reduced	 glucose	tolerance	 is	common	 among	older	adults,	especially	 those	who	are	
inactive.	 Dietary	carbohydrate	 should	come	from	wholegrain,	 fruits,	vegetables,	 and	
dairy	products,	 and	foods	high	in	added	sugars	should	be	limited.	This	pattern	will	help	
assure	adequate	nutrients	without	excess	energy.
	 Although	 the	recommended	 intake	for	many	micronutrients	 is	no	different	 for	older	
adults	than	for	younger	 adults,	the	decrease	 in	energy	intake	that	occurs	with	age	causes	
a	decline	in	the	intake	of	many	micronutrients,	 especially	 the	vitamin	Bs,	vitamin	D,	
calcium,	 iron,	and	zinc	(American	 Dietetic	Association	 2005).	These	deficiencies	 if	per-
sistent	could	lead	to	a	number	 of	health	concerns,	 such	as	impaired	 immune	 function,	
impaired	 wound	healing,	 muscle	weakness,	 and	fatigue.	To	remedy	these	deficiencies,	 it	
has	been	suggested	 that	older	adults	consider	 taking	one	multivitamin	 daily	because	this	
dose	of	supplementation	 is	safe	and	inexpensive,	 and	has	been	proved	beneficial	 in	pre-
venting	cardiovascular	diseases,	cancer,	and	osteoporosis	(Fletcher	and	Fairfield	2002).
Children and adolescents
The	period	of	life	from	birth	to	the	start	of	adulthood	 may	be	divided	into	three	phases:	
infancy,	childhood ,	and	 adolescence .	Infancy	is	defined	as	the	first	year	of	life.	Child-
hood	spans	from	the	first	birthday	 to	the	beginning	 of	adolescence.	 The	period	of	ado-
lescence	 is	more	difficult	to	determine,	 but	is	often	considered	 to	begin	at	the	onset	of	
puberty	and	to	terminate	 as	growth	and	development	 are	completed.	 Research	 on	
metabolism	 with	regard	to	this	early	stage	of	life	spectrum	 is	relatively	 limited.	This	is	
mainly	due	to	ethical	considerations	 and	methodological	 constraints	 in	studying	 chil-
dren	and	adolescents.	 For	example,	 there	are	very	few	investigators	 who	would	puncture	
a	child’s	artery	or	take	a	needle	biopsy	of	a	child’s	muscle.	In	addition,	 there	is	still	an	
ongoing	 effort	to	search	for	instruments	 and	protocols	 that	are	age-	and/or	 size-	
appropriate.	 Consequently,	 our	understanding	 of	children’s	 metabolic	 response	 to	exer-
cise	has	been	based	on	a	limited	number	 of	investigations.	 Many	conclusions	 regarding	
exercise	 metabolism	 in	children	 and	adolescents	 are	derived	primarily	 from	measure-
ment	of	cardio-	respiratory	 parameters	 such	as	oxygen	uptake	and	respiratory	 exchange	
ratio.
	 Children	 and	adolescents	 should	not	be	regarded	 as	miniature	 adults.	In	other	words,	
the	age-	related	functional	 deficiency	 in	children	 and	adolescents	 is	not	always	attribut-
able	to	the	fact	that	they	are	smaller	in	size.	It	is	generally	 true	that	children	 are	less	
capable	of	performing	 a	given	task	as	compared	 to	adults,	yet	their	physiological	 func-
tion	increases	 as	they	grow	older	and	bigger.	However,	 only	some	gains	in	physiological	

294		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
function	 are	proportional	 to	changes	 in	size.	For	example,	 muscle	strength	 increases	 in	
direct	proportion	 to	its	cross-	sectional	 area.	Many	changes	 in	function	 have	been	found	
to	be	either	partially	 related	to	or	completely	 independent	 of	changes	 in	size.	For	
example,	 anaerobic	 capacity	 depends	 on	the	activity	of	some	key	anaerobic	 enzymes	 in	
addition	 to	muscle	size.	It	has	also	been	found	that	some	physiological	 parameters	 such	
as	blood	concentration	 of	oxygen	and	glucose	remain	unchanged	 despite	a	gain	in	body	
size.	It	is	important	 to	understand	 the	patterns	 of	function–size	 relationship	 in	growing	
individuals.	 This	will	help	in	making	not	only	proper	interpretations	 of	age-	related	physi-
ological	 differences,	 but	also	nutritional	 recommendations	 specific	 to	children	 and	
adolescents.
Aerobic and anaerobic capacity
As	mentioned	 earlier,	VO2max	reflects	the	highest	metabolic	 rate	made	available	 by	aerobic	
energy	transferring	 and	this	parameter	 may	be	expressed	 in	both	l	min–1	and	ml·kg–1 min–1.	
As	shown	in	Table 	12.6, 	which	depicts	the	chronological	 changes	 in	VO2max	in	l·min–1 
reported	 by	previous	 studies	involving	 boys	(n	=	2180)	and	girls	(n	=	1730),	VO2max	
increases 	continuously 	until	the	age	of	16	to	18	in	boys,	but	increases 	minimally 	beyond	the	
age	of	14	to	15	in	girls.	Such	gender	difference	 in	VO2max	may	be	ascribed	in	part	to	the	
differences	 in	muscle	mass	between	 boys	and	girls	(Davies	 et al.	1972).	As	a	result	of	ratio	
scaling	in	which	VO2max	in	l·min–1	is	divided	by	body	mass,	however,	 the	average	VO2max	
in	ml	kg–1 min–1	was	still	relatively	 higher	in	boys	than	in	girls,	especially	 during	later	periods	
of	adolescence	 (Table 	12.6). 	This	finding	suggests	that	the	increase	in	VO2max	may	also	be	
explained	 by	other	factors	such	as	those	involved	 in	oxygen	transport	 and	utilization	 that	
are	gender	specific.	Over	the	years	VO2max	in	ml	kg–1 min–1	remains	essentially	 unchanged 	
in	boys	and	slightly	declines	 among	girls.	Thus,	when	comparing	 aerobic	capacity	 using	
VO2max	already	adjusted	 for	body	mass,	one	should	expect	no	differences	 between	 chil-
dren	and	adults.	The	decline	in	this	relative	VO2max	seen	in	girls	may	be	due	to	a	progres-
sive	increase	in	body	fat	in	girls	during	adolescence.
	 Despite	 the	fact	that	children	 often	perform	 activities	 in	an	intermittent	 fashion,	their	
anaerobic	 capacity	 is	lower	than	that	of	adults.	This	lower	anaerobic	 capacity	 may	be	
manifested	 particularly	 in	those	short-	term	events	that	last	for	one	to	two	minutes,	 such	
as	a	400-	to	800-m	run	or	a	100-	to	200-m	swim.	This	is	because	children	 are	less	able	to	
store	glycogen	 as	well	as	to	extract	energy	from	glycogen	 via	glycolysis	 (Eriksson	 et al.	
1971,	1973).	The	reduced	 anaerobic	 capacity	 in	children	 may	also	be	explained	 by	a	
decreased	 sympathetic	 activity,	which	functions	 to	simulate	 glycogenolysis	 and	glycolysis.	
Pullinen	 et al.	(1998)	showed	that	adolescent	 males	aged	15	±	1	years	have	lower	levels	of	
blood	catecholamines	 during	resistance	 exercise	 as	compared	 to	adult	males	aged	25	±	6	
years.	Interestingly,	 unlike	glycogen,	 both	storage	and	utilization	 of	ATP	and	CP	were	
Table 12.6 	Average	maximal	aerobic	power	in	children	and	adolescents
VO2max Age (years)
6 8 10 12 14 16
VO2max	in	l·min–1Boys 1.0 1.3 1.6 2.1 2.7 3.5
Girls 0.9 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0
VO2max	in	ml·kg–1·min–1Boys47 50 51 51 51 51
Girls46 46 45 43 42 40
Source:	Adapted	from	Bar-Or	and	Rowland	(2004).

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		295
found	to	be	comparatively	 similar	among	children	 and	adults	(Zanconato	 et al.	1993,	
Eriksson	 et al.	1971).	In	these	adult–children	 comparisons,	 the	level	of	energy	substrates	
was	expressed	relative	to	muscle	mass	to	account	for	differences	in	body	size.
Oxygen deficit and respiratory exchange ratio
Among	other	gas	exchange	 parameters	 that	have	received	 a	great	deal	of	attention	 for	
children	 are	oxygen	kinetics	and	respiratory	 exchange	 ratios.	 Oxygen kinetics assesses 
the	integrated	 responses	 of	oxygen	requirements	 and	supply	at	the	onset	of	and	during	
exercise	 of	varying	intensity.	 VO2	kinetics	at	the	onset	of	exercise	 may	be	characterized	
by	a	phenomenon	 of	oxygen deficit ,	which	is	defined	as	a	lag	of	oxygen	supply	in	rela-
tion	to	oxygen	demand.	 A	number	 of	studies	have	attempted	 to	examine	 VO2	kinetics	at	
the	onset	of	aerobic	exercise	 in	children	 (Armon	 et al.	1991,	Heberstreit	 et al.	1998,	Sady	
1981).	In	general,	 these	studies	agreed	on	the	observation	 that	children	 demonstrated	 a	
faster	increase	 in	oxygen	uptake	at	the	onset	of	exercise	 than	did	adults.	It	appears	that	
children	 have	the	ability	to	activate	their	oxidative	 metabolism	 faster	to	meet	the	energy	
demands	 imposed	 by	exercise.	 Aside	from	having	a	more	prompted	 activation	 of	the	
aerobic	system,	children	 are	also	found	to	be	able	to	derive	proportionally	 more	of	their	
total	energy	from	fat	oxidation.	 A	number	 of	studies	have	reported	 a	lower	RER	in	chil-
dren	than	in	adults	(Martinez	 and	Haymes	1992,	Rowland	 et al.	1987),	although	 this	con-
tention	needs	to	be	further	evaluated	 as	other	studies	have	failed	to	observe	 this	
age-	related	difference	(Rowland	and	Rimmy	1995,	Macek	 et al.	1976).
Metabolic efficiency
When	performing	 aerobic	exercise,	 children	 are	found	to	be	less	efficient	 than	adults.	
This	is	manifested	 by	a	greater	mass-	specific	 oxygen	uptake	or	VO2	expressed	 in	
ml	kg–1 min–1	observed	 in	children.	 This	metabolic	 feature	is	particularly	 the	case	during	
weight-	bearing	activities	 such	as	walking	and	running	 (Fawkner	 and	Armstrong	 2003).	
Sallis	 et al.	(1991)	have	attempted	to	quantify	the	excessive	metabolic	cost	of	walking	and	
running	 by	compiling	 data	from	various	studies.	As	shown	in	Figure 	12.2, 	on	average,	 a	
5-year-	old	child	would	expend	about	35	to	40	percent	 more	oxygen	than	adults	who	
perform	 the	same	task.	This	excess,	however,	 decreases	 with	age.	It	is	suggested	 that	the	
low	economy	 of	locomotion	 in	children	 is	caused	by	multiple	 reasons,	 including	 high	
resting	metabolic	 rate,	high	stride	frequency,	 mechanically	 wasteful	 locomotion	 style,	
and	excessive	co-	 contraction	of	antagonist	muscles	(Bar-	 Or	and	Rowland	2004).
40
05 10
Age (years)15 20Excess energy cost (percent)35
3025201510
50
Figure 12.2 		Excess	oxygen	cost	of	walking	 and	running	 per	kilogram	 body	mass	in	
children	of	various	ages	compared	with	young	adults

296		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
Carbohydrate storage and utilization
Based	on	very	limited	data	of	muscle	biopsies	 performed	 on	children	 (Eriksson	 et al.	
1973),	it	appears	 that	there	is	a	lower	glycogen	 content	 at	rest	and	reduced	 rate	of	
glycogenolysis	 during	exercise	 in	children	 as	compared	 to	adults.	Lundberg	 et al.	(1979)	
also	found	that	glycogen	 concentration	 in	vastus	lateralis	in	children	 investigated	 during	
surgery	was	lower	than	those	observed	 in	adults.	The	reasons	for	the	low	muscle	glyco-
gen	content	are	not	clear.	However,	 muscle	glycogen	 synthesis	 depends	 on	glycogen	 syn-
thase	activity,	which	is	mainly	stimulated	 by	insulin	but	also	by	insulin	growth	factor-	1	
(IGF-	1).	In	this	context,	 hormonal	 changes	 occurring	 during	the	pubertal	 period	could	
contribute	to	the	differences	observed	between	prepubertal	and	adult	subjects.
	 Children	 also	demonstrate	 a	reduced	 ability	to	use	carbohydrate	 as	an	energy	source.	
Early	research	 has	reported	 a	lower	RER	in	children	 than	in	adults	(Martinez	 and	
Haymes	1992,	Rowland	 et al.	1987),	which	is	indicative	 of	a	greater	percentage	 of	energy	
derived	from	fat	oxidation.	 The	reduced	 use	of	carbohydrate	 may	also	be	attributed	 to	
the	lower	muscle	glycogen	 storage	found	in	children	 (Eriksson	 et al.	1973,	Lundberg	 et 
al.	1979).	Glycogen	 utilization	 is	regulated	 by	the	activity	of	such	enzymes	 as	phospho-
fructokinase	 and	this	enzyme	has	been	found	to	be	less	active	in	muscle	cells	of	boys	as	
compared	 to	adults	(Eriksson	 et al.	1971,	1973,	Bell	 et al.	1980).	Taken	altogether,	 it	
appears	 that	there	is	a	disadvantage	 for	children	 to	compete	 in	prolonged	 strenuous	
events	that	are	glycogen	 dependent.	 Endurance	 capacity	 may	not	be	limited	by	the	
volume	 of	mitochondria	 in	children,	 as	Bell	 et al.	(1980)	reported	 a	similar	
mitochondrion-	 to-muscle	fiber	ratio	in	prepubertal	and	adult	muscle	tissues.
Carbohydrate ingestion during exercise
Carbohydrate	 feeding	during	exercise	 has	been	extensively	 studied	in	order	to	find	solu-
tions	to	spare	muscle	glycogen,	 maintain	 a	high	rate	of	carbohydrate	 oxidation	 and	
reduce	or	delay	fatigue.	CHO	ingested	 can	represent	 a	substantial	 source	of	energy.	
Riddell	 et al.	(2001)	have	shown	that	the	intermittent	 ingestion	 of	a	solution	 of	glucose	
and	fructose	 during	a	90-minute	 cycling	exercise	 at	55	percent	VO2max,	followed	 by	a	
test	at	90	percent	VO2max	until	exhaustion,	 was	associated	 with	a	mean	time	to	exhaus-
tion	of	202	seconds	when	children	 were	fed,	whereas	 it	was	only	142	seconds	when	chil-
dren	drank	only	water.	In	fact,	perhaps	 due	to	their	lower	endogenous	 glycogen	 stores,	
carbohydrate	 feeding	during	exercise	 in	children	 may	be	of	more	benefit	to	children	
than	to	mature	subjects.	 Timmons	 et al.	(2003)	have	shown	that	during	a	60-minute	
cycling	exercise	 at	70	percent	 VO2max,	exogenous	 glucose	contributed	 22	percent	 of	
total	energy	expenditure	 in	children	 and	15	percent	in	adults.	In	theory,	this	increase	 in	
energy	contribution	 from	carbohydrate	 feeding	should	lead	to	a	greater	improvement	 in	
performance.
Nutritional considerations
The	amount	of	energy	and	protein	needed	per	kg	of	body	mass	decreases	 with	age,	but	
the	total	amount	 of	each	increases	 as	body	size	increases.	 For	example,	 the	average	
2-year-	old	needs	about	1000	kcal	and	13	grams	of	protein	per	day.	By	age	6,	that	child	
will	need	about	1600	kcal	and	19	grams	of	protein	per	day	(Institute	 of	Medicine,	 Food	
and	Nutrition	 Board	2002).	Energy	and	protein	needs	increase	 during	childhood	 owing	
to	periods	of	rapid	growth	and	the	formation	 of	muscle,	blood,	and	bone,	which	require	
high	levels	of	anabolic	 metabolism.	 Those	needs	will	be	even	greater	for	physically	 active	
children.	 Appendix	 D	provides	 formulas	 that	may	be	used	to	estimate	 a	child’s	energy	

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		297
needs	for	proper	growth	and	development.	 These	formulas	 take	body	mass,	height,	and	
activity	levels	into	account.
	 Carbohydrate	 recommendations	 for	children	 are	the	same	as	those	for	adults:	45	to	
65	percent	of	energy	intake.	As	in	the	adult	diet,	most	of	the	carbohydrate	 in	a	child’s	
diet	should	be	from	wholegrains,	 fruits,	and	vegetables.	 These	will	provide	the	recom-
mended	 amount	of	fiber.	For	children,	 an	adequate	 level	has	been	established	 based	on	
data	that	show	an	intake	of	14	grams	of	fiber	per	1000	kcal	reduces	 the	risk	of	heart	
disease.	Infants	need	a	high-	fat	diet	(40	to	55	percent	of	energy	intake)	to	support	their	
rapid	growth	and	development,	 but	by	age	4	the	recommended	 proportion	 of	kcal	from	
fat	is	reduced	 to	provide	 adequate	 energy	without	increasing	 the	risk	for	developing	
chronic	disease.	The	acceptable	 range	for	fat	intake	is	30	to	40	percent	of	energy	intake	
for	children	 aged	1	to	3	years	and	25	to	35	percent	of	energy	for	those	aged	4	through	
18	years	compared	 to	20	to	35	percent	for	adults	(Institute	 of	Medicine,	 Food	and	Nutri-
tion	Board,	2002).	The	diets	of	children	 over	the	age	of	3	should	also	be	low	in	choles-
terol,	saturate	fat,	and	trans-	 fat	to	reduce	the	risk	for	developing	heart	diseases.
	 Children	 and	adolescents	 are	smaller	than	adults,	and	for	the	most	part	the	recom-
mended	 amounts	 of	micronutrients	 are	also	smaller.	Generally,	 a	well-	planned	 diet	that	
follows	the	professional	 recommendations	 for	children	 will	meet	needs.	For	example,	
consuming	 the	recommended	 amount	 of	meats	and	wholegrains	 helps	ensure	enough	
vitamin	Bs.	Adequate	 consumption	 of	fruits	and	vegetables	 provides	 sufficient	 vitamin	C	
and	vitamin	A.	Milk	and	dairy	products	 provide	calcium	and	vitamin	D	and	vitamin	A.	
Fortified	 breakfast	 cereals	help	compensate	 for	poorer	diets	by	providing	 the	recom-
mended	 amounts	 of	a	variety	of	micronutrients	 in	a	single	serving.	It	must	be	noted	that	
despite	the	relative	abundance	 of	nutrients	 in	modern	 diets,	many	children	 are	still	at	
risk	for	deficiencies	of	calcium,	vitamin	D,	and	iron	due	to	poor	food	choices.
Insulin resistance
Insulin	is	an	anabolic	 hormone	 that	promotes	 cellular	glucose	uptake	and	synthesis	 of	
glycogen	 and	triglycerides.	 Insulin	resistance	 is	defined	as	the	decreased	 ability	of	insulin	
to	stimulate	 cellular	glucose	uptake	and	storage	and	to	suppress	 hepatic	glucose	produc-
tion.	This	condition	 is	also	associated	 with	the	reduced	 ability	of	insulin	to	suppress	 fat	
mobilization	 and	thus	increase	 levels	of	circulating	 fatty	acids.	Insulin	resistance	 is	an	
important	 feature	of	non-	insulin-dependent	 or	type	2	diabetes,	 but	it	may	also	occur	in	
individuals	 without	type	2	diabetes,	 most	of	whom	are	obese.	There	is	a	strong	correla-
tion	between	 central obesity 	and	insulin	resistance.	 Central	obesity	is	when	excessive	 fat	
around	the	stomach	 and	abdomen	 builds	up	to	the	extent	that	it	is	likely	to	have	a	neg-
ative	impact	upon	health.	In	addition	 to	obesity,	insulin	resistance	 has	also	been	linked	
to	physical	inactivity,	poor	diet,	and	oxidative	stress.
Testing for insulin resistance
Insulin	resistance	 may	be	assessed	 by	using	an	oral	glucose	tolerance	 test.	In	this	test,	75	
to	100	g	of	glucose	in	water	is	given	orally	to	a	fasting	subject.	Blood	levels	of	glucose	and	
insulin	are	subsequently	 measured	 at	intervals	 of	two	to	three	hours.	During	this	meas-
urement	 period,	the	blood	level	of	glucose	rises	initially	and	then	falls	due	to	the	action	
of	insulin	(Figure 	12.3). 	The	response	 curve	for	the	blood	level	of	insulin	generally	
follows	a	similar	but	lagging	time	course.	Insulin	resistance	 is	therefore	 judged	from	the	
insulin	response	 compared	 to	the	glucose	response.	 Those	who	demonstrate	 a	high	
insulin	response	 in	the	face	of	a	normal	or	high	glucose	response	 will	be	considered	
insensitive	 to	insulin	or	insulin	resistant.	 Although	 simplistic,	 this	technique	 has	its	

298		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
weakness	 in	that	it	is	difficult	to	interpret	 because	blood	glucose	concentration	 depends	
not	only	on	insulin	sensitivity	 of	the	liver	and	peripheral	 tissues,	but	also	on	many	other	
factors,	such	as	glucose	absorption,	 insulin	secretion,	 and	insulin	clearance.	 In	this	test,	
concentrations	 of	glucose	and	insulin	are	mutually	 interrelated,	 and	changes	 in	one	vari-
able	can	simultaneously	 result	in	changes	 in	the	other,	and	vice	versa.	Thus,	a	causal	
effect	of	insulin	on	glucose	metabolism	 cannot	be	determined	 at	least	in	a	sequential	
manner.
	 The	shortcomings	 associated	 with	the	oral	glucose	tolerance	 test	have	promoted	 the	
development	 of	a	more	precise	but	invasive	 technique	 called	a	euglycemic, hyper­
insulinemic glucose clamp 	(DeFronzo	 et al.	1979).	With	this	technique,	 blood	glucose	
concentration	 is	kept	constant	 by	glucose	 infusion	 that	is	regulated	 according	 to	
repeated,	 rapid	blood	glucose	measurement.	 The	blood	insulin	concentration	 is	initially	
raised	and	then	maintained	 constant	 via	a	prime-	continuous	 infusion	 of	insulin.	Under	
these	steady-	state	conditions	 of	euglycemia	 and	hyperinsulinemia,	 the	glucose	infusion	
rate	equals	to	glucose	disposal	 or	uptake	by	the	cell,	which	may	then	be	used	to	deter-
mine	the	severity	of	insulin	resistance.	 This	technique,	 if	conducted	 in	conjunction	 with	
indirect	 calorimetry	 or	isotopic	 tracing	technique,	 can	also	allow	for	partitioning	 the	
amount	of	glucose	taken	up	by	tissues	into	those	being	oxidized	 and	those	being	stored.	
Such	information	 is	valuable	 in	exploring	 cellular	mechanisms	 that	account	 for	insulin	
resistance.	 The	glucose	clamp	technique	 has	been	widely	used	in	most	clinical	studies	
designed	 to	investigate	 glucose	metabolism	 at	a	given	insulin	concentration.	 With	the	180
03 06 0 12090
Time (min)180Insulin resistant
Normal
150Plasma glucose (mg/1000  ml)
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
120
03 06 0 120 90
Time (min)180Insulin resistant
Normal
150Plasma insulin (�U/ml)100
80
60
40
20
0
Figure 12.3 		Sample	 plasma	glucose	 and	insulin	responses	 during	a	three-hour	 oral	
glucose	tolerance	test	before	and	after	aerobic	training

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		299
use	of	multiple	 levels	of	insulin	concentration,	 it	becomes	 possible	 to	generate	 a	dose–
response	 relation	between	 insulin	concentration	 and	its	effect	on	glucose	disposal,	 which	
allows	for	a	more	complete	 examination	 of	insulin	action	(Figure 	12.4). 	Two	terms	have	
been	derived	as	a	result	of	this	analytic	approach:	 insulin sensitivity  and insulin respon­
siveness.	Increased	 insulin	sensitivity	 is	defined	as	a	reduction	 in	the	insulin	concentra -
tion	that	produces	 half	of	the	maximal	 response,	 whereas	 increased	 insulin	
responsiveness	is	defined	as	an	increase	in	the	maximal	response	to	insulin.
Insulin resistance and body fat distribution
Insulin	resistance	 is	associated	 not	only	with	the	overall	accumulation	 of	fat	in	the	body,	
but	also	how	the	body	fat	is	distributed.	 There	is	considerable	 evidence	 suggesting	 that	
excess	accumulation	 of	fat	in	the	upper	body,	or	truncal	region,	is	a	strong	predictor	 of	
insulin	resistance.	 For	example,	 Banerji	 et al.	(1995)	observed	 that	variance	 in	visceral 
adiposity	 accounted	 for	much	of	the	inter-	individual	 variation	 in	insulin	resistance	
among	individuals	 with	type	2	diabetes.	 In	addition,	 a	weight	loss	intervention	 study	con-
ducted	by	Goodpaster	 et al.	(1999)	revealed	 that	among	non-	diabetic	obese	subjects,	 the	
decrease	 in	visceral	adiposity	 was	the	body	composition	 change	that	best	predicted	 the	
improvement	 in	insulin	sensitivity	 following	 weight	loss.	Such	a	distinctive	 role	of	dif-
ferent	patterns	 of	fat	distribution	 is	also	supported	 by	several	 in vitro	studies	that	have	
examined	 metabolic	 heterogeneity	 of	adipose	tissue	(Richelsen	 et al.	1991,	Jansson	 et al.	
1990).	The	general	experimental	 approach	 of	these	studies	was	to	isolate	adipose	tissue	
from	abdominal	 and	lower	body	 subcutaneous 	regions	so	that	the	lipolytic	 activity	of	
adipose	 tissue	may	be	compared	 between	 the	two	regions.	 Collectively,	 these	studies	
revealed	 that	adipose	tissue	from	the	abdominal	 region	is	metabolically	 more	active	and	
has	a	greater	tendency	 to	be	broken	down	into	free	fatty	acids.	As	free	fatty	acids	formed	
due	to	lipolysis	in	this	central	region	are	directly	released	 into	the	portal	circulation,	 it	is	
considered	 that	in	those	with	central	obesity,	their	liver	may	have	been	exposed	 to	high	
concentration	 of	free	fatty	acids,	which	can	ultimately	 decrease	 hepatic	insulin	sensit-
ivity.	An	excess	of	fatty	acids	in	the	systemic	 circulation	 derived	from	the	abdominal	Effect (percent)100Responsiveness
Sensitivity
Hormone concentration50
Figure 12.4 		Hypothetical	 dose–response	 relation	between	 hormone	 concentration	 and	its	
biological	 effect.	Insulin	responsiveness	 is	the	maximal	 response	 of	glucose	dis-
posal.	Insulin	sensitivity 	is	the	hormone 	concentration 	eliciting	half	of	the	
responsiveness

300		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
region	may	also	inhibit	skeletal	muscle	glucose	metabolism	 according	 to	Randle	 et al.	
(1963),	and	this	has	been	considered	 a	cause	of	insulin	resistance	 manifested	 in	the	
peripheral	region	such	as	skeletal	muscle.
	 There	 are	other	mechanisms	 proposed	 that	link	abdominal	 obesity	with	insulin	resist-
ance.	The	recognition	 of	adipose	tissue	as	a	major	secretory	 organ	has	led	to	the	sugges-
tion	that	visceral	fat	may	release	some	factor	that	leads	to	systemic	 disturbances	 in	
metabolism.	 For	example,	 it	has	been	found	that	less	leptin	is	secreted	 by	visceral	than	
by	subcutaneous	 adipose	tissue	(Montague	 et al.	1998,	Van	Harmelen	 et al.	1998).	 Leptin  
is	a	satiety	hormone	 that	inhibits	energy	intake	if	fat	tissue	enlarges.	 If	fat	is	deposited	
more	in	visceral	than	in	subcutaneous	 depots,	it	could	be	argued	that	the	lower	leptin	
secretion	 from	the	visceral	fat	will	lead	to	less	effective	 responses	 to	weight	gain.	Con-
sequently,	 this	may	have	some	impact	on	insulin	resistance.	 Visceral	 adipose	tissue	has	
also	been	found	to	secrete	a	number	 of	cytokines,	 including	 interleukin-	 6	(IL-	6)	that	are	
pro-	inflammatory	 (Mohamed-	 Ali	et al.	1998).	It	is	believed	 that	these	substances	 via	their	
entry	into	the	portal	vein	can	particularly	 impair	the	metabolic	 function	 of	the	liver	and	
other	surrounding	tissues,	thereby	resulting	in	insulin	resistance	(Frayn	2000).
	 Subcutaneous	 adipose	tissue	in	the	legs	is	generally	 regarded	 as	a	relatively	 weak	marker	
of	insulin	resistance.	 However,	 there	are	a	growing	number	of	studies	that	have	attempted 	
to	examine	 the	impact	of	peripheral	 adiposity	 on	insulin	resistance.	 Goodpaster	 et al.	(2000)	
used	computed 	tomography 	imaging	to	measure	the	quantity	and	distribution 	of	adipose	
tissue	in	the	thigh.	Via	a	novel	approach	 of	subdividing	 adipose	tissue	into	that	present	
above	the	fascia	lata	(termed	subcutaneous	 adipose	tissue)	and	that	present	below	the	fascia	
lata	(termed	 subfascial	 adipose	tissue),	these	authors	observed	 that	variance	 in	the	amount	
of	adipose	tissue	beneath	muscle	fascia	correlated	 with	insulin	resistance,	 whereas	no	corre-
lation	was	found	between	 insulin	sensitivity	 and	the	subcutaneous	 adiposity	 of	the	legs.	
These	findings	suggest	that	the	amount	of	fat	contained	 beneath	the	fascia	as	well	as	within	
the	muscle	tissue	in	the	lower	extremities	is	a	key	determinant	of	insulin	resistance.
Effect of insulin resistance on glucose and fat utilization
Numerous	 studies	have	been	conducted	 to	examine	 mechanisms	 underlying	 the	impair-
ment	in	insulin-	mediated	 glucose	 utilization	 seen	in	obese	and	NIDDM	 individuals.	
These	studies	have	generally	 used	the	glucose	clamp	technique	 in	conjunction	 with	
muscle	sampling,	 indirect	 calroimetry,	 and/or	the	isotope	tracer	method	 so	that	meta-
bolic	fats	of	glucose	taken	by	the	skeletal	muscle	may	be	further	divided	into	glucose	
oxidation,	 glucose	 storage,	 and	non-	oxidized	 glycolysis.	 This	experimental	 approach	
allows	the	examination	 of	mechanisms	 responsible	 for	insulin	resistance	 at	the	cellular	
level.	An	early	study	by	DeFronzo	 et al.	(1985)	revealed	 an	approximately	 45	percent	
reduction	 in	insulin-	stimulated	 leg	glucose	uptake	in	non-	obese	diabetic	 subjects.	 Using	
obese	diabetic	 subjects,	 Kelley	 et al.	(1992)	observed	 a	60	percent	decrement	 in	insulin-	
stimulated	 leg	glucose	uptake.	Of	this	deficit	of	glucose	uptake,	66	percent	was	due	to	
decreased	 leg	glucose	storage,	whereas	 33	percent	was	due	to	decreased	 leg	glucose	oxi-
dation.	This	finding,	 together	 with	the	fact	that	these	patients	 had	a	lower	than	normal	
activities	 of	glycogen	 synthase	 (Kelley	 et al.	1992),	suggests	 that	the	reduced	 insulin-	
mediated	 glucose	uptake	can	be	attributed	 mainly	to	a	decreased	 leg	glucose	storage.	It	
is	now	widely	believed	 that	glycogen	 synthesis	 is	the	metabolic	 pathway	 in	skeletal	muscle	
most	severely	 affected	 by	insulin	resistance	 and	is	primarily	 responsible	 for	decreased	
rates	of	glucose	utilization.	 From	a	practical	 standpoint,	 individuals	 with	obesity	and	
NIDDM	 are	at	disadvantage	 with	regard	to	physical	 activity	due	to	insulin	resistance	 and	
its	associated	 reduction	 in	glycogen	 storage.	These	individuals	 may	avoid	performing	 sus-
tained	strenuous	exercise	that	depends	heavily	on	muscle	glycogen	as	source	of	energy.

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		301
	 Reduced	 muscle	glycogen	 content	will	lead	to	an	increase	 in	fat	utilization	 in	order	to	
maintain	 adequate	 energy	supply.	This	homeostatic	 adaptation	 has	been	well	docu-
mented	in	healthy	individuals.	 However,	 recent	studies	have	suggested	 that	the	skeletal	
muscle	in	those	with	insulin	resistance	 were	unable	to	make	such	a	switch	easily	from	
carbohydrate	 to	fat	utilization	 (Kelley	2005).	In	other	words,	as	a	result	of	insulin	resist-
ance	fat	utilization	 is	also	lower	in	addition	 to	impaired	 glucose	metabolism.	 This	con-
clusion	was	derived	from	observations	 that	during	fasting	conditions	 respiratory	 quotient	
(RQ)	across	the	tissue	bed	of	the	leg	was	comparatively	 higher	in	people	who	were	obese	
and	insulin	resistant	 than	in	metabolically	 healthy	individuals.	 As	mentioned	 earlier,	a	
high	RQ	represents	 a	greater	reliance	 on	carbohydrate	 oxidation.	 Recently,	 Ukropcova	
et al.	(2005)	found	that	fat	oxidation	 of	skeletal	 muscle	increased	 in	subjects	 with	
improved	 insulin	sensitivity,	 leanness,	 and	aerobic	fitness.	An	inability	 to	increase	 the	
reliance	 upon	fat	oxidation	 in	the	face	of	a	reduced	 muscle	glycogen	 has	been	termed	
metabolic inflexibility .	As	shown	in	Figure	12.5,	healthy 	individuals	 use	predominantly	
fat	as	a	source	of	energy	during	fasting,	but	are	able	to	shift	efficiently	 to	glucose	oxida-
tion	upon	insulin	stimulation.	 However,	 those	with	obesity	and	NIDDM	 demonstrate	 a	
constrained	 adjustment	 to	the	transition	 between	 fasting	and	insulin-	stimulation	 con-
ditions.	Their	metabolic	 responses	 are	blunted	 in	terms	of	fat	utilization	 during	fasting	
and	carbohydrate	 utilization	 upon	insulin	stimulation.	 The	phenomenon	 of	metabolic	
inflexibility	 emphasizes	 the	importance	 of	physical	 activity	being	a	part	of	intervention	
for	treating	 obesity	and	NIDDM.	 As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	9, 	regular	aerobic	exercise	
training	 will	increase	 the	ability	of	skeletal	muscle	to	oxidize	fat	and	thus	delay	the	con-
sumption	of	glycogen.
Role of exercise in improving insulin sensitivity
Exercise	 can	produce	 many	favorable	 responses	 with	respect	to	carbohydrate	 and	fat	
metabolism.	 For	example,	 glucose	uptake	by	peripheral	 tissues	such	as	muscle	increases	
Lean and fit
Fasting:
• Increased fa t
 oxidation
• Decreased
 glucose
 oxidationFasting:
• Less increased
 fat oxidation
• Less
 decreased
 glucose oxidationInsulinstimulated:
• Suppressed fa t
 oxidation
• Enhanced
 glucose
 oxidationInsulinstimulated:
• Less
 suppressed fa t
 oxidation
• Less enhanced
 glucose
 oxidationObese and unfit
Figure 12.5 	Schematics	of	metabolic	inflexibility	associated	with	insulin	resistance
Source:	adapted	from	Kelley	(2005).

302		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
during	exercise.	 Such	an	increase	 in	glucose	uptake	helps	correct	hyperglycemia.	 Exer-
cise	also	allows	a	greater	utilization	 of	fatty	acids	and	thus	is	considered	 a	relatively	 viable	
option	for	reversing	 insulin	resistance.	 Because	 of	these	beneficial	 patterns	 of	metabo-
lism	which	clearly	suggest	the	potential	 of	exercise	 in	treating	 or	preventing	 metabolic	
diseases,	 there	has	been	a	growing	 stream	of	research	 that	has	attempted	 to	directly	
examine	 both	the	acute	and	chronic	effects	exercise	 has	on	improving	 tissue’s	sensitivity	
to	insulin.
Acute improvement in insulin- mediated glucose disposal
The	impact	of	prior	aerobic	exercise	 upon	subsequent	 insulin	sensitivity	 or	insulin-	
mediated	 glucose	disposal	 has	been	typically	 examined	 using	the	euglycemic	 hyperin-
sulinemic	 glucose	clamp.	This	procedure	 is	often	performed	 during	the	recovery	 period	
in	order	to	examine	 the	acute	effect	of	prior	exercise,	 although	 in	some	studies	it	
occurred	 in	the	next	day	or	so.	With	the	selection	 of	multiple	 levels	of	insulin	to	be	
infused,	 a	dose–response	 curve	can	be	generated	 between	 insulin	concentrations	 and	its	
resultant	 rates	of	glucose	disposal	 in	order	to	assess	insulin	sensitivity.	 It	has	been	well	
documented	 that	in	healthy	humans,	 insulin-	mediated	 whole-	body	glucose	disposal	 was	
increased	 following	 an	acute	bout	of	exercise	 and	this	improved	 insulin	action	remained	
for	as	long	as	48	hours	(Mikines	 et al.	1988,	Richter	 et al.	1989).	The	improved	 insulin	
action	following	 an	acute	bout	of	exercise	 has	also	been	demonstrated	 in	patients	 with	
NIDDM	 and	obesity	(Devlin	and	Horton	1985,	Devlin	 et al.	1987,	Burstein	 et al.	1990).	
These	findings	clearly	support	the	use	of	aerobic	exercise	in	treating	insulin	resistance.
	 Some	 of	the	aforementioned	 studies	have	used	the	clamp	technique	 combined	 with	
indirect	calorimetry	 and	the	isotopic	tracer	technique	 in	an	effort	to	delineate	 the	meta-
bolic	fate	of	enhanced	 glucose	uptake	(Devlin	and	Horton	1985,	Devlin	 et al.	1987).	It	
was	found	that	the	exercise-	 induced	 improvement	 in	insulin-	mediated	 glucose	disposal	
can	be	largely	explained	 by	an	increase	 in	glucose	storage	as	glycogen.	 A	handful	 of	
studies	of	both	animals	and	humans	 also	revealed	 an	increase	 in	glycogen	 synthase	 and	
hexokinase	 during	exercise	 recovery.	 Collectively,	 it	is	plausible	 to	conclude	 that	glyco-
gen	formation	 is	an	ultimate	 destination	 for	the	augmented	 glucose	taken	up	by	muscle	
following	exercise.
	 The	improved	 insulin	action	following	 exercise	 may	also	be	ascribed	 to	an	augmented	
glucose	transport	 across	the	cell	membrane.	 Glucose	transport	 into	tissues	is	achieved	 by	
the	action	of	protein	molecules	 called	glucose	transporters.	 As	mentioned	 earlier,	a	
number	 of	different	 glucose	transport	 proteins	 have	been	identified	 and	they	are	mani-
fested	in	a	variety	of	different	 tissues.	GLUT	4	is	the	form	of	transporter	 found	in	skele-
tal	muscle	and	adipose	tissues.	In	a	series	of	experiments	 using	diabetic	 rats,	Richter	 et 
al.	(1982,	1984,	1985)	found	an	acute	increase	 in	glucose	transport	 following	 exercise.	
In	these	studies,	glucose	transport	 was	determined	 by	quantifying	 how	much	of	the	spe-
cially	marked	glucose	(i.e.,	3-O-	methylglucose)	 entered	the	muscle	cell.	Ren	 et al.	(1994)	
also	observed	 an	increase	 in	GLUT	4	expression	 along	with	an	improved	 insulin	stimu-
lated	glycogen	 storage	in	rat	muscle	following	 prolonged	 swimming.	 It	appears	that	the	
improvement	 in	insulin	action	occurs	primarily	 in	exercising	 muscle.	Since	exercise	 is	
also	accompanied	 by	major	cardiovascular	 and	hormonal	 changes,	 it	is	possible	 that	
insulin	action	is	also	affected	 in	tissues	other	than	muscles.	 Recent	studies	have	shown	
that	the	liver,	like	muscle,	becomes	 more	insulin	sensitive	 following	 exercise	 (Pencek	 et 
al.	2003).	Like	muscle,	a	major	portion	of	glucose	taken	up	by	the	liver	is	also	channeled	
into	liver	glycogen	synthesis	(Hamilton	 et al.	1996).
	 As	glycogen	 synthesis	 represents	 a	major	metabolic	 fate	for	enhanced	 glucose	uptake,	
it	may	be	speculated	 that	the	greater	the	depletion	 of	glycogen	 during	prior	exercise,	

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		303
the	greater	the	improvement	 in	insulin	sensitivity	 following	 exercise.	 However,	 this	hypo-
thesis	remains	 questionable.	 It	has	been	found	that	improved	 insulin	effect	on	glucose	
uptake	can	persist	even	when	pre-	exercise	 glycogen	 levels	have	been	restored	 (Hamilton	
et al.	1996,	Richter	1996).	This	finding	suggests	 that	this	exercise	 benefit	is	not	neces-
sarily	dependent	 on	glycogen	 depletion.	 On	the	other	hand,	there	are	several	lines	of	
research	 that	appear	to	support	this	hypothesis.	 For	example,	 Bogardus	 et al.	(1983)	and	
Ivy	et al.	(1985)	found	an	inverse	relation	 between	 insulin	sensitivity	 and	muscle	glyco-
gen	content	following	 a	single	bout	of	exercise.	 Using	a	glucose	tolerance	 test,	Kang	 et 
al.	(1996)	also	reported	 improved	 insulin	action	following	 exercise	 at	70	percent	but	not	
50	percent	VO2max.	It	may	be	safe	to	suggest	that	if	an	exercise	 program	 is	prescribed	
with	a	goal	of	improving	 insulin	sensitivity,	 then	this	program	 should	entail	at	least	some	
component	of	vigorous	exercise.
Chronic changes resulting from physical training
Physical	 training	 consists	of	repeated	 bouts	of	acute	exercise.	 With	the	use	of	an	oral	
glucose	 tolerance	 test,	studies	that	compare	 trained	and	untrained	 individuals	 have	
shown	that	trained	individuals	 are	better	able	to	tolerate	glucose	and	are	more	sensitive	
to	insulin	(King	 et al.	1987,	Heath	 et al.	1983,	Seals	 et al.	1984).	This	benefit	associated	
with	training	 was	also	agreed	by	studies	using	the	hyperinsulinemic	 glucose	clamp	tech-
nique,	although	 it	is	of	interest	that	these	studies	demonstrated	 an	improved	 insulin	
responsiveness,	 but	not	insulin	sensitivity	 (Mikines	 et al.	1989a,	1989b).	Remember	 that	
insulin	responsiveness	 represents	 the	maximal	 ability	of	the	whole	body	to	handle	
glucose	and	as	such	an	improvement	 in	this	measure	 may	be	owing	to	wider	changes	
that	occur	not	only	in	skeletal	muscle,	but	also	in	the	liver,	adipose	tissue,	and	pancreas.	
Exercise	training	has	been	found	to	increase	muscle	GLUT	4	expression	(Lee	 et al.	2002,	
Terada et al.	2001).	This	increase	 in	GLUT	4	may	have	contributed	 to	the	enhanced	
capacity	 for	insulin-	stimulated	 glucose	disposal	 in	trained	subjects.	 The	training-	induced	
improvement	 in	insulin	action	may	also	be	due	to	the	fact	that	trained	subjects	are	able	
to	utilize	more	of	their	fat	energy	sources.	 This	augmented	 fat	utilization	 may	be	in	part	
because	 of	increased	 lipolysis.	 It	was	found	that	training	 can	make	adipose	tissue	more	
sensitive	 to	adrenergic	 stimulation	 (Izawa	 et al.	1991).	As	discussed	 earlier,	insulin	resist-
ance	is	linked	to	abdominal	 obesity	as	well	as	to	an	excess	accumulation	 of	intramuscular	
triglyceride.	 It	was	also	found	that	training	 would	result	in	a	decrease	 in	the	mRNA	for	
proinsulin	 and	glucokinase	 in	the	pancreas	 (Koranyi	 et al.	1991).	A	reduction	 in	these	
protein	molecules	 suggests	 a	decreased	 insulin	secretion	 at	a	given	level	of	blood	glucose	
concentration.
Nutrition considerations
The	primary	 cause	of	insulin	resistance	 is	excess	body	weight,	especially	 excess	fat	
around	the	waist.	Fortunately,	 weight	loss	can	help	the	body	respond	 better	to	insulin.	
Research	 indicates	 that	people	with	insulin	resistance	 and	prediabetes	 can	often	prevent	
or	delay	developing	 diabetes	 by	normalizing	 their	body	weight	and	body	composition.	
Various	dietary	interventions	 aimed	to	reduce	dietary	intake	and	to	achieve	a	negative	
caloric	balance	are	discussed	 in	Chapter 	15 	which	deals	with	energy	balance	and	weight	
control.	 Another	 important	 approach	 to	reversing	 insulin	resistance	 is	to	control	blood	
glucose	concentrations	 by	restricting	 their	carbohydrate	 intake.	Readers	 are	referred	 to	
the	following	 section	in	which	more	specific	dietary	recommendations	 aimed	to	treat	or	
prevent	diabetes	are	provided.

304		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
Diabetes mellitus
Diabetes	 mellitus	 is	defined	 as	abnormally	 high	levels	of	blood	glucose	 due	to	the	
inability	 to	manufacture	 or	respond	 to	insulin.	Worldwide,	 100	to	120	million	people	
have	this	chronic	 condition.	 In	the	US,	its	prevalence	 currently	 stands	at	about	16	
million	people,	nearly	half	of	whom	do	not	yet	know	they	have	the	disease.
Insulin- dependent and non- insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
The	major	types	of	diabetes	 are	insulin-	dependent	 diabetes	 mellitus	 (IDDM)	 and	non-	
insulin-dependent	 diabetes	 mellitus	(NIDDM).	 IDDM,	also	called	type	1	diabetes,	 usually	
emerges	 before	the	age	of	30,	and	tends	to	come	on	suddenly.	 NIDDM,	 also	referred	 to	
as	type	2	diabetes,	 is	far	more	common	 than	IDDM.	It	usually	starts	after	the	age	of	30,	
and	the	majority	 of	those	who	have	the	disease	are	obese.	Recently,	 there	has	been	a	
steady	increase	 in	cases	in	which	those	who	are	younger	 (<30	years	of	age)	are	also	diag-
nosed	with	NIDDM,	 particularly	 if	they	are	overweight.	 The	onset	of	NIDDM	 tends	to	be	
more	gradual	than	that	of	IDDM,	and	blood	glucose	levels	remain	more	stable.
	 IDDM	 is	an	autoimmune	 disease	in	which	the	body	produces	 antibodies	 that	attack	
and	damage	 the	pancreatic	 beta	cells.	At	first,	the	ability	of	the	beta	cells	to	secrete	
insulin	is	merely	impaired,	 but	usually	within	a	year	or	so	these	cells	stop	producing	 or	
produce	 little	insulin.	People	with	IDDM	must	inject	insulin	daily	as	their	function	 of	
body	tissues	in	responding	 to	insulin	remains	normal.	Although	 heredity	 plays	some	role	
in	IDDM,	there	is	no	known	family	history	of	diabetes	in	most	cases.
	 NIDDM,	 on	the	other	hand,	begins	with	the	impairment	 of	the	body’s	tissues	in	
responding	 to	insulin.	Therefore,	 in	order	to	get	cells	the	glucose	they	need,	the	beta	
cells	must	increase	 their	production	 of	insulin.	Diabetes	 results	when	the	beta	cells	are	
unable	to	secrete	enough	 extra	insulin	to	overcome	 the	tissue’s	resistance	 to	insulin.	
Most	people	with	NIDDM	can	be	treated	with	oral	drugs	aimed	to	improve	 insulin	sensit-
ivity	or	simply	with	lifestyle	 intervention	 that	promotes	 weight	loss.	About	30	to	40	
percent	 of	NIDDM	 patients	 need	insulin	to	achieve	adequate	 control	of	their	blood	
glucose.	 Heredity	 plays	an	important	 role	in	NIDDM	 and	those	with	NIDDM	 are	highly	
probable	to	have	at	least	one	relative	with	diabetes.
Cellular defects in glucose metabolism
Diabetes	 is	regarded	 as	a	metabolic	 disorder	 in	that	it	impairs	the	way	the	body	utilizes	
glucose	due	to	a	deficiency	 of	insulin.	Each	cell	needs	a	regular	supply	of	glucose.	 The	
cells	absorb	glucose	from	the	blood	and	use	some	of	it	immediately	 for	various	meta-
bolic	functions.	 The	rest	of	the	glucose	is	converted	 into	glycogen	 in	the	liver	and	
muscles	and	stored	there	for	future	use.	However,	 the	body’s	ability	to	store	glycogen	 is	
limited,	and	glucose	that	is	not	used	immediately	 or	stored	as	glycogen	 will	be	converted	
into	triglycerides	 stored	in	adipose	tissue.	Insulin	is	the	key	regulator	 of	glucose	in	the	
body.	As	blood	glucose	levels	rise	such	as	after	a	meal,	the	pancreas	 produces	 insulin,	
which	is	then	transported	 via	circulation	 to	target	organs	such	as	the	muscles	and	liver.	
Insulin	then	attaches	 to	sites	on	the	surface	of	cells	called	receptors.	 Binding	 of	insulin	
to	these	receptors	 causes	carrier	proteins	 or	glucose transporters 	to	move	from	inside	
the	cell	to	the	cell’s	surface.	Glucose	 transporters	 travel	back	and	forth	across	the	cell	
membrane	 picking	up	glucose	from	the	blood	and	dropping	 it	off	inside	the	cell.	In	dia-
betes,	insufficient	 insulin	production	 or	tissues’	insensitivity	 to	insulin	results	in	elevated	
blood	glucose,	 which,	if	it	remains	 uncontrolled,	 can	cause	many	chronic	complications,	
including	cardiovascular	diseases,	kidney	damage,	neuropathy,	and	diabetic	foot.

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		305
	 Glucose	 transporters	 (GLUT)	 are	a	family	of	membrane	 proteins	 found	in	most	mam-
malian	cells	that	are	responsible	 for	transporting	 glucose	across	cell	membrane.	 There	
have	been	multiple	 isoforms	 of	glucose	transporter	 proteins	 (i.e.,	GLUT	1,	GLUT	2,	
GLUT	3,	GLUT	4,	etc.)	being	identified	 and	they	are	distributed	 differently	 throughout	
different	 body	tissues.	Much	of	the	research	 in	this	area	has	been	related	to	GLUT	4	in	
part	because	 they	are	found	primarily	 in	skeletal	muscle,	which	is	considered	 a	major	
depot	for	storing	carbohydrate.	 In	addition,	 unlike	other	glucose	transporters,	 the	func-
tion	of	GLUT	4	can	be	affected	by	insulin.	The	working	 mechanism	 of	glucose	transport -
ers	remains	 hypothetical	 at	this	point.	It	is	thought	 that	the	binding	 of	insulin	to	its	
receptors	 on	the	cell	membrane	 triggers	a	series	of	events	involving	 second	messengers	
that	lead	to	translocation	 of	GLUT	4	from	inside	the	cell	to	the	cell	surface.	 These	
GLUT	4	proteins	 then	bind	with	glucose	molecules,	 and	such	binding	 provokes	 a	con-
formational	 change	associated	 with	transport	 and	thus	releases	glucose	to	the	other	side	
of	the	membrane	(Hebert	and	Carruthers	1992,	Cloherty	 et al.	1995).
Metabolism during exercise
Exercise	 has	long	been	regarded	 as	a	beneficial	 treatment	 of	diabetes.	 However,	 it	is	only	
recently	 that	the	interaction	 between	 exercise	 and	these	metabolic	 disorders	 has	been	
studied	extensively.	 Research	 in	this	area	has	served	to	provide	inside	knowledge	 to	the	
unique	characteristics	 of	exercise	 responses	 related	to	these	metabolic	 disorders.	 This	
information	 will	ultimately	 help	in	developing	 an	effective	 exercise	 program	 aimed	at	
treating	or	preventing	diabetes.
Blood glucose
In	those	early	investigations	 that	used	patients	 with	IDDM,	it	was	generally	 found	that	
a	bout	of	aerobic	exercise	will	cause	a	fall	in	blood	glucose	to	a	normal	level	if	these	
patients	had	been	treated	regularly 	with	insulin	and	had	mild	hyperglycemia. 	This	
observation	 suggests	 that	regular	exercise	 training	 may	be	an	effective	 aid	to	glucose	
regulation. 	Plasma	glucose	concentration 	reflects	a	balance	between	glucose	uptake	
by	peripheral	 tissues,	mostly	muscles,	 and	glucose	production	 by	the	liver.	Wahren	 et 
al.	(1975)	found	that	in	insulin-	withdrawn 	diabetic	subjects, 	muscle	glucose	uptake	
was	greater,	 while	hepatic	glucose	production	 was	similar	as	compared	 to	healthy	con-
trols	during	exercise.	 According	 to	the	authors	 this	greater	glucose	 uptake	seen	in	
IDDM	was	primarily 	driven	by	the	mass	action	of	hyperglycemia. 	Consequently, 	more	
glucose	can	rush	into	tissue	due	to	greater	concentration	 gradients.	 In	these	patients, 	
it	is	the	lack	of	insulin	that	prevents	 their	tissues	from	drawing	 glucose	from	blood	
successfully.	 However,	 muscle	contraction	 can	allow	this	desired	response	 to	occur.	
The	glucose-	lowering	 effect	of	exercise,	 however,	 was	not	always	the	case	especially	 in	
patients	 with	more	severe	conditions	 of	IDDM.	It	was	found	that	patients	 with	more	
marked	hyperglycemia 	may	respond	to	exercise	with	a	further	rise	in	blood	glucose	
levels	(Wahren	 et al.	1978).
	 Within	 the	past	few	decades,	 considerable	 efforts	have	also	been	devoted	 to	examin-
ing	blood	glucose	responses	 during	exercise	 in	patients	with	NIDDM.	 The	favorable	 gly-
cemic	response	 as	seen	in	IDDM	was	also	observed	 in	NIDDM.	 In	addition,	 the	
mechanism	 underlying	 this	response	 appears	 to	be	similar.	Researchers	 have	observed	
that	in	NIDDM	 a	fall	in	blood	glucose	during	exercise	 was	accompanied	 by	increased	
peripheral	 glucose	 uptake,	 whereas	 hepatic	glucose	 production	 remained	 the	same	
between	 diabetics	 and	healthy	controls	 (Colberg	 et al.	1996,	Kang	 et al.	1999,	Martin	 et al.	
1995).	NIDDM	 is	characterized	 by	marked	 insulin	resistance	 in	skeletal	muscle.	 The	

306		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
greater	increase	 in	glucose	uptake	seen	in	NIDDM	 suggests	 that	insulin	resistance	 does	
not	substantially	 impede	the	cellular	uptake	of	blood	glucose	during	exercise.	 In	fact,	it	
seems	possible	 that	muscle	contraction	 abetted	by	the	hyperglycemia	 and	hyperinsuline -
mia	is	able	to	provide	an	additive	 or	synergistic	 effect	on	glucose	uptake.	This	conten-
tion	may	be	underscored	 by	the	findings	 of	DeFronzo	 et al.	(1981),	who	reported	 that	
exercise	 in	combination	 with	experimentally	 induced	 hyperinsulinemia	 produced	
glucose	 uptake	that	was	greater	than	that	following	 either	treatment	 alone	in	non-	
diabetic	individuals.
Muscle glycogen
Muscle	glycogen	 represents	 a	major	depot	of	energy	source	during	exercise	 and	its	utili-
zation	increases	 as	exercise	 intensity	 increases.	 Earlier	studies	using	IDDM	subjects	have	
shown	that	the	rates	of	glycogen	 utilization	 during	exercise	 are	no	different	 in	diabetics	
as	compared	 with	healthy	controls	 (Saltin	 et al.	1979,	Maehlum	 et al.	1977).	Furthermore,	
the	glycogen	 depletion	 pattern	in	the	different	 fiber	types	during	exercise	 is	also	similar	
in	diabetics	 and	healthy	controls	 (Saltin	 et al.	1979).	However,	 there	is	some	indirect	
evidence	 to	suggest	that	patients	with	IDDM	may	use	less	muscle	glycogen.	 This	conten-
tion	was	derived	from	the	observation	 that	diabetics	 had	reduced	 rates	of	total	carbo-
hydrate	oxidation	 concomitant	 with	increased	 rates	of	muscle	glucose	uptake	and	was	
based	on	the	assumption	 that	all	glucose	molecules	 taken	up	by	muscle	are	oxidized.	
Resynthesis	 of	muscle	glycogen	 during	post-	exercise	 recovery	 is	an	insulin-	dependent	
process.	 Maehlum	 et al.	(1977)	found	that	in	the	absence	 of	insulin	injection,	 muscle	
glycogen	 repletion	 during	recovery	 following	 exercise	 is	minimal	 in	diabetic	 patients,	
while	with	insulin,	the	rate	of	repletion	is	the	same	as	in	healthy	subjects.
	 The	reduced	ability	of	skeletal	muscle	to	use	glycogen 	during	exercise	has	been	more	
uniformly	 reported	 in	patients	with	NIDDM	 and	obesity	(Colberg	 et al.	1996,	Kang	 et al.	
1999,	Goodpaster	 et al.	2002).	By	having	three	groups	of	healthy,	obese,	and	NIDDM	sub-
jects	exercise	at	a	mild	intensity,	 Colberg	 et al.	(1996)	found	that	while	utilization	 of	glyco-
gen	was	lower	in	both	the	obese	and	NIDDM	groups,	it	was	only	half	as	much	in	NIDDM	as 	
compared	 with	that	in	healthy	controls.	 This	finding	was	confirmed	 by	Kang	 et al.	(1999)	
and	Goodpaster	 et al.	(2002)	who	used	patients	with	NIDDM	and	obesity,	respectively. 	To	
date,	it	remains	uncertain	 as	to	what	may	have	caused	this	reduced	 glycogen	 utilization	 to	
occur.	In	these	studies,	muscle	glycogen 	was	determined 	indirectly 	by	subtracting 	the	rate	
of	glucose	uptake	from	the	rate	of	total	carbohydrate 	oxidation 	and	a	decrease	in	muscle	
glycogen 	utilization 	was	accompanied 	by	an	increase	in	plasma	glucose	uptake.	In	this	
context,	it	is	possible	that	this	reduced	utilization 	of	muscle	glycogen 	may	be	secondary 	to	
a	compensatory	 response	 resulting	 from	greater	glucose	utilization.	 Both	NIDDM	 and	
obesity	have	been	associated	 with	lower	muscle	glycogen	 content.	 Therefore,	 it	is	also	likely	
that	the	reduced	 utilization	 of	muscle	glycogen	 during	exercise	may	be	brought	 about	by	
lower	muscle	glycogen	content	prior	to	exercise.
Fatty acids and triglycerides
Circulating	 fatty	acids	and	intramuscular	 triglycerides	 are	the	two	major	sources	of	fat	
energy	utilized	during	exercise.	 Studies	in	exercising	 men	have	estimated	 that	intramus -
cular	triglycerides	 generally	 contribute	 more	to	the	total	fat	oxidation	 than	circulating	
fatty	acids.	However,	 circulating	 fatty	acids	will	become	 more	important	 oxidative	 fuels	
during	prolonged	 exercise.	 The	relationship	 between	 intramuscular	 triglycerides	 and	
circulating	 fatty	acids	appears	to	resemble	 that	of	muscle	glycogen	 and	plasma	glucose;	
that	is,	while	the	intramuscular	 substrate	 stores	are	relatively	 more	important	 at	the	start	

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		307
of	the	work,	fuels	supplied	 via	blood	are	the	predominant	 substrates	 during	prolonged	
work.	In	patients	with	IDDM	in	which	insulin	is	completely	 absent,	Wahren	 et al.	(1984)	
found	a	greater	increase	 in	fat	oxidation	 during	exercise	 as	compared	 to	healthy	con-
trols.	These	authors	also	observed	 a	more	exaggerated	 exercise-	 induced	 rise	in	plasma	
norepinephrine.	 Norepinephrine	 is	a	lipolytic	 hormone	 that	helps	mobilize	 fatty	acids	
from	adipose	tissue.	In	this	regard,	it	is	thought	 that	the	increased	 fat	oxidation	 seen	in	
patients	with	IDDM	may	be	owing	to	increased	 lipolysis	occurring	 in	adipose	tissue.	The	
utilization	 of	intramuscular	 sources	of	triglycerides	 was	also	found	to	be	higher	in	a	dia-
betic	state.	This	finding	was	reported	 by	studies	using	both	IDDM	patients	 and	depan-
creatized	dogs	(Standl	 et al.	1980,	Issekutz	and	Paul	1968).
	 More	recently, 	greater	fat	oxidation 	was	also	reported 	during	exercise	in	patients	
with	NIDDM	 and	obesity	(Goodpaster	 et al.	2002,	Horowitz	 and	Klein	2000,	Blaak	 et al.	
2000).	However,	 this	increased	 fat	oxidation	 can	only	be	explained	 by	increased	 oxi-
dation	of	intramuscular 	triglycerides, 	because	oxidation 	of	blood-	borne	fatty	acids	was	
found	to	be	either	lower	or	the	same	in	NIDDM	 or	obese	patients	 as	compared	 to	
healthy	 controls.	 The	greater	utilization	 of	intramuscular	 sources	 of	fat	has	been	
attributed	 to	an	increased	 accumulation	 of	intramuscular	 triglycerides	 frequently 	
found	in	these	patients	 during	 post­ absorptive state  and considered a cause of insulin 
resistance.	 Post-	absorptive	 state	is	the	period	during	which	the	gastrointestinal	 tract,	
such	as	the	stomach	 and	small	intestine,	 is	empty	of	nutrients	 and	body	stores	must	
supply	the	required	 energy.	It	appears	 that	patients	 with	NIDDM	 or	obesity	are	gener-
ally	not	limited	in	their	ability	to	oxidize	fatty	acids	during	exercise,	 although	 they	
tend	to	accumulate	 excessive	 intramuscular	 triglycerides.	 Given	that	intramuscular 	
triglycerides	 have	been	related	to	insulin	resistance,	 exercise	 is	considered	 quite	ideal	
and	necessary	 for	these	patients	 in	that	it	can	help	stimulate	 a	greater	fat	utilization 	
and,	in	the	case	of	NIDDM	 and	obesity,	may	help	alleviate	 or	prevent	 insulin	resist-
ance.	Table 	12.7 	provides	 a	summary	 of	altered	carbohydrate	 and	fat	utilization	 in	
patients	with	IDDM	and	NIDDM.
Nutritional considerations
To	help	control	blood	glucose	levels,	people	with	diabetes	 should	consume	 meals	and	
snacks	at	regular	intervals	 each	day.	This	will	ensure	that	the	body	maintains	 a	consistent	
amount	 of	glucose	in	the	blood.	The	type	of	carbohydrate	 is	also	important.	 Complex	
carbohydrates	 are	better	than	simple	carbohydrates	 in	that	they	provide	 sustained	
energy.	Wholegrain	 products	 provide	more	nutrients	 and	fiber.	Wholegrain	 products	 as	
well	as	foods	rich	in	protein	and	fat	also	have	a	low	glycemic	 index	that	can	avoid	a	surge	
in	blood	glucose	levels	upon	consumption.	 Diabetes	 should	incorporate	 the	following	
tips	into	their	dietary	planning.
Table 12.7 		Substrate	 utilization	 during	aerobic	exercise	 in	patients	with	IDDM	and	NIDDM	as	
compared	to	healthy	controls
Substrate IDDM NIDDM
Carbohydrate
Muscle	glycogen Same Decreased
Plasma	glucose Increased Increased
Fat
Muscle	triglycerides Increased Increased
Plasma	fatty	acids Increased Decreased/same

308		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
•	 Limit	 carbohydrates:	 Although	 all	carbohydrates	 can	be	incorporated	 into	carbohy-
drate	counting,	 for	good	health,	carbohydrates	 from	vegetables,	 fruits,	wholegrains,	
legumes,	 and	dairy	products	 take	priority	over	other	carbohydrate	 sources,	 espe-
cially	those	that	contain	added	fats,	sugars,	or	sodium.	 When	it	comes	to	grain	flour	
products,	 it	is	best	to	consume	 grains	in	their	whole	form	instead	of	flour	form	
because	flour	tends	to	increase	insulin	resistance.
•	 Avoid	 sweetened	 beverages:	 All	types	of	sugars	are	capable	of	raising	blood	sugar	
levels	and	contributing	 to	insulin	resistance.	 Sugar-	sweetened	 beverages	 that	should	
be	avoided	include	soft	drinks,	fruit	drinks,	iced	tea,	and	energy	and	vitamin	water	
drinks	containing	 sucrose,	 high	fructose	 corn	syrup,	fruit	juice	concentrates,	 and	
other	artificial	 sweeteners.	 Instead	of	drinking	 sweetened	 beverages,	 stick	with	water,	
seltzer,	herbal	or	black	tea,	and	coffee.	When	it	comes	to	adding	sweeteners	 to	your	
beverages,	 or	food,	choose	natural	sweeteners	 like	raw	honey,	organic	stevia,	dates,	
pure	maple	syrup,	or	blackstrap	molasses.
•	 Eat	 more	fiber:	Consuming	 high-	fiber	foods	like	artichokes,	 peas,	acorn	squash,	
Brussels	 sprouts,	 avocado,	 legumes	 and	beans,	flaxseeds,	 chia	seeds,	and	quinoa	
helps	regulate	 blood	glucose	concentrations	 in	diabetics.	 Load	the	plate	with	fresh	
vegetables	 as	often	as	possible	–	they’re	high	in	fiber,	low	in	calories,	 and	contain	an	
array	of	vitamins	and	minerals	with	anti-	 inflammatory	properties.
•	 Eat	healthy	fats:	The	types	of	fatty	acids	consumed	 are	more	important	 than	total	fat	
in	the	diet.	Individuals	 with	insulin	resistance	 are	encouraged	 to	select	unsaturated	
fats	in	place	of	saturated	 and	trans	fatty	acids.	To	prevent	insulin	resistance	 and	dia-
betes,	it	is	suggested	 that	saturated	 fat	intake	be	less	than	7	percent	of	total	energy	
intake	per	day.	The	intake	of	foods	rich	in	monounsaturated	 fatty	acids,	such	as	
olive	oil,	avocados,	 nuts,	and	seeds,	can	improve	 glycemic	 control.	 People	with	
insulin	resistance	 should	also	increase	 foods	containing	 omega-	3	fatty	acids,	specifi-
cally	by	eating	at	least	two	servings	of	wild-	caught	fatty	fish	every	week	that	includes	
salmon,	herring,	 tuna,	white	fish,	and	sardines.	 Foods	rich	in	omega-	3	are	also	listed	
in	Chapter	3.
•	 Get	 enough	protein:	 The	consumption	 of	higher	amounts	 of	protein	during	dietary	
treatment	 of	obesity	may	result	in	greater	weight	loss	than	with	lower	amounts	 of	
protein.	Researchers	 indicate	that	adequate	 dietary	protein	intake	is	of	specific	import-
ance	for	people	with	insulin	resistance	 and	type	2	diabetes	 because	proteins	 are	relat-
ively	neutral	about	glucose	and	lipid	metabolism,	 and	they	preserve	 muscle	and	bone	
mass,	which	may	be	decreased	 in	people	with	poorly	controlled	 insulin	resistance.	 Lean	
protein	foods	are	desirable	 in	regulating	 blood	sugar	levels	and	they	include	organic	
chicken,	wild	fish,	free-	 range	eggs,	lentils,	yogurt,	and	almonds.
Summary
•	 In	comparison	 with	men,	women	are	able	to	derive	proportionately	 more	of	the	
total	energy	expended	 from	fat	oxidation	 during	aerobic	exercise.	 This	gender	dif-
ference	may	be	attributed	 to	the	experimental	 observations	 that	estrogen	 stimulates	
lipolysis	and	also	inhibits	carbohydrate	utilization.
•	 Due	 to	an	increase	 in	body	mass	including	 fetal	tissue,	there	is	an	increase	 in	energy	
cost	during	weight-	bearing	activities	 such	as	walking,	 jogging,	 and	running	 in	preg-
nant	women.	Their	energy	cost	during	non-	exercise	 periods	also	increases	 due	prim-
arily	to	an	increase	in	resting	metabolism.
•	 The	 inhibitive	 effect	of	estrogen	 as	well	as	other	placental	 hormones	 on	carbohy-
drate	metabolism	 has	placed	pregnant	 women	at	high	risk	for	developing	 insulin	
resistance	 that	can	lead	to	gestational	 diabetes.	 As	such,	being	physically	 active	

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		309
during	pregnancy	 is	of	importance	 in	preventing	 the	occurrence	 of	these	metabolic	
disorders	 and	this	can	be	achieved	 by	choosing	 primarily	 non-	weight-bearing	 activ-
ities	and	exercising	at	low	to	moderate	intensity.
•	 Both	 carbohydrate	 and	fat	utilization	 decrease	 as	one	ages	and	these	declines	 can	
impair	the	ability	of	the	elderly	to	tolerate	 strenuous	 physical	 activity.	The	age-	
related	reduction	 in	substrate	 utilization	 is	due	to	the	loss	of	the	size	and/or	oxida-
tive	capacity	 of	metabolically	 active	tissues	such	as	skeletal	 muscle	as	well	as	a	
decrease	in	tissues’	sensitivity	to	insulin.
•	 Children	 and	adolescents	 should	not	be	regarded	 as	miniature	 adults	because	 the	
age-	related	functional	 deficiency	 in	children	 and	adolescents	 is	not	always	attribut-
able	to	the	fact	that	they	are	smaller	in	size.	Many	differences	 in	function	 have	been	
found	to	be	either	partially	related	to	or	completely	independent	of	changes	in	size.
•	 In	comparison	 with	adults,	children	 are	inefficient	 metabolically	 due	to	the	fact	that	
they	are	less	coordinated	 in	performing	 physical	 activities.	 They	are	also	less	able	to	
store	and	use	carbohydrate	 as	an	energy	source	and	this	can	limit	their	tolerance	 to	
a	strenuous	 exercise	 for	an	extended	 period	of	time.	However,	 children	 have	a	lower	
oxygen	deficit	and	they	are	also	able	to	derive	proportionately	 more	of	their	total	
energy	from	fat	oxidation.
•	 Insulin	 resistance	 is	associated	 with	an	impaired	 utilization	 of	intramuscular	 triglycer-
ides.	However, 	those	with	insulin	resistance 	are	not	limited	in	their	ability	to	use	fat	as	
an	energy	source	during	exercise.	 Therefore,	 exercise	is	considered	 relatively	 ideal	in	
that	it	can	help	stimulate	greater	fat	utilization,	which	may	alleviate	insulin	resistance.
•	 Research	 has	evidenced	 that	a	greater	reduction	 in	muscle	glycogen	 following	 an	
acute	bout	of	exercise	 can	produce	 a	greater	improvement	 in	insulin	sensitivity.	 It	
may	be	safe	to	suggest	that	if	an	exercise	 program	 is	prescribed	 with	the	goal	of	
improving	 insulin	sensitivity,	 then	this	program	 should	entail	at	least	some	com-
ponent	of	vigorous	 exercise	 so	that	a	greater	utilization	 of	muscle	glycogen	 can	
provide	a	positive	impact	upon	insulin	sensitivity.
•	 Regular	 physical	 activity	has	proven	beneficial	 in	improving	 insulin	sensitivity.	 The	
improved	 insulin	action	may	be	explained	 by	cellular	changes,	 including	 increased	
glucose	transporters	 and	activity	of	enzymes	 that	are	responsible	 for	glycogen	 syn-
thesis.	The	improved	 insulin	sensitivity	 is	not	only	observed	 in	skeletal	muscle,	but	is	
also	manifested	 in	the	liver	and	adipose	tissue.	These	positive	changes	 justify	the	use	
of	exercise	 as	part	of	therapy	in	treating	 insulin	resistance	 associated	 with	obesity	
and	NIDDM.
•	 In	healthy	individuals,	 reduced	 muscle	glycogen	 content	will	result	in	an	increase	 in	
fat	utilization.	 However,	 the	skeletal	muscle	in	those	with	insulin	resistance	 is	unable	
to	make	such	a	switch	easily	from	carbohydrate	 to	fat	utilization.	 This	condition	 is	
also	known	as	metabolic	inflexibility.
•	 Both	 IDDM	and	NIDDM	 are	characterized	 as	a	metabolic	 disorder	 in	that	it	impairs	
the	body’s	ability	to	regulate	 blood	glucose	concentration	 and	is	accompanied	 by	a	
condition	 of	hyperglycemia.	 However,	 the	etiology	 to	this	impairment	 is	different.	
IDDM	is	associated	 with	a	lack	of	insulin.	NIDDM	 involves	 a	reduced	 ability	of	
tissues	to	respond	to	insulin.
•	 Many	 individuals	 with	obesity	and	NIDDM	 are	characterized	 as	having	insulin	resist-
ance.	Insulin	resistance	 is	defined	 as	the	decreased	 ability	of	insulin	to	stimulate	
cellular	glucose	uptake	and	storage	and	to	suppress	 hepatic	glucose	production.	
Insulin	resistance	 is	not	only	associated	 with	an	overall	level	of	body	fat,	but	also	
with	body	fat	distribution.	 Those	obese	individuals	 with	their	body	fat	being	distrib-
uted	primarily	 in	the	abdominal	 region	are	most	prone	to	the	condition	 of	insulin	
resistance.

310		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
•	 Aerobic	 exercise	helps	reduce	blood	glucose	levels	of	diabetic	individuals.	 This	blood-	
lowering	 effect	of	exercise	 can	occur	with	and	without	insulin.	For	both	IDDM	and	
NIDDM,	 the	introduction	 of	an	exercise	program	 should	be	accompanied	 by	accord-
ant	modifications	 of	diet	as	well	as	by	medication	 or	insulin	so	that	an	over-	reduction 	
in	blood	glucose	concentration	or	hypoglycemia	may	be	prevented.
Case study: exercise training for type 2 diabetes
Julia	is	a	50-year-	old	sedentary,	 African-	American	 woman	who	has	had	type	2	diabetes	
for	five	years.	Julia’s	baseline	 weight	is	160	pounds,	 and	her	waist	circumference	 is	
99	cm.	Resting	blood	pressure	 is	144/68	mmHg.	She	is	currently	 taking	medication	 to	
lower	her	blood	glucose	concentrations.	 As	recommended	 by	her	family	physician,	
Julia	plans	to	enroll	in	a	three-	month	supervised	 aerobic	 exercise	 program.	 She	
received	clearance	from	her	physician	before	beginning	exercise	training.
	 Baseline	 laboratory	 analyses	 reveal	a	fasting	blood	glucose	of	246	mg/100	ml,	A1C	of	
9.9	percent,	 total	cholesterol	 of	205	mg/100	ml,	LDL	cholesterol	 of	145	mg/100	ml,	and	
total	cholesterol-	 to-HDL	cholesterol	 ratio	of	4.8.	Her	VO2max	is	26.5	ml/kg/min	 and	
her	percentage	of	body	fat	is	40.
Questions
•	 How	would	you	describe	 Julia’s	results	of	baseline	 laboratory	 analyses	 in	terms	of	
blood	chemistry,	fitness,	and	body	composition?
•	 What	risk	factors	does	Julia	have	that	may	contribute	to	cardiovascular	diseases?
•	 How	might	regular	exercise	training	benefit	her	diabetic	condition?•	 What	type	of	exercise	program	should	be	prescribed	for	Julia?
Review questions
	1	 Describe	 the	gender	difference	 in	fat	utilization	 during	exercise.	 What	is	the	experi-
mental	evidence	to	support	this	gender	difference?
	2	 What	is	the	role	estrogen	plays	in	regulating	fat	and	carbohydrate	utilization?
	3	 Pregnant	 women	have	an	increased	 risk	of	developing	 hyperglycemia	 and	gestational	
diabetes.	How	do	these	conditions	come	about?
	4	 What	are	the	benefits	of	regular	exercise	during	pregnancy?
	5	 Define	 the	term	sarcopenia.	 Discuss	the	importance	 of	maintaining	 lean	body	mass	
(i.e.,	muscle	mass)	as	one	ages.
	6	 Provide	 a	specific	explanation	 as	to	why	there	is	an	impaired	 utilization	 of	carbohy-
drate	and	fat	in	older	individuals.
	7	 Provide	 specific	 metabolic	 explanations	 for	why	older	individuals	 tend	to	gain	
weight.
	8	 How	are	children	 different	 from	adults	in	terms	of	their	aerobic	and	anaerobic	 capa-
city	as	well	as	their	ability	to	use	fat	and	carbohydrate?
	9	 How	would	you	explain	the	notion	that	children	 and	adolescents	 should	not	be	
viewed	as	miniature	adults?
10	 Define	 the	term	insulin	resistance.	 What	are	the	symptoms	 associated	 with	insulin	
resistance?
11	 Why	is	there	a	close	relationship	between	insulin	resistance	and	visceral	adiposity?
12	 Insulin 	sensitivity 	can	be	assessed	by	an	oral	glucose	tolerance 	test	or	a	hyperinsulinemic-
	euglycemic 	glucose	clamp	test.	How	is	each	test	administered? 	What	are	the	advantages	
and	disadvantages	associated	with	each	test?

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		311
13	 Explain	 how	insulin	sensitivity	 is	determined	 based	on	the	results	of	a	hyperinsuline -
mic	euglycemic	glucose	clamp	test.
14	 Define	 the	term	metabolic	 inflexibility.	 Explain	this	condition	 using	RQ	values	meas-
ured	under	the	fast	and	fed	conditions.
15	 What	are	the	health	problems	associated	with	metabolic	inflexibility?
16	 How	does	an	improvement	in	insulin	sensitivity	come	about	following	training?
17	 What	 are	the	differences	 between	 insulin-	dependent	 diabetes	 mellitus	 (IDDM)	 and	
non-	insulin-dependent	mellitus	(NIDDM)?
18	 What	 are	the	food	choices	that	diabetics	 should	adhere	to	in	order	to	better	manage	
their	blood	glucose	concentration?
Suggested reading
	1	 Bar-	Or	O,	Rowland	 TW	(2004)	Physiologic	 and	perceptual	 responses	 to	exercise	 in	
healthy	children.	 In	Pediatric Exercise Medicine .	Champaign,	 IL:	Human	 Kinetics,	
pp.	3–59.
 This section of the book presents comparative data, demonstrating how the exercise- induced car -
diorespiratory, metabolic, and perceptual responses differ among children and adults. It is clear 
that children are not miniature adults and some of the responses are specific to their biological 
age rather than to their body size.
	2	 Elia	M,	Ritz	P,	Stubbs	RJ	(2000)	Total	energy	expenditure	 in	the	elderly.	 European 
Journal of Clinical Nutrition ,	54:	S92–S103.
 Using doubly labeled water measurements and cross- sectional comparisons of different age 
groups, authors are able to examine how aging may affect the total energy expenditure and its 
sub- components, including resting metabolic rate and physical activity.
	3	 Goodpaster	 BH,	Wolfe	RR,	Kelley	DE	(2002)	Effect	of	obesity	on	substrate	 utilization	
during	exercise.	 Obesity Research ,	10:	575–584.
 This original investigation provides strong evidence that characterizes substrate utilization pat -
terns during exercise between obese and lean individuals.
	4	 Ivy	JL	(1997)	Role	of	exercise	 training	 in	the	prevention	 and	treatment	 of	insulin	
resistance	and	non-	 insulin-dependent	diabetes	mellitus.	 Sports Medicine ,	24:	321–336.
 This review provides readers with further understanding of how physical training helps in treat -
ing and preventing insulin resistance and non- insulin-dependent diabetes. The cellular mecha -
nisms responsible for improved insulin- mediated glucose disposal are thoroughly discussed.
	5	 Tarnopolsky	 MA	(2000)	Gender	differences	 in	substrate	 metabolism	 during	endur-
ance	exercise.	 Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology ,	25:	312–327.
 This paper reviews both animal and human studies pertaining to gender differences in substrate 
utilization during endurance exercise. It also discusses the underlying mechanism for why such 
gender difference exists.
Glossary
Adolescence 	the	period	in	which	a	child	matures	into	an	adult.
Central obesity 	a	type	of	obesity	in	which	excessive	 fat	around	the	stomach	 and	abdomen 	
builds	up	to	the	extent	that	it	is	likely	to	have	a	negative	impact	upon	health.
Childhood 	the	phase	of	development	in	humans	between	infancy	and	adolescence.
Corpus luteum 	a	yellow,	progesterone-	 secreting	 mass	of	cells	that	forms	from	an	
ovarian	follicle	after	the	release	of	an	ovum.
Estrogen 	a	major	female	sex	hormone	 produced	 primarily	 by	the	ovarian	follicles	and	
responsible	 for	developing	 and	maintaining	 secondary	 female	sex	characteristics	
and	preparing	the	uterus	for	the	reception	of	a	fertilized	egg.

312		 Nutrition and metabolism in special cases
Euglycemic 	a	condition	 where	blood	glucose	 concentrations	 are	within	a	normal	
range.
Exogenous 	arising	from	outside	of	an	organism.
Follicular 	the	phase	during	which	follicles	are	formed	during	the	menstrual	 cycle	or	
the	time	period	from	onset	of	menstruation	to	ovulation.
Gestational diabetes 	a	form	of	diabetes	that	occurs	only	during	pregnancy.
Glucose tolerance 	the	test	that	determines	 how	quickly	the	ingested	 glucose	is	cleared	
from	the	blood.
Glucose transporters 	a	family	of	membrane	 proteins	 found	in	most	mammalian	 cells	
that	function	to	transport	glucose	molecules	across	the	cell	membrane.
Hemoglobin 	the	oxygen	carrying	protein	in	red	blood	cells.
Hyperinsulinemic glucose clamp 	a	method	 that	assesses	how	sensitive	 the	tissue	is	to	
insulin	and	which	requires	maintaining	a	high	insulin	level	by	infusion	with	insulin.
Hyperlipidemia 	a	condition	 where	there	is	an	abnormal	 elevation	 of	blood	lipids	
including	cholesterol	and	triglycerides.
Indirect calorimetry 	a	method	 which	calculates	 heat	produced	 by	living	organisms	
from	their	consumption	of	oxygen.
Infancy	a	stage	of	human	development	 lasting	from	birth	to	approximately	 2	years	of	
age.
Insulin resistance 	a	condition	 in	which	normal	amounts	 of	insulin	are	inadequate	 to	
produce	a	normal	insulin	response	from	fat,	muscle,	and	liver	cells.
Insulin responsiveness 	a	measure	 of	tissue’s	ability	to	respond	 to	insulin	and	is	deter-
mined	as	the	peak	rate	of	insulin-	mediated	 glucose	disposal	 using	the	euglyemic	
hyperinsulinemic	clamp	technique.
Insulin sensitivity 	a	measure	 of	tissues’	ability	to	respond	 to	insulin	and	may	be	deter-
mined	as	the	insulin	concentration	 that	produces	 half	of	the	maximal	 response	 in	
insulin-	mediated	 glucose	 disposal	 using	the	euglyemic	 hyperinsulinemic	 clamp	
technique.
Leptin	a	satiety	hormone	from	fat	tissue	that	inhibits	energy	intake	if	fat	tissue	enlarges.
Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) 	an	enzyme	that	cleaves	one	fatty	acid	from	a	triglyceride.
Luteal	the	phase	during	which	corpus	luteum	secretes	 progesterone	 which	prepares	
the	uterus	for	the	implantation	 of	an	embryo	or	the	second	half	of	the	menstrual	
cycle	from	ovulation	to	the	beginning	of	the	next	menstrual	flow.
Metabolic inflexibility 	the	inability	 to	switch	the	utilization	 of	lipids	and	carbohydrates	
in	the	peripheral	tissue	(i.e.,	muscle)	based	on	substrate	availability.
Oxygen deficit 	a	lag	of	oxygen	consumption	 at	the	onset	of	exercise	 and	computed	 as	
the	difference	 between	 oxygen	uptake	during	early	stages	of	exercise	 and	during	a	
similar	duration	in	a	steady	state	of	exercise.
Oxygen kinetics 	a	measure	 that	assesses	the	integrated	 responses	 of	oxygen	require-
ments	and	supply	at	the	onset	of	and	during	exercise	of	varying	intensity.
Placenta	a	membranous	 vascular	organ	in	the	uterus	developed	 during	pregnancy	 and	
providing	oxygen	and	nutrients	for	and	transferring	wastes	from	the	developing	fetus.
Placenta lactogen 	a	polypeptide 	hormone 	that	has	similar	structure 	and	function	to	
human	growth	hormone	and	is	important	in	facilitating	the	energy	supply	of	the	fetus.
Post­ absorptive state 	the	time	period	when	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	is	empty	and	
energy	comes	from	the	breakdown	 of	the	body’s	reserves	 such	as	glycogen	 and	
triglycerides.
Progesterone 	a	steroid	hormone	 that	prepares	 the	uterus	for	the	fertilized	 ovum	and	
maintains	pregnancy.
Prolactin 	a	peptide	hormone	 secreted	 by	the	pituitary	 gland	and	associated	 primarily	
with	lactation.

Nutrition and metabolism in special cases 		313
Puberty	the	period	when	children	 begin	to	mature	biologically	 and	become	 an	adult	
capable	of	reproduction.
Respiratory exchange ratio 	a	qualitative	 indicator	 of	which	fuel	(carbohydrate	 or	fat)	is	
being	metabolized	to	supply	the	body	with	energy.
Subcutaneous 	beneath	or	under	the	skin.
Testosterone 	a	steroid	hormone	 secreted	 by	the	testes	that	stimulates	 the	development	
of	male	sex	organs,	secondary	sexual	traits,	and	sperm.
Thermogenesis 	the	process	 by	which	the	body	generates	 heat	or	energy	through	
metabolism.
Vastus lateralis 	the	largest	part	of	the	Quadriceps	muscle.
Visceral	internal	 organs	of	the	body,	specifically	 those	within	the	chest	such	as	the	
heart	and	lungs	or	within	the	abdomen	such	as	the	liver,	pancreas,	or	intestines.

13 Measurement of energy consumption 
and output
Contents
Key terms 314
Assessing nutritional status 315
•	 A	24-hour	dietary	recall	 315
•	 Food	diary	or	food	intake	record	 316
•	 Food	frequency	questionnaires	 318
•	 Dietary	history	 320
•	 Next	step:	analyzing	nutrient	and	energy	content	 321
•	 Other	methods	of	assessing	nutritional	health	 321
Assessing	energy	expenditure	and	substrate	utilization	 324
•	 Laboratory	approaches	 324
•	 Field-	based	techniques	 329
•	 Doubly-	 labeled	water	technique	 329
•	 Motion	sensors	 330
•	 Heart	rate	monitoring	 333
•	 Combining	HR	and	motion	monitoring	 333
•	 Multi-	 sensor	monitoring	system	 335
•	 Subjective	measures	 336
Summary	 337
Case	study	 338
Review	questions	 339
Suggested	reading	 339
Glossary	 340
Key terms
•	 Acceleration	 •	 Accelerometer
•	 Algorithm	 •	 Caloric	equivalent	of	oxygen
•	 Creatinine	 •	 Dietary	history
•	 Direct	calorimetry	 •	 Doubly	labeled	water
•	 Food	diary	 •	 Food	frequency	questionnaires
•	 Indirect	calorimetry	 •	 Isotope
•	 Missing	foods	 •	 Pedometer
•	 Phantom	foods	 •	 Respiratory	exchange	ratio
•	 Respiratory	quotient	 •	 Signs
•	 Symptoms

Energy consumption and output   315
Assessing nutritional status
An	assessment	 of	nutritional	 status	may	include	a	comprehensive	 evaluation	 consisting	
of	dietary	analysis,	 physical	 examination,	 and	anthropometric	 and	laboratory	 assess-
ments.	Of	 these	methods,	 measurement	 of	nutrient	 intake	via	 dietary	analysis	is	 probably	
the	most	widely	used	indirect	indicator	 of	nutritional	 status.	Dietary	analysis	can	measure	
total	energy	(calories),	 specific	amounts	 of	nutrients,	 and	diversity.	 It	allows	researchers	
to	analyze	the	patterns,	 quantity,	 and	quality	of	food	consumed	 by	individuals	 or	a	popu-
lation.	It	may	also	be	used	by	researchers	 to	try	to	associate	 dietary	intake	with	risk	for	
disease-	related	outcomes.	 Dietary	analysis	is	used	routinely	 in	national	 nutrition	 surveys,	
epidemiologic	 or	clinical	studies,	and	various	federal	and	state	health	and	nutrition	
program	evaluations.
	 Assessing	 dietary	status	includes	 taking	into	account	 the	types	and	amounts	 of	foods	
consumed	 and	the	intake	of	the	nutrients	 and	other	components	 contained	 in	foods.	
When	the	food	consumption	 data	are	combined	 with	information	 on	the	nutrient	 com-
position	 of	food,	the	intake	of	particular	 nutrients	 and	other	food	components	 can	be	
estimated.	 Various	 methods	 for	collecting	 food	consumption	 data	are	available.	
However,	 no	single	best	method	exists.	For	example,	 the	food	consumption	 data	can	be	
obtained	 by	observing	 all	the	food	and	drinks	consumed	 by	the	individual	 for	a	specific	
period	of	time	or	by	asking	the	individual	 to	record	or	recall	their	intake.	Neither	option	
is	ideal	in	that	being	observed	 can	affect	an	individual’s	 intake.	Similarly,	 recording	 and	
recalling	 intake	may	be	erroneous	 because	 these	methods	 rely	on	the	memory,	 reli-
ability,	and	cognitive	 level	of	the	consumer.	 It	has	been	reported	 that	a	person	who	is	
attempting	 to	lose	weight	may	tend	to	report	smaller	portions	 than	were	actually	eaten	
(Johansson	 et al.	1998).	Despite	these	disadvantages,	 properly	 collected	 and	analyzed	
dietary	intake	data	have	considerable	 values.	For	example,	 using	dietary	analysis	has	
allowed	us	to	assess	the	adequacy	 of	dietary	intakes	of	individuals	 and	groups,	to	monitor	
trends	in	food	and	nutrient	 consumption,	 to	study	the	relationship	 between	 diet	and	
health,	to	establish	 food	and	nutrition	 regulations,	 and	to	evaluate	 the	success	and	cost-	
effectiveness	 of	nutrition	 and	risk-	reduction	 programs.	 The	commonly	 used	methods	
described	 below	are	the	best	tools	available	 for	evaluating	 dietary	intake	to	predict	
nutrient	deficiencies	and	excesses.
A 24-hour dietary recall
A	24-hour	 dietary	recall	is	a	structured	 interview	 intended	 to	capture	detailed	 informa-
tion	about	all	foods	and	beverages	 (and	possibly	dietary	supplements)	 consumed	 by	the	
respondent	 in	the	past	24	hours,	generally	 from	midnight	 to	midnight	 the	previous	 day.	
This	method	is	most	commonly	 used	for	assessing	 dietary	intake.	It	involves	a	registered	
dietician	 or	a	trained	interviewer	 asking	people	to	recall	exactly	what	they	ate	during	the	
preceding	 24-hour	period.	Occasionally,	 the	time	period	is	the	previous	 eight	hours,	the	
past	seven	days,	or,	in	rare	instances,	 even	the	preceding	 month	(Lee-	Han	 et al.	1989).	
However,	 memories	 of	intake	may	fade	relatively	 quickly	beyond	the	most	recent	day	or	
two,	so	that	loss	of	accuracy	may	exceed	gain	in	representativeness.
	 Using	 this	method,	 a	detailed	 description	 of	all	food	and	drink,	including	 descrip-
tions	of	cooking	 methods	 and	brand	names	of	products,	 is	recorded.	 The	interviewer	
helps	the	respondent	 remember	 all	that	was	consumed	 during	a	predetermined	 period	
and	assists	the	respondent	 in	estimating	 portion	sizes	of	foods	consumed.	 The	method	
typically	 begins	by	asking	what	the	respondent	 first	ate	or	drank	on	last	awakening.	 The	
recall	proceeds	 from	the	morning	 of	the	present	day	to	the	current	moment.	 The	inter-
viewer	then	begins	at	the	point	exactly	24	hours	in	the	past	and	works	forward	 to	the	

316		 Energy consumption and output
time	of	awakening.	 Some	researchers	 use	the	time	period	from	midnight	 to	midnight	 of	
the	previous	 day.	Asking	the	respondent	 about	his	or	her	activities	 during	the	day	and	
inquiring	 how	those	activities	 may	have	been	associated	 with	eating	and	drinking	 can	
help	in	recalling	 food	intake.	The	recall	may	then	be	analyzed	 using	a	computerized	 diet	
analysis	program.
	 The	24-hour	 recall	has	several	advantages	 (Table 	13.1). 	It	may	be	conducted	 in	
person	or	by	telephone	 with	similar	results.	It	is	quick	to	administer	 (i.e.,	30	minutes	 or	
less),	and	it	can	provide	detailed	 information	 on	specific	foods,	especially	 if	brand	names	
can	be	recalled	 (Block	1989).	It	requires	 only	short-	term	memory.	 It	is	well	received	 by	
respondents	 because	 they	are	not	asked	to	keep	records	and	their	time	and	effort	of	
involvement	 is	relatively	 low.	The	method	 is	also	considered	 to	be	more	objective	 than	
the	methods	 of	a	food	diary	and	food	frequency	 questionnaire	 because	 its	administra -
tion	does	not	alter	the	usual	diet	(Guenther	 1994).	This	method	is	considered	 appropri -
ate	for	use	with	low-	income	and	low-	literacy	populations	 because	 the	subjects	 do	not	
need	to	read	or	write	to	complete	the	recall.
	 Recalls 	have	several	limitations 	( Table	1 3.1).	The	primary	limitation 	of	this	method	is	
that	data	on	a	single	day,	no	matter	how	accurate,	 are	a	poor	representation	 of	an	individu-
al’s	usual	nutrient	 intake	due	to	intra-	individual	 variability.	 However,	 multiple	 24-hour	
recalls	performed	 on	an	individual	 and	spaced	over	various	seasons	may	provide	a	reason-
able	estimate	 of	that	person’s	 usual	nutrient	 intake.	In	a	study	that	compared	 various	
methods	 of	dietary	assessment,	 a	minimum	 of	four	repeated 	24-hour	recalls	were	found	to	
be	the	most	appropriate	 method	of	dietary	assessment	 (Holmes	 et al.	2008).	This	method	
requires	 a	trained	interviewer,	 which	may	increase	 costs	of	the	assessment.	 In	addition, 	
respondents	 may	withhold	 or	alter	information	 about	what	they	ate	owing	to	poor	memory	
or	embarrassment,	 or	trying	to	please	or	impress	the	interviewer.	 The	items	that	respond-
ents	tend	to	under-	report	include	binge	eating,	consumption	 of	alcoholic	 beverages,	 and	
consumption 	of	foods	perceived 	as	unhealthy. 	On	the	other	hand,	respondents 	tend	to	
over-	report	consumption	 of	name-	brand	foods,	expensive	 cuts	of	meat,	and	foods	con-
sidered	healthy	(Feskanich	 et al.	1993).	Foods	eaten	but	not	reported	 are	known	as	missing 
foods,	while	foods	not	eaten	but	reported	are	known	as	 phantom foods.
	 Errors	 associated	 with	under-	reporting	 and	over-	reporting	 can	be	minimized	 by	using	
the	multiple-	 pass	24-hour	recall	method	in	which	the	interviewer	 and	respondent	 review	
the	previous	 day’s	eating	events	several	times	to	obtain	detailed	and	accurate	 information 	
about	food	intake.	For	example,	 a	brief	list	of	foods	eaten	during	the	previous	 24	hours	is	
initially	compiled. 	In	the	second	pass,	a	detailed	description 	of	foods	on	the	brief	list	is	
obtained	 by	asking	respondents	 to	clarify	the	description	 and	preparation	 methods	 of	
foods	on	this	list.	In	the	third	pass,	the	interviewer	 reviews	the	data	collected,	 probes	for	
additional	eating	occasions,	and	clarifies	portion	sizes	using	standardized	methodology.
Food diary or food intake record
Although	 the	method	of	24-hour	recall	is	relatively	 simple,	its	usefulness	 depends	 on	a	per-
son’s	memory	and	cooperation. 	To	more	accurately 	assess	a	person’s	diet,	it	is	better	to	
record	foods	and	beverages	 while	that	person	is	consuming	 them.	This	method	is	called	
the	food diary 	or	food	intake	record.	Using	this	method,	 the	respondent	 records,	 at	the	
time	of	consumption,	 the	identity	and	amounts	 of	all	foods	and	beverages	 consumed	 over	
a	period	of	time,	usually	ranging	from	two	to	seven	days	and	including 	at	least	one	
weekend	 day,	since	most	people	eat	differently	 on	weekends	 than	during	the	school	or	
work	week.	Directions 	for	conducting 	the	food	diary	as	well	as	recording 	samples	may	be	
found	in	Appendix	 G.	Using	this	method,	 food	and	beverage	 consumption	 is	determined 	
by	estimating	 portion	size,	using	household	 measures,	 or	weighing	 the	food	or	beverage	 on	

Table 13.1	Advantages	and	disadvantages	of	various	methods	assessing	diet
Method Advantages Disadvantages
24-hour	recall •	Quick	and	easy	to	administer
•	Requires	only	short-term	memory
•	Does	not	alter	eating	patterns
•	Low	respondent	burden
•	Can	provide	detailed	information	on	types	of	foods	consumed
•	Useful	in	clinical	settings•	Not	representative	of	individual	diet
•	Subject	to	under-	or	over-reporting	of	serving	size
•	May	omit	foods
•	Relies	on	memory
•	Results	vary	with	season
•	Data	entry	can	be	labor-intensive
Food	diary	or	food	
intake	record•	Provides	detailed	information	on	nutrient	intake
•	Does	not	rely	on	memory
•	Multiple	days	of	recording	are	more	representative
•	Can	provide	data	on	eating	habits•	Requires	high	degree	of	cooperation	from	respondents
•	Respondents	must	be	literate
•	May	alter	diets
•	Labor-intensive	and	time-consuming	in	data	analysis
Food	frequency	
questionnaire•	Can	be	self-administered
•	Results	are	machine	readable
•	Modest	demand	on	respondents
•	Relatively	inexpensive	for	a	large	sample	size
•		May	better	represent	usual	intake	than	several	days	of	food	
record	or	24-hour	recall
•	Helps	reveal	diet–disease	relationship•	May	not	give	a	good	estimate	of	quantity	of	foods	consumed
•	Requires	a	good	memory	of	diet	over	weeks	and	months
•		Data	can	be	compromised	when	multiple	foods	are	grouped	
within	single	listings
Dietary	history •	Assesses	usual	eating	habits,	not	just	recent	intake
•	Can	detect	seasonal	changes
•	Data	on	all	nutrients	can	be	obtained
•	Can	correlate	well	with	biochemical	measures	•	Lengthy	interview	process
•	Requires	highly	skilled	interviewers
•	Difficult	to	analyze
•		Requires	cooperative	respondent	with	ability	to	recall	usual	
diet

318		 Energy consumption and output
the	scales.	Portion	sizes	are	often	quantified	 by	using	household	 measures	 such	as	cups,	
tablespoons,	 and	a	weight	scale	(Figure	13.1)	or 	measurements	 made	with	a	ruler.	Certain	
items,	such	as	eggs,	apples,	bananas,	 bread,	or	12-oz	cans	of	soft	drinks,	may	be	simply	
counted	 as	units.	The	record	should	be	as	complete	 as	possible,	 including	 not	only	food	
and	beverages,	 but	also	dressings,	 condiments,	 brand	names,	and	preparation	 methods. 	
This	method	allows	portion	sizes	to	be	estimated. 	Ideally,	food	and	leftovers	should	be	
weighed	 so	that	results	of	analysis	will	be	more	accurate.	 However,	 using	weighed	 food	
records	requires	 a	great	deal	of	effort	and	cooperation	 from	respondents	 and	may	be	cost-	
prohibitive	in	terms	of	measurement	scales.
	 One	of	the	most	important	 advantages	 of	this	method	is	that	the	food	record	does	not	
depend	on	memory	 because	the	respondent	 ideally	records	food	and	beverage	 consump -
tion	at	the	time	of	eating	(Table 	13.1). 	In	addition,	 data	from	a	multiple-	 day	food	record	is	
more	representative	 of	usual	intake	than	that	from	a	24-hour	recall	or	1-day	food	record.	
However,	 it	is	recommended	 that	such	a	food	record	is	derived	from	non-	consecutive, 	
random	days	(including	 weekends)	 and	that	multiple	 food	records	should	be	carried	out	
to	cover	different	 seasons	(Rebro	 et al.	1998,	Macdiarmid 	and	Blundell	1997).	Via	the	use	
of	dietary	software,	 this	method	also	provides	 more	detailed	 nutrient	 intake	information 	
that	can	be	specific	to	each	day	or	each	meal.	Results	of	analysis	typically	include	the	con-
sumption	 of	total	calories,	calories	from	macronutrients,	 dietary	fiber,	sodium,	cholesterol, 	
and	saturated	 and	unsaturated	 fat,	all	of	which	have	been	directly	linked	to	health.	Data	
outputs	also	include	the	consumption	 of	essential	 nutrients,	 such	as	protein,	vitamins,	 and	
most	minerals,	relative	to	the	recommended	daily	allowance	(RDA).
	 The	food	diary	has	several	disadvantages	 (Table 	13.1). 	The	method	requires	 respond-
ents	to	be	literate	and	cooperative,	 so	that	they	are	able	and	willing	to	spend	the	time	and	
effort	necessary 	to	record	their	dietary	intake	for	multiple	days	with	care.	In	fact,	it	has	
been	suggested 	that	those	who	are	able	to	complete 	this	method	may	not	be	representative	
of	the	general	population	 (Rebro	 et al.	1998).	In	some	cases,	the	tedious	nature	of	this	
method	 can	discourage	 the	respondent	 from	continuing	 or	cause	the	respondent	 to	
change	his	or	her	intake	rather	than	record	certain	items.	When	asked	directly	about	
recording	 their	food	intake,	30	to	50	percent	of	respondents	 have	reported	 changing	 their	
eating	habits	while	keeping	a	food	record	(Macdiarmid	 and	Blundell	 1997).	Therefore,	 it	
is	likely	that	this	method	can	lead	to	an	under-	reporting 	of	energy	and	nutrient	intake	
(Sawaya	 et al.	1996).
Food frequency questionnaires
Food frequency questionnaires 	assess	energy	or	nutrient	 intake	by	determining	 how	
frequently	 an	individual	 consumes	 a	limited	checklist	 of	foods	that	are	major	sources	of	
nutrients	 or	of	a	particular	 dietary	component	 in	question.	 For	example,	 how	often	do	
Figure 13.1 	Measuring	tools	commonly	used	in	dietary	analysis

Energy consumption and output 		319
you	drink	orange	juice?	How	many	times	a	week	do	you	eat	red	meat?	The	foods	
included	 in	the	questionnaires	 are	usually	important	 contributors	 to	the	population’s	
intake	of	energy	and	nutrients.	 They	may	focus	on	particular	 food	groups,	preparation	
methods,	 or	nutrients.	 Respondents	 indicate	 how	many	times	a	day,	week,	month,	or	
year	they	usually	consume	 the	foods.	Depending	 on	the	type	of	dietary	information	
needed,	 food	frequency	 questionnaires	 may	include	questions	 about	serving	size.	If	only	
a	general	 sense	of	serving	size	is	needed,	 the	respondent	 may	be	asked	to	indicate	
whether	 the	servings	 were	small,	medium,	 or	large	relative	to	a	standard	 serving.	Some	
questionnaires	 may	ask	subjects	 to	estimate	 serving	 sizes;	these	are	called	semi-	
quantitative.	 In	terms	of	data	analysis,	 a	Scantron	 is	often	used	so	that	respondents	 can	
mark	their	answers	on	an	answer	sheet,	which	can	then	be	optically	 scanned	 and	scored	
on	a	computer.	 This	will	save	the	researchers	 considerable	 time	and	effort,	and	makes	
food	frequency	 questionnaires	 a	cost-	effective	 approach	 for	measuring	 diet	in	large	epi-
demiologic	 studies.	For	semi-	quantitative	 questionnaires,	 quantities	 of	nutrient	 intake	
can	be	estimated	 via	computerized	 software	 programs	 that	multiply	 the	reported	 fre-
quency	of	each	food	by	the	amount	 of	nutrient	 in	a	serving	of	that	food.	Both	the	
24-hour	recall	and	the	food	frequency	 questionnaire	 are	often	regarded	 as	retrospective	
dietary	assessment	 methods,	 which	require	the	person	to	recall	what	he	or	she	ate	in	the	
past.	An	example	of	food	frequency	questionnaire	is	illustrated	in	 Figure	13.2.
	 Food	 frequency	 questionnaires	 have	several	advantages	 (Table 	13.1). 	They	place	a	
modest	demand	 on	the	time	and	effort	of	respondents	 and	generate	 estimates	 of	food	Never
Once per week2–4 per week5–6 per weekDailyOnce per monthOnce per 3 monthsOnce per year Milk, yogurt, regular fa t
(1 cup)
Milk, yogurt, low-fat
(1 cup)
Spinach, kale, other green
leafy vegetables (1/2 cup)
Carrots (1 medium)
Beef (3 oz)
Rice, white (1 cup)
Rice, brown (1 cup)
Cookies (2–2'' diameter)
Ice cream, regular fa t
(1/2 cup)
Figure 13.2 	An	example	of	a	food	frequency	questionnaire

320		 Energy consumption and output
and	nutrient	 intake	that	may	be	more	representative	 of	usual	intake	than	a	24-hour	
recall	or	a	few	days	of	diet	records.	 They	are	relatively	 easy	and	quick	to	administer,	 and	
the	average	time	needed	to	complete	 the	survey	is	usually	less	than	30	minutes.	 Although	
better	data	are	obtained	 if	an	interviewer	 collects	the	data,	the	food	frequency	 question -
naires	may	be	self-	administered	 and	machine	 readable,	 and	thus	they	are	more	cost-	
effective	 for	use	in	studies	that	involve	a	large	sample	size.	The	questionnaires	 may	be	
specific	about	foods	or	groups	of	foods	to	investigate	 the	relationship	 between	 diet	and	
disease.	For	example,	 if	you	are	interested	 in	the	relationship	 between	 calcium	 intake	
and	osteoporosis,	 you	can	assess	calcium	intake	by	the	use	of	a	food	frequency	 question -
naire	that	asks	only	about	foods	high	in	calcium	in	subjects	with	and	without	a	condition	
of	osteoporosis.
	 There 	are	some	limitations 	associated 	with	the	food	frequency 	questionnaire	
(Table	13.1). 	The	most	serious	one	is	that	it	requires	 the	subject	to	have	a	good	
memory	 of	intakes	over	weeks,	months,	 or	sometimes	 years	(Willett	 et al.	1985,	Feskan-
ich	et al.	1993).	This	method	 provides	 qualitative	 data	on	types	and	frequencies	 of	
foods	or	food	groups	consumed	 over	an	extended	 period	of	time,	although	 this	limita-
tion	may	be	partially	 overcome	 by	using	a	semi-	quantitative	 questionnaire.	 In	addition, 	
the	limited	number	 of	foods	listed	may	cause	the	respondent	 to	underestimate	 con-
sumption,	 or	the	respondent	 may	eat	things	that	are	not	listed	on	the	questionnaire. 	
The	food	list	varies	depending	 on	the	questionnaire,	 but	is	usually	limited	to	approxi-
mately	100	to	150	foods	or	drinks.	Short	questionnaires	 are	faster	and	easier	to	admin-
ister	but	are	likely	to	be	less	representative.	 On	the	other	hand,	long	questionnaires 	
may	do	a	better	job	of	assessing	 nutrient	 intake	patterns,	 but	can	also	be	time-	
consuming	and	too	tedious	to	complete.
Dietary history
Unlike	the	24-hour	 recall	and	the	food	records,	 which	assess	recent	intake	for	a	short	
period,	the	dietary history 	is	used	to	assess	an	individual’s	 usual	dietary	intake	over	an	
extended	 period	of	time,	usually	a	month	to	a	year.	This	historical	 approach	 was	initially	
developed	 by	Burke	in	the	1940s.	Burke’s	procedure	 involves	 four	steps.	The	first	is	to	
collect	general	information	 about	the	respondent’s	 health	habits.	The	second	step	is	to	
collect	information	 on	usual	eating	habits,	such	as	the	number	 of	meals	eaten	per	day,	
snacking	 patterns,	 likes	and	dislikes,	 and	seasonal	 variation	 of	eating	patterns.	 This	
allows	the	interviewer	 to	become	 acquainted	 with	the	respondent	 in	ways	that	may	be	
helpful	in	obtaining	 further	information.	 At	this	step,	a	24-hour	recall	is	also	collected.	
The	third	step	is	to	collect	information	 about	the	frequency	 of	the	consumption	 of	spe-
cific	foods.	This	step	also	serves	as	a	check	on	the	information	 given	in	step	two.	For	
example,	 the	respondent	 may	have	said	that	he	or	she	drinks	an	8-oz	glass	of	milk	in	the	
morning.	 The	interviewer	 should	then	inquire	about	the	participant’s	 milk-	drinking	
habits	to	clarify	the	information	 given	about	the	respondent’s	 milk	intake.	The	fourth	
and	final	step	is	to	ask	the	respondent	 to	complete	 a	three-	day	food	record,	which	serves	
as	an	additional	 means	of	checking	 the	usual	intake.	This	last	step	is	sometimes	 omitted,	
since	it	is	only	another	measure	 of	recent	intake	and	it	adds	to	the	cost	and	time	needed	
to	complete	the	analysis.
	 The	dietary	history	has	several	advantages	 over	other	methods	 of	dietary	assessment.	
It	gives	an	overall	picture	of	eating	habits	and	patterns	 including	 seasonal	 changes,	 not	
just	an	estimate	 of	recent	intake.	The	method	 is	one	of	the	preferred	 methods	 for	
obtaining	 estimates	 of	usual	nutrient	 intake	(Block	1989,	Van	Staveren	 et al.	1985).	If	
researchers	 are	only	interested	 in	a	list	of	items	that	are	typical	of	an	individual’s	 diet	

Energy consumption and output 		321
rather	than	a	specific	list	of	items	eaten	during	a	certain	period	of	time,	the	diet	history	
seems	more	adequate	 to	determine	 the	typical	diet.	Most	people	are	able	to	report	what	
they	typically	 eat,	even	if	they	cannot	report	exactly	what	they	ate	during	a	specific	
period	of	time.
	 This	method	 also	has	some	limitations.	 The	data	collection	 is	a	time-	consuming	
process.	The	entire	interview	 can	take	up	to	two	hours	to	complete.	 Interviewers	 who	use	
this	method	 must	be	highly	trained.	 Because	 of	the	large	amount	 of	information	 col-
lected,	the	data	is	very	difficult	 to	analyze.	 In	addition,	 the	method	 also	requires	 a	
cooperative	respondent	with	the	ability	to	recall	his	or	her	usual	diet.
Next step: analyzing nutrient and energy content
Once	information	 on	food	intake	has	been	obtained,	 the	next	step	is	to	determine	
nutrient	 and	energy	content,	 so	that	results	can	be	compared	 to	the	dietary	recom-
mendations.	 To	get	a	general	picture	of	dietary	intake,	an	individual’s	 food	record	can	
be	compared	 with	a	guide	for	diet	planning,	 such	as	the	MyPyramid.	 For	example,	 does	
the	individual	 consume	 the	recommended	 number	 of	servings	of	milk	per	day?	A	more	
precise	and	detailed	 analysis	of	dietary	intake	may	be	done	by	determining	 the	nutrient	
content	of	each	food	item.	Information	 concerning	 the	nutrient	 content	of	foods	may	
be	found	on	food	labels,	in	published	 food	composition	 tables,	and	in	computer	 data-
bases.	Food	labels	provide	information	 only	for	some	nutrients,	 and	they	are	not	always	
available,	 especially	 for	raw	foods	such	as	fruits,	vegetables,	 fish,	meats,	and	poultry.	
Food	composition	 tables,	however,	 contain	 information	 that	is	much	more	compre-
hensive.	 They	typically	 provide	values	for	energy	and	nutrients,	 including	 protein,	 carbo-
hydrates,	 fat,	vitamins,	 and	minerals	 and	for	other	important	 food	components	 such	as	
fiber.	Data	regarding	 food	composition	 are	usually	made	public	and	may	be	found	on	
the	government	websites	of	most	countries.
	 Using	 food	composition	 tables	can	be	time-	consuming	 and	tedious.	 Such	a	short-
coming	may	be	overcome	 by	using	computer	 programs	 and	their	associated	 nutrient	
databases 	that	are	readily	available 	for	professionals 	and	for	home	use.	To	analyze	
nutrient	 intake	using	a	computer	 program,	 one	must	enter	each	food	and	the	exact	
quantity	 consumed	 into	the	program	 (Appendix	 G).	If	a	food	is	not	found	in	the	data-
base,	an	appropriate 	substitute 	may	be	used	or	the	food	may	be	broken	down	into	its	
individual	 ingredients.	 For	example,	 homemade	 vegetable	 soup	could	be	entered	 as	
generic	vegetable	 soup,	or	as	vegetable	 broth,	carrots,	green	beans,	rice,	and	so	on.	If	
a	new	product	 has	come	on	the	market,	 the	information	 from	the	food	label	may	be	
added	to	the	database.	 The	program	 can	calculate	 nutrient	 intake	for	each	day	or	
average	them	over	several	days.	It	can	also	compare	 nutrient	 intake	to	recommended 	
amounts.
	 Computer	 analysis	has	several	limitations.	 It	is	not	available	 to	everyone,	 and	may	be	
prohibitive	due	to	the	lack	of	computer	equipment	 and/or	the	cost.	 Most	computer	 pro-
grams	have	a	limited	number	 of	foods	in	the	database,	 which	may	cause	a	problem	 when	
a	certain	degree	of	accuracy	 is	needed.	 However,	 this	may	be	overcome	 by	choosing	 a	
good	program	 and	having	a	good	knowledge	 of	foods,	so	that	adequate	 substitutions	
may	be	made.
Other methods of assessing nutritional health
The	other	components	 of	nutritional	 assessment	 include	 anthropometric	 measure-
ments,	laboratory	 measurements,	 and	clinical	assessments.	 Each	of	these	assessment	
methods	provides	a	unique	perspective	of	an	individual’s	nutritional	status.

322		 Energy consumption and output
Height, weight, and body size
Anthropometric	 measurement	 assesses	 physical	 dimensions	 and	body	composition. 	
Common	 examples	 of	anthropometric	 measurements	 include	health,	weight,	and	body	
size.	These	measurements	 can	be	compared	 with	population	 standards	 or	used	to	monitor	
changes	 in	an	individual	 over	time.	If	an	individual’s	 measurements	 differ	significantly 	
from	standards, 	it	could	indicate	health	problems. 	For	example, 	weight	is	often	used	to	
assess	a	person’s	 risk	for	certain	chronic	diseases,	 such	as	heart	disease	and	type	2	diabetes,	
because	being	overweight	 or	obese	can	lead	to	many	health	problems,	 especially	 as	he	or	
she	ages.	Height	and	weight	are	also	used	to	assess	nutritional	 status	in	infants	and	chil-
dren	and	are	typically	 measured	 shortly	after	birth	and	throughout	 childhood.	 For	
example,	 children	 who	are	small	for	their	age	may	have	a	nutritional	 deficiency,	 although 	
this	information	 should	be	evaluated	 only	within	the	context	of	their	personal	 and	family	
history.	Those	who	are	smaller	than	the	standard	 may	simply	have	inherited	 their	small	
body	size	or	may	be	considered 	adequately 	nourished 	if	they	have	never	weighed	more	
than	their	current	weight	and	are	otherwise	 healthy.	Chapter 	12 	provides	 more	details	with	
regard	to	the	assessment	of	body	composition,	i.e.,	percentage	of	body	fat.
Clinical assessments
Nutritional	 status	can	be	evaluated	 using	a	clinical	assessment.	 During	this	procedure,	
the	clinician	 or	researcher	 takes	a	medical	history	to	obtain	information	 about	previous	
disease,	weight	loss	and/or	gain,	surgeries,	 medications,	 and	other	relevant	 information	
such	as	family	history.	Specifically,	 the	health	care	provider	 asks	the	patient	whether	 he	
or	she	has	been	experiencing	 any	unusual	 symptoms	 such	as	lack	of	energy,	blurred	
vision,	or	loss	of	appetite.	 Because	 these	symptoms	 are	not	observable	 by	others	and	can	
only	be	reported	by	the	patient,	symptoms	are	often	overlooked.
	 The	medical	 history	is	typically	 followed	 by	a	physical	 examination	 to	determine	
whether	 there	are	visible	signs	of	a	health	problem.	 In	a	physical	 examination,	 all	areas	
of	the	body	including	 the	mouth,	skin,	hair,	eyes,	and	fingernails	 are	examined	 for	
indications	 of	poor	nutrition	 status.	 Signs	of	illness	are	different	 from	 symptoms ,	
because	signs	can	be	seen	by	others,	whereas	symptoms	 are	what	the	patient	experiences,	
which	may	be	more	subjective.	 Some	signs	may	indicate	 poor	nutritional	 status,	such	as	
skin	rashes,	swollen	ankles	or	edema,	or	bleeding	 gums.	Physical	 examinations	 almost	
always	include	anthropometric	 measurements	 such	as	height	and	weight.	Determining	
whether	 the	signs	or	symptoms	 noted	in	a	physical	 examination	 are	due	to	malnutrition	
requires	 that	they	be	evaluated	 in	conjunction	 with	the	results	of	laboratory	 measure-
ments	and	within	the	context	of	each	individual’s	medical	history.
	 Clinical	 assessment	 has	its	advantages;	 for	example,	 it	is	the	only	way	that	health	care	
providers	 can	ask	questions	 concerning	 symptoms	 of	malnutrition.	 Furthermore,	 signs	
of	some	extreme	 forms	of	malnutrition	 are	very	distinct,	 and	observation	 of	them	can	
make	clinical	diagnosis	 of	a	particular	 nutrient	 deficiency	 or	toxicity	relatively	 accurate.	
However,	 because	 signs	and	symptoms	 of	many	nutrient	 deficiencies	 are	not	apparent	
until	they	become	severe,	clinical	assessment	 may	not	be	adequate	 when	malnutrition	 is	
more	moderate	in	nature.
Laboratory measurements
Measures 	of	nutrients 	or	their	metabolic 	by-	products	in	the	body	such	as	blood	and	urine	
may	be	used	to	detect	nutrient	 deficiencies	 or	toxicities	 when	compared	 with	standard	 ref-
erence	values	(Table	13.2).	They 	require	laboratory	 analysis	of	biological	 samples	taken	

Energy consumption and output 		323
from	blood	or	urine.	In	some	cases,	the	sample	is	analyzed	 for	a	specific	nutrient.	 Blood	
concentrations	 of	calcium	and	vitamin	D	are	often	measured	 to	assess	the	risk	for	oste-
oporosis	especially 	in	women	who	are	approaching 	the	menopause. 	To	assess	whether	the	
body	maintains	 its	muscle	mass,	one	can	determine	 urinary	concentration	 of	creatinine ,	a	
by-	product	of	skeletal	muscle	catabolism. 	Because	blood	carries	newly	absorbed 	nutrients	
to	the	cells	of	the	body,	the	amounts	of	some	nutrients 	in	the	blood	may	reflect	the	
amounts	 in	the	current	diet	rather	than	the	total	body	status	of	the	nutrient.	 In	this	case,	it	
may	be	necessary	 to	analyze	the	cells	in	the	blood	or	other	tissues	for	indications	 of	
abnormal	 function	 such	as	altered	rates	of	chemical	 reactions.	 For	example,	 vitamin	B6	is	
needed	for	chemical 	reactions 	involved	in	amino	acid	metabolism. 	When	vitamin	B6	is	
deficient,	the	rate	of	these	reactions	will	be	slower	than	normal.
Table 13.2 	Normal	blood	values	or	reference	range	of	nutritional	relevance
Test variable Value/reference range
Acidity	(pH) 7.35–7.45
Alcohol 0	mg/dL
Ammonia 15–50	 µg	of	nitrogen/dL
Bicarbonate 18–23	mEq/L	(carbon	dioxide	content)
Blood	volume 8.5–9.1%	of	total	body	weight
Calcium 8.2–10.6	mg/dL
Carotene 48–200	 µg/L
Chloride 100–108	mEq/L
Copper 70–150	 µg/dL
Creatinine 0.6–1.2	mg/dL
Folate 2–20	ng/ml
Glucose	(fasting) 70–110	mg/dL
Hematocrit Men:	45–55%;	women:	37–48%
Hemoglobin Men:	14–18	 g/dL;	women:	12–16	 g/dL
Iron Men:	75–175	 µg/dL;	women:	65–165	 µg/dL
Lactate	(lactic	acid) Venous:	4.5–20	 mg/dL;	arterial:	4.5–14.4	 mg/dL
Lipids Cholesterol:	<200	 mg/dL
LDL	cholesterol:	<130	 mg/dL
HDL	cholesterol:	 ≥40	mg/dL
Triglycerides:	<150	 mg/dL
Magnesium 1.8–3.0	mEq/L
Oxygen	partial	pressure 83–100	mmHg
Oxygen	saturation	(arterial) 96–100%
Phosphorous 3.5–5.4	mg/dL
Platelet 150,000–350,000/mL
Potassium 3.5–5.0	mEq/L
Proteins Total:	6.0–8.4	 g/dL
Albumin:	3.0–4.0	 g/dL
Globulin:	2.3–3.5	 g/dL
Red	blood	cells Men:	4.6–6.2	million/mm3;	women:	4.2–5.2	million/mm3
Sodium 135–145	mEq/L
Urea	nitrogen	(BUN) 7–18	mg/dL
Vitamin	A 30–70	 µg/dL
Vitamin	B6 5–50	 µg/L
Vitamin	B12 200–800	pg/dL	
Vitamin	C 0.6–2.0	mg/dL
Vitamin	D	(25-hydroxyvitamin	D) 20–100	ng/mL
White	blood	cells 4500–10,000/mm3
Zinc 0.75–1.4	 µg/ml

324		 Energy consumption and output
	 There	 are	advantages	 and	disadvantages	 of	using	laboratory	 measurements.	 On	the	
positive	side,	laboratory	 measurements	 can	help	diagnose	 a	specific	nutrient	 deficiency	 or	
detect	a	potential	 health	problem,	 whereas	other	methods	 of	nutritional	 analysis	cannot.	
Laboratory	 data	have	been	heavily	used	to	evaluate	 risk	for	nutrition-	 related	chronic	dis-
eases.	For	example,	 risks	for	cardiovascular	 diseases	may	be	assessed	by	measuring	 levels	of	
cholesterol	 in	the	blood.	Measuring	 the	amount	of	glucose	in	the	blood	may	be	used	to	
diagnose	 diabetes.	 However,	 collecting	 and	analyzing	 biological	 samples	require	technical 	
expertise	 and	are	considered	 costly	procedures.	 In	addition,	 many	factors	such	as	time	of	
day,	age,	sex,	activity	patterns,	and	use	of	certain	drugs	can	influence 	the	level	of	nutrients	
or	their	biomarkers	 in	blood	or	urine.	These	extraneous	 factors	must	be	taken	into	con-
sideration	when	interpreting	results	of	laboratory	measurements.
Assessing energy expenditure and substrate utilization
Interest	in	monitoring	 energy	expenditure	 and	respiratory	 gas	exchange	 during	physical	
activity	can	be	traced	back	almost	100	years	ago	when	Haldane	 and	Douglas,	 in	prepara-
tion	for	the	1911	Anglo-	American	 expedition	 to	Pike’s	Peak	in	Colorado,	 developed	 the	
“Douglas	 bag”	method	that	measures	 oxygen	consumption	 and	carbon	dioxide	produc-
tion.	Since	then	a	wide	range	of	electronic	 and	computer-	 assisted	metabolic	 systems	have	
been	developed,	 which	allow	a	precise	quantification	 of	energy	expenditure	 during	
various	physical	activities.	 In	today’s	world	where	physical	inactivity	 often	plays	a	contrib-
uting	role	in	the	development	 of	many	chronic	 diseases,	 such	technological	 advance-
ment	has	enabled	 us	not	only	to	simply	quantify	 the	energy	cost	of	an	activity,	but	also	to	
assess	the	association	 between	 physical	 activity	and	health	and	the	effectiveness	 of	inter-
ventions	aimed	at	increasing	physical	activity	in	order	to	treat	or	prevent	diseases.
Laboratory approaches
In	general,	 in	the	laboratory	 setting	there	are	two	techniques	 employed	 in	the	meas-
urement	 of	energy	expenditure	 and	substrate	 utilization:	 (1)	direct	calorimetry,	 and	
(2)	indirect	calorimetry.
Direct calorimetry
Energy	metabolism	 may	be	defined	as	the	rate	of	heat	production.	 This	definition	 recog-
nizes	the	fact	that,	when	the	body	uses	energy	to	do	work,	heat	is	liberated.	 This	produc-
tion	of	heat	occurs	through	 cellular	respiration	 and	mechanical	 work.	 Direct calorimetry  
involves	the	measurement	 of	heat	produced	 during	metabolism.	 This	technique	 works	in	a	
similar	manner	to	the	bomb	calorimeter	 mentioned	 in	Chapter 	8, 	except	it	is	large	enough	
to	allow	an	individual	 to	live	and	work	for	a	certain	period	of	time	(Figure	13.3).	Energy	
expenditure 	during	muscular 	exercise	can	be	measured 	by	installing 	an	exercise	device	
such	as	a	treadmill,	 bicycle	ergometer,	 etc.	in	the	chamber.	 In	this	insulated	 calorimeter,	 a	
thin	copper	sheet	lines	the	interior	wall	to	which	heat	exchangers	 are	attached.	 A	known	
amount	of	water	circulates	 through	 the	heat	exchanger	 regularly	 absorbing	 the	heat	radi-
ated	from	the	subject	in	the	chamber,	 which	reflects	the	metabolic	 rate	of	that	person.	
Insulation	 protects	 the	entire	chamber	 so	that	any	change	in	water	temperature	 relates	
directly	to	the	individual’s	 energy	metabolism.	 The	air	is	recirculated,	 and	carbon	dioxide	
and	water	are	filtered	out	of	the	air	before	it	re-	enters	the	chamber,	 together	 with	added	
oxygen.	 The	direct	measurement	 of	heat	production	 in	humans	 is	proven	to	be	very	
precise	based	on	the	well-	defined	concept	that	1	calorie	is	equivalent	 to	the	amount	of	heat	
needed	to	raise	1	gram	of	water	by	1°C.	However, 	its	application 	is	limited	because	the	

Energy consumption and output 		325
technique	 requires	 considerable	 time,	expense,	 and	engineering	 expertise	 in	operating 	
and	maintaining	 the	equipment.	 In	addition,	 though	to	a	much	lesser	extent,	the	results	of	
this	technique 	could	be	affected	in	that	not	all	the	heat	produced 	is	liberated 	into	the	
environment	 that	can	be	captured	 and	there	will	be	extra	heat	produced	 due	to	the	opera-
tion	of	the	exercise	equipment	itself	which	does	not	result	from	metabolism.
Indirect calorimetry
Indirect calorimetry 	is	the	method	by	which	measurement	 of	whole-	body	respiratory	 gas	
exchange	 is	used	to	estimate	 the	amount	 of	energy	produced	 through	 the	oxidative	
process.	 The	rationale	 behind	indirect	 calorimetry	 is	that	virtually	 all	bioenergetic	 pro-
cesses	are	oxygen	dependent	 (Ravussin	 and	Rising	1992).	Indirect	 calorimetry	 differs	
from	direct	calorimetry	in	 that	it	determines	how	 much	oxygen	 is	required	for	biological	
combustion	 to	be	completed,	 whereas	 the	latter	measures	 directly	the	heat	that	is	pro-
duced	as	a	result	of	metabolism.	 The	principle	 of	indirect	calorimetry	 may	be	explained	
by	the	following	relationship:
Substrate	 +	O2 ←→ Heat	+	CO2	+	H2O
In	light	of	this	direct	relationship	 between	 oxygen	consumption	 and	the	amount	of	heat	
produced,	 it	makes	sense	that	measuring	 the	amount	 of	oxygen	consumed	 can	be	a	
logical	replacement	for	measuring	the	heat	produced	as	a	result	of	biological	oxidation.Water flo ws through copper coilsThermometer
Heat e xchanger
Oxygen supply
Cooling circuitAir-out Air-in
CO2 absorber
Figure 13.3 	Direct	calorimetry	chamber
Source:	Jeukendrup	and	Gleeson	(2010).	Used	with	permission.

326		 Energy consumption and output
	 In	order	to	convert	the	amount	of	oxygen	consumed	 into	heat	equivalents,	 it	is	neces-
sary	to	know	the	type	of	energy	substrates	 that	are	metabolized,	 i.e.,	carbohydrate	 and	
fat.	The	energy	liberated	 when	fat	is	the	only	substrate	 being	oxidized	 is	19.7	kJ	or	
4.7	kcal	per	liter	of	oxygen	used.	However,	 the	energy	released	 when	carbohydrate	 is	the	
only	fuel	being	oxidized	 is	21.1	kJ	or	5.05	kcal	per	liter	of	oxygen	used.	Although	 less	
accurate,	 energy	expenditure	 of	exercise	 is	often	estimated	 by	using	5	kcal	or	21	kJ	per	
liter	of	oxygen	used.	Therefore,	 a	person	exercising	 at	oxygen	consumption	 of	2.0	
liters min–1	would	expend	approximately	 42	kJ	or	10	kcal	of	energy	per	minute.	Despite	
being	simplistic,	 this	assumed	 value	of	energy	equivalency	 should	be	used	with	caution	
because	 it	implies	that	over	95	percent	of	the	energy	comes	from	oxidation	 of	carbohy-
drate.	In	reality	this	may	not	always	be	the	case,	as	the	level	of	carbohydrate	 oxidation	
should	be	much	lower	when	exercise	 is	performed	 at	low	intensities.	 Consequently,	 it	
has	been	suggested	 to	use	an	energy	equivalent	 of	4.825	kcal	per	liter	of	oxygen	for	occa-
sions	such	as	resting	or	low-	 intensity,	steady-	 state	exercises	such	as	walking.
	 With	indirect	calorimetry,	 subjects	are	required	 to	inhale	ambient	 air	with	a	constant	
composition	 of	20.93	percent	oxygen,	0.03	percent	carbon	dioxide,	 and	79.04	percent	
nitrogen.	 Volume	of	O2	consumed	 or	VO2	is	determined	 from	the	change	in	volume	of	
oxygen	inspired	compared	with	the	volume	of	oxygen	expired	shown	as	follows:
Volume	of	O2	consumed	 =	volume	of	O2	inspired	 –	volume	of	O2	expired
The	laboratory	 equipment	 used	to	measure	 oxygen	consumption	 is	illustrated	 in	
Figure	13.4. 	The	volume	of	air	inspired	 and	expired	is	measured	 with	a	gas	meter	which	
is	attached	 to	a	subject	through	 a	flexible	hose	and	a	face-	fitting	mask.	The	expired	gas	
from	the	subject	is	analyzed	 for	the	fractions	 of	oxygen	and	carbon	dioxide	by	electronic	
gas	analyzers.	 Results	are	then	sent	to	a	computer	 that	is	programmed	 to	perform	 the	
necessary	calculations	of	VO2	and	other	metabolic	parameters.
Figure 13.4 	An	open-circuit	indirect	calorimetry	system
Source:	Medical	Graphics	Corporation.


Energy consumption and output 		327
	 The	technology	 of	indirect	calorimetry	 has	become	increasingly	 sophisticated	 during	
recent	years.	A	room-	sized	chamber	 has	now	been	made	available	 based	on	the	principle	
of	open-	circuit	indirect	 calorimetry.	 Such	a	chamber	 appears	 similar	to	the	chamber	
used	as	direct	calorimetry	 but	without	the	coils	to	measure	 heat	exchange.	 It	has	all	the	
basic	furniture	 and	utilities	necessary	 to	carry	out	various	daily	functions	 so	that	meas-
urements	 can	be	made	in	a	real-	life	situation.	 The	chamber	 is	equipped	 with	the	instru-
mentations	 that	can	measure	 oxygen	uptake	and	carbon	dioxide,	 as	well	as	pulmonary	
ventilation,	 and	these	measurements	 can	be	performed	 continuously	 for	an	extended	
period	of	time.	By	using	this	large	chamber,	 all	components	 of	daily	energy	expenditure	
may	be	assessed.	 They	include	basal	metabolic	 rate	(BMR),	sleeping	 metabolism,	 energy	
cost	of	arousal	(basal	metabolic	 rate	minus	sleeping	 metabolism),	 thermal	 effect	of	
meals,	and	the	energy	cost	of	physical	activities.
	 Although	 indirect	calorimetry	 does	not	involve	the	direct	measurement	 of	heat	produc-
tion,	this	technique	 is	still	considered	 relatively	 accurate	 in	reflecting	 energy	metabolism 	
and	substrate	 oxidation.	 In	fact,	this	technique	 has	been	extensively	 used	as	a	criterion	
measure	 in	validation	 studies	aimed	at	developing	 a	new	field-	based	method	for	quanti-
fying	energy	expenditure.	 Compared	 to	direct	calorimetry,	 this	indirect	approach	 is	relat-
ively	simpler	 to	operate	 and	less	expensive	 to	maintain	 and	staff.	With	the	recent	
emergence	 of	portable	 versions,	 this	technique	 may	also	be	used	under	many	free-	living	
conditions	such	as	common	household	and	garden	tasks	and	leisure	physical	activities.
Measurement of substrate oxidation
In	addition	 to	quantifying	 energy	expenditure,	 indirect	calorimetry	 provides	 a	means	of	
estimating	 the	composition	 of	fuels	oxidized.	 This	is	accomplished	 by	determining	 the	
ratio	of	volume	of	CO2	produced	 to	volume	of	O2	consumed,	 which	is	referred	 as	the	
respiratory quotient 	(RQ).	Due	to	structural	 differences	 in	the	composition	 of	carbo-
hydrates,	 lipids,	and	proteins,	 complete	 oxidation	 of	each	nutrient	 requires	 different	
amounts	 of	oxygen	and	produces	 different	 amounts	 of	carbon	dioxide.	 For	example,	 the	
oxidation	 of	1	gram	of	glucose	requires	 0.746	L	oxygen	and	produces	 0.743	L	carbon	
dioxide,	 and	as	a	result,	RQ	is	close	to	1.	On	the	other	hand,	the	oxidation	 of	1	gram	of	
free	fatty	acid	(palamitic	 acid)	requires	 2.009	L	O2	and	produces	 1.414	L	CO2,	and,	as	a	
result,	RQ	is	close	to	0.7.	Differences	 in	RQ	caused	by	carbohydrate	 and	fat	oxidation	
are	also	illustrated	in	the	following	oxidative	chemical	reactions:
Glucose	C6H12O6	+	6O2 →	6	CO2	+	6	H2O	 RQ	=	6CO2	÷	6O2	=	1
Palmitic	acid	C16H32O2	+	23O2 →	16	CO2	+	16	H2O	 RQ	 =	16CO2	÷	23O2	=	0.7
RQ	serves	as	a	convenient	 measure	 to	provide	quantitative	 information	 on	the	relative	
contributions	 of	energy	nutrients	 to	the	total	energy	provision	 at	rest	and	during	steady-	
state	exercise.	 If	RQ	is	found	to	be	equal	to	1,	then	all	energy	is	derived	from	oxidation	
of	carbohydrate	 energy	substrates.	 If	RQ	is	found	to	be	equal	to	0.7,	then	all	energy	is	
derived	from	oxidation	 of	fat	energy	substrates.	 It	is,	however,	 very	unlikely	 that	fat	or	
carbohydrate	 would	be	the	only	fuel	used	in	most	circumstances.	 In	fact,	during	rest	and	
submaximal	 exercise,	 RQ	is	often	found	to	be	somewhere	 between	 0.7	and	1.0.	Table 	
13.3	lists	a	range	of	RQ	values	and	corresponding	 percentages	 of	energy	derived	from	
fat	or	carbohydrate	 oxidation,	 which	was	first	published	 by	American	 nutrition	 scientist	
Graham	 Lusk	(1924).	This	table	also	illustrates	 the	caloric equivalent of oxygen 	corre-
sponding	 to	each	RQ	value.	The	caloric	equivalent	 of	oxygen	is	defined	as	the	number	
of	calories	 produced	 for	each	liter	of	oxygen	used,	and	as	shown	in	Table 	13.3 	this	
parameter	 is	subject	to	the	change	in	composition	 of	carbohydrate	 and	fat	oxidation.	

328		 Energy consumption and output
The	number	 of	calories	 produced	 from	one	liter	of	oxygen	used	is	less	when	fat	is	
burned	(i.e.,	4.69	kcal/liter	 O2)	as	compared	 to	carbohydrate	 (i.e.,	5.05	kcal/liter	 O2).	In	
order	to	determine	 energy	expenditure	 accurately,	 we	need	to	know	not	only	the	level	
of	oxygen	uptake,	but	also	the	composition	of	energy	fuels	being	utilized.
	 RQ	represents	 gas	exchange	 across	the	blood–cell	 barrier	within	an	organ	or	tissue	
bed.	Thus,	direct	measurement	 of	this	parameter	 can	be	difficult	because	it	requires	 an	
invasive	 medical	 procedure.	 However,	 this	methodological	 limitation	 is	overcome	 by	
determining	 VO2	and	VCO2	at	the	lungs	using	indirect	 calorimetry.	 To	recognize	 the	
fact	that	VO2	and	VCO2	were	measured	 at	the	lungs,	the	respiratory exchange ratio  
(RER)	is	used	instead	of	RQ.	RQ	and	RER	depict	the	same	ratio,	but	RER	may	be	inter-
preted	as	the	ratio	of	VCO2/VO2	corresponding	 to	metabolism	 of	the	overall	body	rather	
than	a	specific	tissue	bed,	and	is	typically	determined	using	indirect	calorimetry.
	 Caution	 should	be	used	in	situations	 where	one	measures	 RER,	but	uses	the	RQ	table	for	
quantifying	 substrate	 utilization.	 First,	the	RQ	table	was	developed	 based	on	the	assumption 	
that	the	amount	of	protein	oxidized	is	small	and	negligible, 	or	it	can	be	corrected 	for	the	
oxidation	 of	protein	computed	 from	nitrogen	 excretion	 in	urine	and	sweat	(Ferrannini 	
1988,	Frayn	1983).	Second,	 application	 of	RQ	assumes	 that	oxygen	and	carbon	dioxide	Table 13.3 		Thermal	 equivalents	 of	oxygen	for	the	non-protein	 respiratory	 quotient	 (RQ)	and	
percentages	of	calories	derived	from	carbohydrate	and	fat
Non-protein RQ Kcal per LO2 % carbohydrate % fat
0.70 4.686 0.0 100.0
0.71 4.690 1.1 98.9
0.72 4.702 4.8 95.2
0.73 4.714 8.4 91.6
0.74 4.727 12.0 88.0
0.75 4.739 15.6 84.4
0.76 4.750 19.2 80.8
0.77 4.764 22.8 77.2
0.78 4.776 26.3 73.7
0.79 4.788 29.9 70.1
0.80 4.801 33.4 66.6
0.81 4.813 36.9 63.1
0.82 4.825 40.3 59.7
0.83 4.838 43.8 56.2
0.84 4.850 47.2 52.8
0.85 4.862 50.7 49.3
0.86 4.875 54.1 45.9
0.87 4.887 57.5 42.5
0.88 4.889 60.8 39.2
0.89 4.911 64.2 35.8
0.90 4.924 67.5 32.5
0.91 4.936 70.8 29.2
0.92 4.948 74.1 25.9
0.93 4.961 77.4 22.6
0.94 4.973 80.7 19.3
0.95 4.985 84.0 16.0
0.96 4.998 87.2 12.8
0.97 5.010 90.4 9.6
0.98 5.022 93.6 6.4
0.99 5.035 96.8 3.2
1.00 5.047 100.0 0.0

Energy consumption and output 		329
exchange	 measured	 at	the	lungs	reflects	the	actual	gas	exchange	 from	macronutrient 	
metabolism	 within	tissues.	In	this	regard,	exercise	intensity	 could	be	of	concern.	 It	has	been	
found	that	this	assumption	 works	well	during	exercise	of	light	to	moderate	 intensity.	 During	
heavy	exercise,	 however,	 VCO2	measured	 at	the	lungs	represents	 not	only	those	produced 	
during	energy	metabolism,	 but	also	those	derived	from	buffering	 of	metabolic	 acid,	which	
increases	 at	a	greater	rate	during	high-	intensity	 exercise.	 Consequently,	 the	use	of	RER	
would	no	longer	be	accurate	in	reflecting 	the	pattern	of	substrate	utilization. 	Finally,	the	
use	of	RER	may	not	be	adequate 	for	those	with	pulmonary 	disorders 	as	well	because	the	
pattern	of	gas	exchange	at	the	lungs	may	be	altered	due	to	obstructive	ventilation.
Field- based techniques
The	traditional	 chamber	 and	calorimetry	 technology	 may	be	inadequate	 for	reasons	
such	as	cost,	instrumentations,	 and	time	necessary	 in	running	 the	test.	It	is	also	very	diffi-
cult	to	use	these	sophisticated	 approaches	 to	capture	 the	complexity	 of	activities	 in	
which	people	are	engaged	 as	they	go	about	their	daily	lives.	Consequently,	 there	have	
been	many	attempts	 to	develop	relatively	 simple	and	more	convenient	 methods	 to	allow	
energy	demands	 associated	 with	free-	living	activities	 to	be	determined.	 Of	those	
methods,	 the	doubly	labeled	water	technique,	 motion	sensors,	 heart	rate	monitoring,	
and	physical	 activity	questionnaires	 or	logs	are	perhaps	 the	most	common	 attempts	 for	
which	their	validity	and	reliability	 have	been	highly	investigated.	 These	field-	based	
approaches	 enable	us	to	track	our	physical	 activity	participation	 in	many	free-	living	con-
ditions.	Although	 field-	based	techniques	 provide	a	convenient	 approach	 to	the	measure-
ment	of	energy	expenditure,	 they	generally	 do	not	measure	 or	distinguish	 metabolism	
of	energy	substrates	such	as	carbohydrate	and	fat.
Doubly labeled water technique
The	use	of	doubly labeled water 	for	assessing	 energy	expenditure	 in	humans	 was	first	
reported	 by	Schoeller	 and	Santen	(1982).	 This	technique	 requires	 the	subject	to	
consume	 a	quantity	 of	water	containing	 a	known	concentration	 of	the	stable	isotopes	 of	
hydrogen	 (2H	or	deuterium)	 and	oxygen	(18O	or	oxygen-	18).	The	term	 isotope  means 
one	of	two	or	more	species	of	the	same	chemical	 element	 that	have	different	 atomic	
weights	(Shier	 et al.	1999).	Isotopes	 have	nuclei	with	the	same	number	 of	protons	but	
varying	numbers	 of	neutrons.	 Stable	isotopes	 denote	those	whose	nuclei	will	not	emit	
radiation	 and	thus	are	not	radioactive.	 Both2H	and18O	are	used	as	tracers,	as	they	are	
slightly	heavier	and	can	be	measured	 within	various	body	compartments.	 For	example,	
through	 oxidative	 metabolism,	 labeled	hydrogen	 is	lost	as2H2O	in	sweat,	urine,	and	water	
vapor	during	respiration,	 while	labeled	oxygen	leaves	as	H218O	in	water	and	C18O2 in 
expired	air.	A	mass	spectrometer	 is	then	used	to	determine	 the	difference	 in	excretion	
rate	between	 the	two	tracers	and	such	difference	 then	represents	 the	rate	of	carbon	
dioxide	production.	 Oxygen	uptake	is	further	estimated	 from	VCO2	as	well	as	RQ,	which	
is	often	assumed	to	be	0.85	(Black	 et al.	1986).
	 The	primary	 advantage	 of	using	this	technique	 to	measure	 total	energy	expenditure	
is	that	it	does	not	interfere	 with	everyday	 life	and	thus	may	be	used	in	a	variety	of	free-	
living	settings.	 The	fact	that	this	technique	 is	not	constrained	 by	time	would	allow	an	
acquisition	 of	the	typical	daily	energy	expenditure.	 To	date,	the	technique	 has	been	
used	in	circumstances	 such	as	bed	rest	and	during	prolonged	 activities	 like	climbing	
Mount	Everest,	 cycling	the	Tour	de	France,	 rowing	and	endurance	 running,	 and	
swimming	 (Hill	and	Davis	2002,	Stroud	 et al.	1997,	Mudambo	 et al.	1997).	The	potential	
drawbacks	 of	this	technique	 include	the	high	cost	of	the18O	and	both	the	expense	 and	

330		 Energy consumption and output
specialized	 expertise	 required	 for	the	analysis	of	the	isotope	concentrations	 in	body	
fluids	by	a	mass	spectrometer.	As	measurement	is	often	taken	over	a	long	period	of	time,	
no	information	is	obtained	about	brief	periods	of	peak	energy	expenditure.
Motion sensors
Motion	sensors	are	mechanical	 and	electronic	 devices	that	capture	motion	or	accelera-
tion	of	a	limb	or	trunk,	depending	 on	where	the	device	is	attached	 to	the	body.	There	
are	several	different	 types	of	motion	sensors	that	range	in	cost	and	complexity	 from	the	
pedometer	 to	the	triaxial	accelerometer.	 The	pedometer	 is	a	relatively	 simple	device	
used	primarily	 to	measure	 walking	distance.	 It	may	be	clipped	to	a	belt	or	worn	on	the	
wrist	and	ankle	(Figure	13.5).	 Pedometers 	count	the	motion	by	responding	 to	vertical	
acceleration.	 The	early	version	of	this	instrument	 is	merely	mechanic	 in	that	it	has	a	
lever	arm	attached	 to	a	gear,	which	rotates	each	time	the	lever	arm	clicks.	The	horizon-
tal	spring-	suspended	 lever	arm	moves	vertically	 up	and	down	as	a	result	of	each	step	
being	made.	More	sophisticated	 pedometers	 are	now	commercially	 available.	 They	rely	
on	the	use	of	a	micro-	electromechanical	 system	(MEMS)	 comprised	 of	inertia	sensors	
and	computer	 software	 to	detect	steps.	These	pedometers	 are	battery	operated	 and	have	
digital	readouts	 that	can	display	not	only	the	total	steps	and	distance,	 but	also	values	in	
calories.	 Some	of	them	can	be	adjusted	 for	stride	length	so	that	walking	distance	 may	be	
more	precisely	calculated.
	 Pedometers	 are	generally	 small,	low	in	cost,	and	may	be	used	in	epidemiological	
studies	that	deal	with	a	large-	scale	population	 (Table 	13.4). 	However,	 this	wearable	
device	has	a	number	 of	limitations	 when	used	as	a	research	 tool.	It	is	unable	to	distin-
guish	vertical	accelerations	 above	a	certain	threshold,	 and	thus	cannot	discriminate	
walking	from	running	 or	different	 levels	of	exercise	 intensity	 (Bassett	2000).	In	terms	of	
converting	 steps	into	energy	expenditure,	 this	device	works	on	the	assumption	 that	a	
person	expends	 a	constant	 amount	 of	energy	per	step.	In	Yamax	pedometers,	 for	
example,	 this	constant	 is	assumed	 to	be	0.55	cal/kg/step	 regardless	 how	fast	the	person	
is	moving	(Hatano	 1993).	It	is	also	important	 to	note	that	for	activities	 that	do	not	
involve	locomotion,	 such	as	cycling	or	upper-	body	exercise,	 the	unit	may	need	to	be	
attached	to	the	body	part	that	is	moving.
Figure 13.5 	Examples	of	digital	pedometers

Table 13.4		Advantages	and	disadvantages	of	various	objective	field	methods	for	assessing	physical	activity	and	energy	expenditure
Method Advantages Disadvantages
Pedometers •	Small	in	size
•	Low	cost
•	Suitable	for	epidemiological•	Unable	to	detect	acceleration
•	Unable	to	quantify	intensity,	duration,	and	frequency
•		Unable	to	detect	certain	movements	such	as	weight-lifting,	cycling,	
and	up-body	exercise
Accelerometers •	Small	in	size
•	Detect	the	rate	of	movement	or	acceleration
•		Able	to	provide	information	on	intensity,	duration,	
and	frequency•	Questionable	in	converting	motion	data	into	energy	expenditure
•		Unable	to	detect	certain	movements	such	as	weight-lifting,	cycling,	
and	up-body	exercise
•		Unable	to	discriminate	walking/running	performed	on	soft	or	
graded	terrain
HR	monitors •	Correlate	closely	with	VO2
•		Measure	all	movements	including	those	that	cannot	
be	detected	by	motion	sensors
•		Able	to	provide	information	on	intensity,	duration,	
and	frequency•	Weak	relation	with	VO2	in	low-intensity	domain
•		Require	individual	calibration	curves	for	accurate	estimates	of	
energy	expenditure
•		HR	subject	to	change	in	stress,	body	posture,	dehydration,	
environmental	temperature	
Combining	motion	
HR	monitoring•		Overcome	major	weakness	associated	with	motion	
sensors	and	HR	monitors	in	addition	to	the	
advantages	mentioned	above	•	Time-consuming	in	data	analysis
•	Cost	prohibitive
•		Necessary	to	validate	the	use	of	algorithm	to	estimate	energy	
expenditure	using	large	and	heterogeneous	samples	and	during	
various	activities

332		 Energy consumption and output
	 It	should	also	be	noted	that	only	a	very	small	percentage	 of	the	population	
(~2	percent)	 own	a	wearable	 device,	which	limits	its	application	 in	promoting	 physical	
activity.	However,	 the	movement	 sensor	used	for	pedometers	 is	now	being	installed	 in	
most	smartphones	 loaded	with	activity	or	fitness	apps.	Considering	 that	nearly	two-	thirds	
of	adults	in	the	United	States	own	a	smartphone,	 this	technological	 advancement	 can	
have	a	profound	 effect	in	enhancing	 public	awareness	 of	physical	 activity.	Just	as	wear-
able	devices,	these	smartphones	 are	also	able	to	store	data	over	a	specific	time	period.	A	
recent	study	has	also	found	that	smartphones	 are	just	as	accurate	 as	wristband	 pedome-
ters	in	detecting	steps	and	daily	activity	(Case	 et al.	2015).
 Accelerometers 	are	more	sophisticated	 electronic	 devices	that	measure	 acceleration	
made	by	body	movement.	 Unlike	pedometers,	 accelerometers	 are	able	to	detect	the	rate	
of	movement	 or	the	intensity	 of	exercise,	 as	acceleration	 is	directly	proportional	 to	mus-
cular	force	being	exerted.	 Accelerometers	 can	also	measure	 acceleration	 in	one	(uniax-
ial)	or	three	(triaxial)	 planes.	 Although	 a	variety	of	different	 models	 are	now	
commercially	 available,	 the	CaltracTM	and	Computer	 Science	ApplicationsTM	(CSA)	are	
the	two	most	commonly	 used	uniaxial	 accelerometers,	 whereas	 the	Tritrac	R3DTM	and	
TracmorTM	are	the	two	more	commonly	 used	triaxial	accelerometers	 (Ainslie	 et al.	2003).	
Structurally,	 the	accelerometer	 is	equipped	 with	a	transducer	 made	of	piezoceramic	
material	 with	a	brass	center	layer.	When	the	body	accelerates	 the	transducer,	 which	is	
mounted	 in	a	cantilever	 beam	position,	 bends,	producing	 an	electrical	 charge	that	is	
proportional	 to	the	force	being	exerted	by	the	subject.	This	creates	an	acceleration–
deceleration	 wave	and	the	area	under	this	wave	is	summed	 and	converted	 into	digital	
signals	referred	 to	as	“counts.”	 Results	can	be	displayed	 on	a	screen	as	an	accumulated	
total	or	downloaded	 as	raw	data	to	be	further	analyzed.	 Most	current	models	also	have	
the	ability	to	display	the	level	of	accumulated	 energy	expenditure	 for	an	extended	
period	of	time.	This	is	done	through	 a	microprocessor	 that	utilizes	an	activity–energy	
conversion	 factor	as	well	as	prediction	 equations	 for	BMR	based	on	age,	body	size,	and	
gender	as	independent	variables	(Washburn	 et al.	1989).
	 One	most	notable	advantage	 of	accelerometers	 is	that	they	have	the	ability	to	detect	
the	rate	of	movement	 and	thus	the	intensity	 of	exercise	 (Table	13.4).	Together	 with	the	
use	of	an	internal	 clock,	this	intensity-	 discriminating	 feature	will	help	characterize	 the	
intensity	 and	duration	of	 physical	activity	being	 performed.	 In	doing	so,	 a	dose–response	
relationship	 of	physical	 activity	to	health	and	fitness	outcome	 may	be	assessed.	 Other	
advantages	 are	that	they	are	small	in	size,	can	be	worn	without	interfering	 with	normal	
movement,	 and	record	data	for	extended	 periods	of	time.	The	instrument	 also	seems	to	
be	reliable.	 By	having	a	subject	wear	two	CaltracTM	devices	on	the	left	and	right	sides	of	
the	body,	Sallis	 et al.	(1990)	observed	that	the	inter-	 instrument	reliability	reached	0.96.
	 A	number	 of	studies	have	reported	 significant	 correlations	 between	 energy	expendi-
ture	estimated	 by	accelerometers	 and	by	other	proven	accurate	 methods,	 such	as	indi-
rect	calorimetry	 and	the	doubly	labeled	water	technique.	 However,	 an	equal	amount	of	
studies	also	found	that	this	technique	 underestimated	 energy	expenditure.	 The	high	
validity	for	this	instrument	to	be	used	for	assessing	physical	activity	appears	to	be	demon -
strated	primarily	 in	studies	that	employed	 level	walking	and	running	 (Handelman	 et al. 
2000).	Questions	 still	remain	as	to	whether	 accelerometers	 are	able	to	accurately	 assess	
energy	expenditure	 during	leisure	activities	 such	as	household	 and	occupational	 activ-
ities,	weight-	bearing	and	static	exercises	 such	as	cycling	and	load	carriage,	 and	during	
walking/running	 that	are	performed	 on	soft	or	graded	terrain	(Handelman	 et al.	2000,	
Sherman	 et al.	1998).
	 Given	 that	a	triaxial	accelerometer	 combines	 three	independent	 sensors	to	detect	
acceleration	 in	the	three-	dimensional	 space,	it	seems	logical	that	it	would	be	more	
accurate	 in	capturing	 physical	 activities	 than	a	single	plane	accelerometer.	 However,	

Energy consumption and output   333
validation	 results	for	supporting	 this	contention	 are	mixed.	Welk	and	Corbin	(1995)	
reported	 that	both	CaltracTM	(uniaxial)	 and	TritracTM	(triaxial)	 were	similar	in	reflecting	
aspects	of	lifestyle	activities.	 On	the	other	hand,	Bouten	 et al.	(1996)	and	Eston	 et al. 
(1998)	found	that	a	three-	dimensional	 monitor	 was	better	in	predicting	 oxygen	con-
sumption	 during	physical	activities	 as	compared	 to	a	uniaxial	 monitor.	 In	light	of	advant-
ages	and	concerns	 associated	 with	the	accelerometer,	 there	is	still	a	need	to	continue	
improving	 not	only	the	hardware	 in	order	to	better	track	the	motion,	 but	also	the	soft-
ware	so	that	converting	activity	counts	into	energy	value	can	be	made	more	accurately.
Heart rate monitoring
Due	to	the	difficulties	 encountered	 in	measuring	 VO2	and	thus	energy	expenditure	 in	
the	field,	a	steady	interest	has	been	devoted	to	developing	 less	direct	methods	 of	record-
ing	physiological	 responses	 associated	 with	VO2.	Among	those	physiological	 parameters	
investigated	 are	heart	rate	(HR),	pulmonary	 ventilation,	 and	body	temperature.	
However,	 monitoring	 HR	appears	 to	be	the	most	popular	 technique.	 During	exercise,	
there	is	a	fairly	close	and	linear	relationship	 between	 heart	rate	and	VO2 or energy 
expenditure	 during	dynamic	 exercise	 involving	 large	muscle	groups;	that	is,	the	greater	
the	HR,	the	greater	the	VO2.	This	is	especially	 the	case	when	HR	ranges	from	110	to	150	
beats·min–1	where	the	relationship	 between	 these	two	parameters	 is	found	to	be	linear.	
As	such,	it	is	reasonable	 to	use	HR	as	a	physiological	 marker	of	VO2	to	assess	physical	
activity	and	its	associated	 energy	expenditure.	 HR	is	relatively	 low	cost,	non-	invasive,	 and	
easy	to	measure.	 With	today’s	technology,	 HR	can	be	monitored	 and	recorded	 with	the	
use	of	a	chest	strap	transmitter	 and	a	small	receiver	 watch.	A	typical	HR	monitor	 trans-
mits	the	R-	R	waves	of	electromyography	 (ECG)	into	a	receiver	in	which	ECG	signals	may	
be	digitized	 and	displayed.	 Many	advanced	 models	are	also	equipped	 with	an	internal	
clock	that	allows	sampling	 over	different	 time	intervals	 and	has	the	ability	to	store	data	
over	a	period	of	days	or	weeks,	thereby	providing	 information	 on	various	components	 of	
physical	activity,	including	intensity,	duration,	and	frequency.
	 With	the	HR	monitoring	 technique,	 the	key	issue	lies	in	the	precision	 of	converting	
HR	into	energy	expenditure.	 This	is	because	 HR	in	relation	 to	energy	cost	can	be	
affected	 by	many	factors	other	than	physical	 activity	per	se.	Factors	such	as	age,	fitness,	
and	resting	metabolism	 may	be	accounted	 for	by	using	individualized	 HR–	VO2	curves	or	
by	using	measures	 of	relative	intensity	 (e.g.,	percentage	 of	HR	reserve)	 that	adjust	for	
age	and	fitness.	However,	 there	are	still	some	doubts	that	are	deserving	 of	attention	
(Table	13.4). 	For	example,	 a	question	 remains	 as	to	whether	 HR	is	a	valid	indicator	 of	
energy	expenditure	 during	low-	intensity	 activities	 due	to	its	weak	relationship	 with	VO2 
within	the	low-	intensity	 domain	(Freedson	 and	Miller	2000).	This	is	a	pertinent	 question	
in	that	the	intensity	 at	which	many	daily	activities	 are	performed	 range	from	low	to	
moderate.	 HR	is	also	more	susceptible	 to	emotional	 stress	that	would	result	in	a	dispro-
portional	 rise	in	HR	for	a	given	VO2.	In	addition,	 HR	may	vary	due	to	changes	 in	stroke	
volume,	 and	this	latter	parameter	 is	influenced	 by	body	posture,	 exercise	 modes,	and	
heat	stress	and	dehydration.
Combining HR and motion monitoring
Both	accelerometry	 and	HR	monitoring	 are	the	field-	based	methods	 that	have	been	
commonly	 chosen	for	assessing	 physical	 activity	and	energy	expenditure.	 However,	 as	
discussed	 earlier,	there	are	limitations	 associated	 with	each	method	when	used	alone.	It	
appears	that	limitations	 of	HR	monitoring	 are	primarily	 due	to	biological	 variance.	 For	
example,	 as	mentioned	 earlier,	the	HR–VO2	relation	 has	been	found	to	be	affected	 by	

334  Energy consumption and output
age,	gender,	fitness,	stroke	volume,	 and	psychological	 stress.	Responses	 of	HR	can	also	
be	influenced	 by	ambient	 temperature,	 hydration	 status,	and	quantity	 of	muscle	mass	
involved	 in	the	activity	(Haskell	 et al.	1993,	Brage	 et al.	2003).	On	the	other	hand,	the	
limitations	 of	accelerometry	 are	mainly	biomechanical	 in	that	the	technique	 is	generally	
unable	to	adequately	 detect	increases	 in	energy	expenditure	 due	to	(1)	movement	 up	
inclines,	 (2)	an	increase	 in	resistance	 to	movement,	 or	(3)	static	exercise.	 In	addition,	 a	
single	sensor	cannot	identify	movement	 that	involves	various	parts	of	the	body.	As	errors	
associated	 with	the	two	methods	 are	not	inherently	 related,	the	combination	 of	HR	and	
accelerometry	 should	in	theory	yield	a	more	precise	estimate	 of	physical	 activity	and	
energy	expenditure	as	compared	to	either	when	used	independently.
	 Over	the	past	decade	or	so,	some	studies	have	been	attempted	 to	examine	 the	validity	
of	the	simultaneous	 heart	rate–motion	 sensor	technique	 for	measuring	 energy	expendi-
ture	during	exercise	 in	the	laboratory	 and	in	a	field	setting	(Heskell	 et al.	1993,	Luke	 et 
al.	1997,	Rennie	 et al.	2000,	Strath	 et al.	2001a,	2001b,	Brage	 et al.	2003).	In	general,	
these	studies	have	found	that	measuring	 both	HR	and	movement	 concurrently	 is	a	better	
approach	 in	estimating	 oxygen	consumption	 and	energy	expenditure.	 In	these	studies,	
both	HR	and	movement	 counts	were	recorded	 at	the	same	time.	VO2	was	estimated	 by	
using	data	on	HR,	motion,	and	both	HR	and	motion.	Each	estimated	 VO2	was	then	com-
pared	against	criterion	 VO2	measured	 with	a	standard	 technique,	 i.e.,	indirect	calorime -
try.	As	information	 on	both	HR	and	motion	were	available,	 these	studies	were	able	to	
use	the	motion	data	to	exclude	 HR	that	was	increased	 due	to	non-	exercise	 reasons	or	
use	the	HR	data	to	capture	an	increase	 in	energy	metabolism	 that	was	not	detected	 by	
motion	sensors.	 Some	studies	recorded	 HR	and	motion	using	two	or	more	devices	or	
sensors	attached	 to	different	 body	parts,	which	may	be	problematic	 in	terms	of	this	tech-
nique	being	used	in	a	field	setting	for	a	long	period	of	time.	To	date,	a	single	unit	that	
detects	HR	and	motion	with	only	one	sensor	has	been	developed	 for	use	in	tracking	
physical	activity	(Figure 	13.6). 	This	device	uses	a	sophisticated	 algorithm 	in	determining	
energy	expenditure	and	can	record	data	for	as	long	as	11	days.
Figure 13.6 		Illustration	 of	ActiheartTM	that	combines	 HR	and	motion	monitoring	 to	track	
physical	activity	and	energy	expenditure

Energy consumption and output   335
	 Apparently,	 this	combined	 approach	 has	many	advantages.	 It	overcomes	 the	major	
weakness	 associated	 with	HR	monitoring	 and	motion	sensing	alone	(Table 	13.4). 	For	
example,	 HR	monitoring	 will	not	be	subject	to	the	error	of	movement	 sensing	such	as	
detecting	 the	level	of	activity	during	resistance	 exercise,	 swimming,	 and	cycling.	Like-
wise,	movement	 sensing	 complements	 HR	monitoring,	 as	it	allows	differentiation	
between	 increased	 HR	caused	by	physical	activity	and	that	caused	by	other	non-	exercise-
related	influences.	 Nevertheless,	 this	method	still	requires	 an	individualized	 calibration	
curve	to	be	established	 for	both	HR	and	movement	 counts,	which	could	be	time-	
consuming.	 Perhaps	 due	to	such	technical	 difficulty	 in	dealing	with	multiple	 sensing,	
most	validation	 studies	have	used	only	a	relatively	 homogeneous	 and	small	sample	size.	
It	is	hopeful	 that	future	effort	will	be	directed	 to	examine	 whether	 this	combined	
approach	 will	be	sufficiently	 precise	to	preclude	 the	need	for	individual	 calibration.	 Cur-
rently,	the	validity	of	this	technique	 remains	 equivocal.	 By	using	a	low-	to	moderate-	
intensity	 domain,	 Spierer	 et al.	(2011)	found	that	the	Actiheart	 monitor	 as	shown	in	
Figure	13.6	did 	not	provide	 any	better	energy	expenditure	 estimates	 than	using	HR	
monitoring	 alone.	However,	 Barreira	 et al.	(2009)	revealed	 that	this	combined	 acceler-
ometry/HR	 method	 was	able	to	accurately	 measure	 physical	 activity	under	free-	living	
conditions.
Multi- sensor monitoring system
More	recently,	 a	device	called	a	SenseWareTM	armband	 (SWA)	was	made	available	 on	the	
market	to	assess	energy	expenditure.	 This	device	is	worn	on	the	right	upper	arm	over	
the	triceps	muscle	and	enables	continuous	 physiological	 monitoring	 outside	the	labora-
tory	(Figure	13.7).	It 	has	an	ergonomic	 design	that	makes	it	easy	to	slip	on	and	off	and	
does	not	interfere	 with	day-	to-day	activities	 or	sleeping.	 In	this	device,	there	are	multiple	
sensors	that	can	measure	 various	physiological	 and	movement	 parameters	 simultan -
eously,	including	 body	surface	temperature,	 skin	vasodilatation,	 rate	of	heat	dissipation,	
and	two-	axis	accelerometer.	 Data	from	these	parameters	 together	 with	demographic	
information	 including	 gender,	age,	height,	and	weight	are	then	used	to	estimate	 energy	
expenditure	 employing	 a	generalized	 algorithm.	 The	principal	 difference	 of	this	system	
compared	 to	those	discussed	 previously	 is	the	inclusion	 of	a	heat	flux	sensor.	This	will	
allow	the	system	to	detect	a	change	in	heat	produced	as	a	result	of	metabolism.
Figure 13.7 	An	example	of	a	SenseWearTM	armband

336		 Energy consumption and output
	 Two	generations	 of	SWA	have	been	developed	 thus	far.	The	newer	version	has	an	
improved	 design	and	includes	 a	replaceable	 AAA	battery	and	a	USB	connector.	 However, 	
the	validity	of	this	system	remains	to	be	substantiated.	 It	appears	that	the	system	is	accurate	
in	tracking	 resting	energy	expenditure	 (Fruin	and	Walberg	 Rankin	2004,	Malavolti	 et al. 
2007).	However,	 it	remains	questionable	 with	regard	to	its	ability	to	detect	energy	expendi-
ture	during	exercise.	 In	comparing	 SWA	with	indirect	 calorimetry,	 Fruin	and	Walberg	
(2004)	and	Vernillo	 et al.	(2015)	failed	to	demonstrate	 a	good	validity	of	SWA	in	estimating 	
energy	expenditure	 of	flat,	uphill,	and	downhill	 walking,	 although	 the	device	was	found	to	
be	reasonably	 accurate	 for	exercise	 performed	 on	a	cycle	ergometer	 (Fruin	and	Walberg	
2004).	The	use	of	SWA	also	seems	problematic	 in	tracking	 energy	expenditure	 during	
intermittent	 exercise	 and	recovery	 (Zanetti	 et al.	2014).	Jakicic	 et al.	(2004)	also	observed 	
differences	 between	 SWA	and	indirect	calor	imetry	during	treadmill	 walking,	 cycling,	stair	
stepping,	 and	arm	cranking.	 Interestingly,	 in	this	latter	study,	no	difference	 was	observed 	
when	the	authors	adopted	 a	series	of	mode-	specific	algorithms.	 This	finding	is	appealing	 in	
the	sense	that	to	use	multiple	 algorithms	 would	require	the	development	 of	a	mechanism 	
that	allows	the	device	to	switch	between	 algorithms	 to	be	developed	 so	that	minimal	
burden	can	be	placed	upon	the	user.
Subjective measures
There	is	a	range	of	subjective	 methods	 available	 for	the	assessment	 of	energy	expendi-
ture	in	humans.	 These	methods	 may	be	classified	 into	categories	 of	(1)	questionnaires,	
and	(2)	activity	log/diary.	 In	general,	 questionnaires	 may	be	viewed	as	primarily	 recall-	
based	and	subjects	are	required	 to	provide	information	 about	the	pattern	of	their	daily	
activities	 that	have	already	occurred.	 Questionnaires	 have	been	used	to	assess	physical	
activities	 for	the	previous	 24	hours,	the	previous	 week,	and	the	previous	 year.	Some	ques-
tionnaires	 have	been	structured	 to	focus	specifically	 on	occupational	 or	leisure-	time	
activities.	 Other	questionnaires	 have	been	quite	general	in	searching	 out	information	 on	
activities	 that	have	occurred	 both	on	and	off	the	job.	Questionnaires	 may	be	further	
divided	into	those	that	are	self-	 reported	and	those	that	are	interviewer-	 administered.
	 Activity	 logs	or	diaries	involve	logging	subjects’	 activities	 periodically	 and	this	may	be	
done	in	a	frequency	 ranging	from	every	minute	to	every	few	hours.	This	method	 often	
includes	 a	standardized	 form	used	to	facilitate	 both	compliance	 and	quality.	Some	forms	
require	subjects	to	record	activities	 minute	by	minute	whereas	 others	require	subjects	to	
record	the	change	in	activity.	In	these	forms,	names	of	activities	 are	often	abbreviated	 to	
make	recording	 easier.	In	some	activity	logs,	activities	 to	be	recorded	 could	be	specific	
enough	to	include	not	only	the	type,	but	also	the	intensity	 and	duration.	 This	method	
demands	 a	greater	level	of	attention	 from	subjects	in	order	to	maintain	 their	diary.	To	
alleviate	 this	burden	on	subjects,	 some	researchers	 have	used	a	wristwatch	 that	alerts	the	
subject	to	record	activities	at	specified	times.
	 Both	questionnaires	 and	activity	logs/diaries	 have	been	frequently	 used	in	large	popula-
tion	surveys	and	epidemiological	 studies.	This	is	mainly	because	these	techniques	 are	relat-
ively	inexpensive	 as	compared	 to	HR	or	motion	monitoring.	 With	these	techniques, 	
specific	activities	 may	be	identified	 together	 with	information	 on	intensity,	 duration,	 and	
frequency.	 In	addition,	 data	may	be	collected	 by	many	subjects	simultaneously.	 However, 	
there	are	some	limitations	 to	each	of	these	methods.	 Quantifying	 various	aspects	of	phys-
ical	activity	such	as	type,	intensity,	 duration,	 and	frequency,	 which	are	important	 in	estimat-
ing	energy	expenditure,	 is	difficult.	 For	example,	 with	questionnaires,	 subjects	may	not	
necessarily	 recall	all	activities	 they	have	performed	 and/or	they	may	overestimate	 or	under-
estimate	 the	intensity	 and	duration	 of	certain	activities.	 These	shortcomings	 may	particu-
larly	be	the	case	when	a	questionnaire	 is	administered	 to	children	 who	have	lower	cognitive 	

Energy consumption and output 		337
functioning	 (Janz	 et al.	1995).	There	is	also	evidence	 that	physical	activity	was	underesti -
mated	in	women	when	household	 chores	were	not	included	 in	the	surveys	(Ainsworth	 and	
Leon	1991).	With	the	activity	log/diary	 technique,	 recording	 activities	 frequently	 over	a	
long	period	of	time	could	be	difficult.	 This	technique	 may	also	influence	 the	pattern	of	
activity	of	the	subject	who	records	his	or	her	ongoing	 activities	 in	that	the	subject	may	pur-
posely	modify	his	or	her	behaviors	due	to	the	survey.
Summary
•	 Using	 dietary	analysis	has	allowed	us	to	assess	adequacy	 of	dietary	intakes	of	indi-
viduals	and	groups,	to	monitor	 trends	in	food	and	nutrient	 consumption,	 to	study	
the	relationship	 between	 diet	and	health,	to	establish	 food	and	nutrition	 regula-
tions,	and	to	evaluate	 the	success	and	cost-	effectiveness	 of	nutrition	 and	risk	reduc-
tion	programs.
•	 The	 24-hour	recall,	food	intake	records,	 and	food	frequency	 questionnaires	 are	the	
three	commonly	 used	methods	 for	assessing	 one’s	dietary	status.	No	single	best	
method	 exists	for	measuring	 dietary	intake.	Each	method	 has	certain	advantages	
and	disadvantages.	 The	method	 used	depends	 on	time	constraints,	 subject	charac-
teristics,	 available	 resources,	 and	whether	 the	intent	is	to	provide	 quantitative	
information	or	to	merely	estimate	an	individual’s	usual	intake.
•	 The	 24-hour	 recall	method	 involves	 a	registered	 dietician	 or	a	trained	interviewer	
asking	people	to	recall	exactly	what	they	ate	during	the	preceding	 24-hour	 period.	
This	method	 is	quickly	administered,	 does	not	alter	eating	patterns,	 and	has	a	low	
respondent	 burden.	 However,	 it	does	not	provide	data	representative	 of	an	individ-
ual’s	usual	intake.
•	 A	food	diary	or	food	intake	record	can	assess	one’s	diet	more	accurately.	 Using	this	
method,	 the	respondent	 records,	 at	the	time	of	consumption,	 the	identity	 and	
amounts	 of	all	foods	and	beverages	 consumed	 for	a	period	of	time,	usually	ranging	
from	two	to	seven	days	and	including	 at	least	one	weekend	 day.	This	method	 does	
not	rely	on	memory	 and	can	provide	more	detailed	 intake	data,	but	requires	 a	high	
degree	of	respondent	cooperation	and	may	result	in	alterations	of	diet.
•	 Food	 frequency	 questionnaires	 assess	energy	or	nutrient	 intake	by	determining	 how	
many	times	a	day,	week,	month,	or	year	an	individual	 consumes	 a	limited	checklist	
of	foods	that	are	major	sources	of	nutrients	 or	of	a	particular	 dietary	component	 in	
question.	 This	method	 provides	 data	that	is	more	representative	 of	an	individual’s	
usual	intake	and	is	useful	in	revealing	 diet–disease	 relationships.	 However,	 it	may	
not	give	an	accurate	 estimate	 of	quantity	 of	foods	consumed	 and	respondents	 must	
be	able	to	recall	and	describe	their	diets	correctly.
•	 Being	 able	to	accurately	 determine	 energy	expenditure	 of	daily	living	including	
physical	 activity	is	critical	for	several	reasons:	 (1)	to	quantify	 the	participation	 of	
physical	 activity;	(2)	to	monitor	 compliance	 with	physical	 activity	guidelines;	 (3)	to	
understand	 the	dose–response	 relationship	 between	 physical	 activity	and	health,	
and	(4)	to	assess	the	effectiveness	 of	intervention	 programs	 designed	 to	improve	
physical	activity	levels.
•	 There	 are	two	laboratory	 procedures	 commonly	 used	to	assess	human	energy	expendi-
ture:	(1)	direct	calorimetry, 	and	(2)	indirect	calorimetry. 	Direct	calorimetry 	measures	
directly	the	heat	produced	 as	a	result	of	metabolism,	 whereas	 indirect	 calorimetry 	
measures	the	amount	of	oxygen	being	used	during	energy	transformation.
•	 Respiratory	 quotient	 (RQ)	that	represents	 gas	exchange	 across	the	blood–cell	
barrier	within	tissue	beds	is	a	key	parameter	 used	in	determining	 the	composition	 of	
substrate	 utilization.	 This	is	based	on	the	fact	that	oxidizing	 carbohydrate	 and	fat	

338		 Energy consumption and output
requires	 different	 amounts	 of	oxygen	and	produces	 different	 amounts	 of	carbon	
dioxide.	 Under	most	circumstances,	 this	parameter	 may	be	estimated	 by	measuring	
gas	exchange	 occurring	 at	the	lungs	and	the	ratio	of	VCO2/VO2	obtained	 is	referred	
to	as	respiratory	exchange	ratio	(RER).
•	 Pedometer,	 accelerometer,	 and	heart	rate	monitoring	 are	the	three	most	commonly	
chosen	techniques	 for	assessing	 physical	 activity	and	energy	expenditure.	 However,	
there	are	limitations	 associated	 with	each	method.	 The	errors	associated	 with	the	
pedometer	 and	accelerometer	 appear	to	be	mechanical	 in	that	both	techniques	 are	
generally	 unable	to	detect	increases	 in	energy	expenditure	 due	to	(1)	movement	 up	
inclines,	 (2)	an	increase	 in	resistance	 to	movement,	 or	(3)	static	exercise.	 On	the	
other	hand,	limitations	 of	HR	monitoring	 are	primarily	 biological.	 For	example,	 the	
HR–VO2	relation	 has	been	found	to	be	affected	 by	age,	gender,	 fitness,	stroke	
volume,	psychological	stress,	and	environmental	temperature.
•	 Because	 errors	associated	 with	accelerometer	 and	HR	monitoring	 are	not	inherently	
related,	a	simultaneous	 heart	rate/motion	 sensor	technique	 has	been	developed.	
This	combined	 approach	 has	legitimate	 rationale,	 but	is	more	expensive.	 Whether	 it	
is	more	accurate	than	any	single-	 sensor	device	remains	to	be	substantiated.
•	 Subjective	 measures	 of	physical	activity	and	energy	expenditure	 are	mainly	accomp-
lished	by	using	(1)	questionnaires, 	and	(2)	an	activity	log/diary. 	Questionnaires 	are	
often	conducted	 in	recall	fashion	and	subjects	are	required	 to	provide	information	 on	
activities	 that	have	already	occurred.	 Activity	logs	or	diaries	are	carried	out	by	an	indi-
vidual	periodically	 as	their	day	goes	by.	These	subjective	 methods	 provide	the	least	
expensive	 approach	 to	tracking	 physical	 activity	and	energy	expenditure	 and	this	
advantage	can	be	important	when	carrying	out	studies	that	use	large	sample	sizes.
Case study: using indirect calorimetry to optimize nutrition
Richard	 is	on	the	college	track	team.	His	coach	suggests	 that	he	participate	 in	an	off-	
season	training	 program	 aimed	to	optimize	 his	weight	and	body	composition.	 He	also	
needs	to	watch	carefully	 what	he	eats	in	order	to	achieve	a	desirable	 energy	balance.	
One	of	the	major	activities	 in	the	training	program	 is	60-minute	 steady-	state	running	 at	
about	7	miles	an	hour,	3	times	a	week.	Richard	 wonders	 how	many	calories	he	will	
burn	from	this	activity	and	how	many	of	the	calories	expended	 come	from	using	fat.	
He	also	wants	to	know	his	resting	metabolic	rate	in	
order	to	better	plan	his	diet.
	 Richard	 was	able	to	partake	in	a	testing	session	in	the	Human	Performance	 Labora-
tory	at	his	college,	where	the	lab	technician	 used	indirect	calorimetry	 to	determine	 his	
resting	metabolic	 rate	and	energy	utilization	 during	running	 at	7	miles	an	hour.	The	
following	are	the	results	of	this	test:
•	 Oxygen	uptake	(VO2)	at	rest	=	0.28	liters/minute
•	 Respiratory	exchange	ratio	at	rest	=	0.75
•	 The	average	VO2 during	running	 =	1.8	liters/minute
•	 Respiratory	exchange	ratio	during	running	=	0.90
Questions
•	 What	is	Richard’s	resting	metabolic	rate	in	(1)	kcal/min,	and	(2)	kcal/day?
•	 How	many	calories	did	Richard	expend	during	60	minutes	of	running?•	 What	is	
the	primary	fuel	that	Richard	used	(1)	at	rest,	and	(2)	during	running?
•	 How	many	calories	of	carbohydrate	and	fat	did	Richard	burn	during	running?
(Hint: You will need to use Table 13.3 to solve these questions.)

Energy consumption and output 		339
Review questions
	1	 What	is	the	24-hour	recall	method?	 What	are	the	advantages	 and	disadvantages	 asso-
ciated	with	this	method?
	2	 Describe	 how	the	food	intake	record	method	 should	be	carried	out.	How	does	this	
method	differ	from	the	24-hour	recall	method?
	3	 Why	are	food	frequency	 questionnaires	 considered	 qualitative?	 What	are	the	advant-
ages	and	disadvantages	 associated	 with	this	method	 of	tracking	 one’s	dietary	status?	
How	can	this	method	be	made	semi-	 quantitative?
	4	 Both	clinical	assessments	 and	laboratory	 measurements	 are	also	used	in	an	overall	
assessment	 of	one’s	nutritional	 status.	What	are	the	advantages	 of	having	these	addi-
tional	tools	incorporated?
	5	 How	is	the	term	calorie	defined?	 What	is	the	difference	 between	 direct	and	indirect	
calorimetry?
	6	 What	 is	the	caloric	equivalent	 of	oxygen?	 Why	is	the	caloric	equivalent	 of	oxygen	
higher	for	burning	carbohydrate	than	for	burning	fat?
	7	 What	is	a	respiratory	 quotient?	 How	is	this	parameter	 used	to	determine	 the	pattern	
of	substrate	utilization?	What	are	limitations	of	this	parameter?
	8	 If	someone	 walks	on	a	treadmill	 and	is	consuming	 oxygen	at	1.5	liters	a	minute	and	
expiring	 carbon	dioxide	at	1.2	liters	a	minute,	what	is	the	total	energy	expenditure	
of	this	individual	 if	this	exercise	 lasts	for	30	minutes?	 How	much	of	the	total	comes	
from	oxidizing	carbohydrate	and	how	much	comes	from	fat	oxidation?
	9	 Describe	 how	pedometers	 and	accelerometers	 work	in	tracking	 energy	expenditure	
of	daily	living.
10	 Explain	 the	rationale	 for	heart	rate	to	be	used	as	a	measure	 of	energy	expenditure.	
In	what	circumstances	may	this	measurement	be	inaccurate?
11	 Provide	 some	multi-	sensor	examples	 and	explain	the	thought	 process	behind	these	
devices.
12	 What	 are	the	advantages	 and	disadvantages	 associated	 with	subjective	 measures	 of	
physical	activity	using	questionnaires	or	activity	logs?
Suggested reading
	1	 Ferrannini	 E	(1988)	The	theoretical	 basis	of	indirect	 calorimetry:	 a	review.	 Meta-
bolism,	37:	287–301.
 Consult this paper to gain further understanding of how indirect calorimetry works. The paper 
reviews the theoretic basis of and the advantages and limitations associated with this laboratory 
technique.
	2	 Freedson	 PS,	Miller	K	(2000)	Objective	 monitoring	 of	physical	 activity	using	motion	
sensors	and	heart	rate.	 Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport ,	71:	21–29.
 Motion sensors and heart rate monitors are the two objective methods of tracking one’s phys -
ical activity level. This article provides a theoretical basis of these two field- based techniques 
and also discusses advantages and limitations associated with each method. The validity 
and feasibility of developing a technique that uses both of these methods simultaneously is 
also discussed.
	3	 Sallis	 JF,	Saelens	BE	(2000)	Assessment	 of	physical	 activity	by	self-	report:	status,	
limitations,	and	future	directions.	 Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport ,	71:	1–14.
 Self- report instruments are the most widely used type of physical activity measure. In this review, 
the authors summarize findings on the validity and reliability of this method, identify its 
strengths and limitations, and discuss areas for further improvement.

340		 Energy consumption and output
	4	 Schutz	 Y,	Weinsier	 RL,	Hunter	GR	(2001)	Assessment	 of	free-	living	physical	 activity	
in	humans:	 an	overview	 of	currently	 available	 and	proposed	 new	measures.	 Obesity 
Research,	9:	368–379.
 This article is an excellent addition, which reviews not only the methods discussed in the text -
book, but also some of the more newly developed measures and techniques, such as daytime phys -
ical activity level, activity- related time equivalent, daytime physical activity- level heart rate, as 
well as using the Global Positioning System Measures to track human motion.
Glossary
Acceleration 	the	rate	of	change	of	velocity	and	expressed	in	meters/seconds².
Accelerometer 	a	device	that	measures	 the	acceleration	 of	the	person’s	 center	of	
gravity.
Algorithm 	a	procedure	 or	formula	 for	solving	a	problem	 and	often	has	steps	that	
repeat	or	require	decisions	such	as	logic	or	comparison.
Caloric equivalent of oxygen 	amount	of	energy	yielded	from	1	liter	of	oxygen	used.
Creatinine 	a	breakdown	product	of	creatine,	which	is	an	important	part	of	muscle.
Dietary history 	a	method	 of	dietary	analysis	that	assesses	an	individual’s	 usual	dietary	
intake	over	an	extended	period	of	time,	usually	a	month	to	a	year.
Direct calorimetry 	a	laboratory	 procedure	 that	directly	measures	 the	heat	produced	
during	metabolism.
Doubly labeled water 	water	in	which	both	the	hydrogen	 and	the	oxygen	are	partly	or	
completely	 labeled	with	an	uncommon	 isotope	of	these	elements	 for	the	purpose	 of	
tracing	metabolic	rate.
Food diary 	a	method	 of	dietary	analysis	that	requires	 the	person	to	record	foods	and	
beverages	while	consuming	them.
Food frequency questionnaire 	a	method	 of	dietary	analysis	 that	assesses	 energy	or	
nutrient	 intake	by	determining	 how	frequently	 an	individual	 consumes	 a	limited	
checklist	 of	foods	that	are	major	sources	of	nutrients	 or	of	a	particular	 dietary	com-
ponent	in	question.
Indirect calorimetry 	a	method	 by	which	measurement	 of	whole-	body	respiratory	 gas	
exchange	 is	used	to	estimate	 the	amount	of	energy	produced	 though	the	oxidative	
process.
Isotope	any	of	the	several	different	 forms	of	an	element	 each	having	different	
atomic	mass.
Missing foods 	foods	eaten	but	not	reported	in	dietary	analysis.
Pedometer 	a	device,	usually	portable	 and	electronic	 or	electromechanical,	 that	counts	
each	step	a	person	takes	by	detecting	the	motion	of	the	person’s	hips.
Phantom foods 	foods	not	eaten	but	reported	in	dietary	analysis.
Respiratory exchange ratio (RER) 	similar	to	respiratory	 quotient	 except	that	both	
oxygen	consumption	 and	carbon	dioxide	 production	 are	measured	 at	the	lungs	
rather	than	tissue	beds.
Respiratory quotient (RQ) 	a	ratio	of	oxygen	consumption	 to	carbon	dioxide	produc-
tion,	which	is	influenced	by	the	use	of	carbohydrate	and	fat	as	energy	fuels.
Signs	objective	evidence	of	disease	and	may	be	detected	by	others.
Symptoms 	subjective	 evidence	 of	disease	and	often	referred	 to	as	a	feeling	people	
other	than	the	patient	cannot	see.

14 Body weight and composition for 
health and performance
Contents
Key terms 341
Height and weight measurements 342
•	 Weight–height	tables	 342
•	 Body	mass	index	 344
Body	composition	essentials	 345
•	 Essential	and	storage	fat	 347
•	 The	two-	 compartment	body	composition	model	 348
•	 Computation	of	percentage	body	fat	 348
•	 The	three-	and	four-	 compartment	body	composition	models	 349
Body	composition,	health,	and	sports	performance	 350
•	 Body	composition	and	health	 350
•	 Body	composition	and	sports	performance	 351
Body	composition	assessments	 356
•	 Laboratory	methods	for	assessing	body	composition	 358
•	 Field	methods	for	assessing	body	composition	 363
Summary	 368
Case	study	 369
Review	questions	 370
Suggested	reading	 370
Glossary	 371
Key terms
•	 Air	displacement	plethysmography	 •	 Archimedes’	principle
•	 Bioelectrical	impedance	analysis	 •	 Body	composition
•	 Body	density	 •	 Body	mass	index
•	 Boyle’s	law	 •	 Cellulite
•	 Circumference	 •	 Densitometry
•	 Dual-	energy	X-	 ray	absorptiometry	 •	 Ectomorph
•	 Endomorph	 •	 Essential	fat
•	 Hydrostatic	weighing	 •	 Mesomorph
•	 Obese	 •	 Overweight
•	 Resistance	exercise	 •	 Skinfold
•	 Storage	fat	 •	 Subcutaneous	fat
•	 Visceral	fat

342  The body in health and performance
Height and weight measurements
One	of	the	most	important	 measurements	 in	nutritional	 assessment	 is	body	weight	or	body	
mass.	Body	weight	is	an	important 	variable	in	equations 	that	predict	energy	expenditure	
and	indices	of	body	composition.	 Measurements	 of	a	person’s	 weight	in	conjunction	 with	
his	or	her	stature	or	height	do	lend	some	value	in	predicting	 health	and	risk	of	death.	
There	is	good	evidence	 that	overweight	 persons	tend	to	die	sooner	than	average-	weight	
individuals,	 especially	 those	who	are	overweight	 at	a	younger	age	(Must	 et al.	1999,	National	
Task	Force	on	the	Prevention 	and	Treatment 	of	Obesity	2000).	A	positive	relationship 	has	
been	demonstrated	 between	 body	mass	index	(BMI	–	a	weight–height	 index	discussed	 later	
in	this	chapter)	 and	mortality	 rate	for	cancer,	heart	disease,	and	diabetes	 mellitus,	 when	
BMI	is	above	25	kg	m–2.	Some	researchers 	believe	that	the	lowest	mortality 	rates	in	the	
United	States	and	many	other	Western	 nations	are	associated	 with	body	weights	somewhat 	
below	the	average	weight	of	the	population	 under	consideration	 (National	 Task	Force	on	
the	Prevention	 and	Treatment	 of	Obesity	2000).	On	the	other	hand,	one	should	be	cau-
tioned	against	encouraging 	weight	loss	when	it	is	not	indicated. 	A	body	weight	that	is	too	
low	is	unhealthy	 and	increases	 risk	of	death.	This	may	be	seen	in	persons	suffering	 starva-
tion	or	anorexia	 nervosa.	 Existing	evidence	 has	suggested	 that	as	BMI	falls	below	about	20,	
risk	of	death	increases.
Weight–height tables
Body	weight	may	be	better	assessed	 using	weight–height	 tables.	Weight–height	 tables	are	
convenient,	 quick,	and	easy	to	use.	They	are	designed	 to	evaluate	 the	extent	of	being	
overweight	from	sex	and	frame	 size,	with	the	frame	size	being	determining	 by	measuring	
the	width	of	the	elbow.	Weight	and	height	can	be	easily	measured,	 and	most	adults	and	
many	adolescent	 and	children	 are	able	to	understand	 and	use	the	tables.	The	life	insur-
ance	industry	 has	been	at	the	forefront	 of	developing	 height–weight	 tables.	The	tables	
were	developed	 by	comparing	 the	heights	and	weights	of	life	insurance	 policy	holders	
with	statistical	 data	on	mortality	 rates	and/or	longevity	 of	policy	holders.	 The	insurance	
industry	 has	used	the	data	from	the	tables	to	help	screen	applicants	 to	avoid	insuring	
persons	who	have	high	risks.	Table	14.1	shows	the	1983	Metropolitan	 Life	weight–height	
table.	This 	weight–height	 table	has	served	as	a	benchmark	 based	on	the	average	ranges	
of	body	mass	related	to	stature	in	which	men	and	women	aged	25	to	59	have	the	lowest	
mortality	 rate.	Based	on	the	data	used	for	developing	 this	table,	it	was	found	that	the	
lowest	mortality	 rates	occurred	 among	non-	smokers	 weighing	 80	to	89	percent	 of	
average	weight	(Manson	 et al.	1987).	Therefore,	 the	weights	defined	by	the	Metropolitan	
tables	as	recommended	 for	a	given	stature	were	actually	less	than	the	average	weights	of	
the	population	under	study.
	 Classifying	 subjects	 based	on	frame	size	is	a	common	 feature	of	the	Metropolitan 	
weight–height	 table.	The	frame	size	of	an	individual	 can	be	determined	 objectively, 	
although	 this	parameter	 has	often	been	estimated	 based	on	subject	self-	appraisal.	 Several	
approaches	 to	determining	 frame	size	have	been	developed,	 including	 biacromial	 breadth	
(distance	 between	 the	tips	of	the	biacromial	 processes	 at	the	tops	of	the	shoulders)	 and	
bitrochanteric	 breadth	 (distance	 between	 the	most	lateral	projections	 of	the	greater	
trochanter	 of	the	two	femurs)	(Katch	 et al.	1982),	the	ratio	of	stature	to	wrist	circumference	
(Grant	 et al.	1981),	and	width	of	knee,	wrist,	and	elbow	(Frisancho	 and	Flegel	1983).	Meas-
uring	the	width	of	the	elbow	appears	to	be	the	most	common	 and	practical	 way	of	deter-
mining	frame	size	and	was	taken	into	the	consideration	 when	the	1983	Metropolitan 	
weight–height	 table	was	developed.	 When	measuring	 the	width	of	the	elbow,	the	subject	
should	stand	erect	with	the	arm	extended	 forward	perpendicular	 to	the	body.	The	subject	

The body in health and performance   343
then	flexes	the	arm	forming	a	90-degree 	angle	at	the	elbow,	with	the	palm	facing	the	
subject.	The	person	who	measures	 places	the	heads	of	a	sliding	caliper	at	the	points	that	
represent	 the	widest	bony	width	of	the	elbow,	and	pressure	 should	be	firm	enough	to	com-
press	the	soft	tissue	outside	the	bony	structure. 	The	measurement 	should	be	read	at	0.1	cm	
or	1/8	in.	Table 	14.2 	provides	 normative	 data	allowing	 classification	 of	frame	size	based	on	
elbow	breadth	for	men	and	women	of	different	heights.
	 There	 are	several	considerations	 to	bear	in	mind	in	using	the	1983	weight–height	
table.	The	table	is	formulated	 based	on	insurance	 industry	 data,	which	are	derived	from	
people	who	were	able	to	purchase	 non-	group	insurance	 and	who	were	25	to	59	years	of	
age.	These	people	were	predominately	 white,	middle-	class	adults.	Therefore,	 African	
Americans,	 Asians,	Native	Americans,	 Hispanics,	 and	low-	income	 persons	 are	not	
proportionally	 represented.	 The	weight–height	 table	was	based	on	the	lowest	mortality,	Table 14.1 		1983	gender-specific	 height–weight	 tables	proposed	 by	the	Metropolitan	 Life	
Insurance	Company
Height Small frame Medium frame Large frame
in cm lb kg lb kg lb kg
Men
62 157 128–134 58–61 131–141 60–64 138–150 63–68
63 160 130–136 59–62 133–143 60–65 140–153 64–70
64 163 132–138 60–63 135–145 61–66 142–156 65–71
65 165 134–140 61–64 137–148 62–67 144–160 65–73
66 168 136–142 62–65 139–151 63–69 146–164 66–75
67 170 138–145 63–66 142–154 65–70 149–168 68–76
68 173 140–148 64–67 145–157 66–71 152–172 69–78
69 175 142–151 65–68 148–160 67–73 155–176 70–80
70 178 144–154 66–69 151–163 69–74 158–176 72–80
71 180 146–157 67–70 154–166 70–75 161–184 73–84
72 183 149–160 68–71 157–170 71–77 164–188 75–85
73 185 152–164 69–72 160–174 73–79 168–192 76–87
74 188 155–172 70–73 164–178 75–81 172–197 78–90
75 191 158–172 71–74 167–182 76–83 176–202 80–92
76 193 162–176 72–75 171–187 78–85 181–207 82–94
Women58 147 102–111 46–50
109–121 50–55 118–131 54–60
59 150 103–113 47–51 111–123 50–56 120–134 55–61
60 152 104–115 47–52 113–126 51–57 122–137 55–62
61 155 106–118 48–54 115–126 52–57 125–140 57–64
62 157 108–121 49–55 118–132 54–60 128–143 58–65
63 160 111–124 50–56 121–135 55–61 131–147 60–67
64 163 114–127 52–58 124–138 56–63 135–151 61–69
65 165 117–130 53–59 127–141 58–64 137–155 62–70
66 168 120–133 55–60 130–144 59–65 140–159 64–72
67 170 123–136 56–62 133–147 60–67 143–163 65–74
68 173 126–139 57–63 136–150 62–68 146–167 66–76
69 175 129–142 59–65 139–153 63–70 149–170 68–77
70 178 132–145 60–66 142–156 65–71 152–173 69–79
71 180 135–148 61–67 145–159 66–72 155–176 70–80
72 183 138–151 63–69 148–162 67–74 158–179 72–81
Note
Adapted	 by	including	 values	in	centimeters	 and	kilograms.	 Weights	 obtained	 from	men	and	women	
25–49	years	of	age	with	indoor	clothing	weighing	5	and	3	 lb,	respectively.

344  The body in health and performance
and	did	not	take	into	account	 the	health	problems	 often	associated	 with	obesity.	These	
health	problems	 include	cardiovascular	 disease,	 cancer	hypertension,	 hyperlipidemia,	
and	insulin	resistance,	 which	are	more	prevalent	 among	the	obese.	In	addition,	 no	
special	consideration	 was	given	to	the	status	of	cigarette	 smoking,	 which	is	associated	
with	lower	weight	and	a	shorter	life	span.	Including	 data	on	smokers	 in	the	table	tends	
to	make	lower	weights	appear	less	healthy	and	higher	weights	healthier	 (Willett	 et al. 
1991).	Finally,	the	weight–height	 table	does	not	differentiate	 between	 fat	mass	and	fat-	
free	mass.	What	really	matters	is	the	quality	of	the	weight,	not	the	quantity,	 and	the	
“ideal	weight”	is	not	ideal	for	everyone	 at	a	given	height.	Many	athletes	weigh	more	than	
the	average	weight–height	 standards	 due	simply	to	additional	 muscle	mass.	Being	above	
the	ideal	weight	based	on	the	weight–height	 table	should	not	necessarily	 dictate	whether	
someone	should	lose	weight.
Body mass index
Another	 measure	 of	weight	for	a	given	height	is	the	body mass index 	(BMI),	also	known	
as	the	Quetelet	 index.	This	index	was	an	attempt	by	mathematician	 Lambert	 Adolphe	
Jacques	Quetelet	 early	in	the	nineteenth	 century	to	describe	 the	relation	between	 body	
weight	and	stature	in	humans.	 BMI	is	calculated	 in	the	metric	system	by	dividing	 weight	
by	the	square	of	height,	as	shown	below:
BMI	=	(weight	in	kilograms)	 ÷	(height	in	meters)2
An	individual	 who	is	1.75	m	(or	5	ft,	9	in)	and	weighs	75	kg	(165	lb)	has	a	BMI	of	75/
(1.75)2	=	24.49	kg/m2.	The	normal	range	is	between	 18.5	kg/m2	and	25.0	kg/m2.	Indi-
viduals	with	a	BMI	higher	than	25	kg/m2	are	classified	 as	overweight 	and	individuals	 with	
a	BMI	higher	than	30	 kg/m2	are	classified	as	 obese .
	 As	reflected	 in	the	formula,	 the	Quetelet	 index	or	BMI	provides	 a	height-	free	measure	
of	obesity	by	adjusting	body	weight	to	height.	In	studies	that	involved	a	large	sample	size,	
a	commonly	 used	measure	 of	obesity	is	the	BMI.	This	is	mainly	because	 of	its	simplicity	
of	measurement	 and	calculation	 and	its	low	cost.	Studies	have	shown	that	the	BMI	corre-
lates	relatively	 well	(r	≈	0.70)	with	the	actual	measurement	 of	body	fat	from	hydrostatic	
weighing.	 This	index	has	also	been	found	to	correlate	 well	with	body	composition	Table 14.2 	Elbow	breadth	classifications	for	males	and	females	of	various	statures
Height Small frame Medium frame Large frame
in cm in mm in mm in mm
Men
61–62 155–158 <2	1/2 <64 2	1/2–2	7/8	 64–73 >2	7/8 >73
63–66 159–168 <2	5/8 <67 2	5/8–2	7/8 67–73 >2	7/8 >73
67–70 169–178 <2	3/4 <70 2	3/4–3 70–76 >3 >76
71–74 179–188 <2	3/4	 <70 2	3/4–3	1/8	 70–80 >3	1/8 >79
≥75 ≥189 <2	7/8 <73 2	7/8–3	1/4 73–83 >3	1/4 >83
Women
57–58 145–148 <2	1/4 <57 2	1/74–2	1/2 57–64 >2	1/2 >64
59–62 149–158 <2	1/4 <57 2	1/4–2	1/2 57–64 >2	1/2 >64
63–66 159–168 <2	3/8 <60 2	3/8–2	5/8	 60–67 >2	5/8 >67
67–70 169–178 <2	3/8 <60 2	3/8–2	5/8 60–67 >2	5/8 >67
≥71 ≥179 <2	1/4 <64 2	1/2–2	3/4	 64–70 >2	3/4 >70

The body in health and performance 		345
estimated	 from	total	body	water,	total	body	potassium,	 and	skinfold	 technique.	 It	is	
recommended	 by	the	National	 Institute	 of	Health	that	physicians	 use	the	BMI	in	evalu-
ating	patients	(National	 Task	Force	on	the	Prevention	 and	Treatment	 of	Obesity	2000).	
Many	scientists	 also	consider	 the	BMI	to	be	an	appropriate	 way	to	assess	body	weight	in	
children	 and	adolescents	 (Dietz	and	Bellizzi	1999).	For	years,	doctors	have	used	height	
and	weight	measurements	 to	assess	a	child’s	physical	growth	in	relation	to	other	children	
of	the	same	age,	and	this	is	typically	 carried	out	by	using	the	gender-	specific	BMI-	for-age	
percentiles	 as	shown	in	Figure	14.1.	BMI 	may	be	used	in	conjunction	 with	skinfold	 meas-
urements	 or	waist	circumference	 as	an	improved	 means	of	assessing	 increased	 risk	in	
adults	for	heart	disease,	stroke,	type	2	diabetes,	 and	premature	 death	(National	 Institute	
of	Health	1998).	Table 	14.3 	shows	classifications	 of	overweight	 and	obesity	and	associ-
ated	disease	risk	based	on	BMI	and	waist	circumference	in	adults.
	 The	BMI	may	be	a	useful	screening	 device	for	health	problems.	 However,	 it	reveals	
nothing	 about	body	composition	 and	cannot	distinguish	 between	 overweight	 resulting	
from	obesity	or	from	muscular	 development.	 Two	individuals	 may	have	the	same	BMI	
but	a	completely	 different	 body	composition.	 One	could	achieve	his	or	her	body	weight	
with	mainly	muscle	mass	as	a	result	of	hard	training,	 whereas	the	other	could	achieve	his	
or	her	body	weight	by	fat	deposition	 as	a	result	of	a	sedentary	 lifestyle.	 Without	 informa-
tion	about	body	composition,	 they	may	both	be	classified	 as	obese.	The	possibility	 of	
misclassifying	 someone	 as	overweight	 or	obese	by	the	BMI	applied	particularly	 to	large-	
sized	males,	especially	 field	athletes,	 body	builders,	 weight-	lifters,	upper-	weight	class	
wrestlers,	 and	American	 football	 players,	such	as	linemen.	 It	has	been	estimated	 that	
more	than	50	percent	of	the	National	 Football	 League	were	obese	with	a	BMI	greater	
than	30,	yet	the	average	percentage	 of	body	fat	of	linemen	 is	about	18	percent.	 Thus,	
when	assessing	 athletic	populations,	 measuring	 body	composition	 that	includes	 fat	mass	
and	fat-	free	mass	is	more	appropriate.
Body composition essentials
Body composition 	is	defined	 as	the	ratio	of	fat	to	fat-	free	mass	and	is	frequently	
expressed	 as	a	percentage	 of	body	fat	(%	body	fat).	The	percentage	 of	body	fat	is	also	
regarded	 as	relative	fatness.	Table 	14.4 	presents	 the	recommended	 percentage	 of	body	
fat	standards	 for	adults,	middle	aged,	and	elderly.	 The	minimal	 averages	 and	the	
Table 14.3 		Classification	 of	obesity	and	overweight	 and	disease	risk	associated	 with	body	mass	
index	and	waist	circumference
Classification Obesity 
classBMI (kg/m 2)Disease risk relative to normal weight and waist 
circumference*
Men ≤40 in
Women ≤35 inMen 40 in.
Women >35 in.
Underweight <18.5 – –
Normal	 18.5–24.9 – –
Overweight 25.0–29.9 Increased High
Obesity I 30.0–34.9 High Very	high
II 35.0–39.9 Very	high Very	high
Extreme	obesity III ≥40 Extremely	high Extremely	high
Source:	adapted	from	National	Heart,	Lung,	and	Blood	Institute	(1998).
Note
*	Diseases	risk	for	type	2	diabetes,	hypertension,	and	cardiovascular	disease.

2 to 20 ye ars: Boys
Stature-f or-age and weight- for-age percentilesName
in
62160cm in
190
18576
7472
70
68
66
64
62
60
230
220210
200
190180
170
160
150
140
130
120
110
100
90
80
706050
40
30180
175
170
165
160
155
150
105
100
95
9085
80
75
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
302520
15
10155
150
145
140
135
130
125120115
110
105100
95
90
85
80
35
3025
20
Published Ma y 30, 2000 (modified 11/21/00).
Source:  Developed by  the National Center f or Health Statistics in collaboration with
 the National Center f or Chronic Disease Pre vention and Health Promotion (2000).
 http://www .cdc.go v/gro wthchar ts15
10
kg80
70
6050
40
30
lb kg lb lb60
58
56
54
52
50
48
46
4442
40
3836
34
32
30cm12
3
S
T
A
T
U
R
ES
T
A
T
UR
E
W
E
I
G
H
TW
E
I
G
H
T4 5 6 7 8 9 10111314
Age (y ears)
Age (y ears)151617181920
2 4 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1211 1314151617181920Record #
Mother’ s stature
Date Age Weight Stature BMI*
*To calculate BMI:  weight (kg)  + stature  (cm)  + stature (cm)  × 10,000
or weight (lb)  + stature  (in) + stature (in)  × 703Father’ s stature2 to 20 ye ars: Girls
Stature-f or-age and weight- for-age percentilesName
in
62160cm in
190
18576
7472
70
68
66
64
62
60
230
220210
200
190180
170
160
150
140
130
120
110
100
90
80
706050
40
30180
175
170
165
160
155
150
105
100
95
9085
80
75
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
302520
15
10155
150
145
140
135
130
125120115
110
105100
95
90
85
80
35
3025
20
Published Ma y 30, 2000 (modified 11/21/00).
Source:  Developed by  the National Center f or Health Statistics in collaboration with
 the National Center f or Chronic Disease Pre vention and Health Promotion (2000).
 http://www .cdc.go v/gro wthchar ts15
10
kg80
70
6050
40
30
lb kg lb lb60
58
56
54
52
50
48
46
4442
40
3836
34
32
30cm12
3
S
T
A
T
U
R
ES
T
A
T
UR
E
W
E
I
G
H
TW
E
I
G
H
T4 5 6 7 8 9 10111314
Age (y ears)
Age (y ears)151617181920
2 4 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1211 1314151617181920Record #
Mother’ s stature
Date Age Weight Stature BMI*
*To calculate BMI:  weight (kg)  + stature  (cm)  + stature (cm)  × 10,000
or weight (lb)  + stature  (in) + stature (in)  × 703Father’ s stature
95
80
75
50
25
10
595
90
75
50
25
10
5
97
90
75
50
25
10
397
90
75
50
25
10
3
Figure 14.1 	An	example	of	the	gender-specific	BMI-for-age	percentiles

The body in health and performance 		347
threshold	 values	for	obesity	vary	with	age	and	gender.	 For	example,	 the	average	 or	
median	percentage	 of	body	fat	values	for	adult	men	and	women	(18	to	34	years)	are	13	
percent	for	men	and	28	percent	for	women,	 and	standards	 for	obesity	are	>22	percent	
for	men	and	 >35	percent	for	women.
Essential and storage fat
The	total	body	fat	consists	of	both	essential	 fat	and	storage	fat.	Essential fat 	is	stored	
in	the	bone	marrow,	 heart,	lungs,	liver,	spleen,	kidneys,	 intestines,	 muscles,	 and	lipid-	
rich	tissues	of	the	central	nervous	 system.	This	fat	is	necessary	 for	the	efficient	 func-
tioning	of	certain	body	structures	 such	as	the	brain,	nerve	tissue,	bone	marrow,	 heart	
tissue,	and	cell	membranes.	 The	essential	 fat	in	adult	males	represents	 3	to	5	percent	
of	body	weight.	In	females,	 essential	 fat	includes	 additional	 sex-	specific	essential	 fat,	
which	serves	biologically	 important	 childbearing	 and	other	reductive	 functions.	 This	
additional	 sex-	specific	fat	gives	adult	females	approximately	 12	to	15	percent	essential 	
fat.	Essential	 fat	is	the	level	below	which	physical	 and	physiological	 health	would	be	
negatively	affected.
 Storage fat 	is	simply	a	depot	for	excess	fat.	The	major	fat	depot	consists	of	fat	accu-
mulation 	in	adipose	tissue.	This	fat	is	also	referred	to	as	energy	reserve	and	contains	
about	83	percent	 of	pure	fat	in	addition	 to	2	percent	 protein	and	15	percent	 water	
within	its	supporting	 structures.	 Average	 males	and	females	have	storage	fat	of	approx-
imately	12	and	15	percent	 of	the	body	weight,	respectively.	 Storage	 fat	includes	 vis-
ceral fat 	that	protects	 the	various	organs	within	the	thoracic	 and	abdominal	 cavities,	
but	a	much	larger	portion	of	the	storage	fat	is	found	just	beneath	the	skin’s	surface	
and	is	called	 subcutaneous fat .	Subcutaneous	 fat	accounts	 for	over	50	percent	of	total	
body	fat.	When	this	type	of	fat	is	separated	 by	connective	 tissue	into	small	compart-
ments	that	extrude	 into	dermis,	it	gives	a	dimpled,	 quilt-	like	look	to	the	skin	and	is	
known	as	cellulite.	 Cellulite 	is	primarily	 fat,	but	may	contain	 high	concentrations	 of	
glycoproteins,	 particles	 that	can	attract	water	and	possibly	 give	cellulite	 skin	a	waffle-	
like	appearance.	Such	skin	change	is	much	more	common	in	women	than	in	men.Table 14.4 	Percent	body	fat	standards	for	healthy	and	physically	active	men	and	women
Populations Age (years) Recommended % body fat levels
Low Mid Upper Obesity
Healthy	males 18–34 	8 13 22 >22
35–55 10 18 25 >25
55+ 10 16 23 >23
Normal	females 18–34 20 28 35 >35
35–55 25 32 38 >38
55+ 25 30 35 >35
Physically	active	males 18–34 	5 10 15
35–55 	7 11 18
55+ 	9 12 18
Physically	active	females 18–34 16 23 28
35–55 20 27 33
55+ 20 27 33
Source:	adapted	from	Lohman	 et al.	(1997).

348		 The body in health and performance
The two- compartment body composition model
In	order	to	make	the	most	valid	assessment	 of	body	composition,	 it	is	necessary	 to	under-
stand	the	underlying	 theoretical	 models	used	in	the	development	 of	various	body	composi-
tion	assessment	 techniques.	 Scientists	 have	developed	 a	variety	of	techniques	 to	measure	
various	body	components	 including	 fat,	protein,	bone	mineral,	 and	body	water.	Of	these	
components,	 fat	remains	 of	most	interest	due	to	its	direct	relationship	 with	health	and	
sports	performance.	 Consequently,	 a	more	simplified,	 two-	compartment	 model	was	
developed	 (Brozek	 et al.	1963),	which	has	been	used	as	a	theoretic	 basis	for	many	of	the	
body	composition	 assessment	 techniques	 developed	 over	the	past	several	decades.	 In	the	
two-	compartment	 model,	the	body	is	divided	into	fat	mass	and	fat-	free	mass,	or,	according 	
to	an	alternative	 approach,	 into	adipose	tissue	and	lean	body	mass	(Figure 	14.2). 	An	indi-
vidual	who	has	20	percent	body	fat	has	80	percent	fat-	free	mass.	It	has	long	been	considered 	
that	fat	mass	includes	 all	the	solvent-	extractible	 lipids	contained	 in	body	adipose	and	other	
tissues,	and	residual	is	the	fat-	free	mass	(Keys	and	Brozek	1953).	Adipose	 tissue	contains	
about	14	percent	water,	is	nearly	100	percent	free	of	electrolyte	 potassium,	 and	is	assumed	
to	have	a	density	of	0.9	g	cm–3.	The	fat-	free	mass	is	less	homogeneous	 and	is	primarily	 com-
posed	of	muscle,	water,	bone,	and	other	tissues	devoid	of	lipids.	For	example,	 solvent	ether	
may	be	used	to	extract	all	the	fat	and	lipids	from	minced	animal	carcass.	That	remaining 	
after	all	the	fat	and	lipids	have	been	extracted 	would	be	the	fat-	free	mass.	The	fat-	free	mass	
has	a	density	of	1.1	g	cm–3,	although	 this	value	may	change	depending	 on	age,	ethnicity, 	
nutritional	 status,	degree	of	fitness,	and	the	body’s	state	of	hydration.	 The	fat-	free	mass	is	
also	referred	 to	as	lean	body	mass.	Lean	body	mass	is	similar	to	fat-	free	mass	except	that	
lean	body	mass	includes	 a	small	amount	of	lipids	that	the	body	must	have	–	for	example, 	
lipids	that	serve	as	a	structural	 component	 of	cell	membranes	 or	lipids	contained	 in	the	
nervous	system.	The	essential	lipid	constitutes	about	1.5	to	3	percent	of	lean	body	mass.
Computation of percentage body fat
Based	on	the	cadaver	analysis,	 which	reveals	that	the	density	of	body	fat	is	0.9	g	cm–3 and 
the	density	of	fat-	free	mass	is	1.1	g	cm–3,	two	equations	 were	developed	 to	estimate	
Fat compartment Fat
Water
Bone mineral
Non-bone mineral
ProteinFat-free compartment
Figure 14.2 	The	two-compartment	model	for	body	composition

The body in health and performance 		349
percentage	 body	fat	by	incorporating	 the	measured	 value	of	whole-	body	density	(Brozek	
et al.	1963,	Siri	1961):
Siri	equation:	%	fat	 =	[(4.95/body	density)	 –	4.50]	×	100
Brozek	equation:	%	fat	 =	[(4.57/body	density)	 –	4.412]	×	100
These	formulas	 are	based	on	the	two-	compartment	 model	and	yield	similar	%	percent-
age	body	fat	estimates	 for	body	densities	 ranging	from	1.03	to	1.09	g	cm–3.	For	example,	
if	an	individual’s	 measured	 whole-	body	density	is	1.05	g	cm–3,	the	percentages	 of	body	
fat,	obtained	 by	plugging	 this	value	into	the	Siri	and	Brozek	equations,	 are	21.4	and	21.0	
percent,	 respectively.	 In	these	formulas,	 body	density	is	obtained	 from	hydrostatic	 or	
underwater	 weighing,	 once	considered	 the	“gold	standard”	 method.	 This	method	 of	
measuring	body	composition	is	described	in	detail	later	in	this	chapter.
	 The	generalized	 density	values	for	fat	(0.9	g	cm–3)	and	fat-	free	(1.1	g	cm–3)	tissues	
represent	 averages	 for	young	and	middle-	aged	adults.	However,	 recent	technological	
advances	 for	measuring	 water	(isotope	 dilution),	 minerals	 (dual-	energy	X-	ray	absorpti-
ometry,	DEXA),	 and	protein	(neutron	 activation	 analysis)	 have	shown	that	the	fat-	free	
mass	varies	widely	among	population	 subgroups	 depending	 on	age,	sex,	ethnicity,	 level	
of	body	fatness,	training	 background,	 and	hydration	 status.	For	example,	 a	significantly	
larger	average	density	of	fat-	free	mass	was	found	in	Blacks	(1.113	g	cm–3)	and	Hispanics	
(1.105	g	cm–3)	than	in	Whites	(1.100	g	cm–3)	(Ortiz	 et al.	1992,	Schutte	 et al.	1984,	Stolarc-
zyk	et al.	1995).	Consequently,	 using	the	existing	equations	 established	 on	the	assump-
tions	for	Whites	to	calculate	 body	composition	 from	whole-	body	density	of	Blacks	and	
Hispanics	 underestimates	 percentage	 body	fat.	Applying	 such	constant	 density	values	for	
fat	and	fat-	free	tissues	to	growing	 children	 or	aging	adults	also	introduces	 errors	in	pre-
dicting	body	composition	 (Lohman	 and	Going	1993).	For	example,	 the	water	and	
mineral	 content	 of	fat-	free	mass	continually	 increases	 during	the	growth	period	and	
decreases	 during	the	process	of	aging.	This	will	reduce	the	density	of	the	fat-	free	tissue	
of	children	 and	elderly	below	the	assumed	 constant	 of	1.1	g	cm–3,	thus	overestimating	
percentage	 body	fat.	In	addition,	 regular	resistance	 training	 increases	 muscularity	 dis-
proportionately	 to	changes	 in	bone	mass,	thereby	 reducing	 density	of	fat-	free	mass.	
Modlesky	 et al.	(1996)	found	that	the	fat-	free	mass	density	of	young	white	men	with	high	
musculoskeletal	 development	 due	to	regular	resistance	 training	 was	lower	(1.089	g	cm–3)	
than	the	assumed	 value	of	1.1	(g	cm–3),	which	caused	an	overestimation	 of	percentage	
body	fat	by	use	of	the	Siri	equation.
The three- and four- compartment body composition models
Most	of	the	error	associated	 with	the	two-	compartment	 model	lies	not	in	the	technical	
accuracy	 of	the	measurements	 but	in	the	validity	of	previously	 outlined	 assumptions,	
which	are	based	on	analyses	of	several	white	male	cadavers	 (Brozek	 et al.	1963,	Siri	1961).	
To	account	for	inter-	individual	 variation	 in	fat-	free	mass	hydration,	 a	three-	compartment	
model	was	developed	 that	includes	 fat	mass,	total	body	water,	and	fat-	free	dry	mass.	
Water	is	the	largest	component	 of	body	mass	and	most	of	it	is	in	lean	tissues.	It	can	be	
measured	 by	an	isotope	dilution	technique.	 Fat-	free	dry	mass	contains	 protein,	 glycogen,	
and	minerals	 in	bone	and	soft	tissues.	With	the	advancement	 in	body	composition	 tech-
nology	such	as	dual-	energy	X-	ray	absorptiometry	 (DEXA),	 which	yields	values	for	bone	
mineral,	 a	four-	compartment	 model	has	emerged	 that	includes	 fat	mass,	total	body	
water,	bone	mineral,	 and	residuals.	 This	model	is	theoretically	 more	valid	than	the	three-
	compartment	 model	because	 it	controls	 for	biological	 variation	 in	both	hydration	 and	

350		 The body in health and performance
bone	mineral.	 However,	 it	requires	 more	measurements	 and	is	thus	more	costly	and	
time-	consuming.	 Table 	14.5 	summarizes	 the	fat-	free	mass	densities	 measured	 for	dif-
ferent	population	 subgroups	 using	the	three-	or	four-	compartment	 model	(Heyward	 and	
Stolarczyk	1996).
Body composition, health, and sports performance
How	much	should	I	weigh	or	how	much	body	fat	should	I	have?	This	is	a	complex	 ques-
tion,	and	response	 depends	 on	whether	 you	are	concerned	 primarily	 about	your	health,	
sports	performance,	 or	simply	your	physical	 appearance.	 The	effect	of	body	weight	and	
fat	on	health	has	received	 considerable	 attention.	 Although	 being	underweight	 may	
impair	health,	most	of	the	focus	has	been	on	excess	body	weight	and	fat,	particularly	 the	
relationship	 of	obesity	to	health.	For	athletes,	 on	the	other	hand,	extra	body	weight	may	
prove	to	be	an	advantage,	 especially	 in	American	 football,	 rugby,	ice	hockey,	 heavy-
weight	or	sumo	wrestling,	 and	other	sports	in	which	body	contact	may	occur	or	main-
taining	body	stability	is	important.	 However,	 caution	must	be	used	because	the	effect	of	
extra	weight	can	be	neutralized	 or	proven	ineffective	 if	the	athlete	loses	speed.	As	for	
physical	 appearance,	 everyone	 is	the	best	judge	of	how	he	or	she	wishes	to	look.	Never-
theless,	a	distorted	 image	can	lead	to	serious	health	problems	 or	impairment	 in	sports	
performance.
Body composition and health
Most	of	the	attention	 to	body	composition	 and	its	influence	 on	health	has	focused	on	
the	proportion	 of	body	fat.	The	percentage	 can	vary	from	3	to	5	percent	of	body	weight	
in	excessively	 lean	individuals	 to	as	much	as	over	50	percent	of	body	weight	in	morbidly	
obese	individuals.	 By	definition,	 obesity	is	simply	an	accumulation	 of	fat	in	the	adipose	
tissue.	As	shown	in	Table 	14.4, 	for	adult	males,	a	level	of	body	fat	percentage	 above	25	is	
considered	 the	low	threshold	 for	obesity,	whereas	 adult	females	are	considered	 obese	
when	their	body	fat	percentage	 exceeds	 38	percent.	 Obesity	is	associated	 with	various	
risk	factors	for	chronic	diseases,	 such	as	heart	disease,	hypertension,	 diabetes,	 some	types	
of	cancer,	and	osteoarthritis.	 Body	fat	can	influence	 health	in	several	ways;	this	is	clearly	
demonstrated	 as	body	fat	increases	 over	time,	and	health	conditions	 worsen	in	a	parallel	
manner.	 However,	 when	body	fat	levels	fall	too	low,	the	resultant	 excessive	 leanness	 is	
potentially	problematic	as	well.
Table 14.5	Selected	population-specific	fat-free	mass	density
Population Age (years) Gender Fat-free mass density
White 20–80 Males 1.100
Females 1.097
Black 18–32 Males 1.113
24–79 Females 1.106
American	Indian 18–60 Females 1.108
Hispanic 20–40 Females 1.105
Asian	Natives 18–48 Males 1.099
Females 1.111
Obese 17–62 Females 1.098
Anorexic 15–30 Females 1.087
Source:	adapted	from	Heyward	and	Stolarczyk	(1996).

The body in health and performance 		351
	 Extremely	 low	levels	of	body	fat	are	associated	 with	certain	activities	 and	sports.	For	
example,	 some	athletes,	 such	as	body	builders	 or	fitness	competitors,	 may	reduce	their	
body	fat	percentages	 as	a	competition	 approaches	 or	try	to	maintain	 lower	levels	of	body	
fat	throughout	 the	year.	Athletes	 participating	 in	sports	where	body	physique	 and	lean-
ness	are	important	 to	success,	such	as	gymnastics,	 figure	skating,	and	diving,	or	sports	
involving	 weight	classes,	such	as	wrestling,	 weight-	lifting,	boxing,	and	lightweight	 rowing	
can	become	 excessively	 lean	during	their	competition	 seasons.	 Distance	 runners	 and	
cyclists	also	tend	to	have	very	low	levels	of	body	fat,	usually	as	a	result	of	the	high-	energy	
demands	 of	their	sports.	As	mentioned	 earlier,	body	fat	percentages	 of	approximately	 3	
to	5	percent	for	men	and	12	to	15	percent	for	women	have	been	considered	 the	minimal	
level	of	adiposity	 necessary	 for	maintaining	 health.	Excessive	 leanness	 appears	to	affect	
female	athletes	more	than	their	male	counterparts.	 An	extremely	 low	body	fat	percent-
age	has	been	considered	 a	primary	 cause	of	reduced	 estrogen	 production	 and	disrup-
tion	of	the	menstrual	 cycle	in	some	female	athletes.	 It	becomes	 more	evident	that	the	
condition	 of	amenorrhea	 may	be	more	directly	related	to	a	chronic	reduction	 in	energy	
consumption.	 Often,	an	excessively	 lean	body	reflects	conditions	 known	as	eating	dis-
orders	and	the	Female	Athlete	Triad	discussed	 in	Chapter 	10. 	These	conditions,	 if	left	
untreated,	can	have	long-	 term	health	and	psychological	consequences.
	 Fat-	free	mass	is	an	important	 component	 of	body	composition	 for	health.	Higher	
levels	of	fat-	free	mass	can	predict	more	desirable	 bone	density	and	skeletal	muscle	mass.	
Bakker	 et al.	(2003)	revealed	 that	compared	 with	total	body	weight,	standing	 height,	
BMI,	waist	circumference,	 waist-	to-hip	ratio,	and	skinfold	 thickness	 and	fat	mass,	fat-	free	
mass	was	the	most	important	 determinant	 of	ten-	year	longitudinal	 development	 of	
lumbar	bone	mineral	 density	in	adult	men	and	women.	 As	the	fat-	free	mass	is	largely	
composed	 of	skeletal	muscle	tissues,	such	a	relationship	 between	 fat-	free	mass	and	bone	
mineral	can	be	explained	 by	mechanical	 stresses	mediated	 through	 gravitational	 action	
and	muscle	contractions	 on	bone.	Greater	bone	density	is	associated	 with	greater	bone	
integrity,	 which	in	turn	reduces	the	risk	of	bone	fracture	 as	well	as	osteoporosis	 in	the	
future.	Likewise,	 having	more	skeletal	muscle	is	associated	 with	increased	 muscular	
strength	 and	decreased	 risk	of	physical	 injury.	As	muscle	is	more	active	metabolically	
than	adipose	 tissue,	increased	 skeletal	muscle	mass	may	be	related	to	increased	 daily	
energy	expenditure,	 which	can	in	turn	reduce	the	possibility	 of	weight	gain	and	obesity.	
In	addition,	 having	more	skeletal	muscle	can	improve	 glucose	tolerance	 and	decrease	
the	risk	of	diabetes	 mellitus.	 Indeed,	skeletal	muscle	is	one	of	the	major	target	organs	
responsible	for	taking	up	glucose	upon	the	action	of	insulin.
	 Recently,	 a	great	deal	of	attention	 has	been	focused	on	the	benefits	that	resistance	 exer-
cise	can	have	in	aiding	glucose	regulation	 in	persons	with	type	2	diabetes.	 This	is	in	part	
because	 resistance exercise ,	which	is	defined	as	the	performance	 of	dynamic	 or	static	mus-
cular	contractions	 against	external	 resistance	 of	varying	intensities,	 is	most	effective	 in	
improving	 or	maintaining	 skeletal	muscle	mass	and	function.	 A	number	 of	studies	have	
shown	improved	 insulin	sensitivity	 and	enhanced	 glucose	clearance	 following	 programs	 of	
resistance	 training	(Holten	 et al.	2004,	Ferrara	 et al.	2006).	Resistance	 training	has	also	been	
shown	to	be	effective	 in	lowering	 blood	pressure	 (Cornelissen	 and	Fagard	2005).	It	is	clear	
that	regular	conditioning	 involving	 repeated	 muscular	 contractions	 against	relatively	 high	
loads	can	be	beneficial	in	reducing	risks	for	many	chronic	diseases.
Body composition and sports performance
Many	athletes	believe	that	they	must	be	big	to	be	good	in	their	sports	because	 size	has	
traditionally	 been	associated	 with	performance	 quality	in	certain	sports,	such	as	
American	 football,	 rugby,	basketball,	 and	baseball.	 The	bigger	the	athlete,	the	better	the	

352		 The body in health and performance
performance.	 But	big	doesn’t	always	mean	better.	In	certain	sports,	smaller	and	lighter	
are	considered	 more	ideal,	i.e.,	gymnastics,	 figure	skating,	and	diving.	Yet,	this	can	be	
taken	to	extremes,	 compromising	 the	health	of	the	athlete.	The	following	 sections	 are	
intended	 to	discuss	further	how	performance	 can	be	affected	 by	body	type,	weight/size,	
and	composition.
Somatotype
Somatotype	 concerns	 physical	types	or	physique	 of	the	body.	A	simple	observation	 of	the	
track-	and-field	 events	at	the	Olympic	 Games	suggests	 that	the	physical	 characteristics	 of	
those	who	are	successful	 in	the	shot	put	are	different	 from	those	who	are	successful	 in	
the	marathon.	 Indeed,	 there	exist	different	 body	types,	some	of	which	may	be	con-
sidered	 desirable	 for	particular	 sporting	 events.	According	 to	William	 Sheldon	
(1898–1977),	 an	American	 psychologist	 who	devoted	 his	life	to	observing	 the	variety	of	
human	bodies	and	temperaments,	 each	person	could	be	characterized	 as	possessing	 a	
certain	amount	of	the	following	three	components	of	body	form:
Endomorph :	relative	predominance	of	soft	roundness	and	large	digestive	viscera.
Mesomorph :	relative	predominance	 of	muscle,	 bone,	and	connective	 tissue	ulti-
mately	derived	from	the	mesodermal	embryonic	layer.
Ectomorph :	relative	predominance	 of	linearity	 and	fragility	with	a	great	surface-	to-
mass	ratio	giving	sensory	exposure	to	the	environment.
Most	people	are	a	mixture	 of	these	three	body	types,	with	a	tendency	 toward	one	of	
them.	Only	5	percent	of	the	population	 are	considered	 “pure”	for	each	type.	William	
Sheldon	 also	examined	 137	Olympic	 track-	and-field	 athletes.	 He	revealed	 that,	although	
variation	 exists,	a	majority	 of	athletes	 are	considered	 to	be	between	 mesomorph	 and	
ectomorph.	 Via	further	analysis	given	by	Heath	and	Carter	(1967),	it	was	reported	 that	
Olympic	 weight-	lifters	and	throwers	 were	mostly	mesomorphic,	 but	tended	slightly	
toward	endomorphic.	 On	the	other	hand,	most	distance	 runners	 and	basketball	 players	
are	considered	 mainly	ectomorphic.	 Indeed,	each	athlete’s	 build	is	a	unique	combina -
tion	of	these	three	components.	 Athletes	 in	certain	sports	usually	exhibit	a	predomi -
nance	of	one	component	 over	the	other	two.	For	example,	 body	builders	 exhibit	
primarily	 mesomorph	 or	muscularity,	 basketball	 centers	exhibit	primarily	 ectomorph	 or	
linearity,	and	sumo	wrestlers	exhibits	primarily	endomorph	or	fatness.
	 A	predominantly	 endomorphic	 individual	 typically	 has	short	arms	and	legs	and	a	
large	amount	 of	mass	on	their	frame.	This	hampers	 their	ability	to	compete	 in	sports	
requiring	 high	levels	of	agility	or	speed.	Sports	of	pure	strength,	 like	power	lifting,	are	
perfect	for	an	endomorph.	 Their	extra	weight	can	make	it	difficult	to	perform	 sustained	
weight-	bearing	aerobic	activities	 such	as	running.	 They	can	gain	weight	easily	and	lose	
condition	quickly	if	training	is	ceased.
	 A	predominantly	 mesomorphic	 individual	 excels	in	strength,	 speed,	and	agility.	Their	
medium	 structure	 and	height,	along	with	their	tendency	 to	gain	muscle	and	strength	
easily,	makes	them	a	strong	candidate	 for	a	top	athlete	in	almost	any	sport.	They	respond	
well	to	cardiovascular	 and	resistance	 training	 due	to	their	adaptability	 and	responsive	
physiology.	They	can	sustain	low	body	fat	levels	and	find	it	easy	to	lose	and	gain	weight.
	 A	predominantly	 ectomorphic	 individual	 is	long,	slender,	 and	thin,	and	therefore	
may	not	be	suitable	for	power	and	strength	 sports.	While	they	can	easily	grow	lean	and	
hard,	their	lack	of	musculature	 severely	 limits	their	chances	 in	sports	requiring	 mass.	

The body in health and performance 		353
Typically,	 ectomorphs	 dominate	 endurance	 sports,	such	as	distance	 running	 and	cycling.	
However,	 they	can	archive	low	levels	of	body	fat	which	may	be	detrimental	 to	health	and	
for	females	in	endurance	 sports	it	may	result	in	a	cessation	 of	periods	and	iron	defi-
ciency.	Table 	14.6 	summarizes	 the	physical	 characteristics	 and	sports	benefits	 of	the	
three	somatotypes.
Body fatness and performance
Relative	body	fat	or	percentage	 of	body	fat	is	a	major	concern	 for	athletes.	 Adding	more	
fat	to	the	body	just	to	increase	 the	athlete’s	 weight	and	overall	size	is	generally	 detri-
mental	to	performance.	 Many	studies	have	shown	that	the	higher	the	percentage	 of	
body	fat,	the	poorer	the	person’s	 athletic	performance.	 This	is	true	of	all	activities	 in	
which	the	body’s	weight	must	be	moved	through	 space,	such	as	running	 and	jumping.	 A	
negative	 association	 between	 level	of	fatness	and	sports	performance	 has	been	demon-
strated	for	a	wide	variety	of	sports	events	relating	to	speed,	endurance,	 jumping	 ability,	
and	balance	and	agility.	In	general,	leaner	athletes	perform	better.
	 Body	 composition	 can	profoundly	 influence	 running	 performance	 in	highly	trained	
distance	 runners.	 Less	fat	generally	 leads	to	better	performance.	 Early	studies	have	
demonstrated	 that	male	and	female	long-	distance	 runners	of	national	 and	international	
caliber	averaged	 4.3	and	15.2	percent	 of	body	fat,	respectively	 (Pollock	 et al.	1977,	
Wilmore	 and	Brown	1974).	These	values	are	similar	to	the	more	recent	reports	of	elite	
male	and	female	Kenyan	endurance	 runners	 who	averaged	 6.6	and	16	percent	of	body	
fat,	respectively	 (Billat	 et al.	2003).	In	terms	of	gender	comparisons,	 male	runners	 nor-
mally	have	much	less	relative	body	fat	than	female	runners;	 this	is	thought	 to	be	one	of	
the	most	important	 reasons	for	the	differences	 in	running	 performance	 between	 elite	
male	and	female	distance	 runners.	 This	contention	 is	supported	 by	a	study	of	male	and	
female	runners	who,	when	matched	 by	their	24-km	road	race	time,	did	not	differ	in	rel-
ative	body	fat	(Pate	 et al.	1985).	For	body	dimension	 and	structure,	 distance	 runners	
generally	 have	smaller	girths	and	bone	diameters	 than	their	untrained	 counterparts.	
The	best	long-	distance	 runners	 possess	an	overall	smaller	body	frame,	including	 both	
stature	and	skeletal	dimension.	 This	will	then	ensure	that	much	less	weight	would	need	
to	be	carried	in	running	 long	distances.	 Runners	 with	extra	weight	added	to	their	trunks	
have	been	shown	to	increase	 their	metabolic	 cost	of	submaximal	 exercise	 and	to	reduce	
their	maximal	 aerobic	power	(Cureton	 and	Sparling	 1980).	On	the	other	hand,	runners	
with	ectomorphic	 predominance	 and	lighter	limbs	have	been	linked	to	greater	running	
economy	or	efficiency	(Wilber	and	Pitsiladis	2012).
	 Male	 and	female	competitive	 swimmers	 generally	 have	more	body	fat	than	distance	
runners.	 Male	swimmers	 who	competed	 in	the	Tokyo	and	Mexico	City	Olympics	 were	
found	to	have	an	average	body	fat	of	12	and	9	percent,	 respectively.	 It	was	speculated	
that	because	of	a	lower	core	temperature	 due	to	cool	water	of	the	training	 environment,	
swimmers	 tend	to	have	an	increased	 appetite,	 which	is	often	not	the	case	in	athletes	who	
are	trained	on	land.	In	a	study	that	compared	 collegiate	 swimmers	 and	runners,	 Jang	 et 
al.	(1987)	found	that	female	swimmers	 consumed	 a	greater	 amount	 of	energy	
(2490	kcal)	than	female	runners	 (2040	kcal).	However,	 they	failed	to	demonstrate	 the	
difference	 in	energy	intake	between	 male	swimmers	 (3380	kcal)	and	male	distance	
runners	(3460	kcal).	Swimming	 is	a	weight-	supported	 event.	Although	 the	athletes	move	
their	own	body	mass,	swimmers 	are	supported	 by	the	buoyancy	 of	the	water,	reducing	
energy	cost	associated	 with	this	movement.	 It	is	sometimes	 argued	that	a	certain	level	of	
body	fat	is	useful	for	the	swimmer	 owing	to	enhanced	 buoyancy	 and	body	position	 or	a	
reduced	 drag	due	to	more	rounded	 body	surfaces.	 In	analyzing	 the	correlation	 between	
swimming	 performance	 and	the	physical	 characteristics	 of	a	large	group	of	female	

Table 14.6	Physical	characteristics	of	somatotypes	and	their	suitability	in	sports
Somatotype Physical characteristics Sports benefits
Endomorph •	A	pear-shaped	body
•	Wide	hips	and	shoulders
•	Wider	front	to	back	rather	than	side	to	side
•	High	fat	mass	and	fat-free	mass•		Size	benefits	sports	such	as	football	or	rugby	where	bulk	is	useful	given	that	it	can	
be	moved	powerfully
•	Often	associated	with	larger	muscle	mass	compared	with	ectomorphs
•		Tend	to	have	large	lung	capacity	which	can	make	them	suited	to	sports	such	as	
swimming	or	rowing
Mesomorph •	A	wedge-shaped	body
•	Wide,	broad	shoulders
•	Narrow	hips
•	Narrow	front	to	back	rather	than	side	to	side
•	Low	or	normal	fat	mass	and	high	fat-free	mass•	Respond	well	to	cardiovascular	and	resistance	training
•	Can	easily	gain	or	lose	weight	depending	on	the	sports’	needs
•		Often	associated	with	low	body	fat	and	high	fat-free	mass,	which	is	suitable	for	all	
sports	events
Ectomorph •	Narrow	shoulders	and	hips
•	A	narrow	chest	and	abdomen
•	Thin	arms	and	legs
•	Low	normal	fat	mass	and	low	fat-free	mass•		Light	frame	makes	them	suited	to	aerobic	activity	such	as	long-distance	running	
or	gymnastics
•	A	larger	body	surface	area-to-mass	ratio	enhances	their	heat	tolerance

The body in health and performance 		355
swimmers	 aged	from	12	to	17,	Stager	 et al.	(1984)	found	that	fat-	free	mass	was	still	a	
better	predictor	of	swimming	performance	than	body	fat.
	 Resistance-	 trained	athletes,	 particularly	 body	builders	 and	Olympic	 weight-	lifters,	
exhibit	remarkable	 muscular	 development	 and	a	relatively	 lean	physique.	 These	athletes	
possess	a	large	fat-	free	mass	because	 percentages	 of	body	fat	measured	 by	hydrostatic	
weighing	 averaged	 9.3	percent	 in	body	builders	 and	10.8	percent	 in	Olympic	 weight-	
lifters	(Katch	 et al.	1980).	However,	 using	the	weight–height	 tables,	about	20	percent	of	
these	athletes	 would	be	classified	 as	overweight.	 Interestingly,	 among	weight-	lifters,	
adding	extra	fat	weight	is	sometime	 considered	 advantageous.	 Some	weight-	lifters	add	
large	amounts	 of	fat	weight	immediately	 before	a	competition	 under	the	premise	 that	
the	additional	 weight	will	lower	their	center	of	gravity	and	give	them	a	greater	mechan-
ical	advantage	 in	lifting,	although	 this	practice	 has	not	yet	been	confirmed	 with	the	use	
of	a	scientific	 approach.	 The	sumo	wrestler	is	another	 notable	exception	 to	the	notion	
that	overall	body	fat	may	not	be	a	major	determinant	 of	athletic	success.	In	this	sport,	
the	larger	individual	 has	an	advantage	 toward	winning,	 but,	even	so,	the	wrestler	 with	
the	higher	fat-	 free	mass	should	have	the	best	overall	success.
	 Body	 weight	and	composition	 has	always	been	an	intriguing	 issue	among	American	
football	players	because	American	 football	is	a	game	that	emphasizes	 the	importance	 of	
size	of	athletes	to	be	successful.	 This	is	especially	 true	for	football	linemen.	 The	results	
of	body	composition	 analysis	for	the	American	 professional	 football	players	conducted	
by	Welham	 and	Behnke	in	1942	appear	to	be	quite	acceptable	 by	today’s	standards.	 For	
example,	 the	players	as	a	group	had	a	body	fat	content	that	averaged	 only	10.4	percent	
of	body	mass,	while	fat-	free	mass	averaged	 81	kg	(or	179	lb).	In	addition,	 the	heaviest	
lineman	 weighed	 about	118	kg	(or	260	lb)	and	had	17.4	percent	body	fat,	whereas	 the	
lineman	 with	the	most	body	fat	(23.2	percent)	 weighed	 115	kg	(or	252	lb).	During	the	
past	70	years,	however,	 there	has	been	a	steady	increase	 in	body	weight,	especially	 in	
defensive	 and	offensive	 linemen.	 For	example,	 according	 to	the	National	 Football	
League,	 the	average	body	weight	of	linemen	 reached	 127	kg	(or	280	lb)	by	1995.	Colle-
giate	linemen	 are	also	increasing	 in	size.	In	a	large	study	of	collegiate	 athletes	evaluating	
size,	football	linemen	 were	found	to	have	the	largest	increase	 in	weight	and	body	mass	
index	(Yamamoto	 et al.	2008).	A	study	by	Borchers	 et al.	(2009)	also	showed	an	average	
body	fat	of	17.3	percent	in	Division	 I	collegiate	 football	players,	with	linemen	 exhibiting	
the	highest	body	fat	percentages	 (25.6%).	 Both	defensive	 and	offensive	 linemen	 would	
have	a	decided	 advantage	 of	being	big	and	strong	in	the	game	of	American	 football.	
However,	 this	group	of	athletes	has	been	associated	 with	increased	 risks	of	cardiovascu -
lar	diseases	and	high	prevalence	of	metabolic	syndrome	and	insulin	resistance.
	 There	 are	a	number	 of	sports	in	which	competitions	 are	conducted	 with	weight	limits	
or	weight	classes,	such	as	Olympic	 weight-	lifting,	boxing,	and	wrestling.	 In	these	sports,	
weight	classes	are	designed	 to	promote	 competition	 among	athletes	 of	roughly	 equal	
size.	In	this	case,	body	mass	is	considered	 a	proxy	for	fat-	free	mass	or	muscle	mass	and,	
therefore,	 the	athlete’s	 strength	 and	power.	Despite	such	intention	 to	promote	 fair	and	
interesting	 competition	 by	matching	 opponents	 of	equal	size	and	capability,	 the	prevail-
ing	attitude	in	these	sports	is	that	the	athletes	will	gain	a	performance	 advantage	 by	com-
peting	against	smaller	and	lighter	opponents	 in	a	weight	class	that	is	lower	than	his	
natural	training	 weight.	Typically,	 the	athlete	aims	to	reduce	his	body	mass	to	the	lowest	
level	possible,	 with	much	of	this	effort	taking	place	in	the	days	before	a	competition.	
The	rapid	weight	loss	tactics	used	by	athletes	to	successfully	 weigh	in	at	a	lower	weight	
class	are	commonly	 referred	 to	as	“making	 weight.”	 The	medical	 and	scientific	 com-
munities	 have	been	concerned	 over	problems	 in	athletes	associated	 with	making	weight.	
In	a	survey	that	involved	 63	collegiate	 wrestlers	 and	368	high	school	wrestlers,	 Steen	and	
Brownell	 (1990)	found	that	the	athletes	lost	weight	on	average	15	times	during	a	normal	

356		 The body in health and performance
season,	and	the	average	for	the	most	weight	lost	at	any	one	time	was	7.2	kg	(or	15.8	lb).	A	
variety	of	aggressive	 methods	 have	been	used	by	these	athletes	to	lose	weight,	and	they	
include	dehydration,	 food	restriction,	 fasting,	and,	for	a	few,	vomiting,	 laxatives,	 and	
diuretics.	 In	addition,	 “making	 weight”	was	associated	 with	fatigue,	anger,	and	anxiety,	
and	over	one-	third	of	the	wrestlers,	 at	both	the	high	school	and	college	level,	reported	
being	preoccupied	with	food	and	eating	out	of	control	after	a	match.
Establishing an appropriate weight goal
In	light	of	the	previous	 discussion,	 athletes	could	be	pushed	well	below	the	optimal	body	
weight	range.	Therefore,	 it	is	critically	 important	 to	properly	 set	weight	standards.	 Body	
weight	standards	 should	be	based	on	an	athlete’s	 body	composition.	 Once	body	com-
position	 is	known,	the	athlete’s	 fat-	free	mass	may	then	be	determined	 and	used	to	
estimate	 what	the	athlete	should	weigh	at	a	specific	percentage	 of	body	fat.	Table	14.7	
illustrates	 how	to	determine	 weight	goal	for	a	female	athlete	who	weighs	75	kg	and	wants	
to	reduce	her	body	fat	from	20	to	15	percent.	 We	know	her	goal	weight	will	consist	of	15	
percent	fat	mass	and	85	percent	fat-	free	mass,	so	in	order	to	estimate	 her	weight	goal	at	
15	percent	body	fat	we	divide	her	current	fat-	free	mass	by	85	percent,	 which	is	the	frac-
tion	of	her	weight	goal	that	is	to	be	represented	 by	her	fat-	free	mass.	The	calculation	
yields	a	goal	weight	of	70.6	kg,	which	means	that	she	needs	to	lose	4.4	kg.	This	method	
allows	a	determination	 of	weight	goal	based	on	the	assumption	 that	the	fat-	free	mass	
stays	unchanged	 despite	a	loss	of	body	weight.	Table 	14.8 	provides	 gender-	specific	ranges	
of	body	fat	percentage	 for	various	sports,	which	may	be	used	to	determine	 an	athlete’s	
relative	fat	goal.	In	most	cases,	these	values	represent	 elite	athletes	in	those	sports.	Given	
that	body	fat	is	considered	 a	performance	 inhibitor	 in	almost	all	sports,	the	values	pre-
sented	in	Table 	14.8 	may	also	be	used	to	evaluate	 the	training	 status	of	athletes	com-
peting	in	various	sporting	events.
Body composition assessments
It	is	clear	that	measurements	 of	body	composition	 are	necessary	 and	important	 because	
the	percentages	 of	body	fat,	as	well	as	its	placement,	 can	have	profound	 effects	on	health	
and	performance.	 Estimating	 body	fat	content	 is	a	routine	practice	 in	assessing	 one’s	
nutritional	 status.	It	is	also	part	of	a	comprehensive	 health-,	fitness-	and	sports-	related	
assessment.	 Desirable	 body	fat	is	deemed	 important	 for	the	health	and	wellness	 of	all	
individuals.	 As	already	noted,	excessive	 body	fat	is	related	to	increased	 risk	of	cardiovas -
cular,	metabolic,	 pulmonary,	 and	neuromuscular	 diseases.	 Body	composition	 is	an	
important	 factor	in	most	athletic	events.	A	competitive	 edge	may	be	gained	by	the	
athlete	who	can	achieve	the	optimal	balance	between	 fat	and	fat-	free	mass	for	his	or	her	
Table 14.7 	Example	of	computing	a	weight	goal
Parameter Results
Current	weight 75	kg
Percentage	of	body	fat 20
Fat	weight 15	kg	(weight	 ×	20%)
Fat-free	weight 60	kg	(weight	–	fat	weight)
Relative	fat	goal 15%	(or	85%	fat-free	mass)
Weight	goal 70.6	kg	(fat-free	mass  ÷ 85%)
Weight	loss	goal 4.4	kg	(current	weight	–	weight	goal)

The body in health and performance 		357
particular	 sport.	Too	low	a	percentage	 of	body	fat	can	adversely	 affect	metabolism	 and	
health.	Female	 athletes	 with	overtly	low	body	fat	can	suffer	from	conditions	 of	
amenorrhea	 and	osteoporosis,	 which	are	often	accompanied	 by	an	eating	disorder	 such	
as	anorexia	 nervosa.	 The	major	reasons	why	practitioners,	 clinicians,	 and	researchers	
conduct	body	composition	assessment	are	summarized	as	follows:
•	 To	monitor	nutrition.
•	 To	assess	risk	factors	for	diseases.
•	 To	evaluate	overall	health-	and	sports-	 related	fitness.
•	 To	track	changes	in	body	composition	in	response	to	an	intervention	program.
•	 To	advance	 research	 regarding	 the	impact	of	body	composition	 upon	health	and	
performance.
•	 To	set	safety	standards.
Dozens	of	methods	 have	been	developed	 within	the	past	few	decades	 and	are	currently	
used	in	clinical,	fitness,	and	athletic	settings.	 These	methods	 vary	considerably	 in	their	
accuracy,	 required	 instruments,	 and	practicality.	 Each	method	is	associated	 with	advant-
ages	and	disadvantages,	 and	in	general	there	is	a	trade-	off	between	 accuracy	 and	practi-
cality.	The	following	 provides	 a	review	on	methods	 commonly	 used	for	assessing	 body	
composition.Table 14.8 		Ranges	of	body	fat	percentages 	for	male	and	female	athletes	
of	selected	sports
Sports Men Women
Baseball/softball 8–14 12–18
Basketball 7–11 21–27
Body-building 5–8 6–12
Cycling 5–11 10–16
American	football	(backs) 9–12 –
American	football	(linebackers) 11–14 –
American	football	(linemen) 14–18 –
American	football	(quarterbacks) 11–14 –
Gymnastics 5–12 	8–16
Field	hockey 8–16 12–16
Rowing 11–15 –
Rugby 6–16 –
Skiing	(alpine) 7–14 18–24
Skiing	(cross-country) 8–13 16–22
Soccer 7–13 10–18
Swimming 6–12 18–22
Tennis 8–16 18–22
Track-and-field	(field	events) 10–18 18–24
Track-and-field	(sprint) 8–14 12–18
Track-and-field	(long	distance) 4–10 10–16
Track-and-field	(jump) 5–10 8–14
Triathlon 5–12 8–15
Volleyball 7–15 10–20
Olympic	weight-lifting 5–12 10–18
Wrestling 5–15 –
Source:	adapted	from	McArdle	 et al.	(2009);	Powers	and	Howley	(2009);	Wilmore	
and	Costill	(2004).

358		 The body in health and performance
Laboratory methods for assessing body composition
In	many	laboratory	 and	clinical	settings,	 densitometry 	and	dual-	energy	X-	ray	absorpti-
ometry	are	used	to	obtain	reference	measures	of	body	composition.	Due	to	the	high	pre -
cision	and	reliability	 of	these	two	techniques,	 they	are	also	often	used	in	research	
settings.	 For	densitometric	 methods,	 total	body	density	(Db)	is	estimated	 from	the	ratio	
of	body	mass	(BM)	to	body	volume	(BV)	(i.e.,	Db	=	BM	÷	BV).	Body	volume	can	be	deter-
mined	by	hydrostatic	 weighing	 or	air	replacement	 plethysmography.	 As	mentioned	
earlier	in	this	chapter,	 once	body	density	is	known,	the	percentage	 of	body	fat	can	be	
calculated	using	either	the	Brozek	or	the	Siri	equation.
Hydrostatic weighing
Hydrostatic weighing 	is	a	valid,	reliable,	 and	widely	used	technique	 to	determine	 whole-	
body	density	(Wang	 et al.	2000).	The	technique	 determines	 body	volume	by	measuring	
the	volume	of	water	displaced	 by	the	body.	According	 to	the	Archimedes’ principle ,	
weight	loss	under	water	is	directly	proportional	 to	the	weight	of	water	displaced	 by	the	
body	(Figure 	14.3). 	Such	a	measure	 of	weight,	however,	 must	be	converted	 into	volume.	
As	water	density	equals	1	under	normal	circumstances	 (i.e.,	warm	water	temperature	 of	
34	to	36°C),	the	weight	of	water	is	quantitatively	 the	same	as	the	volume	of	water.	There-
fore,	by	weighing	 a	subject	under	water,	his	or	her	body	volume	may	be	determined.	
Body density 	can	be	calculated	using	the	following	formula:
Body	density	 =	WA/BV	=	WA/[(WA	 –	Net	UWW)/DW	 –	(RV	+	GV)]
Where	WA	=	body	weight	in	air;	BV	=	body	volume;	 UWW	=	body	weight	submerged	 in	
water;	DW	=	density	of	water;	RV	=	residual	 lung	volume;	 GV	=	volume	 of	gas	in	the	
gastrointestinal	tract.
	 This	approach	 is	based	on	the	two-	compartment	 model	of	body	composition:	 fat	and	
fat-	free	mass.	It	assumes	 a	constant	 fat	mass	density	of	0.90	g/cm3	and	a	density	of	fat-	
free	mass	of	1.10	g/cm3.	The	densities	 of	bone	and	muscle	tissue	are	greater	than	the	
density	of	water	(density	 of	distilled	 water	=	1.00	g/cm3),	whereas	 fat	is	less	dense	than	
water.	Thus,	a	muscular	 subject	having	a	low	percentage	 of	body	fat	tends	to	weigh	more	
Archimedes’ Principle
3 lb of
waterThe bu oyant force is equal to
the weight of the displaced water1b
01
2 6
37
541b
01
2 6
3754
3 lb
Figure 14.3 	Illustration	of	the	Archimedes’	Principle

The body in health and performance 		359
when	submerged	 in	water	than	do	subjects	 having	a	higher	percentage	 of	body	fat.	
Caution	 should	be	taken	with	regard	to	these	assumptions.	 As	mentioned	 earlier,	the	
density	of	fat-	free	mass	varies	among	individuals.	 Athletes,	 for	example,	 tend	to	have	
denser	bone	and	muscle	tissue,	whereas	 older	individuals	 tend	to	have	less	dense	bones.	
It	has	been	reported	 that	hydrostatic	 weighing	 has	a	tendency	 to	underestimate	 body	fat	
for	athletes	(possibly	 even	negative	 body	fat	values)	and	overestimate	 body	fat	for	the	
elderly	(Brodie	1988).
	 To	measure	 underwater	 weighing,	 one	may	use	a	tank,	tub,	or	pool	of	sufficient	 size	
for	total	body	submission	 and	a	chair	or	platform	 attached	 to	electronical	 load	cells	
(Figure	14.4). 	The	water	should	be	comfortably	 warm,	filtered,	 chlorinated,	 and	undis-
turbed	by	wind	or	other	activity	in	the	water	during	testing.	It	is	important	 to	note	that	
the	Archimedes’	 principle	 applies	to	the	condition	 where	there	is	minimal	 movement	 in	
the	body	relative	to	the	surrounding	 water.	This	may	be	more	easily	achieved	 in	an	iso-
lated	water	tank.	However,	 a	large	amount	of	error	may	occur	when	underwater	 weigh-
ing	is	conducted	 in	a	pool.	When	measuring	 with	a	pool,	it	is	suggested	 to	use	a	wooden	
shell	to	reduce	water	movement,	thereby	enhancing	precision.
	 Please	 note	that	the	net	underwater	 weight	(UWW)	 as	shown	in	the	formula	 above	is	
the	difference	 between	 UWW	and	the	weight	of	the	equipment	 such	as	the	chair	or	plat-
form	and	its	supporting	 device.	The	BV	must	be	corrected	 for	the	volume	of	air	remaining 	
in	the	lungs	after	a	maximal	expiration, 	which	is	residual	volume	or	RV,	as	well	as	the	
volume	of	air	in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	(GV).	The	GV	is	assumed	 to	be	100	ml	(Heyward 	
2002).	The	RV	is	commonly	 measured	 using	helium	dilution,	 nitrogen	 washout,	 or	oxygen	
dilution	techniques,	 although	 it	can	also	be	predicted	 based	on	the	subject’s	 age,	gender,	
and	height.	In	adult	men,	this	value	is	between	 1.5	to	2	liters	depending	 on	body	size.	For	
women,	values	are	somewhat	lower	due	to	their	smaller	size.
	 Hydrostatic	 weighing	 has	been	considered	 the	good	standard	 against	which	other	
body	composition	 estimates	 are	validated.	 There	are,	however,	 distinct	limitations	 associ-
ated	with	this	method.	 It	is	inappropriate	 for	settings	that	cannot	house	a	1000-gallon	
Figure 14.4 	Hydrostatic	weight	using	electronic	load	cells	and	platform
Source:	Heyward	(2010).	Used	with	permission.

360		 The body in health and performance
tank.	The	tank	must	be	cleaned	 and	disinfected	 regularly,	 and	the	tank	water	must	be	
maintained	 within	a	range	of	acceptable	 temperatures,	 because	 the	density	of	water	
varies	with	temperature.	 The	method	 requires	 the	determination	 of	residual	 lung	
volume,	 which	can	be	technically	 challenging.	 Because	 air	density	is	zero,	even	a	small	
error	in	the	estimate	 of	air	volume	can	significantly	 affect	the	calculation	 of	body	
density.	 Hydrostatic	 weighing	 may	not	be	used	with	persons	 who	are	afraid	of	total	
immersion	 in	water,	especially	 considering	 that	the	procedure	 requires	 forcible	exhala-
tion	while	submerged.	 Neither	is	it	an	appropriate	 method	for	persons	with	certain	pul-
monary	 disorders,	 such	as	asthma	and	emphysema.	 In	addition,	 special	adjustments	
must	be	made	for	morbidly	 obese	persons	who	tend	to	float	in	water;	they	often	have	to	
wear	weights	to	keep	them	underwater.
Air displacement plethysmography
As	an	alternative	 to	underwater	 weighing,	 body	volume	and,	consequently,	 body	density	
and	percentage	 of	body	fat	can	be	measured	 by	a	technique	 known	as	air displacement 
plethysmography .	Compared	 to	hydrostatic	 weighing,	 this	method	is	relatively	 expensive, 	
requiring	 the	use	of	a	whole-	body	plethysmography	 (i.e.,	Bod	Pod).	The	Bod	Pod	is	a	large,	
egg-	shaped	fiberglass	 shell	(Figure 	14.5). 	The	molded	front	seat	separates	 the	unit	into	a	
front	and	rear	chamber.	 The	electronics,	 housed	in	the	rear	of	the	chamber,	 include	pres-
sure	transducers, 	breathing 	circuit,	and	an	air	circulation 	system.	The	technique 	uses	
Figure 14.5 	Air	displacement	plethysmograph

The body in health and performance 		361
Boyle’s law ,	which	states	that	at	a	constant	 temperature	 for	a	fixed	mass,	the	product	 of	
pressure	 and	volume	of	a	gas	is	a	constant	 and	pressure	 and	volume	are	inversely	 propor-
tional.	Mathematically,	 Boyle’s	law	can	be	expressed	 as	PV =	k,	where	 P	is	the	pressure	 of	
the	gas,	V	is	the	volume	of	the	gas,	and	k	is	constant.	 For	comparing	 the	same	substance 	
under	two	different	 conditions,	 the	law	may	be	usefully	expressed	 as	P1V1	=	P2V2.	The	equa-
tion	shows	that,	as	volume	increases,	 the	pressure	 of	the	gas	decreases	 in	proportion.	 Sim-
ilarly,	as	volume	decreases,	the	pressure	of	the	gas	increases.
	 This	relationship	 allows	for	the	derivation	 of	an	unknown	 volume	by	directly	measur-
ing	pressure.	 During	a	measurement,	 the	Bod	Pod	produces	 very	small	volume	changes	
inside	the	chamber	 and	measures	 the	pressure	 response	 to	these	small	volume	changes.	
To	accomplish	 this,	the	interior	volume	of	the	empty	Bod	Pod	chamber	 is	first	deter-
mined,	and	the	volume,	 once	the	subject	is	seated	inside	the	Bod	Pod,	is	also	deter-
mined.	The	subject’s	 volume	is	obtained	 by	subtraction.	 For	example,	 if	the	interior	air	
volume	of	the	empty	chamber	 is	400	liters	and	the	volume	of	the	chamber	 is	reduced	 to	
350	liters	with	the	subject	inside,	then	the	body	volume	of	the	subject	is	50	liters.
	 Using	 this	method,	 the	thoracic	 gas	volume,	 which	includes	 all	air	in	the	lungs	and	
airway,	is	measured	 instead	of	residual	 lung	volume.	 The	measurement	 uses	the	same	
principle	 of	the	pressure–volume	 relationship.	 During	this	measurement,	 the	subject’s	
nostrils	are	sealed	with	a	nose	clip,	and	the	subject	is	instructed	 to	breathe	 quietly	
through	 a	single-	use,	disposable	 breathing	 tube	that	connects	 to	a	breathing	 circuit	
housed	in	the	unit’s	rear	chamber	 when	the	chamber	 remains	 closed.	After	several	
normal	breaths,	 a	valve	in	the	breathing	 circuit	is	momentarily	 closed	at	the	mid	point	
of	an	exhaustion.	 The	subject	compresses	 and	then	relaxes	the	diaphragm	 muscle.	This	
produces	 small	pressure	 fluctuations,	 which	are	measured	 and	used	to	calculate	 the	tho-
racic	air	volume.
	 Compared	 to	hydrostatic	 weighing,	 this	method	 is	quick,	usually	taking	between	 five	
and	ten	minutes	 to	complete.	 It	is	also	relatively	 simple	to	operate,	 and	can	accom-
modate	those	who	are	obese,	elderly,	disabled,	 as	well	as	those	who	are	afraid	of	total	
immersion	 in	water.	Limited	 demands	 are	placed	on	the	subject	as	the	procedure	 does	
not	require	maximal	 exhalation	 in	order	for	the	residual	 volume	to	be	used	for	calcula-
tion.	The	Bod	Pod	is	mobile	so	that	it	can	be	moved	from	one	location	 to	another.	 In	
addition,	this	method	requires	minimal	training	and	equipment	maintenance.
	 Despite	 the	fact	that	air	displacement	 plethysmography	 overcomes	 some	of	the	
methodological	 and	technical	 constraints	 of	hydrostatic	 weighing,	 more	studies	seem	to	
be	necessary	 to	continue	 validating	 this	method.	 Some	studies,	especially	 when	using	a	
heterogeneous	 group	of	healthy	adults,	have	reported	 good	test-	retest	reliability	 and	
validity	compared	 to	hydrostatic	 weighing	 (McCrory	 et al.	1995,	Vescovi	 et al.	2001).	
However,	 this	method	has	been	questioned	 for	its	validity	in	assessing	 body	composition	
among	athletes,	 children,	 and	different	 ethnic	subgroups.	 For	example,	 the	Bod	Pod	
was	found	to	underestimate	 percentage	 body	fat	in	children	 (Lockner	 et al.	2000).	It	was	
also	reported	 that	this	method	underestimated	 percentage	 body	fat	in	collegiate	 football	
players	(Collins	 et al.	1999)	and	over-	predicted	 percent	body	fat	in	collegiate	 track-	and-
field	female	athletes	(Bentzur	 et al.	2008).	In	addition,	 this	method	 was	found	to	over-
estimate	percent	body	fat	of	African	American	men	(Wagner	 et al.	2000).
Dual- energy X- ray absorptiometry
Dual- energy X- ray absorptiometry 	(DEXA)	 is	gaining	in	popularity	 as	a	standard	 tech-
nique	for	measuring	 body	composition.	 This	technique	 was	initially	developed	 for	the	
measurement	 of	bone	density.	Because	 this	technique	 can	also	identify	soft	tissue	and	
categorize	 it	as	fat	or	lean	mass,	there	has	been	a	great	deal	of	interest	in	using	DEXA	

362		 The body in health and performance
for	assessing	 relative	body	fat	content.	 The	DEXA	system	generates	 two	X-	ray	beams	with	
differing	 energy	levels	that	can	penetrate	 bone	and	soft	tissue.	The	procedure	 involves	a	
series	of	cross-	sectional	 scans	from	head	to	toe	at	1-cm	intervals,	 and	body	composition	
is	determined	 based	on	differential	 photon	absorption	 of	bone	minerals	 and	soft	tissue.	
An	entire	DEXA	scan	takes	approximately	 10	to	20	minutes	 depending	 on	body	size.	
Computer	 algorithms	 reconstruct	 the	attenuated	 X-	ray	beams	to	produce	 an	image	of	
the	underlying	 tissue	and	quantify	 bone	mineral	 density,	fat	content,	 and	fat-	free	mass	
for	the	whole	body	as	well	as	for	various	sections	of	the	body,	including	 the	head,	truck,	
hips,	and	limbs	( Figure	14.6).
	 DEXA	 is	precise,	 accurate,	 and	reliable.	 Its	measurements	 are	based	on	a	three-	
compartmental	 model	–	that	is,	bone	mineral,	 fat	mass,	and	soft	lean	mass	–	rather	than	
on	a	two-	compartmental	 model	as	in	most	other	methods.	 In	this	context,	 DEXA	can	
provide	 accurate	 assessments	 of	fat	and	fat-	free	mass	in	individuals	 with	below-	and	
above-	average	bone	mineral	 density.	DEXA	requires	 little	effort	and	cooperation	 from	
the	subjects	and,	as	such,	the	method	will	be	suitable	to	a	broader	 range	of	individuals,	
including	 those	who	are	very	young,	very	old,	or	diseased.	 A	single	scan	produces	
regional	 and	whole-	body	estimates	 of	fat	and	fat-	free	mass.	By	comparing	 regional	 fat	
content	in	the	trunk	and	limbs,	clinicians	 and	researchers	 can	also	obtain	information	
with	regard	to	body	fat	distribution	 of	the	subject.	There	is	a	high	degree	of	agreement	
between	percentage	body	fat	estimates	obtained	by	hydrostatic	weighing	and	by	DEXA.
	 DEXA	 has	some	limitations.	 The	equipment	 is	expensive,	 and	often	requires	 trained	
radiology	 personnel	 to	operate.	 As	differences	 in	hydration	 of	lean	tissue	can	produce	
errors	in	estimating	 body	composition,	 concerns	 have	been	raised	about	the	appropri -
ateness	of	using	DEXA	for	assessing	 body	composition	 in	individuals	 with	acute	or	
chronic	changes	 in	body	water	(Elowsson	 et al.	1998).	In	addition,	 DEXA	measurements	
of	body	composition	 are	sensitive	 to	the	anterior-	 posterior	 thickness	 of	the	body	or	body	
parts,	so	that	results	may	be	confounded	 by	the	size	and	shape	of	an	individual	
(Roubenoff	 et al.	1993).
Figure 14.6 	Dual-energy	X-ray	absorptiometer

The body in health and performance 		363
Field methods for assessing body composition
While	laboratory	 methods	 are	commonly	 used	to	assess	fat	mass,	field	measures,	 such	as	
skinfold	 thickness	 and	bioelectrical	 impedance,	 may	be	more	practical	 for	screening	
large	numbers	 of	individuals	 within	a	short	period	of	time.	These	methods	 are	relatively	
inexpensive	 and	simple	to	perform.	 In	order	to	use	these	methods	 appropriately	 and	to	
produce	 results	that	are	reasonably	 accurate	 and	reliable,	 one	should	understand	 the	
basic	assumptions	 and	rationale	 as	well	as	potential	 sources	of	error	associated	 with	each	
method.	 A	sufficient	 practice	 is	also	necessary	 in	order	to	ensure	measurement	 accuracy	
and	reliability.
Skinfold method
The	 skinfold	method	 is	probably	 the	most	frequently	 used	of	all	body	composition	
methods.	 A	skinfold	 is	a	double	fold	of	skin	and	the	immediate	 layer	of	subcutaneous	 fat	
and	is	measured	 in	millimeters	 by	a	special	tool	called	a	caliper.	The	accuracy	 of	skinfold	
measurements	 is	affected	 by	the	type	of	caliper	used.	The	three	calipers	 shown	in	
Figure	14.7 	operate	on	the	same	principle	 as	a	micrometer	 that	measures	 the	distance	
between	 two	points.	However,	 Lange	and	Harpenden,	 which	cost	several	hundred	
dollars,	are	considered	 the	better	choices	compared	 with	plastic	calipers	 in	terms	of	
yielding	 reasonably	 reliable	 skinfold	 results.	These	calipers	 exert	constant	 pressure	
across	the	entire	range	of	skinfold	 thickness.	 On	the	other	hand,	the	plastic	calipers	
tend	to	be	most	accurate	 through	 the	middle	range	of	percent	body	fat;	the	measure-
ments	of	very	 thin and	very	thick	skinfolds	are	most	likely	to	be	inaccurate.
	 There	 are	more	than	100	equations	 available	 for	estimating	 percent	body	fat	from	skin-
fold	thickness	 (Heyward	 2002).	These	equations	 differ	by	number	and	location	of	skinfold	
sites.	They	also	differ	in	terms	of	populations	 being	used	for	developing	 the	equation. 	
Some	of	them	are	quite	general,	meaning	 that	equations	 may	be	used	for	any	healthy	adult	
within	the	same	gender.	Others	are	more	specific	and	were	developed	 for	relatively	 homo-
geneous	 subgroups	 of	populations.	 The	population-	 specific	equations	 are	assumed	 to	be	
valid	only	for	subjects	who	have	similar	characteristics,	 such	as	age,	gender,	ethnicity,	 or	
level	of	physical	activity.	For	example,	 the	equation	 derived	from	adults	would	not	be	valid	
for	use	among	children	 and	adolescents.	 Generally	 speaking,	 in	a	research	 setting,	a	seven-	
site	procedure 	is	most	often	adopted, 	with	measurements 	taken	by	Harpenden 	or	Lange	
calipers.	 In	clinical	or	field	settings,	 four-	site,	three-	site,	and	even	two-	site	procedures	 are	
more	commonly	 chosen.	In	these	settings,	 the	loss	of	accuracy	 due	to	the	use	of	fewer	
Lange Harpenden Common plastic
Figure 14.7 		Common	 skinfold	 calipers.	 The	Lange	and	Harpenden	 calipers	provide	constant	
tension	at	all	jaw	openings

364		 The body in health and performance
skinfold	sites	is	largely	compensated	 by	the	gain	in	practicality.	 It	is	also	recommended	 to	
use	equations	 that	have	skinfolds	 measured	 from	a	variety	of	sites,	including	 both	upper	
and	lower	body	regions	(Martin	 et al.	1985).	Table 	14.9 	presents	 some	of	the	commonly 	
used	generalized	 skinfold	equations	 for	predicting	 body	density.	These	questions	 allow	for	
calculation	 of	body	density,	with	the	latter	being	converted	 into	percent	body	fat	using	
either	the	Brozek	or	the	Siri	equation	as	previously	discussed.
	 To	reduce	error,	skinfold	 sites	should	be	precisely	 determined	 and,	in	some	cases,	
marked	 for	enhancing	 repeatability.	 The	following	 describes	 eight	most	commonly 	
used	skinfold	 sites	as	outlined	 in	the	Anthropometric standardization reference manual  
(Lohman	1988):
•	 Chest:	 measure	 with	a	diagonal	 skinfold	 midway	between	 the	right	nipple	and	ante-
rior	axillary	line	(imaginary	 line	dropping	 straight	 down	from	the	front	of	the	
armpit).
•	 Triceps:	 measured	 with	a	vertical	skinfold	 at	the	posterior	 midline	of	the	right	upper	
arm	over	the	triceps	midway	between	 the	lateral	projection	 of	the	acromion	 process	
of	the	scapula	and	the	inferior	margin	of	the	olecranon	process	of	the	ulna.
•	 Subscapular:	 measured	 at	1	cm	below	the	lowest	angle	of	the	scapula	on	the	diago-
nal	fold	that	runs	from	the	vertebral	border	downward.
•	 Midaxillary:	 measured	 with	a	horizontal	 skinfold	at	the	right	midaxillary	 line	(a	vertical	
line	extending	from	the	middle	of	the	axillar)	level	with	the	xiphisternal	junction.
•	 Suprailliac:	 measured	 at	just	above	the	crest	of	the	right	illum	on	a	diagonal	 skinfold	
that	runs	from	the	anterior	axillary	line	downward.
•	 Abdomen:	 measured	 with	a	horizontal	 fold	at	approximately	 2	cm	to	the	right	of	
and	1	cm	below	the	mid	point	of	the	umbilicus.
•	 Thigh:	 measured	 with	a	vertical	skinfold	 at	the	midline	of	the	anterior	 aspect	of	the	
thigh	midway	between	 the	junction	 of	the	midline	and	the	inguinal	 crease	and	the	
proximal	border	of	the	patella.
•	 Medial	 calf:	measured	 with	a	vertical	skinfold	 at	the	point	of	maximal	 circumference	
and	medial	aspect	of	the	calf.
The	technique	 of	measuring	 a	skinfold	 is	the	same	regardless	 of	the	equations	 being	
used	to	assess	body	composition.	 The	accuracy	 and	reliability	 of	measurement	 depends	
largely	on	the	skill	of	the	examiner.	 Examiners	 can	improve	 the	accuracy	 of	results	by	
training	 with	an	experienced	 and	skilled	technician,	 practicing	 on	clients	of	different	
body	types,	carefully	 identifying	 and	marking	 skinfold	 sites,	and	following	 standardized	
procedures.	 In	addition,	 because	 the	conversion	 from	skinfolds	 to	body	fatness	is	influ-
enced	by	ethnicity,	 gender,	and	age,	it	is	especially	 important	 to	use	an	appropriate	 pre-
diction	equation	 for	the	individual	 being	tested.	Skinfold	 measurements,	 when	taken	
properly,	 correlate	 highly	(r	=	0.83–0.89)	 with	hydrostatic	 weighing,	 with	a	standard	 error	
of	approximately	 3	to	4	percent.	 This	error	should	always	be	kept	in	mind	when	using	
tables	or	equations	 to	convert	skinfold	 thickness	 into	percent	body	fat.	Because	 of	such	
potential	 error,	researchers	 often	choose	to	stay	with	the	skinfold	 thickness	 measure-
ment	rather	than	convert	it	into	percent	 body	fat,	especially	 when	repeated	 measure-
ments	are	made	of	the	same	subject.
	 The	following	are	the	general	guidelines	for	taking	the	skinfold	measurement:
•	 All	skinfolds	should	be	taken	on	the	right	side	of	the	body.
•	 Grasp	 the	skinfold	 firmly	between	 the	thumb	and	index	finger	of	the	left	hand,	with	
the	thumb	and	index	finger	being	placed	about	1	cm	above	the	skinfold	 site.	It	is	
important	to	lift	only	skin	and	fat	tissue,	not	muscle.

Table 14.9	Generalized	equations	for	predicting	body	density	(Db)	for	adult	men	and	women
Gender Skinfold sites Equations
Men 7	sites	(chest,	midaxillary,	triceps,	subscapula,	
abdomen,	suprailiac,	thigh)Db	=	1.112–0.00043499( ∑7	skinfolds)	 +	0.00000055	( ∑7	skinfolds)2–0.00028826	(age)
4	sites	(abdomen,	suprailiac,	triceps,	thigh) Db	=	0.29288	( ∑4	skinfolds)	 +	0.0005	( ∑4	skinfolds)2	+	0.15845	(age)	–	5.76377
3	sites	(chest,	abdomen,	thigh) Db	=	1.10938–0.0008267	( ∑3	skinfolds)	 +	0.0000016	( ∑3	skinfolds)2–0.0002574	(age)
Women 7	sites	(chest,	midaxillary,	triceps,	subscapula,	
abdomen,	suprailiac,	thigh)Db	=	1.097–0.00046971( ∑7	skinfolds)	 +	0.00000056	(( ∑7	skinfolds)2–0.00012828	(age)
4	sites	(abdomen,	suprailiac,	triceps,	thigh) Db	=	0.29669	( ∑4	skinfolds)	 +	0.00043	( ∑4	skinfolds)2	+	0.02963	(age)	–	1.4072
3	sites	(triceps,	suprailiac,	thigh) Db	=	1.0994921–0.0009929	( ∑3	skinfolds)	 +	0.0000023	( ∑3	skinfolds)2–0.0001392	(age)
Sources:	Jackson	 et al.	(1980);	Jackson	and	Pollock	(1978).

366		 The body in health and performance
•	 Do	not	take	measurements	 when	the	subject’s	 skin	is	moist	because	 there	is	a	tend-
ency	to	grasp	extra	skin,	obtaining	 inaccurately	 large	values.	Also,	do	not	take	meas-
urements	 immediately	 after	exercise	 or	when	the	subject	being	measured	 is	
overheated	 because	 the	shift	of	body	fluid	to	the	skin	may	expand	normal	skinfold	
thickness.
•	 The	 skinfold	 is	lifted	by	placing	the	thumb	and	index	finger	on	the	skin	about	8	cm	
(or	3	in)	apart	and	perpendicular	 to	the	desired	skinfold.	 However,	 for	individuals	
with	extremely	 large	skinfolds,	 the	starting	separation	 between	 the	thumb	and	index	
finger	should	be	greater	than	8	 cm	in	order	to	lift	the	fold.
•	 Keep	 the	fold	elevated	 when	the	caliper	is	being	applied	to	the	skinfold	 site.	The	
caliper	jaws	should	be	placed	perpendicular	 to	the	long	axis	of	the	skinfold	 and	
about	midway	between	 the	base	and	crest	of	the	skinfold,	 and	jaw	pressure	 is	then	
released	slowly.
•	 The	 measurement	 should	be	read	within	two	seconds	 after	the	caliper	pressure	 is	
applied,	 and	should	always	be	repeated	 two	to	three	times	so	that	an	average	skin-
fold	value	is	recorded	for	each	site.
•	 Upon	 completion,	 open	the	caliper	jaws	before	remove	the	caliper	from	the	skin-
fold	site.
Bioelectrical impedance analysis
Bioelectrical impedance analysis 	(BIA)	measures	 body	composition	 based	on	the	under-
standing	 that	lean	tissue,	owing	to	its	higher	water	content,	 is	a	much	better	conductor	
of	electricity	 than	fat	tissue,	which	contains	 considerably	 less	water.	In	BIA,	an	electronic	
instrument	 generates	 a	low-	dose	and	harmless	 current	 (800	µA	at	50	kHz),	which	is	
passed	through	 the	person	being	measured.	 BIA	determines	 the	electrical	 impedance,	
or	opposition	 to	the	flow	of	this	electric	current.	 This	information	 is	then	used	to	
estimate	 total	body	water	and	fat-	free	mass.	Figure 	14.8 	demonstrates	 two	examples	 of	
bioelectrical	 impendence	 analyzers,	 which	have	also	been	marketed	 for	home	use.	The	
Tanita	analyzer	 measures	 lower	body	resistance	 between	 the	two	legs	as	the	individual	
stands	on	the	electrode	 plates.	The	Omron	analyzer,	 which	is	handheld,	 measures	 upper	
body	resistance	between	the	two	arms.
	 There	 are	a	wide	variety	of	BIA	equations	 available	 for	predicting	 fat-	free	mass	and	
percent	body	fat.	These	prediction	 equations	 are	based	on	either	population-	 specific	or	
generalized	 models,	which	may	be	found	in	the	book	by	Hayward	 and	Stolarczyk	 (1996).	
Early	models	of	BIA	instruments	 simply	provide	the	operator	 with	a	value	of	resistance,	
which	requires	 further	calculation	 that	uses	an	appropriate	 equation	 to	determine	 the	
subject’s	 percent	 body	fat.	However,	 most	of	the	current	and	more	sophisticated	 BIA	
instruments	 now	contain	some	prediction	 equations	 to	be	selected	 along	with	a	com-
puter	and	printer,	which	have	made	data	analysis	much	easier.	In	general,	 it	has	been	
recommended	 not	to	use	the	fat-	free	mass	and	percent	 body	fat	estimates	 obtained	
directly	from	the	BIA	instrument	 unless	the	equations	 are	known	to	apply	directly	to	the	
subjects	being	measured.	 In	other	words,	one	can	obtain	a	value	of	resistance	 from	the	
analyzer	 and	then	look	for	an	appropriate	 equation	 for	converting	 the	resistance	 into	
percent	 body	fat.	The	prediction	 equations	 are	valid	only	for	subjects	 whose	physical	
characteristics	are	similar	to	those	specified	in	the	equation.
	 BIA	has	the	advantage	 of	being	safe,	quick,	portable,	 and	easy	to	use.	It	requires	 little	
or	no	technical	 knowledge	 or	skills	of	the	operator	 or	the	client.	It	is	less	intrusive	 as	
compared	 to	the	hydrostatic	 weighing	 and	skinfold	 measurement.	 When	the	proper	
measurement	 guidelines	 are	followed	 and	the	appropriate	 BIA	equation	 is	used,	results	
of	BIA	have	been	found	to	have	about	the	same	accuracy	as	the	skinfold	method.

The body in health and performance 		367
	 The	major	disadvantage	 is	that	BIA	assumes	 that	subjects	are	normally	 hydrated	 when	
such	an	assumption	 is	often	incorrect.	 The	state	of	hydration	 can	greatly	affect	the	accu-
racy	of	BIA.	This	is	because	any	change	in	bodily	water	can	alter	normal	electrolyte	 con-
centrations,	 which	in	turn	affect	the	flow	of	electrical	 current	independent	 of	a	real	
change	in	body	composition.	 For	example,	 dehydration	 caused	by	insufficient	 water	
intake,	excessive	 perspiration,	 heavy	exercise,	 or	caffeine	 or	alcohol	use	will	lead	to	an	
overestimation	 of	body	fat	content	 by	increasing	 bioelectrical	 impedance.	 To	prevent	
this,	subjects	should	be	 advised	to	refrain	from	consuming	 caffeine	and	alcohol	24	hours	
before	testing	and	to	avoid	heavy	exercise	 12	hours	before	testing.	It	is	also	recom-
mended	 that	BIA	measurements	 be	made	in	a	room	with	normal	ambient	 temperature	
and	that	no	testing	be	given	to	anyone	who	is	on	diuretic	medications	 within	seven	days	
of	the	test,	or	female	subjects	who	perceive	that	they	are	retaining	water	during	the	stage	
of	their	menstrual	cycle.
Circumference measurements
Measuring	 girth	or	circumference 	represents	 another	 category	 of	anthropometric	
methods	 in	addition	 to	measuring	 skinfold	 and	skeletal	breadth	 as	discussed	 earlier	in	
this	chapter.	 Methods	 are	available	 that	involve	measuring	 circumference	 for	assessing	
body	composition	 (Weltman	 et al.	1987,	1988,	Tran	and	Weltman	 1988).	In	fact,	in	com-
parison	 with	skinfold	 technique,	 measures	 of	circumference	 are	considered	 more	
accurate	 and	feasible	for	use	in	obese	individuals	 where	conducting	 a	skinfold	 test	is	
often	difficult	 and	sometimes	 impossible	 (Seip	and	Weltman	 1991).	Circumference	
measurements	 are	also	useful	in	clinical	settings.	 For	example,	 measurements	 of	waist	
circumference	 and	the	ratio	of	waist	to	hip	circumference	 can	help	distinguish	 between	Figure 14.8 	Common	bioelectrical	impendence	analyzers


368		 The body in health and performance
patterns	 of	fat	distribution	 in	the	upper	and	lower	body.	They	provide	an	important	
indication	 of	disease	risk.	As	shown	in	Table 	14.3, 	a	waist	circumference	 larger	than	
102	cm	in	men	or	88	cm	in	women	is	considered	 a	risk	factor	independent	 of	obesity.	
Likewise,	 young	adults	with	a	waist-	to-hip	ratio	larger	than	0.94	for	men	and	0.82	for	
women	are	at	high	risk	for	adverse	health	consequences	 (Bray	and	Gray	1988).	Waist	cir-
cumference	 reflects	the	abdominal	 fat	accumulation.	 It	is	considered	 that	fat	stored	in	
this	region	is	more	responsible	 for	the	pathological	 processes	 that	cause	insulin	resist-
ance,	type	2	diabetes,	and	heart	disease.
	 Using	 measures	 of	circumference	 to	assess	body	composition	 has	its	unique	advantage	
in	testing	that	involves	 obese	individuals.	 When	studying	 obese	populations,	 it	is	often	
difficult	to	obtain	accurate	 skinfold	 measurements	 because	(1)	the	skinfold	 may	exceed	
the	maximum	 opening	 capacity	 of	the	caliper;	(2)	caliper	tips	may	slide	on	large	skin-
fold;	and	(3)	readings	 tend	to	decrease	 with	subsequent	 measurements	 due	to	repeated	
compression	 of	the	subcutaneous	 fat.	To	overcome	 these	shortcomings	 associated	 with	
the	skinfold	 method,	 Weltman	 et al.	(1987,	1988)	developed	 and	cross-	validated	 body	
composition	 prediction	 equations	 for	obese	men	and	women	using	height,	weight,	and	
measures	 of	waist	and	abdomen	 circumference	 as	predictor	 variables.	 These	gender-	
specific	equations	are	listed	as	follows:
Obese	men:	%	fat	 =	0.31457(mean	abdomen)	 –	0.10969(Wt)	 +	10.8336
Obese	women:	%	fat	=	0.11077(mean	 abdomen)	 –	0.17666(Ht)	 +	0.14354(Wt)	 +	51.03301
In	these	equations,	 mean	abdomen	 =	the	average	 of	two	circumferences	 measured	 at	
waist	and	abdomen,	 Wt	=	weight,	and	Ht	=	height.	Waist	circumference	 is	determined	 by	
placing	the	tape	in	a	horizontal	 plane	at	the	level	of	the	narrowest	 part	of	the	torso	as	
seen	from	the	anterior	 aspect.	The	abdomen	 circumference	 is	determined	 by	placing	
the	tape	at	the	level	of	the	umbilicus.	 Both	measurements	 are	taken	at	the	end	of	a	
normal	expiration.
	 Circumferences	 should	be	measured	 by	using	an	anthropometric	 tape,	which	is	made	
from	flexible	material	 that	does	not	stretch	with	use.	Some	anthropometric	 tapes	have	a	
spring-	loaded	handle	that	allows	a	constant	 tension	to	be	applied	during	the	measure-
ment.	The	examiner	 should	hold	the	zero	end	of	the	tape	in	the	left	hand,	just	above	or	
below	the	remaining	 tape	held	in	the	right	hand.	The	tape	should	be	snug	around	the	
body	part	without	indenting	 the	skin	or	compressing	 subcutaneous	 adipose	tissue.	Dupli-
cate	measurements	 should	be	taken,	and	the	circumference	 measurement	 should	be	
recorded	 to	the	nearest	half	centimeter	 or	quarter	inch.	Compared	 to	the	skinfold	 tech-
nique,	skill	is	not	a	major	source	of	measurement	 error.	However,	 examiners	 should	
practice	 sufficiently	 and	to	closely	follow	standardized	 testing	procedures	 for	locating	
measurement	 sites,	positioning	 the	anthropometric	 tape,	and	applying	 tension	during	
the measurement.
Summary
•	 Weight–height	 tables	provide	a	rough	estimate	 of	ideal	weight	for	a	given	height.	
The	lowest	mortality	 in	the	United	States	is	associated	 with	body	weights	that	are	
somewhat	 below	average	 for	a	given	group	based	on	sex	and	stature.	However,	
weight–height	 tables	reveal	little	about	an	individual’s	 body	composition.	 Studies	of	
athletes	clearly	show	that	being	overweight	 does	not	necessarily	 coincide	 with	exces-
sive	body	fat.
•	 BMI	 relates	more	closely	to	body	fat	and	health	risk	than	simply	body	mass	and	
stature.	BMI	may	be	used	in	conjunction	 with	skinfold	 measurements	 or	waist	

The body in health and performance 		369
circumference	 as	an	improved	 means	of	assessing	 increased	 risk	in	adults	for	heart	
disease,	stroke,	type	2	diabetes,	 and	premature	 death.	Still,	BMI	fails	to	consider	 the	
proportion	of	fat	mass	and	fat-	 free	mass.
•	 Total	 body	fat	consists	 of	essential	 fat	and	storage	fat.	Essential	 fat	contains	 fat	
present	 in	bone	marrow,	 nerve	tissue,	and	organs	and	serves	as	an	important 	
component	 for	normal	 biological	 function.	 Storage	 fat	represents	 the	energy	
reserve	that	accumulates	 mainly	as	adipose	tissue	beneath	 the	skin	and	in	visceral	
depots.
•	 Athletes	 generally	 have	physical	 characteristics	 unique	to	their	specific	 sport.	
Weight-	lifters	or	field	event	athletes	 exhibit	as	primarily	 endomorph	 and	have	
relatively	 large	fat-	free	body	mass	and	high	percentage	 of	body	fat,	whereas	 dis-
tance	runners	 or	basketball	 players	are	mainly	ectomorphic	 and	have	the	lowest	
fat-	free	mass	and	fat	mass.	Most	athletes	 are	considered	 mesomorphic	 and	have	
greater	muscle	mass	that	allows	them	to	excel	in	strength,	speed,	and	agility.
•	 Percent	 body	fat	is	a	major	concern	 of	athletes.	 Many	studies	have	shown	that	the	
higher	the	percentage	 of	body	fat,	the	poorer	the	person’s	 athletic	performance.	
This	is	true	for	all	activities	 in	which	the	body	weight	must	be	moved	through	 space,	
such	as	running	 and	jumping.	 A	negative	 association	 between	 level	of	fatness	and	
sports	performance	 has	been	demonstrated	 for	a	wide	variety	of	sports	events	relat-
ing	to	speed,	endurance,	jumping	ability,	and	balance	and	agility.
•	 Densitometry	 involves	 measuring	 the	density	of	the	entire	body	usually	by	hydro-
static	weighing,	 with	body	density	being	converted	 later	into	percent	body	fat	using	
either	the	Brozek	or	the	Siri	equation.	 Hydrostatic	 weighing	 remains	 the	laboratory	
standard,	 but	the	time,	expense,	 and	expertise	 needed	is	prohibitive	 for	many	clini-
cal	settings.
•	 Air	displacement	 plethysmography	 also	measures	 body	density	and	thus	body	com-
position.	 Subjects	 better	tolerate	 this	method	 than	hydrostatic	 weighing.	 This	
method	 requires	 less	subject	cooperation,	 and	residual	 volume	measurements	 are	
not	needed.	 It	is	as	accurate	 as	hydrostatic	 weighing,	 but	the	equipment	 is	relatively	
more	complex	and	costly.
•	 Measurement	 of	skinfolds	 is	the	most	widely	used	method	 of	indirectly	 estimating	
percentage	 of	body	fat.	The	equipment	 is	inexpensive	 and	portable.	 Measurements	
can	be	easily	and	quickly	obtained,	 and	they	correlate	 well	with	body	density	meas-
urements.	 However,	 proper	measurement	 of	skinfolds	 requires	 careful	site	selection	
and	strict	adherence	to	the	guidelines.
•	 In	comparison	 with	skinfold	 technique,	 measures	 of	circumference	 are	considered	
more	accurate	 and	feasible	for	use	in	obese	individuals	 in	which	conducting	 a	skin-
fold	test	is	often	difficult	 and	sometimes	 impossible.	 In	addition,	 measures	 of	waist	
circumference	 and	the	ratio	of	waist	to	hip	circumference	 can	help	distinguish	
between	patterns	of	fat	distribution	in	the	upper	and	lower	body.
Case study: calculating ideal body weight
Michael,	 a	45-year-	old	business	 man,	works	for	a	consulting	 firm	and	has	a	frequent	
travel	schedule.	 Lately,	he	has	been	experiencing	 a	steady	weight	gain.	He	is	5	feet	8	
inches	tall	and	weighs	200	pounds	and	his	body	mass	index	is	30.5,	which	is	considered	
borderline	 obesity.	He	decides	to	see	a	personal	 trainer	to	solve	his	weight	problem.	
His	first	meeting	 with	the	personal	 trainer	includes	 a	body	composition	 assessment	
using	bioelectrical	 impedance	 analysis.	 This	initial	assessment	 reveals	that	he	has	a	

370		 The body in health and performance
Review questions
	1	 Why	is	important	to	assess	the	body	composition	of	your	client	or	an	athlete?
	2	 Explain	 the	differences	 between	 essential	 and	storage	fat.	How	do	they	differ	
between	males	and	females?
	3	 Explain	the	differences	between	visceral	and	subcutaneous	fat.
	4	 Take	a	20-year-	old	college	male,	180	lb,	28	percent	fat.	What	is	his	target	body	weight	
to	achieve	17	percent	fat?
	5	 Define	 body	density.	How	is	this	parameter	 computed?	 How	is	body	density	related	
to	percentage	of	body	fat?
	6	 What	is	the	Siri	equation?	 Explain	the	assumptions	 that	were	used	in	developing	 the	
equation.
	7	 How	is	the	body	mass	index	(BMI)	calculated?	 What	are	the	advantages	 and	disad-
vantages	 of	using	BMI	in	assessing	 body	composition?	 Provide	two	scenarios	 where	
BMI	and	percentage	don’t	agree	each	other.
	8	 Explain	 how	BMI	and	waist	circumference	 may	be	used	to	identify	clients	at	risk	due	
to	obesity.	 Why	is	waist	circumference	 considered	 more	than	BMI	in	predicting	
health	risks?
	9	 Explain	 the	Archimedes’	 principle.	 How	is	this	principle	 used	in	hydrostatic	 weigh-
ing	that	measures	 one’s	body	composition?	 What	are	the	potential	 errors	that	can	
cause	this	technique	to	be	inaccurate?
10	 Describe	 Boyle’s	law.	How	is	this	law	applied	in	the	Bod	Pod	technique	 that	measures	
one’s	body	composition?
11	 To	obtain	accurate	 estimates	 of	body	composition	 using	the	BIA	method,	 your	client	
must	follow	the	pre-	 testing	guidelines.	Identify	these	client	guidelines.
12	 Describe	 the	three	gender-	specific	 skinfold	 sites	and	their	anatomical	 locations	
involved	 in	the	Jackson	and	Pollock	equations.	 What	were	the	assumptions	 made	for	
the	skinfold	technique	to	be	used	to	predict	one’s	percentage	of	body	fat?
13	 Identify	potential	sources	of	measurement	error	for	the	skinfold	method.
14	 How	 would	you	rate	the	skinfold,	 BIA,	and	hydrostatic	 weighing	 techniques	 in	terms	
of	their	suitability	for	very	lean,	very	obese,	and	older	individuals?
Suggested reading
	1	 Ellis	KJ	(2001)	Selected	 body	composition	 methods	 can	be	used	in	field	studies.	
Journal of Nutrition ,	131:	1589S–1595S.
 This article provides an overview of the current status of in	vivo body composition methodolo -
gies that have potential for use in field- based studies. The methods discussed in this paper are body	fat	of	28	percent.	 He	is	unhappy	 with	this	result	and	decides	to	do	something	 to	
lose	weight.	Via	discussion	 with	the	trainer,	he	sets	an	initial	goal	to	reduce	his	body	fat	
from	28	to	20	percent	while	maintaining	his	lean	body	mass.
Questions
•	 What	is	Michael’s	current	fat	mass	and	lean	body	mass?
•	 How	much	should	Michael	 weigh	in	order	to	reach	his	target	of	20	percent	body	
fat?	In	this	case,	how	much	fat	does	he	need	to	lose?
•	 Considering	 that	there	are	many	other	techniques	 available	 for	assessing	 body	com-
position,	 what	are	the	unique	advantages	 and	disadvantages	 associated	 with	the	bio-
electrical	impedance	analysis	that	was	used	by	Michael’s	trainer?

The body in health and performance 		371
divided into four general categories: anthropometric indices and skinfold, body volume measure -
ments, body water measurements including bioelectrical methods, and imaging techniques.
	2	 Wang	 J,	Thornton	 JC,	Kolesnik	 S,	Pierson	RN	Jr	(2000)	Anthropometry	 in	body	com-
position.	An	overview.	 Annals of the New York Academy of Science ,	904:	317–326.
 Anthropometry is a simple and reliable method for quantifying body size and proportions by 
measuring body length, width, circumference, and skinfold thickness. This article is an excellent 
resource for those interested in using anthropometric measurements to predict body composition.
Glossary
Air displacement plethysmography 	a	body	composition	 technique	 that	is	considered	 an	
alternative	 to	hydrostatic	 weighing	 and	uses	air	as	opposed	 to	water	to	determine	
body	volume	and	thus	body	fat	level.
Archimedes’ principle 	the	principle	 that	relates	buoyancy	 to	displacement	 and	states	
that	weight	loss	under	water	is	directly	proportional	 to	the	weight	of	water	displaced	
by	the	body.
Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) 	a	body	composition	 technique	 that	determines	
body	fat	levels	by	measuring	 impedance	 or	opposition	 to	the	flow	of	an	electric	
current.
Body composition 	the	ratio	of	fat	to	fat-	free	mass	and	frequently	 expressed	 as	a	per-
centage	of	body	fat.
Body density 	a	measurement	 that	expresses	 total	body	mass	or	weight	relative	to	body	
volume	or	the	amount	of	space	or	area	that	your	body	occupies.
Body mass index (BMI) 	also	known	as	the	Quetelet	 index	calculated	 by	dividing	 weight	
in	kilograms	by	the	square	of	height	in	meters.
Boyle’s law 	this	law	states	that	at	a	constant	 temperature	 for	a	fixed	mass,	the	product	
of	pressure	 and	volume	of	a	gas	is	a	constant	 and	pressure	 and	volume	are	inversely	
proportional.
Cellulite	dimpled,	 quilt-	like	skin	caused	by	fat	being	separated	 by	connective	 tissue	
into	small	compartments	that	extrude	into	the	dermis.
Circumference 	a	body	composition	 technique	 that	determines	 body	fat	levels	or	distri-
bution	based	on	the	circumference	 of	selected	 body	parts	such	as	arms,	legs,	
abdomen,	and	hips.
Densitometry 	the	quantitative	 measurement	 of	body	composition	 that	involves	 the	
determination	of	body	density.
Dual- energy X- ray absorptiometry (DEXA) 	a	body	composition	 technique	 that	uses	a	
series	of	cross-	sectional	 scans	from	head	to	toe	using	photon	beams	to	determine	
body	fat	levels.
Ectomorph 	relative	predominance	 of	linearity	 and	fragility	with	a	large	surface-	to-mass	
ratio	giving	sensory	exposure	to	the	environment.
Endomorph 	relative	predominance	of	soft	roundness	and	large	digestive	viscera.
Essential fat 	the	body	fat	stored	in	the	bone	marrow,	 heart,	lungs,	liver,	spleen,	
kidneys,	intestines,	muscles,	and	lipid-	 rich	tissues	of	the	central	nervous	system.
Hydrostatic weighing 	a	body	composition	 technique	 that	determines	 body	volume	by	
measuring	 the	volume	of	water	displaced	 by	the	body	based	on	the	Archimedes’	
principle	 that	weight	loss	under	water	is	directly	proportional	 to	the	weight	of	water	
displaced	by	the	body.
Mesomorph 	relative	predominance	 of	muscle,	bone,	and	connective	 tissue	ultimately	
derived	from	the	mesodermal	embroyonic	layer.
Obese	a	condition	where	the	BMI	of	an	individual	is	higher	than	30	 kg/m2.
Overweight 	a	condition	where	the	BMI	of	an	individual	is	higher	than	25	 kg/m2.

372		 The body in health and performance
Resistance exercise 	performance	 of	dynamic	 or	static	muscular	 contractions	 against	
external	resistance	of	varying	intensities.
Skinfold	a	body	composition	 technique	 that	determines	 body	fat	levels	based	upon	the	
thickness	of	a	double	fold	of	skin	and	the	immediate	layer	of	subcutaneous	fat.
Storage fat 	the	body	fat	stored	in	adipose	tissue	and	often	referred	 to	as	a	depot	for	
excess	fat.
Subcutaneous fat 	a	portion	of	the	storage	fat	found	just	beneath	the	skin’s	surface.
Visceral fat 	a	portion	of	storage	fat	that	protects	 the	various	organs	within	the	thoracic	
and	abdominal	cavities.

15 Energy balance and weight control
Contents
Key terms 373
How is body weight regulated? 374
•	 Set	point	 374
•	 Regulation	of	energy	balance	 374
Components	of	daily	energy	expenditure	 377
•	 Resting	metabolic	rate	 377
•	 Physical	activity	 379
•	 Thermal	effect	of	foods	 383
Etiology	of	obesity	 383
•	 Heredity	 384
•	 Environmental	factors	 385
•	 Interactions	of	heredity	and	environment	 386
Dietary	therapies	designed	to	reduce	energy	intake	 387
•	 Weight	loss	guidelines	and	approaches	 387
•	 Options	for	reducing	energy	intake	 392
Exercise	strategies	in	maximizing	energy	expenditure	 395
•	 Enhancing	energy	expenditure	through	physical	activity	 395
•	 Exercise	intensity	and	fat	utilization	 398
•	 Other	exercise	strategies	 399
•	 Limitations	of	exercise	alone	in	weight	management	 402
Summary	 403
Case	study	 405
Review	questions	 405
Suggested	reading	 406
Glossary	 407
Key terms
•	 Appetite	 •	 Basal	metabolic	rate
•	 Circuit	weight	training	 •	 Duration
•	 Excess	post-	 exercise	oxygen	consumption	 •	 Exercise
•	 Facultative	thermogenesis	 •	 Frequency

374  Energy balance and weight control
•	 Ghrelin	 •	 High-	intensity	interval	training
•	 Hypothalamus	 •	 Intensity
•	 Intermittent	exercise	 •	 Lactate	threshold
•	 Negative	energy	balance	 •	 Obligatory	thermogenesis
•	 Oxygen	deficit	 •	 Physical	activity
•	 Positive	energy	balance	 •	 Resting	metabolic	rate
•	 Set	point	 •	 Settling-	 point	theory
•	 Thermal	effect	of	food	 •	 Weight	cycling
How is body weight regulated?
In	most	people,	body	fat	and	weight	remain	remarkably	 constant	 over	long	periods	
despite	fluctuations	 in	food	intake	and	activity	level.	It	appears	that	when	energy	intake	
or	activity	level	changes,	 the	body	compensates	 to	prevent	a	significant	 change	in	body	
weight	and	fat.	This	is	mainly	because	 the	body	has	the	ability	to	balance	energy	intake	
and	expenditure	 at	a	particular	 level	or	set point .	For	example,	 the	body	takes	in	an	
average	of	about	2500	kcal	per	day,	or	nearly	one	million	kcal	per	year.	However,	 the	
average	 gain	of	0.7	kg	(or	1.5	lb)	of	fat	each	year	represents	 an	imbalance	 of	only	
5250	kcal	between	 energy	intake	and	expenditure	 (3500	kcal	is	equivalent	 to	0.45	kg,	or	
1	lb,	of	adipose	tissue).	This	translates	into	a	surplus	of	fewer	than	15	 kcal	per	day.
Set point
According	 to	the	set-	point	theory,	there	is	a	control	system	built	into	every	person	dictat-
ing	how	much	fat	he	or	she	should	carry	–	a	kind	of	thermostat	 for	body	fat.	The	set	
point	for	body	fatness	is	determined	 by	genetics.	 Some	individuals	 have	a	high	setting,	
others	have	a	low	one.	In	an	obese	individual,	 body	fat	is	set	to	remain	at	a	higher	level	
than	it	is	in	a	lean	individual.	 When	people	lose	weight,	regardless	 of	whether	 they	are	
lean	or	obese,	metabolic	 signals	are	generated	 to	decrease	 energy	output	and	increase	
energy	intake	in	order	to	return	their	weight	to	its	set	point.	According	 to	this	theory,	
body	fat	percentage	 and	body	weight	are	matters	of	internal	 controls	 that	are	set	differ-
ently	in	different	people.
	 The	set-	point	theory	has	been	well	evidenced	 in	both	animal	and	human	studies.	
When	animals	are	fed	or	starved	for	various	periods	of	time,	their	weights	respectively	
increase	 or	decrease	 markedly.	 But	when	they	go	back	to	their	normal	eating	patterns,	
they	always	return	to	their	original	 weight	or	to	the	weight	of	control	animals.	 Similar	
results	have	been	found	in	humans,	 although	 the	number	 of	studies	is	limited.	Subjects	
placed	on	semi-	starvation	 diets	have	lost	up	to	25	percent	 of	their	body	weight	but	
regained	 that	weight	within	months	of	returning	 to	a	normal	diet.	It	is	the	existence	 of	a	
set	point	that	makes	weight	loss	a	very	difficult	 task,	and	most	people	who	lose	weight	
eventually	regain	all	they	have	lost.
	 The	set	point	that	defends	body	weight	is	not	always	constant.	 Changes	 in	physiologi -
cal,	psychological,	 and	environmental	 circumstances	 do	cause	the	level	at	which	body	
weight	is	regulated	 to	change,	 usually	increasing	 over	time.	For	example,	 body	weight	
increases	 in	most	adults	between	 30	and	60	years	of	age,	and,	after	having	a	baby,	most	
women	return	to	a	weight	that	is	1	to	2	pounds	higher	than	their	pre-	 pregnancy	weight.
Regulation of energy balance
The	regulation	 of	human	energy	balance	is	complex,	 involving	 numerous	 feedback	 loops	
to	help	control	energy	balance.	 The	central	nervous	system,	the	brain	in	particular,	 is	the	

Energy balance and weight control 		375
center	for	appetite	control,	either	creating	a	sensation	 of	satiety	or	stimulating	 food-	seeking	
behavior. 	However, 	its	activity	is	dependent 	upon	a	complex	array	of	afferent	signals	from	
various	body	systems.	The	interaction	 of	the	brain	with	these	afferent	signals	helps	regulate	
the	appetite	 on	a	short-	term	(daily)	or	on	a	long-	term	basis	in	order	to	keep	the	body	
weight	constant.	 It	is	believed	 that	signals	related	to	food	intake	affect	hunger	or	satiety	
over	a	short	period	of	time,	whereas	 signals	from	the	adipose	tissue	trigger	the	brain	to	
adjust	both	food	intake	and	energy	expenditure	for	long-	 term	regulation.
Short- term regulation
The	short-	term	regulation	 of	energy	balance	 involves	 the	control	of	food	intake	from	
meal	to	meal.	We	eat	in	response	 to	hunger,	which	is	the	physiological	 drive	to	consume	
food.	We	stop	eating	when	we	experience	 satiety,	the	feeling	of	fullness	and	satisfaction	
that	follows	food	intake.	What,	when,	and	how	much	we	eat	are	also	affected	by	appetite,	
the	drive	to	eat	specific	foods	that	is	not	necessarily	 related	to	hunger.	 Signals	to	eat	or	
stop	eating	may	be	external,	 originating	 from	the	environment,	 or	they	may	be	internal,	
originating	 from	the	gastrointestinal	 tract,	circulating	 nutrients,	 or	high	centers	in	the	
brain.	The	 hypothalamus 	that	lies	in	between	 the	brain	and	brainstem	 contains	 neural	
centers	that	help	regulate	 appetite	and	hunger.	It	is	 believed	that	the	hypothalamus	con -
tains	a	hunger	center	that	stimulates	 eating	behaviors,	 and	a	satiety	center	that,	once	
stimulated,	 inhibits	the	hunger	center.	As	a	means	of	controlling	 energy	intake,	specific	
neural	receptors	 within	the	hypothalamus	 monitor	 various	afferent	 stimuli	that	may	
augment	or	inhibit	food	intake.
	 The	external	 signals	that	motivate	 eating	include	the	sight,	taste,	and	smell	of	food,	
the	time	of	day,	cultural	and	social	conventions,	 the	appeal	of	the	foods	available,	 and	
ethnic	and	religious	 rituals	(Friedman	 1995).	As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	7, 	sensory	input	
such	as	the	sight	of	a	meal	being	presented	 on	a	table	may	cause	your	mouth	to	become	
moist	and	your	stomach	 to	begin	to	secrete	digestive	 substances,	 and	such	a	response	
may	occur	even	when	the	body	is	not	in	need	of	food.	Some	people	eat	lunch	at	noon	
out	of	social	convention,	 not	because	 they	are	hungry.	We	eat	turkey	on	Thanksgiving	
because	 it	is	a	tradition,	 and	we	eat	cookies	and	cinnamon	 rolls	while	walking	through	
the	mall	because	the	smell	entices	us	to	buy	them.	Likewise,	 external	 factors	such	as	reli-
gious	dietary	restrictions	 or	negative	 experiences	 associated	 with	certain	foods	can	signal	
us	to	stop	eating.
	 Internal	 signals	that	promote	 hunger	and	satiety	are	triggered	 after	food	is	consumed	
and	absorbed,	 thereby	eliciting	 meal	consumption	 or	termination.	 The	simplest	 type	of	
signal	about	food	intake	comes	from	local	nerves	in	the	walls	of	the	stomach	 and	small	
intestine,	 which	sense	the	volume	or	pressure	 of	food	and	send	a	message	 to	the	brain	to	
either	start	or	stop	food	intake.	When	small	amounts	 of	food	are	consumed,	 the	feeling	
of	fullness	associated	 with	gastric	stretching	 is	barely	noticeable.	 As	the	volume	of	food	
increases,	 stretch	receptors	 are	stimulated,	 relaying	 this	information	 to	the	brain	to	
cause	the	sensation	of	satiety.
	 The	presence	 of	food	in	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	also	sends	information	 directly	to	
the	brain	and	triggers	the	release	of	gastric	hormones,	 the	majority	 of	which	promote	
satiety	(Woods	 et al.	1998).	Of	these	satiety-	promoting	 hormones,	 cholecystokinin	 or	
CCK	is	the	best	understood.	 As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	7, 	this	hormone	 is	released	 from	
the	intestinal	 cells,	particularly	 in	response	 to	dietary	fat	and	protein,	 signaling	 the	brain	
to	decrease	 food	intake.	The	hormone	 that	triggers	hunger	is	ghrelin	produced	 mainly	
by	the	stomach.	 Ghrelin	is	released	 in	response	 to	a	lack	of	food,	and	circulating	 concen-
trations	decrease	 after	food	is	consumed.	 There	is	evidence	 that	the	over-	production	 of	
ghrelin	may	contribute	to	obesity	(Inui	 et al.	2004).

376		 Energy balance and weight control
	 Absorbed	 nutrients	 may	also	send	information	 to	the	brain	to	modulate	 food	intake.	
Circulating	 levels	of	nutrients,	 including	 glucose,	 fatty	acids,	amino	acids,	and	ketone,	
are	monitored	 by	the	brain	and	may	trigger	signals	to	eat	or	not	to	eat.	The	pancreas	 is	
also	involved	 in	food	intake	regulation	 because	 it	releases	 insulin,	which	may	affect	
hunger	and	satiety	by	lowering	 the	levels	of	circulating	 nutrients.	 The	liver	may	also	be	
involved	 in	signaling	 hunger	and	satiety	by	monitoring	 changes	 in	fuel	metabolism.	
Changes	 in	liver	metabolism,	 in	particular	 the	amount	of	ATP,	are	believed	 to	modulate	
food	intake	(Friedman	1995).
Long- term regulation
In	addition	 to	short-	term	regulation	 of	food	intake,	the	body	also	regulates	 energy	intake	
on	a	long-	term	basis.	Short-	term	regulators	 of	energy	balance	affect	the	size	and	timing	
of	individual	 meals.	If	a	change	in	input	is	sustained	 over	a	long	period,	however,	 it	can	
affect	long-	term	energy	balance	and,	hence,	body	weight	and	fatness.	Long-	term	regula-
tory	signals	communicate	 the	body’s	energy	reserves	to	the	brain,	which	in	turn	releases	
neuropeptides	 that	influence	 energy	intake	and/or	energy	expenditure.	 If	this	long-	
term	system	functions	effectively,	body	weight	remains	relatively	stable	over	time.
	 The	mechanisms	 that	regulate	 long-	term	energy	balance	are	complex	 and	not	well	
understood.	 However,	 the	hormones	 leptin,	and	to	a	less	extent,	insulin,	 appear	
important	 (Figure	15.1).	Leptin	is	produced	 primarily	 by	adipose	tissue,	and	when	body	
fat	increases,	 circulating	 leptin	concentration	 increases	 as	well.	Likewise,	 when	body	fat	
decreases,	 leptin	production	 decreases.	 Leptin	travels	in	the	blood	to	the	hypothalamus	
where	it	binds	to	proteins	 called	leptin	receptors	 in	order	for	the	brain	to	release	cata-
bolic	neuropeptides.	 Catabolic	 neuropeptides	 help	the	body	resist	further	weight	gain	
by	decreasing	 energy	intake	and	increasing	 energy	expenditure.	 In	this	context,	 leptin	
acts	like	a	thermostat	to	prevent	body	fatness	from	changing	significantly.
Decreased
leptin
Increased energy
intak e and
decreased energy
expenditureDecreased energy
intak e and
increased energy
expenditure
If body f at decreases
If body f at increasesIncreased
leptin
Body f at at
set pointHypothalamus
Figure 15.1 	Operation	of	leptin	in	maintaining	body	fat	at	a	set-point	level

Energy balance and weight control   377
	 Along	 with	leptin,	the	hormone	 insulin	is	also	important	 in	communicating	 adiposity	
to	the	brain.	Insulin	is	secreted	 from	the	pancreas	 when	blood	glucose	levels	rise;	its	cir-
culating	 concentration	 is	proportional	 to	the	amount	of	body	fat.	Insulin	can	affect	food	
intake	and	body	weight	by	sending	 signals	to	the	brain	and	by	affecting	 the	amount	of	
leptin	produced	 and	secreted	 (Schwartz	 et al.	1999).	When	insulin	levels	are	high,	there	
will	be	a	reduced	 drive	for	food	as	well	as	increased	 energy	expenditure.	 As	you	may	
recall,	insulin	secretion	 increases	 after	a	meal.	Such	an	acute	rise	in	insulin	acts	as	an	
anabolic	 hormone,	 favoring	 energy	storage	in	peripheral	 tissues.	Unlike	insulin,	acute	
changes	in	leptin	are	not	easily	detected	after	meals.
	 Overall,	 leptin	and	insulin	are	part	of	a	more	long-	term	homeostatic	 system	that	helps	
prevent	large	shifts	in	body	weight.	Some	researchers	 believe	that	defects	in	the	leptin/
insulin	signaling	 system	may	lead	to	impaired	 body	weight	regulation	 in	some	people	
(Cancello	 et al.	2004).	In	fact,	many	obese	people	are	found	to	have	high	levels	of	both	
leptin	and	insulin,	suggesting	 that	these	individuals	 may	have	developed	 tissue	resistance	
to	respond	 to	these	hormones.	 There	is	more	to	learn	about	this	regulatory	 system.	It	
seems	clear	that	both	leptin	and	insulin	help	protect	the	body	during	times	of	food	scar-
city.	However,	 food	regulation	 involving	 these	two	hormones	 may	be	altered	or	impaired	
during	times	of	food	surplus.
Components of daily energy expenditure
A	healthy	weight	can	result	from	paying	more	attention	 to	the	important	 concept	of	energy	
balance.	 Think	of	energy	balance	as	an	equation:	 energy	input	=	energy	output.	While	
energy	input	refers	to	calories	from	food	intake,	energy	output	is	accomplished	 by	metabo-
lism,	digestion,	 absorption,	 transport	 of	nutrients,	 and	physical	activity.	When	energy	input	
is	greater	than	energy	output,	the	result	is	positive energy balance .	The	excess	calories	con-
sumed	are	stored,	which	results	in	weight	gain.	There	are	some	situations	 in	which	positive	
energy	balance	is	normal	and	healthy.	For	example,	 during	pregnancy,	 a	surplus	of	calo-
ries	supports	the	developing 	fetus.	Infants	and	children	require	a	positive	energy	balance	
for	growth	and	development.	 On	the	other	hand,	if	energy	input	is	less	than	energy	output,	
a negative energy balance 	is	said	to	occur.	A	negative	 energy	balance	is	necessary	 for	suc-
cessful	weight	loss.	It	is	important	 to	realize	that	during	negative	 energy	balance,	 weight	
loss	involves	 a	reduction	 in	both	lean	and	adipose	tissue,	not	just	fat.	Thus	far,	issues	
related	to	energy	intake	have	been	discussed	 in	previous	 chapters.	 This	section	focuses	on	
the	other	side	of	the	energy	balance	equation–energy	 output.	The	body	uses	energy	for	
three	general	purposes:	 resting	metabolism,	 physical	 activity,	and	digestion,	 absorption, 	
and	processing	of	ingested	nutrients.
Resting metabolic rate
Resting metabolic rate 	(RMR)	represents	 a	minimal	 rate	of	metabolism	 necessary	 to	
sustain	life.	It	is	the	energy	requirements	 of	a	variety	of	cellular	events	that	are	essential	
to	the	life	of	an	organism.	 RMR	is	typically	 measured	 three	to	four	hours	after	a	light	
meal	without	prior	physical	 activity.	Quantitatively,	 RMR	accounts	 for	about	60	to	75	
percent	of	total	daily	energy	expenditure.	 For	this	reason,	this	energy	component	 has	
attracted	 a	great	deal	of	attention	 and	has	often	been	treated	as	a	major	player	in	con-
tributing	 to	metabolic	 disorders	 associated	 with	energy	imbalance.	 In	many	exercise	
intervention	 studies,	RMR	has	been	used	as	a	major	dependent	 variable	 expected	 to	
increase	 due	to	the	exercise-	 induced	 increase	 in	lean	body	mass.	On	an	average	of	men	
and	women	combined,	 RMR	has	been	estimated	 to	be	about	1680	kcal∙day–1	for	men	and	
1340	kcal∙day–1	for	women.	RMR	can	simply	be	estimated	 by	using	the	factor	of	one	kcal	

378		 Energy balance and weight control
per	kilogram	 body	weight	per	hour.	For	example,	 for	a	male	weighing	 70	kg	(154	lb),	his	
daily	RMR	will	be	1680	kcal	(i.e.,	1	kcal	×	70	kg	×	24	h).	Such	factors	may	be	reduced	 from	
1	to	0.9	kcal	kg–1 hr–1	for	use	in	women	given	that	the	average	RMR	is	about	10	percent	
lower	in	women	than	in	men.	This	method	is	convenient,	 but	does	not	discriminate	 the	
age-	or	body	composition-	 related	differences.	 To	eliminate	 this	drawback,	 a	revised	equa-
tion	was	developed,	 which	allows	the	estimation	 of	RMR	from	fat-	free	mass	(FFM)	in	
kilograms	(McArdle	 et al.	2001).	The	equation	is	expressed	as	follows:
RMR	=	370	+	21.6	(FFM)
For	example,	 a	male	who	weighs	70	kg	at	20	percent	 body	fat	has	a	FFM	of	56	kg.	By	
using	the	equation,	 his	estimated	 daily	BMR	will	be	about	1580	kcal	(i.e.,	370	+	21.6	×	56 
=	370	+	1209.6	=	1579.6).	 This	equation	 was	developed	 based	on	studies	of	a	mixed	sample	
of	males	and	females	and	therefore	 should	apply	uniformly	 to	both	genders.	 The	major	
advantage	 with	this	equation	 is	that	it	takes	into	account	the	impact	of	body	composition	
upon	RMR	and	in	doing	so	results	can	be	more	accurate	 in	reflecting	 the	gender-	and	
age-	related	differences	 in	metabolism	 despite	the	use	of	a	single	equation.	 This	estima-
tion	approach,	 however,	 requires	 body	composition	 to	be	measured	 in	the	first	place,	
which	could	be	problematic	 for	those	who	don’t	have	access	to	the	body	composition	
equipment.
	 RMR	may	also	be	estimated	 using	the	gender-	specific	Harris–Benedict	 equations	 (also	
called	the	Harris–Benedict	 principle),	 which	provide	 an	estimate	 for	basal	energy	
expenditure	 based	on	a	subject’s	 weight,	height,	and	age.	(Table 	15.1). 	The	questions	
were	first	developed	 in	1918	(Harris	and	Benedict	 1918,	1919).	In	order	to	improve	 their	
accuracy	 they	were	revised	in	1984	(Roza	and	Shizgal	1984)	and	in	1990	(Mifflin	 et al.	
1990)	(Table 	15.1). 	Note	that	the	equations	 estimate	 basal metabolic rate 	(BMR)	rather	
than	resting	metabolic	 rate.	BMR	is	more	precisely	 defined	as	the	energy	expenditure	
measured	 immediately	 after	awakening	 in	the	morning.	 BMR	measurements	 are	typic-
ally	taken	in	a	darkened	 room	upon	waking	after	8	hours	of	sleep,	12	hours	of	fasting	to	
ensure	that	the	digestive	 system	is	inactive,	 and	with	the	subject	resting	in	a	reclined	
position.	 In	practice,	 RMR	and	BMR	differ	by	less	than	10	percent,	 so	the	terms	may	be	
used	interchangeably.
	 RMR	 may	be	affected	 by	body	weight	and	composition.	 As	shown	in	Table 	15.2, 	this	
energy	component	 may	also	be	influenced	 by	many	other	factors	such	as	age,	climate,	
and	hormones.	 As	compared	 to	adults,	infants	have	a	large	proportion	 of	metabolically	
active	tissue.	Hence,	their	mass-	specific	RMR	is	higher	than	that	of	adults.	However,	
RMR	declines	 through	 childhood,	 adolescence,	 and	adulthood	 as	full	growth	and	matu-
ration	are	achieved.	 Mass-	specific	RMR	will	show	a	continued	 decline	in	those	who	
become	 elderly	(i.e.,	who	reach	or	pass	the	age	of	65).	This	is	because	 aging	has	been	
Table 15.1 	Original	and	revised	Harris–Benedict	equations
The	original	Harris–Benedict	equations	published	in	1918	and	1919
Men BMR	=	66.5	+	(13.75	×	weight	in	kg)	 +	(5.003	×	height	in	cm)	 –	(6.755	×	age	in	years)
Women BMR	=	655.1	+	(9.563	×	weight	in	kg)	 +	(1.850	×	height	in	cm)	 –	(4.676	×	age	in	years)
The Harris–Benedict equations revised by Roza and Shizgal in 1984
Men BMR	=	88.362	+	(13.397	×	weight	in	kg)	 +	(4.799	×	height	in	cm)	 –	(5.677	×	age	in	years)
Women BMR	=	447.593	+	(9.247	×	weight	in	kg)	 +	(3.098	×	height	in	cm)	 –	(4.330	×	age	in	years)
The Harris–Benedict equations revised by Mifflin and St Jeor in 1990Men
BMR	=	(10	×	weight	in	kg)	 +	(6.25	×	height	in	cm)	 –	(5	×	age	in	years)	 +	5
Women BMR	=	(10	×	weight	in	kg)	 +	(6.25	×	height	in	cm)	 –	(5	×	age	in	years)	 –	161

Energy balance and weight control 		379
associated	 with	the	loss	of	lean	body	mass,	which	includes	 muscle	as	well	as	other	meta-
bolically	 active	organs.	Climate	 conditions,	 especially	 temperature	 changes,	 can	also	
raise	resting	energy	expenditure.	 For	example,	 exposure	 to	the	cold	may	stimulate	
muscle	shivering	 as	well	as	the	secretion	 of	several	thermogenic	 hormones	 such	as	epine-
phrine	and	thyroid	hormone.	 Exposure	 to	a	warm	environment	 will	also	provoke	 an	
increase	 in	energy	metabolism,	 although	 this	increase	 may	not	be	as	great	in	magnitude	
as	that	induced	 in	a	cold	environment.	 RMR	is	also	subject	to	the	change	in	hormonal	
concentration.	 The	two	major	hormones	 linked	to	RMR	are	epinephrine	 and	thyroid	
hormone.
Physical activity
Physical	 activity	is	a	powerful	 metabolic	 stressor.	 It	stimulates	 chemical	 processes	 in	
which	the	potential	 energy	stored	in	energy	substrates	 is	converted	 into	the	type	of	
energy	that	cells	can	utilize,	namely	ATP.	As	mentioned	 in	Chapter	 9,	in	an	aerobic	
event,	energy	utilization	 associated	 with	a	particular	 exercise	 may	be	quantified	 by	deter-
mining	the	amount	 of	oxygen	used,	with	oxygen	being	later	converted	 into	calories.	
Determination	 of	energy	cost	for	an	anaerobic	 event	is	much	more	complex	 and	may	be	
achieved	 via	measurement	 of	production	 of	muscular	 force	and	power,	utilization	 of	
energy	substrates	 (i.e.,	ATP,	PCr,	glucose),	 or	energy	utilization	 following	 the	comple-
tion	of	exercise.	 Knowing	 the	energy	cost	of	exercise	 is	important	 if	a	comparable	 nutri-
tional	requirement	 needs	to	be	provided	 or	if	the	efficiency	 of	the	body	during	
performance	of	exercise	is	to	be	calculated.
	 The	total	energy	cost	for	a	given	activity	should	be	assessed	both	during	and	following 	
exercise.	 This	is	especially	 the	case	when	exercise	 is	performed	 at	high	intensities	 that	
require	a	longer	recovery	 period.	During	exercise,	 there	is	an	increase	 in	VO2	to	support	
the	increased	 energy	needs	of	the	body.	However,	 the	body’s	ability	to	gauge	such	a	
demand	 for	oxygen	is	not	always	perfect.	At	the	onset	of	exercise,	 both	respiration	 and	cir-
culation	do	not	immediately	 supply	the	needed	quantity	of	oxygen	to	the	exercising	 muscle	
(Figure	15.2). 	Oxygen	supply	normally	 requires	several	minutes	to	reach	the	required	 level	
at	which	aerobic	processes	 are	fully	functional.	 The	difference	 in	oxygen	requirement	 and	
oxygen	supply	is	regarded	 as	oxygen deficit .	After	exercise	VO2	does	not	return	to	resting	Table 15.2 	Factors	that	affect	resting	metabolic	rate	(RMR)
Factors Effect
Body	size An	increase	in	body	size	increases	RMR
Body	composition An	increase	in	lean	body	mass	increases	RMR
Growth Mass-specific	RMR	declines	through	childhood,	adolescence,	and	
adulthood
Age Mass-specific	RMR	continues	to	decline	from	adulthood	into	elderly
Ambient	temperature Both	cold	and	warm	exposure	will	stimulate	RMR
Hormones Both	thyroid	hormone	and	epinephrine	will	stimulate	RMR
Aerobic	fitness A	high	level	of	aerobic	fitness	is	linked	to	an	increased	RMR
Resistance	training Resistance	training	increases	RMR	or	prevents	a	decline	in	RMR	as	
one	ages
Smoking Nicotine	increases	RMR
Caffeine Caffeine	stimulates	RMR
Sleeping RMR	decreases	during	period	of	sleeping
Nutritional	status Underfeeding	tends	to	reduce	RMR,	while	overfeeding	tends	to	
increase	RMR

380		 Energy balance and weight control
levels	immediately	 but	does	so	gradually.	 This	elevated	 oxygen	consumption	 following 	
exercise	 has	been	referred	 to	as	excess post- exercise oxygen consumption 	(EPOC). 	The	
current	theory	of	EPOC	reflects	two	factors:	(1)	the	level	of	anaerobic	 metabolism	 in	
previous	 exercise,	 and	(2)	the	exercise-	induced	adjustments	 in	respiratory,	 circulatory,	 hor-
monal,	and	thermal	function	that	still	exert	their	influences	during	recovery.
	 Understanding	 the	dynamics	 of	EPOC	enables	us	to	more	adequately	 quantify	 the	
energy	cost	of	an	activity,	especially	 when	the	activity	performed	 is	intense	and	brief,	
such	as	sprinting	 or	resistance	 exercise.	 Due	to	their	anaerobic	 nature,	these	strenuous	
and	short-	duration	 work	bouts	could	drastically	 disturb	the	body’s	homeostasis	 through-
out	exercise	 which	demands	 a	greater	level	of	oxygen	consumption	 during	recovery.	 As	
such,	these	types	of	exercise	 are	often	associated	 with	a	fairly	large	EPOC	that	may	con-
stitute	a	majority	 of	the	total	energy	associated	 with	exercise.	 The	phenomenon	 of	EPOC	
has	also	been	brought	 to	attention	 in	the	area	of	weight	management	 due	to	its	role	in	
facilitating	 energy	expenditure.	 Overweight	 or	obesity	is	the	result	of	a	positive	energy	
balance	and	EPOC	can	contribute	 to	the	opposite	 extreme	 when	exercise	 is	undertaken	
regularly.	 Nevertheless,	 it	has	been	suggested	 that	in	order	for	EPOC	to	be	effective,	 one	
would	have	to	exercise	 at	an	intensity	 exceeding	 70	percent	VO2max	for	more	than	an	
hour,	three	times	a	week	(Borsheim	 2003).	Apparently,	 this	volume	of	exercise	 is	often	
impractical	for	many	overweight	or	obese	individuals.
	 Walking	 and	running	 are	the	two	principle	 forms	of	human	locomotion.	 From	an	
energetic	 point	of	view,	walking	is	an	energy-	cheap	activity,	and	its	energy	cost	is	gener-
ally	no	more	than	three	times	the	resting	metabolic	 rate.	On	the	other	hand,	running	
can	be	very	demanding	 metabolically,	 as	it	engages	 more	muscles	 that	contract	 force-
fully.	On	an	average,	 the	energy	expenditure	 during	running	 can	reach	as	high	as	ten	
times	the	resting	metabolic	rate	( Table	15.3).
	 Cycling	 is	the	major	means	of	transportation	 in	many	countries	 of	the	world.	This	
form	of	exercise	 is	also	used	as	a	recreational	 and	competitive	 sport.	During	the	past	
decade	or	so,	off-	road	cycling	has	enjoyed	 an	exponential	 growth	in	popularity.	 In	the	
fitness	and	rehabilitation	 industry,	 cycling	is	often	performed	 on	a	stationary	 ergometer,	
which	allows	exercise	 intensity	 to	be	regulated.	 Stationary	 cycling	differs	from	outdoor	
cycling	in	that	it	provides	 a	broad	range	of	exercise	 intensities	 that	can	be	adjusted	 by	Steady-state
O2 uptake
Excess post-
exercise oxygen
consumption
(EPOC)O2 deficit
Resting O2 
Start
exerciseEnd
exerciseEnd
recoveryOxygen uptake
Figure 15.2 	Response	of	oxygen	uptake	during	steady-state	exercise	and	recovery

Energy balance and weight control 		381
manipulating	 either	pedal	speed	or	flywheel	 resistance.	 Cycling	uses	less	muscle	mass	as	
compared	 to	running,	 and	as	a	result	expends	 less	energy	(Table 	15.3). 	However,	 the	
non-	weight-bearing	 feature	of	this	activity	allows	cycling	to	be	more	tolerable	 for	and	
commonly	 chosen	by	those	who	are	extremely	 sedentary	 and/or	obese	or	those	who	
have	difficulty	performing	weight-	 bearing	activities.
	 Resistance	 exercise	 or	weight-	lifting	has	been	widely	used	in	various	sports	training	
programs	 as	well	as	in	health	and	fitness-	related	exercise	 interventions.	 Every	activity,	
including	 activities	 of	daily	living,	requires	 a	certain	percentage	 of	an	individual’s	
maximum	 strength	 and	endurance.	 Regular	 resistance	 exercise	 can	serve	as	a	potent	
stimulus	 to	the	musculoskeletal	 system	that	is	necessary	 to	bring	about	the	gain	in	muscle	
size	and	function.	 It	also	helps	in	enhancing	 bone	mass	and	the	strength	 of	connective	
tissue.	A	training	 routine	that	combines	 both	aerobic	and	resistance	 exercises	 has	been	
highly	recommended	 because	 the	resulting	 improvement	 in	cardiorespiratory	 and	mus-
cular	function	 can	allow	individuals	 to	not	only	reduce	their	risks	for	chronic	diseases	
related	to	physical	 inactivity,	 but	also	to	be	able	to	perform	 activities	 of	daily	living	com-
fortably	and	safely.
	 Less	information	 is	available	 concerning	 the	energy	cost	of	resistance	 exercise.	 This	
may	be	due	to	the	fact	that	this	type	of	exercise	 is	typically	 performed	 in	an	intermittent	
fashion	so	that	the	accumulated	 exercise	 time	is	relatively	 short.	Although	 exertion	 can	
be	quite	strenuous	 at	times	during	resistance	 exercise,	 these	moments	 of	strenuous	
phases	are	usually	not	sustained	 for	more	than	one	minute.	Table 	15.4 	provides	 results	
of	net	VO2	from	studies	that	have	examined	 the	energy	cost	of	resistance	 exercises	
(Halton	 et al.	1999,	Hunter	 et al.	1988,	1992,	Olds	and	Abernethy	 1993,	Willoughby	 1991,	
Wilmore	 et al.	1978).	It	appears	that	a	greater	energy	cost	is	produced	 during	a	circuit 
weight training 	routine	that	involves	multiple	 sets	of	low	intensity	 (i.e.,	40	percent	1-RM)	
and	high	repetitions	 (i.e.,	10	to	15	repetitions)	 on	each	muscle	group,	coupled	 with	a	
relatively	 shorter	rest	interval	between	 sets	(i.e.,	~15	seconds).	 Energy	cost	during	resist-
ance	exercise	 has	also	been	reported	 using	gross	VO2	for	which	the	resting	component	
is	not	subtracted	 from	the	total	value	(Burleson	 et al.	1998,	Phillips	and	Ziuraitis	 2003).	
With	this	approach,	 VO2	was	found	to	be	near	1	to	1.5	l	min–1,	a	range	that	is	generally	Table 15.3 	Energy	expenditure	during	various	physical	activities
Activity Energy expenditure (kcal·min–1)
Men Women
Sitting 1.7 1.3
Standing 1.8 1.4
Sleeping 1.2 0.9
Walking	(3.5	 mi	h–1,	5.6	km	h–1) 5.0 3.9
Running	(7.5	 mi	h–1,	12.0	km	h–1) 14.0 11.0
Running	(10.0	 mi	h–1,	16.0	km	h–1) 18.2 14.3
Cycling	(7.0  mi h–1,	11.2  km	h–1) 5.0 3.9
Cycling	(10.0  mi h–1,	16.0  km	h–1) 7.5 5.9
Weight-lifting 8.2 6.4
Swimming	(3.0  mi h–1,	4.8 km	h–1) 20.0 15.7
Basketball 8.6 6.8
Handball 11.0 8.6
Tennis 7.1 5.5
Wrestling 13.1 10.3
Source:	adapted	from	Wilmore	and	Costill	(2004).

382		 Energy balance and weight control
higher	compared	 to	those	in	Table 	15.4. 	When	the	total	oxygen	consumed	 is	accumu-
lated	over	an	entire	exercise	 session,	 it	ranges	from	30	to	45	l∙session–1	or	150	to	
225	kcal∙session–1.	This	level	of	oxygen	uptake	is	considered	 mild	given	that	the	gross	
caloric	expenditure	 is	capable	of	reaching	 400	to	500	kcal	during	a	typical	endurance	
exercise	of	moderate	intensity	that	lasts	for	~45	minutes.
	 Although 	it	may	not	accumulate 	as	much	energy	expended 	while	exercising, 	resistance	
exercise	can	disturb	the	body’s	homeostasis	 to	a	greater	extent	as	compared	 with	aerobic	
exercise.	 The	physiological	 strain	it	imposes	 may	persist	through	 a	sustained	 period	of	
recovery	 following	 exercise.	 As	such,	resistance	 exercise	 is	often	associated	 with	a	greater	
EPOC	than	aerobic	exercise.	 For	example,	 Burleson	 et al.	(1998)	found	a	greater	EPOC	fol-
lowing	circuit	weight	training	performed	at	60	percent	1-RM	as	compared	to	treadmill	exer -
cise	that	was	matched	 for	the	same	VO2	elicited	during	resistance	 exercise.	 The	greater	
EPOC	is	attributable 	to	the	fact	that	a	majority	of	the	energy	that	supports	the	activity	is	
derived	from	the	use	of	anaerobic	 energy	sources	such	as	ATP	and	CP,	which	requires	
oxygen	for	them	to	be	replenished	 following	 exercise.	 It	may	also	be	due	to	a	greater	
change	in	HR	as	well	as	concentration	 of	blood	lactate	and	selected	 hormones	 imposed	
during	exercise	that	will	cause	a	sustained	 elevation	 in	oxygen	consumption	 following	 exer-
cise.	Many	studies	have	examined	 the	effect	of	resistance	 exercise	on	EPOC	(Binzen	 et al.	
2001,	Kang	 et al.	2005b,	Thornton	 et al.	2002,	Melby	 et al.	1993,	Melanson	 et al.	2002,	Olds	
and	Abernethy	 1993,	Schuenke	 et al.	2002).	It	is	generally	 agreed	that	although	 the	lifting	
mode	and	intensity	 (i.e.,	%	1-RM)	can	be	influential,	 it	is	the	volume	of	resistance	 training,	
which	represents	 the	total	quantity	of	weights	lifted,	that	serves	as	the	most	important	 factor	
to	determine 	the	magnitude 	of	EPOC.	Using	the	respiratory 	exchange 	ratio,	several	studies	
also	revealed	a	greater	fat	utilization 	in	addition	to	the	greater	EPOC	following 	resistance	
exercise	(Binzen	 et al.	2001,	Melby	 et al.	1993).
Table 15.4 	Comparisons	of	studies	that	have	examined	energy	cost	of	resistance	exercise
Studies Subjects Volume/intensity VO2 
(l min–1)*
Willoughby	 et al.	(1991) 10	men Squat	at	50%	1-RM,	7	reps
Squat	at	70%	1-RM,	6	reps
Squat	at	90%	1-RM,	5	reps0.18
0.190.24
Halton	 et al.	(1999) 	7	men 1	circuit	of	8	exercises	at	75%	20-RM,	20	reps 0.29
Olds	and	Abernethy	(1993) 	7	men 2	circuits	of	7	exercises	at	60%,	15	rep
2	circuits	of	7	exercises	at	75%,	12	rep0.780.78
Hunter	 et al.	(1988) 10	men
	7	women4	sets	of	bench	press	at	20%	1-RM,	30	reps
4	sets	of	bench	press	at	40%	1-RM,	20	reps
4	sets	of	bench	press	at	60%	1-RM,	10	reps
4	sets	of	bench	press	at	80%	1-RM,	5	reps0.140.230.300.51
Wilmore	 et al.	(1978) 20	men
20	women3	circuits	of	10	exercises	at	40%	1-RM,	  
	15–18	reps1.00
Hunter	 et al.	(1992) 14	men
	8	women4	sets	of	knee	extension	at	60%	1-RM,	10	reps
4	sets	of	knee	extension	at	80%	1-RM,	5	reps
4	sets	of	knee	flexion	at	60%	1-RM,	10	rep
4	sets	of	knee	flexion	at	80%	1-RM,	5	reps0.460.480.580.60
Notes
*		Values	are	the	net	VO2	averaged	 over	exercise	 and	recovery	 periods.	 Net	VO2	is	computed	 as	exercise	
VO2	+	recovery	VO2	–	resting	VO2	accumulated	for	the	total	period	of	exercise	and	recovery.

Energy balance and weight control 		383
Thermal effect of foods
Diet	induced	 thermogenesis	 or	the	thermal effect of foods 	(TEF	)	represents	 another	
important	 component	 of	total	daily	energy	expenditure.	 This	energy	fraction	is	defined	
as	the	significant	 elevation	 of	the	metabolic	 rate	that	occurs	after	ingestion	 of	a	meal.	
Typically,	 this	elevation	 reaches	its	peak	within	an	hour	and	can	last	for	four	hours	in	
duration	after	a	meal.	TEF	is	proportional	to	the	amount	of	energy	being	consumed	and	
is	estimated	 at	about	10	percent	of	energy	intake.	For	example,	 an	individual	 consuming	
2000	kcal	probably	expends	about	200	 kcal	on	TEF.
	 TEF	may	be	divided	into	two	subcomponents:	 obligatory thermogenesis 	and	 faculta -
tive thermogenesis .	The	obligatory	 component	 of	TEF	is	the	energy	cost	associated	 with	
digestion,	 absorption,	 transport,	 and	assimilation	 of	nutrients	 as	well	as	the	synthesis	 of	
protein,	 fat,	and	carbohydrate	 to	be	stored	in	the	body.	The	facultative	 thermogenesis	 is	
thought	 to	be	mediated	 by	the	activation	 of	the	sympathetic	 nervous	system,	which	func-
tions	to	stimulate	 metabolic	 rate.	This	classification	 in	essence	 provides	 underlying	
mechanisms	that	explain	the	increment	in	thermogenesis	following	a	meal.
	 TEF	can	be	different	 depending	 on	whether	 protein,	 carbohydrate,	 or	fat	is	being	
consumed.	 It	is	widely	accepted	 that	the	TEF	produced	 by	protein	is	about	20	to	30	
percent	of	the	energy	intake,	whereas	 TEF	for	carbohydrate	 and	fat	approximates	 5	to	
10	and	0	to	5	percent,	 respectively.	 This	relationship	 may	be	attributed	 to	the	differences	
in	chemical	 structure	 of	these	nutrients,	 which	dictate	the	amount	 of	energy	that	is	
necessary	 for	them	to	be	digested,	 absorbed,	 assimilated,	 and	stored.	Consumption	 of	
protein	is	considered	 most	thermogenic	 partly	because	 protein	contains	 nitrogen	 that	
needs	to	be	removed,	 which	is	energy	costly.	In	addition,	 most	amino	acids	are	absorbed	
by	an	energy-	requiring	 process.	 Absorbed	 amino	acids	may	also	be	used	for	protein	syn-
thesis.	In	this	process,	energy	is	mainly	used	for	synthesizing	peptide	bonds.
	 The	relatively	 large	calorigenic	 effect	of	ingested	 protein	has	been	used	as	evidence	
to	promote	 a	high-	protein	diet	for	weight	loss.	This	is	based	on	the	belief	that	as	a	
greater	amount	 of	energy	is	needed	during	the	process	in	which	protein	is	digested,	
absorbed,	 and	assimilated,	 fewer	calories	will	become	available	 to	the	body	for	storage	as	
compared	 to	a	meal	consisting	 mainly	of	carbohydrate	 and	fat.	However,	 this	notion	
needs	to	be	viewed	with	caution	in	that	it	has	been	claimed	 that	a	high-	protein	intake	
can	lead	to	hypoglycemia	 and	protein	degradation	 as	well	as	harmful	 strain	on	the	
kidneys	and	liver	in	the	long	run.
Etiology of obesity
Obesity	 is	defined	 as	an	excess	accumulation	 of	body	fat	(i.e.,	body	mass	index	
≥	30	kg	m2).	It	refers	to	the	overfat	condition	 that	is	associated	 with	a	number	 of	comor-
bidities	including:	 glucose	 intolerance,	 insulin	resistance,	 dyslipidemia,	 non-	insulin-
dependent	 (or	type	2)	diabetes,	 hypertension,	 and	increased	 risk	of	coronary	 heart	
disease	and	cancer.	Obesity	may	be	simply	attributed	 to	energy	imbalance	 in	which	
energy	intake	chronically	 exceeds	 energy	expenditure.	 Disruption	 in	energy	balance	
often	begins	in	childhood,	 and	those	who	are	overweight	 in	their	childhood	 will	have	a	
significantly	 greater	chance	of	becoming	 obese	adults	as	well.	Childhood	 obesity	has	
been	in	part	ascribed	 to	parental	 obesity.	For	example,	 if	parental	 obesity	also	exists,	the	
child’s	risk	of	obesity	in	adulthood	 is	two	to	three	times	that	of	normal-	weight	children	
without	obese	parents.	The	ages	of	25	to	45	years	represent	another	dangerous	period	in	
which	there	is	a	progressive	 weight	gain	over	time	(Crawford	 et al.	2000).	There	are	
reports	indicating	 that	despite	a	progressive	 decrease	 in	food	consumption,	 a	35-year-	old	
male	will	gain	an	average	of	0.5	 kg	(or	1	lb)	of	fat	each	year	until	the	sixth	decade	of	life.

384		 Energy balance and weight control
	 In	simple	terms,	obesity	is	caused	by	a	positive	energy	balance,	 which	is	when	energy	
intake	is	greater	than	energy	output.	Although	 a	positive	energy	balance	provides	 the	
basic	answer	to	how	we	get	fat,	it	does	not	provide	any	insight	relative	to	the	specific	
mechanisms.	 It	remains	 unclear	as	to	whether	 obesity	results	from	alterations	 in	lifestyle	
or	reflects	a	normal	biological	 pattern.	 Claude	Bouchard,	 a	prominent	 international	
authority	 on	obesity	and	weight	control,	noted	that	currently	 there	is	no	common	 agree-
ment	on	the	specific	determinants	 of	obesity,	emphasizing	 that	numerous	 factors	are	
correlated	 with	body	fat	content.	 In	general,	 most	leading	scientists	 support	 a	multi-	
causal	theory	involving	 the	interaction	 of	a	number	 of	genetic	and	environmental	
factors.
Heredity
Experimental	 studies	on	animals	 have	linked	obesity	to	hereditary	 (genetic)	 factors.	
Research	 on	humans	 has	also	shown	a	direct	genetic	influence	 on	height,	weight,	and	
BMI.	Most	human	studies	used	monozygotic	 (identical,	 developed	 from	one	embryo)	
and	dizygotic	 (non-	identical,	 developed	 from	two	separate	 embryos)	 twins	to	examine	
environmental	 and	genetic	influences	 on	the	development	 of	obesity.	Perhaps	 a	study	
from	Laval	University	 in	Quebec	provided	 the	strongest	 evidence	 of	a	significant	 genetic	
component	 of	obesity	(Bouchard	 et al.	1990).	The	investigators	 took	12	pairs	of	young	
adult	male	monozygotic	 (identical)	 twins	and	housed	them	in	a	closed	section	of	a	dor-
mitory	under	24-hour	 observation	 for	120	consecutive	 days.	The	subjects’	 diets	were	
monitored	 during	the	initial	14	days	to	determine	 their	baseline	 caloric	intake.	Over	the	
next	100	days,	the	subjects	 were	fed	1000	kcal	above	their	baseline	 consumption	 for	6	
out	of	every	7	days.	On	the	seventh	day,	the	subjects	 were	fed	only	their	baseline	 diet.	
Thus,	they	were	overfed	in	84	out	of	100	days.	Activity	levels	were	also	tightly	controlled.	
At	the	end	of	the	study	period,	the	actual	weight	gained	varied	widely	from	4.3	to	13.3	kg	
(9.5	to	29.3	lb)	despite	an	overconsumption	 of	the	same	calories.	 However,	 the	response	
of	both	twins	in	any	given	twin	pairs	was	quite	similar.	Similar	results	were	found	for	
gains	in	fat	mass,	percentage	of	body	fat,	and	subcutaneous	fat.
	 Research	 into	the	genetics	 of	obesity	has	been	progressing	 at	a	rapid	pace.	To	date,	
several	obesity	genes	have	been	identified,	 which	may	explain	why	some	individuals	
maintain	 an	unhealthy	 set	point.	It	is	generally	 considered	 that	individuals	 with	a	genetic	
susceptibility	 to	obesity	may	be	predisposed	 to	abnormalities	 in	neural	function.	 These	
individuals	 establish	 neural	circuits	that	are	not	easily	abolished.	 In	essence,	 obesity	
genes	influence	 appetite	 to	increase	 energy	intake	or	affect	metabolism	 to	decrease	
energy	expenditure.	 For	example,	 genes	in	the	hypothalamus	 may	decrease	 the	number	
of	protein	receptors	for	leptin,	thus	preventing	leptin	from	inhibiting	the	appetite.
	 Many	 studies	have	also	pointed	 out	a	potential	 role	which	uncoupling	 proteins	
(UCPs)	play	in	the	etiology	of	obesity.	As	noted	in	Chapter 	8, 	UCPs	function	 to	activate	
thermogenesis.	 Several	forms	of	UCPs	have	been	identified,	 i.e.,	UCP1	in	brown	fat	
tissue,	UCP2	in	white	fat	and	muscle	tissue,	and	UPC3	in	muscle	tissue	(Lowell	 and	
Spiegelman	 2000).	It	has	been	evidenced	 that	these	uncoupling	 proteins	 were	under-	
expressed	 in	tissues	of	obese	individuals,	 and	the	lower	the	UPCs,	the	lower	the	resting	
metabolic	 rate.	To	date,	more	than	300	genes	are	considered	 to	be	involved	 in	weight	
loss	and	weight	maintenance.	 Genetic	factors	that	have	been	implicated	 in	the	develop-
ment	of	obesity	include:	 (1)	a	predisposition	 to	sweet	and	high-	fat	foods;	(2)	an	inability	
to	control	appetite;	 (3)	impaired	 functions	 of	hormones	 such	as	insulin	and	leptin;	
(4)	reduced	 levels	of	human	growth	hormones;	 (5)	decreased	 resting	energy	expendi-
ture;	(6)	reduced	 rates	of	fat	oxidation,	 and	(7)	an	enhanced	 efficiency	 in	storing	fat	
and	conserving	energy.

Energy balance and weight control 		385
Environmental factors
Heredity	 may	predispose	 one	to	obesity.	However,	 environmental	 factors	are	also	highly	
involved.	 Some	would	argue	that	body	weight	similarities	 among	family	members	 stem	
more	from	learned	 behaviors	 rather	than	genetic	similarities.	 Even	married	 couples,	
who	have	no	genetic	link,	may	behave	similarly	 toward	food	and	eventually	 assume	
similar	degrees	of	leanness	 or	fatness.	Proponents	 of	nurture	pose	that	environmental	
factors,	such	as	a	high-	calorie	or	fat	diet	and	inactivity,	 literally	shape	us.	This	notion	
seems	likely	when	considering	 that	our	gene	pool	has	not	changed	 much	in	the	past	50	
years,	whereas	according	 to	the	US	Centers	for	Disease	Control	the	prevalence	 of	obesity	
has	grown	in	epidemic	proportions	over	the	past	two	decades.
Factors related to energy consumption
Although	 excess	calories,	 or	overfeeding,	 may	lead	to	weight	gain	and	obesity,	research-
ers	suggest	that	the	main	“culprit”	 in	the	diet	that	leads	to	obesity	is	dietary	fat.	
Researchers	 have	postulated	 several	reasons	for	why	dietary	fat	plays	a	major	role	in	
causing	 weight	gain	and	obesity.	 Dietary	fat	is	highly	palatable	 to	most	individuals, 	
encouraging	 overconsumption.	 Dietary	fat	contains	 more	calories	per	gram,	and	may	
not	provide	 the	same	satiety	as	carbohydrate	 and	protein.	 It	has	been	demonstrated 	
that	high-	fat	foods	give	rise	to	higher	energy	intake	during	a	meal	than	do	carbohy-
drate	and	protein,	 and	calories	for	calories	are	less	effective	 in	suppressing	 subsequent 	
food	intake	(Green	and	Blundell	 1996).	Spontaneous	 energy	intake	is	also	higher	on	
an	unrestricted	 high-	fat	diet	compared	 to	a	high-	carbohydrate	 diet	(Shah	and	Garg	
1996).	Dietary	fat	may	be	stored	as	fat	more	efficiently	 compared	 to	carbohydrate	 and	
protein.	 It	takes	some	energy	to	synthesize	 fat	and	store	it	in	adipose	tissue,	but	in	com-
parison	to	dietary	fat,	it	may	cost	up	to	three	to	four	times	more	energy	to	convert	car-
bohydrate 	or	protein	into	body	fat.	In	addition, 	it	has	been	found	that	chronic	intake	
of	a	high-	fat	diet	will	produce	 resistance	 in	the	hypothalamus	 to	various	factors	that	
normally	 suppress	 appetite,	 such	as	leptin,	resulting	 an	increased	 energy	intake	and	
body	fat	deposition	(Tso	and	Liu	2004).
	 From	 an	energy	balance	perspective,	 obesity	may	also	be	attributed	 to	an	increased 	
daily	caloric	intake	regardless	 of	its	composition.	 Our	society	promotes	 increased	 food	
intake.	Supermarkets, 	fast-	food	restaurants, 	and	all-	night	convenience 	stores	provide	
ready	access	to	food	throughout	 the	day	and	night.	Appetizing	 low-	fat	but	high-	calorie	
food	is	everywhere,	 and	in	supersize	 proportions	 which	significantly	 increase	 caloric	
content.	 Bigger	is	marketed	 as	better	in	terms	of	portion	size.	People	buy	large	sizes	
and	combinations,	 perceiving	 them	to	be	good	value,	but	then	they	eat	more	than	
what	they	need.	What	was	once	small	is	now	large.	For	example,	 the	average	soft	drink	
is	over	50	percent	 larger	compared	 to	what	it	was	before	and	some	of	which	may	
contain	 over	500	calories.	 The	trend	toward	large	portion	 sizes	parallels	 the	preval-
ence	of	overweight 	and	obesity,	beginning 	in	the	1970s,	increasing 	sharply	in	the	
1980s,	and	continuing	today.
	 With	excess	dietary	calories,	 it	is	possible	for	an	individual	 to	become	obese	even	on	a	
low-	fat	diet	because	the	body	rapidly	adjusts	to	oxidizing	 excess	dietary	carbohydrate	 and	
protein	to	meet	its	energy	needs,	sparing	the	use	of	body	fat	stores.	In	addition,	 some	of	
the	excess	dietary	carbohydrate	 may	also	be	used	to	generate	 body	fat.	Recent	research	
by	Ma	et al.	(2005)	indicates	 that	a	high	glycemic	 index	diet	is	associated	 with	increased	
body	weight.	This	evidence	 suggests	 that	weight	gain	may	occur	without	 a	necessary	
increase	in	fat	consumption.

386		 Energy balance and weight control
Factors related to energy expenditure
As	mentioned	 earlier,	the	total	energy	expenditure	 may	be	partitioned	 into	energy	
expended	 via	(1)	resting	metabolic	 rate,	(2)	thermal	 effect	of	food,	and	(3)	physical	
activities.	 Of	these	three	energy	components,	 both	the	resting	metabolic	 rate	and	energy	
cost	due	to	physical	activity	appear	to	receive	the	most	attention	 in	terms	of	studying	 the	
etiology	 of	obesity.	This	may	be	because	 thermogenesis	 associated	 with	food	consump -
tion	constitutes	 a	very	small	portion	 of	the	daily	energy	expenditure.	Resting	metabolism	
is	the	energy	required	 by	the	body	in	a	resting	state.	It	may	be	influenced	 by	age,	gender,	
drugs,	climate,	body	weight,	and	body	composition,	 and	accounts	 for	a	majority	 of	daily	
energy	expenditure.	 There	is	a	gradual	decline	in	resting	metabolism	 as	one	ages.	In	
addition,	 those	with	greater	lean	body	mass	will	have	greater	resting	metabolism.	
However,	 as	related	to	obesity,	several	studies	have	failed	to	prove	that	this	energy	com-
ponent	is	responsible	 for	obesity.	For	example,	 Seidell	 et al.	(1992)	and	Weinsier	 et al.	
(1995)	reported	 that	a	gain	in	body	weight	occurred	 independent	 of	changes	 in	resting	
metabolism	over	ten	and	four	years,	 respectively.	 In	fact,	obese	individuals	 were	found	to	
have	an	expended	lean	body	mass	and	thus	greater	resting	metabolic	rate	(Bray	1983).
	 Obesity	 may	also	be	explained	 by	concomitantly	 decreasing	 levels	of	physical	 activity.	
Energy	output	associated	 with	physical	 activity	can	vary	tremendously.	 As	such,	this	
energy	component	 has	been	the	center	of	a	majority	 of	research	 dealing	with	obesity	
and	its	prevention	 and	treatment.	 Despite	some	controversy,	 there	has	been	a	popular	
belief	that	a	reduced	 level	of	physical	activity	leads	to	the	development	 of	obesity	(Astrup	
et al.	2002).	Modern	 technology	 is	helping	 to	make	our	lives	more	comfortable	 and	
enjoyable	 in	numerous	 ways.	However,	 technology	 may	also	exert	a	negative	 effect	on	
our	health	as	the	development	 of	television,	 computers,	 and	other	labor-	saving	devices	
may	decrease	 levels	of	physical	 activity.	Indeed,	 both	longitudinal	 and	cross-	sectional	
studies	have	reported	 an	inverse	relationship	 between	 physical	 activity	and	body	weight;	
that	is,	those	who	were	physically	 inactive	weighed	 more.	Once	an	individual	 becomes	
obese,	physical	activity	decreases,	 setting	up	a	vicious	cycle	of	increasing	 body	weight	and	
then	less	physical	activity.
	 It	should	be	noted,	however,	 that	those	who	are	obese	tend	to	expend	relatively	 more	
energy	for	any	given	movement	 (Bray	1983).	Consequently,	 despite	reduced	 physical	
activity,	the	resulting	 energy	expenditure	 may	not	necessarily	 be	less	in	obese	as	com-
pared	with	lean	individuals.	 This	raises	a	question	 as	to	whether	 or	to	what	extent	a	
decrease	 in	physical	activity	actually	contributes	 to	the	occurrence	 of	obesity.	It	has	been	
recently	 suggested	 that	the	impact	of	energy	expenditure	 upon	the	cause	of	obesity	can	
vary	from	individual	 to	individual	 and	can	also	have	different	 effects	within	individuals	 at	
different	 stages	of	development.	 Perhaps	 future	studies	aimed	at	the	etiology	 of	obesity	
should	be	devoted	 to	examining	 the	impact	of	energy	balance	over	time	using	relatively	
homogeneous	groups	in	terms	of	age,	gender,	fitness,	and	severity	of	obesity.
Interactions of heredity and environment
It	is	unlikely	 that	the	increasing	 incidence	 of	obesity	in	the	US	is	due	to	genetics	 only	
because	 it	takes	many	generations	 to	change	the	genes	present	in	a	population.	 There-
fore,	non-	genetic	factors	such	as	increased	 energy	intake	and	decreased	 physical	 activity	
are	thought	 to	be	major	contributors	 to	our	increasing	 body	weight.	When	genetically	
susceptible	 individuals	 find	themselves	 in	an	environment	 where	food	is	appealing	 and	
plentiful	 and	physical	activity	is	easily	avoided,	 obesity	is	a	likely	outcome.	 An	example	 of	
human	obesity	that	is	due	to	the	interaction	 of	a	genetic	predisposition	 and	an	environ-
ment	that	is	conducive	 to	obesity	is	the	Pima	Indian	tribe	living	in	Arizona.	 More	than	

Energy balance and weight control 		387
75	percent	 of	this	population	 is	obese.	Several	genes	have	been	identified	 and	con-
sidered	responsible	 for	this	group’s	tendency	 to	store	more	fat	(Norman	 et al.	1997).	
Typically,	 Pimas	have	low	energy	requirements	 per	unit	of	fat-	free	mass,	which,	coupled	
with	a	low	level	of	physical	 activity	and	a	high	intake	of	energy-	dense	diet,	has	caused	
body	fat	to	be	maintained	 at	a	high	level.	A	group	of	Pima	Indians	living	in	Mexico	are	
genetically	 the	same	as	those	in	the	US,	but	they	are	farmers	who	consume	 the	food	they	
grow	and	have	a	high	level	of	physical	activity	(Esparza	 et al.	2000).	They	still	have	higher	
rates	of	obesity	than	would	be	predicted	 from	their	diet	and	exercise	 patterns,	 suggest-
ing	genes	that	favor	high	body	weight.	However,	 they	are	significantly	 less	obese	than	the	
Arizona	Pima	Indians.
	 The	interaction	 of	heredity	 and	environment	 may	also	explain	why	some	people	
attain	and	maintain	 body	weights	higher	than	their	set	point.	It	is	now	believed	 that	an	
individual’s	 set	point	is	adjustable,	 possibly	 shifting	with	changes	 in	the	hypothalamus.	
Some	scientists	 have	proposed	 a	new	theory,	the	settling-	point	theory.	The	 settling- point 
theory	suggests	 that	the	set	point	may	be	modified,	 and	in	the	case	of	weight	gain,	set	at	
a	higher	level.	In	other	words,	whatever	 genes	we	have	that	make	us	susceptible	 to	
obesity	may	settle	into	a	happy	equilibrium	 with	our	environment.	 For	example,	 a	chron-
ically	high-	fat	diet	may	modify	our	genes,	possibly	increasing	 leptin	resistance,	 and	body	
weight	rises	to	a	new	level.	On	the	other	hand,	a	weight	loss	diet	may	lower	the	set	point	
to	help	maintain	 body	weight	at	a	lower	level.	Weinsier	 et al.	(2000)	found	that	caloric	
restriction	 in	obese	women	induced	 a	transient	 decrease	 in	resting	energy	expenditure,	
which	would	be	counterproductive	 to	weight	loss.	However,	 metabolism	 returned	 to	
normal	on	completion	 of	a	weight	loss	program	 when	energy	intake	was	then	adequate	
to	maintain	 the	reduced	 body	weight,	suggesting	 that	the	set	point	may	settle	to	a	lower	
level	over	time.	Clearly,	genetics	 and	environment	 interact	to	influence	 body	weight	and	
composition.
Dietary therapies designed to reduce energy intake
Although	 the	weight	loss	industry	 would	like	us	to	think	otherwise,	 the	truth	is	clear:	
there	is	no	quick	and	easy	way	to	lose	weight.	Treatment	 of	overweight	 and	obesity	
should	be	long	term,	similar	to	that	for	any	chronic	disease.	It	requires	 a	firm	commit-
ment	to	lifestyle	changes,	 rather	than	a	quick	fix	as	promoted	 by	many	popular	 diet	
books.	We	often	view	a	diet	as	something	 one	goes	on	temporarily,	 only	to	resume	prior	
(typically	 poor)	habits	once	satisfactory	 results	have	been	achieved.	 This	is	why	so	many	
people	regain	lost	weight.	Instead,	 an	emphasis	 on	healthy,	 active	living	with	acceptable	
dietary	modifications	will	promote	weight	loss	and	later	weight	maintenance.
Weight loss guidelines and approaches
Although	 there	are	many	reasons	why	people	want	to	lose	weight,	the	most	important	 one	
is	to	improve	 health.	Rather	than	focusing	 on	weight	loss,	which	is	unlikely	to	be	successful 	
in	the	long	term,	a	weight	problem	 should	be	viewed	in	terms	of	weight	management.	 One	
goal	of	weight	management	 is	to	prevent	excess	body	weight	gain.	Healthy	eating	habits	
and	active	lives	that	promote	 the	maintenance	 of	a	healthy	weight	should	be	developed	 in	
childhood	 and	maintained	 throughout	 life.	Just	as	dietary	and	lifestyle	changes	 which	
people	adopt	in	response	 to	a	family	history	of	heart	disease	or	an	increase	in	blood	choles-
terol,	similar	actions	should	be	taken	as	well	to	maintain	 a	healthy	weight	if	someone	 is	
exposed	to	a	family	history	of	obesity	or	an	increase	in	body	weight.	For	those	who	are	
already	overweight,	 the	goal	of	weight	management	 is	to	reduce	body	weight	and	body	fat	
to	a	healthy	level	that	can	be	maintained	over	a	lifetime.

388		 Energy balance and weight control
	 Achieving	 and	maintaining	 weight	loss	requires	 making	 lasting	lifestyle	 changes,	
including	 what	we	choose	to	eat	and	how	much	physical	 activity	we	engage	in.	Most	
health	experts	suggest	that	people	focus	less	on	weight	loss	and	more	on	eating	healthily	
and	on	overall	fitness.	Misguided	 efforts	of	weight	loss	at	any	cost	unfortunately	 present	
food	as	the	enemy,	rather	than	as	means	to	good	health.	Most	people	who	successfully	
lose	weight	and	keep	it	off	do	so	by	eating	a	balanced	 diet	of	nutrient-	 dense	foods	and	
by	maintaining	 a	moderately	 high	level	of	physical	 activity	(Wing	and	Phelan	2005).	
A	healthy	weight	loss	and	weight	maintenance	 program	 consists	of	four	components:	
(1)	setting	reasonable	 goals;	(2)	choosing	 foods	sensibly;	 (3)	increasing	 physical	activity,	
and	(4)	modifying	behavior.	These	are	described	as	follows.
Setting reasonable goals
Setting	reasonable	 and	attainable	 goals	is	an	important	 component	 of	any	successful	 weight	
management	 program.	 For	most	people,	a	loss	of	5	to15	percent	of	body	weight,	most	of	
which	is	fat,	will	significantly 	reduce	disease	risk.	Therefore, 	it	has	been	suggested 	that	the	
initial	goal	of	weight	loss	should	be	to	reduce	body	weight	by	approximately	 10	percent	
over	a	period	of	about	six	months	(National	 Institute	 of	Health;	National	 Heart,	Lung,	and	
Blood	Institute	1998).	A	gradual	loss	of	10	percent	of	body	weight	is	considered 	achievable	
for	most	individuals 	and	is	easier	to	maintain 	than	larger	weight	losses.	Most	people	who	
lose	large	amounts	 of	weight	or	lose	weight	rapidly	eventually	 regain	all	that	they	have	lost.	
Repeated	 cycles	of	weight	loss	and	regain,	often	referred	 to	as	weight cycling ,	may	increase	
the	proportion	 of	body	fat	with	each	successive	 weight	regain	and	cause	a	decrease	 in	RMR,	
making	subsequent	weight	loss	more	difficult	(Seagle	 et al.	2009).
	 When	 it	comes	to	weight	loss,	slow	and	steady	is	the	way	to	go,	and	weight	loss	should	not	
exceed	one	to	two	pounds	a	week.	This	will	promote	the	loss	of	fat	and	not	lean	tissue.	It	is	
estimated	 that	a	pound	of	fat	provides	 3500	kcal.	Therefore,	 to	lose	a	pound	of	fat,	one	must	
decrease	 energy	intake	and/or	increase	 energy	output	by	this	amount.	 To	lose	a	pound	a	
week,	one	must	shift	energy	balance	by	500	kcal	per	day	(3500	kcal	÷	7	days	=	500	kcal/day). 	
Note	that	this	is	the	predicted	 average	weight	loss	at	this	energy	deficit.	The	actual	amount	
of	weight	loss	per	week	may	vary	over	time.	Rather	than	making	dramatic	 dietary	changes,	
small	changes	such	as	reducing 	portion	sizes	and	cutting	back	on	energy-	dense	snacks	make	
a	big	difference	 in	overall	energy	intake.	Once	body	weight	stabilizes	 and	the	new	lower	
weight	is	maintained	 for	a	few	months,	 a	decision	 can	be	made	whether	 additional	 weight	
loss	is	needed.
	Table	15.5 	outlines	 the	recommendations	 of	a	weight	loss	diet	made	by	the	National	
Institutes	 of	Health	Obesity	Education	 Initiative	 (2000).	What	is	reflected	 in	the	recom-
mendations	 is	that	energy	intake	should	provide	nutritional	 adequacy	 without	excess;	that	
is,	somewhere	 between	 deprivation	 and	complete	 freedom	 to	eat.	A	reasonable	 suggestion 	
is	that	an	adult	needs	to	increase	activity	levels	and	reduce	food	intake	sufficiently	 to	create	
a	deficit	of	500	kcal	per	day.	As	mentioned	 earlier,	such	a	deficit	produces	 a	weight	loss	of	
about	one	pound	a	week,	a	rate	that	supports	 the	loss	fat	efficiently,	 while	retaining	 lean	
tissue.	In	general,	weight	loss	diets	provide	1200	to	1600	 kcal	a	day.
Choosing foods sensibly
Contrary	 to	the	claims	of	fad	diets,	no	one	food	plan	is	magical	and	no	specific	food	
should	be	included	 or	avoided	 in	a	weight	management	 program.	 In	fact,	weight	loss	
plans	that	drastically	 reduce	calories	and	offer	limited	food	choices	leave	people	feeling	
hungry	and	dissatisfied.	 Thus,	weight	loss	diets	that	encourage	 people	to	eat	foods	that	
are	healthy	and	appealing	tend	to	have	greater	success.

Energy balance and weight control 		389
	 The	main	characteristic	 of	a	weight	loss	diet	is	that	it	provides	 less	energy	than	the	
person	needs	to	maintain	 current	body	weight.	Reducing	 energy	intake	is	best	achieved	
by	cutting	back	on	energy-	dense	foods	that	have	little	nutritional	 value	such	as	soft	
drinks,	potato	chips,	cookies,	 and	cakes.	Aside	from	their	low-	energy	densities,	 foods	
such	as	wholegrains,	 legumes,	 nuts,	fruits,	and	vegetables	 offer	many	health	benefits	
such	as	micronutrients	 and	fiber.	In	addition,	 these	foods	tend	to	have	greater	volume	
compared	to	more	energy-	 dense	foods,	thus	helping	people	feel	full	more	easily.
	 Most	people	still	believe	that	to	lose	weight	one	should	avoid	foods	that	contain	fat.	
However,	 this	is	not	the	case.	As	discussed	 in	Chapter	 10,	the	Dietary Guidelines for 
Americans 	now	recommend	 that	we	choose	our	fats	as	carefully	 as	we	choose	our	
carbohydrates.	 In	general,	 it	is	best	to	limit	intake	of	foods	containing	 trans	and	
saturated	 fatty	acids.	Foods	containing	 relatively	 more	polyunsaturated	 and	mono-
unsaturated	 fatty	acids	are	healthier.	 Another	 common	 misconception	 is	that	dairy	
products 	and	meat	are	high-	fat	foods	that	should	be	avoided	when	trying	to	lose	
weight.	Again,	the	key	to	good	nutrition	 is	moderation	 and	choosing	 wisely.	For	
example, 	switching 	from	whole-	to	reduced- 	fat	milk	is	one	way	to	lower	caloric	intake	
without	 losing	many	vitamins	 and	minerals	 found	in	dairy	products.	 Likewise,	 how	
meat	is	prepared	 and	what	types	of	meat	are	consumed	 can	greatly	affect	the	amount	
of	calories	consumed. 	Lean	meats	prepared 	by	broiling	or	grilling	are	both	nutritious	
and	satisfying.
	 Healthy	 eating	also	requires	 people	to	pay	attention	 to	hunger	and	satiety	cues.	
Rather,	the	amount	 of	food	served	or	packaged	 often	determines	 how	much	we	eat.	
That	is,	visual	cues,	rather	than	internal	cues,	have	a	greater	influence	 on	the	quantity	 of	
food	consumed.	 For	example,	 some	commercially	 made	muffins	are	extremely	 large,	
containing	 as	many	calories	 as	eight	slices	of	bread.	Therefore,	 learning	 to	choose	
reasonable	 portions	 of	food	is	a	critical	component	 to	successful	 weight	management.	 In	
fact,	reducing	 portion	sizes	by	as	little	as	10	to	15	percent	could	reduce	our	daily	caloric	Table 15.5 	General	recommendations	for	a	weight	loss	diet
Nutrient Recommended intake
Kcal	(BMI	 ≥35) 500–1000	 kcal	per	day	reduction	from	usual	intake
Kcal	(BMI	between	27	and	35) 300–500	kcal	per	day	reduction	from	usual	intake
Total	fat 30%	or	less	of	total	kcal
Saturated	fatty	acids	 8–10%	of	total	kcal
Monounsaturated	fatty	acids Up	to	15%	of	total	kcal
Polyunsaturated	fatty	acids Up	to	10%	of	total	kcal
Cholesterol 300	mg	or	less	per	day
ProteinaApproximately	15%	of	total	kcal
Carbohydrateb55%	or	more	of	total	kcal
Sodium	chloride No	more	than	2400	 mg	of	sodium	or	approximately	6	 g	of	 
	sodium	chloride	(salt)	per	day
Calcium 1000	to	1500	 mg	per	day
Fiber 20	to	30	g	per	day
Source:	National	Institutes	of	Health	Obesity	Education	Initiative	(2000).
Notes
a	 Protein	should	be	derived	from	plant	sources	and	lean	sources	of	animal	protein.
b	Carbohydrate	and	fiber	should	be	derived	from	vegetables,	fruits,	and	wholegrains.

390		 Energy balance and weight control
intake	by	as	much	as	300	kcal.	One	way	to	limit	serving	size	is	to	consider	 sharing	large	
and	supersize	meals	the	next	time	you	eat	in	a	restaurant.
	Table	15.6 	presents	 some	examples	 of	how	to	save	kcal	via	simple	substitutions.	 By	
choosing	 foods	wisely,	a	significant	 reduction	 in	fat	and	total	calories	may	be	achieved.	
As	you	should	realize,	it	is	best	to	consider	 eating	healthily	 and	making	a	lifestyle	change	
rather	than	a	weight	loss	plan.	A	person	who	adopts	a	lifelong	“eating	plan	for	good	
health”	rather	than	a	“diet	for	weight	loss”	will	be	more	likely	to	keep	the	lost	weight	off.	
Keep	in	mind	that	well-	balanced	 diets	that	emphasize	 fruits,	vegetables,	 wholegrains,	
lean	meats	or	meat	alternatives,	 and	low-	fat	milk	products	 offer	many	health	benefits	
even	when	they	don’t	result	in	weight	loss.
Increasing physical activity
Physical	 activity	is	an	important	 component	 of	any	well-	designed	 weight	management	
program.	 Exercise	 promotes	 fat	loss	and	weight	maintenance.	 It	increases	 energy	
expenditure,	 so	if	intake	remains	the	same,	energy	stored	as	fat	is	used	as	fuel.	In	theory,	
an	increase	 in	activity	of	200	kcal	five	times	a	week	will	result	in	the	loss	of	a	pound	of	fat	
in	about	three	and	a	half	weeks.	Exercise	 also	promotes	 muscle	development.	 This	is	
important	 during	weight	loss	because	 muscle	is	metabolically	 active	tissue.	Increase	 in	
muscle	mass	helps	prevent	the	decrease	 in	resting	metabolic	 rate	that	occurs	as	body	
weight	decreases.	 Weight	loss	is	also	better	maintained	 when	physical	activity	is	included	
in	the	weight	management	program	(Wilmore	1996).
	 It	is	important	 to	realize	that	people	can	be	physically	 fit	while	being	overweight.	
Normal	blood	pressure	 and	healthy	blood	glucose	concentration	 and	lipid	profile	are	
important	 indicators	 of	physical	 fitness.	Studies	 show	that	obese	individuals	 who	
are	physically	 fit	have	fewer	health	problems	 than	do	average-	weight	individuals	 who	are	
unfit	(Lovejoy	 et al.	2003).	An	added	benefit	of	including	 physical	 activity	in	a	weight	
reduction	 program	 is	the	maintenance	 of	bone	health.	Regular	participation	 in	physical	
activity	also	helps	relieve	boredom	 and	stress,	and	promotes	 a	positive	self-	image.	Phys-
ical	activity	is	also	an	effective	 strategy	in	preventing	 unhealthy	 weight	gain	in	normal,	
overweight,	 and	obese	individuals.	 An	expert	panel	assembled	 by	the	International	
Association	 for	the	Study	of	Obesity	concluded	 that	45	to	60	minutes	 of	daily	exercise	
can	help	prevent	 normal-	weight	individuals	 from	becoming	 overweight,	 overweight	
people	from	becoming	 obese,	and	already	obese	individuals	 from	worsening	 their	
condition.
	 The	latest	physical	activity	guideline	 for	adult	is	60	minutes	 of	physical	activity	per	day	
to	maintain	 body	weight	and	prevent	weight	gain,	and	60	to	90	minutes	 per	day	for	the	
maintenance	 of	weight	loss.	Duration	 and	regular	performance,	 rather	than	intensity,	
are	the	keys	to	success.	One	should	search	for	activities	 that	can	be	continued	 over	time.	
In	this	regard,	walking	 vigorously	 three	miles	per	day	can	be	as	helpful	as	aerobic	
dancing	 or	jogging	if	it	is	maintained.	 Moreover,	 activities	 of	lighter	intensity	 are	less	
likely	to	lead	to	injuries.	 Some	resistance	 exercise	 or	weight	training	 should	also	be	
added	to	increase	 lean	body	mass	and,	in	turn,	fat	use.	As	lean	muscle	mass	increases,	 so	
does	one’s	basal	metabolic	 rate.	Various	exercise	 strategies	 to	maximize	 energy	expen-
diture	are	discussed	in	detail	in	later	sections	of	this	chapter.
Modifying behavior
Behavior	 and	attitude	play	an	important	 role	in	supporting	 efforts	to	achieve	and	main-
tain	appropriate	 body	weight.	In	order	to	keep	weight	at	a	new	lower	level,	food	intake	
and	exercise	 patterns	 must	be	changed	 for	life.	However,	 changing	 the	hundreds	 of	

Table 15.6	Selected	food	substitutes	for	reducing	fat	and	caloric	intake
Food class Higher fat foods Low-fat alternative
Dairy	products Whole	milk Fat-free	(skim),	low-fat	(1%),	or	reduced-fat	(2%)	milk
Whipping	cream Whipped	cream	made	with	fat-free	milk
Cream	cheese Light	or	fat-free	cream	cheese
Cheese	(cheddar,	Swiss,	American) Low-calorie,	reduced	fat,	or	fat-free	cheese
Cereals,	grains,	and	pastas Ramen	noodles Rice	or	spaghetti	noodles
Pasta	with	white	sauce	(alfredo) Pasta	with	red/marinara	sauce
Pasta	with	cheese Pasta	with	vegetables
Granola Bran	flakes,	oatmeal,	or	reduced	granola
Meat,	fish,	and	poultry Regular	hot	dogs	 Low-fat	hot	dogs
Bacon	or	sausages Canadian	bacon	or	lean	ham
Regular	ground	beef Ground	turkey	or	extra	lean	ground	beef
Chicken	or	turkey	with	skin Chicken	or	turkey	without	skin	
Oil-packed	tuna Water-packed	tuna
Beef	(chuck,	rib,	brisket) Beef	(round,	loin)	trimmed	of	external	fat
Pork	(spare	ribs,	untrimmed	loin) Pork	tenderloin	or	trimmed,	or	lean	smoked	ham	
Frozen	breaded	or	fried	fish Fresh	or	unbreaded	fish
Whole	eggs Egg whites or egg substitutes 
Baked	goods Croissants,	brioches,	etc. French	rolls	or	soft	brown	rolls
Donuts,	sweet	rolls,	muffins,	or	pastries English	muffins,	muffins	with	reduced	fat,	or	bagels	
Party	crackers Low-fat	crackers	or	saltine	or	soda	crackers
Cake	(pound,	chocolate,	yellow) Cake	(angle	food,	white,	gingerbread)
Cookies Reduced-fat	or	fat-free	cookies	(graham	crackers,	ginger	snaps,	fig	bars)
Snack	and	sweets Nuts Popcorn,	fruits,	vegetables
Ice	cream Sorbet,	sherbet,	low-fat	or	fat-free	yogurt,	or	ice	cream
Custards	or	puddings	made	with	whole	milk Puddings	made	with	skim	milk
Fats,	oils,	and	salad	dressings Butter	or	margarine Light	spread	or	diet	margarine,	jelly,	jam,	or	honey	
Mayonnaise Light	mayonnaise	or	mustard
Salad	dressings Reduced-calorie	or	fat-free	dressings,	lemon	juice,	or	plain,	herb	  
	flavored,	or	wine	vinegar
Oils,	shortenings,	or	lard Using	non-stick	cooking	spray	for	stir-frying	or	apple	sauce,	or	prune	  
	puree	for	baked	goods

392		 Energy balance and weight control
small	behaviors	 of	overeating	 and	under-	exercising	 that	lead	to	obesity	requires	 time	and	
effort.	A	person	must	commit	to	take	action.
	 Changing	 behaviors	 requires	 identifying	 the	old	patterns	 that	led	to	weight	gain	and	
replacing	 them	with	new	ones	to	maintain	 weight	loss.	This	may	be	accomplished	
through	 a	process	called	behavior	 modification,	 which	is	based	on	the	theory	that	behav-
iors	involve	(1)	antecedents	 or	cues	that	lead	to	the	behavior,	 (2)	the	behavior	 itself,	and	
(3)	consequences	 of	the	behavior.	 For	example,	 sitting	in	front	of	the	television	 and	
mindlessly	 consuming	 a	large	bag	of	potato	chips	may	leave	you	feeling	bad	because	you	
consumed	 the	extra	calories.	 In	this	case	the	antecedent	 is	watching	 TV,	and	behavior	 is	
mindlessly	 eating	the	chips,	and	the	consequence	 is	feeling	remorse	 and	gaining	weight.	
The	key	to	modifying	 this	behavior	 is	to	recognize	 the	antecedent,	 change	the	behavior,	
and	replace	the	negative	consequence	with	a	positive	one.
	 Therefore,	 to	solve	a	problem	 one	must	first	identify	all	the	behaviors	 that	created	the	
problem	 in	the	first	place.	Keeping	 a	record	will	help	identify	eating	and	exercise	 behav-
iors	that	may	need	changing.	 It	will	also	establish	 a	baseline	 against	which	to	measure	
future	progress.	 With	so	many	possible	 behavior	 changes,	 a	person	can	choose	where	to	
begin.	Start	simple	and	don’t	try	to	master	them	all	at	once.	Attempting	 too	many	
changes	 at	one	time	can	be	overwhelming.	 Pick	one	trouble	area	that	is	manageable	 and	
start	there.	Practice	 desired	behavior	 until	it	becomes	 routine.	 Then	select	another	
trouble	area	to	work	on,	and	so	on.
Options for reducing energy intake
An	ideal	weight	management	 program	 should	provide	for	a	reduction	 in	energy	intake	
along	with	education	 about	meeting	 nutrient	 needs,	increasing	 energy	expenditure,	 and	
changing	 lifestyle	patterns	 that	led	to	the	weight	gain.	Fad	diets,	such	as	those	that	
emphasize	 eating	primarily	 a	single	food,	special	foods,	or	specific	combination	 of	foods,	
may	promote	 weight	loss	over	the	short	term,	but	since	they	are	not	nutritionally	 sound	
they	cannot	be	consumed	 safely	for	long	periods.	 These	fads	do	not	encourage	 exercise	
or	promote	 the	changes	 in	eating	habits	that	affect	body	weight	over	the	long	term.	If	
the	program’s	 approach	 is	not	the	one	that	can	be	followed	 for	a	lifetime,	 it	is	unlikely	
to	promote	 successful	 weight	management.	 The	following	 sections	 discuss	some	of	the	
more	common	methods	for	reducing	energy	intake.
Low- calorie diets
Weight	loss	plans	based	simply	on	reducing	 energy	intake	are	the	most	common	 choices.	
Some	of	the	common	 plans	include	(1)	fixed	meal	plans,	(2)	free-	choice	diets,	(3)	liquid	
formula	diets,	and	(4)	very	low-	calorie	diets.	Some	recommend	 energy	reduction	 without	
restricting	 types	of	foods	selected,	 some	use	an	exchange	 system	to	plan	energy	and	
nutrient	intake,	and	others	provide	low-	 calorie	packed	meals	and	formulas.
 Fixed- meal plans :	These	are	diet	plans	in	which	you	either	choose	from	a	limited	list	of	
food	options	or	in	which	the	entire	menu	is	decided	 for	you.	For	example,	 a	fixed-	meal	
plan	may	specify	a	cup	of	cornflakes	 with	a	banana	for	breakfast,	 tuna	salad	and	an	apple	
for	lunch,	and	grilled	chicken	 with	broccoli	 for	dinner.	These	diets	are	easy	to	follow	
and	may	make	losing	weight	easier,	but	can	be	boring	and	thus	are	not	practical	 for	the	
long	term.	In	addition,	 they	don’t	teach	food	selection	 skills	because	 the	meals	are	
predetermined.
 Free- choice diets :	These	diets	allow	individuals	 to	choose	the	foods	they	eat	so	long	as	
the	total	caloric	intake	is	reduced.	 They	offer	flexibility	 and	variety,	and	can	suit	dif-
ferent	preferences.	 This	type	of	diet	often	uses	a	food-	guide	pyramid	 to	construct	 a	

Energy balance and weight control 		393
balanced	 low-	calorie	diet.	For	example,	 a	diet	with	as	few	as	1200	kcal	can	be	planned	 by	
using	the	low	end	of	a	range	of	suggested	 servings	and	making	low-	calorie	choices.	These	
diets	may	not	meet	nutrient	 needs	unless	dieters	are	familiar	with	basic	nutritional	 prin-
ciples	and	diets	are	based	on	sound	food	selection	guidelines.
 Liquid formula diets :	Liquid	formula	 diets	recommend	 a	combination	 of	food	and	
formula	to	provide	a	daily	energy	intake	of	about	800	to	1200	kcal.	They	normally	 consist	
of	two	liquid	meal	replacements	 and	a	normal	meal.	The	dieter	can	also	snack	on	fresh	
fruit	or	vegetables.	 Liquid	diets	can	lead	to	weight	loss	quickly,	but	this	effect	is	purely	
short	term.	They	can	be	very	difficult	to	maintain	 due	to	the	few	calories	that	are	permit-
ted	to	be	consumed.	 Liquid	diets	do	not	teach	you	how	to	eat	in	order	to	stay	slim	for	
the	long	term.	They	need	to	be	accompanied	 by	a	behavior-	 changing	 course	that	deals	
with	and	prevents	 the	reasons	for	overeating.	 Otherwise,	 it	is	easy	to	regain	any	weight	
lost	on	a	liquid	diet.
 Very low- calorie diets :	These	diets	are	defined	as	those	containing	 fewer	than	800	kcal	per	
day.	They	became	popular	in	response	to	a	desire	for	rapid	weight	loss.	These	diets	provide	
little	energy	and	a	high	proportion	 of	protein.	The	protein	in	the	diet	will	be	used	to	meet	
the	body’s	protein	needs	and	will	therefore	 prevent	excessive	 loss	of	the	body’s	protein.	
Often,	very	low-	calorie	diets	are	offered	as	a	liquid	formula.	 These	formulae	 provide	from	
300	to	800	kcal	and	from	50	to	100	g	of	protein	per	day.	They	also	contain	the	recom-
mended	 daily	requirements	 for	vitamins,	 minerals,	 trace	elements,	 and	fatty	acids.	The	
initial	weight	loss	is	relatively	 rapid,	about	three	to	five	pounds	per	week.	However,	 in	most	
cases,	about	75	percent	of	this	initial	weight	loss	comes	from	water	loss.	Once	initial	weight	
loss	ends,	weight	loss	slows	in	part	because	the	dieter’s	resting	metabolism	 decreases	 to	con-
serve	energy,	and	physical	 activity	decreases	 because	the	dieter	often	does	not	have	the	
energy	to	continue	 their	typical	level	of	physical	activity.	Very	low-	calorie	diets	are	no	more	
effective	 than	other	methods	 in	the	long	term	and	carry	more	risks.	At	these	low-	energy	
intakes,	body	protein	is	broken	down	and	potassium	 is	excreted.	 Depletion	 of	potassium 	
can	result	in	irregular	 heartbeats,	 which	can	be	fatal.	Studies	have	also	shown	that	in	about	
one	in	four	individuals	 following	 a	very	low-	calorie	diet	for	a	few	months,	gallstones	 develop.	
Gallstone	 formation	 is	facilitated	 by	the	more	concentrated	 bile	fluid	and	reduced	 flow	as	a	
result	of	the	diet.	Other	side-	effects	include	fatigue,	nausea,	light-	headedness,	 constipation, 	
anemia,	hair	loss,	dry	skin,	and	menstrual 	irregularities. 	It	is	recommended 	that	very	low-	
calorie	diets	be	carried	out	in	conjunction	with	medical	supervision.
Diets that modify macronutrient intake
Rather	than	focusing	 on	counting	 calories	as	a	way	of	reducing	 body	weight,	some	diets	
concentrate	 on	modifying	 the	proportion	 of	energy	containing	 nutrients.	 Currently,	 one	
of	the	biggest	controversies	 is	the	role	of	dietary	carbohydrate	 versus	dietary	fat	in	pro-
moting	weight	loss.	Weight	loss	diets	that	are	low	in	fat	and	high	in	carbohydrates	 have	
long	been	considered	 the	most	effective	 in	terms	of	weight	management.	 In	fact,	as	dis-
cussed	in	Chapter	 10,	the	Dietary Guidelines for Americans 	advocate	 low-	fat	food	choices	
with	an	emphasis	 on	wholegrains,	 fruits,	and	vegetables.	 They	suggest	that	we	consume	
45	to	65	percent	of	energy	from	carbohydrate,	 10	to	35	percent	from	protein,	 and	20	to	
30	percent	from	fat.	However,	 Dr.	Robert	Atkins,	one	of	the	first	pioneers	 of	the	low-	
carbohydrate	 diet,	shocked	 the	nutritional	 world	in	1972	when	he	proposed	 that	too	
much	carbohydrate,	 rather	than	too	much	fat,	may	actually	cause	people	to	gain	weight.	
Since	then,	there	have	been	numerous	 diets	developed	 that	consist	of	an	altered	macro-
nutrient	 distribution	 favoring	 a	low-	carbohydrate	 intake.	Caution	 should	be	exercised	 in	
using	these	diets	as	they	promote	 quick	weight	loss,	limit	food	selections,	 and	generally	
lack	supporting	evidence	on	safety	and	long-	 term	efficacy.

394		 Energy balance and weight control
 Low- fat, high- carbohydrate diets :	These	diets	contain	approximately	 10	percent	of	calo-
ries	as	fat	and	are	very	high	in	carbohydrates.	 The	most	notable	are	the	“Pritikin	 Diet”	
and	Dr.	Dean	Ornish’s	 “Eat	More,	Weigh	Less”	diet	plans.	The	diets	advise	dieters	to	
avoid	meat,	dairy,	oils,	and	olives;	low-	fat	meat	and	dairy	may	be	eaten	in	moderation.	
With	an	emphasis	 on	fruits,	vegetables,	 and	wholegrains,	 the	diets	provide	about	65	to	
75	percent	of	total	calories	from	carbohydrates,	with	proteins	making	up	the	difference.
	 There	 are	several	reasons	 why	advocates	 of	low-	fat	diets	believe	such	diets	help	
promote	 weight	loss.	Gram	for	gram,	fat	has	twice	as	many	calories	as	carbohydrate	 and	
protein.	 Therefore,	 it	is	reasonable	 to	assume	that	consuming	 less	fat	may	lead	to	low	
energy	intake	which	in	turn	results	in	weight	loss.	Fat	can	also	make	foods	more	palata-
ble,	contributing	 to	overconsumption.	 In	addition,	 excess	calories	 from	fat	are	more	
readily	stored	by	the	body	compared	 to	those	from	carbohydrate	 and	protein.	 This	is	
due	to	energy	cost	associated	 with	excess	glucose	and	amino	acids	converted	 into	fatty	
acids	prior	to	storage.	Recent	studies	suggest	that	low-	fat	diets	benefit	overall	health	by	
lowering	 total	and	LDL	cholesterol	 concentrations,	 increasing	 HDL	cholesterol	 concen-
trations,	and	improving	blood	glucose	regulation	(Lovejoy	 et al.	2003).
	 It	must	be	kept	in	mind	that	low-	fat	diets	are	not	always	low	in	energy;	even	a	diet	low	
in	fat	will	result	in	weight	gain	if	energy	intake	exceeds	energy	output.	This	can	be	illus-
trated	by	the	fact	that	the	percentage	 of	calories	as	fat	in	the	typical	American	 diet	has	
decreased	 while	the	number	 of	people	who	are	overweight	 continues	 to	increase.	
Although	 this	dietary	approach	 is	not	harmful,	 it	is	difficult	 to	follow.	People	become	
quickly	bored	with	this	type	of	diet	because	they	cannot	eat	many	of	their	favorite	foods.	
The	diets	emphasize	 a	consumption	 of	grains,	fruits,	and	vegetables,	 which	most	people	
cannot	sustain	for	very	long.
 Low- carbohydrate, high- fat, or high- protein diets :	These	diets	are	at	the	opposite	 end	of	the	
weight	loss	diet	spectrum. 	Some	of	these	diets,	such	as	the	introduction 	phase	of	the	Atkins	
diet,	severely	restrict	carbohydrate	 intake	by	prohibiting	 nearly	all	carbohydrate	 foods	and	
allowing	 an	unlimited	 quantity	 of	meat	and	high-	fat	(~	80–90%	of	the	total	energy	intake)	
foods	that	are	low	in	carbohydrate.	 Others,	such	as	the	Zone	and	South	Beach	diets,	take	a	
more	moderate	 approach	 by	allowing	 more	proteins	as	well	as	fruits,	vegetables,	 and	whole-
grains.	One	diet	which	has	more	recently	become	popular	is	the	Ketogenic 	diet,	which	was	
initially	used	to	treat	epilepsy.	 The	Ketogenic	 and	Atkins	diets	are	similar	in	terms	of	
macronutrient	 composition,	 i.e.,	5	percent	carbohydrate,	 60	percent	fat,	and	35	percent	
protein.	However, 	with	the	Atkins	diet,	the	dieter	is	able	to	introduce 	more	carbohydrates	
(albeit	still	a	very	limited	quantity)	 on	completion	 of	the	initial	introduction	 phase.	Under	
the	condition	 where	bodily	carbohydrate	 is	limited,	fatty	acids	can	only	be	partially	 oxi-
dized.	As	a	result,	more	ketones	will	be	produced.	 Ketones	 can	be	used	as	a	source	of	
energy.	They	can	also	suppress	 appetite,	 thereby	making	weight	loss	easier	(refer	to	Figure	
2.4).	Low-	carbohydrate	 diets	have	become	popular	in	recent	years,	with	almost	15	percent	
of	Americans	 reporting	 that	they	are	on	some	type	of	low-	carbohydrate	 diet	to	lose	weight.	
These	diets	are	all	based	on	the	premise	that	a	high-	carbohydrate	 intake	causes	an	increase	
in	insulin	levels,	which	promote	storage	of	body	fat.
	 Weight	 loss	produced	 by	this	dietary	approach	 appears	to	be	short	term	and	is	largely	
attributed	 to	water	loss.	As	there	will	be	3	grams	of	water	stored	per	gram	of	glycogen	
formed,	the	low-	carbohydrate	 intake	leads	to	less	glycogen	 synthesis	 and	less	water	in	the	
body.	A	very	low-	carbohydrate	 intake	also	forces	the	liver	to	produce	 needed	glucose.	
The	source	of	carbons	 for	this	glucose	is	mostly	protein	from	tissues	such	as	muscle.	
Therefore,	 such	production	 of	glucose	will	result	in	a	loss	of	lean	body	mass.	Essential	
ions	such	as	potassium	 are	also	lost	in	the	urine.	With	the	loss	of	glycogen	 stores,	lean	
tissue,	and	water,	dieters	lose	weight	very	rapidly.	 However,	 when	a	normal	diet	is	
resumed,	weight	is	regained.

Energy balance and weight control 		395
	 Studies	 comparing	 weight	loss	associated	 with	low-	carbohydrate	 diets	and	with	low-	fat	
diets	showed	that	at	six	months	a	greater	weight	loss	was	achieved	 on	low-	carbohydrate	
diets.	However,	 differences	 had	disappeared	 by	12	months	(Klein	2004).	There	is	no	
compelling	 evidence	 to	suggest	that	low-	carbohydrate	 diets	are	more	effective	 than	other	
types	of	diets	in	helping	people	lose	weight	in	the	long	run.	Weight	loss	associated	 with	
low-	carbohydrate	 diets	may	not	necessarily	 be	caused	by	an	altered	macronutrient	 distri-
bution,	but	rather	by	a	reduction	 in	caloric	intake	as	a	result	of	limited	food	choice	and	
increased	 ketosis	(Bravata	 et al.	2003).	Perhaps	 one	of	the	biggest	concerns	 regarding	
low-	carbohydrate	 diets	is	that	these	diets	contain	too	much	total	fat,	saturated	 fat,	and	
cholesterol	 and	may	lack	essential	 macronutrients,	 dietary	fiber,	and	phytochemicals	
rich	in	antioxidants.	 This	dietary	approach	 still	awaits	more	evidence	 concerning	 its	
long-	term	efficacy	and	health	consequences.
Exercise strategies in maximizing energy expenditure
Energy	expenditure	 via	physical activity  or exercise	typically	 accounts	 for	about	30	
percent	of	total	daily	energy	expenditure.	 Physical	 activity	and	exercise	 have	been	used	
interchangeably	 in	the	past,	but	more	recently,	 exercise	 has	been	referred	 to	as	physical	
activity	that	is	planned,	 structured,	 repetitive,	 and	purposive	 in	the	sense	that	the	
improvement	 or	maintenance	 of	one	or	more	components	 of	physical	 fitness	is	the	
objective	 (Caspersen	 et al.	1985).	Pursuing	 exercise	 and	physical	 activity	regularly	 has	
long	been	part	of	recommendations	 made	by	various	healthy	organizations	 and	authori-
ties.	This	is	because	exercise	 and	physical	activity	will	enable	individuals	 to	increase	 their	
energy	expenditure	 or	create	an	energy	deficit,	while	gaining	cardiorespiratory	 fitness.	It	
has	been	recommended	 that	exercise	 in	conjunction	 with	dietary	modification	 is	the	
most	effective	 behavioral	 approach	 for	weight	loss	(National	 Health,	Lung,	and	Blood	
Institute	1998).
Enhancing energy expenditure through physical activity
An	exercise	 program	 typically	 used	in	a	weight	management	 program	 consists	of	con-
tinuous,	 large	muscle	activities	 with	moderate	 to	high	caloric	cost	such	as	walking,	
running, 	cycling,	swimming, 	rowing,	and	stair	stepping. 	This	approach 	will	increase	
daily	energy	expenditure 	and	help	tip	the	caloric	equation 	so	that	energy	output	is	
greater	than	energy	input.	Most	training	studies	that	have	demonstrated 	exercise-	
induced	 weight	loss	have	adopted	 exercise	 programs	 that	elicit	weekly	energy	expendi-
ture	of	1500	to	2000	kcal.	This	suggests	 that	energy	expenditure	 at	a	minimum	 of	
300	kcal	should	be	achieved	 during	each	exercise	 session	and	exercise	 should	be	per-
formed	no	less	than	five	times	a	week.	This	amount	 of	energy	expenditure	 generally 	
occurs	with	30	minutes	 of	moderate	 to	vigorous	 running,	 swimming,	 and	cycling,	or	
60	minutes	of	brisk	walking.
	 Energy	 expenditure	 during	exercise	 can	be	influenced	 by	intensity ,	duration ,	and	
modes	of	exercise. 	Unlike	most	fitness	programs 	in	which	intensity 	of	exercise	plays	
an	important	 part	in	exercise	 prescription,	 any	program	 aimed	at	weight	loss	should	
ultimately 	be	guided	by	the	measure 	of	total	energy	expenditure 	and	its	relation	to	
energy	consumption.	 In	order	to	burn	the	most	calories,	 exercise	 duration	 is	con-
sidered	more	important,	 and	exercise	 intensity	 must	be	adapted	 for	the	amount	 of	
time	one	would	like	to	exercise	 (American	 College	 of	Sports	Medicine	 2014).	It	has	
been	suggested	 that	exercise	 intensity	 should	be	tailored	 to	allow	a	minimum	 of	
300	kcal	to	be	expended	 during	each	exercise	 session.	 Recent	studies	which	include	
dietary	modification	 have	suggested	 that	overweight	 women	who	exercise	 for	a	longer	

396		 Energy balance and weight control
duration	 each	week	are	able	to	lose	more	weight	during	an	18-month	 intervention 	
(		Jakicic	 et al.	1999).	In	this	study,	individuals	 reporting	 >200	minutes	 of	exercise	 per	
week	also	reported	 >2000	kcal	wk–1	of	leisure-	time	physical	 activity	as	measured	 by	a	
questionnaire.
	 The	higher	the	exercise	 intensity,	 the	more	the	energy	expenditure	 during	exercise	
per	unit	of	time.	Stated	alternatively,	 it	costs	you	more	energy	to	move	your	body	weight	
or	a	given	resistance	 at	a	faster	pace.	However,	 it	is	often	difficult	 to	maintain 	vigorous	
exercise	 for	a	sufficient	 period	of	time.	This	occurs	especially	 in	overweight	 or	obese	
individuals	 who	have	low	exercise	 tolerance	 in	general.	 Some	of	them	may	also	have	the	
risk	factors	that	contradict	 vigorous	 exercise.	 Consequently,	 those	who	need	to	maximize	
their	energy	expenditure	 may	have	to	depend	more	on	the	expansion	 of	exercise	 dura-
tion	in	order	to	achieve	this	goal.	The	American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	 (ACSM)	
position	 suggests	 that	in	order	to	be	effective	 in	maximizing	 energy	expenditure	 long	
term,	exercise	 intensity	 should	not	exceed	70	percent	of	an	individual’s	 maximal	 heart	
rate,	which	corresponds	 to	~60	percent	of	VO2max	or	heart	rate	reserve	(HRR)	(Don-
nelly	 et al.	2009).	This	intensity	 allows	the	attainment	 of	recommended	 exercise	 duration	
of	~45	minutes.	 The	concept	 of	mild	exercise	 is	also	considered	 ideal	for	those	who	
begin	an	exercise	 program.	 This	will	allow	adequate	 time	for	individuals	 to	adapt	to	their	
exercise	 routine	and	to	progressively	 increase	 exercise	 intensity	 over	time.	It	should	be	
made	clear	that	exercise	 at	moderate	 to	high	intensities	 is	proven	effective	 in	augment -
ing	aerobic	fitness.	However,	 the	level	of	exercise	 intensity	 necessary	 to	improve	 fitness	is	
generally	 higher	than	the	level	of	exercise	 intensity	 necessary	 to	facilitate	 energy	expend-
iture	and	weight	loss.
	 Exercise	 frequency 	complements	 duration	 and	intensity.	 Frequency	 of	exercise	 refers	
to	how	often	each	week	one	should	perform	 exercise	 and	is	often	determined	 based	on	
how	vigorous	 each	exercise	 session	is.	It	has	been	recommended	 that	a	training	program	
consisting	 of	exercise	 of	moderate	 intensity	 (i.e.,	50	to	70	percent	VO2max)	be	carried	
out	no	less	than	three	times	a	week	in	order	to	develop	and	maintain	 cardiorespiratory	
fitness	and	improve	 body	composition	 (American	 College	 of	Sports	Medicine	 2014).	
More	recent	studies	also	suggest	that	energy	expenditure	 necessary	 to	bring	about	
weight	loss	should	be	no	less	than	1500	kcal∙week–1.	In	order	to	achieve	this	threshold,	
energy	expended	 during	each	exercise	 session	should	reach	at	least	500	kcal	if	exercise	 is	
performed	 three	times	a	week,	or	300	kcal	if	exercise	 is	performed	 five	times	a	week.	
Obviously,	 this	latter	exercise	 arrangement	 (i.e.,	>5	times	week–1)	is	more	tolerated	 by	
sedentary	 and	overweight	 individuals	 who	often	have	difficulty	 sustaining	 vigorous	 exer-
cise.	The	more	frequent	 exercise	 regimen	 will	also	help	in	maximizing	 fat	utilization	 and	
minimizing	exercise-	 related	injury	(Wallace	1997).
	 As	discussed	 earlier,	 in	order	to	produce	 meaningful	 weight	loss,	one	should	
attempt	to	achieve	energy	expenditure 	of	at	least	300	kcal	during	each	exercise	
session.	 This	amount	 of	exercise	 expenditure	 corresponds	 to	~30	minutes	 of	
moderate-	 intensity	 exercise.	 If	such	activity	can	be	performed	 three	to	four times a 
week,	it	will	help	in	achieving	 a	total	of	~1000	kcal	of	energy	expenditure	 each	week.	
The	caloric	expenditure	 of	~1000	kcal∙week–1	is	considered	 adequate	 for	an	overweight 	
individual	 to	begin	an	exercise	 intervention	 (Donnelly	 et al.	2009).	This	amount,	
however,	 has	been	found	to	be	insufficient	 for	long-	term	weight	maintenance	 and	
should	be	increased	 progressively.	 Jakicic	 et al.	(2001)	observed 	that	those	who	
reported	 >2000	kcal∙week–1	physical	 activity	showed	 no	weight	regain	from	6	to	18	
months	 of	treatment,	 whereas	 there	was	significant	 weight	regain	observed	 in	indi-
viduals	who	had	energy	expenditure	 below	this	threshold.	 Table 	15.7 	provides	 a	
summary	 of	exercise	 guidelines	 as	well	as	a	sample	prescription	 plan	for	maximizing 	
energy	expenditure	and	long-	 term	weight	control.

Table 15.7	Exercise	guidelines	and	sample	prescription	plan	for	maximizing	energy	expenditure	and	long-term	weight	control
Component Guidelines Sample prescription
Mode Exercises	include	low-impact	and	non-weight-bearing	activities	
involving	large	muscle	groups.	Other	non-conventional	modes	such	as	
yoga,	weight-lifting,	or	household	activities	may	also	be	considered.Walking,	cycling,	swimming,	low-impact	group	exercise	such	
as	water	aerobics.
Frequency Exercise	should	be	performed	daily	or	at	least	five	times	per	week.	If	
necessary,	a	single	session	may	be	split	into	two	or	more	mini-sessions.Daily	or	5–7	times	a	week.
Duration Exercise	duration	should	be	maximized	within	the	limit	of	tolerance	
and	may	be	determined	by	time	or	caloric	expenditure.40–60	minutes	a	day,	20–30	minutes	twice	per	day,	or	
150–400	kcal	per	day.
Intensity Intensity	should	generally	stay	at	the	lower	end	of	the	target	range	and	
be	determined	in	accordance	with	amount	of	time	or	calories	one	
would	like	to	accomplish.40–70%	VO2max,	40–70%	HRreserve,	or	60–80%	age-
predicted	HRmax.
Progression In	order	to	achieve	successful	weight	loss	and	maintenance,	there	
should	be	a	progressive	increase	in	the	volume	of	exercise	as	
intervention	continues.Proper	increment	in	exercise	volume	should	be	made	
gradually	as	one’s	tolerance	increases.	Both	intensity	and	
duration	may	eventually	reach	the	upper	end	of	their	
respective	range.

398		 Energy balance and weight control
Exercise intensity and fat utilization
Will	mild	exercise	 be	superior	 in	facilitating	 fat	utilization?	 As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	9, 	
exercise	 at	lower	intensities	 is	associated	 with	a	lower	respiratory	 exchange	 ratio	which	
suggests	 a	greater	percentage	 of	energy	derived	from	fat	oxidation.	 This	observation	 has	
resulted	 in	a	current	myth	that	in	order	to	burn	fat	you	must	exercise	 at	a	lower	percent-
age	of	your	maximal	 oxygen	uptake	(VO2max).	It	may	also	explain	the	growing	 popular-
ity	of	“fat-	burner”	classes,	which	assume	that	low-	intensity	 exercise	 will	lead	to	increased	
weight	loss.	It	must	be	made	clear	that	at	higher	intensities,	 though	the	percentage	 of	
the	total	calories	derived	from	fat	is	lower,	the	total	energy	expenditure	 resulting	 from	
exercise	 can	be	higher,	especially	 if	accompanied	 by	sufficient	 exercise	 duration.	 Con-
sequently,	 the	absolute	 quantity	 of	calories	 burned	due	to	fat	oxidation	 may	also	be	
higher.	We	made	a	comparison	 of	fat	metabolism	 during	exercise	 between	 50	and	70	
percent	VO2max	using	data	collected	 from	our	laboratory.	 As	shown	in	Table	15.8,	those 	
who	exercise	 at	50	percent	VO2max	consume	 oxygen	at	1	liter	per	minute	and	respira-
tory	exchange	 ratio	is	0.86.	At	this	ratio,	according	 to	Table	13.3,	a	total	of	4.875	calories	
per	min	(1	l	min–1	×	4.875	kcal	l–1)	are	expended	 and	2.24	or	46	percent	of	these	are	fat	
calories.	 On	the	other	hand,	for	those	who	exercise	 at	70	percent	VO2max,	their	oxygen	
consumption	 and	respiratory	 exchange	 ratio	are	1.5	liter∙min–1	and	0.88,	respectively.	 As	
a	result,	a	total	of	7.349	calories	per	minute	(1.5	l	min–1	×	4.899	kcal	l–1)	are	expended	
and	2.87	or	39	percent	of	these	are	fat	calories.	 Although	 this	is	a	lower	percentage	 of	fat	
calories,	 it	is	a	higher	total	number	 of	fat	calories.	 From	this	example,	 it	is	clear	that	
even	though	a	greater	percentage	 of	fat	is	elicited	at	a	lower	level	of	exercise	 intensity,	
this	does	not	necessarily	mean	that	more	quantity	of	fat	is	burned.
	 One	may	always	try	to	pursue	an	exercise	 routine	of	sufficient	 intensity	 that	will	bring	
about	a	decent	level	of	total	energy	expenditure. 	However, 	exercise	intensity	should	be	
carefully	 chosen	to	prevent	premature	 fatigue	and	to	allow	an	exercise	 program	 to	con-
tinue.	Exercise	duration	could	decrease	drastically 	if	intensity	is	set	too	high	or	exceeds	
the lactate threshold ,	the	intensity	 at	which	blood	lactic	acid	begins	to	accumulate	 drasti-
cally.	Based	on	the	current	literature,	 exercise	at	60	to	65	percent	VO2max	would	help	in	
eliciting	a	maximal	 rate	of	fat	oxidation	 (Achten	 et al.	2002).	The	intensity	 at	which	fat	oxi-
dation	peaks	is	denoted	 as	Fatmax,	and	this	intensity	 coincides	 closely	with	lactate	threshold.  
For	most	individuals,	 exercising	 at	Fatmax	can	allow	them	to	achieve	the	recommended 	
energy	expenditure 	within	30	to	45	minutes.	As	such,	this	intensity	appears	to	be	effective	
in	maximizing	both	fat	utilization	and	total	energy	expenditure	in	a	time-	 efficient	manner.
	 Performing	 more	vigorous	 exercise	 has	also	been	related	to	a	greater	reduction	 in	fat	
from	the	abdominal	 area.	This	was	evidenced	 by	a	number	 of	epidemiological	 studies	
that	involved	 middle-	aged	and	elderly	individuals	 (Buemann	 and	Tremblay	 1996,	
Table 15.8 		Comparisons	 of	fat	and	total	calories	expended	 during	stationary	 cycling	at	50	and	
70	percent	VO2max
Metabolic variables Exercise intensity
50% VO2max 70% VO2max
Oxygen	uptake	(l∙min–1) 1.0 1.5
Respirator	exchange	ratio 0.86 0.88
Caloric	equivalent	(kcal–1l) 4.875 4.899
Energy	output	(kcal∙min–1) 4.875 7.349
Relative	fat	contribution	(%) 46 39
Fat	calories	(kcal∙min–1) 2.24 2.87

Energy balance and weight control 		399
Tremblay	 et al.	1990	and	1994,	Visser	 et al.	1997).	For	example,	 Visser	 et al.	(1997)	found	
that	intensive	 exercise	 such	as	playing	sports	was	negatively	 associated	 with	abdominal	
fat.	Tremblay	 et al.	(1990)	also	observed	 a	preferential	 reduction	 in	abdominal	 fat	in	
those	who	performed	 more	intensive	 exercise.	 This	association	 that	favors	the	use	of	
more	vigorous	 exercises	 may	be	explained	 by	the	fact	that	the	fat	stored	in	the	abdom-
inal	area	can	be	more	easily	degraded	 during	high-	intensity	 exercise	 compared	 to	the	fat	
stored	in	other	tissues.	It	has	been	found	that	lipolysis	 is	subject	to	the	influence	 of	
epinephrine,	which	increases	with	increased	exercise	intensity	(Wahrenberg	 et al.	1991).
Other exercise strategies
Exercise	 intensity	 and	duration	 are	the	two	prescription	 indices	that	are	often	used	to	
develop	an	effective	 yet	safe	exercise	 program.	 An	easy	application	 of	such	prescription	
is	to	have	a	steady-	state	exercise	 being	performed	 at	target	intensity	 for	a	desired	dura-
tion.	In	reality,	however,	 many	exercise	 sessions	 are	conducted	 in	a	more	complex	
fashion.	 For	example,	 a	single	exercise	 session	may	be	divided	into	two	or	three	smaller	
sessions	 performed	 at	different	 times	of	the	day	so	that	the	target	caloric	expenditure	
can	be	achieved	 via	accumulation.	 In	many	cases,	despite	the	provision	 of	target	
intensity,	 an	exercise	 is	performed	 with	intensity	 being	fluctuated	 such	as	interval	train-
ing	that	involves	 alternating	 short	periods	of	intense	exercise	 with	less	intense	recovery	
periods.	 In	addition,	 recent	evidence	 suggests	 that	resistance	 training	 be	included	 in	a	
comprehensive	weight	loss	program	to	maximize	its	effectiveness.
Intermittent exercise
A	few	studies	have	examined	 the	efficacy	of	adopting	 intermittent exercise 	for	weight	
management	 (Donnelly	 et al.	2000,	Jakicic	 et al.	1995,	1999).	This	direction	 of	research	
was	driven	by	a	question	 as	to	whether	 the	same	metabolic	 and	weight	loss	benefits	 can	
be	achieved	 by	exercising	 in	multiple	 sessions	of	shorter	duration	 throughout	 the	day.	
Intermittent	 exercise	 is	typically	 defined	as	the	accumulation	 of	30	to	40	minutes	 of	exer-
cise	each	day	through	 participation	 in	multiple	 10-	to	15-minute	 exercise	 sessions	daily.	
This	exercise	 strategy	is	considered	 advantageous	 for	those	who	dislike	or	are	unable	to	
tolerate	 continuous	 exercise,	 or	who	have	a	daily	schedule	 that	prohibits	 a	typical	
workout	 session	to	be	carried	out.	Intermittent	 exercise	 has	long	been	proven	effective	
in	improving	 exercise	 compliance	 and	enhancing	 cardiorespiratory	 fitness	and	improv-
ing	risk	factors	for	cardiovascular	 diseases.	 Its	direct	impact	upon	energy	metabolism	
and	weight	loss	has	also	been	recognized.	 Jakicic	 et al.	(1995)	reported	 that	exercising	 in	
multiple	 short	bouts	per	day	was	just	as	effective	 as	a	single	long	exercise	 session	in	pro-
ducing	weight	loss	while	gaining	cardiorespiratory	 fitness	over	a	20-week	 intervention	
period	that	included	 dietary	modification.	 In	this	same	study,	the	program	 of	multiple	
short	bouts	of	exercise	 was	also	found	to	increase	 exercise	 adherence,	 which	implies	that	
this	exercise	 strategy	has	the	potential	 to	facilitate	 the	long-	term	adoption	 of	a	weight	
loss	program	and	thus	to	prevent	weight	regain.
	 Whether	 performing	 multiple	 short	sessions	 of	exercise	 instead	of	a	long	exercise	
bout	will	elicit	more	energy	expenditure	 is	another	 intriguing	 question	 that	emerged	
recently.	 The	total	energy	expenditure	 of	a	single	exercise	 session	includes	 the	energy	
expended	 during	the	actual	exercise	 period	as	well	as	that	during	the	recovery	 period	
following	 exercise;	 the	latter	is	referred	 to	as	excessive	 post-	exercise	 oxygen	consump -
tion	(EPOC).	 As	mentioned	 earlier,	EPOC	may	be	viewed	as	a	compensatory	 response	
resulting	 from	a	disruption	 to	homeostasis	 caused	by	the	preceding	 exercise.	 In	this	
context,	 it	may	be	speculated	 that	exercise	 of	shorter	duration	 performed	 more	than	

400		 Energy balance and weight control
once	daily	would	be	associated	 with	a	greater	EPOC	due	to	multiple	 occurrences	 of	
recovery.	 Almuzaini	 et al.	(1998)	have	found	that	splitting	 a	30-minute	 session	into	two	
15-minute	 sessions	elicited	a	greater	overall	post-	exercise	 VO2.	Although	 the	long-	term	
impact	of	this	exercise	 arrangement	 upon	energy	metabolism	 and	weight	loss	remains	to	
be	elucidated,	 exercising	 for	20	to	30	minutes	 twice	daily	has	been	adopted	 as	an	altern-
ative	approach	 for	those	with	chronic	conditions,	 including	 cardiovascular,	 neuromus-
cular,	and	metabolic	disorders	(Wallace	1997).
Variable intensity protocols
In	line	with	the	concept	 of	EPOC,	we	recently	 examined	 whether	 an	aerobic	exercise	
performed	 at	variable	 intensities,	 such	as	Spinning®,	 would	produce	 greater	energy	
expenditure	 (Kang	 et al.	2005a).	This	type	of	exercise	 has	gained	popularity	 within	
recent	years	because	 it	replicates	 the	experience	 of	outdoor	 cycling	during	which	
intensity	 often	varies	and	is	considered	 more	effective	 in	engaging	 exercise	 participants,	
especially	 when	conducted	 to	the	accompaniment	 of	music	and/or	visualization	 (Francis	
et al.	1999).	In	this	study,	we	found	a	greater	EPOC	following	 the	variable	 intensity	 or	
Spinning®	 exercise	 as	compared	 to	the	constant	 intensity	 exercise	 even	though	the	
average	intensity	 was	kept	the	same.	We	attributed	 this	greater	EPOC	to	the	fact	that	
intensity	 fluctuated	 during	variable	intensity	 exercise,	 which	may	have	disturbed	 homeo-
stasis	to	a	greater	extent.	This	exercise	 arrangement	 was	also	found	to	be	associated	 with	
a	greater	accumulation	 of	blood	lactic	acid.	However,	 the	level	of	exertion	 during	the	
entire	workout	 was	not	perceived	 to	be	any	harder	than	the	constant	 intensity	 exercise,	
which	makes	this	variable	intensity	 protocol	 more	attractive	 to	those	who	seek	to	maxi-
mize	energy	expenditure	 while	participating	 in	an	exercise	 program.	 It	should	be	noted	
that	a	variable	intensity	 exercise	 regimen	 differs	from	conventional	 interval	training	pro-
tocols	in	that	the	former	is	the	exercise	 in	which	there	is	no	rest	period	and	intensity	
fluctuates	in	a	repeating	pattern	and	with	a	smaller	magnitude.
High- intensity interval training
High- intensity interval training 	(HIIT)	involves	a	repeated	 series	of	short	bouts	of	high-	
(near	maximum)	 intensity	 exercise	 interspersed	 with	a	brief	rest	or	low-	intensity	 activity.	
The	total	workout	 duration	 usually	lasts	for	no	more	than	20	minutes.	 The	most	
common	 model	employed	 in	this	type	of	training	 consists	 of	four	to	six	bouts	of	
30-second	 all-	out	cycling	effort	against	a	supramaximal	 workload	 separated	 by	~4	
minutes	 of	recovery	 (Gibala	 et al.	2012).	One	may	make	this	model	less	intense	by	
lengthening	 workouts	 but	reducing	 rest	periods,	 i.e.,	10	×	60-second	 work	bouts	at	an	
intensity	 that	elicits	~90	percent	of	maximal	 heart	rate,	interspersed	 with	60	seconds	of	
recovery.	 HIIT	may	easily	be	modified	 for	people	of	all	fitness	levels	and	special	con-
ditions,	such	as	overweight	 and	diabetes.	 HIIT	may	be	performed	 on	all	exercise	 modes,	
including	 cycling,	 walking,	 swimming,	 aqua	training,	 elliptical	 cross-	training,	 and	in	
many	group	exercise	 classes.	HIIT	workouts	 typically	 last	for	a	shorter	time,	but	provide	
comparable	 fitness	benefits	compared	 to	continuous	 endurance	 workouts.	 This	is	mainly	
because	 HIIT	workouts	 are	associated	 with	greater	post-	exercise	 energy	expenditure	
compared	 to	traditional	 steady-	state	exercise	 (see	Figure 	15.3). 	Because	 of	the	vigorous	
nature	of	HIIT,	the	EPOC	associated	 with	HIIT	can	add	up	to	15	to	20	percent	more	cal-
ories	to	the	overall	workout	 energy	expenditure,	 it	is	usually	no	more	than	10	percent	
for	an	aerobic	session.	A	growing	 body	of	evidence	 demonstrates	 that	when	compared	 to	
traditional	 endurance-	 based	training	 on	a	matched-	 work	basis,	HIIT	can	induce	similar	
or	even	superior	 physiological	 adaptations	 including	 increases	 in	glucose	 tolerance,	

Energy balance and weight control 		401
insulin	sensitivity,	 and	skeletal	muscle	oxidative	 capacity	(Burgomaster	 et al.	2008,	Gibala	
et al.	2012).	Such	findings	 are	important	 given	that	“lack	of	time”	remains	 the	most	com-
monly	cited	barrier	to	regular	exercise	participation.
	 A	question	 remains	 as	to	whether	 the	general	population	 could	safely	tolerate	 the	
extreme	 nature	of	this	exercise	 regimen.	 Persons	 who	have	been	living	relatively	
sedentary	 lifestyles	 or	periods	 of	physical	 inactivity	 may	have	an	increased	 coronary	
disease	risk	to	high-	intensity	 exercise.	 It	is	recommended	 that	medical	clearance	 from	a	
physician	 be	obtained	 as	a	safety	measure	 for	anyone	who	wants	to	start	HIIT.	Prior	to	
beginning	 HIIT	training,	 a	person	is	encouraged	 to	establish	 a	base	fitness	level,	which	is	
consistent	 aerobic	training	 three	to	five	times	a	week	for	20	to	60	minutes	 per	session	at	
a	relatively	 high	intensity	 for	several	weeks	that	produce	 certain	cardiorespiratory	 and	
muscular	 adaptations.	 Establishing	 appropriate	 exercise	 form	and	muscle	strength	 is	
important	before	engaging	in	regular	HIIT.
Resistance exercise
Resistance	 training	 is	a	potent	stimulus	 to	increase	 fat-	free	mass	(FFM),	which	may	
help	in	preserving	 lean	body	mass	while	reducing	 body	weight	and	body	fat.	An	
increase	 in	FFM	will	also	help	maintain	 or	augment	 the	resting	energy	rate,	which	
accounts	 for	about	60	percent	of	total	daily	energy	expenditure	 (Poehlman	 and	Melby	
1998).	The	resting	metabolic	 rate	is	primarily	 related	to	the	amount	 of	FFM.	It	is	
known	that	the	resting	metabolic	 rate	decreases	 with	advancing	 age	at	a	rate	of	2	to	3	
percent	 per	decade	and	this	decrease	 is	primarily	 attributed	 to	the	loss	of	FFM.	So,	
incorporating	 resistance	 training	 is	especially	 important	 as	people	age	and	can	help	
counteract	 the	age-	related	decrease	 in	neuromuscular	 function	 and	resting	energy	
expenditure.
	 Resistance	 training	 also	improves	 muscular	 strength	 and	power.	This	adaptation	 is	
necessary	 in	terms	of	athletics.	 It	also	allows	an	ordinary	 individual	 to	be	more	capable	Oxygen uptak e
Warm-up 
HIIT wo rkout 
Traditional wo rkout EPOC after a
HIIT wo rkout
EPOC after a
traditional wo rkout
Figure 15.3 	Comparisons	of	metabolic	rate	during	and	after	HIIT	vs.	traditional	workout

402		 Energy balance and weight control
of	performing	 daily	tasks	such	as	carrying,	 lifting,	and	changing	 body	posture.	 The	
improvement	 in	muscular	 strength	 may	not	impact	energy	balance	directly.	 However,	 it	
will	facilitate	 the	adoption	 of	a	more	active	lifestyle	in	sedentary	 overweight	 and	obese	
individuals	 (Donnelly	 et al.	2009).	Some	other	metabolic	 benefits	 of	resistance	 training	
may	include	improvement	 in	blood	lipid	profile	and	increase	 in	fat	oxidation	 (Kokkinos	
and	Hurley	1990,	Van	Etten	 et al.	1995,	Treuth	 et al.	1995).
	 As	with	other	forms	of	exercise,	 resistance	 training	 increases	 energy	expenditure	
during	both	exercise	 and	recovery.	 However,	 resistance	 exercise	 differs	from	aerobic	
exercise	 in	that	its	energetic	 contribution	 to	daily	total	energy	expenditure	 is	very	small.	
Energy	expenditure	 during	a	typical	weight-	lifting	workout	 ranges	from	100	to	200	kcal,	
a	figure	that	is	less	than	a	half	as	much	as	what	is	normally	 achieved	 during	a	single	
session	of	aerobic	exercise.	 On	the	other	hand,	resistance	 training	 can	trigger	a	pro-
found	increase	 in	post-	exercise	 oxygen	consumption	 due	to	the	fact	that	the	exercise	 is	
performed	 intermittently	 at	a	very	high	intensity.	 In	fact,	a	number	 of	studies	have	found	
that	the	average	oxygen	consumption	 following	 resistance	 exercise	 is	even	greater	than	
that	following	 aerobic	exercise	 when	both	types	of	exercise	 were	equated	 for	total	energy	
expenditure	(Gillette	 et al.	1994,	Burleson	 et al.	1998).
	 Similar	 to	cardiorespiratory	 fitness,	the	resistance	 training	 prescription	 should	be	
made	based	on	the	health	and	fitness	status	and	the	specific	goals	of	the	individual.	 For	
weight	management	 purposes,	 the	major	goal	of	the	resistance	 training	 program	 is	to	
develop	 sufficient	 muscular	 strength	 so	that	an	individual	 is	able	to	sustain	a	regular	
training	 routine	and	at	the	same	time	to	live	a	physically	 independent	 lifestyle.	 In	order	
to	maximize	 energy	expenditure,	 a	circuit	weight-	training	 program	 may	be	introduced	
in	order	to	allow	individuals	 to	work	on	multiple	 muscle	groups	(i.e.,	gluteals,	 quad-
riceps,	hamstrings,	 pectorals,	 latissimus	 dorsi,	deltoids,	 and	abdominals)	 in	one	session	
that	may	last	for	as	long	as	60	minutes.	 The	metabolic	 advantage	 is	that	this	training	
format	involves	multiple	 sets	of	low-	intensity	 (i.e.,	40	percent	1-RM)	and	high	repetitions	
(i.e.,	10	to	15	repetitions)	 on	each	muscle	group,	coupled	 with	a	relatively	 shorter	rest	
interval	between	 sets	(i.e.,	~15	seconds).	 In	addition	 to	more	energy	expended	 during	
the	workout,	 this	type	of	training	 also	elicits	greater	EPOC	as	compared	 to	regular	
strength-	 training	 programs.	 It	is	recommended	 that	resistance	 training	 be	performed	 at	
least	twice	a	week,	with	at	least	48	hours	of	rest	between	 sessions	to	allow	proper	recu-
peration	(American	College	of	Sports	Medicine	2014).
Limitations of exercise alone in weight management
Despite	the	ability	of	physical	 activity	and	exercise	 to	create	a	negative	 caloric	balance,	
the	actual	impact	of	exercise	 alone	upon	weight	loss	is	often	found	to	be	minimal	
(Garrow	 1995,	Wilmore	 1995,	Saris	1993).	Although	 there	is	a	negative	 association	
between	 the	level	of	physical	 activity	and	the	prevalence	 of	obesity	and	those	who	are	
physically	 active	tend	to	be	leaner,	it	remains	 unclear	as	to	the	extent	to	what	physical	
activity	or	exercise	 can	do,	even	combined	 with	dietary	restriction,	 in	treating	those	who	
are	already	overweight	 and	obese.	In	a	meta-	analysis	of	493	studies	over	a	25-year	period,	
Miller	 et al.	(1997)	reported	 that	exercise	 alone	has	a	relatively	 minor	effect	on	weight	
loss	and	does	not	add	much	to	the	weight	loss	effect	of	a	reduced	 diet.	There	are	some	
studies	that	have	demonstrated	 the	positive	effect	of	exercise	 on	weight	loss	(Ross	 et al.	
2000).	However,	 the	exercise	 intervention	 adopted	 was	relatively	 vigorous	 and	resulted	
in	an	energy	deficit	of	700	kcal	per	day,	a	caloric	value	twice	as	much	as	that	which	is	
normally	 recommended	 to	achieve	during	an	exercise	 session.	It	appears	that	in	order	
for	physical	 activity	and	exercise	 to	have	a	major	impact	upon	body	weight	reduction,	
the	exercise	 prescription	 should	entail	exercising	 daily,	with	each	exercise	 being	

Energy balance and weight control 		403
performed	 at	moderate	 to	high	intensity	 for	more	than	an	hour.	Obviously,	 most	obese	
individuals	cannot	tolerate	and	sustain	this	exercise	dosage.
	 The	weak	effect	of	exercise	 alone	on	weight	loss	may	be	explained	 by	the	fact	that	
when	people	begin	exercise	 training,	 they	tend	to	rest	more	after	each	exercise	 session,	
which	negates	the	calories	expended	 during	exercise.	 One	should	also	realize	that	the	
amount	of	energy	expended	 during	exercise	 that	is	suitable	to	sedentary	 or	obese	indi-
viduals	is	actually	relatively	 small.	For	example,	 the	net	energy	cost	during	a	three-mile  
brisk	walk	for	a	70-kilogram	 or	154-pound	 obese	woman	is	only	about	150	to	160	kcal	
(215	total	calories	minus	50	calories	for	the	BMR).	Given	that	1	pound	of	fat	contains	
3500	calories,	 it	would	take	nearly	a	month	of	daily	walking	of	three	miles	to	lose	1	pound	
of	fat	if	all	else	stays	the	same.	Exercise	 by	itself	being	ineffective	 in	weight	loss	may	not	
be	attributed	 to	the	claim	that	people	will	eat	more	when	they	become	 more	active.	In	
fact,	in	those	studies	that	failed	to	demonstrate	 the	effect	of	added	exercise,	 the	exercise	
intervention	 was	implemented	 under	controlled	 dietary	conditions	 in	which	all	subjects	
whether	treated	with	exercise	or	not	were	fed	a	similar	diet.
	 From	 a	public	health	standpoint,	 despite	such	potential	 limitations	 of	exercise	 alone	
in	weight	management,	 it	seems	prudent	 to	conclude	 that	any	exercise	 is	better	than	
none	and,	within	the	range	of	tolerance,	 more	is	probably	 better.	Still,	regular	physical	
activity	has	proven	beneficial	 in	many	aspects	irrespective	 of	body	weight	control	such	as	
improving	 cardiorespiratory	 fitness,	augmenting	 an	overall	feeling	of	well-	being,	and	
reducing	 risk	factors	for	developing	 chronic	conditions	 such	as	coronary	 heart	disease,	
hypertension,	diabetes,	and	osteoporosis.
Summary
•	 According	 to	the	set-	point	theory,	there	is	a	control	system	built	into	every	person	
dictating	 how	much	fat	he	or	she	should	carry	–	a	kind	of	thermostat	 for	body	fat.	
The	set	point	for	body	fatness	is	determined	 by	genetics.	 Some	individuals	 have	a	
high	setting,	others	have	a	low	one.	In	an	obese	individual,	 body	fat	is	set	to	remain	
at	a	higher	level	than	it	is	in	a	lean	individual.
•	 Body	 fatness	is	regulated	 through	 the	interaction	 of	the	brain	with	an	array	of	affer-
ent	signals	from	various	body	systems.	 Signals	from	the	gastrointestinal	 tract,	hor-
mones,	and	circulating	 nutrients	 regulate	 short-	term	hunger	and	satiety.	Signals	
such	as	the	release	of	leptin	from	fat	cells	regulate	 long-	term	energy	intake	and	
expenditure.
•	 Leptin	 functions	 to	help	with	body	weight	regulation	 by	decreasing	 energy	intake	
and	increasing	 energy	expenditure.	 Defects	in	the	leptin	signaling	 system	cause	the	
brain	to	assess	adipose	tissues	status	improperly	 and	thus	impair	body	weight	regula-
tion.	Many	obese	people	are	found	to	have	high	levels	of	leptin,	suggesting	 that	
these	individuals	may	have	developed	resistance	to	respond	to	these	hormones.
•	 The	 total	energy	expenditure	 on	any	given	day	may	be	further	divided	into	(1)	resting	
energy	expenditure	 (RMR),	(2)	thermal	effect	of	food,	and	(3)	energy	expenditure 	
during	physical	activities.	 Quantitatively,	 RMR	accounts	 for	about	60	to	75	percent	of	
the	total	daily	energy	expenditure. 	It	is	due	to	this	large	fraction	that	RMR	has	
attracted	 a	great	deal	of	attention	 with	regard	to	its	role	in	mediating	 weight	gain	and	
obesity.
•	 Upon	 completion	 of	an	exercise,	 VO2	does	not	return	to	resting	levels	immediately, 	
but	does	so	relatively 	gradually. 	This	elevated	oxygen	consumption 	following 	exercise	
has	been	referred	 to	as	excess	post-	exercise	 oxygen	consumption	 (EPOC).	 EPOC	
represents	 energy	necessary	 to	restore	homeostasis	 that	is	disrupted	 during	the	pro-
ceeding	exercise	and	its	quantity	is	proportional	to	the	level	of	exercise	intensity.

404		 Energy balance and weight control
•	 In	contrast	 to	aerobic	exercise,	 resistance	 exercise	 is	often	performed	 in	an	intermit-
tent	fashion.	 Exertion	 can	be	very	strenuous,	 but	is	usually	sustained	 for	no	more	
than	a	minute.	The	energy	cost	of	an	entire	session	of	resistance	 training	 is	usually	
lower	than	most	aerobic	exercises.	 However,	 such	training	 can	produce	 significant	
EPOC.	Circuit	weight-	training	 is	by	far	the	best	choice	for	promoting	 energy	
expenditure	through	resistance	exercise.
•	 The	 thermic	 effect	of	feeding	may	be	divided	into	two	subcomponents:	 obligatory	
and	facultative	 thermogenesis.	 The	obligatory	 component	 is	the	energy	used	for	
digestion,	 absorption,	 assimilation,	 and	storage,	whereas	 the	facultative	 component	
is	an	additional	 increase	 in	energy	expenditure	 caused	by	the	meal-	induced	 activa-
tion	of	the	sympathetic	nervous	system.
•	 Of	three	macronutrients,	 consumption	 of	protein	 is	most	thermogenic	 and	its	
energy	cost	can	reach	20	to	30	percent	of	total	energy	intake.	This	is	followed	 by	
carbohydrate	 (5	to	10	percent)	 and	then	fat	(0	to	5	percent).	 The	greatest	thermic	
effect	associated	 with	protein	may	be	mainly	ascribed	 to	the	extra	energy	needed	for	
its	digestion	 and	absorption	 by	the	gastrointestinal	 tract	as	well	as	deamination	 of	
amino	acids	and	synthesis	of	protein	in	the	liver.
•	 Heredity 	may	predispose 	one	to	obesity.	However, 	environmental 	factors	are	also	
highly	involved.	 When	genetically	 susceptible	 individuals	 find	themselves	 in	an	
environment	 where	food	is	appealing	 and	plentiful	 and	physical	 activity	is	easily	
avoided,	 obesity	is	a	likely	outcome.	 Among	those	environmental	 factors	are	(1)	high-
calorie	and	fat	intake;	(2)	reduced	 energy	expenditure	 due	to	technology	 advance-
ment,	and	(3)	personal	choices	concerning	the	amount	and	type	of	food	consumed.
•	 Treatment	 of	overweight	 and	obesity	should	be	long	term,	similar	to	that	for	any	
chronic	disease.	It	requires	 a	firm	commitment	 to	lifestyle	changes,	 rather	than	a	
quick	fix	as	promoted	 by	many	popular	 diet	books.	An	ideal	weight	management	
program	 should	provide	 for	a	reduction	 in	energy	intake	along	with	education	
about	meeting	 nutrient	 needs,	increasing	 energy	expenditure,	 and	changing	 life-
style	patterns	that	led	to	weight	gain	in	the	first	place.
•	 Studies	 comparing	 weight	loss	associated	 with	low-	carbohydrate	 diets	and	with	
low-	fat	diets	showed	that	at	six	months	a	greater	weight	loss	is	achieved	 on	low-	
carbohydrate	 diets.	However,	 differences	 disappeared	 by	12	months.	 There	is	no	
compelling	 evidence	 that	low-	carbohydrate,	 high-	fat/protein	 diets	are	more	effective	
than	other	types	of	diets	in	helping	people	lose	weight	in	the	long	run.
•	 The	 specific	weight	management	 strategies	 include	 (1)	increase	 physical	 activity	
more	than	energy	consumed	 from	food;	(2)	make	nutritional	 adequacy	 a	priority	
and	emphasize	 foods	with	a	low	energy	density	and	a	high	nutrient	 density;	(3)	limit	
high-	fat	foods:	make	legumes,	 wholegrains,	 vegetables,	 and	fruits	central	to	your	
diet	plan;	(4)	eat	small	portions;	 (5)	limit	concentrated	 sweets	and	alcoholic	 bever-
ages,	and	(6)	keep	a	record	of	diet	and	exercise	habits.
•	 Aerobic	 training	 is	proven	effective	 in	weight	control	and	management.	 It	helps	
increase	 energy	expenditure	 via	repeated	 muscle	contractions.	 It	also	augments	 fat	
utilization	 and	this	may	be	explained	 in	part	by	an	improved	 transport	 of	oxygen	
and	fatty	acids	due	to	increased	capillary	density	of	muscle	tissue	being	trained.
•	 Exercise	 intensity	 and	duration	 are	the	two	important	 measures	 of	exercise	 prescrip-
tion.	Unlike	most	fitness	programs	 in	which	intensity	 of	exercise	 plays	an	important	
part	of	the	exercise	 prescription,	 any	program	 aimed	at	weight	loss	should	ulti-
mately	be	guided	by	the	measure	 of	total	energy	expenditure	 and	its	relation	 to	
energy	consumption.	 In	order	to	burn	the	most	calories,	 exercise	 duration	 is	con-
sidered	more	important,	 and	exercise	 intensity	 must	be	adapted	 to	the	amount	 of	
time	or	calories	one	would	like	to	accomplish.

Energy balance and weight control 		405
•	 Contrary	 to	the	common	 myth,	it	appears	 that	a	relatively	 more	vigorous	 exercise	
program	 is	necessary	 in	order	to	facilitate	 fat	utilization.	 Exercise	 intensity	 that	
elicits	maximal	 rate	of	fat	oxidation	 was	found	to	be	about	60	to	65	percent	VO2max.	
This	finding	may	be	explained	 in	part	by	the	fact	that	the	process	of	lipolysis	 is	
intensity	dependent.
•	 Exercise	 strategies	 for	weight	management	 should	include	not	only	constant-	 load	
exercises	 but	also	those	performed	 in	a	more	complex	 fashion	such	as	intermittent,	
variable	 intensity,	 interval	training,	 and	resistance	 exercise	 protocols.	 In	general,	
these	protocols	 consist	of	a	series	of	more	intense	but	shorter	exercise	 bouts	inter-
spersed	with	rest	or	less	intense	recovery	 periods,	 require	less	total	exercise	 time,	
and	are	associated	with	greater	energy	expenditure	post	exercise.
•	 Circuit	 weight	training	 allows	individuals	 to	work	on	8	to	10	major	muscle	groups	in	
one	session	that	may	last	for	as	long	as	60	minutes.	 It	involves	 multiple	 sets	of	low	
intensity	 and	high	repetitions	 coupled	 with	a	relatively	 shorter	rest	interval	between	
sets.	It	can	stimulate	 both	muscular	 and	cardiorespiratory	 systems	effectively.	 Hence,	
it	may	be	the	choice	for	those	who	are	interested	 in	losing	fat	tissue	while	gaining	
muscle	mass.
Case study: balancing energy intake and energy output
Joe	is	unhappy	 about	the	20	pounds	he	gained	during	his	first	 two	years	at	college.	He	
is	21	years	old,	5	feet	7	inches	tall,	and	weighs	180	pounds.	 He	would	like	to	weigh	
around	160	pounds.	 In	analyzing	 why	he	gained	weight,	Joe	realizes	that	he	has	a	hectic	
schedule.	 While	studying	 full	time,	Joe	also	works	30	hours	a	week	at	a	warehouse	 dis-
tribution	 center	filing	orders.	During	his	leisure	time,	Joe	likes	to	watch	sports	on	TV,	
spend	time	with	friends,	and	study.	Joe	has	little	time	to	think	about	what	he	eats.	On	a	
typical	day,
	he	stops	for	coffee	and	a	pastry	on	his	way	to	class	in	the	morning,	 has	a	
burger	and	pizza	for	lunch	in	a	quick-	service	restaurant,	 and	picks	up	fried	chicken	or	
fish	at	the	drive-	through	 on	his	way	to	work.	He	gets	less	exercise	 than	he	used	to	and	
often	eats	cookies	or	candy	bars	while	studying	 late	at	night.	By	recording	 and	analyz-
ing	his	food	intake	for	three	days,	Joe	found	out	that	he	takes	in	about	3200	kcal	per	
day.	He	also	calculated	 his	estimated	 energy	requirement	 just	to	see	how	this	compares	
to	his
	recommended	 intake.	By	keeping	 an	activity	log,	he	estimated	 that	his	typical	day	
includes	 30	minutes	 of	low	to	moderate	 activity,	such	as	brisk	walking,	 which	puts	his	
activity	level	in	the	“low	active”	category.
Questions
•	 What	 is	Joe’s	estimated	 energy	requirement	 (EER)?	How	does	his	EER	compare	 to	
his	caloric	intake?	(Hint:	See	EER	equations	in	
Chapter
	
8.)
•	 What	changes	could	Joe	make	in	his	diet	that	would	promote	weight	loss?
•	 What	 aspects	of	Joe’s	lifestyle	(other	than	diet)	are	causing	his	weight	gain?	How	
should	he	change	them	in	order	to	promote	weight	loss	and	maintenance?
Review questions
	1	 Define	the	terms	(1)	hunger,	(2)	satiety,	(3)	appetite,	and	(4)	hypothalamus.
	2	 Discuss	the	role	leptin	plays	in	regulation	body	weight.
	3	 Define	 the	term	resting	metabolic	 rate.	What	is	resting	metabolic	 rate	for	an	average	
man	and	an	average	woman?

406		 Energy balance and weight control
	4	 What	are	the	factors	that	have	been	considered	 in	calculating	 one’s	resting	metabolic	
rate,	i.e.,	Harris–Benedict	equations?
	5	 What	 is	the	thermic	 effect	of	feeding?	 How	does	it	differ	between	 consumption	 of	
protein,	carbohydrate,	and	fat?
	6	 What	 is	the	difference	 between	 obligatory	 thermogenesis	 and	facultative	
thermogenesis?
	7	 Explain	 each	of	the	following	 low-	calorie	diets:	(1)	fixed-	meal	plan,	(2)	free-	choice	
diets,	(3)	liquid	formula	diets,	and	(4)	very	low-	 calorie	diets.
	8	 Describe	 the	differences	 in	macronutrient	 distribution	 between	 a	balanced	 and	a	
low-	carbohydrate	diet.
	9	 How	is	weight	loss	brought	about	by	(1)	high-	carbohydrate, 	low-	fat	diets,	and	(2)	low-	
carbohydrate,	high-	 fat	diets?	Which	one	is	more	effective?
10	 What	are	ketones?	Explain	how	ketones	are	produced	in	the	body.
11	 What	 role	does	physical	 activity	play	in	weight	management?	 List	the	potential	 bene-
fits	of	physical	activity	that	are	independent	of	weight	loss.
12	 Define	 the	terms	intensity,	 duration,	 frequency,	 and	progression.	 How	would	you	use	
these	terms	in	establishing	 an	exercise	 program	 for	people	who	want	to	loss	excess	
body	fat?
13	 What	is	EPOC?	How	is	this	term	applied	in	weight	loss	scenarios?
14	 How	 is	circuit	weight	training	carried	out?	What	are	the	advantages	 of	using	this	type	
of	resistance	training	program?
15	 What	 may	be	the	weight	loss	advantage	 of	using	short	duration	 and	high-	intensity	
interval	 training?	 What	could	be	the	potential	 risks	associated	 with	this	type	of	
exercise?
Suggested reading
	1	 Baile	CA,	Della-	Fera	MA,	Martin	RJ	(2000)	Regulation	 of	metabolism	 and	body	fat	
mass	by	leptin.	 Annual Review of Nutrition ,	20:	105–127.
 This paper discusses the role leptin plays in maintaining a stable body weight over the long term 
despite the fact that a variety of environmental conditions alter short- term energy intake.
	2	 Donnelly	 JE,	Blair	SN,	Jakicic	JM,	Manore	 MM,	Rankin	JW,	Smith	BK,	American	
College	of	Sports	Medicine	 (2009)	American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	 Position	
Stand.	Appropriate	 physical	 activity	intervention	 strategies	 for	weight	loss	and	pre-
vention	of	weight	regain	for	adults.	 Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise ,	41:	
459–471.
 Overweight and obesity affects more than two- thirds of the adult population and is associated 
with a variety of chronic diseases. This position stand provides evidence- based guidelines as to 
how an exercise prescription should be made in order to facilitate weight loss and prevent weight 
regain.
	3	 Hill	JO	(2006)	Understanding	 and	addressing	 the	epidemic	 of	obesity:	an	energy	
balance	perspective.	 Endocrine Review ,	27:	750–761.
 This paper helps readers further understand the etiology of obesity. It focuses on how behavioral 
and environmental factors have interacted to produce a positive energy balance that results in 
weight gain.
	4	 Paddon-	 Jones	D,	Westman	 E,	Mattes	RD,	Wolfe	RR,	Astrup	A,	Westerterp-	 Plantenga	
M	(2008)	Protein,	 weight	management,	 and	satiety.	 American Journal of Clinical Nutri -
tion,	87:	1558S–1561S.
 Diets high in protein are popular in treating overweight and obesity. This article provides addi -
tional evidence to support the potential benefits associated with a moderately elevated protein 
intake.

Energy balance and weight control 		407
Glossary
Appetite	the	drive	to	eat	specific	foods	that	is	not	necessarily	related	to	hunger.
Basal metabolic rate 	the	energy	expenditure	 measured	 immediately	 after	awakening	 in	
the	morning.
Circuit weight training 	a	weight	training	 routine	consisting	 of	10	to	12	resistance	 exer-
cises	for	both	the	upper	and	lower	body	executed	 in	a	planned	 fashion	with	limited	
rest	between	exercises.
Duration 	the	length	of	time	physical	 activity	continues	 and	can	also	be	expressed	 in	
terms	of	the	total	number	of	calories	expended.
Excess post- exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC) 	the	amount	 of	extra	oxygen	
required	by	the	body	during	recovery	from	prior	exercise.
Exercise	physical	activity	that	is	planned,	structured,	and	repetitive,	and	purposive.
Facultative thermogenesis 	the	diet-	induced	 thermogenesis	 mediated	 by	the	activation	
of	the	sympathetic	nervous	system.
Fatmax	an	exercise	intensity	at	which	fat	oxidation	rate	peaks.
Frequency 	rate	of	occurrence	 within	a	given	period	of	time	or	a	number	 of	exercise	
sessions	completed	every	week.
Ghrelin	a	hormone	 produced	 by	the	stomach	 in	response	 to	a	lack	of	food	and	
triggering	hunger.
High- intensity interval training 	an	exercise	 that	involves	a	repeated	 series	of	short	bouts	
of	high	(near	maximum)	 intensity	 exercise	 interspersed	 with	a	brief	rest	or	low-	
intensity	activity.
Hypothalamus 	a	portion	of	the	brain	that	contains	 neural	centers,	 helping	 regulate	
appetite	and	hunger.
Intensity 	the	state	of	exertion	 or	quality	of	being	intense	and	can	be	expressed	 using	
heart	rate,	oxygen	consumption,	blood	lactate	concentration.
Intermittent exercise 	an	exercise	 regimen	 during	which	exercise	 stops	and	resumes	 in	
an	alternate	fashion.
Lactate threshold 	the	intensity	 at	which	blood	lactic	acid	begins	to	accumulate	
drastically.
Negative energy balance 	a	condition	where	energy	input	is	smaller	than	energy	output.
Obligatory thermogenesis 	the	diet-	induced	 thermogenesis	 due	to	digestion	 and	
absorption	 as	well	as	the	synthesis	 of	protein,	 fat,	and	carbohydrate	 to	be	stored	in	
the	body.
Oxygen deficit 	a	lag	of	oxygen	consumption	 at	the	onset	of	exercise	 computed	 as	the	
difference	 between	 oxygen	uptake	during	the	early	stages	of	exercise	 and	during	a	
similar	duration	in	a	steady	state	of	exercise.
Physical activity 	muscular	contraction	that	increases	energy	expenditure.
Positive energy balance 	a	condition	where	energy	input	is	greater	than	energy	output.
Resting metabolic rate (RMR) 	the	energy	expenditure	 typically	 measured	 three	to	four	
hours	after	a	light	meal	without	prior	physical	activity.
Set point 	a	control	system	built	into	every	person	dictating	 how	much	fat	he	or	she	
should	carry.
Settling- point theory 	refers	to	the	idea	that	the	set	point	may	be	modified,	 and,	in	the	
case	of	weight	gain,	is	re-	 established	at	a	higher	level.
Thermal effect of food (TEF )	an	increase	 in	energy	expenditure	 associated	 with	con-
sumption	of	foods.
Weight cycling 	repeated	 cycles	of	weight	loss	and	regain	that	may	increase	 the	propor-
tion	of	body	fat	with	each	successive	 weight	regain	and	cause	a	decrease	 in	RMR,	
making	subsequent	weight	loss	more	difficult.

16 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
Contents
Key terms 409
Thermoregulation at rest and during exercise 409
•	 Heat	production	 410
•	 Heat	dissipation	 411
Regulation	of	fluid	and	electrolyte	balance	in	the	body	 414
•	 Role	of	hypothalamus	 414
•	 Condition	of	dehydration	 415
•	 Action	of	the	kidneys	 415
Effect	of	dehydration	on	exercise	performance	 416
•	 Voluntary	dehydration	 416
•	 Involuntary	or	exercise-	 induced	dehydration	 417
Fluid	replacement	strategies	 419
•	 General	hydration	and	rehydration	guidelines	 419
•	 Composition	of	replacement	fluid	 420
•	 Hyperhydration	 422
•	 Overall	recommendations	 423
Heat	injuries	 423
•	 Heat	cramps	 424
•	 Heat	exhaustion	 425
•	 Heat-	stroke	 425
Factors	influencing	heat	tolerance	 426
•	 Level	of	fitness	 426
•	 Gender	 427
•	 Age	 	 427
•	 Level	of	body	fat	 428
•	 Heat	acclimatization	 428
Summary	 429
Case	study	 430
Review	questions	 431
Suggested	reading	 431
Glossary	 432

Thermoregulation and fluid balance   409
Key terms
•	 Aldosterone	 •	 Anti-	diuretic	hormone
•	 Conduction	 •	 Convection
•	 Dehydration	 •	 Evaporation
•	 Gastric	emptying	 •	 Glucose	electrolyte	solutions
•	 Glucose	polymer	solutions	 •	 Heat	acclimatization
•	 Hyperhydration	 •	 Hyponatremia
•	 Involuntary	heat	production	 •	 Maltodextrin
•	 Non-	shivering	thermogenesis	 •	 Osmolality
•	 Radiation	 •	 Relative	humidity
•	 Rhabdomyolysis	 •	 Stroke	volume
•	 Thirst	 •	 Voluntary	heat	production
Thermoregulation at rest and during exercise
In	humans,	 normal	body	temperature	 is	approximately	 37°C	(98.6°F	).	This	value	refers	
to	the	internal	 or	core	temperature,	 which	is	commonly	 measured	 orally	and	rectally.	
On	the	other	hand,	shell	temperature,	 which	represents	the	 temperature	of	 the	skin	and	
the	tissues	directly	 beneath	 it,	varies	considerably	 depending	 on	the	surrounding	
environmental	 temperature.	 At	rest,	rectal	temperature	 is	normally	 0.5	to	1°F	higher	
than	oral	temperature;	 however,	 it	was	reported	 that	following	 a	road	race	rectal	temper-
ature	was	5.5°F	higher	than	oral	temperature,	 suggesting	 that	an	oral	reading	may	not	
be	an	accurate	 reflection	 of	the	true	body	temperature.	 The	fact	that	the	body	is	able	to	
maintain	 its	temperature	 is	achieved	 by	controlling	 the	rate	of	heat	production	 and	the	
rate	of	heat	loss.	As	shown	in	Figure 	16.1, 	body	temperature	 reflects	a	delicate	balance	
between	 heat	production	 and	heat	loss.	When	out	of	balance,	 the	body	either	gains	or	
loses	heat.	The	temperature	 control	center,	which	is	located	in	the	hypothalamus,	 works	
like	a	thermostat;	 it	can	initiate	an	increase	 in	heat	production	 when	body	temperature	
falls	and	an	increase	in	heat	loss	when	body	temperature	rises.
+HDWJDLQ
%05
0XVFXODUDFWLYLW\
6KLYHULQJ
+RUPRQHV
7()
(QYLURQPHQW+HDWORVV
5DGLDWLRQ
&RQGXFWLRQ
&RQYHFWLRQ
(YDSRUDWLRQ&
& &
7KHUPDOEDODQFH
Figure 16.1 	Factors	that	contribute	to	body	temperature	homeostasis

410		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
Heat production
The	body	produces	 internal	 heat	due	to	normal	metabolic	 processes.	 Metabolic	 heat	
production	 is	low	at	rest	or	during	sleep.	However,	 during	intense	exercise	 heat	produc-
tion	is	high.	Heat	production	 may	be	classified	 as	voluntary	 and	involuntary.	 Voluntary 
heat production 	is	brought	 about	by	exercise	 or	physical	 activity,	whereas	 involuntary	
heat	production	 results	from	shivering	 or	the	secretion	 of	hormones,	 such	as	thyroxine	
and	catecholamines.	 Increased	 muscular	 activity	during	exercise	 causes	an	increase	 in	
heat	production	 in	the	body	owing	to	the	inefficiency	 of	the	metabolic	 reactions	 that	
provide	energy	for	contraction.	 The	body	is,	at	most,	20	to	30	percent	efficient.	 There-
fore,	70	to	80	percent	of	the	energy	expended	 during	exercise	 appears	as	heat.	The	total	
amount	of	heat	produced	 in	the	body	depends	 on	the	intensity	 and	duration	 of	the	exer-
cise.	A	more	intense	exercise	 will	produce	 heat	at	a	faster	rate,	while	the	longer	the	exer-
cise	lasts,	the	more	the	total	heat	is	produced.
	 During	 intense	exercise	 this	can	result	in	a	high	heat	load.	As	discussed	 in	Chapter 	
13,	each	liter	of	oxygen	used	is	equivalent	 to	the	production	 of	5	kcal.	Therefore,	 for	
every	liter	of	oxygen	consumed	 during	exercise,	 approximately	 16	kJ	(4	kcal)	of	heat	is	
produced	 and	only	about	4	kJ	(1	kcal)	is	actually	used	to	perform	 mechanic	 work.	There-
fore,	for	an	athlete	consuming	 oxygen	at	a	rate	of	4	l	min–1	during	exercise,	 the	rate	of	
heat	production	 in	the	body	is	about	16	kcal	min–1	or	960	kcal	h–1.	It	is	estimated	 that	at	
an	intensity	 equivalent	 to	about	80	to	90	percent	VO2max,	the	amount	of	heat	produced	
in	a	fit	individual	 could	potentially	 increase	 body	temperature	 by	1°C	(1.8°F	)	every	4	to	
5	minutes	if	no	changes	occur	in	the	body’s	heat	dissipation	mechanism.
	 A	normal	body	temperature	 at	rest	ranges	from	36°	to	38°C	(97°	to	100°F	)	and	may	
rise	to	38°	to	40°C	(100°	to	104°F	)	during	exercise.	 Further	increases	 may	result	in	heat	
exhaustion	 and	subsequently	 heat-	stroke	(both	of	which	will	be	discussed	 later	in	this	
chapter).	 The	elevated	 body	temperature	 during	exercise	 is	not	caused	by	resetting	 the	
hypothalamic	 set	point.	Rather,	it	is	caused	by	the	temporary	 imbalance	 between	 the	
rates	of	heat	production	 and	heat	dissipation	 during	early	stages	of	exercise.	 A	more	
rapid	response	 of	heat	dissipation	 mechanisms	 can	attenuate	 or	delay	the	exercise-	
induced	 rise	in	body	temperature.	 This	can	then	allow	an	athlete	to	compete	 at	a	relat-
ively	lower	body	temperature	 in	a	hot/warm	 environment.	 One	of	the	heat	
acclimatization	 responses	 is	that	athletes	will	be	able	to	respond	 to	the	heat	more	quickly	
on	the	commencement	of	exercise.
 Involuntary heat production 	by	shivering	 is	the	primary	means	of	increasing	 heat	pro-
duction	during	exposure	 to	cold.	Maximal	 shivering	 can	increase	 the	body’s	heat	pro-
duction	 by	approximately	 five	times	the	resting	values.	In	addition,	 the	release	of	
thyroxine	 from	the	thyroid	gland	can	also	increase	 heat	production.	 Thyroxine	 acts	by	
increasing	 the	metabolic	 rate	of	all	cells	in	the	body.	Finally,	an	increase	 in	blood	level	
of	catecholamines	 (epinephrine	 and	norepinephrine)	 can	cause	an	increase	 in	the	rate	of	
cellular	metabolism.	 The	increase	 in	heat	production	 due	to	the	combined	 influences	
of thyroxine and catecholamines is also referred to as non- shivering thermogenesis .
	 Environmental	 factors,	such	as	air	temperature,	 relative	humidity,	 and	air	movement,	
will	also	affect	heat	stress	imposed	 upon	an	active	individual.	 Caution	 should	be	advised	
when	the	air	temperature	 is	27°C	(80°F	)	or	higher.	However,	 if	the	relative	humidity	
and	solar	radiation	 are	high,	lower	air	temperature	 –	even	21°C	(70°F	)	–	may	still	pose	a	
risk	of	heat	stress	during	exercise.	 As	the	water	content	in	the	air	increases,	 the	relative	
humidity	 rises.	The	increased	 humidity	 impairs	the	ability	of	sweat	to	evaporate	 and	may	
thus	restrict	the	effectiveness	 of	the	body’s	main	cooling	system	when	exercising.	 With	
humidity	 levels	close	to	90	to	100	percent,	 heat	loss	via	evaporation	 nears	zero.	There-
fore,	extra	caution	should	be	used	when	the	relative	humidity	 exceeds	50	to	60	percent,	

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		411
especially	 when	accompanied	 by	warmer	temperatures.	 Thermal	 balance	 may	also	be	
affected	 by	air	movement.	 Still	air	hinders	heat	carried	away	by	convection.	 Even	a	small	
breeze	may	help	keep	body	temperature	near	normal	by	moving	heat	away	from	the	skin	
surface.
Heat dissipation
For	the	body	to	transfer	heat	to	the	environment,	 the	heat	produced	 in	the	body	must	have	
access	to	the	outside	world.	The	heat	from	deep	in	the	body	(the	core)	is	moved	by	the	
blood	to	the	skin	(the	shell).	Once	heat	nears	the	skin,	it	can	be	transferred	 to	the	environ-
ment	by	any	one	of	four	mechanisms:	 conduction,	 convection,	 radiation,	 and	evaporation. 	
These	mechanisms 	function	to	protect	the	body	from	overheating. 	F igure	1 6.2	illustrates	
the	potential	 avenues	for	heat	exchange	 in	an	exercising	 human	and	these	heat	exchange 	
avenues	include	radiation,	conduction,	convection,	and	evaporation.
Radiation
Radiation 	is	heat	loss	in	the	form	of	infrared	 rays.	This	involves	the	transfer	of	heat	from	
the	surface	of	one	object	to	the	surface	of	another,	 with	no	physical	 contact	between	
them.	At	rest,	radiation	 is	the	primary	 means	for	dissipating	 the	body’s	excess	heat.	At	
normal	room	temperature,	 (i.e.,	70	to	77°F	or	21	to	25°C),	the	nude	body	loses	about	60	
percent	 of	its	excess	heat	by	radiation.	 This	is	possible	 because	 skin	temperature	 is	
greater	than	the	temperature	 of	surrounding	 objects	(e.g.,	walls,	floors,	furniture,	 etc.),	
6N\WKHUPDOUDGLDWLRQ
(YDSRUDWLRQ
UHVSLUDWRU\
&RQYHFWLRQ
$LUWHPSHUDWXUH
$LUKXPLGLW\
*URXQGWKHUPDO
UDGLDWLRQ
5HIOHFWHGVRODU
UDGLDWLRQ5DGLDWLRQ
0XVFOHEORRGIORZ
FRQYHFWLRQ
:RUN
&RQGXFWLRQ&RQWUDFWLQJ
PXVFOH
$YHQXHVRIKHDWJDLQ
 6N\WKHUPDOUDGLDWLRQ 6RODUUDGLDWLRQ *URXQGWKHUPDOUDGLDWLRQ 5HIOHFWHGVRODUUDGLDWLRQ$YHQXHVRIKHDWORVV 6ZHDWHYDSRUDWLRQ 5HVSLUDWRU\HYDSRUDWLRQ 5DGLDWLRQ &RQYHFWLRQ 6NLQEORRGFRQYHFWLRQ 0XVFOHEORRGFRQYHFWLRQ0HWDEROLF
VWRUDJH(YDSRUDWLRQ
VZHDW
%RG\
FRUH6NLQEORRG
FRQYHFWLRQ6RODUUDGLDWLRQ6XQ
Figure 16.2 	Heat	exchange	avenues	and	thermoregulation	during	exercise

412		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
and	a	net	loss	of	body	heat	occurs	due	to	the	thermal	gradient.	 If	the	temperature	 of	the	
surrounding	 objects	is	greater	than	that	of	the	skin’s	surface,	the	body	will	experience	 a	
net	heat	gain	via	radiation.	 A	tremendous	 amount	of	heat	is	received	 via	radiation	 from	
exposure	to	the	sun.
Conduction
Conduction 	is	defined	 as	the	transfer	 of	heat	from	the	body	into	the	molecules	 of	a	
cooler	object	in	contact	with	its	surface.	In	general,	 the	body	loses	only	small	amounts	 of	
heat	due	to	this	process.	 As	an	example,	 heat	generated	 deep	in	your	body	can	be	con-
ducted	through	 adjacent	 tissues	until	it	reaches	the	body’s	surface.	It	can	then	be	con-
ducted to clothing or a chair that you are sitting on so long as the chair is cooler than 
the	body	surface	in	contact	with	it.	Conversely,	 when	a	hot	object	is	pressed	against	the	
skin,	heat	from	the	object	will	be	transmitted	to	the	skin	to	warm	it.
ConvectionConvection
	is	a	form	of	conductive	 heat	loss	in	which	heat	is	transmitted	 to	either	air	or	
water	molecules 	in	contact	with	the	body.	In	other	words,	it	involves	moving	heat	from	one	
place	to	another	by	the	motion	of	gas	or	liquid	across	the	heated	surface.	Although 	we	are	
not	always	aware	of	it,	the	air	around	us	is	in	constant	 motion.	As	it	circulates	 around	us,	
passing	over	the	skin,	it	sweeps	away	the	air	molecules	 that	have	been	warmed	 by	their	
contact	with	the	skin.	The	greater	the	movement 	of	the	air	or	liquid,	such	as	water,	the	
greater	the	rate	of	heat	dissipation 	by	convection. 	For	example, 	cycling	at	high	speeds	
would	improve	 convective	 cooling	when	compared	 to	cycling	at	slow	speeds	or	running. 	
Swimming	 in	cool	water	also	results	in	convective	 heat	loss.	In	fact,	the	water’s	effectiveness 	
in	cooling	is	about	25	times	greater	than	that	of	air	at	the	same	temperature.
Evaporation
In	evaporation ,	heat	is	transferred	 from	the	body	to	water	on	the	surface	of	the	skin.	
When	this	water	gains	sufficient	 heat,	it	is	then	converted	 into	a	gas	or	water	vapor,	
taking	the	heat	away	from	the	body.	Evaporation	 accounts	 for	about	80	percent	of	the	
total	heat	loss	during	exercise,	 but	for	only	20	to	25	percent	of	body	heat	loss	at	rest.	
Some	evaporation	 occurs	without	our	being	aware	of	it.	This	is	referred	 to	as	insensible	
water	loss	and	happens	 wherever	 body	fluid	is	brought	 into	contact	with	the	external	
environment,	 such	as	in	the	lungs,	the	lining	of	the	mouth,	and	the	skin.	Insensible	
water	loss	removes	 about	10	percent	of	the	total	metabolic	 heat	produced	 by	the	body.	
This	heat-	loss	mechanism	 is	relatively	 constant,	 so	when	the	body	needs	to	lose	more	
heat	such	as	during	exercise,	 it	becomes	 insufficient.	 Instead,	 as	body	temperature	
increases,	 sweat	production	 increases.	 As	sweat	reaches	the	skin,	it	is	converted	 from	a	
liquid	into	a	vapor	by	heat	from	the	skin.	Therefore,	 sweat	evaporation	 becomes	 increas-
ingly	important	 as	body	temperature	 increases.	 Each	liter	of	sweat	that	vaporizes	 trans-
fers	2400	 kJ	(580	kcal)	of	heat	energy	from	the	body	to	the	environment.
	 The	relative	contributions	 of	each	of	the	four	heat	loss	mechanisms	 are	summarized	
in	Table	16.1.	The	values	are	simple	averages,	 because	individual	 metabolic	 heat	produc-
tion	varies	with	body	size,	body	composition,	 and	environmental	 conditions,	 such	as	air	
current,	 humidity,	 and	sun	exposure.	 This	table 	depicts 	some	interesting	 observations.	
For	example,	 during	exercise	 at	moderate	 to	high	intensity,	 heat	loss	always	lags	heat	
production.	 As	intensity	 of	exercise	 increases,	 the	body	will	rely	more	on	evaporative	
heat	loss	in	its	effort	to	maintain	a	thermal	balance.

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		413
Sweat rate
Evaporation	 is	our	major	defense	against	overheating	 during	exercise,	 and	this	is	espe-
cially	the	case	when	the	environmental	 temperature	 rises.	For	example,	 evaporation	 of	
sweat	can	account	 for	as	much	as	70	percent	of	total	heat	loss	when	exercising	 in	an	
ambient	 temperature	 of	30°C	(86°F	).	During	exercise,	 when	body	temperature	 rises	
above	normal,	 the	nervous	 system	stimulates	 sweat	glands	to	secrete	sweat	onto	the	
surface	of	the	skin.	As	sweat	evaporates,	 heat	is	lost	to	the	environment,	 which	in	turn	
lowers	skin	temperature.	 It	has	been	estimated	 that	the	sweat	rate	during	exercise	 has	to	
be	at	least	1.6	L	h–1	if	all	the	heat	produced	 is	to	be	dissipated	 by	evaporative	 heat	loss	
alone.	In	fact,	a	much	higher	sweat	rate	(~2	L	h–1)	may	be	required	 because	some	of	the	
sweat	rolls	off	the	skin,	which	has	virtually	no	cooling	effect.	If	we	assume	that	2	liters	of	
sweat	were	lost,	than	this	individual	 would	have	lost	2	kg	(4.4	lb)	of	body	fluids	during	a	
1-hour	run;	1	liter	of	sweat	weighs	1	 kg	or	2.2	 lb.
	 Sweat	 rate	can	vary	considerably	 between	 individuals.	 Some	of	the	most	important	
non-	hereditary	 factors	that	determine	 maximal	 sweat	rates	include	age,	sport,	climate,	
acclimatization,	 hydration	 status,	and	perhaps	 body	fat	content.	 A	common	 estimate	 of	
sweat	during	athletic	competition	 is	1–2	L	h–1,	but	a	rate	of	2–3	L	h–1 or more may also 
occur.	In	addition,	 larger	individuals	 would	have	higher	maximal	 sweat	rates	during	a	
given	exercise	task	than	would	smaller	individuals.
Factors influencing sweat evaporation
Evaporation	 of	sweat	from	the	skin	is	dependent	 on	three	factors:	(1)	the	temperature	
and	relative	humidity;	 (2)	the	convective	 current	around	the	body,	and	(3)	the	amount	
of	skin	surface	exposed	 to	the	environment	 (Nadel	1979).	At	high	environmental	 tem-
peratures,	 relative	humidity	 is	the	most	important	 factor	in	determining	 the	rate	of	evap-
orative	heat	loss.	 Relative humidity 	refers	to	the	percentage	 of	water	in	ambient	 air	at	a	
particular	 temperature	 compared	 with	the	total	quantity	 of	moisture	 that	air	can	carry.	
High	relative	humidity	 reduces	 the	rate	of	evaporation.	 This	is	because	 evaporation	
occurs	due	to	a	vapor	pressure	 gradient.	 That	is,	in	order	for	evaporative	 cooling	to	
occur	during	exercise,	 the	vapor	pressure	 on	the	skin	must	be	greater	than	the	vapor	
pressure	 in	the	air.	At	any	given	temperature,	 a	rise	in	relative	humidity	 results	in	
increased	 vapor	pressure.	 Practically	 speaking,	 this	means	that	less	evaporative	 cooling	
occurs	during	exercise	 on	a	hot/humid	 day.	When	this	occurs,	a	greater	sweat	rate	is	
induced,	 and	individuals	 will	dehydrate	 more	rapidly.	This	dehydration	 poses	further	
problems	 for	the	athlete	because	 progressive	 dehydration	 impairs	the	ability	to	sweat	
and,	consequently,	 to	thermoregulate.	 Sweat	does	not	cool	the	skin;	rather,	skin	cooling	
occurs	only	when	sweat	evaporates.Table 16.1 		Illustration	 of	heat	production	 and	heat	loss	at	rest	and	during	exercise	 of	varying	
intensities
Rest Light-intensity 
exerciseModerate-
intensity exerciseHigh-intensity 
exercise
Heat	production	(kcal	hr–1) 80200 350 	650
Total	heat	loss	(kcal/hr) 80200 300 	450
Heat	balance	(kcal	hr–1)  0  0 +50 +200
Evaporative	heat	loss	(kcal	hr–1)	 25  90 170 	350
Evaporative	heat	loss/total	heat	loss	(%) 31	45 	57 	78

414		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
	 The	amount	 of	skin	surface	exposed	 to	the	environment	 is	another	 important	 con-
sideration.	 This	factor	may	be	best	explained	by	using	the	 example	 of	American	football.	
Football	 uniform	 and	equipment	 present	a	considerable	 barrier	to	heat	dissipation.	 This	
can	blunt	not	only	evaporative	 heat	loss,	but	also	heat	loss	through	 radiation	 and	convec-
tion.	Even	with	loose-	fitting	porous	jerseys,	the	wrappings,	 padding,	 helmet,	and	other	
objects	of	armor	effectively	 seal	off	nearly	50	percent	 of	the	body’s	surface	from	the	
benefits	 of	evaporative	 cooling,	 not	to	mention	 the	heat	stress	from	a	hot	artificial	
playing	surface.	 Heat	load	can	increase	 even	further	for	those	who	are	larger	in	size,	
such	as	offensive	 and	defensive	 linemen.	 This	is	because	 they	possess	a	smaller	body	
surface	area-	to-body	mass	ratio	and	a	higher	percent	 body	fat	than	players	in	other	
positions.
Role of circulation in heat dissipation
The	circulatory	 system	serves	as	the	“driving	 force”	to	maintain	 thermal	 balance.	 In	hot	
weather,	heart	 rate	and	blood	flow	from	the	heart	increases	while	 superficial	 arterial	and	
venous	blood-	vessels	dilate	to	divert	warm	blood	to	the	body’s	shell.	This	manifests	 as	a	
flushed	or	reddened	 face	on	a	hot	day	or	during	vigorous	 exercise.	 Under	normal	con-
dition,	skin	receives	no	more	than	10	percent	of	cardiac	output.	However,	 with	extreme	
heat	stress,	as	much	as	25	percent	of	the	cardiac	output	passes	through	 the	skin,	raising	
skin	temperature	 that	can	facilitate	 heat	loss	via	radiation.	 The	down	side	of	this	circula-
tory	adjustment	 is	that	it	may	hamper	blood	and	oxygen	supply	to	the	working	 muscle	as	
well	as	possibly	 reducing	 stroke volume ,	the	amount	 of	blood	ejected	by	the	heart	per	
beat,	and	increasing	 heart	rate.	To	state	it	simply:	when	exercising	 in	the	heat,	skin	and	
working	muscle	will	compete	for	blood.
Regulation of fluid and electrolyte balance in the body
The	three	main	organs	that	regulate	 fluid	and	electrolyte	 balance	 are	the	brain,	the	
adrenal	glands,	and	the	kidneys.	 These	three	organs	work	together	 via	a	negative	 feed-
back	manner	in	making	sure	that	the	body’s	fluid	and	electrolytes	 remain	balanced.	 For	
example,	 a	decrease	 in	fluid	volume	triggers	 thirst	sensation	 in	the	hypothalamus	 and	
causes	the	posterior	 pituitary	 gland	to	release	antidiuretic	 hormones,	 resulting	 in	the	
kidneys	retaining	 water.	On	the	other	hand,	a	decrease	 in	blood	sodium	concentration	
stimulates	 the	adrenal	cortex	to	secrete	the	hormone	 aldosterone,	 which	instructs	 the	
kidneys	to	retain	more	sodium.
Role of hypothalamus
A	constant	 supply	of	water	without	excess	or	deficiency	 is	needed	in	the	body.	Water	
intake	must	be	equal	to	water	loss	in	order	to	maintain	 water	balance.	 The	desire	to	
drink,	or	thirst,	is	triggered	 by	the	thirst	center	in	the	brain,	particularly	 the	hypothala -
mus,	when	it	senses	a	decrease	 in	blood	volume	and	an	increase	 in	the	concentration	 of	
dissolved	 substances	 (i.e.,	sodium)	 in	the	blood.	A	decrease	 in	the	amount	 of	water	in	
the	blood	also	decreases	 saliva	secretion	 resulting	 in	a	dry	mouth.	Together,	 signals	from	
the	brain	and	a	dry	mouth	motivate	the	consumption	of	fluid.
	 Thirst	 drives	a	person	to	seek	water,	but	it	often	lags	behind	the	body’s	needs.	For	
example,	 it	has	been	found	that	athletes	exercising	 in	hot	weather	lose	water	rapidly	but	
do	not	experience	 intense	thirst	until	they	have	lost	so	much	body	water	that	their	per-
formance	 is	compromised.	 For	this	reason,	athletes	should	carefully	 monitor	 fluid	status	
–	they	should	weigh	themselves	 before	and	after	training	sessions	to	determine	their	rate	

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		415
of	water	loss	and,	thus,	their	water	needs.	A	person	suffering	 fever,	vomiting,	 or	diarrhea	
may	also	be	losing	water	rapidly	and	the	thirst	mechanism	 may	not	be	adequate	 to	
replace	the	fluid.	In	children	 and	the	elderly,	the	thirst	mechanism	 can	also	become	less	
sensitive	 or	unreliable,	 so	an	individual	 may	not	be	thirsty	even	though	body	water	is	
depleted.	 Even	when	a	person	does	respond	 to	thirst,	the	amount	of	fluid	consumed	 can	
be	insufficient	 to	replace	the	water	loss	because	 thirst	is	quenched	 almost	as	soon	as	
fluid	is	consumed	and	long	before	water	balance	is	restored.
Condition of dehydration
When	too	much	water	is	lost	from	the	body	and	not	replaced,	 dehydration 	or	hypohy-
dration	develops.	 Dehydration	 occurs	when	the	loss	of	body	water	is	great	enough	for	
blood	volume	to	decrease,	 thereby	reducing	 the	ability	to	deliver	oxygen	and	nutrients	
to	the	cells	and	to	remove	waste	products.	 A	first	sign	of	dehydration	 is	thirst,	the	signal	
that	the	body	has	already	lost	some	fluid.	If	a	person	is	unable	to	obtain	fluid	or,	as	in	
many	elderly	people,	fails	to	perceive	 the	thirst	message,	 the	symptoms	 of	dehydration	
may	progress	 rapidly	from	thirst	to	weakness,	 exhaustion,	 and	delirium,	 and	end	in	
death	if	not	corrected.	 Early	symptoms	 of	dehydration	 (i.e.,	a	body	water	loss	of	~2	
percent	of	body	weight)	include	headache,	 fatigue,	loss	of	appetite,	 dry	eyes	and	mouth,	
and	dark-	colored	urine.	A	loss	of	5	to	6	percent	of	body	water	may	cause	nausea	and	dif-
ficulty	concentrating.	 Confusion	 and	disorientation	 may	occur	when	water	loss	
approaches	 7	to	8	percent.	 A	loss	of	about	9	to	10	percent	may	result	in	exhaustion,	 col-
lapse,	and	death	( Table	16.2).
Action of the kidneys
Once	the	body	experiences	 a	shortage	 of	available	 water,	it	increases	 fluid	conservation.	
Two	hormones	 that	participate	 in	this	process	are	the	anti- diuretic hormone  and aldos-
terone.	The	posterior	 pituitary	 gland	releases	 the	anti-	diuretic	 hormone	 to	force	the	
kidneys	to	conserve	 water	and	electrolytes.	 The	kidneys	respond	 by	reducing	 urine	flow.	
At	the	same	time,	as	fluid	volume	decreases	 in	the	bloodstream,	 blood	pressure	 falls.	
This	eventually	 triggers	 the	release	of	the	hormone	 aldosterone,	 which	signals	the	
Table 16.2 	Signs	and	symptoms	of	dehydration
Body weight loss (%) Symptoms
1–2 Thirst,	fatigue,	weakness,	discomfort,	loss	of	appetite,	impaired	physical	
and	cognitive	performance
3–4 Decreasing	blood	volume	and	urine	output,	dry	mouth,	flushed	skin,	
impatient,	nausea,	apathy,	declining	physical	performance	
5–6 Headache,	difficulty	concentrating,	irritability,	impaired	temperature	
regulation,	increased	pulse	and	breathing	rate,	sleepiness
7–8 Dizziness,	labored	breathing	with	exertion,	loss	of	balance,	
disorientation,	mental	confusion,	indistinct	speech	
9–10 Muscle	spasm,	impaired	circulation,	hypotension,	delirium,	renal	
failure,	exhaustion,	collapse
Note
The	onset	and	severity	of	symptoms	 at	various	percentages	 of	body	weight	lost	depend	on	the	intensity	 of	
the	activity,	fitness	level,	degree	of	acclimation,	and	environmental	temperature	and	humidity

416		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
kidneys	to	retain	more	sodium	and,	in	turn,	more	water.	Alcohol	inhibits	the	action	of	
the	anti-	diuretic	hormone.	 One	reason	people	feel	so	weak	the	day	after	heavy	drinking	
is	that	they	are	dehydrated.	 Even	though	they	may	have	consumed	 a	lot	of	liquid	in	their	
drinks,	they	have	lost	even	more	liquid	because	 alcohol	has	inhibited	 the	anti-	diuretic	
hormone.	 Despite	mechanisms	 that	work	to	reduce	water	loss	via	the	kidneys,	 fluid	con-
tinues	to	be	lost	via	the	feces,	skin,	and	lungs.	Those	losses	must	be	replaced.	 In	addi-
tion,	there	is	a	limit	to	how	concentrated	 urine	can	become.	 Eventually,	 if	fluid	is	not	
consumed,	 the	body	can	still	suffer	the	ill-	effects	of	dehydration	 despite	the	action	of	
these	two	regulatory	hormones.
	 Water	 intoxication,	 on	the	other	hand,	is	rare	but	may	occur	with	excessive	 water	
ingestion	 and	kidney	disorders	 that	reduce	urine	production.	 The	symptoms	 may	
include	confusion,	 convulsions,	 and	even	death	in	extreme	 cases.	Excessive	 water	inges-
tion	contributing	 to	this	dangerous	 condition	 is	known	as	hyponatremia .	This	water	
intoxication	 is	mainly	seen	in	endurance	 athletes	 and	has	been	associated	 with	symp-
toms	such	as	nausea	and	vomiting,	 headache,	 confusion,	 muscle	weakness	 or	cramps,	
and,	if	severe,	seizure	and	coma.
Effect of dehydration on exercise performance
As	discussed	 earlier,	dehydration	 is	defined	as	the	excessive	 loss	of	body	fluid.	It	reflects	
an	imbalance	 that	fluid	intake	does	not	replenish	 water	loss	from	the	normally	 hydrated	
state.	Dehydration	 is	one	of	the	most	significant	 nutritional	 factors	that	can	reduce	phys-
ical	performance.	 All	too	often,	endurance	 athletes	and	athletes	participating	 in	sports	
associated	 with	heavy	sweating,	 such	as	soccer,	field	hockey,	lacrosse,	 tennis,	and	Ameri-
can	football,	 experience	 at	least	some	level	of	dehydration	 during	training	 and	competi-
tions.	Other	athletes	 such	as	wrestlers,	 boxers,	body	builders,	 and	fitness	competitors	
sometimes	 deliberately	 restrict	their	fluid	consumption	 prior	to	a	competition	 to	qualify	
for	a	lower	weight	category	 or	to	enhance	 aesthetic	 presentation.	 This	latter	approach	 is	
referred	 to	as	voluntary	 dehydration,	 and	is	generally	 discouraged	 due	to	its	potential	 to	
cause	health	problems	(Oppliger	 et al.	1996).
Voluntary dehydration
Athletes	 participating	 in	sports	such	as	wrestling,	 lightweight	 crew,	judo,	and	boxing	
often	attempt	to	dehydrate	 in	order	to	“make	weight”	and	compete	 within	a	lower	weight	
class.	The	term	“hypohydration”	 is	often	used	to	describe	 voluntary	 efforts	to	reduce	
body	water	levels.	Some	of	the	commonly	 used	techniques	 for	voluntary	 dehydration	
include	exercise-	 induced	 sweating,	 thermal-	induced	 sweating	 such	as	the	use	of	saunas,	
use	of	diuretics	 to	increase	 urine	losses,	and	reduced	 intake	of	fluids	and	foods.	As	men-
tioned	earlier,	reduction	 of	body	water	by	1	liter	is	equivalent	 to	1	kg	(2.2	lb).	These	
athletes	 then	attempt	 to	rehydrate	 between	 the	weigh-	in	qualification	 and	the	actual	
competition	in	order	to	“size	up.”
	 Much	 of	the	research	 with	voluntary	 dehydration	 has	been	conducted	 with	wrestlers.	
Evaluation	 criteria	have	emphasized	 factors	such	as	muscular	 strength,	 power,	and	
endurance	 and	anaerobic	 activities	 designed	 to	mimic	wrestling.	 Controversies	 seem	to	
exist	as	to	the	impact	of	voluntary	 dehydration	 upon	muscular	 strength	 and	endurance	
and	ultra-	short-term	 performance.	 Many	studies	conducted	 in	this	regard	suggest	that	
hypohydration,	 even	up	to	levels	of	8	percent	of	body	weight,	will	not	affect	physical	per-
formance	 in	events	involving	 brief,	intense	muscular	 effort.	For	example,	 Greiw	 et al.	
(1998)	reported	 that	4	percent	 reduction	 in	body	weight	had	no	effect	on	isometric	
muscle	strength	 or	endurance.	 On	the	other	hand,	Schoffstall	 et al.	(2001)	reported	 that	

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		417
dehydration	 resulting	 in	approximately	 1.5	percent	loss	of	body	mass	adversely	 affected	
bench	press	1-repetition	 maximum	 performance,	 but	these	adverse	effects	seem	to	dis-
appear	after	a	2-hour	rest	period	and	water	consumption.	 The	adverse	 effects	on	
strength	 are	not	consistent,	 but	anaerobic	 tasks	lasting	longer	than	20	seconds	have	been	
impaired	 when	subjects	were	hypohydrated.	 For	example,	 Montain	 et al.	(1998)	observed	
a	15	percent	reduction	 in	time	of	repeated	 knee	extension	 to	exhaustion	 following	 a	4	
percent	decrease	 in	body	weight	as	water.	This	reduced	 performance	 through	 hypohy-
dration	was	attributed	 to	a	loss	of	potassium	 from	muscle	and	higher	muscle	temper-
ature	during	exercise.
	 Research	 studies	are	more	consistent	 in	demonstrating	 a	negative	 impact	of	voluntary	
dehydration	 upon	aerobic,	 endurance	 performance.	 Dehydration	 induced	 by	hypohy-
dration	practices	 may	have	a	different	 influence	 on	physical	 performance	 than	involun-
tary	or	exercise-	 induced	 dehydration	 in	that	the	effects	of	dehydration	 may	be	
experienced	 at	the	onset	of	physical	 activity.	This	can	result	in	reduced	 performance	
even	in	shorter	duration	 sports.	It	was	reported	 that	when	runners	 performed	 1.5-,	5-,	
and	10-km	runs	in	either	a	well-	hydrated	 state	or	a	partially	 hypohydrated	 state	(2	
percent	reduction	 in	body	weight	as	water),	their	running	 speed	was	significantly	 lower	
at	distances	 of	5-	and	10-km,	and	a	similar	trend	was	observed	 during	a	1.5-km	run	
(Sawka	and	Pandolf	1990).	Maxwell	 et al.	(1999)	also	reported	 a	reduction	 in	perform-
ance	in	20-second	sprinting	bouts	separated	by	100	seconds	of	rest	in	a	dehydrated	state.
	 In	addition	 to	a	potential	 to	reduce	physical	 performance,	 hypohydration	 can	influ-
ence	the	general	 health	of	individuals.	 As	involuntary	 dehydration,	 hypohydration-	
induced	 fluid	loss	may	compromise	 thermal	 regulation	 during	exercise	 in	hot	
environments	 and	causes	cardiovascular	 complications.	 Deaths	linked	to	hypohydration	
have	been	reported	 in	wrestlers	 who	experienced	 kidney	and	heart	failure	while	working	
out	in	a	hot	environment	 and	being	dehydrated	 (Oppliger	 et al.	1996).	Coaches	 and	
athletes	should	be	well	educated	 about	the	dangers	and	symptoms	 of	severe	dehydration	
and	electrolyte	imbalances.
Involuntary or exercise- induced dehydration
Body	water	loss	is	rapid	during	exercise	 in	the	heat	and	is	often	not	matched	 by	an	ath-
lete’s	fluid	consumption.	 This	involuntary	 dehydration	 is	most	common	 during	pro-
longed	 physical	 activity,	 particularly	 under	warm,	humid	 conditions.	 Exercise	
performance	 is	impaired	 when	an	individual	 is	dehydrated	 by	as	little	as	2	percent	 of	
body	weight.	Losses	in	excess	of	5	percent	of	body	weight	can	decrease	 the	capacity	 for	
work	by	about	30	percent	(Maughan	 1991,	Sawka	and	Pandolf	1990).	Even	in	cool	labo-
ratory	conditions,	 maximal	 aerobic	power	(VO2max)	decreases	 by	about	5	percent	when	
subjects	experience	 fluid	losses	equivalent	 to	3	percent	of	body	mass	or	more	(Pichan	 et 
al.	1988).	In	hot	conditions,	 similar	water	deficits	can	cause	a	greater	decrease	 in	
VO2max.	The	dehydration-	 induced	 impairment	 in	exercise	 performance	 is	much	more	
likely	in	hot	environments	 than	in	cool	conditions,	 which	implies	that	altered	thermo-
regulation	 is	an	important	 factor	responsible	 for	the	reduced	 exercise	 performance	
associated	with	dehydration.
	 The	negative	 impact	of	dehydration	 upon	endurance	 performance	 seems	to	also	
occur	when	exercise	 is	performed	 at	lower	intensities.	 One	study	investigated	 the	endur-
ance	capacity	 of	eight	subjects	 to	perform	 treadmill	 walking	at	25	percent	VO2max for 
140	minutes	 in	very	hot	and	dry	conditions	 (49°C	or	120°F	and	20	percent	 relative	
humidity)	 (Sawka	 et al.	1985).	All	subjects	were	able	to	complete	 140	minutes	 of	walking	
when	euhydrated	 and	3	percent	dehydrated.	 But	when	dehydrated	 by	7	percent,	 six sub-
jects	stopped	 walking	after	an	average	of	only	64	minutes.	 Therefore,	 even	for	relatively	

418		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
mild	exercise,	 dehydration	 can	bring	about	early	fatigue	from	heat	stress.	In	another	
study,	this	same	research	 group	had	subjects	walk	to	exhaustion	 at	47	percent	VO2max 
in	the	same	environmental	 conditions	 as	their	previous	 study	(Sawka	 et al.	1992).	Com-
parisons	 were	made	between	 subjects	 who	were	euhydrated	 and	those	who	were	dehy-
drated	to	a	loss	of	8	percent	of	total	body	water.	Dehydration	 reduced	 endurance	 time	
from	121	minutes	 to	55	minutes.	 In	this	study,	it	was	also	found	that	rectal	temperature	
at	exhaustion	 was	about	0.4°C	(0.7°F	)	lower	in	the	dehydration	 state,	which	suggests	 that	
dehydration	may	reduce	the	core	temperature	a	person	can	tolerate.
	 The	reasons	dehydration 	has	an	adverse	effect	on	exercise	performance 	may	be	
attributed	 mainly	to	factors	that	are	cardiovascular	 and	metabolic	 in	origin.	Fluid	flux	
from	the	plasma	during	the	early	phase	of	endurance	 exercise	 is	important	 to	support	
efficient	 sweating.	 If	sweating	 is	mild	or	if	fluid	consumption	 is	adequate,	 plasma	
volume	can	be	stabilized	 during	exercise.	 However,	 when	sweating	 is	heavy	and	is	
uncompensated 	by	fluid	consumption, 	plasma	volume	will	decrease. 	This	can	reduce	
stroke	volume.	 As	a	result,	heart	rate	is	accelerated	 in	order	to	maintain	 a	given	
cardiac	output.	When	plasma	is	further	reduced,	 heart	rate	maximizes	 and	cardiac	
output	peaks.	Cardiac	 output	begins	to	decrease	 with	further	reductions	 in	plasma	
volume.
	 Hence,	 a	reduced	 maximal	 cardiac	output	(i.e.,	the	highest	pumping	 capacity	 of	
the	heart	that	can	be	achieved	 during	exercise)	 is	the	most	likely	physiological	 mech-
anism	by	which	dehydration	 decreases	 a	person’s	 VO2max	and	impairs	work	capacity	
in	fatiguing 	exercise	of	an	incremental 	nature,	as	reported 	in	previous 	studies.	This	is	
because	 reduced	 cardiac	 output	will	deliver	less	blood	and	nutrients	 to	working	
muscle.	When	blood	flow	to	working	 muscle	is	decreased,	 there	is	also	reduced	 ability	
to	transport	 heat	and	waste	products	 such	as	lactic	acid	away	from	the	muscle.	In	addi-
tion	to	its	negative	 impact	upon	stroke	volume	and	heart	rate,	a	decreased	 plasma	
volume	also	increases	 blood	thickness	 (viscosity),	 which	is	a	measure	 of	internal	 resist-
ance	to	blood	flow.	As	part	of	thermoregulation	 discussed	 earlier,	there	could	be	a	
further	reduction 	in	blood	flow	to	working	muscle	due	to	the	dilation	of	skin	blood-	
vessels	aimed	to	dissipate	heat.
	 Dehydration	 can	reduce	blood	flow	to	working	 muscle	and	influence	 substrate	 uti-
lization.	 This	may	lead	to	an	increased	 use	of	carbohydrate	 and	reduced	 use	of	fat.	
The	larger	rise	in	core	temperature	 during	exercise	 in	the	dehydrated	 state	is	associ-
ated	with	a	greater	catecholamine	 response,	 which	may	lead	to	increased	 rates	of	gly-
cogen	breakdown.	 Together,	 these	responses	 will	in	turn	increase	 the	production	 of	
lactic	acid	and	at	the	same	time	exhaust	 glycogen	 stores	more	quickly.	 González-
Alonso	 et al.	(1999)	evaluated	 cyclists	riding	at	60	percent	 VO2max	on	the	two	dif-
ferent	occasions,	 once	while	they	were	provided	 adequate	 fluid	to	prevent	dehydration 	
and	another	 time	when	they	were	dehydrated	 that	resulted	 in	a	reduction	 in	body	
weight	by	3.9	percent.	When	the	cyclists	were	not	provided 	with	fluids,	blood	flow	to	
their	legs	was	lower	and	glycogen	 breakdown	 and	lactate	content	 were	greater	during	
later	stages	of	exercise	 in	comparison	 to	when	they	were	provided	 with	sufficient 	
fluids.
	 Other	 factors	associated	 with	dehydration	 may	also	contribute	 to	a	decrement	 in	exer-
cise	performance.	 Disturbed	 fluid	and	electrolyte	 balance	in	the	muscle	cells	may	affect	
neuromuscular	 function	 and	the	energy	transformation	 process,	 while	adverse	effects	of	
hyperthermia	 on	mental	processes	 may	contribute	 to	central	fatigue.	 It	has	been	
reported	 that	1	to	2	percent	 dehydration	 can	significantly	 impair	cognitive	 function	
(Armstrong	 and	Epstein	1999).	Dehydration	 can	also	cause	gastrointestinal	 symptoms,	
such	as	nausea,	vomiting,	 bloating,	 cramps,	diarrhea,	 and	bleeding,	 many	of	which	could	
impair	performance	if	severe	enough.

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		419
Fluid replacement strategies
Adequate	 fluid	replacement	 during	exercise	 sustains	 the	potential	 for	evaporative	
cooling	and	helps	maintain	 or	restore	plasma	volume	to	near	pre-	exercise	 levels.	As	com-
pared	to	dehydration,	 adequate	 hydration	 will	help	decrease	 fluid	loss,	reduce	cardiovas -
cular	strain,	enhance	 performance,	 and	prevent	 heat-	related	illness.	For	decades,	
hydration	 status	was	not	recognized	 as	important	 during	activity.	Some	coaches	 and	
athletes	still	believe	water	consumption	 hinders	performance.	 Today,	hydration	 status	is	
viewed	as	a	crucial	component	of	successful	performance.
General hydration and rehydration guidelines
Athletes	 must	be	fully	hydrated	 before	they	train	or	compete	 because	 the	body	cannot	
adapt	to	dehydration.	 An	adequately	 hydrated	 state	can	be	assured	by	a	high	fluid	intake	
in	the	last	few	days	before	a	competition.	 A	useful	check	is	to	observe	the	volume	and	
color	of	the	urine.	Voiding	 small	volumes	 of	dark-	yellow	urine	with	a	strong	odor	pro-
vides	a	qualitative	 indication	 of	inadequate	 hydration.	 Well-	hydrated	 individuals	 typically	
produce	 urine	in	large	volumes,	 light	in	color,	and	without	a	strong	smell.	Observation	
of	a	urine	sample	cannot	be	reliably	used	if	the	athlete	is	taking	vitamin	supplements,	 as	
some	excreted	 water-	soluble	B	vitamins	 add	a	yellowish	 hue	to	the	urine.	A	more	defi-
nite indication of hydration status is obtained by measuring urine osmolality .	Osmolarity	
is	the	measure	 of	solute	concentration	 of	a	solution.	 A	urine	osmolality	 of	over	
900	mOsmol/kg	 indicates	 that	the	athlete	is	relatively	 dehydrated,	 whereas	 values	of	100	
to	300	mOsmol/kg	 indicate	 that	the	athlete	is	well	hydrated.	 Measuring	 the	athlete’s	
body	weight	after	the	rising	and	voiding	each	morning	 may	also	prove	useful.	Some	
coaches	require	athletes	to	weigh	in	before	and	after	practice	 to	monitor	 fluid	balance.	
Remember:	 each	1	kg	(2.2	lb.)	weight	loss	represents	 1	L	(35	fl	oz)	of	dehydration.	 A	
sudden	drop	in	body	mass	on	any	given	day	is	likely	to	indicate	dehydration.
	 Athletes	 should	be	urged	to	rehydrate	 themselves	 because	 depending	 on	their	own	
thirst	sensation	 to	trigger	water	intake	is	not	reliable.	 Ideally,	athletes	should	consume	
enough	 fluids	to	make	body	weight	remain	constant	 before	and	after	exercise.	 Older	
individuals	 generally	 require	a	longer	time	to	achieve	rehydration	 after	dehydration	
(Kenney	 and	Chiu	2001).	If	rehydration	 were	left	entirely	to	a	person’s	 thirst,	it	could	
take	several	days	after	severe	dehydration	 to	re-	establish	 the	fluid	balance.	 Therefore,	
athletes	 should	become	 accustomed	 to	consuming	 fluid	at	regular	intervals	 with	and	
without	thirst	during	training	 sessions	 so	that	they	do	not	develop	 discomfort	 during	
competitions.	 It	is	recommended	 that	approximately	 500	ml	fluid	be	consumed	 2	hours	
before	exercise,	 followed	 by	another	500	ml	about	15	minutes	 before	prolonged	 exercise	
(Association;	 Dietitians	 of	Canada;	 American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	 2009).	In	a	hot	
and	humid	environment,	 frequent	 consumption	 (every	15	to	20	minutes)	 of	small	
amounts	 (120	to	180	ml)	of	fluid	is	recommended	 during	exercise	 (American	 Dietetic	
Association;	Dietitians	of	Canada;	American	College	of	Sports	Medicine	2009).
	 Until	 recently,	 athletes	were	generally	 encouraged	 to	consume	 a	volume	of	fluid	equi-
valent	to	their	sweat	loss	incurred	during	exercise	to	adequately 	rehydrate 	in	the	post-	
exercise	recovery	 period.	In	other	words,	they	were	to	consume	 about	1	L	of	fluid	for	every	
kg	lost	during	exercise.	 However,	 this	amount	is	considered	 insufficient	 because	it	does	not	
take	into	account	the	urine	loss	associated	 with	beverage	 consumption.	 In	this	context,	it	is	
suggested	 that	ingestion	 of	150	percent	or	more	of	weight	loss	(i.e.,	consume	 1.5	L	of	fluid	
for	every	kg	lost)	during	recovery	would	be	adequate 	to	achieve	a	desirable 	hydration 	status	
following	exercise	(Sawka	 et al.	2007,	Shirreffs	and	Maughan	2000).	This	50	 percent	“extra” 	
water	accounts	for	that	portion	of	ingested	water	lost	in	urine.

420		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
Composition of replacement fluid
In	the	1960s,	Robert	Code,	a	scientist/physician	 working	 at	the	University	 of	Florida,	
developed	 an	oral	fluid	replacement	 that	was	designed	 for	athletes	to	restore	some	of	
the	nutrients	 lost	in	sweat.	This	product	 was	eventually	 marketed	 as	Gatorade	 and	was	
the	first	of	many	 glucose electrolyte solutions 	and	later,	 glucose polymer solutions to 
appear	as	a	sports	drink	on	the	market.	The	glucose	electrolyte	 solutions	 were	the	first	
commercial	 fluid	replacement	 preparations	 designed	 to	replace	fluid	and	carbohydrate.	
Common	 brands	today	include	All-	Sport,	Gatorade,	 and	PowerAde.	 Other	than	water,	
the	major	ingredients	 in	these	solutions	 are	carbohydrates	 usually	in	various	combina -
tions	of	glucose,	 glucose	polymers,	 sucrose,	 or	fructose,	 and	some	of	the	major	electro-
lytes.	The	sugar	content	 ranges	from	5	to	10	percent	 depending	 on	the	brand.	The	
major	electrolytes	 include	sodium,	 chloride,	 potassium,	 and	phosphorous.	 Some	brands	
may	also	include	other	substances	 such	as	vitamin	Bs,	vitamin	C,	calcium,	 magnesium,	
branched-	 chain	amino	acids,	caffeine,	 as	well	as	artificial	 coloring	 and	flavoring	 (Table 	
16.3).	Electrolytes	 such	as	sodium,	 chloride,	 and	potassium	 play	a	critical	role	in	the	
rehydration	 process.	 It	has	been	demonstrated	 that	plasma	volume	can	be	fully	restored	
if	beverages	 contain	sufficient	 sodium	chloride	 (i.e.,	450	mg	L–1)	(Nose	 et al.	1988).	A	
small	amount	of	potassium	 also	enhances	 water	retention	 in	the	intracellular	 space	and	
may	diminish	extra	potassium	loss	that	results	from	sodium	retention	by	the	kidneys.
	 Obviously,	 one	of	the	goals	of	researchers	 has	been	to	develop	 a	fluid	that	will	help	
replace	carbohydrate	 during	exercise	 in	the	heat	without	sacrificing	 water	absorption.	 In	
general,	 as	osmolarity	 or	solute	concentration	 of	a	solution	 increases,	 fluid	absorption	
decreases.	 Glucose	 polymer	 solutions	 are	designed	 to	provide	 carbohydrate	 while	
decreasing	 the	osmotic	 concentration	 of	the	solution,	 thus	helping	 with	fluid	absorp-
tion.	 Maltodextrin 	is	a	glucose	polymer	 that	exerts	lesser	osmotic	effects	compared	 with	
glucose,	 and	is	thus	used	in	a	variety	of	sports	drinks	as	the	source	of	carbohydrate.	 It	is	
the	main	ingredient	 in	a	few	commercial	 brands,	such	as	Ultima.	Other	sports	drinks	
combine	 maltodextrins	 with	glucose,	 sucrose,	 and	fructose.	 It	is	believed	 that	sports	
drinks	which	contain	maltodextrins	 will	facilitate	 fluid	absorption	 while	maintaining	 an	
adequate	 carbohydrate	 supply.	Table 	16.3 	compares	 the	compositions	 of	several	com-
mercially	 available	 sports	drinks	that	are	commonly	 chosen	by	athletes	during	training	
and	competition.
	 How	much	carbohydrate	 a	replacement	 fluid	has	can	affect	 gastric emptying ,	which	is	
another	 important	 consideration	 for	effective	 rehydration.	 Fluid	ingestion	 during	exer-
cise	supplies	 exogenous	 fuel	substrate,	 such	as	carbohydrate,	 as	well	as	helping	maintain	
plasma	volume	and	preventing	 dehydration.	 However,	 the	availability	 of	ingested	 fluids	
may	be	limited	by	the	rate	of	gastric	emptying	 or	intestinal	 absorption.	 Gastric	emptying	
refers	to	the	process	by	which	food	leaves	the	stomach	 and	enters	the	duodenum.	 High	
gastric	emptying	 rates	are	advisable	 for	sports	drinks	in	order	to	maximize	 fluid	absorp-
tion.	Gastric	emptying	of	fluids	is	slower	by	the	addition	of	carbohydrate	or	other	macro -
nutrients	 that	increase	 the	osmolarity	 of	the	solution	 ingested.	 Therefore,	 when	glucose	
concentration	 in	the	fluid	ingested	 increases,	 the	rate	of	fluid	volume	delivery	 to	the	
small	intestine	decreases	despite	the	fact	that	glucose	delivery	may	increase.
	 Due	to	the	fact	that	adding	carbohydrate	 to	a	replacement	 fluid	has	the	potential	 to	
hamper	gastric	emptying	 and	thus	fluid	absorption,	 one	should	be	cautious	 in	choosing	
a	sports	drink.	In	cool	environments,	 where	substrate	 provision	 to	maintain	 endurance	
performance	 is	more	important,	 a	concentrated	 solution	 containing	 large	amounts	 of	
glucose	 is	recommended.	 To	avoid	the	limitation	 imposed	 by	the	rate	of	gastric	
emptying,	 the	osmolarity	 of	the	beverage	 should	be	minimized	 by	using	glucose	in	the	
form	of	glucose	polymers.	 The	current	evidence	 suggests	 the	use	of	a	5	to	10	percent	

Table 16.3	Composition	of	commonly	used	carbohydrate	beverages
Beverage Energy (kcal) CHO (g) CHO sources Sodium (mg) Potassium (mg) Caffeine (mg)
Gatorade	(thirst	quencher) 50 14 Sucrose,	glucose,	fructose 110 25 0
Gatorade	(endurance	formula) 50 14 Sucrose,	glucose,	fructose 200 90 0
All	sports	 60 16 HFCS 55 50 0
PowerAde 64 17 HFCS,	maltodextrin 53 32 0
Accelerade	(PacificHealth	Laboratories) 80 14 Sucrose,	fructose,	maltodextrin 130 43 0
Vitamin	water 50 13 Fructose 0 0 0
Coca	Cola 97 27 HFCS 33 0 23
Pepsi 100 27 HFCS,	glucose 25 10 25
Mountain	Dew 110 31 HFCS,	orange	juice	concentrate 50 0 37
Orange	juice 110 27 Sucrose,	fructose,	glucose 15 450 0
Proper	(fitness	water) 10 	3 Sucrose	syrup 35 0 0
Source:	data	gathered	from	product	labels	and	sources	provided	by	manufacturers.	
Note
HFCS	=	High-fructose	corn	syrup.

422		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
solution	 of	multiple	 forms	of	carbohydrate	 including	 glucose	polymers	 and	maltodex -
trin.	When	dehydration	 or	hyperthermia	 is	the	major	threat	to	performance,	 water	
replacement	 is	the	primary	consideration.	 In	this	case,	a	more	diluted	solution	 that	con-
tains	glucose	in	the	form	of	maltodextrin	 is	a	more	appropriate	 choice.	In	very	pro-
longed	exercise	 in	the	heat	with	heavy	sweat	loss,	such	as	ultramarathons,	 electrolyte	
replacement	may	be	essential	to	prevent	heat	injury.
	 Drinking	 plain	water	is	not	a	good	choice	for	rehydration	 unless	it	is	used	in	conjunc-
tion	with	solid	foods.	Drinking	 too	much	plain	water	can	dilute	the	electrolyte	 content	
(mainly	 sodium)	 in	the	blood,	thereby	 decreasing	 plasma	osmolality.	 This	will	then	
stimulate	 urine	production	 and	blunt	the	drive	to	drink,	both	of	which	can	delay	the	
rehydration	 process.	 Maintaining	 a	relatively	 higher	plasma	sodium	concentration	 will	
promote	 the	retention	 of	ingested	 fluids,	making	 body	fluid	balance	 more	quickly	
accomplished.	 Use	of	too	much	plain	water	can	also	increase	 the	risk	of	developing	 a	
condition	of	hyponatremia	or	water	intoxication.
Hyperhydration
Hyperhydration 	refers	to	an	attempt	to	begin	an	exercise	 bout	with	a	slight	surplus	of	
body	water.	The	advantage	of	beginning	exercise	when	hyperhydrated	 is	that	it	will	delay	
or	eliminate	 the	onset	of	hypohydration	 if	one	fails	to	completely	 replace	sweat	loss	
during	exercise.	 This	will	allow	for	a	greater	volume	of	sweat	loss	prior	to	a	reduction	 in	
performance.	 In	addition,	 beginning	 exercise	 with	a	slightly	expanded	 plasma	volume	
may	provide	a	necessary	 buffer	against	detrimental	 reduction	 in	plasma	volume	typically	
experienced	 during	sustained	 vigorous	 activity.	Hyperhydration	 may	benefit	athletes	
during	prolonged	 exercise	 in	a	hot	environment.	 Athletes	 competing	 in	intermittently	
high-	intensity	 sports	for	a	couple	of	hours,	with	less	opportunity	 to	consume	 adequate	
fluids,	may	also	consider	 this	approach.	 The	sports	usually	associated	 with	hyperhydra -
tion	include	distance	 running,	 triathlon,	 soccer,	and	tennis.	Disadvantages	 of	hyperhy-
dration	 include	 increased	 body	weight,	 urine	production,	 and	incidence	 of	
gastrointestinal	 discomfort.	 Therefore,	 the	decision	 to	go	forward	with	the	hyperhydra -
tion	procedure	 must	be	made	based	on	whether	 the	advantages	 of	hyperhydration	 are	
considered	superior	to	its	temporary	disadvantages.
	 Research	 generally	 supports	 the	notion	that	hyperhydration	 reduces	thermal	and	car-
diovascular	 strain	of	exercise	 (Lamb	and	Shehata	 1999).	However,	 there	is	insufficient	
evidence	 to	support	 the	claim	that	pre-	exercise	 hyperhydration	 improves	 exercise	 per-
formance	 (Lamb	and	Shehata	 1999,	Sawka	 et al.	2001).	Hyperhydration	 may	increase	
water	content	 in	the	body,	but	the	effect	was	reported	 to	be	short-	lived.	Much	of	the	
fluid	overload	 is	rapidly	excreted.	 This	could	raise	a	question	 as	to	whether	 water	storage	
is	still	significantly	 higher	at	the	onset	of	a	competition.	 Clearly,	more	research	 is	needed	
to	substantiate	 this	hydration	 approach.	 Pre-	exercise	 hyperhydration	 does	not	replace	
the	need	to	continually	 replenish	 fluid	during	exercise	 because	 during	intense	endur-
ance	exercise	 in	heat	fluid	loss	usually	outpaces	 fluid	intake.	On	the	other	hand,	hyper-
hydration	 is	unnecessary	 when	euhydration	 is	maintained	 during	exercise.	 Obviously,	
the	hyperhydration	 procedure	 to	be	followed	 before	key	races	must	first	have	been	thor-
oughly	tested	during	specific	training	or	low-	 key	races.
	 Traditionally,	 the	fluid	of	choice	for	hyperhydration	 has	been	water,	but	over	the	past	
five	to	six	years	an	increasing	 number	of	athletes	are	choosing	 to	hyperhydrate	 exclusively 	
with	a	glycerol	solution.	 Glycerol	 is	a	three-	carbon	molecule	 formed	mainly	from	carbohy-
drate	and	fat	metabolism.	 Why	glycerol?	 The	kidneys	are	extremely	 efficient	 at	rapidly	
excreting	 the	excess	water	in	water-	induced	 hyperhydration,	 so	the	increase	 in	total	body	
water	is	typically	short-	lived.	But	when	an	athlete	hyperhydrates	 with	glycerol,	 its	osmotic	

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		423
(soaking)	 property	 significantly	 reduces	urine	production	 and	therefore	 increases	 water	
storage.	It	has	been	reported	 that	using	a	glycerol	solution	 can	make	the	hyperhydration 	
period	last	approximately	 twice	as	long	as	using	water.	Proponents	 of	glycerol	argue	that	
because	its	use	allows	an	athlete	to	maintain	 an	enhanced	 fluid	reservoir	 for	a	longer	period	
of	time,	cardiovascular	 and	thermoregulatory	 functions	 will	be	better	preserved	 during	exer-
cise,	thereby	improving	performance.	This	role	of	glycerol	is	also	discussed	in	 Chapter	11.
Overall recommendations
Adequate	 fluid	replacement	 sustains	the	potential	 for	evaporative	 cooling	during	exer-
cise.	Properly	 scheduling	 fluid	replacement	 maintains	 plasma	volume	so	that	circulation	
and	sweating	 operate	 optimally.	 Strictly	following	 an	adequate	 water	replacement	
schedule	 prevents	 dehydration	 and	its	related	consequences,	 and	promotes	 the	health,	
safety,	and	optimal	 performance	 of	people	who	participate	 in	regular	physical	 activity	
and	sports.	The	following	 are	more	specific	recommendations	 made	by	the	American	
College	of	Sports	Medicine	 on	the	amount	 and	composition	 of	fluids	that	should	be	
ingested	before,	during,	and	after	athletic	competitions:
•	 Slowly	 drink	5	to	7	mL	kg–1	at	least	4	hours	before	the	exercise	 task	and	then	3	to	
5	mL	kg–1	about	2	hours	before	the	event;	this	will	allow	sufficient	 time	for	urine	
output	to	return	toward	normal	before	starting	the	event.	Consuming	 beverages	
with	sodium	and/or	salted	snacks	or	sodium-	containing	 foods	at	meals	will	help	
stimulate	thirst	and	retain	the	consumed	fluids.
•	 The	 goal	of	drinking	 during	exercise	 is	to	prevent	excessive	 dehydration	 and	dra-
matic	changes	 in	electrolyte	 balance	to	avert	compromised	 exercise	 performance.	
The	amount	and	rate	of	fluid	replacement	 depends	 on	the	individual	 sweating	 rate,	
exercise	 duration,	 and	opportunities	 to	drink.	Individuals	 should	develop	 custom-
ized	fluid	replacement	programs	to	achieve	this	goal.
•	 Ingested	 fluids	should	be	cooler	than	ambient	 temperature	 (i.e.,	15	to	22°C	or	59	to	
72°F	),	flavored	 to	enhance	 palatability	 and	fluid	replacement,	 and	readily	available	
in	ample	volume.
•	 During	 exercise	 lasting	longer	than	one	hour,	carbohydrate	 should	be	consumed	 at	
a	rate	of	~30–60	g	h–1	to	meet	carbohydrate	 needs	and	delay	fatigue;	this	can	be	
achieved	 by	drinking	 600	to	1200	ml	h–1	of	solutions	 containing	 4	to	8	percent	car-
bohydrate.	 Ingested	 beverages	 should	also	contain	sodium	(i.e.,	500	to	700	mg	L–1)	
to	maintain	plasma	osmolality,	promote	fluid	retention,	and	prevent	hyponatremia.
•	 After	 exercise,	 individuals	 needing	 rapid	and	complete	 recovery	 from	excessive	
dehydration	 should	drink	~1.5	L	of	fluid	for	each	kilogram	 of	body	weight	lost.	Con-
suming	beverages	 and	snacks	with	sodium	will	help	expedite	 rapid	and	complete	
recovery	by	stimulating	thirst	and	fluid	retention.
Heat injuries
One	of	the	most	serious	threats	to	the	performance	 and	health	of	physically	 active	indi-
viduals	is	heat	injuries,	 or	heat	illness.	An	early	report	indicates	 that	heat-	related	injuries	
and	illness	cause	240	deaths	annually,	 often	in	athletes	(Barrow	 and	Clark	1998).	Heat	
injury	is	most	common	 during	exhaustive	 exercise	 in	a	hot,	humid	environment,	 particu-
larly	if	the	athlete	is	dehydrated.	 These	problems	 affect	not	only	highly	trained	athletes,	
but	also	less	well-	trained	sports	participants.	 In	fact,	those	who	are	less	well	trained	or	
overweight	 and	poorly	conditioned	 are	more	prone	to	heat	injuries	because	 they	have	
less	effective	 thermoregulation,	 work	less	economically,	 and	use	more	carbohydrate	 for	

424		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
muscular	 work.	From	the	perspective	 of	health	and	safety,	it	is	far	easier	to	prevent	heat	
injury	than	to	remedy	it.	However,	 if	one	fails	to	pay	attention	 to	the	normal	signs	of	
heat	stress,	such	as	thirst,	tiredness,	 lightheadedness,	 and	visual	disturbances,	 the	body’s	
internal	 organs,	especially	 the	cardiovascular	 system,	may	lose	their	ability	to	further	
compensate,	 thereby	triggering	 a	series	of	disabling	 complications,	 some	of	which	can	
have	long-	 term	consequences	or	be	fatal.
	 In	general,	 heat	injuries	result	from	chronic	exposure	 to	the	combination	 of	external	
heat	stress	and	the	inability	 to	dissipate	 metabolically	 generated	 heat.	Heat	injuries,	 in	
order	of	increasing	 severity,	 include	heat	cramps,	heat	exhaustion,	 and	exertional	 heat-	
stroke.	The	following	 sections	 attempt	 to	discuss	each	level	of	heat	injuries	separately,	
but	readers	must	be	aware	that	no	clear-	cut	demarcation	 exists	between	 these	disorders	
because	 symptoms	 usually	overlap.	 As	shown	in	Figure 	16.3, 	it	is	often	the	cumulative	
effects	of	multiple	adverse	stimuli	that	produce	heat-	 related	injuries.
Heat cramps
Heat	cramps,	 the	least	serious	of	the	three	heat	disorders,	 are	characterized	 by	severe	
involuntary	 muscle	spasms	that	occur	during	and	after	intense	physical	 activity.	They	
involve	primarily	 the	muscles	 that	are	most	heavily	used	during	exercise,	 although	
cramps	may	also	occur	in	the	muscles	 of	the	abdomen.	 This	disorder	 is	most	likely	
brought	on	by	the	electrolyte	losses	and	dehydration	that	accompany	high	rates	of	sweat -
ing	(Figure 	16.3). 	Those	who	often	experience	 cramps	tend	to	have	high	sweat	rates	
and/or	high	sweat	sodium	concentrations.	 With	heat	cramps,	 body	temperature	 does	
Heat stress and exercise
Electrolyte
imbalance
Heat exhaustion
Heat-strokeHeat crampsExcessive sw eat
Loss of
electrolytes
 Plasma
volume Venous
return Blood
pressure
Dizziness,
faintingDehydrationSkin vasodilation  Blood
flow to
active
muscle
 Heart
rate
Figure 16.3 	Flow	chart	for	the	causes	and	progression	of	heat	injuries

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		425
not	necessarily	 increase.	 Heat	cramps	are	treated	by	moving	the	stricken	individual	 to	a	
cooler	location	 and	administering	 fluids	or	a	saline	solution.	 One	can	prevent	this	heat-	
related	disorder	 by	consuming	 a	relatively	 large	quantity	 of	fluids	rich	in	electrolytes	
and/or	increasing	 daily	salt	intake	moderately	 (e.g.,	adding	salt	to	foods	at	mealtimes)	
several	days	before	heat	stress.
Heat exhaustion
Heat	exhaustion	 is	the	most	common	 heat	illness	among	physically	 active	individuals,	
and	usually	develops	 in	those	who	are	dehydrated,	 untrained,	 and	unacclimatized .	It	is	
often	seen	during	the	first	summer	 heatwave	 or	first	hard	training	 session	on	a	hot	day.	
Heat	exhaustion	 is	typically	 accompanied	 by	such	symptoms	 as	extreme	 fatigue,	breath-
lessness,	 dizziness,	 vomiting,	 fainting,	 cold	and	clammy	or	hot	and	dry	skin,	low	blood	
pressure,	 and	a	weak,	rapid	pulse.	This	more	serious	condition	 is	caused	by	the	cardio-
vascular	 system’s	 inability	 to	adjust	compounded	 by	the	depletion	 of	extracellular	 fluid	
including	 plasma	from	excessive	 sweating.	 Blood	pools	in	the	dilated	peripheral	 vessels.	
This	drastically	 reduces	the	central	blood	volume	required	 to	maintain	 cardiac	output.	
During	exercise	 in	heat,	your	active	muscles	and	your	skin,	through	 which	excess	heat	is	
lost,	compete	 for	a	share	of	your	total	blood	volume.	Heat	exhaustion	 results	when	these	
simultaneous	demands	are	not	met.
	 With	heat	exhaustion,	 the	thermoregulatory	 mechanisms	 are	functioning	 but	cannot	
dissipate	 heat	quickly	enough	 because	 insufficient	 blood	volume	is	available	 to	allow	
adequate	distribution	to	the	skin.	Both	stroke	volume	and	blood	pressure	also	fall	due	to	
a	reduced	 central	blood	volume.	Consequently,	 heart	rate	increases	 in	an	effort	to	main-
tain	cardiac	output	(Figure 	16.3). 	As	central	blood	volume	and	pressure	 continue	 to	
decrease,	 sympathetic	 nervous	activity	increases	 and	the	skin’s	blood-	vessels	constrict.	 A	
more	powerful	 constriction	 of	the	blood-	vessels	supplying	 the	abdominal	 organs	leads	to	
cellular	hypoxia	 in	the	region	of	the	gastrointestinal	 tract,	liver,	and	kidneys.	 Cellular	
hypoxia	leads	to	the	production	 of	reactive	oxygen	species	including	 nitric	oxide	(NO).	
NO	is	a	potent	blood-	vessel	dilator	and	its	production	 may	be	viewed	as	protective,	
helping	conserve	 some	blood	flow	through	 the	capillary	 beds	of	the	abdominal	 organs.	
However,	increased	levels	of	NO	contribute	to	a	further	reduction	in	blood	pressure.
	 Treatment	 for	victims	of	heat	exhaustion	 involves	 rest	in	a	cooler	environment	 with	
their	feet	elevated.	 If	the	person	is	conscious,	 administration	 of	salt	water	is	recom-
mended.	 If	the	person	is	unconscious,	 it	is	recommended	 that	saline	solution	 be	admin-
istered	intravenously.	 If	heat	exhaustion	 is	allowed	to	progress,	 it	can	deteriorate	 into	
heat-	stroke.
Heat- stroke
Heat-	stroke	is	a	form	of	hyperthermia,	 an	abnormally	 elevated	 body	temperature	 with	
accompanying	 physical	and	neurological	 symptoms.	 It	is	the	escalation	 of	two	other	heat-
	related	health	problems:	 heat	cramps	and	heat	exhaustion	 (Figure 	16.3). 	Unlike	heat	
cramps	and	heat	exhaustion	 that	are	less	severe,	heat-	stroke	is	a	life-	threatening	 heat	dis-
order	that	requires	 immediate	 medical	attention.	 Heat-	stroke	is	caused	by	failure	of	the	
body’s	thermoregulatory	 mechanisms.	 With	thermoregulatory	 failure,	sweating	 usually	
ceases,	the	skin	becomes	 hot	and	dry,	body	temperature	 rises	to	40.5°C	(105°F	)	or	
higher,	and	the	circulatory	 system	becomes	 excessively	 strained.	 Heat-	stroke	is	character -
ized	by	an	increase	 in	body	temperature	 to	a	value	exceeding	 40°C	(104°F	),	cessation	 of	
sweating,	 hot,	dry,	and	flushed	skin,	rapid	pulse	and	breathing,	 muscle	cramps	or	weak-
ness,	and	confusion	and	unconsciousness.

426		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
	 Sometimes	 a	person	experiences	 symptoms	 of	heat	exhaustion	 before	progressing	 to	
heat-	stroke.	As	mentioned	 earlier,	symptoms	 of	heat	exhaustion	 may	include	nausea,	
vomiting,	 fatigue,	weakness,	 headache,	 muscle	cramps	and	aches,	and	dizziness.	 These	
signs	and	symptoms	 are	milder	than	those	of	heat-	stroke,	and	you	can	prevent	 heat-	
stroke	if	you	receive	medical	attention	 or	take	self-	care	steps	as	soon	as	you	notice	prob-
lems.	If	these	symptoms	 are	left	unnoticed	 or	untreated,	 these	relatively	 milder	
symptoms	 can	progress	 to	result	in	heat-	stroke,	which	can	be	fatal	from	circulatory	 col-
lapse,	oxidative	 damage,	 systemic	 inflammatory	 response,	 and	damage	 to	the	central	
nervous	 system.	Heat-	stroke	may	also	lead	to	rhabdomyolysis ,	a	condition	 in	which	
damaged	 tissue	leaks	its	contents	 into	the	blood,	eventually	 leading	to	kidney	damage	
and	possible	death.
	 The	populations	 most	susceptible	 to	heat-	stroke	are	infants,	the	elderly	(often	with	
associated	 heart	diseases,	 lung	diseases,	 or	kidney	diseases),	 athletes,	 and	outdoor	
workers	 physically	 exerting	 themselves	 in	the	sun	for	an	extended	 period	of	time.	For	
athletes,	 heat-	stroke	is	a	problem	 associated	 not	only	with	extreme	 environmental	 con-
ditions.	Earlier	studies	have	reported	 rectal	temperatures	 above	40.5°C	(105°F	)	in	mara-
thon	runners	 who	successfully	 competed	 races	conducted	 under	moderate	 thermal	
conditions	 (e.g.,	21°C	or	70°F	and	30	percent	relative	humidity).	 Athletes	 who	are	on	
weight	loss	supplements,	 such	as	ephedrine,	 are	more	prone	to	developing	 this	more	
severe	heat	injury,	as	most	weight	loss	products	 impose	extra	strain	on	the	cardiovascular	
system.
	 Treatment	 involves	rapid	mechanical	 cooling	along	with	standard	 resuscitation	 meas-
ures.	The	body	temperature	 must	be	lowered	 immediately.	 The	victim	should	be	moved	
to	a	cool	area	(e.g.,	indoors	or	at	least	into	the	shade)	and	placed	into	the	recovery	 posi-
tion	to	ensure	that	the	airway	remains	 open.	Active	cooling	methods	 may	be	used	and	
these	methods	 include	applying	 cool	or	tepid	water	to	the	skin,	fanning	 the	victim	to	
promote	 evaporation	 of	water,	and	placing	ice-	packs	under	the	armpits	 and	groin.	
Immersion	 in	very	cold	water	is	counterproductive,	 as	it	causes	vasoconstriction	 in	the	
skin	and	thereby	prevents	 heat	from	escaping	 the	body	core.	Hydration	 is	of	paramount	
importance	 in	cooling	the	victim.	This	is	achieved	 by	drinking	 water	if	the	victim	is	con-
scious.	However,	 if	the	victim	is	unconscious	 or	unable	to	tolerate	oral	fluids,	intrave-
nous	hydration	 is	necessary.	 These	cooling	efforts	should	be	continued	 until	the	body	
temperature	 drops	to	~38°C	(100°F	).	Of	course,	always	notify	emergency	 services	
immediately.
Factors influencing heat tolerance
Who	may	be	more	subject	to	heat	injuries?	 How	can	we	prepare	for	prolonged	 activity	in	
the	heat?	Does	training	 in	the	heat	make	us	more	tolerant	 of	thermal	 stress?	Many	
studies	have	investigated	 these	questions.	 To	date,	a	number	 of	predisposing	 factors	have	
been	identified	 to	be	associated	 with	heat	injury	and	they	include	gender,	age,	percent	
body	fat,	level	of	fitness,	previous	history	of	heat	injury,	and	degree	of	acclimatization.
Level of fitness
One	of	the	major	factors	contributing	 to	heat	injuries	is	poor	physical	 fitness.	Using	
male	Marine	Corps	recruits	as	subjects,	 Gardner	 et al.	(1996)	observed	 that	the	risk	for	
developing	 heat	illness	increased	 with	increase	 in	time	to	complete	 a	1.5-mile	 run	con-
ducted	during	the	first	week	of	basic	training.	 For	a	physical	 fit	individual,	 a	given	phys-
ical	task	will	represent	 a	lower	percentage	 of	his	or	her	VO2max.	In	addition,	 those	who	
are	physically	 fit	usually	have	augmented	 circulatory	 function	 that	can	allow	a	more	

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		427
effective	 heat	transfer	 from	the	core	to	the	skin.	Therefore,	 the	better	the	physical	
fitness,	the	better	the	heat	tolerance	 to	a	given	heat	stress.	However,	 it	is	a	mistake	to	
believe	that	athletes	are	immune	 to	any	heat	injury.	There	have	been	reports	on	heat-	
related	deaths	in	some	of	the	elite	athletes.	 These	incidences	 were	often	related	to	the	
unsafe	training	 practices	 or	attempts	 to	reduce	body	weight	for	competition	 through	
sweating	 in	a	hot	environment.	 For	example,	 one	of	the	NCAA	Division	 I	wrestlers	 who	
died	was	wearing	a	rubber	suit	while	riding	a	stationary	bicycle	in	a	steam-	 filled	shower.
Gender
A	distinct	sex	difference	 in	thermoregulation	 exists	for	sweating.	 Women	 possess	more	
heat-	activated	 sweat	glands	per	unit	of	skin	area	than	men,	yet	they	sweat	less.	Women	
begin	to	sweat	at	higher	skin	and	core	temperatures,	 which	means	that	they	do	not	sweat	
as	early	as	men	during	heat	exposure	 or	exercise.	 Despite	a	lower	sweat	output,	women	
show	similar	heat	tolerance	 as	compared	 to	men	of	equal	aerobic	fitness.	For	example,	
comparing	 male	and	female	runners	of	a	comparable	 level	of	fitness,	Arngrímsson	 et al.	
(2004)	found	that	heat-	induced	 reduction	 in	VO2max	and	physical	 performance	 were	
identical	 between	 men	and	women.	This	similarity	 may	be	in	part	attributable	 to	the	fact	
that,	although	 women	sweat	comparatively	 less,	they	have	a	greater	evaporative	 efficiency	
than	men	(Kaciuba-	 Uscilko	and	Grucza	2001).	This	may	be	because	 women	possess	a	
relatively	 large	body	surface	area-	to-body	mass	ratio,	a	favorable	 dimensional	 character -
istic	for	heat	dissipation.	 In	other	words,	under	identical	 conditions	 of	heat	exposure,	
women	cool	at	a	faster	rate	than	men	through	 a	smaller	body	mass	across	a	relatively	
larger	surface	area.	The	similarity	 in	heat	tolerance	 between	 men	and	women	of	equal	
aerobic	fitness	may	also	be	ascribed	 to	the	fact	that	women	rely	more	on	circulatory	
cooling,	 whereas	 a	greater	evaporative	 cooling	occurs	in	men.	This	gender	difference	
may	impose	a	greater	circulatory	 strain	(i.e.,	a	greater	increase	 in	heart	rate)	in	women	
than	in	men.	Nevertheless,	 less	sweat	production	 to	maintain	 thermal	 balance	protects	
women	from	dehydration	during	exercise	in	the	heat.
Age
Does	aging	impair	one’s	ability	to	thermoregulate	 and	exercise	 in	the	heat?	Some	of	the	
earlier	evidence	 suggests	 that	the	ability	to	exercise	 in	the	heat	decreases	 with	advancing	
age	(Dill	and	Consolazio	 1962).	However,	 more	recent	studies	reported	 that	older	and	
young	men	with	a	similar	level	of	training	 show	little	difference	 in	thermoregulation	
during	exercise	 (Pandolf	 et al.	1988,	Thomas	 et al.	1999).	It	appears	that	heat	tolerance	
may	not	be	compromised	 by	age	in	healthy	and	physically	 active	older	individuals.	 A	
decrease	 in	heat	tolerance	 with	age	reported	 in	some	of	the	earlier	studies	seems	to	be	
due	to	deconditioning	and/or	a	lack	of	heat	acclimatization	in	older	subjects.
	 As	more	and	more	people	become	 and	remain	physically	 active	throughout	 middle	
age	and	advanced	 years,	it	may	be	expected	 that	older	individuals	 tolerate	exercise	 in	
the	heat	just	as	well	as	younger	 adults.	However,	 caution	should	still	be	made	in	that	with	
advancing	 age	the	elderly	will	lose	their	sweat	glands	progressively	 over	time.	In	addi-
tion,	Kenney	and	Chiu	(2001)	have	found	that	during	exercise	 in	a	warm	environment,	
older	adults	exhibit	reduced	 thirst	sensation	 and	thus	decreased	 voluntary	 fluid	intake.	
Therefore,	 older	individuals	 need	to	be	especially	 diligent	in	following	 recommended	
hydration	 strategies	 before,	during,	and	after	exercise.	 Voluntary	 fluid	consumption	 in	
the	elderly	may	be	enhanced	 by	using	electrolyte-	 carbohydrate	 solution.	 Baker	 et al.	
(2005)	found	that	older	adults	drank	enough	to	maintain	 fluid	balance	when	palatable	
fluid,	such	as	carbohydrate-	 electrolyte	solution,	was	readily	available.

428		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
	 When	 compared	 to	adolescents	 and	adults,	children	 may	produce	 more	metabolic	
heat	during	exercise	 relative	to	their	body	size.	This	is	caused	by	the	fact	that	children	
are	not	as	metabolically	 efficient	 in	performing	 physical	 activity	as	compared	 to	adults.	
Children	 don’t	sweat	as	much,	although	 they	have	a	greater	number	 of	heat-	activated	
sweat	glands	per	unit	skin	area	than	do	adults	(Falk	 et al.	1992).	In	addition,	 children	
have	a	reduced	 capacity	 to	convey	heat	from	the	core	to	the	skin	and	take	longer	to	
acclimatize	 to	heat	than	do	adolescents	 and	adults.	These	age	differences	 suggest	that,	
when	exposed	 to	environmental	 heat	stress,	children	 should	exercise	 at	reduced	
intensity	and	allow	more	time	to	adapt	to	the	environment.
Level of body fat
Excess	body	fat	negatively	 affects	exercise	 performance	 in	hot	environments.	 Extra	fat	
directly	adds	to	the	metabolic	 cost	of	weight-	bearing	activity.	Extra	fat	also	increases	 insu-
lation	of	the	body	shell	and	thus	retards	heat	dissipation	 from	the	body	to	the	surround -
ings.	Therefore,	 obese	individuals	 not	only	generate	 more	heat	during	exercise,	 but	also	
have	high	amounts	 of	body	fat	to	deter	heat	loss.	In	the	case	of	American	 football,	 the	
additional	 demands	 of	equipment	 weight	(i.e.,	football	gear),	intense	competition,	 and	
a	hot,	humid	environment	 compound	 these	effects.	Thus,	overweight	 athletes,	 especially	
linemen	 who	generally	 have	more	body	fat,	can	experience	 considerable	 difficulty	 in	
temperature	 regulation	 and	exercise	 performance.	 In	the	Marine	Corps	study	cited	pre-
viously,	another	 major	predictor	 of	exertional	 heat	illness	was	a	high	body	mass	index,	
which	correlates	with	percent	body	fat	in	most	cases.
Heat acclimatization
Another	 more	important	 factor	in	determining	 an	individual’s	 response	 to	exercise	 in	
the heat is degree of heat acclimatization .	Heat	acclimatization	 refers	to	the	process	in	
which	regular	exercise	 in	a	hot	environment	 results	in	a	series	of	physiological	 adjust-
ments	designed	 to	minimize	 disturbances	 in	homeostasis	 due	to	heat	stress.	The	primary	
adaptations	 that	occur	during	heat	acclimatization	 are	an	increased	 plasma	volume,	
earlier	onset	of	sweating,	 higher	sweat	rate,	reduced	 sodium	loss	in	sweat,	reduced	 skin	
blood	flow,	and	reduced	 use	of	muscle	glycogen.	 These	adaptations	 take	place	relatively	
rapidly,	with	almost	complete	 acclimatization	 being	achieved	 by	7	to	14	days	after	the	
first	exposure	 to	the	heat.	Although	 partial	heat	acclimatization	 may	occur	by	training	in	
a	cool	environment,	 athletes	must	exercise	 in	a	hot	environment	 to	obtain	maximal	 heat	
acclimatization	(Armstrong	and	Maresh	1991).
	 As	stated	previously,	 heat	acclimatization	 results	in	earlier	onset	of	sweating.	 This	
means	that	sweating	 begins	rapidly	after	the	commencement	 of	exercise,	 which	trans-
lates	into	lower	heat	storage	at	the	beginning	 of	exercise	 and	a	lower	core	temperature.	
In	addition,	 heat	acclimatization	 also	increases	 sweat	capacity	almost	threefold	 above	the	
rate	achieved	 prior	to	heat	acclimatization	 (Yanagimoto	 et al.	2002).	Therefore,	 much	
more	evaporative	 cooling	is	possible.	 As	a	result,	skin	temperatures	 are	lower.	This	then	
increases	 the	temperature	 gradient	 from	deep	in	the	body	to	the	skin	and	the	environ-
ment.	Because	 heat	loss	is	facilitated	 via	sweat,	less	blood	must	flow	to	the	skin	for	body	
heat	transfer,	 so	more	blood	is	available	 for	the	active	muscles.	 In	addition,	 the	sweat	
produced	 is	more	diluted	following	 training	 in	heat,	so	the	body’s	mineral	 stores	are	
conserved.
	 Heat	acclimatization	 may	result	in	a	10	percent	gain	in	plasma	volume	(Gisolfi	and	
Cohen	1979).	The	increase	 in	plasma	volume	is	due	to	an	increase	 in	plasma	proteins	
and	sodium	content,	 which	function	 to	draw	more	fluids	into	the	blood	via	osmosis.	 This	

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		429
increased	 plasma	volume	maintains	 central	blood	volume,	venous	return,	stroke	volume,	
and	sweating	 capacity,	 and	allows	the	body	to	store	more	heat	with	a	smaller	rise	in	body	
temperature.	 The	increased	 plasma	volume	coupled	 with	reduced	 blood	flow	to	the	skin	
causes	the	heart	rate	to	increase	 less	in	response	 to	a	submaximal	 exercise.	 This	lower	
increase	in	heart	rate	contributes	to	an	increase	in	stroke	volume.
Summary
•	 The	 body’s	thermostat	 is	located	in	the	hypothalamus.	 An	increase	 in	core	temper-
ature	results	in	the	hypothalamus	 initiating	 a	series	of	physiological	 actions	aimed	at	
increasing	heat	loss.	These	actions	include	sweating	and	skin	vasodilation.
•	 The	 body	produces	 heat	due	to	normal	metabolic	 processes.	 Metabolic	 heat	produc-
tion	is	small	at	rest	or	during	sleep.	However,	 during	intense	exercise,	 heat	produc-
tion	is	large.	The	heat	production	 may	be	classified	 as	voluntary	 and	involuntary.	
Voluntary	 heat	production	 is	brought	 about	by	exercise,	 whereas	 involuntary	 heat	
production	 results	from	shivering	 or	the	secretion	 of	hormones,	 such	as	thyroxine	
and	catecholamines.
•	 The	 heat	produced	 in	the	body	must	have	access	to	the	outside	world.	The	heat	
from	deep	in	the	body	(core)	is	moved	by	the	blood	to	the	skin	(the	shell).	Once	
heat	nears	the	skin,	it	can	be	transferred	 to	the	environment	 by	any	of	the	four	
mechanisms:	 conduction,	 convection,	 radiation,	 and	evaporation.	 Radiation	 is	the	
primary	 means	for	dissipating	 the	body’s	excess	heat	at	rest,	whereas	 evaporation	
functions	as	a	major	defense	against	overheating	during	exercise.
•	 Evaporation	 of	sweat	from	the	skin	is	dependent	 on	three	factors:	(1)	the	temper-
ature	and	relative	humidity;	 (2)	the	convective	 current	around	the	body,	and	(3)	
the	amount	of	skin	surface.	Warm,	humid	environments	 dramatically	 decrease	 the	
effectiveness	 of	evaporative	 heat	loss.	This	increases	 one’s	vulnerability	 to	a	danger-
ous	state	of	dehydration.
•	 The	 circulatory	 system	serves	as	the	“driving	 force”	to	maintain	 thermal	balance.	 In	
hot	weather,	 heart	rate	and	blood	flow	from	the	heart	increase	 while	superficial	 arte-
rial	and	venous	blood-	vessels	dilate	to	divert	warm	blood	to	the	body’s	shell.	This	cir-
culatory	adjustment	may	hamper	blood	and	oxygen	supply	to	the	working	muscle.
•	 Maintenance	 of	fluid	balance	 results	from	both	neural	and	hormonal	 regulation.	
When	the	body	becomes	 dehydrated,	 the	thirst	center	in	the	hypothalamus	 triggers	
the	drive	to	drink,	and	the	kidneys	retain	more	fluids	via	the	action	of	anti-	diuretic	
hormone	 and	aldosterone.	 Fluid	replacement	 should	be	carefully	 carried	out.	While	
excessive	 loss	of	water	may	cause	dehydration,	 consuming	 too	much	water	without	
electrolytes	may	lead	to	hyponatremia.
•	 Fluid	 loss	in	excess	of	2	percent	of	body	mass	impedes	 heat	dissipation,	 comprom -
ises	cardiovascular	 function,	 and	diminishes	 exercise	 capacity	 in	a	hot	environment.	
The	reasons	dehydration	 has	an	adverse	effect	on	exercise	 performance	 may	be	
attributed	 mainly	to	factors	that	are	cardiovascular	 and	metabolic	 in	origin,	and	
these	factors	include	reduced	 cardiac	output,	increased	 heart	rate,	accelerated	 gly-
cogen	use,	increased	 lactate	production,	 altered	electrolyte	 balance,	 and	impaired	
cognitive	function.
•	 Rehydration	 based	on	thirst	sensation	 is	not	a	reliable	approach.	 Athletes	 should	
become	accustomed	 to	consuming	 fluids	at	regular	intervals	 with	and	without	thirst	
during	training	 sessions.	 The	amount	to	be	rehydrated	 should	at	least	match	sweat	
loss	incurred	 during	exercise.	 However,	 athletes	 are	encouraged	 to	ingest	more	
than	their	sweat	loss	in	order	to	account	 for	urine	loss	associated	 with	beverage	
consumption.

430		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
•	 Adding	 carbohydrate	 to	a	replacement	 fluid	has	the	potential	 to	hamper	 gastric	
emptying	 and	thus	fluid	absorption.	 Thus,	caution	should	be	exercised	 in	choos-
ing	a	sports	drink.	In	cool	environments,	 where	substrate	 provision	 to	maintain 	
endurance	 performance	 is	more	important,	 a	concentrated	 solution	 containing 	
large	amounts 	of	glucose	is	recommended. 	When	dehydration 	or	hyperthermia 	is	
the	major	threat	to	performance,	 fluid	replacement	 is	the	primary	 consideration. 	
In	very	prolonged	 exercise	 in	the	heat	with	heavy	sweat	loss,	such	as	ultramara -
thons,	carbohydrate	 and	electrolyte	 replacement	 is	essential	 to	prevent	 heat	
injury.
•	 Heat	 cramps,	 heat	exhaustion,	 and	heat-	stroke	are	the	major	forms	of	heat	illness.	
Heat-	stroke	represents	 the	most	serious	 and	complex	 of	these	heat-	related	
disorders.
•	 Repeated	 heat	stress	initiates	 thermoregulatory	 adjustments	 that	improve	 exercise	
capacity.	 The	primary	 adaptations	 that	occur	during	heat	acclimatization	 are	an	
increased	 plasma	volume,	 earlier	onset	of	sweating,	 higher	sweat	rate,	reduced	
sodium	lost	in	sweat,	reduced	skin	blood	flow,	and	reduced	use	of	muscle	glycogen.
•	 When	 controlling	 for	fitness	and	acclimatization	 levels,	women	and	men	show	equal	
thermoregulatory	 efficiency	 during	exercise.	 Women	 produce	 less	sweat	than	men	
do	and	rely	more	on	circulatory	 cooling.	 This	gender	difference	 may	impose	a	
greater	circulatory	 strain	upon	women	than	upon	men.	However,	 less	sweat	produc-
tion	to	maintain	 thermal	 balance	 may	protect	women	from	dehydration	 during	
exercise	in	the	heat.
•	 Aging	 may	impair	thermoregulatory	 function.	 However,	 this	impairment	 appears	to	
be	fitness	related.	Older	and	young	men	with	a	similar	level	of	training	 show	little	
difference	 in	thermoregulation	 during	exercise	 as	well	as	the	ability	to	acclimatize	
to	heat	stress.
Case study: fighting against heat cramps
Devon	is	a	talented	 17-year-	old	tennis	player.	He	trained	hard,	competed	 regularly	 with	
the	best,	and	attained	 a	respectable	 national	 ranking.	 He	was	accustomed	 to	doing	well	
in	the	early	rounds	of	most	tournaments.	 Unfortunately,	 after	winning	 several	matches,	
particularly	 in	events	held	in	hot	weather,	 Devon	often	faced	an	unyielding	 opponent	
that	many	of	his	counterparts	 seem	to	avoid:	heat	cramps.	 These	debilitating	 muscle	
cramps,	which	primarily	 affected	 Devon’s	 legs,	occurred	 despite	his	efforts	to	hydrate	
and	eat	well	between	 matches.	 Devon	has	talked	to	a	number	 of	trainers	and	physicians	
and	tried	a	variety	of	“remedies,”	 but	none	of	them	seems	to	work.	It	wasn’t	until	
recently	 that	Devon’s	 physician	 noticed	that	Devon’s	 family	regularly	 consumed	 a	diet	
fairly	low	in	salt	due	to	the	fact	that	his	father	had	high	blood	pressure.	 Subsequent	
laboratory	 testing	also	revealed	 that	Devon	had	high	rates	of	fluid	and	sodium	loss	via	
sweating	 during	competitions.	 Because	 of	these	findings,	 Devon	was	urged	by	his	physi-
cian	to	increase	 his	daily	salt	intake	and	to	pay	more	attention	 to	appropriate	 fluid	
intake	in	order	to	prevent	heat	cramps.
Questions
•	 How	would	you	define	the	condition	of	heat	cramps?	What	causes	heat	cramps?
•	 How	does	heat	cramp	differ	from	other	heat	illness,	such	as	heat	exhaustion	 and	
heat-	stroke?
•	 What	 would	you	recommend	 Devon	do	to	maintain	 an	adequate	 sodium	concentra-
tion,	especially	during	tournaments?

Thermoregulation and fluid balance 		431
Review questions
	1	 Discuss	the	role	of	the	hypothalamus	in	temperature	regulation.
	2	 List	and	define	the	four	heat-	dissipating	 mechanisms.	 Which	of	these	heat	loss	
avenues	plays	the	most	important	part	during	exercise	in	a	hot/dry	environment?
	3	 How	does	an	increase	 in	exercise	 intensity	 affect	the	total	heat	production,	 evapora-
tive	heat	loss,	convective	heat	loss,	and	radiant	heat	loss?
	4	 How	are	(1)	sweat	loss,	(2)	sweat	rate,	and	(3)	dehydration	determined?
	5	 Explain	 the	role	of	circulation	 in	heat	dissipation.	 Why	does	heart	rate	often	experi-
ence	a	greater	increase	 during	exercise	 in	heat	as	compared	 to	thermo-	neutral	
conditions?
	6	 Your	friend	is	going	to	run	a	marathon.	 The	projected	 weather	 forecast	 is	sunny,	
warm,	and	humid.	What	advice	would	you	offer	regarding	 consumption	 of	fluid,	
including	carbohydrate	and	electrolytes,	before	and	during	the	race?
	7	 Explain	 the	role	of	(1)	anti-	diuretic	 hormone,	 and	(2)	aldosterone	 in	regulating	
fluid	balance	in	the	body.
	8	 What	 are	the	physiological	 mechanisms	 responsible	 for	why	dehydration	 reduces	
sports	performance?
	9	 How	do	men	and	women	differ	in	responding	to	heat	stress?
10	 Define	 heat	cramps,	heat	exhaustion,	 and	heat-	stroke.	What	are	the	major	symptoms	
associated	with	each	of	these	heat-	 related	injuries?
11	 Define	 the	term	heat	acclimatization.	 List	those	adaptive	 changes	 that	will	occur	
because	 of	heat	acclimatization	 and	discuss	how	they	may	help	restore	exercise	
performance.
Suggested reading
	1	 American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine,	 Sawka	MN,	Burke	LM,	Eichner	 ER,	Maughan	
RJ,	Montain	 SJ,	Stachenfeld	 NS	(2007)	American	 College	of	Sports	Medicine	 Posi-
tion	Stand.	Exercise	 and	fluid	replacement.	 Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise ,	
39:	377–390.
 This position stand provides the most current and evidence- based guidance on fluid replacement 
to sustain appropriate hydration of individuals performing physical activity. It represents an 
official view of the American College of Sports Medicine toward thermoregulation and fluid 
replacement.
	2	 Maughan	 RJ,	Shirreffs	 SM	(2010)	Development	 of	hydration	 strategies	 to	optimize	
performance	 for	athletes	in	high-	intensity	 sports	and	in	sports	with	repeated	 intense	
efforts.	 Scandinavian Journal of Medical Science and Sports ,	20	(Suppl	2):	59–69.
 Athletes should assess their hydration status and develop a personalized hydration strategy that 
takes account of exercise, environment, and individual needs. This review provides a compre -
hensive yet practical guide that may be used by competitive athletes to minimize the strain 
imposed by heat and dehydration.
	3	 Wendt	 D,	van	Loon	LJ,	Lichtenbelt	 WD	(2007)	Thermoregulation	 during	exercise	 in	
the	heat:	strategies	 for	maintaining	 health	and	performance.	 Sports Medicine ,	37:	
669–682.
 During exercise, several powerful physiological mechanisms of heat loss are activated to prevent 
an excessive rise in body core temperature. However, a hot and humid environment can signifi -
cantly add to the challenge that physical exercise imposes upon the body. This article provides a 
thorough review on thermoregulation and hydration strategies for maintaining health and 
performance.

432		 Thermoregulation and fluid balance
Glossary
Aldosterone 	a	hormone	 from	the	adrenal	cortex	that	instructs	 the	kidneys	to	retain	
more	sodium.
Anti- diuretic hormone 	a	hormone	 from	the	posterior	 pituitary	 gland	that	instructs	 the	
kidneys	to	conserve	water	and	electrolytes.
Conduction 	a	process	of	heat	loss	via	the	transfer	of	heat	from	the	body	into	the	mol-
ecules	of	a	cooler	object	in	contact	with	the	body’s	surface.
Convection 	a	process	of	heat	loss	through	 movement	 of	air	or	water	molecules	 in	
contact	with	the	body.
Dehydration 	a	condition	where	there	is	an	excessive	loss	of	body	fluid.
Evaporation 	a	process	of	heat	loss	when	water	is	converted	 from	its	liquid	form	into	its	
vapor	form.
Gastric emptying 	the	process	 by	which	food	leaves	the	stomach	 and	enters	the	
duodenum.
Glucose electrolyte solutions 	the	first	commercial	 fluid	replacement	 preparations	
designed	 for	athletes	 to	replace	fluid	and	carbohydrate	 lost	during	training	 and	
competition.
Glucose polymer solutions 	fluid	replacement	 preparations	 designed	 to	provide	carbo-
hydrate	while	decreasing	 the	osmotic	 concentration	 of	the	solution,	 thus	helping	
with	fluid	absorption.
Heat acclimatization 	the	process	in	which	regular	exercise	 in	a	hot	environment	 results	
in	a	series	of	physiological	 adjustments	 designed	 to	minimize	 disturbances	 in	
homeostasis	due	to	heat	stress.
Hyperhydration 	an	attempt	 to	begin	an	exercise	 bout	with	a	slight	surplus	of	body	
water.
Hyponatremia 	also	regarded	 as	water	intoxication	 resulting	 from	excessive	 water	
ingestion.
Involuntary heat production 	the	heat	production	 that	results	from	shivering	 or	the	
secretion	of	hormones	such	as	thyroxine	and	catecholamines.
Maltodextrin 	a	glucose	 polymer	 that	exerts	lesser	osmotic	 effects	compared	 with	
glucose	and	is	thus	used	in	a	variety	of	sports	drinks	as	the	source	of	carbohydrate.
Non- shivering thermogenesis 	an	increase	 in	heat	production	 due	to	the	combined	
influences	of	thyroxine	and	catecholamines.
Osmolality 	a	measure	of	solute	concentration	of	a	solution.
Radiation 	a	process	of	heat	loss	in	the	form	of	infrared	rays.
Relative humidity 	the	percentage	 of	water	in	ambient	 air	at	a	particular	 temperature	
compared	with	the	total	quantity	of	moisture	that	air	could	carry.
Rhabdomyolysis 	a	condition	 in	which	damaged	 tissue	leaks	its	contents	 into	the	blood,	
eventually	leading	to	kidney	damage	and	possible	death.
Stroke volume 	the	amount	of	blood	ejected	by	the	heart	per	beat.
Thirst	the	desire	to	drink	and	the	sensation	triggered	by	a	lack	of	fluids	in	the	body.
Voluntary heat production 	the	heat	production	 brought	 about	by	exercise	 or	physical	
activity.

Appendix A
Metric units, English–metric conversions, and 
cooking measurement equivalents
Dry measure
1 pint = 0.55 liter 1 quart = 1.10 liters
1 peck = 8.81 liters 1 bushel = 35.24 liters
Liquid measure
1 pint = 0.47 liter 1 quart = 0.946 liter
1 gallon = 3.79 liters
Weight
1 ounce = 28.35 grams 1 pound = 0.45 kilograms
1 short ton = 0.91 metric ton 1 long ton = 1.02 metric tons
1000 milligrams = 1 gram 1000 grams = 1 kilogram
1000 kilograms = 1 metric ton
Length
1 inch = 2.54 centimeters 1 yard = 0.91 meter
1 mile = 1.61 kilometers 1 kilometer = 0.6 mile
10 millimeters = 1 centimeter 10 centimeters = 1 decimeter
10 decimeters = 1 meter 1000 meters = 1 kilometer
Area/square measure
1 square inch = 6.4516 square centimeters 1 square foot = 9.29034 square decimeters
1 square yard = 0.836131 square meter 1 acre = 4046.85642 square meters
1 square mile = 2.59 square kilometers 100 square millimeters = 1 square centimeter
100 square centimeters = 1 square decimeter 100 square decimeters = 1 square meter
Volume/cubic measure
1 cubic inch = 16.34 cubic centimeters  1 cubic foot  = 0.28 cubic meters
1 cubic yard = 0.76 cubic meters 10 milliliters = 1 centiliter
10 centiliters = 1 deciliter 10 deciliters = 1 liter

434  Appendix A
Cooking measurement equivalents
16 tablespoons = 1 cup 8 tablespoons = 1/2 cup
4 tablespoons = 1/4 cup 2 tablespoons = 1/8 cup
1 tablespoons = 1/16 cup 1 tablespoons = 3 teaspoons
8 fluid ounces = 1 cup 1 pint = 2 cups
1 quart = 2 pints 4 cups = 1 quart
1 gallon = 4 quarts 16 ounces = 1 pound

Appendix B
Chemical structure of amino acids
H
C
C
H
(1) Histidine (His)
(essential)
(4) Methionine (Met)
(essential)
(7) Ar ginine (Ar g)
(essential in infancy)
(10) Glutamic acid (Glu)
(13) Phen ylalanine (Phe)
(essential)
(16) Glutamine (Gln)
(19) Valine (V al)
(essential)(20) Cysteine (Cys)(17) Asparagine (Asn) (18) Threonine (Thr)
(essential)(14) Isoleucine (Ile)
(essential)(11) Aspar tic acid (Asp) (12) Serine (Ser)(8) Lysine (L ys)
(essential)(5) Leucine (Leu)
(essential)(6) Alanine (Ala)(2) Tryptophan (T rp)
(essential)(3) Gl ycine (Gl y)C
NH NCH2 CH2NH2
CHO
CO H
N
H
N
HNHCH2NH2
CHO
CO HCH2 CH3S
NH2
CHO
CO HNH (CH2)3 H2NC
O
OCH CH2 CH2
CH2CH2 CH3
CH3HO C
CHNH2
O
CO H
NH2
O
CO H
CH2CH CH2 H2NCNH2
O
CO HO
CH2 H2N C H CNH2
O
CO H
CH2 HS CHNH2
O
CO HCH CHNH2
O
CO HHOCH CH2 HONH2
O
CO HO
CH CH2 C HO
CH3
HOCH CHNH2
O
CO H
CH3
CH3CH CHNH2
O
CO HNH2
O
CO HNH2CH2 H2C
H2C C CHO
CO HH2NCH2(CH2)3
(9) Pr oline (Pr o)NH2
O
CO HCH2CH3
CH3CHNH2
CHO
CO HCH3NH2
CHO
CO HNH2
CHO
CO HNH2
CH2O
CO H
(15) Tyrosine (T yr)CH2CHNH2
O
CO H

Appendix C
Dietary reference intakes for energy, macronutrients, and micronutrients
The dietary reference intakes (DRIs) include two sets of values that serve as goals for nutrient intake: recommended dietary allowances 
(RDAs) and adequate intake (AI). The RDA reflects the average daily amount of a nutrient considered adequate to meet the needs of most 
healthy people. If there is insufficient evidence to determine an RDA, an AI is set.
Table C.1   Dietary reference intakes (DRIs): recommended dietary allowances and adequate intakes, total water and macronutrients. Food and Nutri -
tion Board, Institute of Medicine, National Academies
Life stage group Total watera 
(L/d)Carbohydrate 
(g/d)Total fiber (g/d)Fat (g/d) Linoleic acid (g/d)α-Linolenic acid (g/d)Protein
b 
(g/d)
Infants0 to 6 months 0.7*
 60* ND 31* 4.4* 0.5*  9.1*
6 to 12 months 0.8*  95* ND 30* 4.6* 0.5* 11.0
Children1–3 years 1.3* 130 19* ND
c 7* 0.7* 13
4–8 years 1.7* 130 25* ND 10* 0.9* 19
Males
 9–13 years 2.4* 130 31* ND 12* 1.2* 34
14–18 years 3.3* 130 38* ND 16* 1.6* 52
19–30 years 3.7* 130 38* ND 17* 1.6* 56
31–50 years 3.7* 130 38* ND 17* 1.6* 56
51–70 years 3.7* 130 30* ND 14* 1.6* 56
>70 years 3.7* 130 30* ND 14* 1.6* 56
Females
 9–13 years 2.1* 130 26* ND 10* 1.0* 34
14–18 years 2.3* 130 26* ND 11* 1.1* 46
19–30 years 2.7* 130 25* ND 12* 1.1* 46
31–50 years 2.7* 130 25* ND 12* 1.1* 46
51–70 years 2.7* 130 21* ND 11* 1.1* 46
>70 years 2.7* 130 21* ND 11* 1.1* 46
Pregnancy14–18 years 3.0* 175 28* ND 13* 1.4* 71
19–30 years 3.0* 175 28* ND 13* 1.4* 71
31–50 years 3.0* 175 28* ND 13* 1.4* 71
Lactation14–18 years 3.8* 210 29* ND 13* 1.3* 71
19–30 years 3.8* 210 29* ND 13* 1.3* 71
31–50 years 3.8* 210 29* ND 13* 1.3* 71
Source: Dietary Reference Intakes for Energy, Carbohydrates, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids  (2002/2005) and Dietary Reference Intakes for Water, 
Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, and Sulfate (2005). The report may be accessed via www.nap.edu.
Notes
This table (taken from the DRI reports: see www.nap.edu) presents recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) in bold type and adequate intakes (AI) in ordinary type 
followed by an asterisk (*). A RDA is the average daily dietary intake level, sufficient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97–98%) healthy individuals in a group. It is calculated from an estimated average requirement (EAR). If sufficient scientific evidence is not available to establish an EAR, and thus calculate a RDA, an AI is usually developed. For healthy breastfed infants, an AI is the mean intake. The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed to cover the needs of all healthy individuals in the groups, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevent one from being able to specify with confidence the percentage of individuals covered by this intake.
a Total water includes all water contained in food, beverages, and drinking water.
b Based on g protein per kg of body weight for the reference body weight, e.g., for adults 0.8 g/kg body weight for the reference body weight.
c Not determined.

Table C.1   Dietary reference intakes (DRIs): recommended dietary allowances and adequate intakes, total water and macronutrients. Food and Nutri -
tion Board, Institute of Medicine, National Academies
Life stage group Total watera 
(L/d)Carbohydrate 
(g/d)Total fiber (g/d)Fat (g/d) Linoleic acid (g/d)α-Linolenic acid (g/d)Protein
b 
(g/d)
Infants0 to 6 months 0.7*
 60* ND 31* 4.4* 0.5*  9.1*
6 to 12 months 0.8*  95* ND 30* 4.6* 0.5* 11.0
Children1–3 years 1.3* 130 19* ND
c 7* 0.7* 13
4–8 years 1.7* 130 25* ND 10* 0.9* 19
Males
 9–13 years 2.4* 130 31* ND 12* 1.2* 34
14–18 years 3.3* 130 38* ND 16* 1.6* 52
19–30 years 3.7* 130 38* ND 17* 1.6* 56
31–50 years 3.7* 130 38* ND 17* 1.6* 56
51–70 years 3.7* 130 30* ND 14* 1.6* 56
>70 years 3.7* 130 30* ND 14* 1.6* 56
Females
 9–13 years 2.1* 130 26* ND 10* 1.0* 34
14–18 years 2.3* 130 26* ND 11* 1.1* 46
19–30 years 2.7* 130 25* ND 12* 1.1* 46
31–50 years 2.7* 130 25* ND 12* 1.1* 46
51–70 years 2.7* 130 21* ND 11* 1.1* 46
>70 years 2.7* 130 21* ND 11* 1.1* 46
Pregnancy14–18 years 3.0* 175 28* ND 13* 1.4* 71
19–30 years 3.0* 175 28* ND 13* 1.4* 71
31–50 years 3.0* 175 28* ND 13* 1.4* 71
Lactation14–18 years 3.8* 210 29* ND 13* 1.3* 71
19–30 years 3.8* 210 29* ND 13* 1.3* 71
31–50 years 3.8* 210 29* ND 13* 1.3* 71
Source: Dietary Reference Intakes for Energy, Carbohydrates, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids  (2002/2005) and Dietary Reference Intakes for Water, 
Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, and Sulfate (2005). The report may be accessed via www.nap.edu.
Notes
This table (taken from the DRI reports: see www.nap.edu) presents recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) in bold type and adequate intakes (AI) in ordinary type 
followed by an asterisk (*). A RDA is the average daily dietary intake level, sufficient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97–98%) healthy individuals in a group. It is calculated from an estimated average requirement (EAR). If sufficient scientific evidence is not available to establish an EAR, and thus calculate a RDA, an AI is usually developed. For healthy breastfed infants, an AI is the mean intake. The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed to cover the needs of all healthy individuals in the groups, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevent one from being able to specify with confidence the percentage of individuals covered by this intake.
a Total water includes all water contained in food, beverages, and drinking water.
b Based on g protein per kg of body weight for the reference body weight, e.g., for adults 0.8 g/kg body weight for the reference body weight.
c Not determined.

Table C.2   Dietary reference intakes (DRIs): recommended dietary allowances and adequate intakes, vitamins. Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of 
Medicine, National Academies 
Life stage group Vitamin A 
(µg/d) aVitamin C (mg/d)Vitamin D (µ
g/d) b,cVitamin E (mg/d)
 dVitamin K (µg/d)Thiamin (mg/d)Riboflavin (mg/d)Niacin 
(mg/d) eVitamin B
6 (mg/d)Folate 
(µg/d)  fVitamin B
12 (µg/d)Pantothenic 
acid (mg/d)Biotin 
(µg/d)Choline 
(mg/d) g
Infants0 to 6 months 400* 40* 10
 4* 2.0* 0.2* 0.3*  2* 0.1*  65* 0.4* 1.7*  5* 125*
6 to 12 months 500* 50* 10  4* 2.5* 0.3* 0.4*  4* 0.3*  80* 0.5* 1.8*  6* 150*
Children1–3 years 300 15 15
 6 30* 0.5 0.5  6 0.5 150 0.9 2*  8* 200*
4–8 years 400 25 15  7 55* 0.6 0.6  8 0.6 200 1.2 3* 12* 250*
Males
 9–13 years 600 45 15 11 60* 0.9 0.9 12 1.0 300 1.8 4* 20* 375*
14–18 years 900 75 15 15 75* 1.2 1.3 16 1.3 400 2.4 5* 25* 550*
19–30 years 900 90 15 15 120* 1.2 1.3 16 1.3 400 2.4 5* 30* 550*
31–50 years 900 90 15 15 120* 1.2 1.3 16 1.3 400 2.4 5* 30* 550*
51–70 years 900 90 15 15 120* 1.2 1.3 16 1.7 400 2.4h5* 30* 550*
>70 years 900 90 20 15 120* 1.2 1.3 16 1.3 400 2.4h5* 30* 550*
Females
 9–13 years 600 45 15 11 60* 0.9 0.9 12 1.0 300 1.8 4* 20* 375*
14–18 years 700 65 15 15 75* 1.0 1.0 14 1.2 400i2.4 5* 25* 400*
19–30 years 700 75 15 15 90* 1.1 1.1 14 1.3 400i2.4 5* 30* 425*
31–50 years 700 75 15 15 90* 1.1 1.1 14 1.3 400i2.4 5* 30* 425*
51–70 years 700 75 15 15 90* 1.1 1.1 14 1.5 400 2.4h5* 30* 425*
>70 years 700 75 20 15 90* 1.1 1.1 14 1.3 400 2.4h5* 30* 425*
Pregnancy14–18 years 750 80 15 15 75* 1.4 1.4 18 1.9 600
j2.6 6* 30* 450*
19–30 years 770 85 15 15 90* 1.4 1.4 18 1.9 600j2.6 6* 30* 450*
31–50 years 770 85 15 15 90* 1.4 1.4 18 1.9 600j2.6 6* 30* 450*
Lactation14–18 years 1200 115 15 19 75* 1.4 1.6 17 2.0 500 2.8 7* 35* 550*
19–30 years 1300 120 15 19 90* 1.4 1.6 17 2.0 500 2.8 7* 35* 550*
31–50 years 1300 120 15 19 90* 1.4 1.6 17 2.0 500 2.8 7* 35* 550*
Sources: Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorous, Magnesium, Vitamin D, and Fluoride  (1997); Dietary Reference Intakes for Thiamin, Riboflavin, Niacin, Vitamin B
6, 
Folate, Vitamin B12, Pantothenic Acid, Biotin, and Choline  (1998); Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, and Carotenoids  (2000); Dietary Reference Intakes for 
Vitamin A, Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron, Chromium, Copper, Iodine, Iron, Magnesium, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc  (2001); Dietary Reference Intakes for Water, 
Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, and Sulfate (2005); and Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium and Vitamin D (2011). These reports may be accessed via www.nap.edu.
NotesThis table (taken from the DRI reports, see www.nap.edu) presents recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) in bold type and adequate intakes (AIs) in ordinary type 
followed by an asterisk (*). A RDA is the average daily dietary intake level, sufficient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97–98%) healthy individuals in a 
group. It is calculated from an estimated average requirement (EAR). If sufficient scientific evidence is not available to establish an EAR, and thus calculate a RDA, an AI is usually developed. For healthy breastfed infants, an AI is the mean intake. The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed to cover the needs of all healthy individuals in the groups, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevent one from being able to specify with confidence the percentage of individuals covered by this intake.
a As retinol activity equivalents (RAEs), 1 RAE = 1 µg retinol, 12 µg ß-carotene, 24 µg α-carotene, or 24 µg ß-cryptoxanthin. The RAE for dietary provitamin A caroten-
oids is twofold greater than retinol equivalents (RE), whereas the RAE for preformed vitamin A is the same as RE.
b As cholecalciferol. 1 µg cholecalciferol = 40 IU vitamin D.
c Under the assumption of minimal sunlight.
d As α-tocophenol. α-Tocophenol includes RRR-α-tocophenol, the only form of α-tocophenol that occurs naturally in foods, and the 2 R-stereoisomeric forms of 
α-tocophenol ( RRR-, RSR-, RRS-, and RSS-α-tocophenol) that occurs in fortified foods and supplements. It does not include the 2 S-stereoisomeric forms of 
α-tocophenol (SRR-, SSR-, SRS-, and SSS-α-tocophenol), also found in fortified foods and supplements.
e As niacin equivalents (NE). 1 mg of niacin = 60 mg of tryptophan; 0–6 months = performed niacin (not NE).
f As dietary folate equivalents (DFE). 1 DFE = 1 µg food folate - 0.6 µg of folic acid from fortified food or as a supplement consumed with food = 0.5 µg of a supplement 
taken on an empty stomach.
g Although AIs have been set for choline, there are few data to assess whether a dietary supply of choline is needed at all stages of the life cycle, and it may be that the 
choline requirements can be met by endogenous synthesis at some of these stages.
h Because 10 to 30 percent of older people may malabsorb food-bound B1, it is advisable for those older than 50 years to meet their RDA mainly by consuming foods 
fortified with B12 or a supplement containing B1.
i In view of evidence linking folate intake with neural tube defects in the fetus, it is recommended that all women capable of becoming pregnant consume 400 µg 
from supplements or fortified foods in addition to intake of food folate from a varied diet.
j It is assumed that women will continue consuming 400 µg from supplements or fortified food until their pregnancy is confirmed and they enter prenatal care, which 
ordinarily occurs after the end of the periconceptional period – the critical time for formation of the neural tube.

Table C.2   Dietary reference intakes (DRIs): recommended dietary allowances and adequate intakes, vitamins. Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of 
Medicine, National Academies 
Life stage group Vitamin A 
(µg/d) aVitamin C 
(mg/d)Vitamin D 
(µg/d) b,cVitamin E 
(mg/d) dVitamin K 
(µg/d)Thiamin 
(mg/d)Riboflavin 
(mg/d)Niacin 
(mg/d) eVitamin 
B6 (mg/d)Folate 
(µg/d)  fVitamin 
B12 (µg/d)Pantothenic 
acid (mg/d)Biotin 
(µg/d)Choline 
(mg/d) g
Infants
0 to 6 months 400* 40* 10  4* 2.0* 0.2* 0.3*  2* 0.1*  65* 0.4* 1.7*  5* 125*
6 to 12 months 500* 50* 10  4* 2.5* 0.3* 0.4*  4* 0.3*  80* 0.5* 1.8*  6* 150*
Children
1–3 years 300 15 15  6 30* 0.5 0.5  6 0.5 150 0.9 2*  8* 200*
4–8 years 400 25 15  7 55* 0.6 0.6  8 0.6 200 1.2 3* 12* 250*
Males
 9–13 years 600 45 15 11 60* 0.9 0.9 12 1.0 300 1.8 4* 20* 375*
14–18 years 900 75 15 15 75* 1.2 1.3 16 1.3 400 2.4 5* 25* 550*
19–30 years 900 90 15 15 120* 1.2 1.3 16 1.3 400 2.4 5* 30* 550*
31–50 years 900 90 15 15 120* 1.2 1.3 16 1.3 400 2.4 5* 30* 550*
51–70 years 900 90 15 15 120* 1.2 1.3 16 1.7 400 2.4h5* 30* 550*
>70 years 900 90 20 15 120* 1.2 1.3 16 1.3 400 2.4h5* 30* 550*
Females
 9–13 years 600 45 15 11 60* 0.9 0.9 12 1.0 300 1.8 4* 20* 375*
14–18 years 700 65 15 15 75* 1.0 1.0 14 1.2 400i2.4 5* 25* 400*
19–30 years 700 75 15 15 90* 1.1 1.1 14 1.3 400i2.4 5* 30* 425*
31–50 years 700 75 15 15 90* 1.1 1.1 14 1.3 400i2.4 5* 30* 425*
51–70 years 700 75 15 15 90* 1.1 1.1 14 1.5 400 2.4h5* 30* 425*
>70 years 700 75 20 15 90* 1.1 1.1 14 1.3 400 2.4h5* 30* 425*
Pregnancy
14–18 years 750 80 15 15 75* 1.4 1.4 18 1.9 600j2.6 6* 30* 450*
19–30 years 770 85 15 15 90* 1.4 1.4 18 1.9 600j2.6 6* 30* 450*
31–50 years 770 85 15 15 90* 1.4 1.4 18 1.9 600j2.6 6* 30* 450*
Lactation
14–18 years 1200 115 15 19 75* 1.4 1.6 17 2.0 500 2.8 7* 35* 550*
19–30 years 1300 120 15 19 90* 1.4 1.6 17 2.0 500 2.8 7* 35* 550*
31–50 years 1300 120 15 19 90* 1.4 1.6 17 2.0 500 2.8 7* 35* 550*
Sources: Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorous, Magnesium, Vitamin D, and Fluoride  (1997); Dietary Reference Intakes for Thiamin, Riboflavin, Niacin, Vitamin B6, 
Folate, Vitamin B12, Pantothenic Acid, Biotin, and Choline  (1998); Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, and Carotenoids  (2000); Dietary Reference Intakes for 
Vitamin A, Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron, Chromium, Copper, Iodine, Iron, Magnesium, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc  (2001); Dietary Reference Intakes for Water, 
Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, and Sulfate  (2005); and Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium and Vitamin D  (2011). These reports may be accessed via www.nap.edu.
Notes
This table (taken from the DRI reports, see www.nap.edu) presents recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) in bold type  and adequate intakes (AIs) in ordinary type 
followed by an asterisk (*). A RDA is the average daily dietary intake level, sufficient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97–98%) healthy individuals in a 
group. It is calculated from an estimated average requirement (EAR). If sufficient scientific evidence is not available to establish an EAR, and thus calculate a RDA, an 
AI is usually developed. For healthy breastfed infants, an AI is the mean intake. The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed to cover the needs of all 
healthy individuals in the groups, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevent one from being able to specify with confidence the percentage of individuals 
covered by this intake.
a As retinol activity equivalents (RAEs), 1 RAE = 1 µg retinol, 12 µg ß-carotene, 24 µg α-carotene, or 24 µg ß-cryptoxanthin. The RAE for dietary provitamin A caroten -
oids is twofold greater than retinol equivalents (RE), whereas the RAE for preformed vitamin A is the same as RE.
b As cholecalciferol. 1 µg cholecalciferol = 40 IU vitamin D.
c Under the assumption of minimal sunlight.
d As α-tocophenol. α-Tocophenol includes RRR-α-tocophenol, the only form of α-tocophenol that occurs naturally in foods, and the 2 R-stereoisomeric forms of 
α-tocophenol ( RRR-, RSR-, RRS- , and RSS-α-tocophenol) that occurs in fortified foods and supplements. It does not include the 2 S-stereoisomeric forms of 
α-tocophenol ( SRR-, SSR-, SRS-, and SSS-α-tocophenol), also found in fortified foods and supplements.
e As niacin equivalents (NE). 1 mg of niacin = 60 mg of tryptophan; 0–6 months = performed niacin (not NE).
f As dietary folate equivalents (DFE). 1 DFE = 1 µg food folate - 0.6 µg of folic acid from fortified food or as a supplement consumed with food = 0.5 µg of a supplement 
taken on an empty stomach.
g Although AIs have been set for choline, there are few data to assess whether a dietary supply of choline is needed at all stages of the life cycle, and it may be that the 
choline requirements can be met by endogenous synthesis at some of these stages.
h Because 10 to 30 percent of older people may malabsorb food-bound B1, it is advisable for those older than 50 years to meet their RDA mainly by consuming foods 
fortified with B12 or a supplement containing B1.
i In view of evidence linking folate intake with neural tube defects in the fetus, it is recommended that all women capable of becoming pregnant consume 400 µg 
from supplements or fortified foods in addition to intake of food folate from a varied diet.
j It is assumed that women will continue consuming 400 µg from supplements or fortified food until their pregnancy is confirmed and they enter prenatal care, which 
ordinarily occurs after the end of the periconceptional period – the critical time for formation of the neural tube.

Table C.3  Dietary reference intakes (DRIs): recommended dietary allowances and adequate intakes, elements. Food and Nutrition Board, Institute 
of Medicine, National Academies
Life stage group Calcium 
(mg/d)Chromium (µg/d)Copper (µg/d)Fluoride (mg/d)Iodine (µg/d)Iron (mg/d)Magnesium (mg/d)Manganese (mg/d)Molybdenum (µg/d)Phosporus (mg/d)Selenium (µg/d)Zinc (mg/d)Potassium (g/d)Sodium (g/d)Chloride (g/d)
Infants0 to 6 months 200* 0.2* 200* 0.01* 110* 0.27*
 30* 0.003*  2* 100* 15* 2* 0.4* 0.12* 0.18*
6 to 12 months 200* 5.5* 220* 0.5* 130* 11  75* 0.6*  3* 275* 20* 3 0.7* 0.37* 0.5718*
Children1–3 years 700 11* 340 0.7*
 90 7  80 1.2* 17 460 20 3 3.0* 1.0* 1.5*
4–8 years 1000 15* 440 1*  90 10 130 1.5* 22 500 30 5 3.8* 1.2* 1.9*
Males
 9–13 years 1300 25* 700 2* 120 8 240 1.9* 34 1250 40 8 4.5* 1.5* 2.3*
14–18 years 1300 35* 890 3* 150 11 410 2.2* 43 1250 55 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
19–30 years 1000 35* 900 4* 150 8 400 2.3* 45 700 55 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
31–50 years 1000 35* 900 4* 150 8 400 2.3* 45 700 55 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
51–70 years 1000 30* 900 4* 150 8 400 2.3* 45 700 55 11 4.7* 1.3* 2.0*
>70 years 1200 30* 900 4* 150 8 400 2.3* 45 700 55 11 4.7* 1.2* 1.8*
Females
 9–13 years 1300 21* 700 2* 120 8 240 1.6* 34 1250 40 8 4.5* 1.5* 2.3*
14–18 years 1300 24* 890 3* 150 15 360 1.6* 43 1250 55 9 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
19–30 years 1000 25* 900 3* 150 18 310 1.8* 45 700 55 8 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
31–50 years 1000 25* 900 3* 150 18 320 1.8* 45 700 55 8 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
51–70 years 1200 20* 900 3* 150 8 320 1.8* 45 700 55 8 4.7* 1.3* 2.0*
>70 years 1200 20* 900 3* 150 8 320 1.8* 45 700 55 8 4.7* 1.2* 1.8*
Pregnancy14–18 years 1300 29* 1000 3* 220 27 400 2.0* 50 1250 60 12 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
19–30 years 1000 30* 1000 3* 220 27 350 2.0* 50 700 60 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
31–50 years 1000 30* 1000 3* 220
27 360 2.0* 50 700 60 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
Lactation14–18 years 1300 44* 1300 3* 290 10 360 2.6* 50 1250 70 13 5.1* 1.5* 2.3*
19–30 years 1000 45* 1300 3* 290 9 310 2.6* 50 700 70 12 5.1* 1.5* 2.3*
31–50 years 1000 45* 1300 3* 290 9 320 2.6* 50 700 70 12 5.1* 1.5* 2.3*
Sources: Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorous, Magnesium, Vitamin D, and Fluoride  (1997); Dietary Reference Intakes for Thiamin, Riboflavin, Niacin, Vitamin B
6, 
Folate, Vitamin B12, Pantothenic Acid, Biotin, and Choline  (1998); Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, and Carotenoids  (2000); Dietary Reference Intakes for 
Vitamin A, Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron, Chromium, Copper, Iodine, Iron, Magnesium, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc  (2001); Dietary Reference Intakes for Water, 
Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, and Sulfate (2005); and Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium and Vitamin D (2011). These reports may be accessed via www.nap.edu.
NotesThis table (taken from the DRI reports, see www.nap.edu) presents recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) in bold type and adequate intakes (AIs) in ordinary type 
followed by an asterisk (*). A RDA is the average daily dietary intake level, sufficient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97–98 %) healthy individuals in a 
group. It is calculated from an estimated average requirement (EAR). If sufficient scientific evidence is not available to establish an EAR, and thus calculate a RDA, an AI is usually developed. For healthy breastfed infants, an AI is the mean intake. The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed to cover the needs of all healthy individuals in the groups, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevent one from being able to specify with confidence the percentage of individuals covered by this intake.

Table C.3   Dietary reference intakes (DRIs): recommended dietary allowances and adequate intakes, elements. Food and Nutrition Board, Institute 
of Medicine, National Academies
Life stage group Calcium 
(mg/d)Chromium 
(µg/d)Copper 
(µg/d)Fluoride 
(mg/d)Iodine 
(µg/d)Iron 
(mg/d)Magnesium 
(mg/d)Manganese 
(mg/d)Molybdenum 
(µg/d)Phosporus 
(mg/d)Selenium 
(µg/d)Zinc 
(mg/d)Potassium 
(g/d)Sodium 
(g/d)Chloride 
(g/d)
Infants
0 to 6 months 200* 0.2* 200* 0.01* 110* 0.27*  30* 0.003*  2* 100* 15* 2* 0.4* 0.12* 0.18*
6 to 12 months 200* 5.5* 220* 0.5* 130* 11  75* 0.6*  3* 275* 20* 3 0.7* 0.37* 0.5718*
Children
1–3 years 700 11* 340 0.7*  90 7  80 1.2* 17 460 20 3 3.0* 1.0* 1.5*
4–8 years 1000 15* 440 1*  90 10 130 1.5* 22 500 30 5 3.8* 1.2* 1.9*
Males
 9–13 years 1300 25* 700 2* 120 8 240 1.9* 34 1250 40 8 4.5* 1.5* 2.3*
14–18 years 1300 35* 890 3* 150 11 410 2.2* 43 1250 55 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
19–30 years 1000 35* 900 4* 150 8 400 2.3* 45 700 55 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
31–50 years 1000 35* 900 4* 150 8 400 2.3* 45 700 55 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
51–70 years 1000 30* 900 4* 150 8 400 2.3* 45 700 55 11 4.7* 1.3* 2.0*
>70 years 1200 30* 900 4* 150 8 400 2.3* 45 700 55 11 4.7* 1.2* 1.8*
Females
 9–13 years 1300 21* 700 2* 120 8 240 1.6* 34 1250 40 8 4.5* 1.5* 2.3*
14–18 years 1300 24* 890 3* 150 15 360 1.6* 43 1250 55 9 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
19–30 years 1000 25* 900 3* 150 18 310 1.8* 45 700 55 8 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
31–50 years 1000 25* 900 3* 150 18 320 1.8* 45 700 55 8 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
51–70 years 1200 20* 900 3* 150 8 320 1.8* 45 700 55 8 4.7* 1.3* 2.0*
>70 years 1200 20* 900 3* 150 8 320 1.8* 45 700 55 8 4.7* 1.2* 1.8*
Pregnancy
14–18 years 1300 29* 1000 3* 220 27 400 2.0* 50 1250 60 12 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
19–30 years 1000 30* 1000 3* 220 27 350 2.0* 50 700 60 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
31–50 years 1000 30* 1000 3* 220 27 360 2.0* 50 700 60 11 4.7* 1.5* 2.3*
Lactation
14–18 years 1300 44* 1300 3* 290 10 360 2.6* 50 1250 70 13 5.1* 1.5* 2.3*
19–30 years 1000 45* 1300 3* 290 9 310 2.6* 50 700 70 12 5.1* 1.5* 2.3*
31–50 years 1000 45* 1300 3* 290 9 320 2.6* 50 700 70 12 5.1* 1.5* 2.3*
Sources: Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorous, Magnesium, Vitamin D, and Fluoride  (1997); Dietary Reference Intakes for Thiamin, Riboflavin, Niacin, Vitamin B6, 
Folate, Vitamin B12, Pantothenic Acid, Biotin, and Choline  (1998); Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, and Carotenoids  (2000); Dietary Reference Intakes for 
Vitamin A, Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron, Chromium, Copper, Iodine, Iron, Magnesium, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc  (2001); Dietary Reference Intakes for Water, 
Potassium, Sodium, Chloride, and Sulfate  (2005); and Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium and Vitamin D  (2011). These reports may be accessed via www.nap.edu.
Notes
This table (taken from the DRI reports, see www.nap.edu) presents recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) in bold type  and adequate intakes (AIs) in ordinary type 
followed by an asterisk (*). A RDA is the average daily dietary intake level, sufficient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97–98 %) healthy individuals in a 
group. It is calculated from an estimated average requirement (EAR). If sufficient scientific evidence is not available to establish an EAR, and thus calculate a RDA, an 
AI is usually developed. For healthy breastfed infants, an AI is the mean intake. The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed to cover the needs of all 
healthy individuals in the groups, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevent one from being able to specify with confidence the percentage of individuals 
covered by this intake.

Appendix D
Estimated energy requirement calculations 
and physical activity values
Table D.1 Estimated energy requirement calculations
Age group Equations for estimated energy requirement (EER; kcal/d) a
 0–3 months [89 × weight (kg) – 100] + 75
 4–6 months [89 × weight (kg) – 100] + 56
 7–12 months [89 × weight (kg) – 100] + 22
13–36 months [89 × weight (kg) – 100] + 20
 3–8 years (male)  88.5 – [61.9 × age (y)] + PA × [26.7 × weight (kg) + 903 × height (m)] + 20
 3–8 years (female) 135.3  – [30.8  × age (y)] + PA × [10.0 × weight (kg) + 934 × height (m)] + 20
 9–18 years (male)  88.5 – [61.9  × age (y)] + PA × [26.7 × weight (kg) + 903 × height (m)] + 25
 9–18 years (female) 135.3  – [30.8  × age (y)] + PA × [10.0 × weight (kg) + 934 × height (m)] + 25
19+ years (male) 662 – [9.53 × age (y)] + PA × [15.91 × weight (kg) + 539.6 × height (m)]
19+ years (female) 354 – [6.91 × age (y)] + PA × [9.36 × weight (kg) + 726 × height (m)]
Pregnancy
14–18 years
 First trimester Adolescent EER + 0
 Second trimester Adolescent EER + 340
 Third trimester Adolescent EER + 452
19–50 years
 First trimester Adult EER + 0
 Second trimester Adult EER + 340
 Third trimester Adult EER + 452
Lactation4–18 years
 First trimester Adolescent EER + 330
 Second trimester Adolescent EER + 400
19–50 years
 First trimester Adult EER + 330
 Second trimester Adult EER + 400
Overweight or obese b
 3–18 years (male)  114 – [50.9 × age (y)] + PA × [19.5 × weight (kg) + 1161.4 × height (m)]
 3–18 years (female)  389 – [41.2 × age (y)] + PA × [15.0 × weight (kg) + 701.6 × height (m)]
19+ years (male) 1086 – [10.1 × age (y)] + PA × [13.7 × weight (kg) + 416 × height (m)]
19+ years (female)  448 – [7.95 × age (y)] + PA × [11.4 × weight (kg) + 619 × height (m)]
Notes
a “PA” stands for the “physical activity” value appropriate for the age and physiological state. These may 
be found in the next table.
b Body mass index (BMI ≥25 kg/m2; values represent estimated total energy expenditure (TEE; kcal/d) 
for weight maintenance; weight loss may be achieved by a reduction in energy intake and/or an 
increase in energy expenditure.

Table D.2  Physical activity (PA) values
Age group (sex) Physical activity level aPhysical activity (PA) value
 3–8 years (male) Sedentary 1.00
Low active 1.13
Active 1.26
Very active 1.42
 3–8 years (female) Sedentary 1.00
Low active 1.16
Active 1.31
Very active 1.56
 3–18 years (overweight male)bSedentary 1.00
Low active 1.12
Active 1.24
Very active 1.45
 3–18 years (overweight female)bSedentary 1.00
Low active 1.18
Active 1.35
Very active 1.60
 9–18 years (male) Sedentary 1.00
Low active 1.13
Active 1.26
Very active 1.42
 9–18 years (female) Sedentary 1.00
Low active 1.16
Active 1.31
Very active 1.56
19+ years (male) Sedentary 1.00
Low active 1.11
Active 1.25
Very active 1.48
19+ years (female) Sedentary 1.00
Low active 1.12
Active 1.27
Very active 1.45
19+ years (overweight male)bSedentary 1.00
Low active 1.12
Active 1.29
Very active 1.59
19+ years (overweight female)bSedentary 1.00
Low active 1.16
Active 1.27
Very active 1.44
Source: Institute of Medicine (2005).
Notes
a Sedentary activity level is characterized by no physical activity aside from that needed for independent 
living. Low active  level is characterized by walking 1.5–3 miles/day at 2–4 mph (or equivalent) in addi -
tion to the light activity associated with typical day-to-day life. People who are active walk 3–10 miles/
day at 2–4 mph (or equivalent) in addition to the light activity associated with typical day-to-day life. 
Very active  individuals walk 10 or more miles/day at 2–4 mph (or equivalent) in addition to the light 
activity associated with typical day-to-day life.
b Body mass index (BMI) = 25 kg/m2.

Appendix E
Daily values used in food labels with a 
comparison to RDAs
Table E.1 Daily values used in food labels with a comparison to RDAs
Dietary constituent Unit of 
measureDaily values for people  over 4 years of age*RDA for malesRDA for females
Total fat g <65 – –
Saturated fatty acids g <20 – –
Protein g 50 56 46
Cholesterol mg <300 – –
Carbohydrate g ~300 130 130
Fiber g 25 38 25
Vitamin A µg 1000 900 700
Vitamin D IU 400 200 200
Vitamin E IU 30 22–33 22–33
Vitamin K µg 80 120 90
Vitamin C mg 60 90 75
Folate µg 400 400 400
Thiamin mg 1.5 1.2 1.1
Riboflavin mg 1.7 1.3 1.1
Niacin mg 20 16 14
Vitamin B6 mg 2 1.3 1.3
Vitamin B12 µg 6 2.4 2.4
Biotin mg 0.3 0.03 0.03
Pantothenic acid mg 10 5 5
Calcium mg 1000 1000 1000
Phosphorus mg 1000 700 700
Iodide µg 150 150 150
Iron mg 18 8 18
Magnesium mg 400 400 310
Copper mg 2 0.9 0.9
Zinc mg 15 11 8
Sodium mg <2400 1500 1500
Potassium mg 3500 4700 4700
Chloride mg 3400 2300 2300
Manganese mg 2 2.3 1.8
Selenium µg 70 55 55
Chromium µg 120 35 25
Molybdenum µg 75 45 45
Note
*  Daily values are based on a 2000 kcal diet, with a caloric distribution of 30% from fat (one-third of this 
total from saturated fat), 60% for carbohydrate, and 10% from protein. They are generally set at the 
highest nutrient recommendation in a specific age and gender category, and thus many daily values 
exceed current nutrient standards. g = gram; mg = milligram; µg = microgram; IU = international unit.

Appendix F
World anti- doping code international 
standard prohibited list
SUBSTANCES AND METHODS PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES
Prohibited substances
S0-non- approved substances
Any pharmacological substance that is not addressed by any of the subsequent sections 
of the list and with no current approval by any governmental regulatory health authority 
for human therapeutic use (e.g., drugs under pre- clinical or clinical development or dis -
continued, designer drugs, substances approved only for veterinary use) is prohibited at 
all times.
S1-anabolic agents
1 Anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS)
a Exogenous AAS, including:
1-androstenediol (5 α-androst- 1-ene- 3β,17β-diol);
1-androstenedione (5 α-androst- 1-ene- 3,17-dione);
1-testosterone (17 β-hydroxy- 5α-androst- 1-en- 3-one);
4-hydroxytestosterone (4,17 β-dihydroxyandrost- 4-en- 3-one);
19-norandrostenedione (estr- 4-ene- 3,17-dione);
Bolandiol (estr- 4-ene- 3β,17β-diol);
Bolasterone;
Boldenone;
Boldione (androsta- 1,4-diene- 3,17-dione);
Calusterone;
Clostebol;
Danazol ([1,2]oxazolo[4’,5’:2,3]pregna- 4-en- 20-yn- 17α-ol);
Dehydrochlormethyltestosterone (4-chloro- 17β-hydroxy- 17α-methylandrosta- 
1,4-dien- 3-one);
Desoxymethyltestosterone (17 α-methyl- 5α-androst- 2-en- 17β-ol);
Drostanolone;
Ethylestrenol (19-norpregna- 4-en- 17α-ol);
Fluoxymesterone;
Formebolone;
Furazabol (17 α-methyl [1,2,5]oxadiazolo[3’,4’:2,3]-5 α-androstan- 17β-ol);

446  Appendix F
Gestrinone;
Mestanolone;
Mesterolone;
Metandienone (17 β-hydroxy- 17α-methylandrosta- 1,4-dien- 3-one);
Metenolone;
Methandriol;
Methasterone (17 β-hydroxy- 2α,17α-dimethyl- 5α-androstan- 3-one);
Methyldienolone (17 β-hydroxy- 17α-methylestra- 4,9-dien- 3-one);
Methyl- 1-testosterone (17 β-hydroxy- 17α-methyl- 5α-androst- 1-en- 3-one);
Methylnortestosterone (17 β-hydroxy- 17α-methylestr- 4-en- 3-one);
Methyltestosterone;
Metribolone (methyltrienolone, 17 β-hydroxy- 17α-methylestra- 4,9,11-trien-  
3-one);
Mibolerone;
Nandrolone;
Norboletone;
Norclostebol;
Norethandrolone;
Oxabolone;
Oxandrolone;
Oxymesterone;
Oxymetholone;
Prostanozol (17β-[(tetrahydropyran- 2-yl)oxy]-1’Hpyrazolo[3,4:2,3]-5 α-
androstane);
Quinbolone;
Stanozolol;
Stenbolone;
Tetrahydrogestrinone (17-hydroxy- 18a-homo- 19-nor- 17α-pregna- 4,9,11-trien- 
3-one);
Trenbolone (17 β-hydroxyestr- 4,9,11-trien- 3-one);
and other substances with a similar chemical structure or similar biological 
effect(s).
b Endogenous AAS when administered exogenously:
Androstenediol (androst- 5-ene- 3β,17β-diol);
Androstenedione (androst- 4-ene- 3,17-dione);
Dihydrotestosterone (17 β-hydroxy- 5α-androstan- 3-one);
Prasterone (dehydroepiandrosterone, DHEA, 3 β-hydroxyandrost- 5-en- 17-one);
Testosterone;
 and their metabolites and isomers, including but not limited to:
3β-Hydroxy- 5α-androstan- 17-one;
5α-Androstane- 3α,17α-diol;
5α-Androstane- 3α,17β-diol;
5α-Androstane- 3β,17α-diol;
5α-Androstane- 3β,17β-diol;
5β-Androstane- 3α,17β-diol;
7α-Hydroxy- DHEA;
7β-Hydroxy- DHEA;
4-Androstenediol (androst- 4-ene- 3β, 17β-diol);
5-Androstenedione (androst- 5-ene- 3,17-dione);

Appendix F  447
7-Keto- DHEA;
19-Norandrosterone;
19-Noretiocholanolone;
Androst- 4-ene- 3α,17α-diol;
Androst- 4-ene- 3α,17β-diol;
Androst- 4-ene- 3β,17α-diol;
Androst- 5-ene- 3α,17α-diol;
Androst- 5-ene- 3α,17β-diol;
Androst- 5-ene- 3β,17α-diol;
Androsterone;
Epi- dihydrotestosterone;
Epitestosterone;
Etiocholanolone.
2 Other Anabolic Agents
Including, but not limited to: clenbuterol, selective androgen receptor modulators 
(SARMs, e.g., andarine and ostarine), tibolone, zeranol and zilpaterol.
S2-peptide hormones, growth factors, related substances, and mimetics
The following substances, and other substances with similar chemical structure or similar 
biological effect(s), are prohibited:
1 Erythropoietin- receptor agonists:
a Erythropoiesis- stimulating agents (ESAs), including
•	 Darbepoietin	(dEPO);
•	 Erythropoietins	(EPO);
•	 EPO-	Fc;
•	 EPO-	mimetic	 peptides	 (EMP),	e.g.,	CNTO	530	and	peginesatide;	 methoxy	
polyethylene glycol- epoetin beta (CERA).
b Non- erythropoietic EPO- receptor agonists, including
•	 ARA-	290;
•	 asialo	EPO;
•	 carbamylated	EPO.
2 Hypoxia- inducible factor (HIF ) stabilizers, e.g., cobalt and FG- 4592; and HIF activa -
tors, e.g., argon, xenon.
3 Chorionic gonadotrophin (CG) and luteinizing hormone (LH) and their releasing 
factors, e.g., buserelin, gonadorelin and leuprorelin, in males.
4 Corticotrophins and their releasing factors, e.g., corticorelin.
5 Growth hormone (GH) and its releasing factors, including:
•	 Growth	 hormone	 releasing	 hormone	 (GHRH)	 and	its	analogues,	 e.g.,	CJC-	1295,	
sermorelin and tesamorelin;
•	 Growth	 hormone	 secretagogues	 (GHS),	e.g.,	ghrelin	and	ghrelin	mimetics,	 e.g.,	
anamorelin and ipamorelin;
•	 GH-	releasing	 peptides	 (GHRPs),	 e.g.,	alexamorelin,	 GHRP-	6,	hexarelin	 and	pral-
morelin (GHRP- 2).

448  Appendix F
6 Additional prohibited growth factors:
•	 Fibroblast	growth	factor	(FGF	 );
•	 Hepatocyte	growth	factor	(HGF	 );
•	 Insulin-	 like	growth	factor-	 1	(IGF-	1)	and	its	analogues;
•	 Mechano	growth	factor	(MGF	 );
•	 Platelet-	 derived	growth	factor	(PDGF	 );
•	 Vascular-	 endothelial	growth	factor	(VEGF	 );
•	 Any	other	growth	factor	affecting	 muscle,	tendon,	or	ligament	 protein	synthesis/
degradation, vascularization, energy utilization, regenerative capacity, or fiber 
type switching.
S3-beta- 2 agonists
All beta- 2 agonists, including all optical isomers (e.g., d- and l-) where relevant, are pro -
hibited except for:
•	 Inhaled	salbutamol	(maximum	1600	micrograms	over	24	hours);
•	 Inhaled	formoterol	(maximum	delivered	dose	54	micrograms	over	24	hours);	
•	 Inhaled	 salmeterol	 in	accordance	 with	the	manufacturers’	 recommended	 therapeutic	
regimen.
Note: The presence in urine of salbutamol in excess of 1000  ng/mL or formoterol in excess of 40  ng/
mL is presumed not to be an intended therapeutic use of the substance and will be considered as an 
adverse analytical finding (AAF ) unless the athlete proves, through a controlled pharmacokinetic 
study, that the abnormal result was the consequence of the use of the therapeutic inhaled dose up to 
the maximum indicated above.
S4-hormone and metabolic modulators
The following hormone and metabolic modulators are prohibited:
1 Aromatase inhibitors including, but not limited to:
•	 4-androstene-	 3,6,17	trione	(6-oxo);
•	 Aminoglutethimide;
•	 Anastrozole;
•	 Androsta-	 1,4,6-triene-	 3,17-dione	(androstatrienedione);
•	 Exemestane;
•	 Formestane;
•	 Letrozole;
•	 Testolactone.
2 Selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) including, but not limited to:
•	 Raloxifene;
•	 Tamoxifen;
•	 Toremifene.
3 Other anti- estrogenic substances including, but not limited to:
•	 Clomiphene;
•	 Cyclofenil;
•	 Fulvestrant.

Appendix F  449
4 Agents modifying myostatin function(s) including, but not limited to: myostatin 
inhibitors.
5 Metabolic modulators:
•	 Activators	 of	the	AMP-	activated	 protein	kinase	(AMPK),	 e.g.,	AICAR;	and	peroxi -
some proliferator activated receptor δ (PPARδ) agonists, e.g., GW 1516;
•	 Insulins	and	insulin-	 mimetics;
•	 Meldonium;
•	 Trimetazidine.
S5-diuretics and masking agents
The	following	 diuretics	 and	masking	 agents	are	prohibited,	 as	are	other	substances	 with	
a similar chemical structure or similar biological effect(s) including, but not limited to:
•	 Desmopressin;	 probenecid;	 plasma	expanders,	 e.g.,	glycerol	and	intravenous	 adminis -
tration of albumin, dextran, hydroxyethyl starch and mannitol;
•	 Acetazolamide;	 amiloride;	 bumetanide;	 canrenone;	 chlortalidone;	 etacrynic	 acid;	
furosemide; indapamide; metolazone; spironolactone; thiazides, e.g., bendroflume -
thiazide, chlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide; triamterene and vaptans, e.g., 
tolvaptan.
Except:
•	 Drospirenone;	 pamabrom;	 and	ophthalmic	 use	of	carbonic	 anhydrase	 inhibitors	
(e.g., dorzolamide, brinzolamide);
•	 Local	administration	of	felypressin	in	dental	anesthesia.
Note: The detection in an athlete’s sample at all times or in competition, as applicable, of any 
quantity of the following substances subject to threshold limits: formoterol, salbutamol, cathine, 
ephedrine, methylephedrine, and pseudoephedrine, in conjunction with a diuretic or masking agent, 
will be considered as an adverse analytical finding unless the athlete has an approved TUE for that 
substance in addition to the one granted for the diuretic or masking agent.
Prohibited methods
M1-prohibited methods manipulation of blood and blood components
The following are prohibited:
•	 The	administration	 or	reintroduction	 of	any	quantity	 of	autologous,	 allogenic	
(homologous) or heterologous blood, or red blood cell products of any origin into 
the circulatory system.
•	 Artificially	 enhancing	 the	uptake,	transport,	 or	delivery	of	oxygen	including,	 but	not	
limited to: perfluorochemicals; efaproxiral (RSR13) and modified hemoglobin prod -
ucts, e.g., hemoglobin- based blood substitutes and microencapsulated hemoglobin 
products, excluding supplemental oxygen.
•	 Any	form	of	intravascular	 manipulation	 of	the	blood	or	blood	components	 by	physical	
or chemical means.

450  Appendix F
M2-chemical and physical manipulation
The following are prohibited:
•	 Tampering,	 or	attempting	 to	tamper,	to	alter	the	integrity	 and	validity	of	samples	col-
lected	during	doping	control	including,	 but	not	limited	to:	urine	substitution	 and/or	
adulteration, e.g., proteases.
•	 Intravenous	 infusions	 and/or	injections	 of	more	than	50	mL	per	6-hour	period	except	
for those legitimately received in the course of hospital admissions, surgical proced -
ures, or clinical investigations.
M3-gene doping
The following, with the potential to enhance sport performance, are prohibited:
•	 The	transfer	of	polymers	of	nucleic	acids	or	nucleic	acid	analogues.
•	 The	use	of	normal	or	genetically	modified	cells.
SUBSTANCES AND METHODS PROHIBITED IN COMPETITION
Prohibited substances
S6-stimulants
All stimulants, including all optical isomers (e.g., d- and l-) where relevant, are prohibited.
 Stimulants include:
a Non- specified stimulants:
Adrafinil;
Amfepramone;
Amfetamine;
Amfetaminil;
Amiphenazole;
Benfluorex;
Benzylpiperazine;
Bromantan;
Clobenzorex;
Cocaine;
Cropropamide;
Crotetamide;
Fencamine;
Fenetylline;
Fenfluramine;
Fenproporex;
Fonturacetam [4-phenylpiracetam (carphedon)];
Furfenorex;
Mefenorex;
Mephentermine;
Mesocarb;
Metamfetamine(d-);
p- methylamphetamine;

Appendix F  451
Modafinil;
Norfenfluramine;
Phendimetrazine;
Phentermine;
Prenylamine;Prolintane.
Note: A stimulant not expressly listed in this section is a specified substance.
b Specified stimulants.
Including, but not limited to:
•	 Benzfetamine;•	 Cathine**;
•	 Cathinone	and	its	analogues,	e.g.,	mephedrone,	methedrone,	and  
α-pyrrolidinovalerophenone;
•	 Dimethylamphetamine;•	 Ephedrine***;
•	 Epinephrine****	(adrenaline);
•	 Etamivan;•	 Etilamfetamine;
•	 Etilefrine;
•	 Famprofazone;•	 Fenbutrazate;
•	 Fencamfamin;
•	 Heptaminol;
•	 Hydroxyamfetamine	(parahydroxyamphetamine);
•	 Isometheptene;•	 Levmetamfetamine;
•	 Meclofenoxate;
•	 Methylenedioxymethamphetamine;•	 Methylephedrine***;
•	 Methylhexaneamine	(dimethylpentylamine);
•	 Methylphenidate;•	 Nikethamide;
•	 Norfenefrine;
•	 Octopamine;
•	 Oxilofrine	(methylsynephrine);
•	 Pemoline;•	 Pentetrazol;
•	 Phenethylamine	and	its	derivatives;
•	 Phenmetrazine;•	 Phenpromethamine;
•	 Propylhexedrine;
•	 Pseudoephedrine*****;•	 Selegiline;
•	 Sibutramine;
•	 Strychnine;
•	 Tenamfetamine	(methylenedioxyamphetamine);
•	 Tuaminoheptane;
•	 Other	substances	with	a	similar	chemical	structure	or	similar	biological	effect(s).

452  Appendix F
Except:
•	 Clonidine;
•	 Imidazole	 derivatives	 for	topical/ophthalmic	 use	and	those	stimulants	 included	 in	the	
2016	Monitoring	Program*.
Notes
* Bupropion, caffeine, nicotine, phenylephrine, phenylpropanolamine, pipradrol, and syne -
phrine. These substances are included in the 2016 Monitoring Program, and are not con -
sidered prohibited substances.
** Cathine: Prohibited when its concentration in urine is greater than 5 micrograms per milliliter.
*** Ephedrine and methylephedrine: Prohibited when the concentration of either in urine is 
greater than 10 micrograms per milliliter.
**** Epinephrine (adrenaline): Not prohibited in local administration, e.g., nasal, ophthalmo -
logic, or co- administration with local anaesthetic agents.
***** Pseudoephedrine: Prohibited when its concentration in urine is greater than 150 micro -
grams per milliliter.
S7-narcotics
Prohibited:
•	 Buprenorphine;
•	 Dextromoramide;
•	 Diamorphine	(heroin);
•	 Fentanyl	and	its	derivatives;
•	 Hydromorphone;
•	 Methadone;
•	 Morphine;
•	 Oxycodone;
•	 Oxymorphone;
•	 Pentazocine;
•	 Pethidine.
S8-cannabinoids
Prohibited:
•	 Natural,	 e.g.,	cannabis,	 hashish	and	marijuana,	 or	synthetic	 Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol 
(THC);
•	 Cannabimimetics,	e.g.,	“Spice,”	JWH-	 018,	JWH-	 073,	HU-	 210.
S9-glucocorticoids
All glucocorticoids are prohibited when administered by oral, intravenous, intramuscu -
lar, or rectal routes.

Appendix F  453
SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED IN PARTICULAR SPORTS
P1-alcohol
Alcohol (ethanol) is prohibited in competition only in the following sports. Detection 
will	be	conducted	 by	analysis	of	breath	and/or	blood.	The	doping	violation	 threshold	 is	
equivalent	to	a	blood	alcohol	concentration	of	0.10	 g/L.
•	 Air	sports	(FAI);
•	 Automobile	(FIA);
•	 Archery	(WA);
•	 Powerboating	(UIM).
P2-beta- blockers
Beta-	blockers	 are	prohibited	 in	competition	 only,	in	the	following	 sports,	and	also	pro-
hibited out of competition where indicated.
•	 Archery	(WA)*;
•	 Automobile	(FIA);
•	 Billiards	(all	disciplines)	(WCBS);
•	 Darts	(WDF	 );
•	 Golf	(IGF	 );
•	 Shooting	(ISSF,	IPC)*;
•	 Skiing/Snowboarding	 (FIS)	in	ski	jumping,	 freestyle	 aerials/halfpipe,	 and	snowboard	
halfpipe/big	air;
•	 Underwater	 sports	(CMAS)	 in	constant-	 weight	apnea	with	or	without	fins,	dynamic	
apnea	with	and	without	fins,	free	immersion	 apnea,	Jump	Blue	apnea,	spearfishing,	
static apnea, target shooting, and variable weight apnea.
Note: *Also prohibited out of competition.
The	beta-	 blockers	including,	but	not	limited	to:
•	 Acebutolol;
•	 Alprenolol;
•	 Atenolol;
•	 Betaxolol;
•	 Bisoprolol;
•	 Bunolol;
•	 Carteolol;
•	 Carvedilol;
•	 Celiprolol;
•	 Esmolol;
•	 Labetalol;
•	 Levobunolol;
•	 Metipranolol;
•	 Metoprolol;
•	 Nadolol;
•	 Oxprenolol;
•	 Pindolol;
•	 Propranolol;
•	 Sotalol;
•	 Timolol.

Appendix G
Directions for conducting three- day dietary 
analysis
Step 1: completing food records/diary
1 Select one weekend day and two weekdays that are most reflective of your usual 
eating patterns.
2 Record one food item per line in the recording sheet (see below).
3 Include brand names whenever possible.
4 Record amounts in household measures, such as ounce, tablespoon, cup, slice, 
or unit.
5 Read food labels and, if possible, use standard measuring tools, such as plastic ruler, 
measuring cup, measuring spoons, and weighing scale.
6 Include methods that were used to prepare food items, such as fresh, frozen, stewed, 
fried, baked, canned, broiled, raw, or braised.
7 Record the amounts of visible fats you eat or use in cooking, such as oils, butter, 
salad dressing, margarine.
8 Keep your food diary current, and list foods immediately after they are eaten.
9 Do not alter your normal diet during the period you keep this diary.
Step 2: analyzing nutrient intakes using a computer program 
“nutritioncalc plus”
1 Getting started:
•	 Upon	installation,	select	NutritionCalc	Plus	from	your	program	files.
•	 Be	sure	to	enter	your	name	and	course	information	 in	the	student	ID	informa -
tion box. This information will be printed at the top of each of your report 
pages.
•	 To	begin	your	personal	 diet	analysis,	 click	on	the	Profiles	tab.	Simply	complete	
each	section	and	move	to	the	next	tab	as	indicated	 in	your	assignment.	 Note	that	
each tabbed section will have a drop- down information box on the top right of 
your	screen.	Click	on	the	triangle	 to	use	the	drop-	down	to	learn	about	the	
purpose of each tabbed section.
2	 Creating	a	new	profile:
•	 On	the	Profiles	tab,	click	New.
•	 Enter	the	following	information:
•	 Name:	Enter	name.
•	 Birth	date:	Enter	birthday	as	month/day/year.	Example:	12/08/1987.
•	 Gender:	Select	gender	from	the	pull-	 down	list.
•	 Height:	Enter	height	in	English	or	metric	units.
•	 Weight:	Enter	current	weight	in	pounds	or	kilograms.

Appendix G  455
3	 Calculating	weight	gain/loss:
•	 To	calculate	 the	calorie	change	per	week	or	duration	 needed	to	reach	your	goal,	
click	Weight	gain/loss.
•	 The	current	weight	you	entered	 will	be	shown.	Enter	your	goal	weight.	Select	
Calorie	change	(per	day)	or	Duration	 (in	weeks)	and	enter	a	value.	Choose	Cal-
culate	button	and	the	program	 will	fill	in	the	remaining	 values.	A	safe	weight	
change per week is less than 2 lb.
Example: Current weight = 165. Goal weight = 145. Select Duration and enter 20 (weeks). 
Click Calculate. The program calculates the weight change value as 20 and the Calorie 
change per day as –375.
4	 Activity	level
•	 Select	 Activity	level	from	pull-	down	menu	that	best	matches	 your	individual	 activ -
ity	level.	For	a	description	 of	each	level,	click	the	link.	The	Activity	level	is	a	way	
to	estimate	the	Calories	needed	every	day	to	maintain	current	weight.
Activity level descriptions
Sedentary
The sedentary activity level includes activities of daily living, without additional exercise. 
These activities include housework, grocery shopping, walking the dog, walking to the bus, mowing the lawn, and gardening. Unless you do at least 30 minutes per day of intentional exercise, this level is for you!
Low active
The low active activity level includes activities of daily living plus exercise that is equal to 
walking for 30 minutes at 4 miles per hour every day. For an adult of average weight, this amount of exercise will burn about 120 additional calories. Exercises with lower intensity (METS*) will need to be performed longer to burn the same amount of calories. Likewise, 
exercises with more intensity may be performed for less time to achieve the same goal.
Active
The active activity level includes activities of daily living plus exercise that is equal to 
walking for 1 hour 45 minutes at 4 miles per hour every day. For an adult of average weight, this amount of exercise will burn about 410 additional calories.
Very active
The very active activity level includes activities of daily living plus exercise that is equal to 
walking for 4 hours 15 minutes at 4 miles per hour every day. For an adult of average weight, this amount of exercise will burn about 1000 additional calories.
•	 After	entering	all	information,	click	Save	profile.
•	 Note	 that	the	active	profile	name	will	appear	in	the	Profile	box	in	the	upper	
right of the screen.

456  Appendix G
5 Intakes
•	 Intakes	 are	made	up	of	the	food	consumed	 in	one	day.	Each	food	item	will	be	
part of a meal: breakfast, dinner, lunch, or snack. You can track intakes for as 
many days as you like; there is no limit.
•	 When	 the	Intake	page	opens	for	the	first	time	it	will	open	to	today’s	date	and	you	
can begin entering food items consumed on that day. If you wish to enter foods 
for a different day, simply click on the date. That day will be the active day and 
will	be	highlighted	 in	orange.	 After	you	enter	more	than	one	day’s	worth	of	
intakes, the previous days with intakes will be shaded in green.
•	 To	create	a	new	intake	click	on	the	Intake	tab.	Follow	the	instructions	 on	the	
screen to search for foods to add to your intake list. To create an intake for a dif -
ferent date, use the 365-day calendar to select the appropriate date.
•	 To	search	for	and	enter	a	food	item,	type	the	search	term	or	terms	in	the	search	
box and click on Find. The results will show each item available that meets the 
search criteria.
Search tips
Single word search
Enter one word to find all items that contain that word in the name.
Multiple word search
Enter two or more words to find all items that contain all the words in the name. The words 
can appear anywhere in the name and in any order.
Grouping
Enclosing the words in quotation marks will find all items that contain that exact phrase. 
For example, entering “Fried chicken” will find all items that contain “Fried chicken,” but NOT “Chicken, fried” or “Fried potatoes and chicken.”
Wildcard
Type in a partial word followed by an asterisk. The results will include any item beginning 
with the partial word. For example, if you type in “mil*” you will get millet, milk, etc.
NOT or – (minus) search
The search will eliminate items that contain the term after NOT or –. For example, searching 
for chocolate NOT milk will return items with chocolate but not milk in the title.
OR search
Typing OR between search terms will give you a search list with either of those terms in the 
title. For example, typing chocolate OR milk will give you all items with chocolate in their 
name and all items with milk in their name.
•	 Select	 the	food	from	the	search	results	list	and	click	on	the	Plus	(+)	button	to	
add the food to your intake.
•	 Click	 the	item	name	link	to	preview	the	item.	To	add	the	item	to	your	intake	
from the preview page, click the plus sign at the top.
•	 When	 the	item	has	been	added	to	your	intake,	select	the	Meal	and	serving	
amount in the drop- down.

Appendix G  457
•	 Click	Save	intake	after	each	entry.
•	 Continue	adding	the	remaining	items	in	the	same	manner.
•	 To	assist	in	searching,	 check	out	the	Search	tips	and	list	of	common	 abbreviations	
used in the food database. The Fast entry function automatically saves your last 
20	food	entries.	Use	this	function	 to	quickly	compile	 your	food	list	using	foods	
you	eat	or	drink	on	a	regular	basis.	Click	on	Fast	entry	and	place	check	marks	in	
the box to the left of the foods you wish to add to your intake list.
Table G.1 Sample recording sheet
Food/method of preparation Quantity Meal Note

Bibliography
Achten J, Jeukendrup AE (2004) Relation between plasma lactate concentration and fat 
oxidation rates over a wide range of exercise intensities. International Journal of Sports 
Medicine, 25: 32–37.
Achten J, Gleeson M, Jeukendrup AE (2002) Determination of the exercise intensity that 
elicits maximal fat oxidation. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 34: 92–97.
Ainslie PN, Reilly T, Westerterp KR (2003) Estimating human energy expenditure: a 
review of techniques with particular reference to doubly labelled water. Sports Medi-
cine, 33: 683–698.
Ainsworth BE, Leon AS (1991) Gender differences in self- reported physical activity. Med-
icine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 23: S105.
Alghamdi AA, Al- Radi OO, Latter DA (2005) Intravenous magnesium for prevention of 
atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass surgery: a systematic review and meta- 
analysis. Journal of Cardiological Surgery, 20: 293–299.
Almuzaini KS, Potteiger JA, Green SB (1998) Effects of split exercise sessions on excess 
post- exercise oxygen consumption and resting metabolic rate. Canadian Journal of 
Applied Physiology, 23: 433–443.
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (1994) Exercise during pregnancy 
and post- partum period. American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists Technical Bul -
letin, 189: 2–7.
American College of Sports Medicine (2014) ACSM’s Guidelines for Exercise Testing and 
Prescription, 9th edn. Baltimore, MD: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins.
American College of Sports Medicine Position Stand (1982) The use of alcohol in sports. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 14: ix–xi.
American Dietetic Association (2005) Position paper of the American Dietetic Associ -
ation: nutrition across the spectrum of aging. Journal of American Dietetic Association , 
105: 616–633.
American Dietetic Association, Dietitians of Canada, American College of Sports Medi -
cine, Rodriguez NR, Di Marco NM, Langley S (2009) American College of Sports 
Medicine position stand. Nutrition and athletic performance. Medicine and Science in 
Sports and Exercise, 41: 709–731.
Anderson T (1996) Biomechanics and running economy. Sports Medicine, 22: 76–89.
Andresen V, Camilleri M (2006) Irritable bowel syndrome: recent and novel therapeutic 
approaches. Drugs, 66: 1073–1088.
Armellini R, Zamboni M, Mino A, Bissoli L, Micciolo R, Bosello O (2000) Postabsorptive 
resting metabolic rate and thermic effect of food in relation to body composition 
and adipose tissue distribution. Metabolism , 49: 6–10.
Armon Y, Cooper DM, Flores R, Zanconato S, Barstow TJ (1991) Oxygen uptake 
dynamics during high- intensity exercise in children and adults. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 70: 841–848.

Bibliography   459
Armstrong LE, Epstein Y (1999) Fluid–electrolyte balance during labor and exercise: 
concepts and misconceptions. International Journal of Sport Nutrition , 9: 1–12.
Armstrong LE, Maresh CM (1991) The induction and decay of heat acclimatisation in 
trained athletes. Sports Medicine, 12: 302–312.
Arngrímsson SA, Petitt DS, Borrani F, Skinner KA, Cureton KJ (2004) Hyperthermia and 
maximal oxygen uptake in men and women. European Journal of Applied Physiology , 92: 
524–532.
Artal R, O’Toole M (2003) Guidelines of the American College of Obstetricians and 
Gynecologists for exercise during pregnancy and the postpartum period. British 
Journal of Sports Medicine, 37: 6–12.
Åstrand I (1960) Aerobic work capacity in men and women with a special reference to 
age. Acta Physiologica Scandinavica , 49 (Suppl 169): 1–92.
Astrup A, Buemann B, Flint A, Raben A (2002) Low- fat diets and energy balance: how 
does the evidence stand in 2002? Proceedings of the Nutrition Society, 61: 299–309.
Astrup A, Lundsgaard C, Madsen J, Christensen NJ (1985) Enhanced thermogenic 
responsiveness during chronic ephedrine treatment in man. American Journal of Clini -
cal Nutrition, 42: 83–94.
Astrup A, Meinert Larsen T, Harper A (2004) Atkins and other low- carbohydrate diets: 
hoax or an effective tool for weight loss? Lancet, 364: 897–899.
Atwater WO, Benddict FG (1903) Experiments on the Metabolism of Matter and Energy in the 
Human Body, 1900–1902 . U.S. Department of Agriculture Office of Experiment Sta -
tions, Bulletin 136. Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office.
Babij P, Matthews SM, Rennie MJ (1983) Changes in blood ammonia, lactate, and amino 
acids in relation to workload during bicycle ergometer exercise in man. European 
Journal of of Applied Physiology, 50: 405–411.
Bailey SJ, Winyard P, Vanhatalo A, Blackwell JR, Dimenna FJ, Wilkerson DP, Tarr J, 
Benjamin N, Jones AM (2009) Dietary nitrate supplementation reduces the O2 cost 
of low- intensity exercise and enhances tolerance to high- intensity exercise in 
humans. Journal of Applied Physiology, 107: 1144–1155.
Baker LB, Munce TA, Kenney WL (2005) Sex differences in voluntary fluid intake by 
older adults during exercise. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 37: 
789–796.
Bakker I, Twisk JW, Van Mechelen W, Kemper HC (2003) Fat- free body mass is the most 
important body composition determinant of 10-yr longitudinal development of 
lumbar bone in adult men and women. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabo -
lism, 88: 2607–2613.
Balsom PD, Wood K, Olsson P, Ekblom B (1999) Carbohydrate intake and multiple 
sprint sports: with special reference to football (soccer). International Journal of Sports 
Medicine, 20: 48–52.
Banerji M, Chaiken R, Gordon D, Lebowitz H (1995) Does intra- abdominal adipose 
tissue in black men determine whether NIDDM is insulin- resistant or insulin sens -
itive? Diabetes, 44: 141–146.
Barnes MJ, Mündel T, Stannard SR (2010) Acute alcohol consumption aggravates the 
decline in muscle performance following strenuous eccentric exercise. Journal of 
Science and Medical Sport, 13: 189–193.
Barnett C, Costill DL, Vukovich MD, Cole KJ, Goodpaster BH, Trappe SW, Fink WJ 
(1994) Effect of L- carnitine supplementation on muscle and blood carnitine content 
and lactate accumulation during high- intensity sprint cycling. International Journal of 
Sport Nutrition, 4: 280–288.
Barone JJ, Roberts HR (1996) Caffeine consumption. Food and Chemical Toxicology , 34: 
119–129.

460  Bibliography
Bar- Or O, Rowland TW (2004) Physiologic and perceptual responses to exercise in healthy 
children. In Pediatric Exercise Medicine . Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, pp. 3–59.
Barreira TV, Kang M, Caputo JL, Farley RS, Renfrow MS (2009) Validation of the Acti -
heart Monitor for the Measurement of Physical Activity. International Journal of Exer-
cise Science, 2: 60–71.
Barrow MW, Clark KA (1998) Heat- related illnesses. American Family Physician , 58: 
749–756.
Bassett D, Jr (2000) Validity and reliability issues in objective monitoring of physical 
activity. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 71: 30–36.
Bauer J, Biolo G, Cederholm T, Cesari M, Cruz- Jentoft AJ, Morley JE, Phillips S, Sieber 
C, Stehle P, Teta D, Visvanathan R, Volpi E, Boirie Y (2013) Evidence- based recom -
mendations for optimal dietary protein intake in older people: a position paper from 
the PROT- AGE Study Group. Journal of American Medical Directors Association , 14: 
542–559.
Bell DG, Jacobs I, Ellerington K (2001) Effect of caffeine and ephedrine ingestion on 
anaerobic exercise performance. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 33: 
1399–1403.
Bell DG, McLellan TM, Sabiston CM (2002) Effect of ingesting caffeine and ephedrine 
on 10-km run performance, Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 34: 344–349.
Bell RD, MacDougall JD, Billeter R, Howald H (1980) Muscle fibers types and morpho-
metric analysis of skeletal muscle in six years old children. Medical Science and Sports 
Exercise, 12: 28–31.
Bentzur KM, Kravitz L, Lockner DW (2008) Evaluation of the BOD POD for estimating 
percent body fat in collegiate track and field female athletes: a comparison of four 
methods. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 22: 1985–1991.
Bikle DD (2004) Vitamin D and skin cancer. Journal of Nutrition, 134: 3472S–3478S.Billat V, Lepretre PM, Heugas AM, Laurence MH, Salim D, Koralsztein JP (2003) Train -
ing and bioenergetic characteristics in elite male and female Kenyan runners. Medi-
cine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 35: 297–304.
Binzen CA, Swan PD, Manore MM (2001) Postexercise oxygen consumption and sub -
strate use after resistance exercise in women. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exer -
cise, 33: 932–938.
Bishop D, Edge J, Davis C, Goodman C (2004) Induced metabolic alkalosis affects 
muscle metabolism and repeated- sprint ability. Medicine and Science in Sports Exercise , 
36: 807–813.
Blaak EE, van Aggel- Leijssen DPC, Wagenmakers AJM, Saris WHM, Baak MA (2000) 
Impaired oxidation of plasma- derived fatty acids in type 2 diabetic subjects during 
moderate- intensity exercise. Diabetes, 49: 2102–2107.
Black AE, Prentice AM, Coward WA (1986) Use of food quotients to predict respiratory 
quotients for the doubly labeled water method of measuring energy expenditure. Human Nutrition: Clinical Nutrition, 40: 381–391.
Black MM (2003) Micronutrient deficiencies and cognitive functioning. Journal of Nutri -
tion, 133: 3927S–3931S.
Blaxter K (1989) Energy Metabolism in Animal and Man . Cambridge: Cambridge University 
Press.
Block G (1989) Human dietary assessment: methods and issues. Preventive Medicine, 18: 
653–660.
Blomstrand E, Saltin B (2001) BCAA intake affects protein metabolism in muscle after 
but not during exercise in humans. American Journal of Physiology, 281: E365–374.
Bobkowski W, Nowak A, Durlach J (2005) The importance of magnesium status in the 
pathophysiology of mitral valve prolapse. Magnesium Research, 18: 35–52.

Bibliography   461
Bogardus C, Thuillez P, Ravussin E, Vasquez B, Narimiga M, Azhar S (1983) Effect of 
muscle glycogen depletion on in vivo insulin action in men. Journal of Clinical Investi -
gation, 72: 1605–1610.
Boobis L, William C, Wooton SA (1982) Human muscle metabolism during brief 
maximal exercise. Journal of Physiology, 338: 21–22.
Booth SL, Broe KE, Peterson JW, Cheng DM, Dawson- Hughes B, Gundberg CM, Cupples 
LA, Wilson PW, Kiel DP (2004) Associations between vitamin K biochemical meas -
ures and bone mineral density in men and women. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology 
and Metabolism, 89: 4904–4909.
Borchers JR, Clem KL, Habash DL, Nagaraja HN, Stokley LM, Best TM (2009) Metabolic 
syndromes and insulin resistance in division 1 collegiate football players. Medicine 
and Science in Sports and Exercise, 41: 2105–2110.
Borsheim E, Bahr R (2003) Effect of exercise intensity, duration, and mode on post- 
exercise oxygen consumption. Sports Medicine, 33: 1037–1060.
Bostick RM, Potter JD, McKenzie DR, Sellers TA, Kushi LH, Steinmetz KA, Folsom AR 
(1993) Reduced risk of colon cancer with high intake of vitamin E: the Iowa 
Women’s Health Study. Cancer Research, 15: 4230–4237.
Bouchard C, Tremblay A, Després JP, Nadeau A, Lupien PJ, Thériault G, Dussault J, 
Moorjani S, Pinault S, Fournier G (1990) The response to long- term overfeeding in 
identical twins. New England Journal of Medicine, 322: 1477–1482.
Bouten C, Verboeket- van de Venne W, Westerterp K, Verduin M, Janssen J (1996) Daily 
physical activity assessment: comparison between movement registration and doubly labeled water. Journal of Applied Physiology, 81: 1019–1026.
Brage S, Brage N, Franks PW, Ekelund U, Wong M, Anderson LB, Froberg K, Wareham 
NJ (2003) Branched equation modeling of simultaneous accelerometry and heart rate monitoring improves estimate of directly measured physical activity energy 
expenditure. Journal of Applied Physiology, 96: 343–351.
Braun B, Clarkson PM, Freedson PS, Kohl RL (1991) Effects of coenzyme Q 10 supple-
mentation on exercise performance, VO2max, and lipid peroxidation in trained 
cyclists. International Journal of Sport Nutrition, 1: 353–365.
Bravata DM, Sanders L, Huang J, Krumholz HM, Olkin I, Gardner CD, Bravata DM 
(2003) Efficacy and safety of low- carbohydrate diets: a systematic review. Journal of the 
American Medical Association, 289: 1837–1850.
Bray GA (1983) The energetics of obesity. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 15: 
32–40.
Bray GA, Gray DS (1988) Obesity. Part I – pathogenesis. Western Journal of Medicine, 149: 
429–441.
Bray GA, Whipp BJ, Koyal SN (1974) The acute effects of food on energy expenditure 
during cycle ergometry. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 27: 254–259.
Bredle DL, Stager JM, Brechue WF, Farber MO (1988) Phosphate supplementation, 
cardiovascular function, and exercise performance in humans. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 65: 1821–1826.
Brehm BJ, Seeley RJ, Daniels SR, D’Alessio DA (2003) A randomized trial comparing a 
very low carbohydrate diet and a calorie- restricted low fat diet on body weight and 
cardiovascular risk factors in healthy women. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and 
Metabolism, 88: 1617–1623.
Bremer J (1983) Carnitine–metabolism and functions. Physiological Reviews, 63: 
1420–1480.
Breslow RA, Smothers BA (2005) Association between alcohol consumption and body 
mass index, National Health Interview Surveys, 1997–2001. American Journal of Epide -
miology, 161: 368–376.

462  Bibliography
Brodie DA (1988) Techniques of measurement of body composition. Part I. Sports 
Medicine, 5: 11–40.
Broeder CE, Quindry J, Brittingham K, Panton L, Thomson J, Appakondu S, Breuel K, 
Byrd R, Douglas J, Earnest C, Mitchell C, Olson M, Roy T, Yarlagadda C (2000) The 
Andro Project: physiological and hormonal influences of androstenedione supple -
mentation in men 35 to 65 years old participating in a high- intensity resistance train -
ing program. Archives of International Medicine, 160: 3093–3104.
Brooks GA, Fahey TD, Baldwin KM (2005) Exercise Physiology – Human Bioenergetics and Its 
Applications . New York: McGraw Hill.
Brown GA, Vukovich MD, Martini ER, Kohut ML, Franke WD, Jackson DA, King DS 
(2000) Endocrine responses to chronic androstenedione intake in 30- to 56-year- old 
men. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, 85: 4074–4080.
Brozek J, Grande F, Anderson JT, Keys A (1963) Densitometric analysis of body composi -
tion; revision of some quantitative assumptions. Annals of the New York Academy of 
Science, 110: 113–140.
Bryan J, Osendarp S, Hughes D, Calvaresi E, Baghurst K, van Klinken JW (2004) Nutri-
ents for cognitive development in school- aged children. Nutrition Reviews, 62: 
295–306.
Buch I, Hornnes PJ, Kuhl C (1986) Glucose tolerance in early pregnancy. Acta Endocrino-
logica, 112: 263–266.
Buemann B, Tremblay A (1996) Effect of exercise training on abdominal obesity and 
related metabolic complications. Sports Medicine, 21: 191–212.
Burd NA, Tang JE, Moore DR, Phillips SM (2009) Exercise training and protein metabo -
lism: influences of contraction, protein intake, and sex- based differences. Journal of 
Applied Physiology, 106: 1692–1701.
Burgomaster KA, Howarth KR, Phillips SM, Rakobowchuk M, Macdonald MJ, McGee SL, 
Gibala MJ (2008) Similar metabolic adaptations during exercise after low volume sprint interval and traditional endurance training in humans. Journal of Physiology , 
586: 151–160.
Burke LM, Hawley JA (1999) Carbohydrate and exercise. Current Opinion on Clinical 
Nutrition Metabolism Care, 2: 515–520.
Burke LM, Read RS (1993) Dietary supplements in sport. Sports Medicine, 15: 43–65.
Burleson MA, O’Bryant HS, Stone MH, Collins MA, Triplett- McBride T (1998) Effect of 
weight training exercise and treadmill exercise on post- exercise oxygen consump -
tion. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 30: 518–522.
Burstein R, Epstein Y, Shapiro Y, Charuzi I, Karnieli E (1990) Effect of an acute bout of 
exercise on glucose disposal in human obesity. Journal of Applied Physiology , 69: 
299–304.
Cade R, Conte M, Zauner C, Mars D, Peterson J, Lunne D, Hommen N, Packer D (1984) 
Effects of phosphate loading on 2,3-diphosphoglycerate and maximal oxygen uptake. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 16: 263–268.
Calvo MS, Whiting SJ, Barton CN (2005) Vitamin D intake: a global perspective of 
current status. Journal of Nutrition, 135: 310–316.
Camacho RC, Galassetti P, Davis SN, Wasserman DH (2005) Glucoregulation during and 
after exercise in health and insulindependent diabetes. Exercise and Sport Science 
Review, 33: 17–23.
Campbell SE, Febbraio MA (2001) Effect of ovarian hormones on mitochondrial enzyme 
activity in fat oxidation pathway of skeletal muscle. American Journal of Physiology, 281: 
E803–E808.
Cancello R, Tounian A, Poitou Ch, Clément K (2004) Adiposity signals, genetic and 
body weight regulation in humans. Diabetes and Metabolism, 30: 215–227.

Bibliography   463
Candow DG, Chilibeck PD, Burke DG, Davison KS, Smith- Palmer T (2001) Effect of 
glutamine supplementation combined with resistance training in young adults. Euro-
pean Journal of Applied Physiology, 86: 142–149.
Carpenter WH, Fonong T, Toth MJ, Ades PA, Calles- Escandon J, Walston JD, Poehlman 
ET (1998) Total daily energy expenditure in free- living older African- Americans and 
Caucasians. American Journal of Physiology, 274: E96–E101.
Carter SL, Rennie C, Tarnopolsky MA (2001a) Substrate utilization during endurance 
exercise in men and women after endurance training. American Journal of Physiology , 
280: E898–E907.
Carter S, McKenzie S, Mourtzakis M, Mahoney DJ, Tarnopolsky MA (2001b) Short- term 
17ß-estradiol decreases glucose Ra but not whole body metabolism during endurance 
exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology, 90: 139–146.
Case MA, Burwick HA, Volpp KG, Patel MS (2015) Accuracy of smartphone applications 
and wearable devices for tracking physical activity data. Journal of the American Medical 
Association, 313: 625–626.
Caspersen CJ, Powell KE, Christensen GM (1985) Physical activity, exercise, and physical 
fitness: definitions and distinctions for health- related research. Public Health Reports, 
100: 126–131.
Castell LM, Poortmans JR, Newsholme EA (1996) Does glutamine have a role in redu -
cing infections in athletes? European Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational 
Physiology, 73: 488–490.
Cheetham ME, Boobis LH, Brooks S, Williams C (1986) Human muscle metabolism 
during sprint running. Journal of Applied Physiology, 61: 54–60.
Chen J (2012) An original discovery: selenium deficiency and Keshan disease (an 
endemic heart disease). Asia Pacific Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 21: 320–326.
Chester N, Reilly T, Mottram DR (2003) Physiological, subjective and performance 
effects of pseudoephedrine and phenylpropanolamine during endurance running exercise. International Journal of Sports Medicine
, 24: 3–8.
Chin ER, Allen DG (1998) The contribution of pH- dependent mechanisms to fatigue at dif -
ferent intensities in mammalian single muscle fibres. Journal of Physiology, 512: 831–840.
Chromiak JA, Antonio J (2002) Use of amino acids as growth hormone- releasing agents 
by athletes. Nutrition, 18: 657–661.
Chu KS, Doherty TJ, Parise G, Milheiro JS, Tarnopolsky MA (2002) A moderate dose of 
pseudoephedrine does not alter muscle contraction strength or anaerobic power, Clinical Journal of Sports Medicine, 12: 387–390.
Clancy SP, Clarkson PM, DeCheke ME, Nosaka K, Freedson PS, Cunningham JJ, Valen -
tine B (1994) Effects of chromium picolinate supplementation on body composition, strength, and urinary chromium loss in football players. International Journal of Sport 
Nutrition, 4: 142–153.
Clapp JF, Wesley M, Sleamaker RH (1987) Thermoregulatory and metabolic responses 
to jogging prior to and during pregnancy. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 
19: 124–130.
Cloherty EK, Sultzman LA, Zottola RJ, Carruthers A (1995) Net sugar transport is a mul -
tistep process. Evidence for cytosolic sugar binding sites in erythrocytes. Biochemistry, 
34: 15395–15406.
Close GL, Leckey J, Patterson M, Bradley W, Owens DJ, Fraser WD, Morton JP (2013) 
The effects of vitamin D(3) supplementation on serum total 25[OH]D concentra -
tion and physical performance: a randomised dose- response study. British Journal of 
Sports Medicine, 47: 692–696.
Coggan AR, Coyle EF (1991) Carbohydrate ingestion during prolonged exercise: effects 
on metabolism and performance. Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews , 19: 1–40.

464  Bibliography
Colberg SR, Hagberg JM, McCole SD, Zumda JM, Thompson PD, Kelley DE (1996) Uti -
lization of glycogen but not plasma glucose is reduced in individuals with NIDDM 
during mild- intensity exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology, 81: 2027–2033.
Collins MA, Millard- Stafford ML, Sparling PB, Snow TK, Rosskopf LB, Webb SA, Omer J 
(1999) Evaluation of the BOD POD for assessing body fat in collegiate football 
players. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 31: 1350–1356.
Conley KE, Jubrias SA, Esselman PC (2000) Oxidative capacity and ageing in human 
muscle. Journal of Physiology, 526: 203–210.
Connor SL, Connor WE (1997) Are fish oils beneficial in the prevention and treatment 
of coronary artery disease? American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 66: 1020S–1031S.
Cornelissen VA, Fagard RH (2005) Effect of resistance training on resting blood pres -
sure: a meta- analysis of randomized controlled trials.  Journal of Hypertension , 23: 
251–259.
Costill DL, Coyle E, Dalsky G, Evens W, Fink W, Hoopes D (1977) Effects of elevated 
plasma FFA and insulin on muscle glycogen usage during exercise. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 43: 695–699.
Coyle EF (1995) Substrate utilization during exercise in active people. American Journal 
of Clinical Nutrition, 61: 968S–979S.
Coyle EF, Jeukendrup AE, Wagenmakers AJ, Saris WH (1997) Fatty acids oxidation is 
directly regulated by carbohydrate metabolism during exercise. American Journal of 
Physiology, 273: E268–E275.
Coyle EF, Hamilton MT, González-Alonso J, Montain SJ, Ivy JL (1991) Carbohydrate 
metabolism during intense exercise when hyperglycemic. Journal of of Applied 
Physiology, 70: 834–840.
Craig WJ, Mangels AR (2009) American Dietetic Association Position of the American 
Dietetic Association: vegetarian diets. Journal of American Dietetic Association , 109: 
1266–1282.
Crawford D, Jeffery RW, French SA (2000) Can anyone successfully control their weight? 
Findings of a three year community- based study of men and women. International 
Journal of Obesity Related Metabolic Disords, 9: 1107–1110.
Cribb PJ, Hayes A (2006) Effects of supplement timing and resistance exercise on 
skeletal muscle hypertrophy. Medicine and Science in Sports Exercise, 38: 1918–1925.
Cunningham- Rundles S, McNeeley DF (2005) Mechanisms of nutrient modulation of 
the immune response. Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, 115: 1119–1128.
Cureton KJ, Sparling PB (1980) Distance running performance and metabolic responses 
to running in men and women with excess weight experimentally equated. Medicine 
and Science in Sports Exercise, 12: 288–294.
Currell K, Jeukendrup AE (2008) Superior endurance performance with ingestion of 
multiple transportable carbohydrates. Medicine and Science in Sports Exercise, 40: 
275–281.
Dangin M, Boirie Y, Garcia- Rodenas C, Gachon P, Fauquant J, Callier P, Ballevre O, 
Beaufrere B (2001) The digestion rate of protein is an independent regulating factor of postprandial protein retention. American Journal of Physiology, 280: E340–348.
Davidson M (1979) The effect of aging on carbohydrate metabolism: a review of diabetes 
mellitus in the elderly. Metabolism, 28: 688–705.
Davies CTM, Barnes C, Godfrey S (1972) Body composition and maximal exercise per -
formance in children. Human Biology, 44: 195–214.
Davis JM, Alderson NL, Welsh RS (2000) Serotonin and central nervous system fatigue: 
nutritional considerations. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 72(2 Suppl): 573S–578S.
De Bandt JP, Coudray- Lucas C, Lioret N, Lim SK, Saizy R, Giboudeau J, Cynober L 
(1998) A randomized controlled trial of the influence of the mode of enteral 

Bibliography   465
ornithine alpha- ketoglutarate administration in burn patients. Journal of Nutrition, 
128: 563–569.
De Glisezinski I, Harant I, Crampes F, Trudeau F, Felez A, Cottet- Emard JM, Garrigues 
M, Riviere D (1998) Effects of carbohydrate ingestion on adipose tissue lipolysis 
during long- lasting exercise in trained men, Journal of Applied Physiology , 84: 
1627–1632.
DeFronzo RA, Ferrannini E, Sato Y, Felig P, Wahren J (1981) Synergistic interaction 
between exercise and insulin on peripheral glucose uptake. Journal of Clinical Investi-
gations, 68: 1468–1474.
DeFronzo RA, Gunnarsson R, Bjorkman D, Olsson M, Warren J (1985) Effects of insulin 
on peripheral and splanchnic glucose metabolism in noninsulin- dependent (type II) 
diabetes mellitus. Journal of Clinical Investigations, 76: 149–155.
DeFronzo RA, Tobin JD, Andres R (1979) Glucose clamp technique: a method for 
quantifying insulin secretion and resistance. American Journal of Physiology , 237: 
E214–E223.
DeMeersman R, Gatty D, Schaffer D (1987) Sympathomimetics and exercise enhance -
ment: all in the mind? Pharmacology, Biochemistry, and Behavior, 28: 361–365.
Deon T, Braun B (2002) The roles of estrogen and progesterone in regulating carbohy -
drate and fat utilization at rest and during exercise. Journal of Women’s Health and 
Gender- based Medicine , 11: 225–237.
Devlin JT, Horton ES (1985) Effect of prior high intensity exercise on glucose metabo -
lism in normal and insulin- resistant men. Diabetes, 34: 973–979.
Devlin JT, Hirshman M, Horton ED, Horton ES (1987) Enhanced peripheral and 
splanchnic insulin sensitivity in NIDDM men after single bout of exercise. Diabetes, 
36: 434–439.
Dietz WH, Bellizzi MC (1999) Introduction: the use of body mass index to assess obesity 
in children. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 70: 123S–125S.
Dill DB, Consolazio CF (1962) Responses to exercise as related to age and environ -
mental temperature. Journal of Applied Physiology, 17: 645–648.
Dohm G, Kasperek GJ, Tapscott EB, Barakat HA (1987) Protein degradation during 
endurance exercise and recovery. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 19: 
S166–S171.
Dolny D, Lemon P (1988) Effect of ambient temperature on protein breakdown during 
prolonged exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology, 64: 550–555.
Donati L, Ziegler F, Pongelli G, Signorini MS (1999) Nutritional and clinical efficacy of 
ornithine alpha- ketoglutarate in severe burn patients. Clinical Nutrition, 18: 307–311.
Donnelly JE, Blair SN, Jakicic JM, Manore MM, Rankin JW, Smith BK (2009) American 
College of Sports Medicine Position Stand. Appropriate physical activity intervention 
strategies for weight loss and prevention of weight regain for adults. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 41: 459–471.
Donnelly JE, Jacobsen DJ, Snyder- Heelan K, Seip R, Smith S (2000) The effects of 18 
months of intermittent vs. continuous exercise on aerobic capacity, body weight and composition, and metabolic fitness in previously sedentary, moderately obese 
females. International Journal of Obesity, 24: 566–572.
Duffy DJ, Conlee RK (1986) Effects of phosphate loading on leg power and high 
intensity treadmill exercise. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 18: 674–677.
Elia M, Ritz P, Stubbs RJ (2000) Total energy expenditure in the elderly. European Journal 
of Clinical Nutrition, 54: S92–S103.
Ellis GS, Lanza- Jacoby S, Gow A, Kendrick ZV (1994) Effect of estradiol on lipoprotein 
lipase activity and lipid availability in exercised male rats. Journal of Applied Physiology , 
77: 209–215.

466  Bibliography
Elowsson P, Forslund AH, Mallmin H, Feuk U, Hansson I, Carlsten J (1998) An evaluation 
of dual- energy X- Ray absorptiometry and underwater weighing to estimate body com -
position by means of carcass analysis in piglets. Journal of Nutrition, 128: 1543–1549.
El- Sayed MS, Ali N, El- Sayed Ali Z (2005) Interaction between alcohol and exercise: 
physiological and haematological implications. Sports Medicine, 35: 257–269.
Emmert DH, Kirchner JT (1999) The role of vitamin E in the prevention of heart 
disease. Archives of Family Medicine, 8: 537–542.
Eriksson BO, Gollnick PD, Saltin B (1973) Muscle metabolism and enzyme activities 
after training in boys 11–13 years old. Acta Physiologica Scandica, 87: 485–497.
Eriksson BO, Karlsson J, Saltin B (1971) Muscle metabolites during exercise in pubertal 
boys. Acta Paediatrica Scandica, 217(Suppl): 154–157.
Esparza J, Fox C, Harper IT, Bennett PH, Schulz LO, Valencia ME, Ravussin E (2000) 
Daily energy expenditure in Mexican and USA Pima Indians: low physical activity as 
a possible cause of obesity. International Journal of Obesity Related Metabolic Disorders , 24: 
55–59.
Essig D, Costill DL, Van Handel PJ (1980) Effect of caffeine ingestion on utilization of 
muscle glycogen and lipid during leg ergometry cycling. International Journal of Sports 
Medicine, 1: 86–90.
Eston RG, Rowlands AV, Ingledew DK (1998) Validity of heart rate, pedometry, and 
accelerometry for predicting the energy cost of children’s activities. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 84: 362–371.
Evans GW (1989) The effect of chromium picolinate on insulin controlled parameters 
in humans. International Journal of Biosocial and Medical Research, 11: 163–180.
Failla ML (2003) Trace elements and host defense: recent advances and continuing chal -
lenges. Journal of Nutrition, 133: 1443S–1447S.
Falk B, Bar- Or O, Calvert R, MacDougall JD (1992) Sweat gland response to exercise in 
the heat among pre-, mid-, and late- pubertal boys. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 24: 313–319.
Fawkner SG, Armstrong N (2003) Oxygen uptake kinetic response to exercise in chil -
dren. Sports Medicine, 33: 651–669.
Felig P, Wahren J (1971) Amino acids metabolism in exercising man. Journal of Clinical 
Investigations, 50: 2703–2714.
Ferrando AA, Green NR (1993) The effect of boron supplementation on lean body 
mass, plasma testosterone levels, and strength in male bodybuilders. International 
Journal of Sport Nutrition, 3: 140–149.
Ferrannini E (1988) The theoretical basis of indirect calorimetry: a review. Metabolism, 
37: 287–301.
Ferranini E, Barrett EJ, Bevilacqua S, DeFronzo R (1983) Effects of fatty acids on glucose 
production and utilization in man. Journal of Clinical Investigations, 72: 1737–1747.
Ferrara CM, Goldberg AP, Ortmeyer HK, Ryan AS (2006) Effects of aerobic and resistive 
exercise training on glucose disposal and skeletal muscle metabolism in older men. 
Journal of Gerontology, 61: 480–487.
Feskanich D, Rimm EB, Giovannucci EL, Colditz GA, Stampfer MJ, Litin LB, Willett WC 
(1993) Reproducibility and validity of food intake measurements from a semiquanti -
tative food frequency questionnaire. Journal of the American Dietetic Association , 93: 
790–796.
Fielding RA, Parkington J (2002) What are the dietary protein requirements of physic -
ally active individuals? New evidence on the effects of exercise on protein utilization 
during post- exercise recovery. Nutrition in Clinical Care, 5: 191–196.
Fine BJ, Kobrick JL, Lieberman HR, Marlowe B, Riley RH, Tharion WJ (1994) Effects of 
caffeine or diphenhydramine on visual vigilance. Psychopharmacology, 114: 233–238.

Bibliography   467
Fletcher RH, Fairfield KM (2002) Vitamins for chronic disease prevention in adults: 
clinical applications. Journal of the American Medical Association, 287: 3127–3129.
Fogelholm GM, Näveri HK, Kiilavuori KT, Härkönen MH (1993) Low- dose amino acid 
supplementation: no effects on serum human growth hormone and insulin in male 
weightlifters. International Journal of Sport Nutrition, 3: 290–297.
Foster GD, Wyatt HR, Hill JO, McGuckin BG, Brill C, Mohammed BS, Szapary PO, Rader 
DJ, Edman JS, Klein S (2003) A randomized trial of a low- carbohydrate diet for 
obesity. New England Journal of Medicine, 348: 2082–2090.
Foster- Powell K, Holt Susanna HA, Brand- Miller JC (2002) International table of glyc -
emic index and glycemic load values. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 76: 5–56.
Fraker PJ, King LE, Laakko T, Vollmer TL (2000) The dynamic link between the integ-
rity of the immune system and zinc status. Journal of Nutrition, 130: 1399S–1406S.
Francis PR, Witucki AS, Buono MJ (1999) Physiological response to a typical studio 
cycling session. ACSM Health and Fitness Journal, 3: 30–36.
Frayn KN (2000) Calculation of substrate oxidation rates in vivo from gaseous exchange. 
Journal of Applied Physiology, 55: 628–634.
Freedson PS, Miller K (2000) Objective monitoring of physical activity using motion 
sensors and heart rate. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 71: 21–29.
Frexes- Steed M1, Lacy DB, Collins J, Abumrad NN (1992) Role of leucine and other 
amino acids in regulating protein metabolism in vivo. American Journal of Physiology , 
262: E925–E935.
Friedman MI (1995) Control of energy intake by energy metabolism. American Journal of 
Clinical Nutrition, 62: 1096S–1100S.
Frisancho AR, Flegel PN (1983) Elbow breadth as a measure of frame size for US males 
and females. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 37: 311–314.
Fruin ML, Walberg Rankin J (2004) Validity of multi- sensor armband in estimating rest and 
exercise energy expenditure. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 36: 1063–1069.
Fryan KN (2000) Viseral fat and insulin resistance – causative or correlative? British 
Journal of Nutrition, 83(Suppl. 1): S71–S77.
Fung TT, Hu FB, Pereira MA, Liu S, Stampfer MJ, Colditz GA, Willett WC (2002) Whole- 
grain intake and the risk of type 2 diabetes: a prospective study in men. American 
Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 76: 535–540.
Galloway SD, Tremblay MS, Sexsmith JR, Roberts CJ (1996) The effects of acute phos -
phate supplementation in subjects of different aerobic fitness levels. European Journal 
of Applied Physiology and Occupational Physiology, 72: 224–230.
Gambling L, Danzeisen R, Fosset C, Andersen HS, Dunford S, Srai SK, McArdle HJ 
(2003) Iron and copper interactions in development and the effect on pregnancy 
outcome. Journal of Nutrition, 133: 1554S–1556S.
Ganji SH, Kamanna VS, Kashyap ML (2003) Niacin and cholesterol: role in cardiovas-
cular disease (review). Journal of Nutritional Biochemistry, 14: 298–305.
Gardner JW, Kark JA, Karnei K, Sanborn JS, Gastaldo E, Burr P, Wenger CB (1996) Risk 
factors predicting exertional heat illness in male Marine Corps recruits. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 28: 939–944.
Garrow JS (1995) Exercise in the treatment of obesity: a marginal contribution. Inter-
national Journal of Obesity, 19: S126–S129.
Gatalano PM, Tyzbir ED, Roman NM (1991) Longitudinal changes in insulin release 
and insulin resistance in non- obese pregnant women. American Journal of Obstetrics 
and Gynecology, 165: 1667–1672.
Gatalano PM, Tyzbir ED, Wolfe RR, Roman NM, Amini SB, Sims EAH (1992) Longitudinal 
changes in basal hepatic glucose production and suppression during insulin infusion in 
normal pregnant women. American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 167: 913–919.

468  Bibliography
Gauche E, Lepers R, Rabita G, Leveque JM, Bishop D, Brisswalter J, Hausswirth C (2006) 
Vitamin and mineral supplementation and neuromuscular recovery after a running 
race. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 38: 2110–2117.
Giamberardino MA, Dragani L, Valente R, Di Lisa F, Saggini R, Vecchiet L (1996) 
Effects of prolonged L- carnitine administration on delayed muscle pain and CK 
release after eccentric effort. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 17: 320–324.
Gibala M (2002) Dietary protein, amino acid supplements, and recovery from exercise. 
Sports Science Exchange , 15: 1–4.
Gibala MJ, Little JP, MacDonald MJ, Hawley JA (2012) Physiological adaptations to low- 
volume, high- intensity interval training in health and disease. Journal of Physiology , 
590: 1077–1084.
Gill ND, Shield A, Blazevich AJ, Zhou S, Weatherby RP (2000) Muscular and cardiorespi -
ratory effects of pseudoephedrine in human athletes. British Journal of Clinical Phar -
macology, 50: 205–213.
Gillette CA, Bullough RC, Melby CL (1994) Post- exercise energy expenditure in 
response to acute aerobic or resistive exercise. International Journal of Sports Nutrition , 
4: 347–360.
Gisolfi CV, Cohen JS (1979) Relationships among training, heat acclimation, and heat 
tolerance in men and women: the controversy revisited. Medicine and Science in Sports 
and Exercise, 11: 56–59.
Gleeson M, Bishop NC (2000) Elite athlete immunology: importance of nutrition. Inter-
national Journal of Sports Medicine, 21: S44–S50.
Goldberg AL, Chang TW (1978) Regulation and significance of amino acid metabolism 
in skeletal muscle. Federation Proceedings, 37: 2301–2307.
Gollnick P (1985) Metabolism of substrates: energy substrate metabolism during exer -
cise and as modified by training. Federation Proceedings, 44: 353–356.
Gollnick PD, Piehl K, Saltin B (1974) Selective glycogen depletion pattern in human 
muscle fibers after exercise of varying intensity and at varying pedal rates. Journal of 
Physiology, 241: 45–57.
Gomez- Cabrera MC, Domenech E, Romagnoli M, Arduini A, Borras C, Pallardo FV, 
Sastre J, Vina J (2008) Oral administration of vitamin C decreases muscle mitochon -
drial biogenesis and hampers training- induced adaptations in endurance perform -
ance. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 87: 142–149.
González-Alonso J, Calbet JA, Nielsen B (1999) Metabolic and thermodynamic responses 
to dehydration- induced reductions in muscle blood flow in exercising humans. 
Journal of Physiology, 520(Pt 2): 577–589.
Goodpaster BH, Thaete FL, Kelley DE (2000) Thigh adipose tissue distribution is associ -
ated with insulin resistance in obesity and in type 2 diabetes mellitus. American Journal 
of Clinical Nutrition, 71: 885–892.
Goodpaster BH, Wolfe RR, Kelley DE (2002) Effect of obesity on substrate utilization 
during exercise. Obesity Research, 10: 575–584.
Goodpaster BH, Kelley DE, Wing RR, Meier A, Thaete FL (1999) Effects of weight loss 
on regional fat distribution and insulin sensitivity in obesity. Diabetes, 48: 839–847.
Goran MI, Poehlman ET (1992) Total energy expenditure and energy requirements in 
healthy elderly persons. Metabolism, 41: 744–753.
Gougeon R, Harrigan K, Tremblay JF, Hedrei P, Lamarche M, Morais JA (2005)  Increase 
in the thermic effect of food in women by adrenergic amines extracted from citrus aurantium. Obesity Research, 13: 1187–1194.
Graham S, Zielezny M, Marshall J, Priore R, Freudenheim J, Brasure J, Haughey B, Nasca 
P, Zdeb M (1992) Diet in the epidemiology of postmenopausal breast cancer in the 
New York State Cohort. American Journal of Epidemiology, 136: 1327–1337.

Bibliography   469
Graham TE (2001) Caffeine, coffee and ephedrine: impact on exercise performance 
and metabolism. Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology, 26: S103–S119.
Graham TE, MacLean DA (1992) Ammonia and amino acid metabolism in human skeletal 
muscle during exercise, Canadian Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology, 70: 132–141.
Graham TE, Helge JW, MacLean DA, Kiens B, Richter EA (2000) Caffeine ingestion 
does not alter carbohydrate or fat metabolism in human skeletal muscle during exer -
cise. Journal of Physiology, 529: 837–847.
Grant JP, Custer PB, Thurlow J (1981) Current techniques of nutritional assessment. Sur-
gical Clinics of North America, 61: 437–463.
Green AL, Hultman E, Macdonald IA, Sewell DA, Greenhaff PL (1996) Carbohydrate 
ingestion augments skeletal muscle creatine accumulation during creatine supple -
mentation in humans. American Journal of Physiology, 271: E821–E826.
Green SM, Blundell JE (1996) Effect of fat- and sucrose- containing foods on the size of 
eating episodes and energy intake in lean dietary restrained and unrestrained 
females: potential for causing overconsumption. European Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 
50: 625–635.
Greiwe JS, Staffey KS, Melrose DR, Narve MD, Knowlton RG (1998) Effects of dehydra -
tion on isometric muscular strength and endurance. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 30: 284–288.
Gross MD (2005) Vitamin D and calcium in the prevention of prostate and colon cancer: 
new approaches for the identification of needs. Journal of Nutrition, 135: 326–331.
Gross M, Baum O, Hoppeler H (2011) Antioxidant supplementation and endurance 
training: win or loss? European Journal of Sports Science, 11: 27–32.
Guenther PM (1994) Research needs for dietary assessment and monitoring in the 
United States. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 59(1 Suppl): 168S–170S.
Guerrero- Romero F, Rodríguez-Morán M (2005) Complementary therapies for diabetes: 
the case for chromium, magnesium, and antioxidants. Archives of Medical Research , 36: 
250–257.
Gutiérrez-Hellín J, Salinero JJ, Abían-Vicen J, Areces F, Lara B, Gallo C, Puente C, Del 
Coso J (2016) Acute consumption of p- synephrine does not enhance performance in 
sprint athletes. Applied Physiology and Nutrition Metabolism, 41: 63–69.
Hackney AC (1990) Effects of menstrual cycle on resting muscle glycogen content. 
Hormone and Metabolic Research , 22: 647.
Hackney AC, McCracken- Compton MA, Ainsworth B (1994) Substrate responses to sub -
maximal exercise in the midfollicular and midluteal phases of the menstrual cycle. 
International Journal of Sport Nutrition, 4: 299–308.
Hakim AA, Curb JD, Petrovich H (1999) Effects of walking on coronary heart disease in 
elderly men: the Honolulu Heart Study. Circulation , 100: 9–13.
Hallmark MA, Reynolds TH, DeSouza CA, Dotson CO, Anderson RA, Rogers MA (1996) 
Effects of chromium and resistive training on muscle strength and body composi -
tion. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 28: 139–144.
Halton RW, Kraemer RR, Sloan RA, Hebert EP, Frank K, Tryniecki JL (1999) Circuit 
weight training and its effect on excess postexercise oxygen consumption. Medicine 
and Science in Sports and Exercise, 31: 1613–1618.
Hamilton KS, Gibbons FK, Lacy DP, Cherrington AD, Wasserman DH (1996) Effect of 
prior exercise on the partitioning of an intestinal glucose load between splanchnic 
bed and skeletal muscle. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 98: 125–135.
Hargreaves M (2006) Skeletal muscle carbohydrate metabolism during exercise. In Har -
greaves M, Spriet L, eds. Exercise Metabolism . Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, pp. 29–44.
Hargreaves M, Proietto J (1994) Glucose kinetics during exercise in trained men. Acta 
Physioligica Scandinavica, 150: 221–225.

470  Bibliography
Harris DM, Go VLW (2004) Vitamin D and colon carcinogenesis. Journal of Nutrition, 
134: 3463S–3471S.
Harris JA, Benedict FG (1918) A biometric study of human basal metabolism. Proceedings 
of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 4: 370–373.
Harris JA, Benedict FG (1919) A Biometric Study of Basal Metabolism in Man . Washington, 
DC: Carnegie Institution.
Haskell WL, Yee MC, Evans A, Irby PJ (1993) Simultaneous measurement of heart rate 
and body motion to quantitate physical activity. Medicine and Science in Sports , 25: 
109–115.
Hasten DL, Rome EP, Franks BD, Hegsted M (1992) Effects of chromium picolinate on 
beginning weight training students. International Journal of Sport Nutrition, 2: 343–350.
Hatano Y (1993) Use of the pedometer for promoting daily walking exercise. Journal of 
International Council for HPER , 29: 4–8.
Hawley JA, Schabort EJ, Noakes TD, Dennis SC (1997) Carbohydrate- loading and exer -
cise performance. An update. Sports Medicine, 24: 73–81.
Heath BH, Carter JE (1967) A modified somatotype method. American Journal of Physical 
Anthropology, 27: 57–74.
Heath GW, Gavin JR III, Hinderliter JM, Hagberg JM, Bloomfield SA, Holloszy JO 
(1983) Effects of exercise and lack of exercise on glucose tolerance and insulin sens -
itivity. Journal of Applied Physiology, 55: 512–517.
Heath GW, Gavin JR III, Hinderliter JM, Hagberg JM, Bloomfield SA, Hebert DN, Carru -
thers A (1992) Glucose transporter oligomeric structure determines transporter 
function: reversible redox- dependent interconversions of tetrameric and dimeric 
GLUT1. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 267: 23829–23838.
Hebert DN, Carruthers A (1992) Glucose transporter oligomeric structure determines 
transporter function: reversible redox- dependent interconversions of tetrameric and 
dimeric GLUT1. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 267: 23829–23838.
Hebestreit H, Kriemler S, Hughson RL, Bar- Or O (1998) Kinetics of oxygen uptake at 
the onset of exercise in boys and men. Journal of Applied Physiology, 85: 1833–1841.
Hedayati SS1, Minhajuddin AT, Ijaz A, Moe OW, Elsayed EF, Reilly RF, Huang CL 
(2012) Association of urinary sodium/potassium ratio with blood pressure: sex and 
racial differences. Clinical Journal of the American Society of Nephrology, 7: 315–322.
Heinonen OJ (1996) Carnitine and physical exercise. Sports Medicine, 22: 109–132.
Hendelman D, Miller K, Baggett C, Debold E, Freedson P (2000) Validity of accelerome -
try for the assessment of moderate intensity physical activity in the field. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 32: S442–S449.
Heyward VH (2002) Advanced Fitness Assessment and Exercise Prescription  (4th edn). Cham-
paign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Heyward VH (2010) Advanced Fitness Assessment and Exercise Prescription , 6th edn. Cham -
paign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Heyward VH, Stolarczyk LM (1996) Applied Body Composition Assessment . Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics.
Hill RJ, Davis PS (2002) Energy intake and energy expenditure in elite lightweight 
female rowers. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 34: 1823–1827.
Holick MF (2004) Sunlight and vitamin D for bone health and prevention of autoimmu -
nine diseases, cancers, and cardiovascular disease. American Journal of Clinical Nutri -
tion, 80(6 Suppl): 1678S–1688S.
Holick MF, Chen TC (2008) Vitamin D deficiency: a worldwide problem with health 
consequences. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 87: 1080S–1086S.
Holloszy J (1983) Effects of exercise and lack of exercise on glucose tolerance and 
insulin sensitivity. Journal of Applied Physiology, 55: 512–517.

Bibliography   471
Holloszy J, Coyle E (1984) Adaptations of skeletal muscle to endurance exercise and 
their metabolic consequences. Journal of Applied Physiology, 56: 831–838.
Holloszy JO, Chen M, Cartee GD, Young JC (1991) Skeletal muscle atrophy in old rats: 
differential changes in the three fibers types, Mechanisms of Ageing and Development , 
60: 199–213.
Holmes B, Dick K, Nelson M (2008) A comparison of four dietary assessment methods 
in materially deprived households in England. Public Health and Nutrition , 11: 
444–456.
Holten MK, Zacho M, Gaster M, Juel C, Wojtaszewski JF, Dela F (2004) Strength training 
increases insulin- mediated glucose uptake, GLUT4 content, and insulin signaling in 
skeletal muscle in patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes, 53: 294–305.
Horowitz JF, Klein S (2000) Oxidation of nonplasma fatty acids during exercise is 
increased in women with abdominal obesity. Journal of Applied Physiology , 89: 
2276–2282.
Horswill CA (1995) Effects of bicarbonate, citrate, and phosphate loading on perform -
ance. International Journal of Sport Nutrition, 5: S111–S119.
Howatson G, Hoad M, Goodall S, Tallent J, Bell PG, French DN (2012) Exercise- induced 
muscle damage is reduced in resistance- trained males by branched chain amino 
acids: a randomized, double- blind, placebo controlled study. Journal of the Inter -
national Society of Sports Nutrition , 9: 20.
Hultman E, Greenhaff PL, Ren JM, Söderlund K (1991) Energy metabolism and fatigue 
during intense muscle contraction. Biochemical Society Transactions, 19: 347–353.
Hultman E, Söderlund K, Timmons JA, Cederblad G, Greenhaff PL (1996) Muscle crea -
tine loading in men. Journal of Applied Physiology, 81: 232–237.
Hunter G, Blackman L, Dunnam L, Flemming G (1988) Bench press metabolic rate as a 
function of exercise intensity. Journal of Applied Sports Science Research , 2: 1–6.
Hunter G, Kekes- Szabo T, Schnitzler A (1992) Metabolic cost: vertical work ratio during 
knee extension and knee flexion weight- training exercise. Journal of Applied Sports 
Science Research, 6: 42–48.
Inder WJ, Swanney MP, Donald RA, Prickett TC, Hellemans J (1998) The effect of 
glycerol and desmopressin on exercise performance and hydration in triathletes. 
Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 30: 1263–1269.
Institute of Medicine (2005) Dietary Reference Intakes for Energy, Carbohydrate, Fiber, Fat, 
Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids (Macronutrients) . Washington, DC: 
National Academies Press.
Institute of Medicine (US) Panel on Micronutrients (2001) Dietary Reference Intakes for 
Vitamin A, Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron, Chromium, Copper, Iodine, Iron, Manganese, Moly-
bdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc . Washington, DC: National Academies Press.
Institute of Medicine Food and Nutrition Board (2002) Dietary Reference Intakes for 
Energy, Carbohydrate, Fiber, Fat, Protein, and Amino Acids . Washington, DC: National 
Academies Press.
Inui A, Asakawa A, Bowers CY, Mantovani G, Laviano A, Meguid MM, Fujimiya M (2004) 
Ghrelin, appetite, and gastric motility: the emerging role of the stomach as an endo -
crine organ. The FASEB Journal, 18: 439–456.
Isidori A, Lo Monaco A, Cappa M (1981) A study of growth hormone release in man 
after oral administration of amino acids. Current Medical Research and Opinion , 7: 
475–481.
Issekutz B, Paul P (1968) Intramuscular energy sources in exercising normal and pan -
createcotomized dogs. American Journal of Physiology, 215: 197–204.
Ivy JL, Lee MC, Brozinick JT Jr, Reed MJ (1988a) Muscle glycogen storage after different 
amounts of carbohydrate ingestion. Journal of Applied Physiology, 65: 2018–2023.

472  Bibliography
Ivy JL, Katz AL, Cutler CL, Sherman WM, Coyle EF (1988b) Muscle glycogen synthesis 
after exercise: effect of time of carbohydrate ingestion. Journal of Applied Physiology , 
64: 1480–1485.
Ivy JL, Frishberg BA, Farrell SW, Miller WJ, Sherman WM (1985) Effect of elevated and 
exercise- induced muscle glycogen levels on insulin sensitivity. Journal of Applied Physi -
ology, 59: 154–159.
Izawa T, Komabayashi T, Mochizuki T, Suda K, Tsuboi M (1991) Enhanced coupling of 
adenylate cyclase to lipolysis in permeabilized adipocyes from trained rats. Journal of 
Applied Physiology, 71: 23–29.
Jackson AS, Pollock ML (1978) Generalized equations for predicting body density of 
men. British Journal of Nutrition, 40: 497–504.
Jackson AS, Pollock ML, Ward A (1980) Generalized equations for predicting body 
density of women. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 12: 175–182.
Jackson JL, Lesho E, Peterson C (2000) Zinc and the common cold: a meta- analysis revis -
ited. Journal of Nutrition, 130: 1512S–1515S.
Jacqmain M, Doucet E, Despres J, Bouchard C, Tremblay A (1991) Calcium intake and 
body composition in adults. Obesity Research , 9(Suppl): 175A.
Jakicic JM, Wing RR, Butler BA, Robertson RJ (1995) Prescribing exercise in multiple 
short bouts versus one continuous bout: effect on adherence, cardiorespiratory 
fitness, and weight loss in overweight women. International Journal of Obesity , 19: 
893–901.
Jakicic JM, Winters C, Lang W, Wing RR (1999) Effects of intermittent exercise and use 
of home exercise equipment on adherence, weight loss, and fitness in overweight 
women: a randomized trial. Journal of the American Medical Association , 282: 
1554–1560.
Jakicic JM, Marcus M, Gallagher KI, Randall C, Thomas E, Goss FL, Robertson RJ (2004) 
Evaluation of SenseWear Pro ArmbandTM to access energy expenditure during exer -
cise, Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 36: 897–904.
Jakicic JM, Clark K, Coleman E, Donnelly JE, Foreyt J, Melanson E, Volek J, Volpe SL 
(2001) American College of Sports Medicine position stand: appropriate interven -
tion strategies for weight loss and prevention of weight regain for adults. Medicine 
and Science in Sports and Exercise, 33: 2145–2156.
Jang KT, Flynn MG, Costill DL, Kirwan JP, Houmard JA, Mitchell JB, D’Acquisto LJ 
(1987) Energy balance in competitive swimmers and runners. Journal of Swimming 
Research, 3: 19–24.
Jansson PA, Smith U, Lonnroth P (1990) Interstitial glycerol concentration measured by 
microdialysis in two subcutaneous regions in humans. American Journal of Physiology , 
258: E918–E922.
Janz KF, Witt J, Mahoney LT (1995) The stability of children’s physical activity as meas -
ured by accelerometry and self- report. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 27: 
1326–1332.
Jeukendrup AE (2004) Carbohydrate intake during exercise and performance. Nutrition, 
20: 669–677.
Jeukendrup AE, Jentjens R (2000) Oxidation of carbohydrate feedings during pro -
longed exercise: current thoughts, guidelines and directions for future research. Sports Medicine, 29: 407–424.
Jeukendrup AE, Gleeson M (2010) Sports Nutrition: An Introduction to Energy Production 
and Performance, 2nd edn. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Johansson L, Solvoll K, Bjørneboe GE, Drevon CA (1998) Under- and overreporting of 
energy intake related to weight status and lifestyle in a nationwide sample. American 
Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 68(2): 266–274.

Bibliography   473
Jones AM (2014) Dietary nitrate supplementation and exercise performance. Sports Medi-
cine, 44(Suppl 1): S35–S45.
Kaciuba- Uscilko H, Grucza R (2001) Gender differences in thermoregulation. Current 
Opinion in Clinical Nutrition and Metabolic Care, 4: 533–536.
Kang J, Edward EC, Mastrangelo MA, Hoffman JR, Ratamess NA, O’Connor E (2005a) 
Metabolic and perceptual responses during Spinning® cycle exercise. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 37: 53–59.
Kang J, Hoffman JR, Im J, Spiering BA, Ratamess NA, Rundell KW, Nioka S, Cooper J, 
Chance B (2005b) Evaluation of physiological responses during recovery following 
three resistance exercise programs. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research , 19: 
305–309.
Kang J, Hoffman JR, Ratamess NA, Faigenbaum AD, Falvo M, Wendell M (2007) Effect 
of exercise intensity on fat utilization in males and females. Research in Sports Medi -
cine, 15: 175–188.
Kang J, Kelley DE, Roberston RJ, Goss FL, Suminski RR, Utter AC, Dasilva SG (1999) 
Substrate utilization and glucose turnover during exercise of varying intensities in 
individuals with NIDDM. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 31: 82–89.
Kang J, Robertson RJ, Hagberg JM, Kelley DE, Goss FL, DaSilva SG, Suminski RR, Utter 
AC (1996) Effect of exercise intensity on glucose and insulin metabolism in obese individuals and obese NIDDM patients. Diabetes Care, 19: 341–349.
Kaplan GB, Greenblatt DJ, Ehrenberg BL, Goddard JE, Cotreau MM, Harmatz JS, 
Shader RI (1997) Dose- dependent pharmacokinetics and psychomotor effects of 
caffeine in humans. Journal of Clinical Pharmacology, 37: 693–703.
Karlsson J, Diamant B, Saltin B (1970) Muscle metabolites during submaximal and 
maximal exercise in man. Scandinavian Journal of Clinical Lab Investigations , 26: 
385–394.
Katan MB, Zock PL, Mensink RP (1995) Dietary oils, serum lipoproteins, and coronary 
heart disease. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 61: 1368S–1373S.
Katch VL, Freedson PS, Katch FI, Smith L (1982) Body frame size: validity of self- 
appraisal. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 36: 676–679.
Katch VL, Katch FI, Moffatt R, Gittleson M (1980) Muscular development and lean body 
weight in body builders and weight lifters. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 
12: 340–344.
Kelley DE (2005) Skeletal muscle fat oxidation: timing and flexibility are everything. 
Journal of Clinical Investigations, 115: 1699–1702.
Kelley DE, Mokan M, Mandarino LJ (1992) Intracellular defects in glucose metabolism 
in obese patients with NIDDM. Diabetes, 41: 698–706.
Kendrick ZV, Steffen C, Rumsey W, Goldberg D (1987) Effect of estradiol on tissue 
glycogen metabolism in exercise oophorectomized rats. Journal of Applied Physiology , 
63: 492–496.
Kennedy C, Sokoloff L (1957) An adaptation of the nitrous oxide methods to the study 
of the cerebral circulation of children: normal values for cerebral blood flow and 
cerebral metabolic rate in childhood. Journal of Clinical Investigations, 36: 1130–1137.
Kenney WL, Chiu P (2001) Influence of age on thirst and fluid intake. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 33: 1524–1532.
Keys A, Brozek J (1953) Body fat in adult man. Physiology Review, 33: 245–325.
King DS, Dalsky GP, Staten MA, Clutter WE, van Houten DR, Holloszy JO (1987) Insulin 
action and secretion in endurance- trained and untrained humans. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 63: 2247–2252.
King DS, Sharp RL, Vukovich MD, Brown GA, Reifenrath TA, Uhl NL, Parsons KA 
(1999) Effect of oral androstenedione on serum testosterone and adaptations to 

474  Bibliography
resistance training in young men: a randomized controlled trial. Journal of the 
American Medical Association, 281: 2020–2028.
Kjaer M (1995) Hepatic fuel metabolism during exercise. In Hargreaves M, ed. Exercise 
Metabolism . Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, pp. 73–97.
Kjaer M, Kiens B, Hargreaves M, Richter EA (1991) Influence of active muscle mass on 
glucose homeostasis during exercise in humans, Journal of Applied Physiology , 71: 
552–557.
Klein EA1, Thompson IM Jr, Tangen CM, Crowley JJ, Lucia MS, Goodman PJ, Minasian 
LM, Ford LG, Parnes HL, Gaziano JM, Karp DD, Lieber MM, Walther PJ, Klotz L, 
Parsons JK, Chin JL, Darke AK, Lippman SM, Goodman GE, Meyskens FL Jr, Baker LH 
(2011) Vitamin E and the risk of prostate cancer: the Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer 
Prevention Trial (SELECT). Journal of the American Medical Association, 306: 1549–1556.
Klein S (2004) Clinical trial experience with fat- restricted vs. carbohydrate- restricted 
weight- loss diets. Obesity Research, 12: 141S–144S.
Kline K, Yu W, Sanders BG (2004) Vitamin E and breast cancer. Journal of Nutrition, 134: 
3458S–3462S.
Knuttgen HG, Emerson K Jr (1974) Physiological responses to pregnancy at rest and 
during exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology, 36: 549–553.
Kokkinos PF, Hurley BF (1990) Strength training and lipoprotein- lipid profiles. A crit -
ical analysis and recommendations for further study. Sports Medicine, 9: 266–272.
Koranyi LI, Bourey RE, Slentz CA, Holloszy JO (1991) Coordinate reduction of rat pan -
creatic islet glucokinase and proinsulin mRNA by exercise training. Diabetes, 40: 
401–404.
Kraemer WJ, Volek JS, Clark KL, Gordon SE, Puhl SM, Koziris LP, McBride JM, Triplett- 
McBride NT, Putukian M, Newton RU, Häkkinen K, Bush JA, Sebastianelli WJ (1999) 
Influence of exercise training on physiological and performance changes with weight 
loss in men. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 31: 1320–1329.
Krauss RM (2004) Lipids and lipoproteins in patients with type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Care, 
27: 1496–1504.
Krauss RM, Deckelbaum RJ, Ernst N, Fisher E, Howard BV, Knopp RH, Kotchen T, Lich -
tenstein AH, McGill HC, Pearson TA, Prewitt TE, Stone NJ, Horn LV, Weinberg R (1996) Dietary guidelines for healthy American adults. A statement for health profes -
sionals from the Nutrition Committee, American Heart Association. Circulation, 94: 
1795–1800.
Kreider RB, Ferreira M, Wilson M, Almada AL (1999) Effects of calcium beta- hydroxy-
beta- methylbutyrate (HMB) supplementation during resistance- training on markers 
of catabolism, body composition and strength. International Journal of Sports Medicine , 
20: 503–509.
Kreider RB, Miller GW, Williams MH, Somma CT, Nasser TA (1990) Effects of phos -
phate loading on oxygen uptake, ventilatory anaerobic threshold, and run perform -
ance. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 22: 250–256.
Kreider RB, Miller GW, Schenck D, Cortes CW, Miriel V, Somma CT, Rowland P, Turner 
C, Hill D (1992) Effects of phosphate loading on metabolic and myocardial responses to maximal and endurance exercise. International Journal of Sport Nutrition , 
2: 20–47.
Kriketos AD, Thompson HR, Greene H, Hill JO (1999) Hydroxycitric acid does not 
affect energy expenditure and substrate oxidation in adult males in a post- absorptive 
state. International Journal of Obesity Related Metabolic Disorders, 23: 867–873.
Kushi LH, Meyer KA, Jacobs DR Jr (1999) Cereals, legumes, and chronic disease risk 
reduction: evidence from epidemiologic studies. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 
70: 451S–458S.

Bibliography   475
Lamb, DR, Shehata A (1999) Benefits and limitations to prehydration. Sports Science 
Exchange , 12: 1–6.
Lambert MI, Hefer JA, Millar RP, Macfarlane PW (1993) Failure of commercial oral 
amino acid supplements to increase serum growth hormone concentrations in male 
body- builders. International Journal of Sport Nutrition, 3: 298–305.
Lancaster GI, Khan Q, Drysdale PT, Wallace F, Jeukendrup AE, Drayson MT, Gleeson M 
(2005) Effect of prolonged exercise and carbohydrate ingestion on type 1 and type 2 
T lymphocyte distribution and intracellular cytokine production in humans. Journal 
of Applied Physiology, 98: 565–571.
Lang R, Jebb SA (2003) Who consumes whole grains, and how much? Proceedings of Nutri-
tion Society, 62: 123–127.
Larsen FJ, Weitzberg E, Lundberg JO, Ekblom B (2007) Effects of dietary nitrate on 
oxygen cost during exercise. Acta Physiologica, 191: 59–66.
Latzka WA, Sawka MN, Montain SJ, Skrinar GS, Fielding RA, Matott RP, Pandolf KB 
(1997) Hyperhydration: thermoregulatory effects during compensable exercise- heat 
stress. Journal of Applied Physiology, 83: 860–866.
Latzka WA, Sawka MN, Montain SJ, Skrinar GS, Fielding RA, Matott RP, Pandolf KB 
(1998) Hyperhydration: tolerance and cardiovascular effects during uncompensable 
exercise- heat stress. Journal of Applied Physiology, 84: 1858–1864.
Leaf A (2007) Prevention of sudden cardiac death by n- 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids. 
Journal of Cardiovascular Medicine (Hagerstown), 8(Suppl 1): S27–S29.
LeBlanc J, Diamond P, Cote J, Labrie A (1984) Hormonal factors in reduced postprandial 
heat production of exercise- trained subjects. Journal of Applied Physiology, 56: 772–776.
Leder BZ, Longcope C, Catlin DH, Ahrens B, Schoenfeld DA, Finkelstein JS (2000) Oral 
androstenedione administration and serum testosterone concentrations in young men. Journal of the American Medical Association, 283: 779–782.
Lee JS, Bruce CR, Tunstall RJ, Cameron- Smith D, Hugel H, Hawley JA (2002) Inter -
action of exercise and diet on GLUT- 4 protein and gene expression in type I and 
type II rat skeletal muscle. Acta Physiologica Scandinavica, 175: 37–44.
Lee MF, Krasinski SD (1998) Human adult- onset lactase decline: an update. Nutrition 
Review , 56: 1–8.
Lee- Han H, McGuire V, Boyd NF (1989) A review of the methods used by studies of 
dietary measurement. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, 42: 269–279.
Leibel RL, Rosenbaum M, Hirsch J (1995) Changes in energy expenditure resulting 
from altered body weight. New England Journal of Medicine, 332: 621–628.
Leitch I (1942) The evolution of dietary standards. Nutrition Abstract Review, 11: 509–521.Lemon P, Mullin J (1980) Effect of initial muscle glycogen levels on protein catabolism 
during exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology, 48: 624–629.
Lemon PWR, Tarnopolsky MA, MacDougall JD, Atkinson SA (1992) Protein require -
ments and muscle mass/strength changes during intensive training in novice body -
builders, Journal of Applied Physiology, 73: 767–775.
Lichtenstein AH, Ausman LM, Jalbert SM, Schaefer EJ (1999) Effects of different forms 
of dietary hydrogenated fats on serum lipoprotein cholesterol levels. New England 
Journal of Medicine, 340: 1933–1940.
Lieberman HR, Wurtman RJ, Emde GG, Coviella IL (1987) The effects of caffeine and 
aspirin on mood and performance. Journal of Clinical Psychopharmacology, 7: 315–320.
Liu S, Manson JE, Stampfer MJ, Hu FB, Giovannucci E, Colditz GA, Hennekens CH, 
Willett WC (2000) A prospective study of whole- grain intake and risk of type 2 
diabetes mellitus in US women. American Journal of Public Health, 90: 1409–1415.
Lockner DW, Heyward VH, Baumgartner RN, Jenkins KA (2000) Comparison of air- 
displacement plethysmography, hydrodensitometry, and dual X- ray absorptiometry 

476  Bibliography
for assessing body composition of children 10 to 18 years of age. Annals of the New 
York Academy of Science, 904: 72–78.
Lohman TG (1988) Anthropometry and body composition. In Lohman TG, Roche AF, 
Martorell R, eds. Anthropometric Standardization Reference Manual. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics. 
Lohman TG, Going SB (1993) Multicomponent models in body composition research: 
opportunities and pitfalls. Basic Life Sciences, 60: 53–S8.
Lohman TG, Houlkooper L, Going SB (1997) Body fat measurement goes high tech: 
not all are created equal. The ACSM’s Health and Fitness Journal , 1: 32.
Lönnqvist F, Nyberg B, Wahrenberg H, Arner P (1990) Catecholamine- induced lipolysis 
in adipose tissue of the elderly. Journal of Clinical Investigations, 85: 1614–1621.
Lovejoy JC, Bray GA, Lefevre M, Smith SR, Most MM, Denkins YM, Volaufova J, Rood JC, 
Eldridge AL, Peters JC (2003) Consumption of a controlled low- fat diet containing 
olestra for 9 months improves health risk factors in conjunction with weight loss in 
obese men: the Ole’ Study. International Journal of Obesity Related Metabolic Disorders , 
27: 1242–1249.
Lowell BB, Spiegelman BM (2000) Towards a molecular understanding of adaptive ther -
mogenesis. Nature, 404: 652–660.
Lukaski HC (1999) Chromium as a supplement. Annual Review of Nutrition, 19: 279–302.Lukaski HC, Bolonchuk WW, Siders WA, Milne DB (1996) Chromium supplementation 
and resistance training: effects on body composition, strength, and trace element status of men. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 63: 954–965.
Luke A, Maki KC, Barkey N, Cooper R, McGee D (1997) Simultaneous monitoring heart 
rate and motion to assess energy expenditure. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 29: 144–148.
Lundberg A, Eriksson BO, Mellgren G (1979) Metabolic substrates, muscle fibre com -
position and fibre size in late walking and normal children. European Journal of Pediat -
rics, 130: 79–92.
Lusk G (1924) Animal calorimetry- analysis of the oxidation of mixtures of carbohydrate 
and fat: a correction. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 59: 41–42.
Lutz PL (2002) The Rise of Experimental Biology: An Illustrated History . Totowa, NJ: Humana 
Press.
Lyons TP, Riedesel ML, Meuli LE, Chick TW (1990) Effects of glycerol- induced hyperhy -
dration prior to exercise in the heat on sweating and core temperature. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 22: 477–483.
Ma Y, Olendzki B, Chiriboga D, Hebert JR, Li Y, Li W, Campbell M, Gendreau K, Ockene 
IS (2005) Association between dietary carbohydrates and body weight. American 
Journal of Epidemiology, 161: 359–367.
Macdiarmid JI, Blundell JE (1997) Dietary under- reporting: what people say about 
recording their food intake. European Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 51: 199–200.
Macek M, Vavra J, Novosadova J (1976) Prolonged exercise in pre- pubertal boys II. 
Changes in plasma volume and in some blood constituents, European Journal of 
Applied Physiology, 35: 299–303.
Maehlum S, Hostmark AT, Hermansen L (1977) Synthesis of muscle glycogen during 
recovery after prolonged, severe exercise in diabetic and nondiabetic subjects. Scan-
dinavian Journal of Clinical Laboratory Investigations, 37: 309–316.
MacLean DA, Graham TE, Saltin B (1994) Branched- chain amino acids augment 
ammonia metabolism while attenuating protein breakdown during exercise . American 
Journal of Physiology, 267: E1010–E1022.
Madsen KL (2001) The use of probiotics in gastrointestinal disease. Canadian Journal of 
Gastroenterology, 15: 817–822.

Bibliography   477
Malavolti M, Pietrobelli A, Dugoni M, Poli M, Romagnoli E, DeCristofaro P, Battistini 
NC (2007) A new device for measuring resting energy expenditure (REE) in healthy 
subjects. Nutrition and Metabolic Cardiovascular Diseases, 17: 338–343.
Mannix ET, Stager JM, Harris A, Farber MO (1990) Oxygen delivery and cardiac output 
during exercise following oral phosphate- glucose. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 22: 341–347.
Manson JE, Stampfer MJ, Hennekens CH, Willett WC (1987) Body weight and longevity. 
A reassessment. Journal of the American Medical Association, 16(257): 353–358.
Margaret- Mary GW, Morley JE (2003) Physiology of aging invited review: aging and 
energy balance. Journal of Applied Physiology, 95: 1728–1736.
Marker JC, Hirsch IB, Smith LJ, Parvin CA, Holloszy JO, Cryer PE (1991) Catecho -
lamines in prevention of hyperglycemia during exercise in humans. American Journal 
of Physiology, 260: E705–E712.
Marschall HU, Einarsson C (2007) Gallstone disease. Journal of International Medicine , 
261: 529–542.
Martin IK, Katz A, Wahren J (1995) Splanchnic and muscle metabolism during exercise 
in NIDDM patients. American Journal of Physiology, 269: E583–E590.
Martinez LR, Haymes EM (1992) Substrate utilization during treadmill running in pre- 
pubertal girls and women. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 24: 975–983.
Mathews, Van Holde, Ahern (2000) Biochemistry, 3rd edn. Upper Saddle River, NJ: 
Pearson Education.
Maughan RJ (1991) Fluid and electrolyte loss and replacement in exercise. Journal of 
Sports Science, 9: 117–142.
Maxwell NS, Gardner F, Nimmo MA (1999) Intermittent running: muscle metabolism in 
the heat and effect of hypohydration. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 31: 
675–683.
McArdle WD, Katch FI, Katch VL (2005) Sports and Exercise Nutrition , 2nd edn. Baltimore, 
MD: Lippincott Williams and Wilkins.
McArdle WD, Katch FL, Katch VL (2009) Sports and Exercise Nutrition,  3rd edn. Baltimore, 
MD: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins.
McCarron DA, Morris CD, Henry HJ, Stanton JL (1984) Blood pressure and nutrient 
intake in the United States. Science, 224: 1392–1398.
McCartney N, Spriet LL, Heigenhauser GIF, Kowalchuk JM, Sutton JR, Jones NL (1986) 
Muscle power and metabolism in maximal intermittent exercise. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 60: 1164–1169.
McConell G, Kloot K, Hargreaves M (1996) Effect of timing of carbohydrate ingestion 
on endurance exercise performance. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 28: 
1300–1304.
McCormack J, Denton R (1994) Signal transduction by intra- mitochondrial calcium in 
mammalian energy metabolism. News in Physiological Sciences, 9: 71–76.
McCrory MA, Gomez TD, Bernauer EM, Molé PA (1995) Evaluation of a new air dis -
placement plethysmograph for measuring human body composition. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 27: 1686–1691.
McKenzie S, Phillips SM, Carter SL, Lowther S, Gibala MJ, Tarnopolsky MA (2000) 
Endurance exercise training attenuates leucine oxidation and BCOAD activation during exercise in humans. American Journal of Physiology, 278: E580–E587.
McManus TJ (2000) Helicobacter pylori: an emerging infectious disease. The Nurse Prac -
titioner, 25: 40–48.
McNamara JP, Valdez F (2005) Adipose tissue metabolism and production responses 
to calcium propionate and chromium propionate . Journal of Dairy Sciences , 88: 
2498–2507.

478  Bibliography
McNaughton L, Dalton B, Palmer G (1999) Sodium bicarbonate can be used as an ergo -
genic aid in high- intensity, competitive cycle ergometry of 1 h duration. European 
Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational Physiology, 80: 64–69.
Melanson EL, Sharp TA, Seagle HM, Donahoo WT, Grunwald GK, Peters JC, Hamilton 
JT, Hill JO (2002) Resistance and aerobic exercise have similar effects on 24-h 
nutrient oxidation. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 34: 1793–1800.
Melby C, Scholl C, Edwards G, Bullough R (1993) Effect of acute resistance exercise on 
postexercise energy expenditure and resting metabolic rate. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 75: 1847–1853.
Merrill AL, Watt BK (1973) Energy Value of Foods – Basis and Derivation . Agriculture Hand -
book No. 74. Washington, DC: US Department of Agriculture, www.nal.usda.gov/fnic/foodcomp/Data/Classics/ah74.pdf.
Meyer KA, Kushi LH, Jacobs DR Jr, Slavin J, Sellers TA, Folsom AR (2000) Carbohy -
drates, dietary fiber, and incident type 2 diabetes in older women. American Journal of 
Clinical Nutrition, 71: 921–930.
Mifflin MD, St Jeor ST, Hill LA, Scott BJ, Daugherty SA, Koh YO (1990) A new predictive 
equation for resting energy expenditure in healthy individuals. American Journal of 
Clinical Nutrition, 51: 241–247.
Mikines KJ, Sonne B, Farrell PA, Tronier B, Galbo H (1988) Effect of physical exercise 
on sensitivity and responsiveness to insulin in humans. American Journal of Physiology, 
254: E248–E259.
Mikines KJ, Sonne B, Farrell PA, Tronier B, Galbo H (1989a) Effect of training on the 
dose–response relationship for insulin action in men. Journal of Applied Physiology , 
66: 695–703.
Mikines KJ, Sonne B, Farrell PA, Tronier B, Galbo H (1989b) Effects of training and 
detraining on dose–response relationship between glucose and insulin secretion. American Journal of Physiology, 256: E588–E596.
Miller WC, Koceja DM, Hamilton EJ (1997) A meta- analysis of the past 25 years of weight 
loss research using diet, exercise or diet plus exercise intervention. International 
Journal of Obesity Related Metabolic Disorders, 21: 941–947.
Miyazaki H, Oh- ishi S, Ookawara T, Kizaki T, Toshinai K, Ha S, Haga L, Ji L, Ohno H 
(2001) Strenuous endurace training in humans reduces oxidative stress following exhaustive exercise. European Journal of Applied Physiology
, 84: 1–6.
Modlesky CM, Cureton KJ, Lewis RD, Prior BM, Sloniger MA, Rowe DA (1996) Density 
of the fat- free mass and estimates of body composition in male weight trainers. 
Journal of Applied Physiology, 80: 2085–2096.
Mohamed- Ali V, Pinkney JH, Coppack SW (1998) Adipose tissue as an endocrine and 
paracrine organ. International Journal of Obesity, 22: 1145–1158.
Montague CT, Prins JB, Sanders L, Zhang J, Sewter CP, Digby J, Byrne CD, O’Rahilly S 
(1998) Depot- related gene expression in human subcutaneous and omental adi -
pocytes. Diabetes, 47: 1384–1391.
Montain SJ, Sawka MN, Latzka WA, Valeri CR (1998) Thermal and cardiovascular strain 
from hypohydration: influence of exercise intensity. International Journal of Sports 
Medicine, 19: 87–91.
Moore DR, Robinson MJ, Fry JL, Tang JE, Glover EI, Wilkinson SB, Prior T, Tarnopolsky 
MA, Phillips SM (2009) Ingested protein dose response of muscle and albumin 
protein synthesis after resistance exercise in young men. American Journal of Clinical 
Nutrition, 89: 161–168.
Mozaffarian D, Aro A, Willett WC (2009) Health effects of trans- fatty acids: experimental 
and observational evidence. European Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 63: S5–S21.

Bibliography   479
Mudambo KS, Scrimgeour CM, Rennie MJ (1997) Adequacy of food ratings in soldiers 
during exercise in hot, day- time, conditions assessed by doubly labeled water and 
energy balance methods. European Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational Physi -
ology, 76: 346–351.
Müller-Lissner SA, Kamm MA, Scarpignato C, Wald A (2005) Myths and misconceptions 
about chronic constipation. American Journal of Gastroenterology, 100: 232–242.
Must A, Spadano J, Coakley EH, Field AE, Colditz G, Dietz WH (1999) The disease 
burden associated with overweight and obesity. Journal of the American Medical Associ-
ation, 282: 1523–1529.
Nadel E (1979) Temperature regulation. In Strauss R, ed. Sports Medicine and Physiology . 
Philadelphia, PA: W.B. Saunders.
Nagy TR, Goran MI, Weinsier RL, Toth MJ, Schutz Y, Poehlman ET (1996) Determina -
tions of basal fat oxidation in healthy Caucasians. Journal of Applied Physiology , 80: 
1743–1748.
Nair KS, Schwartz RG, Welle S (1992) Leucine as a regulator of whole body and skeletal 
muscle protein metabolism in humans . American Journal of Physiology, Endocrinology 
and Metabolism, 263, E928–E934.
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (1998) Clinical guidelines on the identifica -
tion, evaluation, and treatment of overweight and obesity in adults: the evidence 
report. Obesity Research, 6: S51–S210.
National Institutes of Health Obesity Education Initiative (2000) Practical Guide: Identifi -
cation, Evaluation, and Treatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults . Washington, DC: 
US Department of Health and Human Services, pp. 26–27.
National Task Force on the Prevention and Treatment of Obesity (2000) Overweight, 
obesity, and health risk. Archives of International Medicine, 160: 898–904.
Neubauer O, Konig D, Kern N, Nics L, Wagner KH (2008) No indications of persistent 
oxidative stress in response to an ironman triathlon. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 40: 2119–2128.
Nielsen FH, Hunt CD, Mullen LM, Hunt JR (1987) Effect of dietary boron on mineral, 
estrogen, and testosterone metabolism in postmenopausal women. The FASEB 
Journal, 1: 394–397.
Nissen S, Sharp R, Ray M, Rathmacher JA, Rice D, Fuller JC Jr, Connelly AS, Abumrad N 
(1996) Effect of leucine metabolite beta- hydroxy-beta- methylbutyrate on muscle metab -
olism during resistance- exercise training. Journal of Applied Physiology, 81: 2095–2104.
Noori N, Dukkipati R, Kovesdy CP, Sim JJ, Feroze U, Murali SB, Bross R, Benner D, 
Kopple JD, Kalantar- Zadeh K (2011) Dietary omega- 3 fatty acid, ratio of omega- 6 to 
omega- 3 intake, inflammation, and survival in long- term hemodialysis patients. 
American Journal of Kidney Disease, 58: 248–256.
Norman RA, Thompson DB, Foroud T, Garvey WT, Bennett PH, Bogardus C, Ravussin E 
(1997) Genomewide search for genes influencing percent body fat in Pima Indians: suggestive linkage at chromosome 11q21–q22. Pima Diabetes Gene Group. American 
Journal of Human Genetics, 60: 166–173.
Nose H, Mack GW, Shi XR, Nadel ER (1988) Role of osmolality and plasma volume 
during rehydration in humans. Journal of Applied Physiology, 65: 325–331.
O’Keefe JH, Bybee KA, Lavie CJ (2007) Alcohol and cardiovascular health: the razor- 
sharp double- edged sword. Journal of the American College of Cardiology, 50: 1009–1014.
Olds TS, Abernethy PJ (1993) Post- exercise oxygen consumption following heavy and 
light resistance exercise. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 7: 147–152.
Onakpoya I, Hung SK, Perry R, Wider B, Ernst E (2011) The use of garcinia extract 
(hydroxycitric acid) as a weight loss supplement: a systematic review and meta- 
analysis of randomised clinical trials. Journal of Obesity, ID: 509038.

480  Bibliography
Oppliger RA, Case HS, Horswill CA, Landry GL, Shelter AC (1996) American College of 
Sports Medicine position stand. Weight loss in wrestlers. Medicine and Science in Sports 
and Exercise, 28: ix–xii.
Ortiz O, Russell M, Daley TL, Baumgartner RN, Waki M, Lichtman S, Wang J, Pierson 
RN Jr, Heymsfield SB (1992) Differences in skeletal muscle and bone mineral mass 
between black and white females and their relevance to estimates of body composi -
tion. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 55: 8–13.
Osteoporosis Prevention, Diagnosis, and Therapy (2000) NIH Consensus Statement 
Online, March 27–29; 17(1): 1–36.
Otis CL, Drinkwater B, Johnson M, Loucks A, Wilmore J (1997) American College of 
Sports Medicine position stand. The Female Athlete Triad. Medicine and Science in 
Sports and Exercise , 29: i–ix.
Paddon- Jones D, Keech A, Jenkins D (2001) Short- term beta- hydroxy-beta- methylbutyrate 
supplementation does not reduce symptoms of eccentric muscle damage. Inter-
national Journal of Sport Nutrition and Exercise Metabolism, 11: 442–450.
Page TG, Southern LL, Ward TL, Thompson DL Jr (1993) Effect of chromium picoli -
nate on growth and serum and carcass traits of growing- finishing pigs. Journal of 
Animal Science, 71: 656–662.
Pandolf KB, Cadarette BS, Sawka MN, Young AJ, Francesconi RP, Gonzalez RR (1988) 
Thermoregulatory responses of middle- aged and young men during dry- heat accli -
mation. Journal of Applied Physiology , 65: 65–71. 
Papa S (1996) Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation changes in the life span: molecular 
aspects and pathophysiological implications. Biochimica et Biophysica Acta, 1276: 87–105.
Parr EB, Camera DM, Areta JL, Burke LM, Phillips SM, Hawley JA, Coffey VG (2014) 
Alcohol ingestion impairs maximal post- exercise rates of myofibrillar protein synthe -
sis following a single bout of concurrent training. PLoS One. 9:e88384.
Pasquali R, Cesari MP, Besteghi L, Melchionda N, Balestra V (1987a) Thermogenic 
agents in the treatment of human obesity: preliminary results, International Journal of 
Obesity, 11: 23–26.
Pasquali R, Cesari MP, Melchionda N, Stefanini C, Raitano A, Labo G (1987b) Does 
ephedrine promote weight loss in low- energy-adapted obese women? International 
Journal of Obesity, 11: 163–168.
Pate RR, Barnes C, Miller W (1985) A physiological comparison of performance- 
matched female and male distance runners. Research Quarterly for Sports and Exercise , 
16: 606–613.
Paul GL (1989) Dietary protein requirements of physically active individuals. Sports Medi-
cine, 8: 154–176.
Pencek RR, James FD, Lacy DB, Jabbour K, Williams PE, Fueger PT, Wasserman DH 
(2003) Interaction of insulin and prior exercise in control of hepatic metabolism of a glucose load. Diabetes, 52: 1897–1903.
Penetar D, McCann U, Thorne D, Kamimori G, Galinski C, Sing H, Thomas M, Belenky 
G (1993) Caffeine reversal of sleep deprivation effects on alertness and mood. Psychopharmacology, 112: 359–365.
Percheron G, Hogrel JY, Denot- Ledunois S, Fayet G, Forette F, Baulieu EE, Fardeau M, 
Marini JF (2003) Effect of 1-year oral administration of dehydroepiandrosterone to 
60- to 80-year- old individuals on muscle function and cross- sectional area: a double- 
blind placebo- controlled trial. Archives of International Medicine, 163: 720–727.
Phillips WT, Ziuraitis JR (2003) Energy cost of the ACSM single- set resistance training 
protocol. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 17: 350–355.
Pichan G, Gauttam RK, Tomar OS, Bajaj AC (1988) Effect of primary hypohydration on 
physical work capacity. International Journal of Biometeorology, 32: 176–180.

Bibliography   481
Pittler MH, Stevinson C, Ernst E (2003) Chromium picolinate for reducing body weight: 
meta- analysis of randomized trials. International Journal of Obesity Related Metabolic 
Disorders, 27: 522–529.
Poehlman ET, Melby C (1998) Resistance training and energy balance. International 
Journal of Sports Nutrition, 8: 143–159.
Poehlman EC, Melby CL, Badylak SF (1988) Resting metabolic rate and postprandial 
thermogenesis in highly trained and untrained males. American Journal of Clinical 
Nutrition, 47: 793–798.
Pollock ML, Gettman LR, Jackson A, Ayres J, Ward A, Linnerud AC (1977) Body com -
position of elite class distance runners. Annals of the New York Academy of Science , 301: 
361–370.
Poole DC, Richardson RS (1997) Determinants of oxygen uptake. Sports Medicine, 24: 
308–320.
Position of the American Dietetic Association, Dietitians of Canada, and the American 
College of Sports Medicine (2000) Nutrition and athletic performance. Journal of the 
American Dietetic Association, 100: 1543–1556.
Potteiger JA, Nickel GL, Webster MJ, Haub MD, Palmer RJ (1996) Sodium citrate inges -
tion enhances 30 km cycling performance. International Journal of Sports Medicine , 
17: 7–11.
Powers SK, Howley ET (2001) Exercise Physiology – Theory and Application to Fitness and 
Performance . New York: McGraw Hill.
Powers SK, Howley ET (2018) Exercise Physiology – Theory and Application to Fitness and 
Performance , 10th edn. New York: McGraw Hill.
Prasad AS1, Beck FW, Snell DC, Kucuk O (2009) Zinc in cancer prevention. Nutrition 
and Cancer, 61: 879–887.
Pruett EDR (1970) Glucose and insulin during prolonged work stress in men living on 
different diets. Journal of Applied Physiology, 28: 199–208.
Pullinen T, Mero A, MacDonald E, Pakarinen A, Komi PV (1998) Plasma catecholamine 
and serum testosterone responses to four units of resistance exercise in young and 
adult male athletes. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 77: 413–420.
Radecki TE (2005) Calcium and vitamin D in preventing fractures: vitamin K supple -
mentation has powerful effect. British Medical Journal , 331: 108.
Raguso CA, Coggan AR, Sidossis LS, Gastaldelli A, Wolfe RR (1996) Effect of theophyl -
line on substrate metabolism during exercise. Metabolism, 45: 1153–1160.
Rakowski W, Mor V (1992) The association of physical activity with mortality among 
older adults in the longitudinal study of aging (1984–1988). Journal of Gerontology, 47: 
M122–M129.
Randle PJ, Garland PB, Hales CN, Newsholme EA (1963) The glucose–fatty acid cycle. 
Its role in insulin sensitivity and metabolic disturbances of diabetes mellitus. Lancet, 
1: 785–789.
Ransone J, Neighbors K, Lefavi R, Chromiak J (2003) The effect of beta- hydroxy beta- 
methylbutyrate on muscular strength and body composition in collegiate football players. Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 17: 34–39.
Ratamess NA, Bush JA, Kang J, Kraemer WJ, Stohs SJ, Nocera VG, Leise MD, Diamond 
KB, Faigenbaum AD (2016) The effects of supplementation with P- Synephrine alone 
and in combination with caffeine on resistance exercise performance. Journal of the 
International Society of Sports Nutrition , 17(12): 35.
Ravussin E, Rising R (1992) Daily energy expenditure in humans: measurement in a res-
piratory chamber and by doubly labeled water. In Kinney JN, Tucker HN, eds. Energy 
Metabolism: Tissue Determinants and Cellular Corollaries . New York: Raven Press, 
pp. 81–96.

482  Bibliography
Reaven G, Miller R (1968) Study of the relationship between glucose and insulin 
responses to an oral glucose load in man. Diabetes, 17: 560–569.
Rebro SM, Patterson RE, Kristal AR, Cheney CL (1998) The effect of keeping food 
records on eating patterns. Journal of the American Dietetic Association, 98: 1163–1165.
Ren JM, Semenkovich CF, Gulve EA, Gao J, Holloszy JO (1994) Exercise induces rapid 
increases in GLUT4 expression, glucose transport capacity, and insulin- stimulated 
glycogen storage in muscle. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 269: 14396–14401.
Rennie K, Rowsell T, Jebb SA, Holburn D, Wareham NJ (2000) A combined heart rate 
and movement sensor: proof of concept and preliminary testing study. European 
Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 54: 409–414.
Richelsen B, Pedersen SB, Moller- Pedersen T, Bak JF (1991) Regional differences in trig -
lyceride breakdown in human adipose tissue: effects of catecholamines, insulin, and 
prostaglandin E2. Metabolism, 40: 990–996.
Richter EA (1996) Glucose utilization. In Rowell LB, Shepherd JT, eds. Handbook of 
Physiology . New York: Oxford University Press, pp. 912–951.
Richter EA, Galbo H, Christensen NJ (1981) Control of exercise- induced muscular 
glycogeneolysis by adrenal medullary hormones in rats. Journal of Applied Physiology , 
50: 21–26.
Richter EA, Garetto LP, Goodman M, Ruderman NB (1982) Muscle glucose metabolism 
following exercise in the rats. Increased sensitivity to insulin. Journal of Clinical Investi -
gations, 69: 785–793.
Richter EA, Garetto LP, Goodman M, Ruderman NB (1984) Enhanced glucose metabo -
lism after exercise: modulation by local factors. American Journal of Physiology , 246: 
E476–E482.
Richter EA, Mikines KJ, Galbo H, Kiens B (1989) Effect of exercise on insulin action in 
human skeletal muscle. Journal of Applied Physiology, 66: 876–885.
Richter EA, Ploug T, Galbo H (1985) Increased muscle glucose uptake after exercise. 
No need for insulin during exercise. Diabetes, 34: 1041–1048.
Riddell MC, Bar- Or O, Wilk B, Parolin ML, Heigenhauser GJF (2001) Substrate utiliza -
tion during exercise with glucose and glucose plus fructose ingestion in boys of age 10–14 yr. Journal of Applied Physiology, 90: 903–911.
Riddell MC, Perkins BA (2006) Type 1 diabetes and exercise Part I: applications of exer-
cise physiology to patient management during vigorous activity. Canadian Journal of 
Diabetes, 30: 63–71.
Rimm EB, Williams P, Fosher K, Criqui M, Stampfer MJ (1999) Moderate alcohol intake 
and lower risk of coronary heart disease: meta- analysis of effects on lipids and haemo -
static factors. British Medical Journal, 319: 1523–1528.
Ristow M, Zarse K, Oberbach A, Kloting N, Birringer M, Kiehntopf M, Stumvoll M, Kahn 
CR, Bluher M (2009) Antioxidants prevent health- promoting effects of physical exer -
cise in humans. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 106: 8665–8670.
Roberts SB, Fuss P, Dallal GE, Atkinson A, Evans WJ, Joseph L, Fiatarone MA, Greenberg 
AS, Young VR (1996) Effect of age on energy expenditure and substrate oxidation 
during experimental overfeeding in healthy men, Journal of Gerontology, 51: B148–B157.
Robinson S (1938) Experimental studies of physical fitness in relation to age. Arbeitsphysi-
ologie, 10: 251–323.
Robitaille M, Dubé MC, Weisnagel SJ, Prud’homme D, Massicotte D, Péronnet F, Lavoie 
C (2007) Substrate source utilization during moderate intensity exercise with glucose ingestion in type 1 diabetic patients. Journal of Applied Physiology, 103: 119–124.
Rolfe DF, Brand MD (1996). Contribution of mitochondrial proton leak to skeletal 
muscle respiration and to standard metabolic rate. American Journal of Physiology , 271: 
C1380–C1389.

Bibliography   483
Romijn JA, Coyle EF, Sidossis LS, Gastaldelli A, Horowitz JF, Endert E, Wolfe RR (1993) 
Regulation of endogenous fat and carbohydrate metabolism in relation to exercise 
intensity and duration. American Journal of Physiology, 265: E380–E391.
Rooyackers OE, Nair KS (1997) Hormonal regulation of human muscle protein metabo -
lism. Annual Review of Nutrition, 17: 457–485.
Rosenzweig PH, Volpe SL (1999) Iron, thermoregulation, and metabolic rate. Critical 
Reviews in Food Science and Nutrition, 39: 131–148.
Ross R, Dagnone D, Jones PJ, Smith H, Paddags A, Hudson R, Janssen I (2000) Reduc -
tion in obesity and related comorbid conditions after diet- induced weight loss or 
exercise- induced weight loss in men: a randomized, controlled trial. Annuals of Inter -
national Medicine, 133: 92–103.
Rothwell NJ, Stock MJ (1983) Diet- induced thermogenesis. Advances in Food and Nutrition 
Research, 5: 201–220.
Roubenoff R, Kehayias JJ, Dawson- Hughes B, Heymsfield SB (1993) Use of dual- energy 
x- ray absorptiometry in body composition studies: not yet a “good standard.” 
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 58: 589–591.
Rowland TW, Rimany TA (1995) Physiological responses to prolonged exercise in pre- 
menarcheal and adult females. Pediatric Exercise Science, 7: 183–191.
Rowland TW, Auchinachie JA, Keenan TJ, Green GM (1987) Physiological responses to 
treadmill running in adult and pre- pubertal males. International Journal of Sports  Medi-
cine, 8: 292–297.
Roza AM, Shizgal HM (1984) The Harris Benedict equation reevaluated: resting energy 
requirements and the body cell mass. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 40: 
168–182.
Ruby BC, Robergs RA, Waters DL, Burge M, Mermier C, Stolarczyk L (1997) Effects of 
estradiol on substrate turnover during exercise in amenorrheic females. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 29: 1160–1169.
Sady S (1981) Transient oxygen uptake and heart rate responses at the onset of relative 
endurance exercise in pre- pubertal boys and adult men. International Journal of Sports 
Medicine, 2: 240–244.
Sahlin K, Tonkonogi M, Söderlund K (1998) Energy supply and muscle fatigue in 
humans, Acta Physiologica Scandinavica, 162: 261–266.
Sallis JF, Buono MJ, Freedson PS (1991) Bias in estimating caloric expenditure from 
physical activity in children: implications for epidemiological studies. Sports Medicine, 
11: 203–209.
Sallis JF, Buono MJ, Roby JJ, Carlson D, Nelson JA (1990) The Caltrac accelerometer as 
a physical activity monitor for school- age children. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 22: 698–703.
Sallis JF, Saelens BE (2000) Assessment of physical activity by self- report: status, limita -
tions, and future directions. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport , 71: 1–14.
Saltin B, Houston M, Nygaard E, Graham T, Wahren J (1979) Muscle fiber characteris -
tics in healthy men and patients with juvenile diabetes. Diabetes, 28(Suppl 1): 93–99.
Saris WHM (1993) The role of exercise in the dietary treatment of obesity. International 
Journal of Obesity, 17: S17–S21.
Sasaki N, Kusano E, Takahashi H, Ando Y, Yano K, Tsuda E, Asano Y (2005) Vitamin K2 
inhibits glucocorticoid- induced bone loss partly by preventing the reduction of oste -
oprotegerin (OPG). Journal of Bone and Mineral Metabolism, 23: 41–47.
Sawaya AL, Tucker K, Tsay R, Willett W, Saltzman E, Dallal GE, Roberts SB (1996) Evalu -
ation of four methods for determining energy intake in young and older women: comparison with doubly labeled water measurements of total energy expenditure. 
American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 63: 491–499.

484  Bibliography
Sawka MN, Burke LM, Eichner ER, Maughan RJ, Montain SJ, Stachenfeld NS and 
American College of Sports Medicine (2007) American College of Sports Medicine 
position stand on exercise and fluid replacement. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 39: 377–390.
Sawka MN, Montain SJ, Latzka WA (2001) Hydration effects on thermoregulation and 
performance in the heat. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology Part A: Molecular and 
Integrative Physiology, 128: 679–690.
Sawka MN, Pandolf KB (1990) Effect of body water loss on physiological function and 
exercise performance. Fluid homeostasis during exercise. In Gisolfi CV, Lamb DR, eds. Perspectives in Exercise Science and Sports Medicine , Vol 3. Carmel, IN: Benchmark 
Press, pp. 1–38.
Sawka MN, Young AJ, Francesconi RP, Muza SR, Pandolf KB (1985) Thermoregulatory 
and blood responses during exercise at graded hypohydration levels. Journal of 
Applied Physiology , 59: 1394–1401. 
Sawka MN, Young AJ, Latzka WA, Neufer PD, Quigley MD, Pandolf KB (1992) Human 
tolerance to heat strain during exercise: influence of hydration. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 73: 368–375.
Schoeller DA, van Santen E (1982) Measurement of energy expenditure in human by 
doubly labeled water method. Journal of Applied Physiology, 53: 955–959.
Schoffstall JE, Branch JD, Leutholtz BC, Swain DE (2001) Effects of dehydration and 
rehydration on the one- repetition maximum bench press of weight- trained males. 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, 15: 102–108.
Schuenke MD, Mikat RP, McBride JM (2002) Effect of an acute period of resistance 
exercise on excess post- exercise oxygen consumption: implication for body mass 
management. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 86: 411–417.
Schutte JE, Townsend EJ, Hugg J, Shoup RF, Malina RM, Blomqvist CG (1984) Density 
of lean body mass is greater in blacks than in whites. Journal of Applied Physiology, 56: 
1647–1649.
Schwartz MW, Baskin DG, Kaiyala KJ, Woods SC (1999) Model for the regulation 
of energy balance and adiposity by the central nervous system. American Journal of 
Clinical Nutrition, 69: 584–596.
Seagle HM, Strain GW, Makris A, Reeves RS, American Dietetic Association (2009) Posi -
tion of the American Dietetic Association: weight management. Journal of the American 
Dietetic Association, 109: 330–346.
Seals DR, Hagberg JM, Allen WK, Hurley BF, Dalsky GP, Ehsani AA, Holloszy JO (1984) 
Glucose tolerance in young and older athletes and sedentary men, Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 56: 1521–1525.
Segal KR, Gutin B (1983a) Thermic effects of food and exercise in lean and obese 
women. Metabolism, 32: 531–589.
Segal KR, Gutin B (1983b), Exercise efficiency in lean and obese women. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 15: 106–107.
Segal RS, Presta E, Gutin B (1984) Thermic effect of food during graded exercise in 
normal weight and obese men. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 40: 995–1000.
Seidell JC, Muller DC, Sorkin JD, Andres R (1992) Fasting respiratory exchange ratio 
and resting metabolic rate as predictors of weight gain: the Baltimore Longitudinal 
Study on Aging. International Journal of Obesity Related Metabolic Disorders, 16: 667–674.
Seip RL, Weltman A (1991) Validity of skinfold and girth based regression equations for 
the prediction of body composition in obese adults. American Journal of Human 
Biology, 3: 91–95.
Shah M, Garg A (1996) High- fat and high- carbohydrate diets and energy balance. Dia-
betes Care, 19: 1142–1152.

Bibliography   485
Shephard RJ (2000) Exercise and training in women, Part II: Influence of menstrual cycle 
and pregnancy on exercise responses. Canadian Journal of Applied Physiology, 25: 35–54.
Sherman WM, Costill DL, Fink WJ, Miller JM (1981) Effect of exercise–diet manipula -
tion on muscle glycogen and its subsequent utilization during performance. Inter-
national Journal of Sports Medicine, 2: 114–118.
Sherman WM, Morris DM, Kirby TE, Petosa RA, Smith BA, Frid DJ (1998) Evaluation of 
a commercial accelerometer (Tritrac- R3D) to measure energy expenditure during 
ambulation. International Journal of Sports Medicine, 19: 43–47.
Shier D, Butler J, Lewis R (2010) Hole’s Human Anatomy and Physiology , 12th edn. New 
York: McGraw Hill.
Shier D, Jackie B, Lewis R (1999) Chemical basis of life. In Human Anatomy and 
Physiolog y. New York: WCB/McGraw Hill, pp. 36–58.
Shikany JM, White GL Jr (2000) Dietary guidelines for chronic disease prevention. 
Southern Medical Journal, 93: 1138–1151.
Shirreffs SM, Maughan RJ (2000) Rehydration and recovery of fluid balance after exer -
cise. Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews, 28: 27–32.
Shuler FD, Wingate MK, Moore GH, Giangarra C (2012) Sports health benefits of 
vitamin D. Sports Health, 4: 496–501.
Sial S, Coggan AR, Hickney RT, Klein S (1998) Training- induced alterations in fat and 
carbohydrate metabolism during exercise in elderly subjects. American Journal of 
Physiology, 274: E785–E790.
Sigal RJ, Purdon C, Fisher SJ, Halter JB, Vranic M, Marliss EB (1994) Hyperinsulinemia 
prevents prolonged hyperglycemia after intense exercise in insulin- dependent dia -
betic subjects. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, 79: 1049–1057.
Sinha- Hikim I, Roth SM, Lee MI, Bhasin S (2003) Testosterone- induced muscle hyper -
trophy is associated with an increase in satellite cell number in healthy, young men. 
American Journal of Physiology Endocrinol Metab, 285: E197–E205.
Siri WE (1961) Body composition from fluid space and density. In J. Brozek, A Hen -
schel, eds. Techniques for Measuring Body Composition. Washington, DC: National 
Academy of Sciences, pp. 220–224.
Sivan E, Chen X, Homko CJ, Reece EA, Boden G (1997) Longitudinal study of carbohy -
drate metabolism in healthy obese pregnant women. Diabetes Care, 20: 1470–1475.
Smith DJ, Norris SR (2000) Changes in glutamine and glutamate concentrations for 
tracking training tolerance. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 32: 684–689.
Smith GI, Atherton P, Villareal DT, Frimel TN, Rankin D, Rennie MJ, Mittendorfer B 
(2008) Differences in muscle protein synthesis and anabolic signaling in the post-
absorptive state and in response to food in 65-80-year-old men and women. PLoS One, 
3: e1875.
Smith GI, Atherton P, Reeds DN, Mohammed BS, Jaffery H, Rankin D, Rennie MJ, Mit -
tendorfer B (2009) No major sex differences in muscle protein synthesis rates in the 
postabsorptive state and during hyperinsulinemia- hyperaminoacidemia in middle- 
aged adults. Journal of Applied Physiology, 107: 1308–1315.
Smith GI, Yoshino J, Reeds DN, Bradley D, Burrows RE, Heisey HD, Moseley AC, Mitten -
dorfer B (2014) Testosterone and progesterone, but not estradol, stimulate muscle 
protein synthesis in postmenopausal women. Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and 
Metabolism, 99: 256–265.
Smolin L, Grovenor M (2010) Nutrition Science and Application, 2nd edn. Hoboken, NJ: 
John Wiley & Sons.
Snider IP, Bazzarre TL, Murdoch SD, Goldfarb A (1992) Effects of coenzyme athletic 
performance system as an ergogenic aid on endurance performance to exhaustion. 
International Journal of Sport Nutrition, 2: 272–286.

486  Bibliography
Sonne B, Mikines KJ, Richter EA, Christensen NJ, Galbo H (1985) Role of liver nerves 
and adrenal medulla in glucose turnover of running rats, Journal of Applied Physiology, 
59: 1640–1646.
Spierer DK, Hagins M, Rundle A, Pappas E (2011) A comparison of energy expenditure 
estimates from the Actiheart and Actical physical activity monitors during low 
intensity activities, walking, and jogging. European Journal of Applied Physiology , 111: 
659–667.
Stager JM, Cordain L, Becker TJ (1984) Relationship of body composition to swimming 
performance in female swimmers. Journal of Swimming Research, 1: 21–26.
Stamler JS, Meissner G (2001) Physiology of nitric oxide in skeletalmuscle. Physiological 
Review, 81: 209–237.
Standl E, Lotz N, Dexel T, Janka HU, Kolb JK (1980) Muscle triglycerides in diabetic 
subjects. Diabetologia, 18: 463–469.
Starling RD, Trappe TA, Short KR, Sheffield- Moore M, Jozsi AC, Fink WJ, Costill DL 
(1996) Effect of inosine supplementation on aerobic and anaerobic cycling perform -
ance. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 28: 1193–1198.
Starritt EC, Howlett RA, Heigenhauser GJ, Spriet LL (2000) Sensitivity of CPT I to 
malonyl- CoA in trained and untrained human skeletal muscle. American Journal of 
Physiology, 278: E462–E468.
Stearns DM, Wise JP Sr, Patierno SR, Wetterhahn KE (1995) Chromium(III) picolinate 
produces chromosome damage in Chinese hamster ovary cells. The FASEB Journal , 9: 
1643–1648.
Steen SN, Brownell KD (1990) Patterns of weight loss and regain in wrestlers: has the 
tradition changed? Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 22: 762–768.
Steiner M (1999) Vitamin E, a modifier of platelet function: rationale and use in cardio -
vascular and cerebrovascular disease. Nutrition Reviews, 57: 306–309.
Stensrud T, Ingjer F, Holm H, Stromme SB (1992) L- tryptophan supplementation does 
not improve endurance performance. International Journal of Sports Medicine , 13: 
481–485.
Stewart I, McNaughton L, Davies P, Tristram S (1990) Phosphate loading and the effects 
on VO2max in trained cyclists. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport, 61: 80–84.
Stohs SJ, Harry G, Preuss HG, and Shara M (2012) A review of the human clinical studies 
involving citrus aurantium (bitter orange) extract and its primary protoalkaloid 
p- synephrine. International Journal of Medical Science, 9: 527–538.
Stohs SJ, Preuss HG, Shara M (2011) A review of the receptor- binding properties of 
p- synephrine as related to its pharmacological effects . Oxidation of Medical Cell 
Longevity, 482973.
Stolarczyk LM, Heyward VH, Goodman JA, Grant DJ, Kessler KL, Kocina PS, Wilmerding 
V (1995) Predictive accuracy of bioimpedance equations in estimating fat- free mass 
of Hispanic women. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 27: 1450–1456.
Stone NJ (1997) Fish consumption, fish oil, lipids, and coronary heart disease. American 
Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 65: 1083–1086.
Strath SJ, Bassett DR Jr, Thompson DL, Swartz AM (2001a) Validity of the simultaneous 
heart rate- motion sensor technique for measuring energy expenditure. Medicine and 
Science in Sports and Exercise, 34: 888–894.
Strath SJ, Bassett DR Jr, Swartz AM, Thompson DL (2001b) Simultaneous heart rate- 
motion sensor technique to estimate energy expenditure. Medicine and Science in 
Sports Exercise, 33: 2118–2123.
Street D, Nielsen JJ, Bangsbo J, Juel C (2005) Metabolic alkalosis reduces exercise- 
induced acidosis and potassium accumulation in human skeletal muscle interstitium. Journal of Physiology, 566: 481–489.

Bibliography   487
Stroud MA, Ritz P, Coward WA, Sawyer MB, Constantin- Teodosiu D, Greenhaff PL, 
Macdonald IA (1997) Energy expenditure using isotope- labeled water (2H18O), exer-
cise performance, skeletal muscle enzyme activities and plasma biochemical para -
meters in humans during 95 days of endurance exercise with inadequate energy 
intake. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 76: 243–252.
Stryer L (1988) Biochemistry, 3rd edn. New York: W.H. Freeman.
Stumvoll M, Goldstein BJ, van Haeften TW (2005) Type 2 diabetes: principles of patho -
genesis and therapy. Lancet, 365: 1333–1346.
Suminski RR, Robertson RJ, Goss FL, Arslanian S, Kang J, DaSilva S, Utter AC, Metz KF 
(1997) Acute effect of amino acid ingestion and resistance exercise on plasma 
growth hormone concentration in young men. International Journal of Sport Nutrition , 
7: 48–60.
Svensson M, Malm C, Tonkonogi M, Ekblom B, Sjödin B, Sahlin K (1999) Effect of Q 10 
supplementation on tissue Q 10 levels and adenine nucleotide catabolism during 
high- intensity exercise. International Journal of Sport Nutrition, 9: 166–180.
Swain RA, Harsha DM, Baenziger J (1997) Do pseudoephedrine or phenylpropa -
nolamine improve maximum oxygen uptake and time to exhaustion? Clinical Journal 
of Sports Medicine, 7: 168–173.
Tang JE, Moore DR, Kujbida GW, Tarnopolsky MA, Phillips SM (2009) Ingestion of 
whey hydrolysate, casein, or soy protein isolate: effects on mixed muscle protein synthesis at rest and following resistance exercise in young men. Journal of Applied 
Physiology, 107: 987–992.
Tarnopolsky MA, Atkinson SA, Phillips SM, MacDougall JD (1995) Carbohydrate loading 
and metabolism during exercise in men and women. Journal of Applied Physiology , 78: 
1360–1368.
Tarnopolsky LJ, MacDougall JD, Atkinson SA, Tarnopolsky MA, Sutton JR (1990) 
Gender differences in substrate for endurance exercise. Journal of Applied Physiology , 
68: 302–308.
Tepperman J, Tepperman HM (1987) Metabolic and Endocrine Physiology , 5th edn. 
Chicago, IL: Year Book Medical Publishers.
Terada S, Yokozeki T, Kawanaka K, Ogawa K, Higuchi M, Ezaki O, Tabata I (2001) 
Effects of high- intensity swimming training on GLUT- 4 and glucose transport activity 
in rat skeletal muscle. Journal of Applied Physiology, 90: 2019–2024.
Thomas CM, Pierzga JM, Kenney WL (1999) Aerobic training and cutaneous vasodila -
tion in young and older men. Journal of Applied Physiology, 86: 1676–1686.
Thornton MK, Potteiger JA (2002) Effect of resistance exercise bouts of different inten -
sities but equal work on EPOC. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 34: 715–722.
Timmons BW, Bar- Or O, Riddell MC (2003) Oxidation rate of exogenous carbohydrate 
during exercise is higher in boys than in men. Journal of Applied Physiology, 94: 278–284.
Tipton KD, Wolfe RR (1998) Exercise- induced changes in protein metabolism, Acta 
Physiologica Scandinavica, 162: 377–387.
Toromanyan E, Aslanyan G, Amroyan E, Gabrielyan E, Panossian A (2007) Efficacy of 
Slim339 in reducing body weight of overweight and obese human subjects. Phyto-
therapy Research, 21: 1177–1181.
Toth MJ, Arciero PJ, Gardner AW, Calles- Escandon J, Poehlman ET (1996) Rates of free 
fatty acid appearance and fat oxidation in healthy younger and older men. Journal of 
Applied Physiology, 80: 506–511.
Townsend MS, Fulgoni VL 3rd, Stern JS, Adu- Afarwuah S, McCarron DA (2005) Low 
mineral intake is associated with high systolic blood pressure in the Third and Fourth National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys: could we all be right? American 
Journal of Hypertension, 18: 261–269.

488  Bibliography
Tran ZV, Weltman A (1988) Predicting body composition of men from girth measure -
ments. Human Biology, 60: 167–175.
Trappe SW, Costill DL, Goodpaster B, Vukovich MD, Fink WJ (1994) The effects of 
L- carnitine supplementation on performance during interval swimming. International 
Journal of Sports Medicine, 15: 181–185.
Tremblay A, Coe J, LeBlanc J (1983) Diminished dietary thermogenesis in exercise- 
trained human subjects. European Journal of Applied Physiology , 52: 1–4.
Tremblay A, Després JP, Leblanc C, Craig CL, Ferris B, Stephens T, Bouchard C (1990) 
Effect of intensities of physical activity on body fatness and fat distribution. American 
Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 51: 153–157.
Tremblay A, Fontaine E, Nadeau A (1985) Contribution of postexercise increment in 
glucose storage to variations in glucose- induced thermogenesis in endurance 
athletes. Canadian Journal of Physiology and Pharmacology, 63: 1165–1169.
Tremblay A, Simoneau JA, Bouchard C (1994) Impact of exercise intensity on body 
fatness and skeletal muscle metabolism. Metabolism, 43: 814–818.
Treuth MS, Hunter GR, Weinsier R, Kell S (1995) Energy expenditure and substrate uti -
lization in older women after strength training: 24 hour calorimeter results. Journal 
of Applied Physiology, 78: 2140–2146.
Trumbo P, Schlicker S, Yates AA, Poos M, Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of 
Medicine, The National Academies (2002) Dietary reference intakes for energy, car -
bohydrate, fiber, fat, fatty acids, cholesterol, protein and amino acids. Journal of the 
American Dietetic Association, 102: 1621–1630.
Tso P, Liu M (2004) Ingested fat and satiety. Physiology and Behavior, 81: 275–287.
Ukropcova B, McNeil M, Sereda O, de Jonge L, Xie H, Bray GA, Smith SR (2005) 
Dynamic changes in fat oxidation in human primary myocytes mirror metabolic 
characteristics of the donor. Journal of Clinical Investigations, 115: 1934–1941.
Van Etten LM, Westerterp KR, Verstappen FTJ (1995) Effect of weight- training on 
energy expenditure and substrate utilization during sleep, Medicine and Science in 
Sports and Exercise, 27: 188–193.
Van Harmelen V, Reynisdottir S, Eriksson P, Thorne A, Hoffstedt J, Lonnqvist F, Arner P 
(1998) Leptin secretion from subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue in women. Diabetes, 47: 913–917.
van Loon LJ, van Rooijen JJ, Niesen B, Verhagen H, Saris WH, Wagenmakers AJ (2000) 
Effects of acute (-)-hydroxycitrate supplementation on substrate metabolism at rest 
and during exercise in humans. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 72: 1445–1450.
van Staveren WA, de Boer JO, Burema J (1985) Validity and reproducibility of a dietary 
history method estimating the usual food intake during one month. American Journal 
of Clinical Nutrition, 42: 554–559.
Vander AJ, Sherman, JH, Luciano DS (2001) Human Physiology: The Mechanisms of Body 
Function
, 7th edn. New York: McGraw Hill.
Varnier M, Leese GP, Thompson J, Rennie MJ (1995) Stimulatory effect of glutamine on 
glycogen accumulation in human skeletal muscle. American Journal of Physiology , 269: 
E309–E315.
Vasankari TJ, Kujala UM, Vasankari TM, Vuorimaa T, Ahotupa M (1997) Increased 
serum and low- density-lipoprotein antioxidant potential after antioxidant supple -
mentation in endurance athletes. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 65: 1052–1056.
Venables MC, Achten J, Jeukendrup AE (2005) Determinants of fat oxidation during 
exercise in healthy men and women: a cross- sectional study. Journal of Applied Physiol -
ogy, 98: 160–167.
Vernillo G, Savoldelli A, Pellegrini B, Schena F (2015) Validity of the SenseWear 
Armband to assess energy expenditure in graded walking . Journal of Physical and 
Active Health, 12: 178–183.

Bibliography   489
Vescovi JD, Zimmerman SL, Miller WC, Hildebrandt L, Hammer RL, Fernhall B (2001) 
Evaluation of the BOD POD for estimating percentage body fat in a heterogeneous 
group of adult humans. European Journal of Applied Physiology, 85: 326–332.
Villareal DT, Apovian CM, Kushner RF, Klein S, American Society for Nutrition, NAASO 
(2005) The Obesity Society. Obesity in older adults: technical review and position statement of the American Society for Nutrition and NAASO, The Obesity Society. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 82: 923–934.
Villareal DT, Holloszy JO (2006) DHEA enhances effects of weight training on muscle 
mass and strength in elderly women and men. American Journal of Physiology, Endo -
crinology and Metabolism, 291: E1003–E1008.
Vincent JB (2003) The potential value and toxicity of chromium picolinate as a nutri -
tional supplement, weight loss agent and muscle development agent. Sports Medicine, 
33: 213–230.
Visser M, Launer LJ, Deurenberg P, Deeg DJH (1997) Total and sports activity in older 
men and women: relation with body fat distribution. American Journal of Epidemiology , 
145: 752–761.
Vukovich MD, Costill DL, Fink WJ (1994) Carnitine supplementation: effect on muscle 
carnitine and glycogen content during exercise. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 26: 1122–1129.
Vukovich MD, Costill DL, Hickey MS, Trappe SW, Cole KJ, Fink WJ (1993) Effect of fat 
emulsion infusion and fat feeding on muscle glycogen utilization during cycle exer -
cise. Journal of Applied Physiology, 75: 1513–1518.
Wagenmakers AJM (1999) Nutritional supplements: effects on exercise performance 
and metabolism. In DR Lamb and R. Murry, eds. Perspectives in Exercise Science and 
Sports Medicine, 
Vol. 12. Carmel, IN: Cooper Publishing Group, pp. 2007–2259.
Wagenmakers AJ, Beckers EJ, Brouns F, Kuipers H, Soeters PB, van der Vusse GJ, Saris 
WH (1991). Carbohydrate supplementation, glycogen depletion, and amino acid metabolism during exercise. American Journal of Physiology, 260: E883–E890.
Wagner DR (1999) Hyperhydrating with glycerol: implications for athletic performance. 
Journal of the American Dietetic Association, 99: 207–212.
Wagner DR, Heyward VH, Gibson AL (2000) Validation of air displacement plethysmog -
raphy for assessing body composition. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 32: 
1339–1444.
Wahren J, Felig P, Hagenfeldt L (1978) Physical exercise and fuel homeostasis in dia-
betes mellitus. Diabetologia, 14: 213–222.
Wahren J, Hagenfeldt L, Felig P (1975) Splanchnic and leg exchange of glucose, amino 
acids, and free fatty acids during exercise in diabetes mellitus. Journal of Clinical 
Investment, 55: 1303–1314.
Wahren J, Sato Y, Ostman J, Hagenfeldt L, Felig P (1984) Turnover and splanchnic 
metabolism of free fatty acids and ketones in insulin- dependent dianetics at rest and 
in response to exercise. Journal of Clinical Investigations, 73: 1367–1376.
Wahrenberg H, Bolinder J, Arner P (1991) Adrenergic regulation of lipolysis in human 
fat cells during exercise. European Journal of Clinical Investigations, 21: 534–541.
Wallace JP (1997) Obesity. In ACSM’s Exercise Management for Persons with Chronic Diseases 
and Disabilities . Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, pp. 106–111.
Wallace MB, Lim J, Cutler A, Bucci L (1999) Effects of dehydroepiandrosterone vs 
androstenedione supplementation in men. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise , 
31: 1788–1792.
Walsh J (2004) Vitamin D and breast cancer: insights from animal models. American 
Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 80: 1721S–1724S.
Wang J, Thornton JC, Kolesnik S, Pierson RN Jr (2000) Anthropometry in body com -
position. An overview. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 904: 317–326.

490  Bibliography
Wang TW, Apgar BS (1998) Exercise during pregnancy . American Family Physician , 57: 
1846–1852.
Wardlaw G, Smith A (2013) Contemporary Nutrition , 9th edn. New York: McGraw Hill.
Washburn RC, Cook TC, LaPorte RE (1989) The objective assessment of physical activity in 
an occupationally active group. Journal of Sports Medicine and Physical Fitness, 29: 279–284.
Wasserman, DH, Lickley HLA, Vranic M (1984) Interactions between glucagon and 
other counter- regulatory hormones during normoglycemic and hypoglycemic exer -
cise in dogs. Journal of Clinical Investigations, 74: 1404–1413.
Wasserman DH, Spalding JA, Lacy DB, Colburn CA, Goldstein RE, Cherrington AD 
(1989) Glucagon is a primary controller of hepatic glycogenolysis and gluconeogen -
esis during muscular work. American Journal of Physiology, 257: E108–E117.
Wasserman DH, Williams PE, Lacy DB, Green DR, Cherryington AD (1988) Importance 
of intrahepatic metabolisms to gluconeogenesis from alanine during exercise and 
recovery. American Journal of Physiology, 254: E518–E525.
Webster MJ, Scheett TP, Doyle MR, Branz M (1997) The effect of a thiamin derivative 
on exercise performance. European Journal of Applied Physiology and Occupational Physi -
ology, 75: 520–524.
Weglicki W, Quamme G, Tucker K, Haigney M, Resnick L (2005) Potassium, magne -
sium, and electrolyte imbalance and complications in disease management. Clinical 
and Experimental in Hypertension, 27: 95–112.
Weinsier RL, Nagy TR, Hunter GR, Darnell BE, Hensrud DD, Weiss HL (2000) Do adap -
tive changes in metabolic rate favor weight regain in weight- reduced individuals? An 
examination of the set- point theory. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 72: 
1088–1094.
Weinsier RL, Nelson KM, Hendsrud DD, Darnell BE, Hunter GR, Schutz Y (1995) Meta-
bolic predictors of obesity: contribution of resting energy expenditure, thermic 
effect of food, and fuel utilization to four year weight gain of post- obese and never- 
obese women. Journal of Clinical Investigations, 95: 980–985.
Welk GJ, Corbin CB (1995) The validity of the Tritrac- R3D activity monitor for assess -
ment of physical activity in children. Research Quarterly for Exercise and Sport , 66: 
202–209.
Weltman A, Levine S, Seip RL, Tran ZV (1988) Accurate assessment of body composi -
tion in obese females. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 48: 1179–1183.
Weltman A, Seip RL, Tran ZV (1987) Practical assessment of body composition in adult 
obese males. Human Biology, 59: 523–555.
Whitney E, Rolfes S (2005) Understanding Nutrition, 10th edn. Belmont, CA: Thomson 
Wadsworth.
Wilber RL, Pitsiladis YP (2012) Kenyan and Ethiopian distance runners: what makes 
them so good? International Journal of Sports Physiological Performance, 7: 92–102.
Willett WC, Stampfer M, Manson J, VanItallie T (1991) New weight guidelines for 
Americans: justified or injudicious? American Journal of Clinical Nutrition , 53: 
1102–1103.
Willett WC, Sampson L, Stampfer MJ, Rosner B, Bain C, Witschi J, Hennekens CH, 
Speizer FE (1985) Reproducibility and validity of a semiquantitative food frequency 
questionnaire. American Journal of Epidemiology, 122: 51–65.
Williams MH (2005) Nutrition for Health, Fitness, and Sport , 7th edn. New York: McGraw Hill.
Williams MH, Kreider RB, Hunter DW, Somma CT, Shall LM, Woodhouse ML, Rokitski 
L (1990) Effect of inosine supplementation on 3-mile treadmill run performance 
and VO2 peak. Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 22: 517–522.
Willoughby DS, Chilek DR, Schiller DA, Coast JR (1991) The metabolic effects of three 

Bibliography   491
different free weight parallel squatting intensities. Journal of Human Movement Studies , 
21: 51–67.
Wilmore JH (1995) Variations in physical activity habits and body composition. Inter-
national Journal of Obesity, 19: S107–S112.
Wilmore JH (1996) Increasing physical activity: alterations in body mass and composi -
tion. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, 63: 456S–460S.
Wilmore JH, Brown CH (1974) Physiological profiles of women distance runners. Medi-
cine and Science in Sports and Exercise, 6: 178–181.
Wilmore JH, Costill DL (2004) Sex difference in sports and exercise. In Physiology of 
Sports and Exercise , 3rd edn. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, pp. 566–602.
Wilmore JH, Costill DL, Kenney WL (2008) Physiology of Sports and Exercise , 4th edn. 
Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics.
Wilmore JH, Parr RB, Ward P, Vodak PA, Barstow TJ, Pipes TV, Grimditch G, Leslie P 
(1978) Energy cost of circuit weight training. Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise, 10: 75–78.
Wing RR, Phelan S (2005) Long- term weight loss maintenance. American Journal of Clini-
cal Nutrition, 82: 222S–225S.
Wolfe RR (2001) Effects of amino acid intake on anabolic processes. Canadian Journal of 
Applied Physiology, 26(Suppl): S220–S227.
Wolfe RR (2006) Skeletal muscle protein metabolism and resistance exercise. Journal of 
Nutrition, 136: 525S–528S.
Woods SC, Seeley RJ, Porte D Jr, Schwartz MW (1998) Signals that regulate food intake 
and energy homeostasis. Science, 280: 1378–1383.
Yamamoto JB, Yamamoto BE, Yamamoto PP, Yamamoto LG (2008) Epidemiology of 
college athlete sizes, 1950s to current. Research in Sports Medicine, 16: 111–127.
Yanagimoto S, Aoki K, Horikawa N, Shibasaki M, Inoue Y, Nishiyasu T, Kondo N (2002) 
Sweating response in physically trained men to sustained handgrip exercise in mildly 
hyperthermic conditions. Acta Physiologica Scandinavica, 174: 31–39.
Yokoyama M, Origasa H, Matsuzaki M, Matsuzawa Y, Saito Y, Ishikawa Y, Oikawa S, Sasaki 
J, Hishida H, Itakura H, Kita T, Kitabatake A, Nakaya N, Sakata T, Shimada K, 
Shirato K (2007) Effects of eicosapentaenoic acid on major coronary events in hyper -
cholesterolaemic patients (JELIS): a randomised open- label, blinded endpoint ana -
lysis. Lancet, 369: 1090–1098.
Zachwieja JJ, Witt TL, Yarasheski KE (2000) Intravenous glutamine does not stimulate 
mixed muscle protein synthesis in healthy young men and women. Metabolism, 49: 
1555–1560.
Zanconato S, Buchthal S, Barstow TJ, Cooper DM (1993) 31P-magnetic resonance spec -
troscopy of leg muscle metabolism during exercise in children and adults. Journal of 
Applied Physiology, 74: 2214–2218.
Zanetti S, Pumpa KL, Wheeler KW, Pyne DB (2014) Validity of the SenseWear Armband 
to assess energy expenditure during intermittent exercise and recovery in rugby union players. Journal of Strength Conditioning Research, 28: 1090–1095.
Zemel MB, Shi H, Greer B, Dirienzo D, Zemel PC (2000) Regulation of adiposity by 
dietary calcium. The FASEB Journal, 14: 1132–1138.
Zinman B, Zuniga- Guajardo S, Kelly D (1984) Comparison of the acute and long term 
effects of physical training on glucose control in type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care, 7: 
515–519.
Zuliani U, Bonetti A, Campana M, Cerioli G, Solito F, Novarini A (1989) The influence 
of ubiquinone (Co Q 10) on the metabolic response to work. Journal of Sports Medicine 
and Physical Fitness, 29: 57–62.

Index
24-hour dietary recall 315–20, 337
25-hydroxyvitamin D 85–8, 3232000-kilocalorie diet 226–7
absorbed nutrients 132, 148–50, 323, 376
absorption 38, 50, 107, 111–13, 121, 132–44, 
146–58, 253, 377, 404; of alcohol 21, 38; of 
carbohydrate 239, 251; of copper 121; intestinal 98, 114, 235, 239, 254, 262, 420; of iron and vitamin B12 107, 116, 262, 290; of magnesium 114; processes 132, 141; of proteins 148; of vitamins 12, 88; of water 270, 420
accelerometers 314, 330–3, 338
Acceptable Macronutrient Distribution 
Ranges (AMDRs) 212, 218, 221, 240
accessory organs 136–7, 157
acetyl-CoA 31, 39, 97, 163, 174, 177–8, 
197–201, 205–7, 261, 270
acetylcholine 163, 182acid 7, 63, 65–6, 72, 109, 115, 139, 143, 153–4, 
255; alpha-linolenic 49, 59; blood lactic 398, 400; groups 47, 59, 65; nucleic 5–6, 17; and 
pepsin 143; pyruvic 172–3; retinoic 82, 84
active individuals 5, 36, 90, 101, 212, 229, 
231–3, 423, 425; and athletes 212, 229; 
with a higher than normal antioxidant intake 90
activities 7–8, 178–80, 185–6, 195–7, 229, 
286–7, 290–2, 329–38, 380–2, 390; aerobic 354; anaerobic 416; and athletics 178, 246, 280, 401; bacterial 148; biological 165; of 
cells 180; contractile 192; daily 285, 332–3, 
336; digestive 140; energy-cheap 380; enzyme 135; free-living 329; leisure-time 336; lipolytic 299; low-intensity 333, 400; non-weight-bearing 309, 397; prolonged 329, 426; of selected oxidative enzymes 290; short-duration 253; weight-bearing 87, 264, 285, 295, 308, 428
adenosine tri-phosphate (ATP) 96–7, 
113–14, 163–6, 170–2, 174, 176–9, 185, 198, 263–4, 379; citrate lyase 246, 270; synthesis 176, 257, 273adipose tissue 56, 183, 197, 299–300, 302–4, 
307, 347–8, 350–1, 368–9, 374–7
adipose tissue lipolysis 200, 283adolescence 70, 120, 280, 293–4, 378–9adolescents 12, 112, 114, 117, 293–4, 297, 
309, 342, 345, 428; and adults 428; age-related functional deficiency in children and 293, 309; and children 117, 279, 293–4, 297, 309, 345, 363; exercise metabolism in children and 293; maximal aerobic power in children and 294; methodological constraints in studying children and 293
adulthood 293, 378–9, 383
aerobic exercises 255, 291, 302, 305, 307–8, 
310, 382, 400, 402, 404
aerobic fitness 233, 290, 301, 379; exercise 
augmenting 396; stimulate RMR 379
aging 3, 265, 288–92, 349, 378, 427, 430; 
adults 349; biological 265; process 289, 
291; by raising plasma levels of DHEA 265
alanine 65, 194, 202, 205alcohol 11–12, 21, 24, 37–42, 142, 145–6, 
215, 246, 248–9, 416; absorption 21, 38; abuse 21, 37, 40–2, 155; amounts of 38–9, 41; and athletic performance 21, 40; consumption 3, 37–41; dehydrogenase 38–9; effects of 40–1; and energy content of selected alcoholic beverages 37; ingested 39; intake 41, 156; metabolizing of 21, 38–9; moderate use of 39; un-metabolized 38
alcoholic hepatitis 41alcoholism 97, 114, 118algorithms 314, 331, 334, 336alpha-linolenic acid 49, 59amenorrhea 234, 351, 357American Dietetic Association (ADA) 16, 69, 
231, 251, 293, 419
American football 230, 350–1, 355, 357, 414, 
416, 428
amino acids 9–10, 63–6, 68–73, 96–8, 134, 
146–50, 178, 201–8, 239–40, 254–5; active 204; additional 65; adequate 203; 

Index   493
catabolism of 201, 204; circulating 206; 
deamination of 404; dispensable 63, 65; 
energy metabolism of 190, 204; and excess glucose 394; and fatty acids for energy 100; generic 64; and glucose 72, 120; for glucose synthesis 206; in human muscle 
and plasma 257, 269; inert 201; lysine and 
methionine 99–100, 115, 118, 197; methionine and cysteine 99–100, 115, 118; nonessential 65, 98, 204, 257, 269; recycled 71; and sugars 149; supplementation 254; to synthesize muscle proteins 203, 232; to synthesize proteins 70; tryptophan 78, 262; tyrosine 120, 202; unused 68; uptake 183, 262
androstenedione (dietary supplement) 
245–6, 248, 256, 265–7, 276
animal proteins 68–9, 115, 117, 389animal studies 17, 196, 271, 282–3, 287anthropometric measurements 321–2anti-diuretic hormones 40, 409, 415–16, 429antibodies 37, 63, 72–3, 152, 304antioxidant supplementations 90, 101antioxidants 59, 83, 88–90, 95, 101–2, 233, 
395
appetite 109, 114, 132–3, 150–1, 153, 157, 
373, 375, 384, 415; control 375, 384; effect of hunger and 132, 150, 157, 375; loss of 93, 109, 114, 153, 322, 415; obesity genes influence 384; suppression of 32, 267, 270, 385, 394
aspirin 153, 260athletes 3–5, 229–35, 237–9, 246–9, 252–4, 
350–3, 355–6, 416–17, 419–20, 426–9; of ancient Greece 246; body fat percentages for male and female 357; and coaches 417, 419; collegiate 247, 355; competitive 232–3; dietary guidance for 233; elite 266, 356, 427; endurance of 27, 193, 229, 241, 264, 416; post-exercise period 239; power 232, 257, 263; professional 247; recreational 88; star 17, 352; strength-
trained 247
athletic competitions 239, 241, 248, 413, 423
Atkins, Robert 393ATP-PCr system 162, 171–2, 174, 178–9, 185Atwater general factors 162, 169average weight 342, 344, 388
bacteria 27, 68, 91–3, 97, 100, 143, 148, 153, 
155, 157
beans 25–7, 69, 110, 114, 214, 216–18, 223–5, 
241, 284–5, 288
beta cells 304
beverages 37–9, 127–8, 136, 216–17, 223, 
259–60, 308, 315–16, 318, 420–1
bicarbonate ions 143–4bicarbonate loading 245, 247, 255bicarbonates 139, 157, 246, 255, 276, 323bile acids 35, 57, 144, 146bioenergetics 163, 176, 179, 206, 325biosynthesis 163–4, 257, 270biotin 77–9, 93–5, 97, 102, 115; symptoms, of 
98
blood 30–5, 38–9, 51–2, 71–3, 84–6, 115–16, 
118–26, 148–9, 322–4, 428–9
blood capillaries 149blood cells 98, 100, 323blood clots 40, 57, 83, 91–3, 109, 111blood flow 179, 235, 272–3, 414, 418, 424–5, 
429
blood glucose 32, 35, 42, 121, 196, 305; 
concentrations 11, 31, 149, 183, 191, 
193–4, 208, 298, 303, 308–10; elevated 34, 
304; and fasting 310; and glycogen levels 36; homeostasis 33, 42, 96, 177, 193, 196, 206–7; and insulin levels 42; levels 30–6, 42, 158, 191, 193, 196, 201, 231–2, 304–7, 310; and lipid analysis 42
blood lactic acid 172, 174, 195, 199, 323, 398, 
400, 418
blood levels 88, 110–11, 207, 259, 282, 297, 
410
blood pressure 14, 43, 72, 108, 110, 114, 
124–5, 128, 415, 424–5; decreased 110; healthy 108; high 12, 41, 57, 108, 110, 430; low 351, 425; regulation of 86, 111
blood proteins 72, 80blood supply 182, 201blood testosterone levels 17blood tests 88
blood-vessels 71–2, 101, 126, 138, 144, 148–9, 
153, 155, 182, 197
blood volume 117, 125, 425
bloodstream 30, 38, 52, 120, 135, 144, 148–9, 
152, 270, 274
BMI (body mass index) 41, 341–2, 344–6, 
351, 355, 368–9, 383–4, 389; in evaluating patients 345; and waist circumference in adults 345
body builders 202, 254, 345, 351–2, 355, 416body cells 11, 30, 33–4, 46, 52, 69, 71, 148, 163body composition 262, 264–6, 281, 289, 
341–2, 344–5, 348–51, 356–8, 361–4, 367–9; assessments 322, 341, 356, 369; and body weight 303; changes in 262, 264, 279, 289; and health 341, 350; measuring 345, 349, 361; predicting 349; and sports performance 341, 351, 356; valid 
assessment of 348, 361
body density 341, 349, 358, 360, 364–5, 369
body fat 344–5, 348–51, 353, 355–61, 363–4, 
368–70, 374, 376–8, 383–5, 403; in  African Americans 361; in collegiate football players 361; in collegiate track-and field 361; content 355, 367, 384, 413; excessive 

494  Index
body fat continued
 22, 57–8, 356, 368, 428; in girls 294; and 
health risks 368; levels 309, 347, 350, 353, 
408, 428; low levels of 351, 353–4, 357; percentages 349, 351, 355–7; standards 345, 347; and weight 374
body fluids 135, 270, 330, 366, 412–13, 416
body functions 9, 12, 57, 78, 267
body glands 71body mass (BM) 258, 284–5, 294, 296–7, 342, 
353, 355, 358, 417, 419
body mass index see BMI (body mass index)body proteins 31, 42, 64–5, 68, 70, 73, 393body size 42, 229, 294–6, 322, 332, 359, 362, 
379, 412, 428
body temperature 11, 56, 117, 123, 126–7, 
180, 182, 409–13, 424–6, 429
body tissues 9, 11, 18, 22, 59, 102, 138, 164, 
273, 304–5
body volume 358–61body water 38–9, 123–4, 129, 345, 348–9, 
362, 366, 414–18, 422
body weight 231–2, 234–5, 255, 341–2, 
344–5, 355–6, 373–4, 376–8, 385–8, 415–19; adjusting to height 344; analysis of 
alcohol consumption patterns and 41; and 
body composition 303; and body fat 387; in children and adolescents 345; reducing of 274, 393, 401–2, 415; regulation 142, 403; standards 356; and stature in humans 344
bomb calorimeter 166–7, 324bone density 87, 234, 289, 351, 361bone health 79, 83, 112, 390
bones 70, 86–7, 91, 111–14, 274, 281, 288–9, 
348–9, 351–2, 358; dense 359; fragile 87; 
healthy 87, 285; mature 86; new 111–12, 122; rigidity of 113, 274; strengthening 111, 122; structural component of 113; and teeth 11, 106–7, 109, 111, 122, 128
Bouchard, Claude 384bowel disease, inflammatory 98bowel reflexes, normal 154
Boyle’s law 341, 361
brain 30, 32–3, 36, 40–2, 140, 142–3, 150–1, 
156–7, 374–7, 414; cells 259; and the central nervous system 30, 42; function 40, 58–9; and liver 150; and muscles 36
branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) 190, 
201–2, 206, 208, 245–6, 252, 256, 258–9, 420; and energy expenditure 258; oxidation of 258; for performance 
enhancement 206; positive effects of 
258–9; supplementing to advance exercise performance 206, 258–9, 276
breakfast cereals 98, 107, 117, 297Burke, Louise 4, 247, 284, 320butter 9, 16, 28, 47, 52–3, 55, 58–9, 79, 82, 84–5caffeine 145, 155–6, 245–6, 253, 259–61, 
267–8, 274, 276, 379, 420–1; and alcohol 145; consumption of 367; content 260; and improving endurance performance 260; ingestion 260; and placebo conditions 260
calcium 6, 86–8, 105–7, 110–14, 213, 227–8, 
234, 292–3, 297, 323; absorption 86, 107, 111–12, 235; change in cellular levels of 196; deficiency 112–13; in dietary planning 86–7, 113; homeostasis 83, 86, 113, 272; intake 15, 24, 41, 112, 224, 229, 237, 320, 392; iron supplements and medications 154, 196; low blood 86, 113; and magnesium 110; and phosphorous 106–7, 111, 128; supplements 114, 116, 235; and 
vitamins 297, 323
caloric equivalent of oxygen 327
calories 40–2, 212–13, 222–9, 281, 327–8, 
383–5, 388–9, 393–5, 397–8, 403–4; amount of 213, 235, 389; of carbohydrate and fat 28, 42, 338; counting 393; discretionary 213, 226; excess 231, 377, 385, 392, 394; high 404; low 213; reducing 228; supply for the use of the body 30, 42; 
total 169, 221–2, 318, 390, 394, 398
calorimetry 281–2, 298, 302, 314, 324–8, 332, 
334, 336–8
cancers 2–3, 9, 41–2, 46, 57–9, 87, 89–90, 
102, 228–9, 266–7; pancreatic 41; 
pharyngeal 41; prostate 4, 119
capillaries 72, 124, 149, 157, 201; blood 149; 
merging to form venules 149; and mitochondria 201
carbohydrate intake 231, 237, 239, 284, 287, 
303, 394
carbohydrate metabolism 31, 117, 190–1, 
282–3, 308
carbohydrate oxidation 166, 174, 238, 291, 
296, 301, 326–7; change in composition of 327; exogenous 239; lower 283; total 306
carbohydrate utilization 190, 192–3, 197, 
199, 207–8, 283, 301, 308
carbohydrates 9–12, 21–43, 165–70, 190–3, 
231–2, 235–41, 251–4, 326–9, 393–4, 420; bodily 177, 200, 208, 394; and calories 28, 42, 338; complex 9, 21–5, 36, 42, 231, 307; consuming 4, 168; content 28, 252–3, 275; dietary 30, 36, 293, 385, 393; digestible 31, 143; and energy 27, 56, 193; exogenous 253; and fat utilization 190, 199, 309; feeding 238, 296; foods 32, 239, 394; high-
glycemic 199, 241; ingestion 238, 279, 296; 
and lipids 64, 73, 192; loading 27, 237, 249, 254; metabolize 286; oxidizing 337; simple 23–5, 42, 307; starchy 214; stored 11, 24, 170, 206; supplementary 212, 238; total 226–7, 253; well-refined 22

Index   495
carbon atoms 23, 37, 48
carbon bonds 23, 48
carbon chains 59, 73, 98carbon dioxide 24, 30–1, 93, 108, 116, 126, 
324, 326–8, 338; content 323; and ethanol 24; gases 66; production 324, 329; and 
water 24, 31, 324
carbon skeletons 24, 73, 205–6
carbons 5–6, 10, 17, 23–4, 42, 47–50, 59, 64, 
177, 179; central 64; single 48; source of 394
cardiorespiratory 381, 401; fitness 395–6, 
399, 402–3; systems 405
cardiovascular disease 15, 39–40, 57–9, 
89–90, 114, 229, 304, 324, 344–5, 355
carnitine palmitoyl transferase (CPT) 
(enzyme) 190, 197, 201
carrots 27–9, 32, 82–3, 89, 92, 128, 216, 241, 
319, 321
casein 246, 257, 274–6catabolism 134, 163–4, 170, 191, 201, 204, 
208, 271; of amino acids 201, 204; dietary leucine 271; and fat 197; of lipids 170; protein 203, 206; skeletal muscle 323
catfish 257, 271cell deaths 88cell membranes 7–8, 18, 49–50, 56–7, 113, 
117–21, 123–4, 182–3, 186, 304–5
cells 5–8, 30–1, 33–5, 71–3, 86–9, 116–17, 
120–6, 170–2, 182–3, 304–5; absorptive 144, 147; bone-building 111; cancer 118, 267; endocrine 183; epithelial 87, 138; glandular 182; hormone-producing 140; 
immune 84, 101, 152; infection-fighting 
149; intestine 50; liver 30; living 115, 165, 176; marrow 87; mucosal 52, 72, 121, 138, 144, 149; muscle 56, 163, 264; and organisms 71; satellite 207; special 33–4; target 71, 84, 182; yeast 24
cereals 28–9, 114, 116, 154, 156, 168, 215, 
284–5, 288, 292; bran 292; fortified 83, 284; fruits and wholegrain breads and 154; 
ready-to-eat 99, 288
cerebrovascular diseases 3
chains 25, 27, 47, 49, 64–6, 72, 97, 115, 165, 
198; of amino acids 143, 202; electron transport 95–6, 116, 122, 174–5, 198; of fatty acid 177; of glycogen for storage 33
cheese 68–9, 95, 97, 111, 113, 215–16, 218, 
256, 285, 391
chemical reactions 98, 106–7, 123, 126, 
128–9, 135–6, 139, 165, 171–2, 323
chemiosmotic hypothesis 162–3, 176chickens 32, 55, 84–5, 89, 91, 128, 232, 
284–5, 391
children 87–8, 112, 115–16, 120–2, 202–3, 
214–15, 293–7, 309, 322, 428; active 296; and adolescents 117, 279, 293–4, 297, 309, 345, 363; and adults 294–5; aerobic exercise in 295; body fat in 361; in developing countries 118; diets of 297; growing 114, 116, 349; and infants 88, 108, 227, 322, 377; inner-city 87; low-income 118; normal-weight 383; nutritional status 
in infants and 322; vitamin A deficiency in 
84, 87
chloride 6, 105, 107–8, 110–11, 123, 128, 
234, 253, 275, 420
cholesterol 7, 35, 47, 50–2, 55, 57–9, 96–7, 
226–9, 265–6, 323–4
chromium 105, 107, 115, 120–1, 128, 245–6, 
253, 262, 276
chromium picolinate (ergogenic aid for 
athletes) 121, 262
chronic diseases 2, 4, 12, 87–8, 217, 220–1, 
322, 324, 346, 350–1; age-related 40; decreasing risk of 88; developing 221, 297; life-threatening 2; major 222; nutrition-related 324
chylomicrons 46, 52, 59, 80, 82, 88, 91circuit weight training 373, 381, 405circulatory cooling 427, 430
citrus fruits 27, 79, 101, 288
coaches 234–5, 247, 338, 417, 419Code, Robert 420coefficients of digestibility 168–9coenzymes 83, 93–4, 96–100, 102, 133, 136, 
233, 245–6, 249
common foods 29, 34, 260competitions 235, 237, 239, 241, 270, 273, 355, 
416, 419–20, 422; athletic 239, 241, 248, 413, 
423; body weight for 427; sports 247, 251, 
275; and training 239, 246, 416, 420
competitive diets 212–41components 1–2, 52–3, 106–7, 113, 141, 143, 
171, 269, 273, 352; of amino acids 72; of cell membranes 46, 56, 113; of chyme 147, 157; dietary 115, 128, 227, 318, 337; important 4, 17, 22, 142, 351, 369, 383, 388, 390; individual 134, 157; integral 256, 
262; interconnected 181; lipid-soluble 
natural 262; significant genetic 384
constipation 132–3, 148, 152, 154–6, 158, 
268, 290, 393; causes of 154; and slower peristalsis 290; treating of 154–5
consumers 16, 38, 58, 216, 223, 226–8, 247, 
251, 271, 275
control groups 1, 14–15, 250, 262control system 162, 180–2, 186, 374, 403; 
biological 181, 186; body’s homeostatic 179; hormonal 162, 182; regulatory 140
cooking oils 12, 52, 59cooling 412, 426; circulatory 427, 430; 
convective 412; effects 413; evaporative 413–14, 419, 423, 427–8; mechanical 426; of skin 413

496  Index
copper 101, 105–7, 115, 121–2, 252, 323; 
absorption 121; coils 325; deficiency 
121–2; in plant foods 121; and selenium 106; and zinc 121
cortisol (hormone) 57, 183, 186, 199–200, 
206–8, 286
creatine 240, 245–6, 252, 263–4, 276; 
adequate dietary 263; concentration 264; elevating intramuscular 265; exogenous 263; free 263; kinase 171, 259, 261, 271; monohydrate 14, 264; supplements 264–5
cysteine 65, 69, 115, 205cystine 65
daily energy expenditure 281, 290, 377, 383, 
395, 401, 403
dairy foods 34, 74
Dam, Henrik 91death 2–3, 12, 32, 41, 58–9, 100, 342, 415–17, 
423, 426; fetal 120; by firearms 3; heat-related 234, 427; predicting risk of 342; premature 345, 369; rates 87
deficiency diseases 82–3, 87
dehydration 148, 155, 331, 333, 408–9, 413, 
415–19, 422–4, 427, 429–30
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) (dietary 
supplement) DHEA 245, 248, 256, 265–7, 
276
density 52, 348–9, 358, 369; of body fat 348, 
358; bone mineral 258, 362; high nutrient 213, 404; low-energy 389; low nutrient 113, 233; maximizing micronutrient 233; of 
water 358, 360
designing a healthy competitive diet 212–41
diabetes 2–3, 35, 40–2, 289, 297, 303–5, 
307–8, 310, 345, 350–1; developing 286, 303; diagnosing 324; insulin-dependent 304; managing 35; mellitus 279, 304, 342, 351; preventing 305
diabetics 300, 304–6, 308diarrhea 95–6, 108–10, 114, 132–3, 148, 
152–3, 155–6, 158, 415, 418; acute exercise-induced 155; and bacterial infections 152; decreasing 156; prolonged 148; treating mild 155; and vomiting 108, 110
diet 9–10, 14–17, 57–61, 64–5, 77–80, 
99–102, 110–12, 212–14, 226–33, 392–5; 2000-kilocalorie 226; adult 110, 113, 118, 297; assessing 317; current 323; daily 10, 
233; energy-dense 387; fads 388, 392; 
healthy 2–4, 22, 42, 47, 152, 223, 289; high-carbohydrate/low-fat 222; high-fat/protein 404; high-sodium 127; human 22, 78, 117, 120; ketogenic 394; low-carbohydrate 393–5, 404; low-micronutrient-dense 233; normal 238, 374, 394; nutrient-deficient 97; nutrient-poor 114; nutritious 212, 214, 222; and physical activity 276; planning 222, 226, 321; plans 392, 394, 404; poor 2, 87, 214, 297; protein-rich 117; riboflavin-poor 96; well-balanced 229, 234, 390
dietary analysis 60, 315, 318, 337dietary approaches 394–5dietary assessment 316, 320dietary components 115, 128, 227, 318, 337dietary deficiency 96dietary factors 4, 15, 111, 116dietary fat 50, 59, 80, 222, 232, 270, 375, 385, 
393
dietary fiber 26, 28, 136, 156, 226–8, 318, 395
dietary folate equivalents (DFE) 95, 99
dietary guidelines 42, 214–17, 222–3, 229, 
240; Australian 215; first set of 214; official 222
Dietary Guidelines for Americans 212, 217, 
222–3, 389, 393
dietary habits 10, 222dietary history 314, 317, 320dietary intake 108, 113, 117, 193, 202, 218, 
240, 315, 318, 321
dietary iron 115–16dietary reference standards 212, 218dietary sources 105–6, 203, 261dietary supplementation 212, 239dietary supplements 228, 247–8, 250, 259, 
274, 315; ephedra-free 274; industry 249, 275; selling of 248
dietitians 231, 419
diets 35–6, 57, 59–60, 68–9, 100–2, 110–14, 
231–3, 388, 392–5, 404; high-carbohydrate 
35, 237, 241, 385, 394; high-fat 222, 249, 297, 385, 387; high-fiber 127, 156; liquid formula 18, 392–3; low-calorie 233, 392–3; low carbohydrate 31, 36–7; low-fat 15, 385, 394–5, 404; modified 60–1
digestibility, coefficient of 168–9digestion 24–5, 38, 50, 133–4, 136–45, 153, 
157, 163, 377, 383
digestion and absorption 30, 132–44, 147–58, 
404
digestive efficiency 162–3, 168digestive enzymes 42, 139, 141, 143–4, 148, 
152, 157
digestive secretions 138–40digestive system 132, 136–8, 140–1, 151–2, 
155, 157, 290, 378
digestive tract 9, 35, 71, 77, 80, 133, 136, 138, 
141–2, 152
direct calorimetry 314, 324–5, 327, 337disaccharides 21–5, 28, 42, 134, 143, 166discretionary calories 213, 226diseases 2–5, 12, 15, 58–9, 65–6, 72–3, 87, 91, 
101–2, 112–13; alcohol-related 39; 

Index   497
autoimmune 304; cerebrovascular 3; 
chronic 2, 4, 12, 87–8, 217, 220–1, 322, 
324, 346, 350–1; common 5; deficiency 82–3, 87; gastrointestinal 114; intestinal 155; kidney 3, 114, 426; lung 3, 426; metabolic 9; neuromuscular 356; 
progressive 41; ulcer 153; see also chronic 
diseases
DOMS 190, 203, 259, 261double-labeled water technique 314drinking water 118, 122, 426drinks 37, 39, 41, 158, 186, 215–17, 251–3, 
315, 319–20, 422–3; alcoholic 39; cola 28, 238; energy 186, 253; energy and vitamin water 308; fluid/electrolyte replacement 
252–3, 275; fruit 29, 101, 308; soft 24, 28, 
109, 113, 127, 308, 318, 385, 389; soya 214; standard 38–9, 41
dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) 
341, 349, 358, 361–2
egg yolks 53, 55, 82, 85, 95, 97, 120, 256, 262eggs 50, 53, 55, 66, 68–9, 84–5, 95–7, 100, 
168, 214–15
electrolyte losses 234, 424electrolyte replacement drinks 252–3, 275electrolytes 105, 107–8, 110, 123–4, 128, 148, 
414–15, 420, 424–5, 429
electrons 5–6, 90, 122, 136, 165, 174, 176, 
263
endocrine cells 183endurance performance 238–9, 249, 253, 
256, 260, 263–4, 270–4, 283, 417, 420; 
and blood glucose 263; ergogenic aid for 
263; improving 256, 261; and its ergogenic effect on body composition 271
energy 9–12, 30–3, 162–72, 174–80, 185–6, 
191–3, 231–2, 251–3, 324–7, 381–3; transfers 78, 164, 172, 179, 192, 264; values 169, 333
energy balance 37, 113, 303, 338, 373–7, 383, 
386, 402; disruption in 383; high-calcium intake on 113; important concept of 377; long-term 376; negative 374, 377; positive 2, 374, 377, 380, 384; regulation of 176, 185, 373–4; and weight control 303, 373–90, 392–6, 398–405
energy consumption and output 162, 166, 
218, 240, 314–39, 351, 385, 395, 404; and 24 hour dietary recall 315–20; analyzing 
nutrient and energy content 321–37; 
assessing energy expenditure and substrate utilization 324; assessing nutritional status 315; and dietary history 320; and food frequency questionnaires 318, 320–1; and food intake record 316; and other methods of assessing nutritional health 321energy-containing nutrients 4, 163–4, 166, 
170, 185, 221
energy content 37, 162, 166–7, 169, 213, 226, 
240, 314, 321; in foods 167; of macronutrients and alcohol 12; measurement of 162, 166; and nutrients 
314, 321; total 167
energy cost 285–6, 308, 324, 327, 333, 
379–81, 383, 386, 394, 404; examined 382; 
excess 295; net 403; of physical activities 327; reducing 353; total 379
energy drinks 186, 253energy expenditure 176, 270, 279, 290, 324, 
328–38, 380–1, 386, 395–6, 402–4; daily total 281, 290, 327, 373, 377, 383, 386, 395, 
401–3; estimating 178, 331, 335–6; gender 
differences in 279, 281; in humans 176, 336–7; increased daily 351; increasing 176, 247, 376, 392, 403–4; and indices of body composition 342; maximizing 373, 390, 395–7, 400, 402; measurement of 324, 329; measuring 334; and physical activity 334, 338; post-exercise 400; quantifying 327; reduced 281, 404; resting 379, 387, 401, 
403; tracking 336; and weight loss 268, 
396; women’s 281
energy fuels 166, 169, 201, 205–6, 208, 256, 
269, 291, 328
energy homeostasis 179, 183–4energy intake 230, 233, 240, 293, 297, 373–7, 
383–4, 387–8, 392, 394; average 24, 220; balancing 223, 405; for children 297; daily 393; decreasing 289, 376, 403; dietary 73; 
higher 385; increased 385–6; increasing 
235; long-term 403; low 394; reducing 373, 389, 392; restricted 253; total 36, 221, 229, 283, 308, 394, 404
energy metabolism 93–4, 96–7, 109–10, 
135–6, 176, 179, 185–6, 204–5, 207–8, 399–400
energy metabolism of amino acids 190, 204energy output 191, 209, 374, 377, 384, 386, 
388, 394–5, 398, 405
energy production 71, 73, 96, 98, 100, 114, 
116, 191, 193, 233–4
energy requirements 12, 127, 129, 163, 192, 
293, 377
energy source 30–1, 170–1, 176, 178, 185–6, 
192–4, 251–2, 296, 300–1, 309
energy substrates 170, 172, 197, 201, 295, 
326, 329, 379
energy systems 171–2, 175, 178–9, 185energy transformation 162–3, 170–1, 179, 
246, 337
energy-yielding metabolic pathways 94, 
162–87
energy-yielding nutrients 1, 9–10, 12, 18, 30, 
56, 96–7, 126

498  Index
environment 126–7, 129, 150, 152, 157, 373, 
375, 386–7, 411–14, 428–9; acidic 111; 
aqueous 80; changing 71; cool 420, 428, 430; cooler 379, 425; hot 126–7, 417, 422, 427–9; humid 419, 423, 428–9; internal 180–2, 186, 288; neutral 72, 143; watery 
126
environmental factors 78, 373, 384–5, 404, 
410
enzymes 25–7, 71, 79–81, 113–14, 116–19, 
121–2, 132–6, 138–9, 143, 195–7; rate-
limiting 196, 208
ephedrine 245–6, 248, 260, 267–9, 274, 276, 
426
epidemiological research 1, 15
epinephrine 183, 185, 191, 195–6, 261, 379, 
399, 410; concentration 208; as hormones 
197; and norepinephrine 183, 196, 261, 410; release 208; stimulation by 196; and thyroid hormone 379; and thyroid hormones 379
epithelial cells 87, 138EPOC 380, 382, 399–403ergogenic aids 16, 121, 245–9, 254, 263–4, 
266, 268, 270–1, 274–6
ergogenic aids and supplements 245–76ergogenic effects 250, 254–5, 260, 264, 266, 
268, 271; alleged 269; of bicarbonate loading 255; of caffeine 260; of carbohydrate 254; of ephedrine 268
essential nutrients 9, 41–2, 78–9, 113, 115, 
213, 218, 221, 248, 251
estimated energy requirement (EERs) 213, 
218, 220–1, 224, 240, 292, 405
estrogen 207, 234, 265–7, 280, 282–3, 286, 
308; blood levels of 282; concentrations of 267; inhibitive effect of 308; inhibitive role of 283; injecting 282; and progesterone 282–3, 286; replacement 207; role of 283; supplementation 282; and testosterone 282
exercise 190–208, 229–41, 268–76, 279–87, 
305–10, 379–82, 395–405, 408–14, 416–20, 
427–30; arrangements 396, 400; capacity 
249, 429–30; in children 296; duration 260, 395–6, 398, 404, 423; efficiency 273; guidelines 281, 396–7; heavy 179, 191, 203, 329, 367; intensity of 178–9, 192–3, 195, 197–9, 202, 258–9, 395–6, 398–9, 403–5, 410; intensive 270, 399; intermittent 238, 336, 374, 399; moderate 171, 179, 192–3, 197, 396, 413; modes 274, 276, 333, 400; 
and physical activity 395; prolonged 191, 
194, 197, 199, 205, 208, 253, 269–70, 419, 422; regular 152, 156, 287, 428; and sports participants 133; static 332, 334, 338; steady-state 199, 326–7, 380, 399–400; strenuous 30, 169, 193, 195, 206–7, 287, 303, 309, 396, 398–9exercise intensity 190, 192–3, 195, 197–8, 
202, 283, 329–30, 395–6, 398–9, 403–5; changes in 285; and duration 190, 192, 198, 399, 404; and fat utilization 373, 398; level of 207, 330, 396, 403; and oxidation 202; and oxidation of leucine 202
exercise metabolism 183, 280–2, 293exercise performance 163, 233–4, 249, 259, 
263, 273–4, 408, 416–18, 422, 428–9
exercise prescription 395, 402, 404exercise program 303, 309–10, 395–6, 398, 
400
exercise sessions 382, 395–6, 399, 402–3exercise strategies 373, 390, 395, 399, 405exercise training 233–4, 303, 310, 403
fat 47–50, 53, 56–61, 197–202, 215–16, 
225–8, 231–2, 347–50, 387–91, 393–4
fat content 52–3, 362
fat-free mass (FFM) 344–5, 348–9, 351, 
354–6, 358–9, 362, 366, 369, 378, 401
fat-free mass density 348–50, 358–9fat mass 121, 344–5, 348–9, 351, 356, 362–3, 
369, 384
fat metabolism 31, 36, 39, 95, 113, 270, 279, 
282–3, 291, 301
fat oxidation 198–201, 207–8, 261, 270–1, 
291, 295–6, 301, 306–9, 327, 398; highest 199, 398; maximal rate of 398, 405; reduced 291; total 271, 306
fat-soluble vitamins 51, 59, 77, 79–83, 91, 93, 
102, 144, 149, 232
fat tissue 364, 366
fat utilization 190, 195, 197–9, 201, 291, 
300–1, 307, 309, 398, 404–5
fat weight 355–6
fatty acids 199–200; biosynthesis 270; 
circulating 297, 306; and glycerol 52, 176, 200; long-chain 47, 52, 197, 199, 201, 256, 261; monounsaturated 47, 53, 308, 389; oxidation 197, 282; polyunsaturated 47–8, 53, 59, 389; saturated 47–50, 53, 55, 389; 
unsaturated 47–9, 53, 90, 101
fatty fish 85, 308
female athletes 233–5, 284–5, 351, 356–7, 
361
females 4, 87, 91, 279, 281, 284, 344, 347, 
350, 353; active 347; adult 347, 350; amenorrhoeic 283; facial hair growth in 267
ferrous iron 106, 116
fetal tissues 118, 285, 287–8, 308
fiber 26–9, 32, 35–6, 42, 154, 156–7, 227–9, 
251–2, 307–8, 389
fish 53–5, 57–8, 82–3, 94–6, 109–10, 113–15, 
213–16, 224, 227, 284–5; canned 109; fried 391; oils 49, 85, 91; and seafood products 53; sticks 60; unbreaded 391

Index   499
fitness 1, 3–5, 15, 17, 212–13, 229–30, 333–4, 
356–7, 426–7, 430; benefits 400; 
competitors 351, 416; levels 155, 287, 290, 400, 415; programs 395, 404; and sport 212–13
fluid 72, 127, 148–9, 154–5, 241, 252–4, 
414–16, 418–20, 422–3, 428–30; absorption 420, 430; balance 63, 72, 108, 110, 408–20, 422–31; consumption 414, 416, 418
fluoride 6, 105, 115, 122folate 29, 77, 79–80, 93–7, 99–100, 152, 
287–8, 323
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 86, 
90, 227–8, 247–8
Food and Nutrition Board 296–7
food and supplement labels 110, 114, 116, 
118–20
food diary 314, 316–18, 337
food energy 26, 163, 214food frequency questionnaires 314, 316, 
318–20, 337
food groups 2, 17, 168, 214–17, 223–4, 226, 
233, 240–1, 288, 320
food intake 132–3, 150, 289–90, 316, 318, 
321, 374–7, 385, 388, 390; daily 151; and energy expenditure 375; inadequate 35; increasing 231; lowering 230; modulate 150, 376; record 314, 316, 337; regulation 151, 376
food labels 11, 212, 226, 228, 321food processing 49–50, 79, 93, 99, 106–8food sources 21, 27, 50, 63, 69–70, 82–5, 89, 
92, 121–2, 153
foods 9–14, 32–6, 79–80, 106–11, 136–45, 
150–3, 164–9, 213–17, 222–32, 315–21; acid-fortified 115, 288; addition of nutrients to 79; amount of chromium in 121; animal 22, 24, 48, 55, 82, 117, 168, 204; calcium-fortified 285; carbohydrate 32, 239, 394; convenience 88; dried 167; empty calorie 213; energy-dense 389; fast 108; fat-free 4, 47; fatty 47; fortified 87, 99, 
220, 292; fried 285; grain cereal 215; high-
calorie 385; high-carbohydrate 231; high-fat 36, 56, 384–5, 389, 404; high-fiber 32, 35, 235, 308; high GL 34; high-potassium 110; high-protein 96; ingested 168; iron-fortified 116, 284; lactose-containing 153; low GI 34; magnesium-rich 114; medium GL 34; nutrient-dense 107, 213, 217, 223, 292, 388; nutritious 215–16; packaged 82; 
plant 22, 50, 59, 68–9, 73, 98, 121, 229; 
processed 10, 88, 108–9, 215, 233; raw 228, 321; selected 28, 53, 55; sport 271; sports 245, 251, 275; swallowed 141–2; unprocessed 108, 110
free fatty acids (FFA) 177, 184, 193, 197–200, 
263, 270, 282, 291, 299, 327free radicals 82, 88–90, 101, 107, 116, 119, 
121, 263; actions of 119; donating electrons to 89; scavenging of 263; stabilization of 82
fructose 22, 24–5, 30, 32, 42, 134, 144, 200, 
238–9, 420–1
fruit drinks 29, 101, 308fruits 26–9, 80, 213–16, 218, 223–5, 231, 
284–5, 292–3, 389–91, 393–4; citrus 27, 79, 101, 288; and frozen vegetables 80; and milk 231; raw 227; and vegetables 24, 28, 80–1, 98, 102, 108, 214, 216, 223, 229; and wholegrain breads 154
fuel utilization 178, 199–200, 208–9functions 30–1, 71–3, 99–102, 106–8, 116–17, 
121, 138–41, 182, 206–8, 294; abnormal 323; behavioral 58; biological 185; bodily 163; body 9, 12, 57, 78, 267; cardiac 183; cardiovascular 429; carnitine 261; cellular 84, 176, 202; digestive 138, 140, 152; enzyme’s 171; glucagon 183; glucoregulatory 196; impaired 384; of iron 116; kidney 201; leptin 403; magnesium 114; membrane 256, 258; metabolic 289, 
300, 304; mitochondrial 263, 290; 
muscular 381; nerve 9, 95, 107–8, 110, 113, 128; neural 122, 384; neuromuscular 233, 253, 401, 418; non-coenzyme 97; norandrostenediol 266; nutrient 11; organ 40; psychological 247; reductive 347; regulatory 64; to simulate glycogenolysis 294; specialized 7; thermal 380; thermoregulatory 423, 430
galactose 22, 24–5, 30, 42, 238gall-bladders 137, 139, 143–5, 156–7gallstones 40, 132–3, 152, 156, 393gastric inhibitory proteins 133, 140, 143–4gastrointestinal tract 107–8, 126–7, 132–3, 
136–40, 142, 149–51, 156–7, 358–9, 375, 403–4
Gatorade 238, 251, 253, 420–1
gender differences 281, 294, 308, 427, 430; 
in energy expenditure 279, 281; in energy 
metabolism 281; in exercise metabolism 282; in substrate metabolism 280
glands 140, 184; adrenal 110, 183, 256, 
265–6, 282, 414; body 71; endocrine 182–3; gastric 143; salivary 137, 139, 141; sweat 127, 413, 427
glucagon functions 183
gluconeogenesis 31, 36, 40, 73, 183–4, 190–1, 
194–5, 205–6, 208, 269–70
glucose 24–7, 30–4, 42, 72–3, 169–74, 191–7, 
205–8, 238–40, 302–5, 420–2; and amino 
acid uptake 183, 262; amounts of 30, 298, 324; clamp technique 298, 300; disposal 298–9, 302; electrolyte solutions 409, 420; 

500  Index
glucose continued
 and fructose 25, 239, 296; and glycogen 
22, 192; metabolism 97, 194, 280, 298, 301, 
304; molecules 6, 24–5, 64, 134–5, 172, 174, 177, 196, 198, 305–6; and normal blood levels 33, 35, 291; output 196, 208; oxidation 300–1; polymer solutions 238, 
252, 275, 409, 420, 422; production 95, 
194, 270, 305, 394; storage 300, 302; tolerance 280, 286, 289, 291, 297–8, 303, 351, 400; transporters 31, 280, 283, 302, 304–5; units 26–7, 42
glucose concentration 206, 420; blood 31, 
183, 191, 208; relatively stable blood 183
glucose levels 33; controlling blood 307; 
elevated blood 121; lower blood 32; 
regulating blood 107, 128
glucose uptake 120–1, 182, 184, 194, 199, 
284, 297, 300–3, 305–6, 309; enhanced 
302; hepatic 196; increased peripheral 305; insulin-mediated 286, 300; produced 306; rate of 193, 306; reduced insulin-mediated 300; stimulating blood 206
glutamine 65, 186, 205, 245–6, 269, 276glycemic index 32, 34, 239, 241, 307, 385
glycemic response 21, 32, 35, 305
glycerol 50, 52, 134, 176–7, 195, 197, 200, 
245–6, 269–70, 422–3
glycogen 21–2, 24, 26–7, 30, 33–4, 169–73, 
191–2, 194–6, 294, 301–2; amounts of 27, 191; in animals 42; breakdown 33, 172, 194–5, 418; concentration 281, 296; content 283, 301, 306, 309; degradation 196; depletion 31, 193, 302–3; depletion 
pattern 306; and fat 34; and glucose 22, 
192; in muscle and liver 24, 166; and protein 56, 183; and starch 42; storage 300, 302; stores 27, 34, 36, 169, 192, 199, 201, 208, 231, 394; supercompensation 212–13, 237, 283; synthesis 196, 238–9, 297, 300, 302, 309, 394; utilization 192, 196, 282–3, 296, 306
glycogen phosphorylase 191, 195–6, 208
glycogen stores 237–8, 241; depleting 237; 
exhausting of 418; limited 36; replenishing 
239; total 30
glycogenolysis 163, 172, 183, 191–2, 194–5, 
201, 208, 296
glycolysis 95–7, 162–3, 171–2, 177–9, 196–7, 
201, 207, 263, 265, 294
glycolytic system 162–3, 171, 174, 185grains 9, 25–6, 28–9, 79, 118, 213, 215, 218, 
223–4, 391; cereal 24; enriched 93, 95, 115; long 34; refined 117, 121; short 34; and vegetables 9, 232
growth hormone (GH) 184, 199–200, 206–8, 
254, 256, 384
Gunnell, Sally 264gymnastics 229–30, 264, 351–2, 354, 357
health 1–4, 12–13, 15–17, 214–15, 222, 
341–5, 347–53, 355–64, 366–70, 386–8; 
benefits 148, 389–90; conditions 350; consequences 2, 125, 235, 368, 395; dietary 214; and disease 2, 17; and physical 
functions 289; problems 2, 21, 40, 219, 
322, 344–5, 350, 390, 425; professionals 214, 216, 235; risks 368
heart 31–2, 40, 93, 95, 100, 148–9, 197, 201, 
414, 418; attack 3, 40, 42–3; enlarged 93; function 109, 114; and liver 70, 201, 282
heart disease 2–3, 12, 15, 35, 40–2, 47, 57–8, 
266–7, 289, 342; associated 426; and cancer 102; developing 42, 297; risk of 42, 
52, 57
heart rate 41, 182, 209, 270, 333, 414, 418, 
424–5, 427, 429; and body temperature 
270; increased 185, 429; maximal 290, 396, 400; monitoring 314, 329, 333, 338; motion sensor technique 334; rapid 117; reserve (HRR) 396
heartburn 132–3, 142, 154heat 99, 106, 126–7, 164, 167–8, 176, 324–5, 
409–14, 417–18, 425–30; of combustion 168–9; cramps 234, 408, 424–5, 430; loss 412–14, 429; stress 257, 270, 333, 410, 414, 418, 424–5, 428, 430
heat acclimatization 408–9, 427–8, 430heat dissipation 335, 408, 410–12, 414, 
427–9; mechanisms 410; rate of 335, 412
heat exhaustion 234, 408, 410, 424–6, 430heat injuries 408, 422–4, 426–7, 430
heat loss 409–14, 428
heat production 324, 327, 408–10, 412–13, 
429; body’s 410; and heat loss 409, 413; individual metabolic 412; rate of 324, 409–10
heat-stroke 234, 408, 410, 424–6, 430heat tolerance 234, 354, 408, 427height and weight measurements 341–2, 345‘heme iron’ 106, 115–16
hemoglobin 66, 71, 95, 97–9, 106, 115–17, 
272–3, 280, 284, 288
hemorrhoids 132–3, 155
hepatic glucose output 183, 191, 193–4, 196, 
208, 283
hepatic portal circulation 133, 149, 157hepatitis 41heredity 155, 304, 373, 384–7, 404high-carbohydrate diets 35, 237, 241, 385, 394
high-fat diets 222, 249, 297, 385, 387
high-fat intake 15, 57high-fiber diets 127, 156high-fructose corn syrup 24, 251, 421high-intensity exercise 30, 163, 191, 201, 208, 
237, 263, 329, 399, 401

Index   501
homeostasis 90, 118, 163, 180–2, 399, 428; 
blood glucose 33, 42, 96, 177, 193, 196, 
206–7; body’s 71, 380, 382; calcium 83, 86, 113, 272; maintaining glucose 21, 33
hormones 71, 140, 143, 145, 182–3, 186, 
195–7, 200, 299, 377–9
hunger 35, 132–3, 142, 150, 157, 375–6, 389; 
and appetite 150, 157; and satiety 150, 375–6, 389; short-term 403
hydrogen 5–6, 10, 23–4, 42, 47–9, 59, 165, 
167, 170, 329; atoms 6, 49, 64, 134, 165, 174; bonds 66, 167, 169; carriers 165, 174; concentration 72; final acceptor 174; ions 7, 72, 113, 122, 134, 196, 255–6, 264; and oxygen 10, 23, 42; peroxide molecules 122
hydrolysis 123, 132–4, 157, 165–6, 171, 239; 
and condensation 133; rapid 27; reactions 30, 134–5, 139, 157
hydrostatic weighing 341, 344, 355, 358–62, 
364, 366, 369
hydroxy citric acid (HCA) 245–6, 257, 270–1, 
276 
hyperglycemia 32, 191, 206, 208, 302, 305–6, 
309
hyperhydration 257, 270, 408–9, 422–3; 
advantages of 422; disadvantages of 422; positive effect on 270; pre-exercise 422; procedure 422; water-induced 422
hyperinsulinemia 298, 306hypoglycemia 4, 32, 35, 42, 191–3, 195, 
205–8, 270, 286–7, 310
hypohydration 415–17, 422
immune functions 37, 53, 57, 83–4, 101, 117, 
119, 256, 265–6, 269; and the effect of 
glutamine supplementation 269; enhancing of 266; impaired 118, 293; improving 118; optimal 108; preserving 269
indirect calorimetry 281–2, 298, 302, 314, 
324–8, 332, 334, 336–8
infants 55, 58, 65, 87–8, 91–2, 98, 102, 108, 
116, 377–8; and children 88, 108, 227, 322, 377; preterm 114, 122
infections 3, 101, 118, 122, 151, 153, 155–6, 
257, 269; bacterial 152; recurring 118; transmitted 3; viral 266
infectious diseases 3inflammation 36, 41, 58, 88, 95–6inflammatory bowel disease 98ingestion 32, 253, 255, 259, 263, 268, 270, 
274, 416, 419; of BCAA 259; of glucose 239; intermittent 296; oral 261; reducing 155
inosine supplementation 245–6, 257, 263, 
272, 276
insulin 33, 35, 182–3, 196, 200–1, 206–8, 
296–9, 301–7, 309–10, 376–7; action 35, 256, 262, 297, 299, 302–3, 309, 351; concentration 299, 302; mediated glucose disposal 302; plasma 196, 298; resistance 4, 279–80, 286–7, 291, 297–301, 303, 306–9, 344, 355, 383; responsiveness 32, 280, 286, 297–9, 303; sensitivity 280, 286, 289, 
298–300, 302–4, 309
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) 
279, 304–7, 309–10
intense exercise 5, 172, 178, 192, 199, 238, 
255, 258–9, 264, 410
intermittent exercise 238, 336, 374, 399
internal environment 180–2, 186, 288; 
normal 172; stable 180; unchanging 180
International Olympic Committee (IOC) 
248, 267, 269
interstitial fluid 72, 106, 123–4intracellular fluid 106, 108, 111, 123–4intramuscular triglycerides 170, 249, 261, 
303, 306–7, 309
iodine 105–7, 115, 119–20, 128iron 10, 105–7, 115–17, 121–2, 165, 213, 234, 
252–3, 284, 287–8
iron absorption 107, 116, 262, 290
iron deficiency 12, 106, 115–17, 284, 288
iron tablets 115irritable bowel syndrome 132–3, 155–6, 158isotope 281, 283, 300, 314, 329
Keshan disease 119
ketones (also called ketone bodies) 31–2, 
127, 150, 170, 376, 394
kidney disease 3, 114, 426
kidneys 31–2, 55–6, 85–8, 110, 255–6, 261, 
263, 265, 414–17, 420; and breasts 56; to 
conserve water and electrolytes 415; for excretion 110, 149; and liver 86, 261, 263, 383; and lungs 38
kilo-calories 18, 226, 229kinetic energy 162–4, 185
lactic acid 172, 174, 195, 199, 323, 418
lactose 22, 24–5, 42, 111, 134, 153
large intestine 25, 27, 91–2, 132, 136–9, 141, 
144, 146–8, 153–5, 157
leafy vegetables 99, 109, 258, 272, 288, 319linoleic acid 49, 59lipid metabolism 190–1, 197, 308lipid oxidation 162, 176, 193, 200, 282lipid peroxidation 263lipids 5–12, 17–18, 46–61, 133–4, 143–4, 
168–70, 176, 190–3, 197, 348; breakdown of 199; and carbohydrates 168–9; dietary 51, 54; essential 348; excess 191; in foods 50; and proteins 176, 191; solvent-extractible 348; synthesized 51; temporary storage site for 52; water-insoluble 51

502  Index
lipolysis 56, 195, 197, 199–201, 206, 208, 270, 
274, 289, 291; by activation 274; adipose 
tissue 200, 283; diminished sympathetic stimulation of 291; fat oxidation by augmenting 261; increased 185, 282, 303, 307; level of 199; and oxidation 197; 
process of 405; stimulating in adipose 
tissue and gluconeogenesis 183, 208
lipoproteins 47, 51–2, 59, 71, 80, 91, 101, 
197; high-density 46, 52, 59, 96; particles 52
liquid diets 18, 393liquid formula diets 18, 392–3liver 33–6, 38–9, 41–2, 50–2, 82–6, 149–50, 
157, 190–7, 205–8, 302–5; cancer 41; 
disease 39, 152; enzymes 41; 
gluconeogenesis 206; glucose output 194; and heart 70, 201, 282; and kidneys 86, 261, 263, 383; and muscle cells 33; and muscles 36, 42, 231, 304
liver cells 30–1, 34, 38, 84, 170liver glycerol 177liver glycogen 30, 36, 169–70, 190–3, 195–6, 
207, 235, 237, 253, 282
liver glycogenolysis 172, 191, 196, 283low-calorie diets 233, 392–3low carbohydrate diets 31, 36–7low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) 47, 52, 59, 
82, 96
low-fat diets 15, 385, 394–5, 404low GI foods 34lung disease 3, 426lungs 38, 116, 126, 328–9, 345, 347, 359, 361, 
412, 416
lysine 65, 68–9, 205, 245, 254, 256, 261, 276
macro-nutrients 169, 420
macronutrient supplementation 36, 212, 
235, 394
macronutrients 2, 9–12, 21–43, 46–61, 63–6, 
68–74, 163, 166, 170, 175
magnesium 105–7, 110, 114, 146, 165, 252–3, 
258, 275, 323, 420
malnutrition 2, 12, 41, 114, 218, 322maltodextrins 238–9, 252, 275, 409, 420–2margarine 16, 28, 47, 52–3, 58–60, 79, 82, 
84–5, 88–9, 217
measurements, height and weight 341–2, 345meats 9, 47–8, 68–9, 108–10, 113–15, 213–14, 
223–5, 261–3, 389, 394; and beans 223–5, 241
metabolic disorders 59, 304–5, 309, 377, 400metabolic inflexibility 280, 301, 309metabolic processes 78, 133, 136, 163, 180metabolic tests 208–9metabolism 38–40, 93–9, 179–80, 183, 
190–209, 279–310, 323–5, 327–9, 376–80, 386–7; aerobic 99, 165, 179; and amino acid 95, 98–9, 190, 201, 323; anabolic 296; anaerobic 380; of BCAAs 206; bone mineral 256, 258; cellular 410; glucose 194, 301; and liver 42; measured 281; and nutrition 15, 190–209, 279–310; oxidative 295, 329; regulating 107; in special cases 
281–310; steroid hormone 256, 258; tissue 
183
methionine 65, 69, 99, 118, 197, 205, 261, 
263
Meyerhof, Fritz 172micronutrients 2, 10, 77–80, 82, 84–94, 
96–103, 105–8, 110–29, 293, 297
milk 24, 53, 68–9, 84–6, 94–100, 109–11, 
113–15, 152–3, 213–16, 319–21
milk products 111, 213milk proteins 274mineral supplements 10, 103, 114, 116, 122, 
233–5, 276
minerals 9–12, 16, 18, 105–8, 110–29, 144, 
146, 212–13, 231–4, 349; absorption of 107; calcium and phosphorus 11; dietary 142; general functions of 105, 107; metabolic roles of 106; reactive 107; 
sodium and potassium 148; and vitamins 
10, 28, 78, 81, 121, 232–3, 252, 275, 287, 308; and water 10, 105–8, 110–29; see also trace minerals
‘missing foods’ 314, 316Mitchell, Peter 176mitochondria 2, 7–8, 171–2, 174–6, 179, 
196–8, 200–1, 206, 290–1, 296
molecules 5–8, 22–3, 50, 96–7, 99, 113, 
134–5, 165–6, 174, 197
monosaccharides 21–5, 28, 30, 42, 65, 94, 
134, 166, 239
monounsaturated fatty acids 47, 53, 308, 389mucosal cells 52, 72, 121, 138, 144, 149multivitamins 122, 233, 276, 293muscle cells 27, 30, 33, 116, 197, 255, 257, 
262, 264, 273
muscle contractions 107–9, 111, 113, 139, 
142, 164, 171, 196, 202, 305–6
muscle cramps 108–9, 113, 425–6, 430muscle damage 257, 259, 271muscle fibers 101, 166, 172, 192, 197, 201, 
206, 255, 263, 289; fast-twitch 172, 192, 201, 263; skeletal 101, 206; slow-twitch 192, 197, 201
muscle glucose uptake 239, 305–6muscle glycogen 191–3, 195, 206–7, 237–9, 
241, 260–1, 280, 282–3, 306–7, 309; synthesis 239, 269, 279, 283–4, 296; utilization 192–3, 196, 260–1, 282, 306, 309
muscle mass 229, 232, 240, 262, 265, 267, 
276, 281, 289, 294–5
muscle pain 109, 119muscle protein synthesis 240, 258, 269

Index   503
muscle recovery 257–8, 276
muscle soreness 190, 203, 259, 261, 271
muscle tissue 36, 106, 169, 197, 203, 208, 
263, 271, 358–9, 384
muscle weakness 87, 102, 109–10, 114, 293, 
416
muscles 70–1, 140–2, 171–2, 190–2, 194–7, 
239–40, 263–5, 281–3, 301–2, 304–6; active 197, 205, 424–5, 428; circular 139; diaphragm 361; exercising of 36–7, 179, 191–3, 203, 302, 379; human 257, 269; and liver 36, 42, 231, 304; longitudinal 139; oxidative 291; quadricep 291; respiratory 181; smooth 111, 138, 142, 182; stored 192; strength 233, 262, 266, 268, 280, 287, 
401–2, 416; triceps 335; white glycolytic 
291; working 4, 194, 256, 290, 414, 418, 429
neurotransmitters 40, 95–6, 98, 111, 122, 
163, 182, 186, 206, 208
Newsholme, Eric 259niacin 77–80, 93–6, 102, 136, 165, 186, 287nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) 
96, 136, 163, 165, 174
NIDDM 279, 300–2, 304–7, 309–10; groups 
306; individuals 300; and obesity 300–2, 306–7, 309; patients 304; see also non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
nitric oxide 245–6, 272–3, 425Noble Prize 91non-heme iron 106, 115–16non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus 279, 
300–2, 304–7, 309–10
non-pregnant women 285–7norepinephrine 122, 163, 182–5, 196–7, 261, 
267, 307, 410; and epinephrine 183, 196, 261, 410; plasma 307; speeding up heart rate 182
nutrient absorption 41, 143–4nutrient content claims 213, 228nutrient deficiencies 4, 12, 16–17, 41, 152, 
315, 322, 324
nutrient-dense foods 107, 213, 217, 223, 292, 
388
nutrient density 213, 217, 223, 233, 240nutrient functions 11nutrient intake 58, 80, 219, 222, 289, 315, 
317–21, 337, 392
nutrients 1–3, 8–12, 16–18, 79–81, 144, 
147–52, 213, 217–23, 317–19, 321–4; 
absorbed 132, 148–50, 323, 376; and blood 
418; and body stores 307; of carbohydrates 165; and energy 218; energy-containing 4, 163–4, 166, 170, 185, 221; and energy content 314, 321; energy-yielding 1, 9–10, 12, 18, 30, 56, 96–7, 126; essential 9, 41–2, 78–9, 113, 115, 213, 218, 221, 248, 251; ingested 286, 377; major sources of 318, 337; net energy values for 168; nonessential 2, 50, 213; and oxygen 415; particular 218, 220, 315; and substances 93; water-soluble 149
nutrition 1–3, 5, 17, 229, 389; connection 
1–2; information 2, 4, 13, 16, 247; and metabolism 15, 190–209, 279–310; poor 36, 202–3; recommendations 212, 214, 240; research 16, 247
nutritional products 13, 16–18nutritional status 4, 17, 80, 93, 152, 218, 315, 
322, 348, 356
nutritional supplements 248
obese 297, 300–1, 304, 306, 344–5, 350, 368, 
374, 385–7, 402–3; individuals 268, 309, 
350, 367–9, 380, 384, 386, 390, 396, 402–3; women 268, 368, 387, 395
obesity 2–3, 35, 57–8, 300–2, 306–9, 342, 
344–5, 350–1, 383–7, 402–4; abdominal 300, 303; causes of 386; child’s risk of in adulthood 383; development of 384, 386; epidemic of 22, 58; etiology of 58, 373, 
383–4, 386; and heart disease 47; human 
386; international authority on 384; occurrence of 386; and overweight 3, 345, 385, 387, 402, 404; parental 383; pathogenesis of 176; prevalence of 58, 385, 402; and the relationship to health 350; treating 301
oils 9, 47, 215–18, 223–4, 229, 241, 391, 394; 
coconut 48; cooking 12, 52, 59; fish 49, 85, 
91; olive 57, 308; palm 48; peanut 53; plant 
53, 58; soybean 49, 92, 262; sunflower 89; tropical 48; unsaturated 214; vegetable 9, 28, 47, 49, 53, 79, 88, 91, 217, 233; wheat germ 88
organ meats 53, 55, 93, 95, 99–100, 120, 
272
organs 5–6, 8–9, 71, 86, 88, 136, 138–41, 146, 
148–50, 152; abdominal 425; accessory 
136–7, 157; active 379; digestive 139–41, 
152; gastrointestinal 154; lymph 149; major lipid-producing 52, 59; and tissues 9; vital 31, 56, 70
Ornish, Dean 394osteoporosis 83, 87, 109, 112, 228, 234–5, 
284, 289, 320, 323
overweight 341–2, 344–5, 380, 383, 385, 387, 
390, 394, 396, 400; athletes 428; and 
diabetes 400; individuals 342, 390, 396; 
and obesity 3, 345, 385, 387, 402, 404
oxidation 162–3, 165, 174, 176–8, 190, 
197–202, 207, 301, 307, 327–8; of BCAA by activating catabolic enzymes 258; biological 325; body substrate 283, 327; of carbohydrates and fats 166, 174, 238, 291, 

504  Index
oxidation continued
 296, 301, 326–7; diminished amino acid 
207; fat 198–201, 208, 261, 289, 291, 
295–6, 301, 307–9, 327, 398; and fatty acids 197, 282; glucose 300–1; of L-arginine 272; lipid 162, 176, 193, 200, 282; of long-chain fatty acids 199; of NADH and FADH 176; 
phosphorylation coupling process in 
mitochondria 273; of plasma FFA and muscle triglycerides 198; of protein 328; rates 238, 261; reduction reactions 136; of vitamins 81
oxidation rates 238, 261; of exogenous 
carbohydrate 238; of maltose 238; maximal fat 207
oxidative system 171
oxidizing agents 163, 165
oxygen 5–6, 10, 23–4, 165–6, 172, 174, 178–9, 
192, 323–9, 379
oxygen atoms 6, 24, 165oxygen consumption 179–80, 192, 198, 281, 
325–6, 380, 382; average 402; elevated 380, 403; level of 380; measuring of 324, 326; post-exercise 373, 380, 399, 402–3; predicting 333–4
oxygen delivery 201, 257, 261oxygen kinetics 280, 295oxygen uptake 180, 273, 281, 293, 295, 
328–9, 380, 382, 398, 401
pancreas 30–1, 33–5, 41, 137, 139, 143–4, 
157, 183, 303–4, 376–7; receptors 33; and small intestine 143
pancreatic cancer 41
pancreatic hormones 183
pancreatic juices 143, 145pantothenic acid 77, 79, 93–4, 97, 102, 186parathyroid hormone 86, 111, 113–14, 182, 
274
pedometers 314, 330–2, 338pellagra (dietary deficiency disease) 96phantom foods 314, 316pharyngeal cancer 41
phosphagen system 162–3, 171
phospholipids 46–7, 50–3, 56–7, 59, 88, 97, 
113
phosphorus 11, 73, 105, 107, 113–14, 253, 273phosphorylation 163, 172, 176physical activity (PA) 220–1, 223, 226, 280–1, 
289–92, 331–8, 386–8, 390, 395–6, 402–4; daily 171, 223; decreased 292, 386; guidelines 337, 390; and health 324, 337; 
levels 220–1, 226, 290, 292, 337, 363, 386, 
402; regular 18, 156, 289, 291, 309, 403, 423; and training 229, 280
physical fitness 390, 395, 426placebo 2, 14–15, 18, 102, 233, 250, 259, 
261–2, 268, 272–3plant oils 53, 58plasma 170, 199, 257, 261, 269–70, 307, 418, 
425; catecholamines 196; concentrations 91; CoQ concentration 263; creatine kinase levels 271; glutamine 269; norepinephrine 307; osmolality 422–3; proteins 428; triglycerides 170, 197
plasma glucose 170, 180, 183, 298, 306–7; 
concentration 182, 184, 305; level of 291; stabilizing 286; uptake 306
plasma volume 108, 418, 420, 422–4, 428; 
decreased 418; expanded 422; increased 428–30
polyunsaturated fatty acids 47–8, 53, 59, 389post-exercise meals 236, 241potential energy 59, 163–7, 170, 174, 185, 
201, 379; for biological work 59; and kinetic 185; released 164; stored 164
power athletes 232, 257, 263PowerAde 420pregnancy 3, 85, 93–4, 99, 112, 114, 117–18, 
120–1, 279, 285–8; early 100; and lactation 121, 218; period of 114, 285
pregnancy counteracting the effects of 
de-conditioning 287
pregnant women 55, 116–17, 202–3, 215, 
285–7, 308
“Pritikin Diet” 394processed foods 10, 88, 108–9, 215, 233progesterone 207, 266, 280, 282–3, 286prostate cancer 4, 119protein 4–12, 63–74, 94–102, 165–70, 201–4, 
206–8, 231–6, 239–41, 251–9, 274–6; breakdown 203, 258, 271, 274–5; carrier 
80, 144, 147, 256, 261, 304; catabolism 203, 
206; complementation 63, 68–9; contractile 111, 202, 255; degradation 134, 149, 169, 202, 206, 208, 257, 271, 383; digestion 139, 143–4, 157; foods 68, 73, 218; intake 74, 202, 232, 293; iron-containing 115, 234, 288; metabolism 71, 95, 98, 127, 190, 202, 207, 279, 284; molecules 71, 73, 115, 135, 167–8, 202, 
302–3; plant 68–9, 156, 168, 292; reacting 
to amino acids 134, 166, 201; receptors 84, 182–3, 186, 384; structure 63, 65, 67, 115, 135, 203; supplements 4, 232, 247; synthesis 7, 68, 202–4, 206–8, 239–40, 256–8, 264–5, 269, 271, 274–5; tissue 73, 204, 206, 255
proteins 5–12, 51–2, 59, 63–6, 68–74, 78–80, 
151–2, 165–70, 201–4, 254–7; and amino 
acids 201; blood 72, 80; complementary 
63, 68–9, 74; dietary 10, 168, 202, 204; for energy 30–1; excess 10, 52, 59, 73, 127, 202; functional 66; glucose transporter 305; high-quality 68–9; lean 284, 292; oxygen-carrying 284; soy 229, 275; 

Index   505
specialized 152; structural 70; synthesizing 
muscle 232, 284; transport 71–3, 80, 82, 
107, 117; uncoupling 162–3, 176, 384; vegetable 117; and vitamins 10
provitamins 78, 80, 82
questionnaires 42, 317, 319–20, 336, 338, 
396
Randle cycle 200, 208
rate of heat dissipation 335, 412rate of heat production 324, 409–10recommended dietary allowances (RDA) 
68–9, 84–5, 91–4, 96–7, 99–101, 112–14, 119–20, 218–20, 222, 232
red blood cells 9–10, 30, 71–2, 89, 91, 93, 99, 
106, 116–17, 172
Redox 163, 165research 15, 18, 251–2, 255, 266, 268–71, 
273–4, 302–3, 305, 384; design 245, 249; groups 199, 264, 268, 283–4, 418; outcomes 250–1; protocols 13, 254; recent 201, 259, 385; settings 218, 358
research studies 15–16, 18, 247, 250–1, 417
respiratory chain 163, 165, 176, 263
respiratory exchange ratio 199, 209, 279–81, 
293, 295, 314, 328–9, 338, 382, 398
respiratory gas exchange 324–5respiratory quotient (RQ) 301, 314, 327–9, 
337
resting energy expenditure (REE) 336, 379, 
384, 387, 401, 403
resting metabolic rate (RMR) 176, 377–9, 
388, 403
riboflavin 77–80, 93–7, 102, 165, 287; 
amount of 94; coenzyme forms of 94; deficiency 96; and niacin 80, 136; and vitamins 79
salt 108, 120, 125, 214–16, 223, 234, 285, 292, 
425, 430; intake 127, 425, 430; iodized 120; loss 234
saturated fat 39, 43, 47, 57–9, 61, 214, 217, 
226–9, 232, 285; and cholesterol 58, 228–9; intake 61, 308
saturated fatty acids 47–50, 53, 55, 389sex hormones 57, 183, 279, 282–3Sheldon, William 352skin 28–9, 53, 56, 78–9, 85–8, 126–7, 366, 
368–9, 411–14, 425–9; cellulite 347; changes 347; cooling 413; dry 393, 425; 
flushed 415, 425; irritations 98, 102; 
lesions 99; pigmentation 88; rashes 118, 322; surface 411, 413–14, 429; temperatures 411, 413–14, 428; vasodilatation 335; vasodilation 424, 429
skinfolds 363–4, 366, 368; converting to body 
fatness 364; diagonal 364; measurements 341, 345, 363–6, 368–9; sites 363–4, 366; technique 345, 367–9; thickness 262, 351, 363–4, 366
sodium 6–7, 105–8, 110, 123, 125–8, 215–17, 
226–8, 414, 416, 420–3; benzoate 186; and chloride 105, 107–8, 110–11, 123, 128, 
253; high 108, 110; intake 108, 217; nitrate 
272; and potassium 123, 223; retention 420
sodium bicarbonate 7sodium chloride 107, 123, 125, 389sodium hydroxide 7soft drinks 24, 28, 109, 113, 127, 308, 318, 
385, 389; regular 29, 285; sugar-sweetened 32, 239
soluble fibers 22, 26–7, 35somatotypes 352–4sports 4, 16, 212–13, 231, 248, 350–2, 354–7, 
413, 416, 421–3; anaerobic 154; competitive 380; endurance 108, 284, 353; events 250, 353–4, 369; food industry 245, 251, 275; high-intensity 422
sports bars 239, 245, 251–2, 275sports drinks 155, 238, 241, 245, 252–4, 275, 
420, 430
sports nutrition 4, 231; professionals 5; 
recommendations 235; studies 15; supplements 248
sports performance 15, 17, 21, 36, 40, 254, 
341, 348, 350–1, 353
sports supplements 120, 245–8, 254starches 9, 22, 24–6, 32, 42, 64, 134, 139, 141, 
166
steady-state exercise 199, 326–7, 380, 
399–400
steroid hormones 96–7, 282stomach 38–9, 41, 108–9, 132, 136–7, 139, 
141–6, 153–4, 157–8, 375; contents 38, 142; and small intestine 148, 150, 254, 307, 375; wall 38, 142–3, 145
substrate metabolism 279–80, 286substrate oxidation 327
sucrose 22, 24–5, 42, 134, 238–9, 252, 275, 
420
sugars 9, 23–4, 26, 28–9, 35–6, 213–17, 223, 
226–8, 292–3, 308; and amino acids 149; 
cane 24; five-carbon 23; four-carbon 23; fruit 24; glucose 24; malt 24; maple 24; seven-carbon 23; table 9, 12, 24, 27, 42; three-carbon 23
sweat glands 127, 413, 427
symptoms 79, 91, 93, 95–102, 117–21, 123, 
152–6, 322, 415–17, 424–6; of abdominal 
bloating 155; of abdominal pain 153; of anemia 117; of chromium deficiency 121; clinical 240; of dehydration 415; of electrolytes deficiency 108; gastrointestinal 418; of Keshan disease 119; of lactose 

506  Index
symptoms continued
 intolerance 153; of malnutrition 322; of 
mild lactose intolerance 153; neurological 
99–100, 425; of osteomalacia 87; psychiatric 156; reversible 84; of selenium deficiency 119; toxicity 82–3; of ulcers 153; of vitamin B12 deficiency 100; of zinc 
deficiency 118
syndromes 117, 234, 259; burning feet 97; 
irritable bowel 132–3, 155–6, 158; 
metabolic 355
tablets 103, 155, 260testosterone 57, 206–8, 256, 258, 265–7, 280, 
282; and androstenedione 265; changes in measures of 258; and estrogen 282; levels 
17, 250, 258, 267; levels of 267; male sex 
hormone 247; measures of 258
thermal balance 411–12, 414, 427, 429–30thermoregulation 56, 182, 270, 408–9, 411, 
418, 427, 430; effective 423; and fluid balance 408–31
thiamin 77–81, 93–7, 102, 115, 233, 287thyroid hormones 107, 119–20, 128, 379tissue beds 301, 328, 337
total energy expenditure 176, 199, 281, 290, 
292, 296, 386, 395, 398–9, 402–4; in 
children 296; and fat utilization 398
trace minerals 105–6, 115, 117–18, 120, 128, 
256, 262; in food 106; and the importance to humans 115; intracellular 117; major 115
trans-fatty acids 47, 49–50, 58transport proteins 71–3, 80, 82, 107, 117
under-nutrition 2, 12, 218, 240
unsaturated fatty acids 47–9, 53, 90, 101urine 31–2, 86, 110, 112, 114, 118, 127, 
322–4, 328–9, 419
vastus lateralis 280–3, 296vegetables 9, 22, 24–9, 80–1, 108–10, 168, 
213–17, 223–5, 389–91, 393–4; cooked 99, 224, 288; fresh 308; frozen 80; and fruits 24, 28, 80–1, 98, 102, 108, 214, 216, 
223, 229; and grains 9, 232; green 82, 88, 
91, 94, 109, 111, 115, 214; leafy 99, 109, 258, 272, 288, 319; and legumes/beans 215; orange 216, 225; starchy 231; yellow 9, 82
very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL) 52, 59, 
82, 88
Visser, M. 399Vitamin A 82
Vitamin B 293, 297, 420
Vitamin B1 77–81, 93–7, 102, 115, 233, 287; 
see also Thiamin
Vitamin B2 77–80, 93–7, 102, 148, 165, 287; 
see also riboflavinVitamin B3 77, 96, 102, 165, 186; see also 
niacin
Vitamin B5 77, 97, 102, 186; see also 
pantothenic acid
Vitamin B6 77–9, 93, 95–9, 98, 102, 152, 186, 
287, 323
Vitamin B7 77–9, 93–5, 97, 102, 115; see also 
biotin
Vitamin B12 12, 77–8, 80, 82, 93, 95, 99–101, 
152, 287, 290
Vitamin C 101, 227Vitamin D 85, 292Vitamin D2 85Vitamin E 88Vitamin K 91–2, 148vitamins 9–12, 17–18, 77–94, 96–103, 106–7, 
111–14, 119, 121–2, 232–3, 323; active 80, 107; and amino acids 109; antioxidant 90; dietary 85, 87, 91; excretion of 82; and mineral supplements 10, 28, 78, 81, 121, 232–3, 252, 275, 287, 308; and minerals 10, 28, 78, 81, 121, 212, 232–3, 252, 275, 287; nitrogen-containing 97; and phytochemicals 150; pre-formed 82, 103; and sunshine 85; supplements 99, 103, 
233, 419; toxicity 77–9
Vivarin tablets 260
voluntary dehydration 408, 416–17; see also 
dehydration
vomiting 108–10, 142, 153, 155, 356, 415–16, 
418, 425–6
water balance 109, 123, 414–15water, density of 358, 360
water intoxication 416, 422
water loss 127, 234, 393–4, 414–16water molecules 6, 72, 126, 134, 177, 412water movement 105, 124, 359
water retention 264, 420
water-soluble vitamins 77, 79–80, 82, 93–5, 
102
weighing 316, 358; hydro-static 369; 
hydrostatic 341, 344, 355, 358–62, 364, 366, 369; males 378; non-smokers 342; 
underwater 349, 359–60; women 287
weight 287–90, 322, 341–4, 346, 353–6, 368, 
374, 378, 387–90, 392–6; classes 351, 355; 
current 226, 322, 356; gain 231, 352, 393; healthy body 35, 89, 213–15, 217, 220, 377, 387; long-term control 396–7; low body 230, 233–4; maintenance 36, 384, 387, 390; management program 274, 388, 390, 395; total body 6, 323, 351; see also  
body weight
weight control 303, 373–90, 392–6, 398–405
weight gain 112, 213, 220, 231–2, 376–7, 385, 
387, 390, 392, 394
weight–height tables 341–4, 355, 368

Index   507
weight loss 35–6, 267–8, 270, 377, 383–4, 
387–8, 390, 392–7, 399–400, 402–4; diet 4, 
32, 202–3, 387–9, 393–4; enthusiasts 35; guidelines 373, 387; and muscle gain 247; plans 388, 390, 392; products 248, 259, 274, 426; programs 249, 387, 399; 
supplements 18, 257, 270, 426
weight management 222, 373, 380, 387, 389, 
392–3, 399, 402–3, 405
weight measurements 341–2, 345
whey protein 274–5wholegrains 22, 27–8, 93–5, 109–10, 215–16, 284–5, 292–3, 297, 389–90, 393–4; see also grains
women 91–4, 116, 280–5, 323, 342–5, 347, 
377–8, 381–2, 427, 430; adult 127, 129; of child-bearing age 116, 288; healthy 283; non-pregnant 285–7; obese 268, 368, 387, 395; 
older 113, 284; postmenopausal 207, 258; 
pregnant 55, 116–17, 202–3, 215, 285–7, 308
zinc 103, 105, 107, 115, 117–18, 121, 252, 
262, 287, 293; and copper 121; deficiencies 117–18; and iron absorption 262