CONTENTS
List	of	figures,	tables	and	boxes
Contributors
Abbreviations
Introduction
Part	1.	The	science	of	nutrition	and	sport
1.	Introduction	to	sport	and	exercise
Kane	Middleton,	Andrew	Govus,	Anthea	Clarke	and	Adrienne	Forsyth
2.	Energy	for	sport	and	exercise
Matthew	Cooke	and	Sam	S.X.	Wu
3.	Digestion	and	absorption	of	macronutrients	in	sport	and	exercise
Annie-Claude	M.	Lassemillante	and	Sam	S.X.	Wu
4.	Macronutrients
Evangeline	Mantzioris
5.	Micronutrients	and	antioxidants
Gina	Trakman
6.	Translating	nutrition:	From	nutrients	to	foods
Adrienne	Forsyth
7.	Dietary	assessment
Yasmine	C.	Probst
8.	Introduction	to	diet	planning
Adrienne	Forsyth	and	Tim	Stewart
Part	2.	Nutrition	for	exercise
9.	Macronutrient	periodisation
Louise	M.	Burke
10.	Exercise	nutrition

Regina	Belski
11.	Hydration
Ben	Desbrow	and	Christopher	Irwin
12.	Sports	supplements
Michael	Leveritt
13.	Changing	body	composition	and	anthropometry
Patria	Hume
Part	3.	Applied	sports	nutrition
14.	Endurance	sports
Gregory	Cox
15.	Strength	and	power	athletes
Gary	Slater	and	Lachlan	Mitchell
16.	Team	sport	athletes
Stephen	J.	Keenan	and	Brooke	Devlin
17.	Weight	category	and	aesthetic	sport	athletes
Regina	Belski
18.	Young	athletes
Helen	O’Connor	and	Bronwen	Lundy
19.	Masters	athletes
Janelle	Gifford	and	Helen	O’Connor
20.	Paralympic	athletes
Michelle	Minehan	and	Elizabeth	Broad
21.	Travelling	athletes
Shona	L.	Halson,	Georgia	Romyn	and	Michelle	Cort
22.	Environmental	and	climate	considerations	for	athletes
Alan	McCubbin
23.	Gastrointestinal	disturbances	in	athletes
Dana	M.	Lis	and	Stephanie	K.	Gaskell
24.	Nutrition	support	for	injury	management	and	rehabilitation
Rebekah	Alcock	and	Greg	Shaw
25.	Cultural	perspectives
Frankie	Pui	Lam	Siu	and	Evangeline	Mantzioris
26.	Working	with	athletes
Anthony	Meade
Glossary

Index

LIST	OF	FIGURES,	TABLES	AND	BOXES
TABLES
Table	1.1.	Categories	of	sport
Table	1.2.	Advantages	and	disadvantages	of	measuring	exercise	intensity	using
heart	rate	monitoring
Table	1.3.	The	Borg	6–20	scale	of	perceived	exertion
Table	1.4.	The	Foster	Category	Ratio	scale
Table	1.5.	Stratification	of	exercise	intensity	using	various	physiological	and
perceptual	methods	according	to	the	American	College	of	Sports
Medicine	(ACSM)
Table	1.6.	Typical	values	for	selected	cardiorespiratory	parameters	during	rest,
submaximal	and	maximal	exercise	for	a	healthy	adult	male
Table	1.7.	A	comparison	of	the	physiological,	neurological	and	biomechanical
properties	of	different	skeletal	muscle	fibre	types
Table	1.8.	Australia’s	Physical	Activity	Guidelines
Table	1.9.	Example	application	of	the	FITT	principle	for	targeted	physiological
adaptation
Table	2.1.	Adaptations	from	aerobic	and	anaerobic	resistance	training
Table	2.2.	Three	reactions	of	the	phosphagen	system
Table	2.3.	Energy	systems	used	to	support	select	sporting	activities
Table	2.4.	Energy	produced	per	litre	of	O
2
	when	metabolising	different
macronutrients
Table	2.5.	Maximal	tests	of	aerobic	capacity	and	energy	expenditure
Table	3.1.	Action	of	digestive	enzymes	and	their	target	nutrients
Table	3.2.	Hormonal	control	of	digestion—selected	hormones
Table	4.1.	Recommendations	for	the	intake	of	the	essential	fatty	acids
Table	5.1.	Vitamin	D	status	based	on	serum	25(OH)D	(nmol/L)	levels
Table	5.2.	Summary	of	functional	roles	of	micronutrients	related	to	athletic
performance
Table	6.1.	Food	sources	of	complementary	proteins
Table	6.2.	Good	food	sources	of	macronutrients	for	athletes

Table	6.3.	Good	food	sources	of	select	micronutrients	for	athletes
Table	6.4.	Nutrient	composition	of	foods	commonly	consumed	by	athletes
Table	7.1.	Summary	of	common	dietary	assessment	methods
Table	9.1.	Examples	of	themes	in	which	nutrients	are	periodised	to	enhance
performance
Table	9.2.	Dietary	strategies	that	achieve	specific	goals	with	carbohydrate
availability
Table	11.1.	Summary	of	commonly	used	hydration	assessment	techniques
Table	11.2.	Summary	of	fluid	recommendations	prior	to,	during	and	following
exercise	to	optimise	performance
Table	11.3.	Summary	of	fluid	retention	from	commonly	consumed	beverages
when	consumed	without	food
Table	11.4.	Studies	investigating	the	interaction	of	food	on	rehydration
Table	14.1.	Daily	carbohydrate	intake	recommendations	for	endurance	athletes
Table	14.2.	Components	in	food	that	affect	bioavailability	of	iron
Table	14.3.	Carbohydrate	intake	recommendations	for	endurance	athletes	during
exercise
Table	17.1.	Weight	categories	for	selected	sports	(Australia	and	New	Zealand)
Table	20.1.	Impairments	in	Paralympic	sports
Table	20.2.	Sports	contested	at	Paralympic	Games
Table	21.1.	An	example	of	a	travel	nutrition	risk	management	audit
Table	23.1.	Dietary	management	tools	to	prevent	gastrointestinal	symptoms
Table	24.1.	Overview	of	rehabilitation	and	nutrition	planning	for	the	injured
athlete
Table	25.1.	Summary	of	healthy	food	options	in	Asian	countries
Table	25.2.	Summary	of	healthy	food	options	in	Middle	East	countries
FIGURES
Figure	1.1.	Endurance–power	continuum	of	sport
Figure	1.2.	Levels	of	sports	participation
Figure	1.3.	The	relationship	between	oxygen	uptake	(
	O
2
)	and	heart	rate	during
treadmill	running
Figure	1.4.	The	sliding	filament	theory	of	skeletal	muscle	contraction
Figure	1.5.	The	general	adaptive	syndrome	and	its	application	to	periodisation
Figure	1.6.	J-shaped	relationship	between	exercise	and	risk	of	an	upper
respiratory	tract	infection	(URTI)
Figure	2.1.	An	ATP	molecule

Figure	2.2.	Metabolic	pathways	involved	in	ATP	resynthesis
Figure	2.3.	Aerobic	metabolism	pathway	for	macronutrients
Figure	2.4.	Indirect	calorimetry	using	a	mouthpiece	connected	to	a	metabolic
cart
Figure	3.1.	Components	of	the	digestive	tract	and	accessory	organs
Figure	3.2.	The	intestinal	folds	and	villi:	important	anatomical	features	that
increase	the	surface	area	of	the	small	intestine
Figure	4.1.	Chemical	structure	of	amino	acids
Figure	4.2.	Structural	relationship	of	some	fatty	acids
Figure	4.3.	Chemical	structure	of	carbohydrates
Figure	5.1.	Food	sources	of	micronutrients
Figure	5.2.	Stages	of	iron	deficiency
Figure	6.1.	Australian	Guide	to	Healthy	Eating
Figure	9.1.	Example	of	a	yearly	training	plan	for	a	team	sport	(football)	with	a
weekly	match	fixture
Figure	9.2.	Example	of	a	yearly	training	plan	for	an	individual	sport	(swimming)
with	a	double	peak
Figure	14.1.	Fluid	intake	advice
Figure	22.1.	Effect	of	heat	(<25°C	compared	to	>25°C)	for	running	events	in
IAAF	World	Championship	events	held	between	1999	and	2011
Figure	22.2.	Effect	of	cold	water	and	ice	slushie	ingestion	on	rectal	temperature:
(a)	30	minutes	after	commencing	consumption;	(b)	following	a	30-minute
warm-up	in	preparation	for	competition
Figure	22.3.	Athletes	with	extra	fluid	storage	at	the	Marathon	des	Sables,
Morocco
Figure	23.1.	Carbohydrate	oxidation	rates	from	different	carbohydrate	blends
BOXES
Box	2.1.	Did	you	know?	Aerobic	vs	anaerobic	glycolysis
Box	2.2.	Estimating	daily	energy	requirements
Box	4.1.	Calculating	energy	from	macronutrients	in	food
Box	4.2.	Nutrient	Reference	Values	(NRVs)
Box	6.1.	Australian	Dietary	Guidelines
Box	6.2.	New	Zealand	Eating	and	Body	Weight	Statements
Box	6.3.	A	one-day	eating	plan
Box	7.1.	National	Nutrition	and	Physical	Activity	Survey	2011–13
Box	8.1.	Janice’s	baseline	physiological	requirements

Box	8.2.	Janice’s	nutrition	plan
Box	8.3.	Janice’s	nutrition	log
Box	8.4.	Case	studies
Box	9.1.	Exercise	economy
Box	10.1.	Examples	of	suitable	pre-exercise	meals/snacks
Box	10.2.	Snack/meal	options	for	after	exercise
Box	14.1.	Example	meal	plan	for	an	elite	female	triathlete
Box	14.2.	How	much	glycogen	do	endurance	athletes	use?
Box	14.3.	Carbohydrate	loading	practice	considerations
Box	14.4.	Examples	of	pre-race	meals
Box	14.5.	Carbohydrate	food	and	fluid	suggestions	for	endurance	racing
Box	17.1.	Examples	of	advice	for	weight	category	athletes
Box	18.1.	Consequences	of	RED-S
Box	18.2.	Questions	to	consider	if	RED-S	is	suspected
Box	21.1.	Strategies	to	minimise	travel	fatigue
Box	21.2.	Strategies	to	minimise	the	effects	of	jet	lag
Box	21.3.	Strategies	for	a	good	night’s	sleep
Box	25.1.	How	do	Thai	curries	differ	from	other	Asian	curries?
Box	26.1.	Tips	for	sports	dietitians	starting	out	in	a	new	team

CONTRIBUTORS
EDITORS
Regina	Belski
Associate	Professor	Regina	Belski	is	an	Advanced	Sports	Dietitian,	Advanced
Accredited	Practising	Dietitian	and	founding	course	director	of	Dietetics	at
Swinburne	University	of	Technology.	Regina	has	worked	as	a	sports	dietitian	for
over	a	decade	with	athletes	from	Olympic	level	through	to	‘weekend	warriors’.
She	is	also	a	passionate	researcher	in	sports	nutrition,	working	on	building	the
evidence	base	for	the	efficacy	of	sports	dietitians,	having	recently	led	the	team
who	developed	and	published	the	Nutrition	for	Sport	Knowledge	Questionnaire
(NSKQ).	Regina’s	contribution	to	nutrition	education	and	teaching	excellence
has	been	further	recognised	by	a	National	Citation	for	Outstanding	Contribution
to	Student	Learning	from	the	Australian	Government	Office	of	Learning	and
Teaching.
Adrienne	Forsyth
Dr	Adrienne	Forsyth	is	a	senior	lecturer	in	the	School	of	Allied	Health	at	La
Trobe	University,	where	she	coordinates	the	Bachelor	of	Human	Nutrition	and
leads	sports	nutrition	teaching	and	research.	Adrienne	is	an	Advanced	Sports
Dietitian	and	Accredited	Exercise	Physiologist	with	research	interests	spanning
sports	and	clinical	nutrition,	community	health	and	education.	She	is	an	award-
winning	educator	with	a	focus	on	creating	engaging	learning	experiences	to
cultivate	work-ready	graduates.
Evangeline	Mantzioris
Dr	Evangeline	Mantzioris	is	an	Accredited	Practising	Dietitian	and	an

Accredited	Sports	Dietitian.	With	over	25	years’	practice	in	dietetics,	she	has
experience	in	clinical	dietetics,	clinical	teaching	and	private	practice.	She	is	now
Program	Director	of	the	Nutrition	and	Food	Science	Degree	at	the	University	of
South	Australia,	where	she	has	taught	many	courses	in	nutrition,	including	sports
nutrition.	She	is	also	on	the	editorial	board	of	the	journal	
Nutrition	and	Dietetics
.
AUTHORS
Rebekah	Alcock
Rebekah	Alcock	is	an	Accredited	Practicing	Dietitian	and	Accredited	Sports
Dietitian	who	is	in	her	final	year	as	a	PhD	student	with	the	Australian	Catholic
University.	Rebekah	is	also	currently	embedded	at	the	Australian	Institute	of
Sport	as	a	PhD	scholar.	The	topic	of	her	doctorate	is	nutrition	support	for
connective	tissues	in	athletes,	and	she	has	a	keen	interest	in	nutrition	support	for
rehabilitation	from	injury.	Rebekah	also	currently	works	as	the	Melbourne
Rebels	Performance	Dietitian.
Elizabeth	Broad
Dr	Liz	Broad	has	been	Senior	Sports	Dietitian,	US	Paralympics	at	the	US
Olympic	Committee,	since	August	2013	and	has	worked	at	two	Olympic	Games
and	four	Paralympic	Games	(London	with	Team	Australia,	and	Sochi,	Rio	and
PyeongChang	with	Team	USA).	Liz	has	been	a	sports	dietitian	for	25	years	and
is	a	Fellow	of	Sports	Dietitians	Australia,	working	with	a	wide	range	of	sports	in
Australia,	Scotland	and	the	USA	from	development	through	to	professional	and
elite	Olympic	and	Paralympic	athletes.	Liz	is	also	a	Level	3	anthropometrist	and
has	contributed	to	several	book	chapters	and	research	articles,	including	being
editor	of	
Sports	Nutrition	for	Paralympic	Athletes
.
Louise	M.	Burke,	OAM
Professor	Louise	Burke,	OAM,	was	the	inaugural	Head	of	Sports	Nutrition	at	the
Australian	Institute	of	Sport,	leading	the	team	for	almost	three	decades.	She
remains	as	Chief	of	Nutrition	Strategy	at	the	AIS	and	holds	a	Chair	in	Sports
Nutrition	at	the	Mary	MacKillop	Institute	for	Health	Research	at	the	Australian

Nutrition	at	the	Mary	MacKillop	Institute	for	Health	Research	at	the	Australian
Catholic	University.	She	has	over	300	peer-reviewed	papers	and	book	chapters,
as	well	as	20	books.	Her	primary	research	areas	include	nutritional	periodisation
—fat	adaptation,	fluid	needs	for	optimal	performance,	carbohydrate	metabolism
and	performance	of	exercise,	and	performance	supplements.	Louise	is	a	director
of	the	IOC	Diploma	in	Sports	Nutrition.
Anthea	Clarke
Dr	Anthea	Clarke	is	a	lecturer	in	the	School	of	Allied	Health	at	La	Trobe
University.	Anthea	is	accredited	as	both	a	sports	scientist	and	exercise	scientist
with	Exercise	and	
Sports	Science	Australia.	Anthea	teaches	in	a	variety	of	sport
and	exercise	science	subdisciplines,	including	sport	and	exercise	physiology,
sports	analytics	and	performance	analysis.	Her	research	interests	are	in	the	areas
of	applied	physiology	and	performance	analysis	in	team	sports,	with	a	focus	on
the	female	athlete.
Matthew	Cooke
Dr	Matthew	Cooke	is	a	new	senior	lecturer	at	Swinburne	University.	Matthew
has	co-authored	three	book	chapters	and	published	over	35	papers	and	60
abstracts	in	the	area	of	exercise	training	and	nutrition	interventions	in	healthy,
diseased	and	older	populations.	Matthew’s	current	work	focuses	on
nutrigenomics	and	the	manipulation	of	energy	balance	in	the	understanding,
prevention	and	treatment	of	lifestyle-related	diseases.
Michelle	Cort
Michelle	Cort	is	an	Advanced	Sports	Dietitian	who	currently	works	as	the	lead
sports	performance	dietitian	for	Cricket	Australia.	Michelle’s	career	has
involved	working	within	professional	team	sports	and	organisations	as	part	of
their	high-performance	units.	She	has	worked	with	several	Australian	Football
League	(AFL),	National	Rugby	League	(NRL)	and	Super	Rugby	teams.
Michelle	also	spent	five	years	working	at	the	AIS	and	attended	the	2016
Olympics	as	part	of	the	Australian	sailing	team	support	staff.	Michelle	has	been
a	member	of	the	AFL	Anti-Doping	Advisory	Group	and	is	a	sessional	lecturer	in
sports	nutrition	at	various	universities.

Gregory	Cox
Dr	Gregory	Cox	is	an	Associate	Professor	at	Bond	University	having	worked	at
the	Australian	Institute	of	Sport	for	20	years.	He	has	extensive	experience	in
providing	performance	nutrition	support	to	athletes	in	numerous	sports	and	is	the
Nutrition	Lead	for	Triathlon	Australia.	Greg	has	attended	three	Olympics	and
was	Nutrition	Lead	for	the	Australian	Olympic	Team	at	Rio	2016.	He	has
published	numerous	peer-reviewed	journal	articles,	book	chapters	and	lay
publications.	Greg	is	curious	about	athlete’s	nutrition	habits	and	behaviours,
their	iron	status,	and	dietary	manipulations	that	enhance	endurance	exercise.	He
is	a	Fellow	of	Sports	Dietitians	Australia	and	continues	to	be	competitive	in
endurance	sports,	having	held	both	world	and	Australian	titles	in	triathlon	and
surf	lifesaving.
Ben	Desbrow
Associate	Professor	Ben	Desbrow	is	the	program	convenor	of	the	Bachelor	of
Nutrition	and	Dietetics	(Hon)	program	at	Griffith	University	on	the	Gold	Coast.
Following	a	decade	of	work	as	a	clinical	dietitian,	Ben	was	awarded	the	first
Nestlé	Fellowship	in	Sports	Nutrition	at	the	AIS.	Ben	is	an	Advanced	Sports
Dietitian	and	active	researcher	in	the	areas	of	applied	sports	and	clinical
nutrition.
Brooke	Devlin
Dr	Brooke	Devlin	is	a	postdoctoral	researcher	and	the	research	dietitian	within
the	Exercise	and	Nutrition	Research	Program	in	the	Mary	MacKillop	Institute
for	Health	Research	at	the	Australian	Catholic	University.	Brooke	completed	her
PhD	at	LaTrobe	University	in	2016.	She	is	an	Accredited	Practising	Dietitian,
Accredited	Sports	Dietitian	and	an	Accredited	Exercise	Scientist.	Her	current
research	interests	include	a	range	of	exercise	and	nutrition	interventions	for
optimal	blood	glucose	control.
Stephanie	K.	Gaskell
Steph	Gaskell	is	an	Advanced	Sports	Dietitian	and	former	national	competitive
ultra-endurance	runner	who	has	worked	in	gastrointestinal	nutrition	private

practice	for	over	a	decade	and	is	currently	studying	for	her	honours	degree	in	the
area	of	gastrointestinal	sports	nutrition.	Steph	works	with	recreational,	high-level
and	elite-level	athletes,	including	athletes	who	have	represented	Australia	in	the
Olympics.	She	has	been	an	invited	speaker	to	national	and	international
conferences	in	the	area	of	gastrointestinal	and	sports	nutrition,	written	two	recipe
books,	developed	portion	plates	and	co-authored	a	chapter	in	
Clinical	Sports
Nutrition
,	5th	edn.
Janelle	Gifford
Dr	Janelle	Gifford	is	a	senior	lecturer	in	nutrition	within	the	discipline	of
Exercise	and	Sport	Science,	Faculty	of	Health	Sciences	at	the	University	of
Sydney.	She	is	an	Advanced	Accredited	Practising	Dietitian	and	Advanced
Sports	Dietitian.	Her	current	research	interests	include	sports	nutrition	in	masters
athletes	and	nutrition	literacy.
Andrew	Govus
Dr	Andrew	Govus	is	a	lecturer	in	sport	and	exercise	science	in	the	School	of
Allied	Health	at	La	Trobe	University.	Andrew’s	research	interests	are	exercise-
induced	iron	
deficiency,	altitude	training,	training-load	monitoring	and	applied
statistics	in	sports	science.	In	his	spare	time,	Andrew	enjoys	distance	running,
watching	football,	reading	and	drinking	craft	beer.
Shona	L.	Halson
Dr	Shona	Halson	is	a	senior	physiologist	at	the	AIS,	where	her	role	involves
service	provision,	education	and	scientific	research.	She	has	a	PhD	in	exercise
physiology	and	has	been	involved	in	conducting	research	into	the	areas	of
recovery,	fatigue,	sleep	and	travel.	She	is	an	associate	editor	of	the	
International
Journal	of	Sports	Physiology	and	Performance
.	Shona	was	selected	as	the
Director	of	the	Australian	Olympic	Committee	Recovery	Centre	for	the	2008
Beijing	Olympic	Games,	the	2012	London	Olympic	Games	and	the	2016	Rio	de
Janeiro	Olympic	Games.	She	has	published	numerous	peer-reviewed	articles	and
has	authored	several	book	chapters	on	sleep,	fatigue	and	recovery.
Patria	Hume

Patria	Hume
Patria	Hume	is	Professor	of	Human	Performance	at	Auckland	University	of
Technology,	New	Zealand.	Patria	has	a	PhD	in	sports	injury	biomechanics,	and
an	MSc	(Hons)	and	BSc	in	exercise	physiology	and	sports	psychology.	Patria
was	the	inaugural	director	of	the	Sports	Performance	Research	Institute	New
Zealand	(SPRINZ)	from	2000	to	2012	and	is	director	of	the	SPRINZ	J.E.
Lindsay	Carter	Kinanthropometry	Clinic	and	Archive.	Patria’s	research	focuses
on	improving	sport	performance	using	sports	biomechanics	and	sports
anthropometry,	and	reducing	sporting	injuries	by	investigating	injury
mechanisms,	injury	prevention	methods	and	using	sports	epidemiology	analyses.
She	received	the	2016	Geoffrey	Dyson	award	from	the	International	Society	for
Biomechanics	in	Sports,	and	the	2016	Auckland	University	of	Technology
Research	Medal.
Christopher	Irwin
Dr	Christopher	Irwin	is	a	nutrition	academic	at	Griffith	University	on	the	Gold
Coast	and	teaches	in	the	undergraduate	nutrition	and	dietetics	program	in	the
areas	of	nutrition	and	food	science	as	well	as	exercise	and	sports	nutrition.	He	is
actively	involved	in	several	areas	of	research,	with	particular	focus	on	hydration
practices	and	the	role	of	fluid	composition	and	food	ingestion	for	rehydration
after	exercise.	Chris	is	an	Accredited	Practising	Dietitian	and	an	associate
member	of	Sports	Dietitians	Australia.
Stephen	Keenan
Stephen	Keenan	is	a	postgraduate	researcher	at	Swinburne	University	of
Technology.	He	is	an	Accredited	Practising	Dietitian	and	Accredited	Sports
Dietitian	and	has	provided	dietetic	services	to	elite	Australian	soccer	players,
working	with	professional	male,	female	and	youth	teams.
Annie-Claude	M.	Lassemillante
Dr	Annie	Lassemillante	is	an	Accredited	Practising	Dietitian	and	lecturer	at
Swinburne	University	of	Technology.	She	brings	together	her	passion	for	food,
understanding	of	human	physiology	and	her	drive	to	help	people	achieve	a
healthier	life	through	evidence-based	strategies.

healthier	life	through	evidence-based	strategies.
Michael	Leveritt
Dr	Michael	Leveritt	is	a	Senior	Lecturer	in	Nutrition	and	Dietetics	at	the
University	of	Queensland.	His	research	and	teaching	activities	focus	on
developing	a	better	understanding	of	how	nutrition	can	positively	enhance
athlete	participation,	wellbeing	and	performance	in	a	variety	of	sport	and
exercise	contexts.	Michael	is	a	passionate	educator,	practitioner	and	researcher
with	over	100	peer-reviewed	research	publications	and	his	career	to	date	has
included	positions	with	the	Australian	Institute	of	Sport	and	the	Queensland
Academy	of	Sport	as	well	as	academic	positions	in	New	Zealand	and	the	United
Kingdom.
Dana	M.	Lis
Dr	Dana	Lis	has	worked	as	a	high-performance	sports	dietitian	for	over	a	decade
and	has	had	the	honour	of	working	with	several	of	Canada’s	top	athletes,	sport
scientists	and	many	professional	athletes	internationally,	expanding	her	focus
from	practical	work	in	the	field	with	athletes	to	receiving	a	doctorate	from	the
University	of	Tasmania	and	postdoctoral	research	at	the	University	of	California,
Davis.	Her	primary	research	areas	include	the	effects	of	gluten-free	diet’s	short-
chain	carbohydrates	(FODMAPs)	on	athletes’	gastrointestinal	health	and
nutrition	strategies	to	improve	connective	tissue	health	and	performance	in
athletes.	With	one	foot	in	research	and	the	other	in	practice,	Dana	continues	to
strive	to	push	the	envelope	of	evidence-influenced	sports	nutrition.
Bronwen	Lundy
Bronwen	Lundy	is	an	Accredited	Practising	Dietitian	and	Advanced	Sports
Dietitian.	She	is	a	senior	sports	dietitian	at	the	AIS	and	the	lead	dietitian	for
Rowing	Australia.	Bronwen	has	an	interest	in	relative	energy	deficiency	in	sport
(RED-S)	and	tools	for	its	identification.
Alan	McCubbin
Alan	McCubbin	is	an	Accredited	Sports	Dietitian	(Advanced)	and	lecturer	in	the
Department	of	Nutrition,	Dietetics	and	Food	at	Monash	University.	He	has

Department	of	Nutrition,	Dietetics	and	Food	at	Monash	University.	He	has
consulted	to	athletes	across	many	sports	over	a	period	of	15	years,	including
athletes	at	both	Summer	and	Winter	Olympics,	and	the	world’s	hottest,	coldest
and	highest	altitude	ultramarathons.	Alan	is	currently	completing	a	PhD	on
sodium	consumption,	sweat	losses	and	the	implications	for	endurance	athletes,
and	has	competed	at	international	level	in	sailing,	and	recreationally	in
endurance	mountain	biking.
Anthony	Meade
Anthony	Meade	is	an	Accredited	Sports	Dietitian	in	Adelaide,	South	Australia.
He	has	worked	in	the	AFL	with	both	Adelaide	teams,	the	AIS	cricket	and	track
cycling	programs	and	since	2006	has	worked	with	A-League	club	Adelaide
United	FC.	He	continues	to	work	in	private	practice	and	takes	pride	in	mentoring
budding	sports	dietitians	and	providing	practical	advice	to	athletes	to	achieve
their	goals.
Kane	Middleton
Dr	Kane	Middleton	is	a	lecturer	in	the	School	of	Allied	Health	at	La	Trobe
University.	Kane	is	a	sports	scientist	who	specialises	in	sport,	exercise	and
occupational	biomechanics.	His	main	research	interests	are	the	enhancement	of
human	performance	and	reduction	of	injury	risk	in	both	sporting	and
occupational	contexts.	Dr	Middleton	has	consulted	for	a	number	of	professional
organisations,	including	the	International	Cricket	Council,	Red	Bull,	Vicon
Motion	Systems	Ltd	and	the	Defence	Science	and	Technology	Group.
Michelle	Minehan
Dr	Michelle	Minehan	is	an	Advanced	Sports	Dietitian	and	Accredited	Practising
Dietitian.	She	has	been	a	dietitian	for	over	20	years	and	worked	at	the	AIS	for
several	
years	where	she	worked	with	a	wide	range	of	elite	athletes.	Michelle	is
currently	an	academic	at	the	University	of	Canberra	where	she	teaches	many
nutrition	units,	including	sports	nutrition.
Lachlan	Mitchell

Dr	Lachlan	Mitchell	is	an	Accredited	Practising	Dietitian	and	exercise	scientist
who	has	worked	with	amateur	and	semi-professional	athletes	both	in	Australia
and	internationally.	His	current	research	at	the	University	of	Sydney	focuses	on
dietary	and	training	practices	of	bodybuilders,	while	he	also	teaches	in	the
undergraduate	and	postgraduate	exercise	physiology	degrees.
Helen	O’Connor
Associate	Professor	Helen	O’Connor	is	a	sports	dietitian	with	extensive	clinical
and	research	experience.	She	is	an	academic	at	the	University	of	Sydney	where
she	teaches	nutrition	to	students	studying	exercise	science.	Helen	is	a	Fellow,
and	was	the	inaugural	president,	of	Sports	Dietitians	Australia.
Yasmine	C.	Probst
Dr	Yasmine	Probst	is	a	senior	lecturer	with	the	School	of	Medicine	at	the
University	of	Wollongong	and	Research	Fellow	at	the	Illawarra	Health	and
Medical	Research	Institute.	She	holds	dual	masters	qualifications	in	dietetics	and
health	informatics,	has	been	recognised	as	a	fellow	of	the	Australasian	College
of	Health	Informatics	and	is	an	Advanced	Accredited	Practising	Dietitian	with
the	Dietitians	Association	of	Australia.	Yasmine	leads	the	virtual
multidisciplinary	Centre	for	Nutrition	Informatics,	has	held	consecutive
NHMRC	funding	2007	to	2016	and	has	served	on	NHMRC	committees	for	food
and	nutrient	policies.	Her	research	focuses	on	nutrition	informatics	targeting
food	composition	and	its	application	to	nutrition	practice	including	development
of	new	food	composition	data	and	analysis	of	national	health	survey	data.
Yasmine	has	published	numerous	book	chapters	and	scientific	journal	articles
and	presented	her	work	at	a	number	of	national	and	international	conferences.
Georgia	Romyn
Georgia	Romyn	is	a	PhD	scholar	in	physiology	and	performance	recovery	at	the
AIS	and	the	School	of	Human,	Health	and	Social	Sciences	at	Central
Queensland	
University.	Her	research	focuses	on	the	impact	of	sleep	and	daytime
napping	on	athletic	and	cognitive	performance,	as	well	as	best-practice	travel
strategies	to	reduce	jet	lag	and	travel	fatigue	in	athletes.	Georgia	is	accredited	as
both	a	sports	scientist	and	exercise	scientist	with	Exercise	and	Sports	Science

Australia.
Greg	Shaw
Greg	Shaw	is	a	senior	sports	dietitian	at	the	AIS	who	has	worked	in	professional
team	sports	for	15	years.	This	involvement	has	led	him	to	investigate	and
develop	nutrition	strategies	to	shorten	rehabilitation	periods	from	major	injuries.
Frankie	Pui	Lam	Siu
Frankie	Siu	is	a	senior	sports	dietitian	at	the	Hong	Kong	Sports	Institute,	where
his	duties	include	individual	nutrition	consultation	(such	as	weight	management,
hydration	strategies,	recovery	nutrition,	training	and	competition	nutrition
strategies	and	the	use	of	nutritional	supplements),	small	group	nutrition
education	for	coaches	and	athletes,	supervising	the	athletes’	dining	hall	and
applied	nutrition	research.	Frankie	also	travels	with	different	sports	teams	to
provide	on-field	nutrition	support	to	ensure	every	athlete	fuels	and	hydrates
optimally	for	training,	competition	and	recovery.
Gary	Slater
Associate	Professor	Gary	Slater	is	an	Advanced	Sports	Dietitian	who	has	been
working	in	elite	sport	since	1996.	He	currently	divides	his	time	between
coordinating	a	masters	degree	in	sports	nutrition	at	the	University	of	the
Sunshine	Coast	and	consultancy	work	within	the	elite	sport	environment.	Gary
has	authored	or	co-authored	103	scholarly	publications,	including	70	peer-
reviewed	scientific	papers	and	14	textbook	chapters.
Tim	Stewart
Tim	Stewart	is	a	lecturer	in	clinical	and	sports	nutrition	in	the	School	of	Allied
Health	at	La	Trobe	University.	Tim	is	an	experienced	sports	and	clinical	dietitian
who	has	worked	in	the	AFL	along	with	elite	individual	endurance	athletes.	Tim
enjoys	competing	in	cross-country	running	and	is	building	an	interest	in	trail
running.

Gina	Trakman
Dr	Gina	Trakman	is	a	sports	dietitian,	lecturer	and	nutrition	researcher.	She
completed	her	PhD	thesis	on	the	nutrition	knowledge	of	elite	and	non-elite
Australian	athletes.	Her	research	interests	include	survey	validation,	sports
nutrition,	dietary	additives	and	the	gut	microbiota.
Sam	S.X.	Wu
Dr	Sam	Wu	is	an	exercise	scientist	and	lecturer	at	Swinburne	University	of
Technology.	His	work	focuses	on	exercise	performance	and	physiology,	in
particular	pacing	within	endurance	events.	His	interests	also	expand	into
improving	health	and	discovering	best	practice	for	individuals	with	exercise.	He
applies	his	research	to	practice,	having	competed	in	various	short	to	long
distance	triathlon	events.

ABBREVIATIONS
AA
arachidonic	acid
ABV
alcohol	by	volume
ADP
adenosine	diphosphate
AFL
Australian	Football	League	(AFL)
AI
acceptable	intake
AIHW
Australian	Institute	of	Health	and	Welfare
AIS
Australian	Institute	of	Sport
ALA
alpha-linolenic	acid
AMDR
acceptable	macronutrient	distribution	range
AMP
adenosine	monophosphate
ATP
adenosine	triphosphate
ATP-PCr
alactacid
AUSNUT
Australian	Nutrient	(databases)
BHI
beverage	hydration	index
BIA
bioelectrical	impedance	analysis
BM
body	mass
BMD
bone	mineral	density
BMI
body	mass	index
BW
body	weight
CCK
cholecystokinin
CHO
carbohydrate
CoA
coenzyme	A
Cr
Creatine
CT
computed	tomography
CTE
chronic	traumatic	encephalopathy
CVD
cardiovascular	disease
DASH
dietary	approaches	to	stop	hypertension
DHA
docosahexaenoic	acid
DVT
deep-vein	thrombosis
DXA
dual	energy	X-ray	absorptiometry

DXA
dual	energy	X-ray	absorptiometry
EA
energy	availability
EAH
exercise-associated	hyponatraemia
EAR
estimated	average	requirements
EER
estimated	energy	requirements
EGCG
epigallocatechin
EPA
eicosapentaenoic	acid
EPOC
excess	post-exercise	oxygen	consumption
ER
endoplasmic	reticulum
ESSA
Exercise	and	Sports	Science	Australia
ETC
electron	transport	chain
FFM
fat-free	mass
FGID
functional	gastrointestinal	disorders
FITT
frequency,	intensity,	time,	and	type
FM
fat	mass
FODMAP
fermentable	oligosaccharides,	disaccharides,
monosaccharides	and	polyols
GFD
gluten-free	diets
GI
glycaemic	index
GL
glycaemic	load
GORD
gastroesophageal	reflux	disorder
GTP
guanosine	triphosphate
Hb
haemoglobin
HBV
high	biological	value
HCl
hydrochloric	acid
HDL-C
high-density	lipoprotein	cholesterol-C
HDL
high-density	lipoprotein
HMB
b-Hydroxy-b-methylbutyrate
HRR
heart	rate	reserve
IBS
irritable	bowel	syndrome
IDA
iron	deficiency	anaemia
IOC
International	Olympic	Committee
IPC
International	Paralympic	Committee
ISAK
International	Society	for	the	Advancement	of
Kinanthropometry
IU
international	units
LA
linoleic	acid

LA
linoleic	acid
LCHF
low-carbohydrate,	high-fat	diet
LDL-C
low-density	lipoprotein	cholesterol-C
LDL
low-density	lipoprotein
LEA
low-energy	availability
LEAF-Q
Low	Energy	Availability	in	Females	questionnaire
MCV
mean	cell	volume
MEOS
microsomal	ethanol-oxidising	system
MRI
magnetic	resonance	imaging
MUFA
monounsaturated	fatty	acids
NHMRC
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council
NRL
National	Rugby	League
NRV
nutrient	reference	values
NSAID
non-steroidal	anti-inflammatory	drugs
NUTTAB
nutrient	tables
OA
osteoarthritis
PAL
physical	activity	level
PCr
phosphocreatine
PEM
protein-energy	malnutrition
Pi
inorganic	phosphate
PUFA
polyunsaturated	fatty	acids
RDI
recommended	dietary	intake
RED-S
relative	energy	deficiency	in	sport
RER
respiratory	exchange	ratio
RM
repetition	maximum
RMR
resting	metabolic	rate
RPE
rating	of	perceived	exertion
SCFA
short-chain	fatty	acids
SCI
spinal	cord	injuries
SF
serum	ferritin
SGLT-1
sodium-glucose	linked	transporter	1
SPRINZ
Sports	Performance	Research	Institute	New	Zealand
TBI
traumatic	brain	injury
TBW
total	body	water
TFA
trans	fatty	acids
TIBC
total	iron	binding	capacity
UL
upper	level	of	intake

UL
upper	level	of	intake
URTI
upper	respiratory	tract	infection
USG
urine	specific	gravity
UTI
urinary	tract	infections
UV
ultraviolet
UVB
ultraviolet	B
VFA
volatile	fatty	acids
WADA
World	Anti-Doping	Agency
WPI
whey	protein	isolate

INTRODUCTION
As	academics	in	nutrition,	dietetics	and	sports	science	teaching	sports	nutrition
to	undergraduate	students,	we	have	struggled	to	find	a	standalone	textbook	on
sports	nutrition	that	is	pitched	at	the	right	level—containing	enough	evidence-
based	scientific	information	to	support	university-level	students,	written	for	an
Australian	and	New	Zealand	context	and	designed	in	a	straightforward	manner
that	makes	it	easy	to	find,	understand	and	apply	information.	We	feel	that	with
this	textbook	we	have	created	a	learning	and	teaching	tool	that	will	support	a
range	of	interests	in	sports	nutrition,	from	recreational	athletes	to	developing
sports	and	nutrition	professionals.	It	will	also	be	a	great	reference	text	for
athletes	and	those	working	with	athletes.
This	book	has	been	developed	in	three	parts.
Part	1:	The	science	of	nutrition	and	sport
The	chapters	contained	in	this	section	will	help	you	to	develop	the	underlying
knowledge	in	physiology,	nutrition	and	assessment	required	to	understand	and
apply	concepts	in	sports	nutrition.	Some	of	these	chapters	may	serve	as	review
or	reference	material	for	students	who	have	completed	previous	study	in
nutrition	and	exercise	physiology.

Part	2:	Nutrition	for	exercise
These	chapters	will	provide	you	with	evidence-based	recommendations	on	what
to	eat	and	when,	and	support	you	in	developing	plans	for	individual	athletes	and
teams.

Part	3:	Applied	sports	nutrition
In	this	section,	you	will	become	familiar	with	the	nutrition	requirements	of
athletes	participating	in	a	range	of	sports,	and	with	the	unique	nutrition	needs	of
athletes	at	different	developmental	stages	and	with	other	special	needs.
The	support	website	for	the	book	provides	additional	resources,	including
further	reading	lists	for	each	chapter,	questions	to	test	your	understanding,	study
questions	and	case	studies.
Before	we	jump	ahead	to	the	main	content	of	the	book,	it	is	important	to
clarify	a	few	important	terms	and	concepts	related	to	sports	nutrition.
Elite	sport	versus	recreational	sport	and	exercise
The	nutrition	demands	of	athletes	will	vary	depending	on	a	range	of	factors,
including	age,	sex,	experience,	training	and	the	sport	itself.	The	demands	of
athletes	participating	
at	an	elite	level	may	or	may	not	differ	from	those	of	an
athlete	participating	at	a	recreational	level	or	exercising	for	fitness.	Elite	athletes
often	have	the	opportunity	to	train	more,	and	will	have	higher	energy	and
nutrition	requirements	due	to	their	training	load	(although	this	is	not	always	the
case;	for	some	elite	athletes,	stringent	requirements	related	to	body	weight,	body
composition	or	image	may	lead	them	to	consume	diets	lower	in	energy).	In
general,	the	elite	athlete	will	be	better	adapted	to	perform	in	their	chosen	sport,
and	may	be	looking	to	nutrition	to	gain	a	slight	edge	on	the	competition.	For
recreational	athletes	and	exercisers,	nutrition	may	play	an	important	role	in
increasing	their	ability	to	train	and	perform	by	reducing	gastrointestinal
discomfort	and	increasing	energy	levels	before,	during	and	after	training.
Throughout	this	textbook,	you	will	be	provided	with	examples	of	how	modifying
dietary	intake	before,	during	and	after	training	or	performance	can	improve	the
comfort,	energy	and	performance	of	athletes	at	all	levels,	as	well	as	promoting	a
healthy	diet	for	long-term	health	benefits.
Sports	nutrition	and	scope	of	practice
There	is	a	range	of	roles	nutrition	professionals	can	play	in	sport.	The	work	that
you	do	and	the	information	and	recommendations	that	you	provide	should	be
guided	by	the	scope	of	practice	of	your	role	and	training.
Completion	of	a	subject	in	sports	nutrition	does	not	make	you	a	sports

Completion	of	a	subject	in	sports	nutrition	does	not	make	you	a	sports
nutrition	professional,	but	it	does	provide	you	with	the	foundational	knowledge
to	undertake	further	study	toward	a	career	in	sports	nutrition,	or	to	work	in	a	role
supporting	other	sports	nutrition	professionals.
If	you	are	studying	sports	or	exercise	science,	you	should	be	guided	by	the
scope	of	practice	guidelines	developed	by	Exercise	and	Sports	Science	Australia
(ESSA).	On	completion	of	an	accredited	course	in	sports	or	exercise	science,
you	will	be	able	to	perform	basic	nutritional	assessments	and	provide	nutrition
advice	in	line	with	national	nutrition	guidelines	such	as	the	Australian	Dietary
Guidelines	and	the	Australian	Guide	to	Healthy	Eating;	depending	on	the	level
of	qualification,	you	may	be	able	to	undertake	sports	nutrition-related	research.
Undertaking	more	advanced	nutrition	assessment,	providing	medical	nutrition
interventions	or	prescribing	nutritional	supplements	are	beyond	the	scope	of
practice	of	exercise	professionals	unless	they	have	completed	relevant	additional
training.
If	you	are	studying	human	nutrition,	you	will	be	able	to	perform	similar
activities	to	those	described	above.	You	may	undertake	basic	nutritional
assessments	and	provide	advice	for	general	health	and	wellbeing	in	line	with
national	nutrition	guidelines.	Individualised	dietary	advice	and	recommendations
related	to	specific	medical	conditions	
should	be	provided	only	by	dietitians	who
have	completed	an	accredited	course	in	dietetics.
Accredited	sports	dietitians	are	the	only	professionals	who	are	accredited	to
practice	in	sports	nutrition	in	Australia.	These	professionals	complete	an
accredited	undergraduate	or	postgraduate	course	in	dietetics,	gain	experience	in
clinical	dietetics,	then	apply	to	Sports	Dietitians	Australia	to	undertake
additional	training	in	sports	nutrition.	After	completing	this	training,	passing	an
exam,	and	acquiring	substantial	experience	related	to	sports	nutrition,	a	dietitian
may	gain	accreditation	as	a	sports	dietitian.	Accredited	sports	dietitians	work	in
roles	supporting	elite	sporting	organisations,	in	private	practice	with	individual
athletes,	or	as	consultants	to	sporting	clubs.	Sports	dietitians	may	be	supported
by	other	dietitians,	nutritionists	and	exercise	or	sports	scientists	in	these	roles.
Sifting	through	the	evidence:	How	to	source	and
interpret	the	literature
This	textbook	will	be	a	great	reference	for	sports	nutrition	information.
However,	there	is	a	lot	of	great	research	taking	place	and	the	evidence	and
recommendations	for	sports	nutrition	are	constantly	evolving.	It	is	likely	that
there	will	be	times	when	you	are	confronted	with	new	ideas	about	food	and

there	will	be	times	when	you	are	confronted	with	new	ideas	about	food	and
nutrition	in	sport.	So,	how	can	you	tell	if	what	you	are	reading	about	is	new
information	based	on	scientific	research,	or	the	latest	fad	being	promoted	by	a
celebrity?	Given	the	implications	for	performance	and	health,	it	is	important	that
you	are	able	to	separate	credible	information	from	popular	anecdotes.
These	days,	we	receive	information	from	a	variety	of	sources—traditional
books,	journals	and	newspapers,	as	well	as	television,	radio,	and	online	and
social	media.	When	assessing	the	credibility	of	new	evidence,	start	by	looking	at
who	has	written	and	published	the	evidence.	Is	the	author	an	expert	in	the	field?
What	other	work	have	they	done,	and	are	they	associated	with	an	education	or
research	institution?	Is	the	work	published	by	a	reputable	journal	or	a
government	website,	or	is	it	reported	in	a	popular	magazine	or	blog?	Popular
media	such	as	television,	radio	and	social	media	can	present	some	credible
information,	but	it	is	best	to	identify	their	source,	and	access	and	assess	the
original	source	of	information	for	credibility.	Sometimes,	book	and	magazine
articles	can	be	written	by	someone	with	great	interest	but	no	qualifications	in
nutrition,	and	may	contain	ideas	that	are	attractive	and	promise	great	things,	but
are	not	based	on	scientific	evidence.	In	addition	to	checking	the	qualifications	of
the	author	and	the	credibility	of	the	publisher,	also	identify	what	evidence	is
used	to	support	any	nutrition	claims.	Are	claims	based	on	quality,	up-to-date
research?	Be	wary	of	claims	made	with	no	supporting	scientific	studies,	or	those
with	only	very	
old	studies	(evidence	in	nutrition	is	constantly	evolving!),	as	well
as	any	claims	made	by	someone	with	a	financial	interest.	Food	and	supplement
companies	can	sometimes	produce	and	report	on	high-quality	research,	but	it	is
in	their	own	financial	interest	to	tell	you	about	findings	that	support	their
products,	so	make	sure	you	also	identify	some	independent	evidence.
So,	where	can	you	go	to	obtain	credible	and	unbiased	information?	The
support	website	has	suggestions	for	additional	reading	with	links	to	books,
journal	articles	and	websites.	The	Sports	Dietitians	Australia	website
(
www.sportsdietitians.com.au/
)	has	a	large	range	of	easy-to-read	sports	nutrition
factsheets	written	by	sports	dietitians	based	on	the	latest	scientific	evidence.	For
those	wanting	to	read	more	original	research,	PubMed
(
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/
)	provides	access	to	a	huge	range	of	research
articles	published	in	high-quality	journals.	Be	sure	to	also	read	journal	articles
with	a	critical	eye,	checking	that	they	have	used	appropriate	methods	and	that
their	conclusions	were	justified	based	on	the	results.
We	trust	that	you	will	find	this	textbook	to	be	a	source	of	reliable	nutrition
information	that	is	easy	to	understand	and	apply	in	sports	settings.

Introduction	to	sport	and	exercise
Kane	Middleton,	Andrew	Govus,	Anthea	Clarke	and
Adrienne	Forsyth
You	may	be	reading	this	book	because	you	are	an	athlete,	you	work	with
athletes,	or	you	would	like	to	work	with	athletes	in	the	future.	To	provide
appropriate	nutrition	advice	to	athletes,	it	is	important	that	you	understand	the
practical	and	physiological	impacts	of	physical	activity,	exercise	and	sport.	This
chapter	will	provide	you	with	an	overview	of	key	concepts	related	to	sport,
exercise	and	performance,	and	outline	the	body’s	responses	and	adaptations	to
exercise.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	compare	and	contrast	physical	activity,	exercise	and	sport
•	describe	different	types	of	sport	and	exercise,	and	relate	these	to	differing
physiological	processes	and	adaptations
•	measure	exercise	performance	and	intensity

•	measure	exercise	performance	and	intensity
•	describe	the	principles	of	exercise	prescription
•	describe	muscle	types	and	actions
•	explain	the	body’s	physiological	response	and	chronic	adaptations	to	exercise
•	outline	how	the	body	recovers	from	exercise.
PHYSICAL	ACTIVITY,	EXERCISE	AND	SPORT
Although	often	used	interchangeably,	there	is	a	distinct	conceptual	difference
between	physical	activity,	exercise	and	sport.	
Physical	activity
	is	any	movement
that	we	perform	that	expends	energy.	The	simplest	categorisation	of	physical
activity	is	based	on	proportioning	activities	in	daily	life—namely,	sleep,	work
and	leisure.	The	energy	expenditure	during	sleep	is	obviously	very	small,
whereas	the	energy	expenditure	during	work	would	depend	on	the	type	of
employment.	A	nurse	who	spends	a	lot	of	time	walking	around	a	hospital	ward
would	expend	much	more	energy	than	an	office	worker	who	spends	the	majority
of	the	work	day	sitting	down.	In	regard	to	leisure	time	physical	activity,	humans
typically	perform	this	incidentally	(such	as	walking	to	the	shops),	in	the
household	(such	as	gardening),	or	during	exercise	and	sport.
Physical	activity
Any	bodily	movement	produced	by	skeletal	muscles	that	results	in	energy	expenditure.
Exercise
Physical	activity	that	is	planned,	structured,	repetitive	and	purposeful	with	the	aim	to	improve	or
maintain	one	or	more	components	of	physical	fitness.
Exercise
	is	a	subcategory	of	physical	activity.	Although	it	still	includes	body
movements	that	result	in	energy	expenditure,	it	is	different	to	physical	activity	in
that	it	is	planned,	structured	and	repetitive.	The	purpose	of	exercise	is	to	improve
or	maintain	components	of	physical	fitness,	including:
•	aerobic	and	anaerobic	capacity	(described	later	in	this	chapter)
•	muscular	endurance,	strength	and	power
•	body	composition	(see	
Chapter	13
)
•	flexibility
•	balance.

•	balance.
Aerobic	capacity
The	ability	of	the	body	to	take	in	and	distribute	oxygen	to	the	working	muscles	during	exercise.
Accredited	Exercise	Scientist
A	specialist	in	the	assessment,	design	and	delivery	of	exercise	and	physical	activity	programs	(Exercise
and	Sports	Science	Australia	2018).
Examples	of	structured	exercise	include	a	running	program	to	promote	fat	loss
and/or	increase	
aerobic	capacity
,	a	conditioning	program	to	increase	muscular
strength	or	a	stretching	program	to	increase	joint	flexibility.	If	we	take	the
example	of	a	conditioning	program,	for	it	to	be	most	effective	it	would	be
planned	before	beginning,	ideally	by	an	
Accredited	Exercise	Scientist
.	The
plan	would	incorporate	purposeful	exercise	and	progress	the	exerciser	through
mental	stages	of	readiness	to	change	(see	
Chapter	8
	for	the	transtheoretical
model	of	change).	The	program	would	be	delivered	in	a	structured,	repetitive
manner,	taking	
into	account	the	concepts	of	periodisation	and	progressive
overload	(this	is	discussed	in	more	detail	later	in	this	chapter	under	
Chronic
Adaptations	to	Exercise
).
It	has	been	difficult	to	develop	a	universally	approved	definition	of	sport.
Currently,	the	most	accepted	definition	is	that	of	the	Global	Association	of
International	Sports	Federations,	which	states	that	the	following	criteria	must	be
met	in	order	for	a	sport	to	become	a	member	of	the	Association	(Global
Association	of	International	Sports	Federations	2012):
•	The	sport	proposed	should	include	an	element	of	competition.
•	The	sport	should	not	rely	on	any	element	of	‘luck’	specifically	integrated	into
the	sport.
•	The	sport	should	not	be	judged	to	pose	an	undue	risk	to	the	health	and	safety	of
its	athletes	or	participants.
•	The	sport	proposed	should	in	no	way	be	harmful	to	any	living	creature.
•	The	sport	should	not	rely	on	equipment	that	is	provided	by	a	single	supplier.
Sport

‘A	human	activity	capable	of	achieving	a	result	requiring	physical	exertion	and/	or	physical	skill	which,
by	its	nature	and	organisation,	is	competitive	and	is	generally	accepted	as	being	a	sport’	(Australian
Sports	Commission	2018).
In	Australia,	the	Australian	Sports	Commission	currently	(at	time	of	print)
recognises	95	national	sporting	organisations.	Their	definition	of	
sport
	focuses
more	on	physical	effort	and	skill	that	includes	a	competitive	element.
TYPES	OF	SPORT
Due	to	the	large	variety	of	sports	in	existence,	the	Global	Association	of
International	Sports	Federations	has	also	developed	categories	of	sports.	These
categories	are	based	on	the	primary	(not	exclusive)	type	of	activities	that	make
up	the	sport.	The	list	of	categories	and	examples	of	sports	in	those	categories	can
be	found	in	
Table	1.1
.	Note	that	many	sports	may	belong	to	multiple	categories.
Table	1.1.	Categories	of	sport
Category
Examples	of	sports
Physical
Football,	Basketball,	Athletics
Mind
Chess,	Draughts,	eSports
Motorised
Formula	One,	Motorcycling
Coordination
Lawn	Bowls,	Billiards,	Shooting
Animal-supported
Horse	Racing,	Equestrian,	Polo

Figure	1.1.	Endurance–power	continuum	of	sport
Primarily	physical	sports	are	by	far	the	most	common	and	best	known,	and	it
could	be	strongly	argued	that	nutrition	is	more	important	in	these	types	of	sports.
Whether	a	sport	is	individual	or	team-based,	the	physical	requirements	of	that
sport	will	lie	somewhere	on	an	endurance–power	continuum	(
Figure	1.1
).	Sports
such	as	marathon	running	and	triathlon	are	on	the	endurance	end	of	the
continuum,	where	repeated	movement	cycles	are	performed	over	a	sustained
period	of	time.	In	contrast,	power	lifting	and	track	and	field	throws	are	on	the
power	end	of	the	continuum,	where	a	single	movement	is	performed	at	high
intensity	and	often	at	high	speed.	To	complicate	this,	sports	often	have	different
requirements	for	the	disciplines	within	the	sport	or	playing	position	within	a
team.	In	track	and	field,	a	100-metre	sprinter	has	a	different	physical
requirement	than	a	10,000-metre	runner.	In	American	Football,	a	defensive
tackle	is	usually	the	biggest	and	strongest	player	on	the	team,	whereas	running
backs	tend	to	be	smaller	but	fast	and	agile.
Aerobic
Exercise	at	an	intensity	that	is	low	enough	to	allow	the	body’s	need	for	oxygen	(to	break	down
macronutrients)	to	be	matched	to	the	oxygen	supply	available.
Anaerobic

Exercise	at	an	intensity	where	the	body’s	demand	for	oxygen	is	greater	than	the	oxygen	supply	available,
therefore	relying	on	anaerobic	metabolism	and	the	production	of	lactate.
Sporting	activities	are	also	sometimes	categorised	as	
aerobic
	or	
anaerobic.
Endurance	sports,	which	are	performed	at	a	somewhat	lower	intensity	over	a
long	period	of	time,	are	predominantly	aerobic,	meaning	that	the	body	is	able	to
breathe	in	enough	oxygen	to	support	metabolic	processes	and	fuel	muscle
activity.	High-energy	bursts	of	activity	in	
power	sports	are	usually	performed	at
such	a	high	intensity	that	athletes	are	unable	to	breathe	in	enough	oxygen	and
rely	on	anaerobic	metabolic	processes	to	fuel	the	muscles.
LEVELS	OF	SPORTS	PARTICIPATION	AND
COMPETITION
Levels	of	sports	participation	can	be	thought	of	as	a	pyramid	(
Figure	1.2
)	that
generally	represents	the	inverse	relationship	between	competition	level	and
participation	rate.	The	foundation	level	of	competitive	sport	most	often	occurs	at
a	young	age,	when	people	are	first	introduced	to	a	sport.	In	Australia	and	New
Zealand,	this	would	typically	occur	during	physical	education	classes.	Sporting
organisations	and	recreation	centres	also	contribute	to	the	foundation	level	by
offering	introductory	programs,	such	as	the	AFL	Auskick	(Australian	football)
or	in2CRICKET	(cricket)	programs	that	focus	on	the	fundamental	motor	skills
of	those	sports.
Once	someone	advances	from	an	introduction	to	a	sport	to	regularly	engaging
with	that	sport,	they	enter	the	participation	level.	As	a	large	number	of	people
are	introduced	to	a	variety	of	sports	at	the	foundation	level,	there	is	an	inevitable
decline	in	numbers	reaching	the	participation	level.	The	engagement	at	this	level
is	generally	recreational	in	nature,	such	as	social	sport;	although	competition	is
present,	
i.e.
	there	is	a	winner	and	a	loser,	the	main	aim	of	participating	is
enjoying	the	activity	itself	rather	than	the	final	outcome.
The	aim	of	competition	changes	from	enjoyment	to	winning	at	the
performance	level.	Whereas	the	skill	level	of	people	at	the	participation	level	is
not	overly	important,	performance	athletes	are	often	selected	in	teams	or	for
competition	based	on,	as	the	name	suggests,	their	performance.	They	will	often
represent	a	club	or	team	in	these	competitions,	which	are	generally	administered
by	official	sporting	organisations	with	standard	rules	and	regulations.
Representative	sport	will	generally	start	in	high	
school	and	continue	through	to
adult	competition.	The	critical	development	period	from	18	to	23	years	of	age

coincides	with	tertiary	education	for	many	high-achieving	athletes.	In	Australia
and	New	Zealand,	the	progress	of	these	athletes	is	supported	by	national	sporting
organisations	and	state-based	academies	and	institutes	of	sport.	This	stage	is
different	around	the	world,	with	a	contrasting	system	in	the	United	States	of
America.	The	United	States	has	established	a	college-based	sports	system,
regulated	by	organisations	such	as	the	National	Collegiate	Athletic	Association,
and	organised	and	funded	by	the	colleges	themselves.
Figure	1.2.	Levels	of	sports	participation
The	peak	of	sports	participation	is	the	elite	level.	This	is	very	similar	to	the
performance	level	but	only	includes	the	very	best	representatives	of	a	sport,
meaning	that	this	level	has	the	fewest	athletes	of	all	the	levels	of	the	sports
participation	pyramid.	The	delineation	of	elite	athletes	from	other	high-
performing	athletes	is	difficult,	but	elite	athletes	often	compete	at	the	national	or
international	level.	Although	the	Olympic	Games	is	still	the	pinnacle	of	elite
amateur	sport	around	the	world,	the	evolution	of	elite	sport	has	coincided	with
growing	professionalism	due	to	the	resources	dedicated	to	preparation,	training
and	competition.	The	large	investments	in	professional	sport	make	winning	‘big
business’	and,	given	that	the	performance	differential	between	athletes	at	the
elite	level	is	very	small,	nutritional	interventions	such	as	supplementation	can
have	a	large	impact	on	performance	and	competition	outcomes	(see	
Chapter	12
for	more	information	on	this	topic).
MONITORING	EXERCISE
Cardiorespiratory	exercise
Whole-body,	dynamic	exercise	that	taxes	predominantly	the	cardiovascular	and	respiratory	systems,	such

Whole-body,	dynamic	exercise	that	taxes	predominantly	the	cardiovascular	and	respiratory	systems,	such
as	running,	cycling	and	swimming.
Resistance	exercise
Exercise	that	predominantly	involves	the	musculoskeletal	system.
Skeletal	muscle
Voluntary	muscle	attached	to	bones	that	move	a	part	of	the	skeleton	when	stimulated	with	a	nerve
impulse.
Biomechanical
Pertaining	to	the	mechanical	nature	of	the	body’s	biological	processes,	such	as	movements	of	the
skeleton	and	muscles.
Exercise	can	be	categorised	into	two	main	types:	
cardiorespiratory	exercise
(involving	the	
cardiovascular
	and	
respiratory	system
)	and	
resistance	exercise
(predominantly	involving	the	
musculoskeletal	system
).	Whereas
cardiorespiratory	exercise	involves	predominantly	whole-body,	dynamic
exercise	involving	a	large	
skeletal	muscle
	mass,	resistance	exercise	aims	to
develop	
physiological
,	
neurological
	and	
biomechanical
	properties	of	skeletal
muscle.	Cardiorespiratory	exercise	is	predominantly	aerobic,	while	resistance
exercise	is	predominantly	anaerobic.
The	intensity	of	cardiorespiratory	and	resistance	exercise	can	be	expressed	in
either	absolute	or	relative	terms.	
Absolute	exercise	intensity
	refers	to	the	total
amount	of	energy	expended	(expressed	in	
kilojoules
	or	
kilocalories
)	to	produce
mechanical	work,	in	the	form	of	skeletal	muscle	contraction.	Note	that	in
Australia	we	follow	the	internationally	agreed	decimal	system	of	measurement
(metric	system),	which	will	be	used	in	this	textbook	(1	calorie	=	4.18	kilojoules).
See	
Chapter	2
	for	a	more	detailed	discussion	of	energy,	work	and	power.
Kilojoules
A	unit	of	energy	equal	to	1000	joules.	A	joule	is	a	unit	of	energy	equal	to	the	amount	of	work	done	by	a
force	of	1	Newton	(the	force	required	to	accelerate	1	kilogram	of	mass	at	the	rate	of	1	metre	per	second
squared	in	the	direction	of	the	applied	force)	to	move	an	object	1	metre.

Kilocalories
A	unit	of	energy	equal	to	1000	calories.	A	calorie	is	the	energy	required	to	increase	the	temperature	of	1
gram	of	water	by	1°C.
Absolute	exercise	intensity	can	be	expressed	in	
metabolic	equivalents
(METs),	which	describe	exercise	intensity	as	a	multiple	of	the	amount	of	energy
required	by	the	body	at	rest.	One	MET	is	approximately	equivalent	to	an	oxygen
uptake	of	3.5	mL.kg
–1
	·	min
–1
,	although	the	exact	value	will	vary	between
individuals	and	should	be	measured	directly	(see	
Chapter	2
	for	more	information
about	measurement	of	energy	expenditure).	For	example,	the	oxygen
consumption	for	a	70	kilogram	male	exercising	at	an	absolute	exercise	intensity
of	five	METs	for	30	minutes	would	be	calculated	as:
Oxygen	consumption	(
O
2
)	=
	5	×	3.5	
mL	·	kg
–1
	
·	min
–1
	
=
	17.5	
mL	·	kg
–1
	
·	min
–1
O
2
Oxygen	consumption	(
O
2
)	=
	17.5	
mL	·	kg
–1
	
·	min
–1
	×	70	kg	
=
	1225	
mL	·	min
–1
O
2
Oxygen	consumption	(
O
2
)	=
	1225	
mL	·	min
–1
	×	30	min	
=
	36750	
mL	O
2
From	the	estimated	oxygen	consumption	we	can	calculate	the	energy
expenditure	during	exercise,	since	each	litre	of	oxygen	yields	~5	kcal	(see
Chapter	2
	for	a	detailed	explanation).	Therefore,	the	estimated	energy
expenditure	for	the	example	above	is:
Energy	expenditure	(kcal)	=
	36.75	
L	O
2
	×	5	kcal	
=
	183.75	
kcal
To	convert	kilocalories	to	kilojoules	(kJ)	=
	183.75	
kcal
	×	4.18	kj/kcal	
=
	~768	
kj
Maximum	aerobic	power	(
VO
2max
)
The	maximum	amount	of	oxygen	an	individual	can	take	up	per	minute	during	dynamic	exercise	using
large	muscle	groups.
Oxygen	reserve	(%
VO
2
R
)
The	difference	between	resting	oxygen	consumption	and	maximal	oxygen	consumption.

The	difference	between	resting	oxygen	consumption	and	maximal	oxygen	consumption.
In	comparison,	
relative	exercise	intensity
	refers	to	exercise	that	is	expressed
relative	to	an	individual’s	maximal	capacity	for	a	given	task	or	activity.	The
intensity	of	cardiorespiratory	exercise	is	commonly	expressed	as	a	percentage	of
an	individual’s	
maximum	aerobic	power
	(
O
2max
)
,	heart	rate	(HR
max
)	or	rating
of	perceived	exertion	(RPE).
The	most	accurate	method	of	monitoring	the	intensity	of	submaximal	exercise
is	by	expressing	the	exercise	intensity	as	a	percentage	of	the	individual’s
maximal	oxygen	uptake	(
%
O
2
max
)	or	
oxygen	reserve	(
%
O
2
R
)
.
Per	cent	maximal	oxygen	uptake	(%
O
2
max
)	=	
O
2
max
	×	
intensity
	(%)
Per	cent	oxygen	reserve	(%
O
2
R)	=
	[
O
2
max
	–	
O
2
rest
]	×	
intensity
	(%)]	+	
O
2
rest
A	linear	relationship	exists	between	heart	rate	and	oxygen	uptake	during
incremental	exercise	(
Figure	1.3
),	so	an	individual’s	heart	rate,	rather	than	their
oxygen	uptake,	is	more	regularly	used	to	monitor	their	exercise	intensity,	since
heart	rate	monitoring	is	both	cheaper	and	less	invasive	than	measuring	oxygen
consumption.
Several	different	equations	exist	to	estimate	an	individual’s	HR
max
	and	the
equation	used	should	be	appropriate	for	the	population	being	measured.	One
common	formula	is	that	of	Gellish	
et	al.
	(2007):
Maximum	heart	rate	(HR
max
)	=
	207	
–
	[0.70	×	
Age
	(years)]
Per	cent	heart	rate	reserve	(%HRR)
Heart	rate	reserve	multiplied	by	the	desired	percentage	of	exercise	intensity.
Another	method	of	estimating	exercise	intensity	using	heart	rate	methods	is	by
calculating	the	percentage	of	
heart	rate	reserve	(%HRR)
.	Heart	rate	reserve	is
often	known	as	the	Karvonen	formula	(Karvonen	1957).	The	HRR	and	%HRR
are	calculated	using	the	equations	below.
Heart	rate	reserve	(HRR)	=	(HR
max
	–	HR
rest
)	+	HR
rest
Per	cent	heart	rate	reserve	(%HRR)	=
	[
(HR
max
	–	HR
rest
)
	×	
intensity
	(%)]	
+
HR
rest

Figure	1.3.	The	relationship	between	oxygen	uptake	(
	O
2
)	and	heart	rate	during	treadmill	running
The	advantages	and	disadvantages	of	using	heart	rate-based	methods	to	monitor
the	intensity	of	cardiorespiratory	exercise	are	summarised	in	
Table	1.2
.
In	addition	to	measuring	oxygen	consumption	or	heart	rate,	exercise	intensity
can	be	expressed	as	an	individual’s	current	level	of	effort	or	exertion,	relative	to
their	perceived	maximal	exertion.	The	most	common	method	of	measuring	an
individual’s	perceptual	response	to	exercise	is	by	using	visual	analogue	scales
such	as	Borg’s	6–20	scale	of	perceived	exertion	(Borg	1982)	(
Table	1.3
)	or	the
Foster’s	Category	Ratio	(CR)	10	scale	(Foster	
et	al.
	2001)	(
Table	1.4
).
In	comparison,	resistance	exercise	may	be	expressed	relative	to	the	maximum
amount	of	mass	that	a	particular	muscle	group	can	lift	successfully	for	one
repetition,	which	is	known	as	the	one	repetition	maximum	(1	RM),	or	by	using
perceptual	methods	such	as	the	RPE.	Exercise	intensity	for	resistance	training
can	then	be	expressed	as	a	percentage	of	an	individual’s	1	RM.	For	example,	an
athlete	with	a	1	RM	for	the	back-squat	exercise	of	120	kilograms	wishes	to
develop	their	muscular	strength,	and	so	should	lift	~85	per	cent	of	their	1	RM	in
training.	The	mass	they	should	lift	in	training	can	be	calculated	as	follows:
85%	1	
RM
	=	0.85	×	120	
kg
	=	102	
kg
Exercise	intensity	is	stratified	into	categories	related	to	the	level	of	challenge
experienced.	This	will	vary	from	person	to	person	depending	on	the	individual’s
maximal	physical	capacity.	The	intensity	of	the	stimulus	applied	during	a
training	session	(for	example,	the	amount	of	weight	lifted,	or	the	speed	of
running)	determines	the	physiological	and	mechanical	loads	placed	upon	the
body	during	training	and,	consequently,	the	physiological	adaptations	that	occur.
Consistent	with	the	Principle	of	Progressive	Overload	(discussed	in	more	detail

later	in	this	chapter),	the	exercise	intensity	is	one	exercise	prescription	variable
that	can	be	manipulated	to	overload	the	body.	Physiological	and	perceptual
methods	of	monitoring	exercise	intensity	are	summarised	in	
Table	1.5
.
Table	1.2.	Advantages	and	disadvantages	of	measuring	exercise	intensity
using	heart	rate	monitoring
Advantages
Disadvantages
Objective	measurement
Need	to	know	(or	accurately
estimate)	maximum	heart	rate	for
effective	exercise	prescription
Easy	to	use	in	daily	training
Average	heart	rate	for	a	workout	can
be	misleading	if	exercise	intensity
varies	within	a	session
Heart	rate	and	blood	lactate	response
remain	stable	over	time
Limited	usefulness	for	very	high-
intensity	intervals	performed	above
the	maximum	heart	rate
Useful	to	gauge	perceptual	methods
of	measuring	exercise	intensity	such
as	RPE
The	relationship	between	heart	rate
and	workload	is	influenced	by
fatigue,	heat,	humidity	and
dehydration	within	a	training	session
Table	1.3.	The	Borg	6–20	scale	of	perceived	exertion
Rating
Descriptor
6
No	exertion	at	all
7
Extremely	light
8
—
9
Very	light
10
—
11
Light

12
—
13
Somewhat	hard
14
—
15
Heavy
16
—
17
Very	hard
18
—
19
Extremely	hard
20
Maximal
ACUTE	RESPONSES	TO	CARDIORESPIRATORY
EXERCISE
Acute	exercise	stresses	several	of	the	body’s	physiological	systems,	including
the	cardiovascular,	respiratory	and	musculoskeletal	systems.	In	response	to
cardiorespiratory	exercise,	the	cardiovascular	system	increases	oxygen	delivery
to	the	skeletal	muscle	by	increasing	
cardiac	output
	as	well	as	redistributing
blood	flow	from	non-essential	organs.	Furthermore,	the	skeletal	muscle	tissue
extracts	more	oxygen	from	the	blood	to	support	the	metabolic	activities	needed
to	fuel	skeletal	muscle	activity.
Table	1.4.	The	Foster	Category	Ratio	scale
Rating
Descriptor
0
Rest
1
Very,	very	easy
2
Easy
3
Moderate
4
Somewhat	hard

4
Somewhat	hard
5
Hard
6
—
7
Very	hard
8
—
9
—
10
Maximal
Table	1.5.	Stratification	of	exercise	intensity	using	various	physiological	and
perceptual	methods	according	to	the	American	College	of	Sports	Medicine
(ACSM)
Intensity
HRR/
0
2
R
(%)
0
2max
	(%)
HR
max
	(%)
RPE	(6–20)
(Borg	1982)
Very	light
<30
37
<57
<9
Light
30–39
37–45
57–63
9–11
Moderate
40–59
46–63
64–76
12–13
Vigorous
60–89
64–90
77–95
14–17
Near
maximal
≥90
≥91
>96
>17
Source:	Adapted	from	American	College	of	Sports	Medicine	2010.
During	
steady-rate	exercise
	at	low	intensities,	
pulmonary	ventilation
increases	by	virtue	of	an	increase	in	breathing	frequency	and	tidal	volume.	In
contrast,	hyperventilation	(over-breathing)	occurs	during	
maximal	exercise
intensities,	in	order	to	buffer	the	acidic	carbon	dioxide	that	accumulates	in	the
blood	in	response	to	anaerobic	exercise.	Common	values	for	selected
cardiorespiratory	parameters	at	resting,	
submaximal
	and	maximal	exercise	are
presented	in	
Table	1.6
.

Cardiac	output
The	product	of	an	individual’s	heart	rate	(the	amount	of	times	the	heart	contracts	per	minute)	and	stroke
volume	(the	volume	of	blood	ejected	from	the	heart	per	minute).
Steady-state	exercise
Exercise	performed	at	an	intensity	whereby	the	body’s	physiological	systems	are	maintained	at	a
relatively	constant	value.
Pulmonary	ventilation
The	product	of	an	individual’s	breathing	frequency	(the	amount	of	breaths	per	minute)	and	tidal	volume
(the	volume	of	gas	inhaled	per	minute).
Maximal	exercise
Exercise	performed	at	an	intensity	equal	to	an	individual’s	maximum	capacity	for	the	desired	activity.
Submaximal	exercise
Exercise	performed	at	an	intensity	below	an	individual’s	maximum	capacity	for	the	desired	activity.
Metabolism
Chemical	processes	that	occur	within	a	living	organism	to	maintain	life.
Metabolic	acidosis
A	decrease	in	blood	pH	below	the	body’s	normal	pH	of	~7.37–7.42.
Physiological	conditions
The	natural	internal	and/or	external	environmental	conditions	within	which	the	body’s	physiological
systems	operate.
Buffer

A	chemical	system	within	the	body	that	aims	to	counteract	a	change	in	the	blood	pH,	defined	by	the
blood	[H
+
].
Buffers	and	maintaining	acid–base	balance
It	is	important	to	maintain	acid–base	balance	during	acute	exercise	to	delay	the
onset	of	fatigue.	
Metabolic	acidosis
	can	impair	energy	substrate	metabolism	and
result	in	a	reduction	in	the	desired	power	output.	Under	
physiological
conditions
,	lactic	acid	produced	immediately	dissociates	into	lactate	(C
3
H
5
O
3
-)
and	hydrogen	ions	(H
+
)	in	solution.	Hydrogen	ions	dissolved	in	a	solution	are
acidic,	and	therefore	decrease	the	blood	pH.	The	pH	scale,	a	measure	of	the
relative	acidity	of	a	solution,	ranges	from	0	(extremely	strong	acid,	such	as
hydrochloric	acid)	to	14	(extremely	strong	base,	such	as	sodium	hydroxide),
with	a	pH	of	7	indicating	a	neutral	solution	(such	as	water).	Since	many	of	the
body’s	systems	operate	within	an	optimal	pH	range,	the	body	counteracts
increases	in	blood	acidity	by	neutralising	the	rise	in	[H
+
]	using	a	combination	of
chemical	(bicarbonate	and	phosphate),	physiological	(protein)	and	respiratory
buffers
	to	maintain	blood	pH	within	physiologic	limits	(pH	=	~7.37–7.42).
The	main	method	of	controlling	acid–base	balance	during	acute	exercise	is	by
expiring	(breathing	out)	excess	CO
2
	that	accumulates	within	the	blood.	As	the
blood	pH	decreases	(i.e.	becomes	more	acidic),	the	respiratory	frequency
increases	and	raises	the	blood	pH	by	expelling	excess	CO
2
.	In	addition	to	the
respiratory	buffer,	hydrogen	carbonate	ions	(HCO
3
–
)	in	the	blood	neutralise	H
+
,
forming	carbonic	acid	(H
2
CO
3
),	which	dissociates	in	the	blood	to	water	(H
2
O)
and	CO
2,
	with	the	excess	CO
2
	expired.	This	process	is	summarised	in	the
reversible	chemical	reaction	below.
H
+
	+	
HCO
3
–
	↔	
H
2
CO
3
	↔	
H
2
O
	+	
CO
2
Blood	pH	is	also	maintained	by	the	buffering	effects	of	proteins	in	the	blood
and	surrounding	cells,	which	also	act	as	
proton
	acceptors	for	H
+
.	Finally,
phosphate	ions	(PO
4
–
)	act	as	proton	acceptors	in	a	similar	way	to	HCO
3
–
.
Table	1.6.	Typical	values	for	selected	cardiorespiratory	parameters	during
rest,	submaximal	and	maximal	exercise	for	a	healthy	adult	male

Physiological
Parameter
Rest
Submaximal
Exercise
Maximal
Exercise
Cardiac	output
5	L/min
10–15	L/min
20–45	L/min
Stroke	volume
50–80	mL/beat
110–130
mL/beat
110–130
mL/beat
Heart	rate
50–70	beats/min
70–180
beats/min
180–220
beats/min
Skeletal	muscle
blood	flow
15–20%
80–90%
80–90%
Systolic	blood
pressure
100–120	mmHg
120–180	mmHg
180–200	mmHg
Minute
ventilation
5–6	L/min
35–150	L/min
150–200	L/min
Breath	frequency
10–15
breaths/min
15–35
breaths/min
35–50
breaths/min
Tidal	volume
0.5	L/min
0.5–3.0	L/min
3.0–5.0	L/min
Proton
A	positively	charged	subatomic	particle	with	a	positive	electric	charge.
ACUTE	RESPONSES	TO	MUSCULOSKELETAL
EXERCISE
The	musculoskeletal	system	also	undergoes	several	different	physiological
responses	during	acute	exercise	to	allow	it	to	produce	mechanical	work.	Such
responses	to	acute	exercise	include	an	increase	in	
motor	unit
	and	muscle	fibre
recruitment,	muscle	temperature	and	muscle	enzyme	activity.

Motor	unit
A	motor	neuron	(nerve	cell)	and	the	skeletal	muscle	fibres	that	it	innervates	(services).
Acute	cardiorespiratory	and/or	resistance	exercise	requires	repeated	skeletal
muscle	action	to	complete	the	desired	physical	task.	Skeletal	muscle	actions	rely
on	the	actions	of	smaller	fibres	(called	myofilaments)	consisting	of	myosin	(a
thick	myofilament)	and	actin	(a	thin	myofilament).	Myosin	and	actin	slide	past
each	other	during	skeletal	muscle	actions;	hence,	the	process	underlying	skeletal
muscle	action	is	known	as	the	
sliding	filament	theory
.
When	the	external	resistance	is	low,	such	as	during	low-intensity
cardiorespiratory	or	resistance	exercise,	the	body	recruits	predominantly	slow-
twitch	(type	I)	skeletal	muscle	fibres,	which	are	highly	fatigue	resistant	but	have
low	force-generation	characteristics.	In	contrast,	high	external	loads,	such	as
those	encountered	during	maximal	strength	training,	activate	fast-twitch	(type	II)
skeletal	muscle	fibres,	which	are	more	susceptible	to	fatigue	but	are	able	to
generate	higher	forces	(see	
Table	1.7
	for	a	comparison	between	the	physiological
characteristics	of	the	different	skeletal	muscle	fibre	types).	Collectively,	slow-
and	fast-twitch	skeletal	muscle	fibres	produce	the	movements	required	during	an
acute	exercise	bout.
Figure	1.4.	The	sliding	filament	theory	of	skeletal	muscle	contraction
Source:	Retrieved	from	
www.oercommons.org/courseware/module/15136/overview
.
In	addition,	acute	exercise	may	involve	three	different	types	of	skeletal	muscle
actions;	concentric,	eccentric	and	isometric.	Concentric	muscle	actions	involve
the	shortening	of	skeletal	muscle	fibres	and	occur	when	the	contractile	force	of
the	muscle	is	greater	than	the	resistance	force,	whereas	eccentric	muscle	actions

the	muscle	is	greater	than	the	resistance	force,	whereas	eccentric	muscle	actions
involve	the	lengthening	of	skeletal	muscle	fibres	and	occur	when	the	contractile
force	is	less	than	the	resistive	force.	The	skeletal	muscle	length	remains	constant
during	an	isometric	muscle	action,	which	occurs	when	the	contractile	and
resistive	forces	are	equal.
PRESCRIBING	PHYSICAL	ACTIVITY	AND
EXERCISE
Due	to	the	strong	association	between	physical	activity	and	health	outcomes
such	as	chronic	disease	and	obesity,	the	Australian	Department	of	Health	has
developed	age-specific	guidelines	for	physical	activity	(
Table	1.8
).	These
guidelines	are	intended	to	help	facilitate	positive	health	outcomes	for	all
Australians.
Whether	you	are	undertaking	exercise	for	general	health,	or	to	improve	your
competitive	performance,	when	exercise	sessions	are	repeated	over	multiple
weeks	and	months	chronic	adaptations	to	exercise	begin	to	occur.	These	chronic
adaptations	occur	as	a	result	of	the	specific	loading	and	progression	of	exercise
sessions	and	can	be	specific	aerobic,	anaerobic	or	strength	adaptations,
depending	on	the	goals	of	the	individual.	One	of	the	simplest	and	most	common
methods	to	monitor	and	progress	your	training	program	is	by	using	the	FITT
(frequency,	intensity,	time,	and	type)	Principle.	An	example	of	how	you	may
target	different	exercise	goals	using	the	FITT	Principle	is	provided	in	
Table	1.9
.
By	changing	one	or	more	of	the	elements	within	the	FITT	Principle,	you	can
continue	to	overload	the	body	to	promote	adaptations.
Table	1.7.	A	comparison	of	the	physiological,	neurological	and
biomechanical	properties	of	different	skeletal	muscle	fibre	types
Characteristic
Type	I
Type	IIa
Type	IIx
Colour
Red
Red
White
Fibre	size
Small
Medium
Large
Motor	neuron
size
Small
Large
Very	large
Twitch	velocity
Slow
Medium
Fast

Force	production
Low
Medium
High
Phosphate
resynthesis	rate
Fast
Medium
Slow
Oxidative
enzyme
concentration
High
Medium
Low
Glycolytic
enzyme
concentration
Low
Medium
High
Major	metabolic
fuel	source
Triacylglycerols
Phosphocreatine/
glycogen
Phosphocreatine/
glycogen
Mitochondrial
density
High
High
Low
Capillary	density
High
Medium
Low
Myoglobin
content
High
Medium
Low
It	is	important	to	adjust	training	loads	as	an	individual	progresses	through	an
exercise	program	to	ensure	adequate	training	stress	is	applied;	this	is	termed
progressive	overload
.	Following	an	initial	exercise	stimulus,	the	body	is
transiently	fatigued	due	to	acute	changes,	and	subsequently	recovers	and	adapts
to	that	initial	stimulus.	This	results	in	the	body	having	a	new	baseline	level	of
performance,	which	therefore	requires	a	greater	exercise	stimulus	to	promote	the
next	adaptation.	
Figure	1.5
	outlines	the	effect	of	subsequent	exercise	sessions	on
improving	the	performance	level	of	the	individual.	If	exercise	is	not	followed	by
sufficient	rest,	it	may	result	in	the	individual	becoming	overtrained.	Conversely,
if	too	much	time	follows	between	exercise	bouts,	the	adaptations	return	to	the
initial	baseline	levels	without	further	adaptation	occurring.	In	this	sense,	the
periodisation
	of	training	becomes	important	to	ensure	a	sufficient	balance
between	exercise	stimulus	and	recovery.

Progressive	overload
The	continued	incremental	increase	in	training	demand	(duration	or	intensity)	required	to	elicit	an
adaptive	response.
Table	1.8.	Australia’s	Physical	Activity	Guidelines
Age	Range
Guideline
Birth–5	years
Infants	(Birth–1	Year):	30	minutes	of	‘tummy	time’	per	day
Toddlers	(1–2	Years):	At	least	180	minutes	of	activity
including	energetic	play	Pre-schoolers	(3–5	Years):	At	least
180	minutes	of	activity	with	at	least	60	minutes	of	energetic
play
5–12	Years
At	least	60	minutes	of	moderate-to-vigorous	physical	activity
per	day
13–17	Years
At	least	60	minutes	of	moderate-to-vigorous	physical	activity
per	day
18–64	Years
150	to	300	minutes	of	moderate	physical	activity	or	75	to	150
minutes	of	vigorous	physical	activity	per	week
Older	Adults
At	least	30	minutes	of	moderate	physical	activity	per	day
Source:	Adapted	from	Department	of	Health	2017.
Table	1.9.	Example	application	of	the	FITT	principle	for	targeted
physiological	adaptation
Cardiovascular
Endurance
Muscular
Endurance
Muscular
Strength
Frequency
(How	often	the	exercise	is
performed)
3–5	times	per
week
3–5	times
per	week
3	times	per
week
60–90%	max
12+
3–7

Intensity
(How	hard	the	exercise	is)
60–90%	max
heart	rate
12+
repetitions,
2–4	sets
3–7
repetitions,
3–5	sets
Time
(The	duration	of	each
individual	exercise
session)
>30	min
30–60	min
15–60	min
Type
(The	kind	of	activity
completed)
Running
Swimming
Bicycling
Walking
Free	weights
Circuit
training
Body-weight
exercises
Free	weights
Resistance
machines
Source:	Adapted	from	
ThePhysicalEducator.com
.
Periodisation
The	timing	of	exercise	bouts	to	ensure	sufficient	exercise	stimulus	and	recovery	is	provided	to	elicit	the
greatest	response	and	adaptation.
CHRONIC	ADAPTATIONS	TO	EXERCISE
Adaptations	that	occur	as	a	response	to	exercise	are	specific	to	the	training
stimulus	applied	and	include	changes	to	the	cardiovascular,	metabolic,
respiratory	and	muscular	systems.	Regular	aerobic	exercise,	for	example,
enhances	the	ability	of	the	body	to	use	fat	as	fuel	during	exercise	through
increased	transport	of	free	fatty	acids,	fat	
oxidation
	and	mitochondrial
biogenesis	(increase	in	the	number	and	mass	of	mitochondria),	to	name	a	few,
and	elicits	the	development	of	type	I	muscle	fibres.	All	of	these	adaptations	lead
to	an	improved	capacity	to	complete	longer	duration	or	higher	intensity	exercise
while	remaining	within	an	aerobic	state.	Exercise	and	prolonged	training	also
stimulate	the	release	of	a	number	of	hormones,	including	testosterone	and
growth	hormone,	which	promote	an	
anabolic
	effect	on	the	body.	These
hormones	increase	protein	synthesis	and	cell	growth,	leading	to	an	increase	in
lean	muscle	mass	and	decreased	fat	mass.	This	chronic	adaptation	of	an

individual’s	body	composition,	which	increases	the	amount	of	active	tissue	in
the	body,	also	leads	to	an	increased	metabolic	rate	for	the	individual.	Growth
hormone	also	stimulates	cartilage	formation	and	skeletal	growth,	which
encourages	bone	formation.	The	mechanical	loading	of	exercise,	such	as	during
foot	strike	while	running,	also	elicits	the	remodelling	of	bone	to	adapt	to	the	load
under	which	it	is	placed;	this	is	known	as	
Wolff	’s	Law
.	As	is	the	case	with	all
chronic	adaptations	to	training,	when	the	exercise	stimulus	is	removed	these
adaptations	revert	back	to	original	baseline	levels.
Oxidation
Part	of	a	chemical	reaction	that	results	in	the	loss	of	electrons.	During	fat	oxidation,	triglycerides	are
broken	down	into	three	fatty	acid	chains	and	glycerol.
Figure	1.5.	The	general	adaptive	syndrome	and	its	application	to	periodisation
Source:	Adapted	from	National	Strength	and	Conditioning	Association	2011.
Anabolic
An	anabolic	effect	refers	to	the	‘building	up’	and	repair	of	tissues	through	increased	protein	synthesis	and
cell	growth.	It	is	the	opposite	of	‘catabolism’,	which	refers	to	the	breakdown	of	molecules.

cell	growth.	It	is	the	opposite	of	‘catabolism’,	which	refers	to	the	breakdown	of	molecules.
Wolff’s	Law
Bone	in	a	healthy	person	will	adapt	to	the	loads	under	which	it	is	placed.	In	this	sense,	an	exercise
stimulus	results	in	bone	remodelling	that	makes	the	bone	stronger	to	resist	that	sort	of	loading.
Along	with	the	more	commonly	discussed	changes	to	our	cardiovascular,
metabolic	and	muscular	systems,	exercise	also	affects	our	immune	system.
Following	acute	exercise,	there	is	a	reduction	in	white	blood	cell	numbers	and
activity	due	to	circulating	hormones	(catecholamines,	growth	hormone,	cortisol,
testosterone)	and	as	a	result	of	local	inflammation.	This	acute-phase	response
can	last	from	two	to	72	hours	post-exercise.	The	extent	of	these	changes	is
influenced	by	the	intensity	and	duration	of	exercise,	with	longer	duration	and
higher	intensity	exercise	eliciting	a	greater	immunosuppressive	response.	The
immune	system	can	also	be	affected	by	travel	and	when	in	a	team	sport
environment.	Specific	hygiene	practices	should	be	in	place	to	reduce	the
duration	and	severity	of	illness,	as	well	as	to	limit	the	spread	of	infection	during
periods	of	exercise.	Over	a	period	of	time,	there	appears	to	be	a	J-shaped
relationship	between	exercise	and	immune	function	(
Figure	1.6
).	While
sedentary	behaviour	or	excessive/strenuous	exercise	can	result	in	immune
dysfunction	and	greater	risk	of	illness,	moderate	amounts	of	exercise	exert	a
protective	effect	on	our	immune	system.	Nutrition	is	also	thought	to	play	a	role
in	maintaining	immune	function,	through	the	adequate	intake	of	specific
micronutrients	(for	example,	iron,	zinc,	vitamins	A,	E	and	B12)	and	sufficient
carbohydrate	availability	during	exercise	bouts	to	help	limit	the	rise	in	the	stress
hormone	cortisol.
RECOVERING	FROM	EXERCISE
In	order	for	the	body	to	adapt	to	the	exercise	stimulus,	sufficient	recovery	is
required	following	each	bout	of	exercise	(short-term	recovery)	and	training
block	(long-term	recovery).	It	is	during	this	recovery	period	that	the	body	is	able
to	replenish	energy	stores	and	repair	damaged	tissue	to	allow	the	body	to
develop	and	adapt	in	response	to	the	stimulus.	The	simplest	ways	to	recover
from	exercise	are	to	have	a	rest	day	from	training	and	to	get	good-quality	sleep.
Other	common	recovery	methods	include	cold	or	contrast	water	immersion,
compression	garments,	foam	rolling	and	massage.	Nutrition	plays	a	big	part	in
the	recovery	process	through	the	sufficient	intake	and	timing	of	key	macro-and
micronutrients.	The	nutritional	recovery	requirements	are	dependent	on	the
demands	of	the	activity	and	so	will	vary	between	endurance	and	power-based
sports.

sports.
Figure	1.6.	J-shaped	relationship	between	exercise	and	risk	of	an	upper	respiratory	tract	infection
(URTI)
Source:	Adapted	from	Neiman	1994.
Amino	acids
The	building	blocks	of	protein,	composed	of	a	central	carbon	to	which	is	attached	a	hydrogen	(H),	an
amino	group	(NH
2
),	a	carboxylic	acid	group	(COOH),	and	a	side	chain	group.
As	an	example,	endurance	sports	such	as	a	marathon	or	game	of	Australian
football	will	have	key	recovery	strategies	focusing	on	rehydration	and	the
replenishment	of	carbohydrates,	whereas	power-based	sports	such	as
weightlifting	have	a	greater	focus	on	increasing	protein-building	amino	acids	to
assist	in	muscle	repair	and	growth	following	training.	You	can	read	more	about
these	requirements	in	
Chapters	15
	and	
16
.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	understand	the	importance	of	physical
activity	for	human	health.	You	will	have	an	understanding	of	the	types	of	sport
played	in	Australia	and	New	Zealand,	and	be	familiar	with	physiological
adaptations	to	sport	
and	exercise.	You	will	understand	how	exercise	is	measured
and	monitored,	and	be	familiar	with	the	principles	of	exercise	prescription.

Key	messages
•	Physical	activity	is	vital	for	our	health	and	wellbeing,	and	our	daily	physical
activity	levels	can	be	maximised	through	participation	in	intentional	exercise
and	recreational	or	competitive	sport.
•	Exercise	can	be	classed	as	endurance	or	power,	aerobic	or	anaerobic,	and
cardiorespiratory	or	musculoskeletal.
•	METs	are	used	to	describe	the	amount	of	work	performed	during	exercise
based	on	the	amount	of	oxygen	consumed	relative	to	rest.	The	energy
expended	can	be	expressed	using	kilojoules	or	kilocalories.
•	The	intensity	of	exercise	is	often	estimated	using	heart	rate	or	perceived
exertion.
•	The	body	responds	to	cardiorespiratory	exercise	by	increasing	the	blood	flow
to	the	muscle,	increasing	the	volume	of	air	inhaled,	and	increasing	the	amount
of	oxygen	delivered	from	the	blood	to	the	working	muscles.
•	There	are	three	types	of	muscle	fibres,	each	with	different	properties	that
enable	them	to	perform	best	in	different	types	of	activities.
•	The	body	responds	to	musculoskeletal	exercise	by	increasing	the	temperature
and	enzyme	activity	within	the	muscle,	and	by	recruiting	more	muscle	fibres.
•	Exercise	prescription	involves	the	manipulation	of	frequency,	intensity,	time
and	type	of	exercise.
•	Chronic	adaptations	that	occur	as	a	response	to	exercise	are	specific	to	the
training	stimulus	applied	and	include	changes	to	the	cardiovascular,	metabolic,
respiratory	and	muscular	systems.
•	Rest	is	important	to	avoid	overtraining,	promote	recovery	and	minimise	risk	of
injury	and	illness.
REFERENCES
American	College	of	Sports	Medicine,	2010,	
American	College	of	Sports
Medicine’s	Resource	Manual	for	Guidelines	for	Exercise	Testing	and
Prescription
,	Philadelphia,	PA:	Lippincott	Williams	&	Wilkins.
Australian	Sports	Commission,	2018,	
ASC	recognition
,	ASC,	retrieved	from
<www.ausport.gov.au/supporting/nso/asc_recognition>.
Borg,	G.A.,	1982,	‘Psychophysical	bases	of	perceived	exertion’,	
Medicine	&
Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise
,	vol.	14,	no.	5,	pp.	377–81.
Department	of	Health,	2017,	
Australia’s	physical	activity	and	sedentary
behaviour	guidelines
,	retrieved	from

<
www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/content/health-pubhlth-
strateg-phys-act-guidelines
>.
Exercise	and	Sports	Science	Australia,	2018,	
Accredited	exercise	scientist	scope
of	practice
,	retrieved	from	<
www.essa.org.au/wp-
content/uploads/2018/05/Accredited-Exercise-Scientist
Scope-of-
Practice_2018.pdf
>.
Foster,	C.,	Florhaug,	J.A.,	Franklin,	J.	et	al.,	2001,	‘A	new	approach	to
monitoring	exercise	training’,	
Journal	of	Strength	&	Conditioning	Research
,
vol.	15,	no.	1,	pp.	109–15.
Gellish,	R.L.,	Goslin,	B.R.,	Olson,	R.E.	et	al.,	2007,	‘Longitudinal	modeling	of
the	relationship	between	age	and	maximal	heart	rate’,	
Medicine	&	Science	in
Sports	&	Exercise
,	vol.	39,	no.	5,	pp.	822–9.
Global	Association	of	International	Sports	Federations,	2012,	
Definition	of	sport
,
retrieved	from
<
https://web.archive.org/web/20121205004927/http://www.sportaccord.com/en/members/definition-
of-sport
>.
Karvonen,	M.J.,	1957,	‘The	effects	of	training	on	heart	rate:	A	longitudinal
study’,	
Annales	Medicinae	Experimentalis	et	Biologiae	Fenniae
,	vol.	35,	no.
3,	pp.	307–15.
Neiman,	D.,	1994,	‘Exercise,	upper	respiratory	tract	infection,	and	the	immune
system’,	
Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise
,	vol.	26,	no.	2,	pp.	128–39.
National	Strength	and	Conditioning	Association,	2011,	
NSCA’s	Guide	to
Program	Design:	Understand	the	general	principles	of	periodization
,
Champaign,	IL:	Human	Kinetics.

Energy	for	sport	and	exercise
Matthew	Cooke	and	Sam	S.X.	Wu
Our	bodies	require	a	constant	supply	of	energy	to	fuel	our	working	organs,
including	the	brain,	heart,	lungs	and	muscles.	The	major	energy	currency	within
the	human	body	is	an	energy-rich	molecule	known	as	adenosine	triphosphate,	or
ATP.	In	this	chapter,	we	will	explore	how	ATP	is	produced	and	the	factors	that
impact	how	much	we	need.	We	will	learn	about	methods	used	to	estimate	energy
expenditure	and	how	to	calculate	individual	energy	requirements.	Finally,	we
will	conclude	the	chapter	with	a	focus	on	recovery	from	sport	and	exercise.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter,	you	will	be	able	to:
•	define	and	understand	the	association	between	‘energy’,	‘power’	and	‘work’
and	explain	their	relationship	with	exercise	intensity	and	duration	of	exercise
and	sporting	events
•	compare	and	contrast	the	relative	contributions	of	energy	systems	in	relation	to
exercise	intensity,	duration	and	modality

exercise	intensity,	duration	and	modality
•	discuss	methods	used	to	assess	energy	expenditure	and	determine	daily	energy
requirements	of	an	individual
•	explain	the	interplay	between	energy	systems	that	allows	physical	exercise	to
occur,	as	well	as	those	systems’	contribution	to	recovery.
At	rest,	the	demand	for	ATP	is	low;	however,	sport	and	exercise	can	increase
this	demand	as	much	as	a	thousandfold,	requiring	a	coordinated	metabolic
response	by	the	energy	systems	to	replenish	ATP	levels.	The	contribution	of
each	energy	system	is	determined	by	the	interaction	between	the	intensity	and
the	duration	of	exercise,	and	is	regulated	by	metabolic	processes	and	the	
central
nervous	system
.
THE	RELATIONSHIP	BETWEEN	ENERGY,
WORK	AND	POWER
Energy	exists	in	many	different	forms.	Although	there	are	many	specific	types	of
energy,	the	two	major	forms	are	
kinetic	energy
	and	
potential	energy
.	Kinetic
energy	is	the	energy	in	moving	objects	or	mass,	such	as	mechanical	energy	and
electrical	energy.	Potential	energy	is	any	form	of	energy	that	has	stored	potential
and	can	be	put	to	future	use	such	as	nuclear	energy	and	chemical	energy	(ATP).
With	exercise,	energy	is	the	capacity	to	do	work	and	is	calculated	as	follows:
Equation	1:	Work	done	(Newton·metres	[N·m]	or	Joules	[J])	=	Force	(N)
	×
Distance	(m)
Work	done,	measured	in	
Newton	metres
	or	
Joules
	is	calculated	as	force
multiplied	by	distance.	For	example,	the	greater	the	force	required	to	move	an
object,	or	the	further	the	distance	of	the	object	to	be	moved,	the	greater	the	work
done.	Power,	also	known	as	work	rate,	is	the	amount	of	work	done	over	time:
Equation	2:	Power	(Watts	[W])	=	Work	done	(J)	÷	Time	(s)
Therefore,	the	faster	the	rate	at	which	work	is	completed,	the	higher	the	power
output.	With	sufficient	training,	athletes	can	develop	physiological	adaptations
that	allow	them	to	perform	a	larger	amount	of	work	in	a	short	period	of	time,
thus	generating	higher	power	outputs	(see	
Table	2.1
).	Power	output	is	often	used
in	sports	such	as	cycling	and	rowing	to	quantify	training	loads	or	as	a	measure	of
exercise	performance.	It	is	not	uncommon	for	professional	riders	in	the	Tour	de

France	to	produce	more	than	1600	watts	in	the	final	sprint	and	reach	75	km/h
after	two	weeks	of	gruelling	cycling	over	the	French	Alps	and	having	just
completed	200	kilometres	immediately	prior	to	the	sprint!
Table	2.1.	Adaptations	from	aerobic	and	anaerobic	resistance	training
Aerobic	training
Anaerobic	resistance	training
Increases	in:
Increases	in:
•	Aerobic	power	output
•	Anaerobic	power	output
•	Muscular	endurance	at	prolonged
submaximal	intensities
•	Muscular	endurance	at	high	power
outputs
•	Capillary	density
•	Strength	production
•	Mitochondrial	density	and	size
•	Muscle	fibre	size
•	Proportion	of	Type	I	muscle	fibres
•	Proportion	of	Type	II	muscle	fibres
•	Aerobic	enzymes
•	Anaerobic	substrates
ENERGY	IN	THE	HUMAN	BODY
Chemical	energy	is	a	form	of	potential	energy	that	is	stored	in	the	bonds	of
atoms	and	molecules.	Within	the	body,	the	major	energy	currency	is	the	ATP
molecule,	which	comprises	three	components:	An	adenine	ring	(as	part	of
adenosine),	ribose	sugar	and	three	phosphate	groups	(triphosphate)	(
Figure	2.1
).
Carbohydrates,	protein,	fats	and	alcohol	(discussed	in	more	detail	in	
Chapter
4
)	are	sources	of	energy	in	the	diet.	Under	normal	circumstances,	more	than	95
per	cent	of	this	food	energy	is	digested	and	absorbed	from	the	gastrointestinal
tract,	providing	the	body	with	its	chemical	energy	needs	(see	
Chapter	3
	for	more
detail	on	digestion	and	absorption).

Figure	2.1.	An	ATP	molecule
Hydrolysis
The	breakdown	of	a	compound	by	chemical	reaction	with	water.
Catabolic	reactions
Biochemical	reactions	that	result	in	the	breakdown	of	large	molecules	and	give	off	energy	in	the	form	of
ATP.
Anabolic	reactions
Small	molecules	join	to	form	a	larger	molecule	in	the	presence	of	energy	(ATP).
In	the	presence	of	water,	ATP	can	be	broken	down	to	form	adenosine
diphosphate	(ADP).	This	process	is	known	as	
hydrolysis
.	Living	cells	contain
ten	times	more	ATP	than	ADP.	When	ATP	is	hydrolysed	to	ADP,	a	large
amount	of	energy	is	released.	The	release	of	this	free	energy	from	the	high-
energy	bonds	is	used	to	drive	energy-requiring	reactions	such	as	protein
synthesis.
Reactions	within	a	cell	can	be	classed	as	either	catabolic	or	anabolic.
Catabolic	reactions
	involve	breaking	molecules	down	into	their	smaller
components;	energy	is	released	as	a	by-product	of	these	reactions.	
Anabolic
reactions
	involve	combining	simple	molecules	to	form	complex	molecules,	and
energy	in	the	form	of	ATP	is	required	to	support	these	reactions.	Energy-
yielding	reactions	(catabolic)	within	a	cell	are	typically	coupled	to	energy-
requiring	reactions	(anabolic).	The	high-energy	bonds	of	ATP	thus	play	a	central
role	in	cell	metabolism	by	serving	as	a	usable	storage	form	of	free	energy.

PRODUCTION	OF	ENERGY:	THE	ROLE	OF
METABOLIC	PATHWAYS
Given	the	importance	of	energy,	especially	chemical	energy	in	the	form	of	ATP,
it	is	not	surprising	that	the	human	body	has	a	number	of	important	metabolic
pathways	to	ensure	its	ATP	levels	remain	relatively	constant.	A	metabolic
pathway	is	a	linked	series	of	
enzyme
-mediated	biochemical	reactions	occurring
within	a	cell.
Enzymes
Proteins	that	start	or	speed	up	a	chemical	reaction	while	undergoing	no	permanent	change	to	their
structure.	Enzymes	perform	this	function	by	lowering	the	minimum	energy	required	(activation	energy)
to	start	a	chemical	reaction.	Enzymes	are	involved	in	most	biochemical	reactions;	without	them,	most
organisms	could	not	survive.
Cytoplasm
The	semifluid	substance	contained	within	a	cell.
The	three	main	metabolic	pathways	for	ATP	resynthesis	(
Figure	2.2
)	are:	(a)
the	phosphagen	system	(ATP-PCr,	alactacid),	(b)	anaerobic	glycolysis	(lactic
acid)	and	(c)	oxidative	phosphorylation	(mitochondrial	ATP	production).	Both
the	phosphagen	system	and	glycolysis	pathway	occur	in	the	
cytoplasm
	(cytosol)
of	the	cell.	Oxidative	phosphorylation	occurs	within	the	mitochondria.
Mitochondria	are	known	as	the	powerhouses	of	the	cell.	They	are	organelles	that
act	like	a	digestive	system	to	take	in	nutrients,	break	them	down	and	create
energy-rich	molecules	for	the	cell.
The	phosphagen	system
The	phosphagen	system	is	the	quickest	way	to	resynthesise	ATP,	and	comprises
three	reactions	(
Table	2.2
).	Phosphocreatine	(PCr)	donates	a	phosphate	to	ADP
to	produce	ATP.	Despite	its	ability	to	rapidly	resynthesise	ATP,	the	total
capacity	of	this	high-energy	phosphate	system	to	sustain	maximal	muscle
contraction	is	about	four	seconds,	assuming	complete	depletion	of	PCr	and	ATP.
With	this	in	mind,	
creatine	supplementation
	has	been	investigated	over	the	past

few	decades	as	a	way	to	enhance	exercise	performance.	Creatine
supplementation	can	increase	total	creatine,	specifically	PCr	levels	stored	in	the
muscle,	and	thus	enhance	the	rephosphorylation	of	ADP	to	ATP.	Numerous
studies	have	shown	the	benefits	of	creatine	supplementation	on	exercise
performance,	especially	that	involving	short-burst,	high-intensity	power-type
movements,	such	as	power	lifting	(Cooper	
et	al.
	2012).
Creatine	supplementation
Supplementation	with	synthetic	creatine	can	augment	the	level	of	creatine	in	the	body	and	lead	to
enhanced	performance	of	power	activities.
Table	2.2.	Three	reactions	of	the	phosphagen	system
Reactants
Products
Enzymes	Used
ATP	+	Water	(H
2
O)
ADP	+	Pi	+	Energy
ATPase
PCr	+	ADP
ATP	+	Cr
Creatine	kinase
ADP	+	ADP
ATP	+	AMP
Adenylate	kinase
Note:	ATP:	Adenosine	triphosphate;	ADP:	Adenosine	diphosphate:	AMP:	Adenosine	monophosphate;	Pi:
Inorganic	phosphate;	PCr:	Phosphocreatine;	Cr:	Creatine
Glycolysis
A	major	source	of	cellular	energy	comes	from	the	breakdown	of	carbohydrates,
particularly	glucose	(see	
Chapter	4
	for	more	detail	about	carbohydrates).	The
complete	oxidative	breakdown	of	glucose	to	carbon	dioxide	(CO
2
)	and	water
(H
2
O)	is	written	as	follows:
C
6
H
12
	+	6O
2
	→	
6	CO
2
	+	6	H
2
O
Glycolysis
The	breakdown	of	glucose	to	form	two	molecules	of	ATP.
Within	cells,	glucose	is	oxidised	in	a	series	of	steps	coupled	to	the	synthesis	of

ATP.	
Glycolysis
	is	common	to	virtually	all	cells	and	is	the	first	step	in	the
breakdown	of	glucose.	It	increases	when	oxygen	is	lacking	(anaerobic)	and	the
demand	for	ATP	is	high.
The	terms	‘aerobic’	and	‘anaerobic’	are	used	to	describe	the	different
conditions	by	which	oxidation	of	food	molecules	especially	glucose,	fatty	acids
and	proteins	occur	(known	as	respiration).	Aerobic	respiration	occurs	when
adequate	oxygen	is	present,	anaerobic	respiration	occurs	when	lack	of	oxygen	is
present	and	the	demand	for	ATP	is	high.	Check	out	
Box	2.1
	for	more
information.
Anaerobic	glycolysis	involves	a	series	of	ten	steps	(see	
Figure	2.2
)	that	utilise
glucose,	either	circulating	in	the	blood	or	from	the	stored	form	of	glycogen,	to
produce	two	ATP	molecules,	pyruvate	and	reduced	coenzyme	NADH.
Glycolysis	also	produces	
lactic	acid
,	predominately	during	exercise	performed
at	high	intensities	(see	
Chapter	1
	for	more	information	about	lactic	acid	and
buffering).	Although	the	production	of	lactic	acid	will	contribute	to	the	local
fatigue	of	the	muscle,	it	is	the	only	metabolic	pathway	that	can	keep	up	with	the
high	demand	for	ATP	resynthesis	and,	thus,	allow	muscle	to	continue
contracting	at	high	intensities.	The	total	capacity	of	anaerobic	glycolysis	to
sustain	maximal	contractions	is	approximately	30	seconds.
Lactic	acid
A	by-product	of	anaerobic	glycolysis	that	contributes	to	fatigue	of	the	muscle.
Coenzyme
A	substance	that	works	with	an	enzyme	to	initiate	or	assist	the	function	of	the	enzyme.	It	may	be
considered	a	helper	molecule	for	a	biochemical	reaction.
Krebs	cycle
A	series	of	biochemical	reactions	that	generate	energy	from	the	breakdown	of	pyruvate	(the	end-product
of	glycolysis).
When	adequate	oxygen	is	present	(aerobic),	pyruvate	(the	end-product	of
glycolysis)	undergoes	decarboxylation	(a	chemical	reaction	that	removes	a
carboxyl	group	and	releases	CO
2
)	in	the	presence	of	
coenzyme
	A	(CoA)	to

produce	acetyl	CoA.
Acetyl	CoA	then	enters	the	
Krebs	cycle
	(also	known	as	the	citric	acid	cycle	or
TCA	cycle),	which	is	the	central	pathway	in	oxidative	metabolism	and	the	first
stage	in	cellular	respiration	(
Figure	2.2
).
Cellular	respiration
The	Krebs	cycle,	in	conjunction	with	oxidative	phosphorylation,	provides	the
vast	majority	(more	than	95	per	cent)	of	energy	used	by	aerobic	cells	in	humans.
The	Krebs	cycle	is	a	series	of	eight	reactions	that	break	down	pyruvate	to
produce	reduced	coenzymes	NADH
+
	+	H
+
	and	FADH
2
,	carbon	dioxide	and
guanosine	triphosphate	(GTP),	a	high-energy	molecule	(
Figure	2.2
).
Figure	2.2.	Metabolic	pathways	involved	in	ATP	resynthesis
Box	2.1:	Did	you	know?	Aerobic	vs	anaerobic	glycolysis
Before	the	1980s,	scholars	and	researchers	referred	to	the	complete
oxidation	of	carbohydrate	as	‘aerobic	glycolysis’,	as	opposed	to	‘anaerobic
glycolysis’,	which	is	often	referred	to	now	when	pyruvate	is	converted	to
lactate	(a	temporary	product	formed	when	pyruvate	combines	with	a
hydrogen	ion,	H
+
).	The	difference	in	terminology	was	based	on	the
assumption	that	the	extent	of	cell	oxygenation	was	the	primary	determining
factor	for	the	complete	oxidation	of	pyruvate	via	mitochondrial	respiration

or	production	of	lactate.	This	is	inconsistent	with	the	biochemistry	of
glycolysis.	We	now	know	that	if	the	intensity	of	the	exercise	is	high
enough,	lactate	is	produced	regardless	of	normal	oxygenation,	or	even
hyper-oxygenation	such	as	with	the	breathing	of	pure	oxygen.	Terms
—‘lactic	glycolysis’	versus	‘alactacid	glycolysis’	for	intense	and	steady-
state	exercise	conditions	respectively—have	been	proposed	as	being	more
biochemically	representative	(Baker	
et	al.
	2010).
Electron	transport	chain
Electrons	are	passed	through	a	series	of	proteins	and	molecules	in	the	mitochondria	to	generate	large
amounts	of	ATP.
Cellular	respiration
A	series	of	metabolic	reactions	within	the	cell	that	generate	energy	(ATP)	from	nutrients.
Electron
Negatively	charged	subatomic	particles.
Oxidative	phosphorylation
The	
electron	transport	chain
	(ETC)	is	the	next	step	in	the	breakdown	of
glucose	and	the	final	step	in	
cellular	respiration
.	Requiring	oxygen	to	function,
reduced	coenzymes	from	the	Krebs	cycle	and	glycolysis	are	re-oxidised	with
their	
electrons
	transferred	through	the	ETC	to	produce	large	amounts	of	ATP
(
Figure	2.2
).	Mitochondrial	oxidative	phosphorylation	is	the	only	source	of	ATP
production	that	has	the	capacity	to	support	prolonged	exercise.
The	total	yield	from	the	complete	oxidation	of	a	glucose	molecule	is	38
molecules	of	ATP.	This	comes	from:
•	a	net	gain	of	two	ATP	molecules	from	glycolysis
•	an	additional	two	molecules	from	the	conversion	of	pyruvate	to	acetyl	CoA	and
subsequent	metabolism	via	the	Krebs	(citric	acid)	cycle

•	the	assumption	that	the	oxidation	of	the	reduced	coenzymes,	NADH+	+	H+
and	FADH
2
,	will	produce	three	and	two	molecules	of	ATP	respectively.
Both	glycolysis	and	the	Krebs	cycle	give	rise	to	ten	molecules	of	NADH
+
	+	H
+
and	two	molecules	of	FADH
2
	combined.	In	the	case	where	two	molecules	of
NADH
+
	+	H
+
	produced	by	glycolysis	are	unable	to	enter	mitochondria	directly
from	the	cytosol,	the	total	yield	is	36.	The	pathways	involved	in	glucose
degradation	also	play	a	central	role	in	the	breakdown	of	other	organic	molecules
(discussed	further	in	
Chapter	4
),	such	as	nucleotides,	amino	acids	and	fatty
acids,	to	form	ATP.
INTERACTION	AMONG	METABOLIC	ENERGY
SYSTEMS:	INFLUENCE	OF	SPORT	AND
EXERCISE
The	interaction	and	relative	contribution	of	the	three	energy	systems	during
different	exercise	intensities	and	sporting	activities	have	been	of	considerable
interest	to	exercise	scientists	and	biochemists.	The	first	attempts	to	understand
these	interactions	appeared	in	the	literature	in	the	1960s	and	1970s,	using
incremental	exercise	and	periods	of	maximal	exhaustive	exercise.	Although
energy	systems	respond	differently	in	relation	to	the	diverse	energy	demands
placed	on	them	during	daily	and	sporting	activities,	we	now	know	that	virtually
all	physical	activities	derive	some	energy	from	each	of	the	three	energy-
supplying	processes.	With	this	in	mind,	the	energy	system	most	suited
(dependent	on	the	energy	demands	of	the	exercise)	will	contribute	sequentially,
but	in	an	overlapping	fashion,	to	provide	energy	(see	
Table	2.3
	for	examples	of
which	energy	system	is	best	suited	for	various	sporting	activities).
Compare	the	demands	of	a	100-metre	sprint	to	a	42.2-kilometre	marathon.
The	sprint	is	fast,	with	minimal	oxygen	breathed	in	during	its	ten-second
duration,	making	the	event	almost	exclusively	anaerobic	(Newsholme	
et	al.
1994).	The	marathon,	on	the	other	hand,	is	primarily	an	aerobic	event	completed
in	two	to	two-and-a-half	hours	at	80–85	per	cent	of	an	elite	athlete’s	maximal
capacity	(Newsholme	
et	al.
	1994).	Despite	the	different	demands	of	each	event,
all	systems	are	activated	at	the	start	of	exercise	to	maintain	ATP	levels	and
ensure	adequate	supply	for	maximal	power	output	and	intensity.	The	anaerobic
(non-mitochondrial)	systems,	which	are	capable	of	supporting	extremely	high
muscle	force	application	and	power	outputs	such	as	those	during	a	100-metre

sprint,	would	be	the	predominant	energy	system	used	at	these	times.	During	a
marathon	race,	the	anaerobic	system,	which	is	limited	in	its	capacity,	is	unable	to
meet	the	energy	demands	required	by	extended	periods	of	intense	exercise.	The
aerobic	energy	system	(oxidative	metabolism)	is	the	only	system	that	can
resynthesise	ATP	at	a	rate	that	can	maintain	the	required	power	and	work	output
needed	during	the	race.	The	aerobic	system	also	plays	a	significant	role	in
performance	during	high-intensity	exercise,	with	a	maximal	exercise	effort	of	75
seconds	deriving	approximately	equal	energy	from	the	aerobic	and	anaerobic
energy	systems	(Baker	
et	al.
	2010).
Table	2.3.	Energy	systems	used	to	support	select	sporting	activities
Phosphagen	(ATP-
PCr,	alactacid)	system
Anaerobic	glycolysis
(lactic	acid)	system
Oxidative
phosphorylation
(mitochondrial	ATP
production)
Sprinting—
performance	is
determined
predominantly	by	the
capacity	of	the	ATP-
PCr	system	because	of
the	short	distance
covered.	However,
events	longer	than	100
m	would	require	greater
input	from	anaerobic
glycolysis.
Swimming—
performance	is
determined
predominantly	by	the
capacity	of	the	ATP-
PCr	and	glycolytic
system	because	of	the
short	distance	covered.
However,	events	such
as	the	1500	m	would
require	input	from
oxidative
phosphorylation.
Marathon	running—
although	all	energy
systems	would	be
activated,	performance
is	determined
predominantly	by	the
capacity	of	oxidative
phosphorylation,	with
input	from	anaerobic
glycolysis	during
periods	of	sprinting.
Golf—given	the
explosive	nature	of	the
sport	(i.e.	club	swing),
performance	is
determined
predominantly	by	the
capacity	of	the	ATP-
PCr	system.
Fencing—performance
is	determined
predominantly	by	the
capacity	of	the	ATP-
PCr	and	glycolytic
system	because	of	the
numerous	short,
powerful	bursts	that	last
around	5–10	seconds.
Basketball—basketball
games	typically	last
about	50	minutes,	which
means	performance	is
determined
predominantly	by	the
capacity	of	oxidative
phosphorylation.
However,	the	game	also

around	5–10	seconds.
However,	the	game	also
requires	short	bursts	of
explosive	power	and
thus	would	need	input
from	the	ATP-PCr	and
glycolytic	systems.
QUANTIFYING	ENERGY	EXPENDITURE:
APPLICATIONS	IN	SPORT	AND	EXERCISE
Regardless	of	which	energy	system	predominates	during	exercise,	all	energy
systems	contribute	to	the	supply	of	energy	and	thus	have	important	implications
for	performance	and	recovery.	Measurement	of	an	athlete’s	energy	expenditure
helps	determine	the	daily	energy	requirements	for	the	athlete’s	training	and
competition,	to	inform	dietary	requirements	to	help	them	achieve	body
composition	and	performance	goals.	For	example,	a	power	lifter	training	to
increase	muscle	mass	would	aim	to	consume	more	energy	than	is	expended	to
increase	his	body	mass.	Alternatively,	a	boxer	attempting	to	lose	weight	would
aim	to	consume	less	energy	than	he	expends.	Of	course,	the	composition	of	the
diet	can	also	impact	on	performance	and	body	composition,	as	will	be	discussed
in	detail	in	other	chapters.
Direct	calorimetry
A	direct	measure	of	heat	transfer	to	determine	energy	expenditure.
So,	how	do	we	measure	energy	expenditure?	We	know	that	the	rate	of	energy
metabolism	is	directly	proportional	to	the	amount	of	heat	our	whole	body
produces.	As	such,	the	rate	of	metabolism	can	be	quantified	by	measuring	heat
produced	by	the	body.	This	direct	measurement	method	is	known	as	
direct
calorimetry
.	This	relationship	is	represented	in	
Figure	2.3
.
Direct	calorimetry	requires	a	person	to	be	placed	in	an	insulated	chamber,
which	allows	all	heat	production	within	the	chamber	to	be	measured.	Although
this	method	is	highly	accurate,	building	a	calorimeter	is	expensive	and	requires	a
lot	of	space	in	a	laboratory.	Furthermore,	heat	that	is	produced	by	the	exercise
equipment	when	in	use	may	complicate	measurements.	Therefore,	a	cheaper	and
smaller—but	still	accurate—method	known	as	
indirect	calorimetry
	is	more
widely	used	for	measuring	energy	expenditure.	The	most	common	approach	to
measuring	oxygen	consumption	is	by	open-circuit	spirometry.	This	involves
collecting	all	exhaled	gases	into	a	mixing	chamber,	which	is	then	processed	and

analysed	by	a	metabolic	cart	(
Figure	2.4
).	The	metabolic	cart	analyses	oxygen
(O
2
)	consumed	and	carbon	dioxide	(CO
2
)	produced	to	calculate	metabolic	rate.
Metabolic	rate	can	be	determined	during	rest	(resting	metabolic	rate,	RMR),	or
during	submaximal	or	maximal	intensity	exercise.	The	maximal	amount	of
oxygen	that	can	be	used	by	the	body	during	high-intensity	exercise	is	termed
maximal	aerobic	capacity	(
	O
2max
),	and	is	commonly	used	as	an	indicator	of
cardiorespiratory	fitness	(see	
Chapter	1
	for	more	information	about	VO
2max
	and
cardiorespiratory	fitness).
Indirect	calorimetry
A	method	of	estimating	energy	expenditure	by	measuring	oxygen	consumption	and	carbohydrate
production.
CO
2
	produced	and	O
2
	consumed	can	also	be	expressed	as	a	ratio	(CO
2
/O
2
)	to
obtain	a	number	that	is	normally	between	0.7	and	1.0.	This	number	is	known	as
the	
respiratory	exchange	ratio
	(RER),	and	represents	the	composition	of	the
mixture	of	lipids	(fats)	and	carbohydrates	oxidised	through	metabolism	during
submaximal	exercise	(Peronnet	&	Massicotte,	1991).	These	estimations	are
based	on	our	knowledge	of	the	exact	amount	of	energy	produced	when
metabolising	carbohydrates,	lipids	and	proteins	with	oxygen.	Different	types	of
macronutrients	produce	slightly	different	amounts	of	energy	per	litre	of	O
2
consumed	(
Table	2.4
).	However,	as	protein	normally	contributes	negligible
energy	to	exercise	during	aerobic	exercise	of	less	than	two	hours,	a	release	of
4.82	kcal·L	O
2
–1
	has	been	observed	when	burning	a	mixed	macronutrient
combination	(Lemon	&	Nagle,	1981).	For	ease	of	calculation,	5	kcal	of	energy
per	litre	of	O
2
	is	generally	used	to	calculate	energy	expenditure	during	aerobic
physical	activity.	Therefore,	a	person	utilising	3	L·min
–1
	of	oxygen	during	a	run
would	be	expending	approximately	15	kcal	of	energy	each	minute.

Figure	2.3.	Aerobic	metabolism	pathway	for	macronutrients
Figure	2.4.	Indirect	calorimetry	using	a	mouthpiece	connected	to	a	metabolic	cart
Photo	courtesy	of	Sam	Wu
Respiratory	exchange	ratio
The	ratio	of	carbon	dioxide	produced	to	oxygen	consumed;	used	to	indicate	the	relative	contribution	of
substrates	oxidised	during	submaximal	exercise.
Table	2.4.	Energy	produced	per	litre	of	O
2
	when	metabolising	different
macronutrients

Macronutrient
kcal
	·	
L	O
2
–1
Carbohydrate
5.05
Fat
4.69
Protein
4.49
*Note:	1	kcal	=	4.186	kj
Source:	Anonymous	1952.
Ideally,	tests	to	determine	aerobic	capacity	and	energy	expenditure	should	be
conducted	in	a	controlled	environment	such	as	a	laboratory	to	ensure	accuracy
and	precision	of	results.	Equipment	specific	to	the	athlete’s	sport,	such	as
treadmills,	bicycle	ergometers,	rowing	machines	and	cross-country	skis,	is
commonly	used	to	maximise	the	relevance	of	results	to	the	field.	However,	field
tests	are	sometimes	more	appropriate,	feasible	and	cheaper	to	conduct.	Such
tests,	which	are	
maximally	exhaustive
	in	nature,	include	the	multistage	shuttle
run	test	(also	known	as	the	beep	test),	yo-yo	endurance	test,	or	2.4-kilometre	run
test	(see	
Table	2.5
).	At	times	where	a	maximal	test	is	not	appropriate	due	to	the
possible	risks	of	maximal	exhaustion,	a	health	or	fitness	professional	may
choose	to	administer	a	submaximal	test.	A	submaximal	test	requires	a	lower
intensity	of	exercise	and	therefore	is	associated	with	a	lower	medical	risk.
Physiological	data	acquired	during	a	submaximal	test	(commonly	heart	rate,
blood	pressure	and	ratings	of	perceived	exertion)	are	then	used	to	calculate	and
estimate	the	individual’s	maximal	capacity.
Maximally	exhaustive
Exercise	that	requires	the	participant	to	work	at	their	maximal	capacity	until	exhaustion.
RECOVERY	FROM	SPORT	AND	EXERCISE
During	exercise,	oxygen	consumption	increases	to	meet	demands	based	on
exercise	intensity.	Upon	cessation	of	exercise,	the	increased	oxygen
consumption	does	not	immediately	return	to	pre-exercise	levels,	but	gradually
returns	to	baseline.	This	recovery	period	is	known	as	
excess	post-exercise

oxygen	consumption
	(EPOC).	Previously	termed	oxygen	debt,	it	was
hypothesised	that	the	increased	oxygen	uptake	post-exercise	was	to	repay	the
oxygen	deficit	created	at	the	beginning	of	exercise,	when	energy	production	was
not	sufficient	to	meet	a	sudden	increase	in	energy	demands.
Excess	post-exercise	oxygen	consumption
An	increased	rate	of	oxygen	consumption	following	high-intensity	activity.
Table	2.5.	Maximal	tests	of	aerobic	capacity	and	energy	expenditure
The	
multistage	shuttle	run
	test,	or	beep	test,	requires	participants	to	run
repeats	of	20	metres	at	increasing	speeds	every	minute.
The	
yo-yo	endurance	test
	is	a	variation	of	the	multistage	shuttle	run	test	with
a	higher	initial	running	speed	and	different	increments	in	speed.
The	
2.4-kilometre	run	test,	or	Cooper	1.5-mile	test,
	involves	running	2.4
kilometres	on	a	hard,	flat	surface	in	the	shortest	time	possible.	VO
2max
	is
calculated	as	(483/time	in	minutes)	+	3.5.
Box	2.2:	Estimating	daily	energy	requirements
The	daily	energy	expenditure	for	healthy	adults	can	be	calculated	using	the
equations	below,	formulated	based	on	adults	19–78	years	of	age.	It	is
important	to	keep	in	mind	that	factors	other	than	those	accounted	for	within
these	equations	can	also	influence	resting	energy	expenditure.	These	factors
include	climate,	body	composition	and	surface	area	of	the	body.
Equations:
For	females:	resting	energy	expenditure	(kJ/day)
=	9.99	×	(weight	in	kg)	+
6.25	×	(height	in	cm)	–	4.92	×	age	–	161
For	males:	resting	energy	expenditure	(kJ/day)
=	9.99	×	(weight	in	kg)	+
6.25	×	(height	in	cm)	–	4.92	×	age	+	5
(Mifflin	
et	al.
	1990)
Resting	energy	expenditure	calculated	from	the	above	equations	can	be
multiplied	by	a	factor	according	to	the	individual’s	physical	activity	level
(PAL)	for	an	estimated	total	daily	energy	expenditure.	These	factors	are
defined	as:

defined	as:
1.0–1.39:
Sedentary,	activities	of	daily	living,	sitting	in	office
1.4–1.59:
Activities	of	daily	living	plus	30–60	minutes	of	light
intensity	activity	(e.g.	walking)
1.6–1.89:
Activities	of	daily	living	plus	standing,	carrying	light
loads,	60	minutes	of	walking
1.9–2.5:
Activities	of	daily	living	plus	strenuous	work	or	highly
active/	athletic	lifestyle	(Kerksick	&	Kulovitz	2014).
It	is	important	to	acknowledge	that	there	is	no	clear	classification	for
athletes	of	various	fitness	levels	and	training	intensity.	Therefore,	using
indirect	or	direct	calorimetry	should	be	encouraged	for	an	accurate
measurement	of	total	daily	energy	expenditure.
The	energy	required	for	EPOC	is	supplied	primarily	by	oxidative	pathways
and	is	required	to	return	the	body	to	its	resting,	dynamically	balanced	level	of
metabolism	
(
homeostasis
).	EPOC	can	be	divided	into	two	portions:	a	rapid
component	and	a	slow	component.	The	metabolic	processes	that	contribute	to
the	rapid	component	of	EPOC	include	increased	body	temperature,	circulation,
ventilation,	replenishment	of	O
2
	in	blood	and	muscle,	resynthesis	of	ATP	and
PCr,	and	
lactate	shuttling
.	The	underlying	mechanisms	of	the	slow	component
of	EPOC	are	much	less	understood.	Apart	from	a	sustained	elevation	of
circulation,	ventilation	and	body	temperature,	the	slow	component	has	been
attributed	to	the	storage	of	fatty	acids	as	
triglycerides
,	and	a	shift	of	substrate
use	from	carbohydrates	to	lipids.	The	duration	of	EPOC	depends	on	various
factors,	the	most	important	being	exercise	intensity	and	duration.	Short-duration
and	low-intensity	exercise	has	been	shown	to	produce	short-lasting	EPOCs,
while	high-intensity	exercise	clearly	elicits	a	more	substantial	and	prolonged
EPOC	lasting	several	hours	(Borsheim	&	Bahr	2003).	Several	hormones
released	during	physical	activity	also	contribute	to	EPOC	and	would	gradually
return	to	baseline	levels	(Borsheim	&	Bahr	2003).
Homeostasis
Processes	used	by	living	organisms	to	maintain	steady	conditions	needed	for	survival.

Lactate	shuttling
Lactate	produced	at	sites	of	high	glycolysis	can	be	shuttled	(moved)	to	other	muscles	where	it	can	be
used	as	an	energy	source.
Triglycerides
The	main	type	of	fat	in	our	bodies	and	our	diets.	They	are	made	up	of	a	glycerol	backbone	with	three
fatty	acids	attached.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
Energy	systems	provide	the	human	body	with	a	continual	supply	of	chemical
energy	in	the	form	of	ATP.	Exercise	increases	the	demands	for	this	energy,	but	it
is	the	intensity	and	duration	of	the	exercise	that	ultimately	determines	the	use	of
ATP	and	the	fuel	sources	required	for	its	resynthesis.
Key	messages
•	The	two	major	forms	of	energy	are	kinetic	energy	and	potential	energy.	Energy
is	the	capacity	to	perform	work	and	power	is	the	rate	of	work	completed.
•	Chemical	energy	within	the	bonds	of	a	fuel	source	can	be	extracted	via	a	series
of	complex	reactions	specific	to	one	of	three	energy	systems:	the	phosphagen
system	(ATP-PCr,	alactacid),	anaerobic	glycolysis	(lactic	acid)	and	oxidative
phosphorylation	(mitochondrial	ATP	production).
•	The	phosphagen	system	is	the	quickest	of	our	energy	systems,	with	the
capacity	to	resynthesise	ATP	for	up	to	six	to	ten	seconds.	It	is	predominantly
used	during	very	short,	explosive	movements.
•	Anaerobic	glycolysis	is	second	fastest,	with	the	capacity	to	resynthesise	ATP
for	up	to	30	to	60	seconds.	It	is	predominantly	used	in	short-duration,	high-
intensity	‘speed’	events	such	as	the	400-metre	track	sprint.
•	The	aerobic	energy	system	has	the	slowest	rate	of	ATP	resynthesis.	Its
advantage	over	the	anaerobic	energy	systems	is	that	it	has	a	much	larger
capacity	and	is	able	to	supply	energy	for	hours	rather	than	seconds.
•	All	activities	require	an	energy	contribution	from	at	least	two	energy	systems.
Under	maximal-effort	conditions,	all	three	systems	are	activated	at	the
beginning	of	exercise,	but	one	energy	system	will	predominate.
•	Metabolic	rate	and	energy	expenditure	can	be	assessed	by	determining	heat

•	Metabolic	rate	and	energy	expenditure	can	be	assessed	by	determining	heat
production	from	the	body	or	by	measuring	an	individual’s	oxygen
consumption	and	carbon	dioxide	production	for	a	given	period.
•	EPOC	is	necessary	to	return	the	body	to	a	dynamically	balanced	resting	state
and	is	influenced	mainly	by	exercise	intensity	and	duration.
REFERENCES
Anonymous,	1952,	‘Method	of	calculating	the	energy	metabolism’,	
Acta
Pædiatrica
,	vol.	41,	pp.	67–76.
Baker,	J.S.,	McCormick,	M.C.	&	Robergs,	R.A.,	2010,	‘Interaction	among
skeletal	muscle	metabolic	energy	systems	during	intense	exercise’,	
Journal	of
Nutrition	and	Metabolism,
	vol.	13,	doi:10.1155/2010/905612.
Borsheim,	E.	&	Bahr,	R.,	2003,	‘Effect	of	exercise	intensity,	duration	and	mode
on	post-exercise	oxygen	consumption’,	
Sports	Medicine
,	vol.	33,	no.	14,	pp.
1037–60.
Cooper,	R.,	Naclerio,	F.,	Allgrove,	J.	et	al.,	2012,	‘Creatine	supplementation
with	specific	view	to	exercise/sports	performance:	An	update’,	
Journal	of
International	Society	of	Sports	Nutrition,
	vol.	9,	no.	1,	p.	33,
doi:10.1186/1550-2783-9-33.
Kerksick,	C.M.	&	Kulovitz,	M.,	2014,	‘Requirements	of	energy,	carbohydrates,
proteins	and	fats	for	athletes,’	in:	Bagchi,	D.,	Nair,	S.	&	Sen,	C.K.,	
Nutrition
and	Enhanced	Sports	Performance
:	Amsterdam,	Elsevier.
Lemon,	P.	&	Nagle,	F.,	1981,	‘Effects	of	exercise	on	protein	and	amino	acid
metabolism’,	
Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	13,	no.	3,	pp.
141–9.
Mifflin,	M.D.,	St	Jeor,	S.T.,	Hill,	L.A.	et	al.,	1990,	‘A	new	predictive	equation
for	resting	energy	expenditure	in	healthy	individuals’,	
American	Journal	of
Clinical	Nutrition,
	vol.	51,	no.	2,	pp.	241–7.
Newsholme,	E.A.,	Leech,	A.R.	&	Duester,	G.,	1994,	
Keep	on	Running:	The
science	of	training	and	performance
,	Chichester,	UK:	John	Wiley	&	Sons.
Peronnet,	F.	&	Massicotte,	D.,	1991,	‘Table	of	nonprotein	respiratory	quotient:
An	update’,	
Canadian	Journal	of	Sport	Science,
	vol.	16,	no.	1,	pp.	23–9.

Digestion	and	absorption	of
macronutrients	in	sport	and	exercise
Annie-Claude	M.	Lassemillante	and	Sam	S.X.	Wu
Our	understanding	of	digestion	began	in	1822,	when	William	Beaumont	studied
how	food	was	digested	by	inserting	and	removing	food	from	the	stomach	of
Alexis	St	Martin,	who	had	a	hole	in	his	stomach	as	a	result	of	a	shooting
accident.	This	chapter	will	describe	the	various	processes	involved	in	digestion
and	explore	our	current	knowledge	on	the	impact	of	exercise	on	digestion	and
absorption	and	emerging	evidence	on	training	the	gut.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	describe	the	role	of	the	digestive	tract,	including	accessory	organs	such	as	the
liver,	pancreas	and	gall	bladder,	in	the	digestion	and	absorption	of	nutrients
•	identify	and	explain	the	role	of	key	digestive	enzymes	and	secretions	in	the
digestion	of	nutrients

•	explain	how	normal	digestion	and	absorption	processes	are	impacted	by
exercise
•	identify	and	explain	how	common	dietary	practices	among	athletes	affect
normal	digestion	and	absorption	processes.
DIGESTION
Digestion	is	the	process	by	which	the	body	breaks	down	food	into	nutrients,
which	are	essential	for	normal	bodily	functions.	Digestion	begins	at	the	mouth,
where	food	enters	the	body,	and	ends	at	the	anus,	where	waste	and	undigested
products	leave	the	body.
During	digestion,	food	is	broken	down	mechanically	and	chemically.
Mechanical	processing	involves	breaking	food	into	smaller	pieces	and	mixing	it
with	digestive	secretions.	Such	breakdown	includes	chewing,	opening	and
closure	of	
sphincters
,	churning	action	of	the	stomach,	
peristalsis
	and
segmentation
.	Chemical	digestion	involves	breakdown	of	
macromolecules
	by
enzymes	to	form	smaller	molecules	such	as	glucose,	amino	acids	and	fatty	acids.
These	smaller	molecules	are	then	absorbed	through	the	gastrointestinal	lining
and	transported	to	the	liver	to	be	metabolised	and	redistributed	to	other	parts	of
the	body.

Figure	3.1.	Components	of	the	digestive	tract	and	accessory	organs
Source:	Hodgson	2011,	pp.	312–27.
Sphincters
Muscular	rings	that	open	or	close	to	control	passage	of	food	along	the	digestive	tract.
Peristalsis
The	wave-like	contractions	of	the	longitudinal	muscles	of	the	digestive	tract	that	propels	food	forward.
Segmentation
The	contraction	of	the	circular	muscles	of	the	digestive	tract	that	leads	to	mixing	and	breaking	up	of	food.

Macromolecules
Proteins	(polypeptides),	digestible	carbohydrates,	and	fats	(triglycerides)	digested	by	humans.
Bolus
A	portion,	with	respect	to	food,	that	is	swallowed	at	one	time.
Salivary	amylase	(or
	α	
amylase)
An	enzyme	in	the	saliva	that	breaks	down	amylose,	a	type	of	carbohydrate.
Lingual	lipase
An	enzyme	secreted	by	the	tongue	that	breaks	down	triglycerides,	a	type	of	fat.
Trachea
The	tube	leading	to	the	lungs,	more	commonly	known	as	the	windpipe.
Hydrochloric	acid	(HCl)
An	acid	composed	of	hydrogen	and	chloride	atoms	that	is	produced	by	the	gastric	glands.	HCl	activates
pepsinogen	into	the	enzyme	pepsin,	which	then	aids	digestion	by	breaking	the	bonds	between	amino
acids.
Mouth:	The	starting	point	of	digestion
While	digestion	begins	in	the	mouth,	food	is	primarily	broken	down
mechanically	at	this	stage,	with	some	chemical	digestion	of	carbohydrates	and
fats	(used	mostly	by	infants	as	they	suck	on	foods	such	as	biscuits	and	rusks).
Chewing	is	the	first	stage	of	digestion,	where	the	teeth	and	strong	muscles	of
the	jaw	break	food	down	into	smaller	pieces,	thus	increasing	the	surface	area	of
the	food	exposed	to	digestive	secretions.	The	tongue	moves	food	around	the
mouth,	mixing	it	with	saliva	that	moistens	and	coats	the	food	for	easy	movement
down	the	oesophagus	upon	swallowing.	The	chewed	food	mixed	with	saliva	is
called	the	
bolus
.
Saliva	is	produced	by	the	salivary	glands	and	contains	mucus,	salts,	water	and
digestive	enzymes,	namely	salivary	amylase	(or	α	amylase)	and	lingual	lipase.

Salivary	amylase
	begins	the	breakdown	of	specific	bonds	in	starch	molecules	to
produce	maltose;	however,	this	is	only	a	small	part	of	carbohydrate	digestion.
Lingual	lipase
	begins	the	digestion	of	fats	and	is	present	in	higher
concentrations	in	the	saliva	of	babies;	its	activity	reduces	with	age	due	to
reduced	reliance	on	milk	(and	its	fat	content)	for	energy	production	and	other
physiological	functions.
Oesophagus:	Connecting	the	mouth	to	the	stomach
The	oesophagus	connects	the	mouth	to	the	stomach,	with	sphincters	at	both	ends.
Upon	swallowing,	the	oesophageal	sphincter	opens,	allowing	the	bolus	of	food
to	travel	along	the	oesophagus.	Peristalsis	is	responsible	for	the	movement	of
food	along	this	tube,	allowing	the	bolus	to	reach	the	stomach	even	if	the	person
swallowing	is	upside	down.	The	respiratory	tract	and	digestive	tract	share	the
pharynx	(between	mouth	and	oesophagus);	a	small	flap,	called	the	epiglottis,
closes	during	swallowing	to	prevent	food	from	entering	the	
trachea
.
Rugae
The	folds	of	the	stomach	that	occur	when	the	stomach	is	empty.
Chyme
The	mass	of	partially	digested	food	that	leaves	the	stomach	and	enters	the	duodenum.
Emulsification	of	fat
Involves	formation	of	smaller	fat	droplets	suspended	in	the	aqueous	digestive	juices.	This	process
increases	the	surface	area	of	fat	for	more	efficient	digestion.
Gastric	pits
Specialised	cells	in	the	gastric	glands	that	secrete	gastric	juices.
Intrinsic	factor
A	glycoprotein	produced	in	the	gastric	pits	that	binds	with	vitamin	B12	to	help	in	the	absorption	of

A	glycoprotein	produced	in	the	gastric	pits	that	binds	with	vitamin	B12	to	help	in	the	absorption	of
vitamin	B12.
Vitamin	B12
An	essential	vitamin	found	in	milk,	eggs	and	meat.	The	active	forms	of	this	vitamin	are	methylcobalamin
and	deoxyadenosylcobalamin.	See	also	Chapter	5.
Pepsinogen
Part	of	the	zymogen	enzyme	family.	These	enzymes	digest	proteins	and	polypeptides	(smaller	proteins)
in	the	body	and	are	secreted	in	an	inactive	form	to	protect	the	digestive	and	accessory	organ	tissues
themselves	from	being	broken	down.	The	enzymes	can	be	activated	by	hydrochloric	acid	and	other
activated	zymogens.	The	‘inactive’	feature	of	these	enzymes	is	very	important	to	protect	digestive	and
accessory	organ	tissues	themselves	from	being	broken	down,	as	they	are	all	made	up	of	proteins.
At	the	stomach	end	of	the	oesophagus,	the	gastroesophageal	sphincter	opens
for	the	bolus	of	food	to	enter	the	stomach.	This	sphincter	also	prevents	the
contents	of	the	stomach	from	travelling	up	the	oesophagus,	hence	protecting	the
oesophagus	from	the	strong	digestive	secretions	(
hydrochloric	acid
)	of	the
stomach.	Gastroesophageal	reflux	disorder	(GORD)	is	a	condition	in	which	this
sphincter	does	not	close	properly	for	various	reasons	(for	example,	infection,
long-term	induced	vomiting,	pressure)	resulting	in	a	burning	sensation	caused	by
hydrochloric	acid	irritating	the	oesophageal	lining.
Stomach:	Where	hydrochloric	acid	plays	an
important	role
When	the	stomach	is	empty,	it	shrivels	and	forms	internal	folds,	called	
rugae
.
This	anatomical	feature	allows	the	stomach	to	increase	its	capacity	from	50
millilitres	to	about	1.5	litres	to	accommodate	food	and/or	beverages	and	gastric
juices.	The	smooth	muscles	of	the	stomach	(diagonal,	circular,	and	longitudinal)
contract	and	relax	in	many	directions.	This	creates	a	churning	action	to	mix	the
food	with	gastric	juices	to	form	
chyme
.	This	mixing	is	very	important	for
breaking	chewed	food	into	smaller	pieces,	for	
emulsification	of	fat
	and	for
increased	contact	of	digestive	enzymes	with	their	target	macromolecules.
In	the	gastric	glands	(also	called	
gastric	pits
	due	to	their	appearance),
specialised	cells	secrete	the	gastric	juices	needed	for	digestion	in	the	stomach.
Hydrochloric	acid	and	
intrinsic	factor
,	which	is	needed	for	the	absorption	of

vitamin	B12
,	are	produced	at	the	bottom	of	the	gastric	pits.	Cells	in	the	middle
section	of	the	gastric	pits	secrete	the	proteolytic	enzyme	
pepsinogen
.	Towards
the	entrance	of	the	gastric	pits,	alkaline	mucus	is	secreted,	which	protects	the
stomach	lining	from	the	
strong	hydrochloric	acid.	The	presence	of	partially
digested	proteins	in	the	stomach	triggers	the	release	of	the	hormone	gastrin,
which	in	turn	triggers	the	gastric	juices.
Hydrochloric	acid	is	responsible	for	the	acidic	environment	(pH	2)	in	the
stomach	and	is	important	for:
•	neutralisation	of	slightly	alkaline	salivary	amylase,	hence	stopping	starch
digestion
•	
denaturation
	of	proteins
•	activation	of	inactive	enzymes,	notably	activation	of	pepsinogen	to	pepsin
•	releasing	vitamin	B12	bound	to	proteins	in	food
•	killing	harmful	bacteria	that	can	cause	infection	or	food	poisoning.
In	food,	vitamin	B12	is	bound	to	a	protein;	hence,	it	is	not	available	for
absorption.	During	digestion,	hydrochloric	acid	denatures	the	protein-bound
form	of	vitamin	B12,	thereby	releasing	it.	The	free	vitamin	B12	then	binds	with
intrinsic	factor	for	transport	to	the	small	intestine,	where	it	will	be	absorbed.	The
digestion	of	macronutrients	from	the	mouth	to	the	small	intestine	is	outlined	in
Table	3.1
.
Denaturation
The	change	that	occurs	in	a	protein’s	shape	and	structure	and	resulting	in	loss	of	function.	This
denaturation	may	occur	due	to	external	stressors	such	as	chemicals,	temperature,	digestion	or	other
factors.
Small	intestine:	The	longest	part	of	the	digestive	tract
basic	anatomy	and	physiology	of	the	duodenum,	jejunum,	ileum	and	accessory
organs
The	small	intestine	is	a	long	tube	(4.5	to	7.5	metres)	that	comprises	the
duodenum,	jejunum	and	ileum.	The	duodenum	is	a	short	section	(30	centimetres)
at	the	start	of	the	small	intestine,	while	the	jejunum	and	ileum	are	the	longer
middle	and	end	sections	of	the	small	intestine	respectively.	The	pyloric	sphincter
controls	the	entry	of	chyme	to	the	duodenum	and	prevents	intestinal	contents
from	travelling	to	the	stomach.	The	ileocecal	valve	allows	entry	of	intestinal

from	travelling	to	the	stomach.	The	ileocecal	valve	allows	entry	of	intestinal
contents	into	the	colon.
Villi
Cells	that	form	finger-like	projections	from	the	intestinal	lumen	and	have	microvilli	protruding	from
them.	This	greatly	increases	the	absorption	surface	of	the	intestine.
Enterocytes
Cells	lining	the	intestine	that	are	highly	specialised	for	digestion	and	absorption.
Brush	border
The	microvilli-covered	surface	of	the	epithelial	cells	in	the	surface	of	the	small	intestine.
The	small	intestine	coils	around	the	peritoneal	space,	forming	circular	folds,
and	the	intestinal	lumen	is	covered	with	finger-like	projections	called	
villi
	(see
Figure	3.2
).	Each	individual	villus	is	also	covered	with	microscopic	hair-like
projections	called	microvilli,	which	extend	from	the	plasma	membrane	of	the
enterocytes
.	The	folds,	villi	and	microvilli	are	responsible	for	the	large	surface
area	of	the	intestine;	if	these	were	all	flattened,	the	small	intestine	would	cover
the	surface	of	a	tennis	court.	The	
brush	border
	(the	surface	of	the	small
intestine)	gets	its	name	from	the	collection	of	villi,	which	look	like	the	bristles
on	a	brush.	Many	enzymes	are	secreted	in	the	brush	border	and	this	is	where
macromolecules	are	broken	down.	Like	the	stomach,	the	brush	border	is	covered
by	a	protective	layer	of	mucus	with	an	additional	layer	of	actin	filaments,	called
the	
glycocalyx
.
Table	3.1.	Action	of	digestive	enzymes	and	their	target	nutrients
Region
of
digestive
tract
Substrate
Enzyme
Secreted
by
End-product
Mouth
Starch
Salivary	amylase	(α
amylase)
Salivary
glands
Shorter
polysaccharide
chains	and

chains	and
dextrins
Fat
Lingual	lipase
(minor	contribution
to	fat	digestion	in
adults)
Salivary
glands
Diglycerides
and	fatty	acids
(see	
Chapter
4
)
Stomach
Protein
Pepsinogen
Activated	to	pepsin
by	HCl
Parietal
cells	of
stomach
Polypeptides
Small
intestine
Starch
Pancreatic	amylase
Pancreas
Maltose
Sucrose
Sucrase
Small
intestine
Glucose	and
fructose
Maltose
Maltase
Small
intestine
Glucose
Lactose
Lactase
Small
intestine
Glucose	and
galactose
Fat
Pancreatic	lipase
Pancreas
Fatty	acids
and	glycerol
Polypeptides
Trypsinogen
Activated	to	trypsin
by	enteropeptidases
Pancreas
Tripeptides,
Dipeptides
and	amino
acids
Polypeptides
Chymotrypsinogen
Activated	to
chymotrypsin	by
trypsin
Pancreas
Tripeptides,
dipeptides	and
amino	acids
Polypeptides
Procarboxipeptidases
Activated	to
carboxypeptidases
by	trypsin
Small
intestine
Tripeptides,
dipeptides	and
amino	acids
Tripeptides
Intestinal
tripeptidases
Small
intestine
Dipeptides

tripeptidases
intestine
Dipeptides
Intestinal
dipeptidases
Small
intestine
Amino	acids
Glycocalyx
A	protective	mucus	on	the	epithelial	cells	that	is	weakly	acidic	and	consists	of	mucopolysaccharides.
Figure	3.2.	The	intestinal	folds	and	villi:	important	anatomical	features	that	increase	the	surface	area
of	the	small	intestine
Source:	Hodgson	2011,	pp.	312–27.
While	some	enzymes	are	secreted	in	the	brush	border,	other	enzymes	and
digestive	juices	are	secreted	by	accessory	organs	and	are	transported	to	the	small
intestine.	The	pancreas	and	gall	bladder	are	accessory	organs	to	the	digestive
tract	that	are	responsible	for	secretion	and	storage	of	digestive	juices	needed	in
the	duodenum.	See	
Table	3.1
	for	enzymes	and	their	respective	macronutrients
and	end-products	of	digestion.
The	pancreas	produces	and	secretes	many	enzymes	used	for	the	digestion	of

all	three	macromolecules	(see	
Table	3.1
)	as	well	as	bicarbonate	for	acid
neutralisation.	Secretin	is	a	hormone	released	in	the	blood	when	the	cells	lining
the	wall	of	the	duodenum	sense	the	presence	of	chyme.	This	leads	to	the	release
of	pancreatic	juices	in	this	region	of	the	small	intestine,	to	production	of	bile	by
the	liver,	and	to	inhibition	of	hydrochloric	acid	production	in	the	stomach.
The	gall	bladder	is	a	small	pouch	that	concentrates	and	stores	bile	secreted
from	the	liver.	The	presence	of	fat	in	the	duodenum	stimulates	the	release	of	the
hormone	cholecystokinin	(CCK),	which	signals	the	gall	bladder	to	contract	and
release	bile	in	this	region	of	the	small	intestine.	Bile	acids	and	salts	are	needed
for	the	emulsification	
of	fat	and	the	formation	of	small	fat	droplets,	which	are
key	to	the	effective	digestion	and	absorption	of	this	macronutrient.
Movement	of	chyme	along	the	small	intestine
Upon	leaving	the	stomach,	the	acidic	chyme	enters	the	duodenum	via	the	pyloric
sphincter.	Upon	sensing	the	acid,	the	sphincter	closes	until	the	pH	rises	and	it
relaxes	again	to	allow	the	chyme	to	enter	the	duodenum.	Here	the	pancreatic
juices	neutralise	stomach	acid	and	the	digestion	of	macronutrients	continues	(see
Table	3.1
).	The	frequency	of	opening	of	the	pyloric	sphincter	is	governed	by
stomach	content,	volume	and	chyme	consistency.	For	example:
•	Gastric	emptying	is	slower	after	a	high-fat	meal	(hence	high-fat	chyme).
•	Gastric	emptying	is	faster	after	a	large	meal.	The	stretching	and	expansion	of
the	stomach	drives	the	opening	frequency	of	this	sphincter.
•	Liquids	pass	through	the	small	opening	of	the	pyloric	sphincter	more	easily
than	solid	chyme.
Peristalsis	propels	the	chyme	along	the	small	intestine,	while	the	bi-directional
flow	of	segmentation	allows	for	mixing	of	chyme	with	pancreatic	juices	and	bile
for	further	emulsification	of	fat	and	mixing	with	other	digestive	secretions.	By
the	time	chyme	reaches	the	
ileocecal	valve
,	digestion	of	nutrients	is	complete
and	most	nutrients	have	been	absorbed;	only	water	and	unabsorbed	contents
(such	as	fibre)	remain.	The	latter	serve	as	food	for	the	gut	bacteria	residing	in	the
small	intestine	and	colon.
Ileocecal	valve
The	sphincter	that	separates	the	small	and	large	intestine.
Table	3.2.	Hormonal	control	of	digestion—selected	hormones

Hormone
Secreted	by
Triggered
by
Response
Gastrin
Stomach
Presence	of
food	in	the
stomach
Stimulates	release	of
hydrochloric	acid	and
pepsinogen.	Increases
gastric	and	intestinal
movement	of	chyme.
Secretin
Small
intestine
Presence	of
acidic	chyme
in	the
duodenum
Stimulates	secretion	of
pancreatic	enzymes	in	the
duodenum.	Reduces
intestinal	movement	of
chyme.
Cholecystokinin
(CCK)
Small
intestine
Presence	of
fats	and/or
amino	acids
in	the
duodenum
Stimulates	contraction	of
gall	bladder	to	release	bile
into	the	duodenum.
Secretion	of	pancreatic
enzymes	and	juices	into	the
duodenum.
Colon	(large	intestine)
The	colon	is	larger	in	diameter	than	the	small	intestine	and	comprises	five
regions:	the	cecum	and	the	ascending,	transverse,	descending	and	sigmoid	colon.
The	small	intestine	is	connected	to	the	colon	at	the	cecum;	at	the	other	end	of	the
colon	are	the	rectum,	an	internal	anal	sphincter	and	an	external	anal	sphincter,
which	control	defecation.	The	colon	serves	to	absorb	water	and	some	minerals
from	intestinal	content,	to	sustain	fermentation	of	intestinal	content	by	gut
bacteria	and	to	form	stools.	
Transit	time
	in	the	colon	can	range	from	12	to	70
hours,	during	which	colon	content	changes	from	liquefied	form	to	semi-solid
form	due	to	absorption	of	water	and	digestive	secretions.	The	colon	is	coated
with	mucus	for	protection	and	as	a	lubricant,	and	bicarbonate	is	also	secreted	to
neutralise	acids	produced	by	bacteria.
Transit	time

Duration	of	content	movement	through	the	colon.	This	can	be	affected	by	factors	such	as	illness,
infection	and	type	and	intensity	of	exercise.	When	transit	time	is	accelerated	there	is	not	enough	time	for
water	and	other	macro-and	micronutrients	to	be	absorbed,	resulting	in	their	loss	in	stools.
Stools	are	generally	composed	of	undigested	food,	some	undigested	nutrients,
some	water,	sloughed	intestinal	cells,	bacteria	and	indigestible	fibre.	When
stools	reach	the	rectum,	defecation	is	stimulated	and	expulsion	from	the	body	is
governed	by	strong	muscle	contractions	in	the	sigmoid	colon	and	rectum.	The
internal	anal	sphincter	relaxes	automatically,	while	the	external	anal	sphincter	is
under	voluntary	control;	therefore,	a	person	can	decide	when	to	defecate.
ABSORPTION
The	majority	of	nutrients	are	absorbed	into	the	enterocytes	of	the	duodenum,
jejunum	and/or	ileum	and	transported	to	other	parts	of	the	body	via	the	network
of	blood	and	lymphatic	vessels	in	each	villus	(Figure	3.3).	The	nutrients	move
from	the	intestinal	lumen	into	the	enterocytes	via	different	mechanisms:
•	Passive	diffusion	is	when	small	molecules,	such	as	water	and	small	lipids,	are
freely	absorbed	into	the	enterocytes	across	the	concentration	gradient.
•	Facilitated	diffusion	occurs	when	a	specific	carrier	is	needed	to	transport
nutrients	(for	example,	water-soluble	vitamins)	through	the	enterocyte	cell
membrane.
•	Active	transport	uses	energy	to	transport	some	nutrients,	against	the
concentration	gradient,	from	one	side	of	the	enterocyte	cell	membrane	to	the
other.	Amino	acids	are	absorbed	through	active	transport,	as	is	glucose,	which
is	absorbed	via	the	transporter	sodium-glucose	linked	transporter	1	(SGLT-1).
Once	the	water-soluble	nutrients	and	small	lipids	are	absorbed	through	the
enterocytes,	they	enter	the	bloodstream	and	are	transported	to	the	liver	for
further	metabolism	and	distribution	to	other	parts	of	the	body.	Larger	lipids	and
fat-soluble	vitamins	are	
not	water-soluble,	and	hence	cannot	be	transported
easily	in	blood.	Instead,	they	are	first	absorbed	into	the	enterocytes,	where	they
are	packaged	with	some	proteins	to	form	chylomicrons.	These	are	then	released
into	the	lymphatic	vessels	for	transport	around	the	body.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
The	digestive	tract	includes	the	mouth,	oesophagus,	stomach,	small	intestine,
large	intestine	and	accessory	organs,	including	the	pancreas	and	gall	bladder.

large	intestine	and	accessory	organs,	including	the	pancreas	and	gall	bladder.
Food	is	propelled	along	the	digestive	tract	by	peristalsis	and	enzymes	are
responsible	for	the	breakdown	of	macromolecules	into	simple	molecules.	Many
hormones	regulate	this	process,	which	can	also	be	impacted	by	exercise	duration
and	intensity.
Key	messages
•	Digestion	includes	mechanical	breakdown	of	food	and	mixing	(chewing,
opening	and	closing	of	sphincters,	churning	action	of	the	stomach,	peristalsis
and	segmentation)	and	chemical	breakdown	of	nutrients.
•	In	the	mouth,	food	is	broken	down	into	smaller	pieces	and	salivary	amylase
begins	the	digestion	of	starch.
•	In	the	stomach,	hydrochloric	acid	activates	pepsinogen	for	the	digestion	of
proteins.
•	The	small	intestine	comprises	the	duodenum,	jejunum	and	ileum.
•	Intestinal	digestive	enzymes	and	secretions	are	produced	by	the	pancreas,	liver
and	brush	border.
•	In	the	colon,	water	and	some	minerals	are	absorbed.
REFERENCES	AND	FURTHER	READING
Brouns,	F.	&	Beckers,	E.,	1993,	‘Is	the	gut	an	athletic	organ?’,	
Sports	Medicine,
vol.	15,	no.	4,	pp.	242–57.
Cermak,	N.M.	&	Van	Loon,	L.J.C.,	2013,	‘The	use	of	carbohydrates	during
exercise	as	an	ergogenic	aid’,	
Sports	Medicine
,	vol.	43,	no.	11,	pp.	1139–55.
Costa,	R.,	Snipe,	R.,	Kitic,	C.	et	al.,	2017,	‘Systematic	review:	exercise-induced
gastrointestinal	syndrome—implications	for	health	and	intestinal	disease’,
Alimentary	Pharmacology	&	Therapeutics
,	vol.	46,	no.	3,	pp.	246–65.
De	Oliveira,	E.P.,	Burini,	R.C.	&	Jeukendrup,	A.,	2014,	‘Gastrointestinal
complaints	during	exercise:	Prevalence,	etiology,	and	nutritional
recommendations’,	
Sports	Medicine
,	vol.	44,	suppl.	1,	pp.	79–85.
Hodgson,	J.M.,	2011,	‘Digestion	of	food’,	in	Wahlqvist,	M.L.	(ed.),	
Food	and
Nutrition:	Food	and	health	systems	in	Australia	and	New	Zealand
,	3rd	edn,
Sydney,	NSW:	Allen	&	Unwin,	pp.	312–27.
Jentjens,	R.L.	&	Jeukendrup,	A.E.,	2005,	‘High	rates	of	exogenous	carbohydrate
oxidation	from	a	mixture	of	glucose	and	fructose	ingested	during	prolonged
cycling	exercise’,	
British	Journal	of	Nutrition,
	vol.	93,	no.4,	pp.	485–92.

Jentjens,	R.L.,	Moseley,	L.,	Waring,	R.H.	et	al.,	2004a,	‘Oxidation	of	combined
ingestion	of	glucose	and	fructose	during	exercise’,	
Journal	of	Applied
Physiology,
	vol.	96,	no.	4,	pp.	1277–84.
Jentjens,	R.L.,	Venables,	M.C.	&	Jeukendrup,	A.E.,	2004b,	‘Oxidation	of
exogenous	glucose,	sucrose,	and	maltose	during	prolonged	cycling	exercise’,
Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
	vol.	96,	no.	4,	pp.	1285–91.
Jeukendrup,	A.E.,	2017,	‘Training	the	gut	for	athletes’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	47,
suppl.	1,	pp.	101–10.
Murray,	R.,	2006,	‘Training	the	gut	for	competition’,	
Current	Sports	Medicine
Reports,
	vol.	5,	no.	3,	pp.	161–4.
Peters,	H.,	Wiersma,	J.,	Koerselman,	J.	et	al.,	2000,	‘The	effect	of	a	sports	drink
on	gastroesophageal	reflux	during	a	run-bike-run	test’,	
International	Journal
of	Sports	Medicine
,	vol.	21,	no.	1,	pp.	65–70.
Pfeiffer,	B.,	Stellingwerff,	T.,	Hodgson,	A.B.	et	al.,	2012,	‘Nutritional	intake	and
gastrointestinal	problems	during	competitive	endurance	events’,	
Medicine	&
Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	44,	no.	2,	pp.	344–51.
Wagenmakers,	A.,	Brouns,	F.,	Saris,	W.	et	al.,	1993,	‘Oxidation	rates	of	orally
ingested	carbohydrates	during	prolonged	exercise	in	men’,	
Journal	of	Applied
Physiology,
	vol.	75,	no.	6,	pp.	2774–80.
Wallis,	G.A.,	Rowlands,	D.S.,	Shaw,	C.	et	al.,	2005,	‘Oxidation	of	combined
ingestion	of	maltodextrins	and	fructose	during	exercise’,	
Medicine	&	Science
in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	37,	no.	3,	pp.	426–32.

Macronutrients
Evangeline	Mantzioris
The	macronutrients—protein,	fat	and	carbohydrate—are	essential	nutrients	that
supply	energy	and	are	required	in	relatively	large	quantities	for	the	body.	Protein
and	fat	are	also	functional	building	blocks	and	have	a	diverse	range	of	uses	in
the	body,	including	growth	and	repair,	as	well	as	being	the	precursors	for
hormones	and	components	of	the	immune	system.	While	alcohol	may	be
considered	a	macronutrient	because	it	provides	energy,	it	is	in	a	unique	category;
it	is	not	required	by	the	body	per	se	and	it	also	has	toxic	properties,	and	for	this
reason	it	is	not	considered	essential.	Interestingly,	all	of	these	macronutrients	are
composed	of	the	same	elements:	carbon	(C),	oxygen	(O),	nitrogen	(N)	and
hydrogen	(H).	This	chapter	will	outline	their	chemical	and	biological	properties,
the	importance	of	each	in	the	diet,	and	recommended	intakes	for	good	health.
This	chapter	will	also	provide	you	with	the	foundation	knowledge	you	will	need
to	study	the	remaining	chapters	of	this	textbook,	to	build	your	knowledge	on
nutrition	for	exercise	and	performance.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES

LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	describe	the	chemical	and	biological	properties	of	the	macronutrients
•	outline	the	physiological	and	biochemical	uses	of	macronutrients	in	the	body
•	describe	the	health	effects	of	under-and	overconsumption	of	the	macronutrients
•	explain	the	synthesis	and	metabolism	of	the	macronutrients
•	outline	the	recommended	intakes	and	dietary	sources	of	the	macronutrients.
PROTEIN
Proteins	are	essential	nutrients,	which	provide	17	kJ/g	(4	cal/g)	of	energy	and	are
made	up	of	single	units	known	as	
amino	acids
.	Amino	acids	are	the	building
blocks	of	the	human	body	and	are	used	to	synthesise	cells,	muscle,	organs,
hormones	and	immune	factors,	as	well	as	acting	as	buffers	to	regulate	the	acidity
or	basicity	of	the	body.
Chemical	structure
Proteins	are	composed	of	amino	acid	chains,	linked	together	by	peptide	bonds
(chemical	bonds	between	amino	acids).	Proteins	vary	according	to	the	number
and	
sequence	of	amino	acids,	the	folding	of	the	protein	and	the	interaction	with
other	chemical	groups	in	the	protein	to	induce	chemical	change.	All	of	this	leads
to	unique	individual	proteins,	reflecting	the	variety	of	roles	they	play	in	your
body.
Box	4.1:	Calculating	energy	from	macronutrients	in	food
To	calculate	the	energy	present	in	foods,	you	need	to	multiply	the	total
amount	of	each	of	the	macronutrients	contained	in	the	food	(in	grams)	by
the	Atwater	factors	for	protein,	fat	and	carbohydrate.	The	Atwater	factors
provide	the	available	energy	for	each	of	the	macronutrients	regardless	of
the	food	from	which	they	are	derived.
ATWATER	FACTORS
•	Protein:	17	kJ/g
•	Fat:	37	kJ/g

•	Fat:	37	kJ/g
•	Carbohydrate:	17	kJ/g
For	example,	a	food	label	might	indicate	that	there	is:
•	Protein:	9.6	g
•	Fat	(total):	3.2	g
•	Carbohydrate:	43.0	g
In	this	case,	the	energy	in	kilojoules	that	is	provided	by	each	nutrient	is	as
follows:
•	Protein:	9.6	x	17	=	163.2	kJ
•	Fat:	3.2	x	37	=	118.4	kJ
•	Carbohydrate:	43	x	17	=	731	kJ
•	Total	energy:	163.2	+	118.4	+	731	=	1012.6	kJ
All	amino	acids	have	the	same	basic	chemical	structure:	a	central	carbon	to
which	is	attached	a	hydrogen	group	(H),	an	amino	group	(NH
2
),	a	carboxylic
acid	group	(COOH)	and	a	side	chain	group.	It	is	the	side	chain	group	that	makes
each	of	the	amino	acids	different	(see	
Figure	4.1
).	There	are	20	different	amino
acids;	nine	are	essential	and	the	remaining	11	are	non-essential.

Figure	4.1.	Chemical	structure	of	amino	acids
Source:	Hodgson	2011,	pp.	295–311.
Essential	amino	acids
There	are	nine	amino	acids	that	the	human	body	requires	but	is	unable	to
synthesise
,	and	which	therefore	must	be	obtained	from	nutrients.	As	such,	they
are	termed	essential	(or	indispensable).	These	are	histidine,	isoleucine,	leucine,
lysine,	methionine,	phenylalanine,	threonine,	tryptophan	and	valine.	Depletion
of	essential	amino	acids	in	the	protein	pool	in	the	body	will	begin	to	limit	the
production	of	proteins	essential	for	growth,	repair,	cell	functioning	and
development.

Synthesise
To	form	a	substance	by	combining	elements.
Non-essential	amino	acids
There	are	11	non-essential	(or	dispensable)	amino	acids	that	the	body	is	able	to
synthesise,	but	that	can	also	be	provided	by	diet.	In	some	conditions,	a	non-
essential	amino	acid	may	become	essential;	in	such	cases	the	amino	acid	is
referred	to	as	conditionally	essential	(or	conditionally	indispensable).	Tyrosine	is
a	conditionally	essential	amino	acid,	as	the	body	uses	tryptophan	to	make
tyrosine:	if	tryptophan	is	limited	it	is	then	unable	to	synthesise	tyrosine.
Protein	foods	are	often	categorised	in	reference	to	their	quality,	both	in	terms
of	the	mix	and	amount	of	amino	acids	that	they	contain.	Complete	protein
sources	often	refer	to	animal-derived	proteins	that	contain,	in	the	required
proportions,	all	the	essential	amino	acids.	Plant	proteins	are	termed	incomplete,
as	they	are	missing	one	or	more	of	the	essential	amino	acids,	or	have	levels	of	an
essential	amino	acid	too	low	to	meet	requirements.	Complementary	proteins
refer	to	the	combination	of	two	plant	proteins	to	provide	all	the	essential	amino
acids—for	example,	combining	beans	(lacking	methionine)	with	grains	(lacking
lysine	and	threonine).
Uses	in	the	body
Proteins	have	wide	and	varied	roles	in	the	human	body:	they	are	involved	in	the
growth,	repair	and	replacement	of	all	cells	(including	blood,	muscles,	skeletal
system,	tissues	and	organs),	and	involved	in	regulating	the	homeostatic	control
and	defence	of	the	body	(NHMRC	
et	al.
	2006).
One	of	the	main	functional	roles	of	proteins	in	the	body	is	as	enzymes,	which
accelerate	chemical	reactions	in	the	body.	Enzymes	are	synthesised	from	amino
acids	as	well	as	other	dietary	components	(for	example,	zinc	and	selenium).
They	are	used	by	every	organ	and	cell	to	assist	in	the	repair	and	growth	of	the
body.	Enzymes	also	contribute	to	the	synthesis	of	proteins	involved	in	the
homeostatic	control	of	the	body,	immune	function,	fluid	balance	regulation,
transportation	of	nutrients	and	other	molecules,	and	detoxification	of	the	body.
In	addition	to	protein’s	critical	role	in	growth	and	regulation	of	the	body,	protein
can	also	be	used	as	a	source	of	energy	if	
carbohydrate	and	fat	intake	is	low	(for

instance,	during	times	of	starvation).	If	needed,	muscle	will	be	broken	down	to
provide	further	energy	if	dietary	intake	of	protein	is	also	limited.	Protein	may
also	be	metabolised	for	energy	when	energy	demands	are	sustained	over	a	long
period	of	time	in	performance,	such	as	in	ultra-endurance	events	lasting	3–4
hours	or	more.
Box	4.2:	Nutrient	Reference	Values	(NRVs)
The	National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council	(NHMRC)	has
analysed	and	synthesised	the	data	from	many	thousands	of	peer-reviewed
journal	articles	(the	evidence	base)	to	formulate	the	Nutrient	Reference
Values	(NRVs)	(NHMRC	
et	al.
	2006).	The	NRVs	are	a	set	of
recommended	intakes	for	macro-and	micronutrients	that	best	support
healthy	Australians	to	maintain	good	health.	Requirements	are	expressed	in
the	following	categories:
Estimated	Average	Requirements	(EAR):	This	is	a	daily	nutrient	level	that
has	been	estimated	from	the	evidence	base	to	meet	the	requirements	of	half
of	the	healthy	individuals	in	a	particular	life	stage	and	gender	group.
Recommended	Dietary	Intake	(RDI):	The	average	daily	dietary	intake	level
that	is	sufficient	to	meet	the	nutrient	requirements	of	nearly	all	(97–98	per
cent)	healthy	individuals	in	a	particular	life	stage	and	gender	group.	This	is
the	recommended	level	of	intake	for	individuals.
Acceptable	Intake	(AI):	For	some	nutrients	there	is	an	inadequate	evidence
base	to	provide	an	EAR	or	RDI.	In	such	cases	an	AI	is	recommended.	This
is	defined	as	the	average	daily	nutrient	intake	level—based	on	observed	or
experimentally	determined	approximations	or	estimates	of	nutrient	intake	of
a	group	(or	groups)	of	apparently	healthy	people—that	is	assumed	to	be
adequate.
Estimated	Energy	Requirements	(EER):	The	average	dietary	energy	intake
that	is	predicted	to	maintain	energy	balance	in	a	healthy	adult	of	defined
age,	gender,	weight,	height	and	level	of	physical	activity,	consistent	with
good	health.	In	children	and	pregnant	and	lactating	women,	the	EER	is
taken	to	include	the	needs	associated	with	growth	or	the	secretion	of	milk	at
rates	consistent	with	good	health.

Upper	Level	of	Intake	(UL):	The	highest	average	daily	nutrient	intake	level
likely	to	pose	no	adverse	health	effects	to	almost	all	individuals	in	the
general	population.	As	intake	increases	above	the	UL,	the	potential	risk	of
adverse	effects	increases.
Acceptable	Macronutrient	Distribution	Ranges	(AMDR):	Recommended
ranges	of	macronutrient	contribution	to	total	daily	energy	intake	to	reduce
chronic	disease	risk	while	still	ensuring	adequate	micronutrient	status:
protein	15–25	per	cent;	fat	20–35	per	cent;	and	carbohydrate	45–65	per
cent.
The	NRVs	are	expressed	in	different	formats	that	reflect	intakes
recommended	for	individuals	and	groups,	the	level	of	evidence	for	a
nutrient	and,	where	relevant,	the	highest	possible	safe	intake	of	a	nutrient.	It
is	important	to	realise	that,	like	other	biological	characteristics	of	humans
such	as	height	or	eye	colour,	each	person	is	unique	and	will	have	different
nutrient	requirements,	and	the	NRVs	take	that	into	account.	For	example,
the	RDI	for	men	and	women	over	19	years	of	age	for	vitamin	C	is	45
mg/day,	but	not	everyone	will	require	that	amount.	In	fact,	97.98	per	cent	of
the	healthy	population	will	have	their	requirements	met	at	this	level	of
intake,	meaning	that	only	2.02	per	cent	of	the	population	will	need	more
than	this.	The	EAR	for	vitamin	C	is	30	mg/day,	which	indicates	that	half	of
the	population	will	only	need	this	amount.
Recommended	intakes	for	non-athletes
Protein	in	the	body	is	continuously	broken	down	and	resynthesised.	This	process
is	known	as	protein	turnover,	with	small	amounts	of	protein	lost	in	the	stools.
Protein	is	required	on	a	daily	basis	in	the	diet	due	to	its	ubiquitous	role	and
limited	storage	in	the	body.	It	is	recommended	that	protein	intake	provides	about
10–15	per	cent	of	the	daily	energy	requirement.	For	the	average	adult	who	needs
approximately	8700	kJ	per	day,	this	equates	to	about	50–75	g	of	protein	per	day.
The	NRV	recommendations	for	protein	are	based	on	a	g/kg	of	body	weight	for
each	gender	and	age	group.	The	daily	RDI	for	women	aged	19–70	years	is	0.75
g/kg	and	over	70	years	is	0.94	g/kg	of	body	weight.	The	RDI	for	men	aged	19–
70	years	is	0.84	g/kg	and	over	70	years	is	1.07	g/kg	of	body	weight.
Requirements	for	athletes	may	differ,	dependent	on	their	age	and	sport	played,	as

discussed	in	
Chapter	10
.
Dietary	sources
While	animal	products	that	are	rich	in	protein	are	greatly	valued	for	their	high-
quality	protein	(as	they	provide	a	complete	set	of	amino	acids),	plant	proteins
provide	a	major	source	of	protein	for	many	millions	of	people	around	the	world.
Animal	sources	of	protein	also	provide	valuable	additional	nutrients	that	have
limited	presence	in	other	foods,	such	as	iron	and	zinc	(present	in	meat),	and
calcium	and	vitamin	B12	(present	in	dairy).	Plant	sources	of	protein	(wheat,	rice,
pasta,	legumes,	nuts	and	seeds)	also	provide	carbohydrates,	B-group	vitamins
and	fibre.	This	makes	food	sources	of	protein,	compared	to	protein	supplements,
valuable	for	athletes	and	non-athletes	who	need	to	ensure	that	they	are	getting	a
balanced	diet	in	regard	to	other	macronutrients	and	micronutrients	of	importance
in	exercise	and	performance.
Health	effects	of	protein
Protein	is	important	for	the	maintenance	and	health	of	our	bodies,	and	the
majority	of	Western	populations	consume	adequate	intakes	for	this.	However,	in
developing	countries	the	health	problems	associated	with	protein	deficiencies	are
devastating,	and	it	is	the	leading	cause	of	death	among	children	in	these	places.
In	most	cases,	protein	deficiency	occurs	in	combination	with	an	energy
deficiency,	and	is	referred	to	as	protein-energy	malnutrition	(PEM).	Primary
PEM	occurs	as	the	direct	result	of	diets	that	lack	both	protein	and	energy.
Secondary	PEM	arises	as	a	complication	of	chronic	illness,	such	as	acquired
immune	deficiency	syndrome	(AIDS),	tuberculosis	and	cancer,	due	to	increased
nutritional	requirements,	limited	oral	intake	or	malabsorption	of	nutrients.	Acute
PEM	refers	to	a	short	period	of	food	deprivation,	as	in	the	case	of	children	who
are	often	the	appropriate	height	for	age	but	underweight.	Chronic	PEM	refers	to
long-term	food	deprivation	that	affects	growth	and	weight,	and	is	characterised
by	small-for-age	children.
PEM	presents	clinically	in	two	different	forms:	kwashiorkor	and	marasmus.
Kwashiorkor	typically	represents	a	sudden	and	recent	deprivation	of	food
(protein	and	energy).	In	Ghanaian,	the	word	refers	to	the	illness	an	older	child
develops	when	the	next	child	is	born,	as	a	result	of	being	moved	off	the	breast.
Clinically,	kwashiorkor	has	a	rapid	onset	due	to	inadequate	protein	intake	or

following	illness,	with	both	weight	loss	and	some	muscle	wasting.	The
characteristic	clinical	feature	is	oedema	(swelling	caused	in	the	body	as	fluid
leaks	out	of	capillaries),	which	is	evident	from	a	child’s	swollen	belly,	enlarged
fatty	liver,	dry	brittle	hair	and	the	development	of	skin	lesions.	Apathy,	misery,
irritability	and	melancholy	are	also	evident,	with	loss	of	appetite.	Marasmus
occurs	with	a	severe	deprivation	of	food	(both	in	protein,	energy	and	nutrients)
for	an	extended	period	of	time;	the	malnutrition	develops	slowly	and	children
typically	look	small	for	their	age.	Unlike	
kwashiorkor,	there	is	no	oedema,	no
enlarged	fatty	liver	and	the	skin	is	dry	and	easily	wrinkles.
In	developed	regions,	protein	deficiency	is	more	likely	to	arise	due	to	chronic
illness	or	poverty	and,	as	such,	it	is	unlikely	an	athlete	will	have	a	compromised
protein	intake—unless	it	reflects	a	philosophical	or	religious	reason	that	limits
their	intake	of	animal	products.	
Chapter	6
	will	discuss	planning	diets	for	people
who	choose	to	follow	a	vegetarian	diet.
LIPIDS
Lipids	(or	fats)	are	a	large	and	diverse	group	of	naturally	occurring	molecules,
both	in	the	diet	and	in	the	human	body.	They	include	fats,	waxes,	sterols,	fat-
soluble	vitamins,	monoglycerides,	diglycerides,	triglycerides,	phospholipids	and
esters,	which	we	will	cover	in	this	chapter.	Dietary	fats	provide	a	concentrated
form	of	energy	(37	kJ/g)	and	are	also	a	vehicle	in	the	diet	for	supplying	fat-
soluble	vitamins	(vitamins	A,	D,	E	and	K)	and	essential	fatty	acids	(alpha-
linolenic	acid	and	linoleic	acid).	Importantly,	and	often	under-considered,
dietary	fat	provides	important	
organoleptic
	(taste	and	texture)	properties	to	food
that	contains	fats	and	to	meals	to	which	fats	have	been	added.	Lipids	play	critical
roles	in	the	body,	including	storing	energy,	cell	signalling	and	as	the	major
structural	component	of	cell	membranes.	While	the	intake	of	certain	dietary	fats
(saturated	and	trans	fats)	is	associated	with	the	development	of	chronic	disease,
dietary	fats	are	an	essential	part	of	the	diet,	providing	essential	fatty	acids,
vitamins	and	other	phytonutrients.
Organoleptic
The	aspect	of	substances,	in	this	case	food	and	drink,	that	an	individual	experiences	via	the	senses	of
taste,	texture,	smell	and	touch.

Chemical	structure
All	lipids	are	compounds	that	are	composed	of	carbon,	hydrogen	and	oxygen
and	are	insoluble	in	water,	but	the	different	types	of	lipids	that	exist	are
structurally	very	diverse.	There	are	four	main	categories:	fatty	acids,
triglycerides,	sterols	and	phospholipids	(see	
Figure	4.2
).
Fatty	acids
Fatty	acids	are	composed	of	a	chain	of	carbon	(C)	atoms,	attached	by	single
bonds.	Each	C	atom	can	have	up	to	four	H	atoms	attached.	The	carbon	chain	has
a	carboxyl	group	at	one	end	and	a	methyl	group	at	the	other	end.	Fatty	acids	can
be	classified	according	to	the	number	of	C	atoms	in	the	chain.	Short-chain	fatty
acids	have	2–6	C	atoms,	medium-chain	fatty	acids	6–12	C	atoms,	long-chain	14–
20	C	atoms	and,	finally,	very	long-chain	fatty	acids	more	than	20	C	atoms.	Fatty
acids	are,	however,	more	often	classified	according	to	the	number	of	double
bonds	present	between	the	C	atoms—the	more	double	bonds	in	the	chain,	the
more	unsaturated	the	fatty	acid.

Figure	4.2.	Structural	relationship	of	some	fatty	acids
Source:	Jones	&	Hodgson	2011,	pp.	284–94.
Saturated	fatty	acids
Fatty	acid	chains	that	contain	no	double	bonds	between	the	C	atoms	are	referred
to	as	saturated	fatty	acids.	They	are	mostly	found	in	animal	food	products,	such
as	meat,	cheese	and	butter,	but	are	also	present	in	some	plant	products,	such	as

coconut	and	palm	oils.	Saturated	fats	are	associated	with	an	increased	risk	of
cardiovascular	disease;	however,	emerging	research	is	beginning	to	show	that
their	effect	may	not	be	as	great	as	once	thought	(Dehghan	
et	al.
	2017).	The
research	and	scientific	debate	in	this	area	is	still	continuing	and	as	new	high-
quality	evidence	emerges	this	may	lead	to	changes	in	dietary	advice.
Monounsaturated	fatty	acids
Monounsaturated	fatty	acids	contain	one	double	bond	in	the	C	chain	and	are
found	in	foods	such	as	olives	and	olive	oil,	avocadoes	and	some	types	of	nuts.
Monounsaturated	fats	(from	olive	oil)	are	one	of	the	main	components	of	the
Mediterranean	diet,	which	has	been	shown	in	both	
epidemiological	studies
	and
intervention	studies
	to	reduce	risk	and	provide	benefits	in	cardiovascular
disease.	It	is	important	to	note	that	the	other	components	of	the	Mediterranean
diet	(vegetables,	fruit	and	grains)	also	play	a	role	in	good	health.
Epidemiological	studies
Studies	that	analyse	the	distribution	(who,	when	and	where)	and	determinants	of	health	and	disease	in	a
defined	population	by	observation.	Epidemiological	studies	include	ecological,	case-control,	cross-
sectional	and	retrospective	or	prospective	longitudinal	cohorts	study	designs.
Intervention	studies
Studies	in	which	researchers	make	changes	to	observe	the	effect	on	health	outcomes;	in	nutrition,	this
will	include	changes	to	diet.
Polyunsaturated	fatty	acids
Polyunsaturated	fatty	acids	(PUFAs)	contain	two	or	more	double	bonds	in	the	C
chain.	PUFAs	are	further	subdivided	according	to	the	position	of	the	first	double
bond	in	the	chain.	When	the	double	bond	occurs	on	the	third	C	atom	from	the
methyl	end,	they	are	referred	to	as	n-3	(or	omega-3)	fatty	acids.	If	the	first
double	bond	occurs	on	the	sixth	C	atom	from	the	methyl	end	they	are	referred	to
as	n-6	(or	omega-6)	fatty	acids.	The	parent	fatty	acids	of	the	n-3	and	n-6,	alpha-
linolenic	and	linoleic	acid	respectively,	are	the	essential	fatty	acids.	They	are
known	as	essential,	as	the	human	body	is	unable	to	synthesise	them,	and,	as
such,	must	be	obtained	from	the	diet.
n-6	polyunsaturated	fatty	acids

Linoleic	acid	(LA)	is	the	parent	fatty	acid	of	the	n-6	PUFA	and,	as	it	is	essential,
needs	to	be	obtained	from	the	diet.	LA	is	found	as	a	concentrated	source	in
vegetable	oils	like	
safflower	and	sunflower	oils,	and	salad	dressings	made	from
these	oils.	It	is	also	present	in	some	nuts	and	seeds.	LA	is	important,	as	it	can	be
metabolised	through	a	series	of	reactions	to	form	the	longer-chain	fatty	acid,
arachidonic	acid	(AA).	AA	can	also	be	found	in	the	diet	(in	meat).	AA	is	the
direct	precursor	of	a	diverse	group	of	hormone-like	substances	known	as
eicosanoids,	which	play	a	critical	role	in	the	inflammatory	process	and	in
thrombosis	(clot	formation).
n-3	polyunsaturated	fatty	acids
Alpha-linolenic	acid	(ALA)	is	the	parent	fatty	acid	of	the	n-3	PUFA,	and	like
LA,	it	needs	to	be	obtained	from	the	diet.	ALA	is	found	in	concentrated	sources
in	flaxseed	(linseed)	oil,	and	in	smaller	amounts	in	canola	oil.	Walnuts,	chia
seeds	and	green	leafy	vegetables	also	contain	small	amounts	of	ALA.	ALA	is
metabolised	through	the	same	chain	of	reactions	that	converts	LA	to	AA,	to	form
the	longer-chain	fatty	acids,	eicosapentaenoic	acid	(EPA)	and	docosahexaenoic
acid	(DHA).	EPA	and	DHA	are	found	in	fish,	fish	oil	and	breast	milk.	Like	AA,
EPA	is	important,	as	it	is	the	direct	precursor	of	a	diverse	group	of	hormone-like
substances	known	as	eicosanoids;	however,	eicosanoids	derived	from	EPA	are
anti-inflammatory	and	anti-thrombotic,	compared	to	those	derived	from	AA.
This	biochemical	difference	between	the	two	classes	of	fatty	acids	and	their
eicosanoids	has	been	used	therapeutically	in	the	management	of	inflammatory
diseases	such	as	rheumatoid	arthritis	and	psoriasis.	DHA	is	found	in
concentrated	amounts	in	the	cellular	phospholipids	of	brain	and	neural	tissue	of
humans	and,	as	such,	its	role	in	foetal	and	early-life	nutrition	is	critical.
Trans	fatty	acids
Trans	fatty	acids	(TFAs)	are	a	chemical	variation	of	unsaturated	fats.	In	the	
cis-
form
	(the	regular	form),	the	C	atoms	that	have	double	bonds	and	the	H	atoms
are	on	the	same	side.	In	the	
trans	form
,	the	H-atoms	are	on	opposite	sides	of	the
double-bonded	C	atoms,	so	that	they	look	and	act	more	like	saturated	fats.
Cis	form
In	a	molecule,	the	C	atoms	that	have	double	bonds	and	the	H	atoms	are	on	the	same	side.

Trans	form
In	a	molecule,	the	C	atoms	that	have	double	bonds	and	the	H	atoms	are	on	opposite	sides.
TFAs	naturally	occur	in	dairy	products	and	beef.	In	the	food	industry,
manufacturers	can	produce	TFAs	by	mixing	H	atoms	with	the	unsaturated	fatty
acids,	using	a	mixture	of	heat	and	pressure.	This	results	in	liquid	oils	being
transformed	into	a	solid	state,	making	them	very	useful	for	the	production	of
certain	foods,	such	as	spreads	and	vegetable	shortening	for	baking.	However,
these	TFAs	have	been	shown	to	be	worse	for	cardiovascular	disease	compared	to
the	equivalent	amounts	of	saturated	fat.	The	WHO	has	
recommended	that	no
more	than	one	per	cent	of	our	dietary	energy	be	derived	from	TFAs.	In	many
countries,	including	Australia,	Denmark	and	the	United	States,	there	has	been	a
reduction	in	TFA	use	in	the	food	supply,	either	through	voluntary	initiatives	or
legislation	(FSANZ	2017).
Triglycerides
Triglycerides	are	the	main	constituents	of	body	fat	(adipose	tissue)	in	animals,
including	humans.	They	are	made	up	of	a	glycerol	backbone	with	three	fatty
acids	attached.	All	triglycerides	are	composed	of	different	types	of	fatty	acids,
from	short-chain	to	long-chain.	Triglycerides	are	also	the	main	type	of	fat	we
consume	in	our	food,	from	both	vegetable	and	animal	sources.
Sterols
Sterols	are	complex	lipid	molecules,	having	four	interconnected	carbon	rings
with	a	hydrocarbon	side	chain.	The	most	familiar	type	of	sterol	is	cholesterol,
which	is	a	critical	component	of	cell	membranes	and	a	precursor	to	vitamin	D,
the	sex	hormones	(oestrogen	and	testosterone)	and	the	adrenal	hormones
(cortisol,	cortisone	and	aldosterone).
Cholesterol	can	be	synthesised	in	the	body,	and	hence	is	not	essential	in	the
diet.	Dietary	cholesterol	is	only	found	in	animal	products.	Cholesterol	in	the
body	can	be	classified	as	either	high-density	
lipoprotein
	cholesterol	(HDL-C)	or
low-density	lipoprotein	cholesterol	(LDL-C)	depending	on	whether	it	is	part	of	a
low-density	lipoprotein	(LDL)	or	high-density	lipoprotein	(HDL)	molecule.
LDL-C	is	referred	to	as	‘bad’	cholesterol,	as	LDL	takes	cholesterol	to	the	blood
vessels	where	it	can	form	into	atherosclerotic	plaques,	which	can	lead	to
blockages	and	myocardial	infarction	(heart	attack).	HDL-C	is	referred	to	as
‘good’	cholesterol,	as	HDL	takes	cholesterol	away	from	the	blood	vessels	to	the

liver,	hence	reducing	the	risk	of	a	myocardial	infarction.
Lipoprotein
A	cluster	of	lipids	attached	to	proteins	that	act	as	transport	vehicles	for	the	lipids	in	the	blood.	They	are
divided	according	to	their	density.
Plants	synthesise	many	types	of	sterols,	as	well	as	stanols,	which	are
structurally	similar	to	sterols.	Sterols	and	stanols	are	poorly	absorbed	by	the
body	and	reduce	the	absorption	of	cholesterol	from	the	gastrointestinal	system,
which	can	have	beneficial	effects	for	cholesterol	reduction.	The	food	industry
has	added	plant	sterols	to	some	types	of	margarines,	milks,	yoghurts	and	cereals,
which	can	lead	to	a	reduction	in	cholesterol	levels	if	at	least	2–3	g/day	of	plant
sterols	or	stanols	are	consumed.
Phospholipids
Phospholipids	have	a	unique	chemical	structure;	they	are	soluble	in	both	water
and	fat.	They	are	similar	to	triglycerides,	in	that	they	have	a	glycerol	backbone,
but	have	only	two	
fatty	acids	attached	to	the	glycerol—the	third	position	is	taken
up	by	a	phosphate	and	a	‘head-group’.	It	is	the	combination	of	the	head-group,
phosphate	group	and	glycerol	backbone	that	makes	phospholipids	soluble	in
water,	while	the	fatty	acids	(the	tail	group)	makes	them	soluble	in	fats.	This
feature	gives	them	a	critical	role,	both	in	the	body	and	in	the	food	industry.
Despite	their	importance,	phospholipids	make	up	only	a	small	portion	of	the	diet
(<5	per	cent)	and	are	not	essential,	as	they	can	be	synthesised	by	the	body.
Phospholipids	are	able	to	freely	move	around	the	body,	which	enables	them	to
transport	other	fats	such	as	vitamins	and	hormones.	They	are	also	a	critical
component	of	the	cellular	membranes,	where	they	form	a	phospholipid	bilayer.
The	phospholipids	assemble	into	two	layers,	with	the	hydrophilic	(water-loving)
ends	on	opposite	sides,	and	the	hydrophobic	(water-fearing)	ends	facing	each
other	on	the	inside.	This	arrangement	allows	for	the	transport	of	substances
through	the	cellular	membrane.	Interestingly,	the	fatty	acids	attached	to	the
phospholipids	in	the	cellular	membrane	will	reflect	the	dietary	intake	of	fatty
acids.
In	the	food	industry,	phospholipids	(such	as	lecithin)	allow	foods	to	be
emulsified,	as	in	the	production	of	salad	dressings,	mayonnaise,	ice-cream	and
chocolate.	Lecithin	is	found	in	eggs,	liver,	soybeans,	wheat	germ	and	peanuts.

Recommended	intakes	for	the	general	population
The	Nutrient	Reference	Values	from	the	NMHRC	have	no	set	RDI,	EAR	or	AI
for	total	fat	intake.	However,	there	are	recommendations	for	the	intake	of	the
essential	fatty	acids	(NHMRC	
et	al.
	2006).
In	the	latest	version	of	the	
Australian	Guide	to	Healthy	Eating
,	which
provides	qualitative	guidelines	on	healthy	eating	(discussed	in	
Chapter	6
),	the
recommendation	is	now	to	‘avoid	saturated	fat’,	which	has	changed	from	the
previous	recommendation	to	‘decrease	total	fat’	(NMHRC	
et	al.
	2009).	The
AMDR	from	the	NRV	states	that	fat	should	contribute	20–35	per	cent	of	your
total	energy	intake	(NHMRC	
et	al.
	2006).	This	highlights	the	importance	of
reducing	the	intake	of	foods	that	contain	saturated	fats	in	our	diet	and	replacing
them	with	monounsaturated	oils	and	foods	(olive,	canola	
oil,	avocado,	almonds)
or	polyunsaturated	oils	and	foods	(nuts,	fish,	polyunsaturated	vegetable	oils).
Table	4.1.	Recommendations	for	the	intake	of	the	essential	fatty	acids
Fatty	acid
Men	19+	years
Women	19+	years
LA
13	g/day
8	g/day
ALA
1.3	g/day
0.8	g/day
Total	LC	n-3
(DHA+EPA+DHA)
160	mg/day
90	mg/day
Source:	NHMRC	
et	al.
	2006.
CARBOHYDRATES
Carbohydrates,	like	fats	and	proteins,	are	molecules	composed	of	C,	H	and	O
atoms.	They	are	ubiquitous	in	the	diet—present	in	breads,	cereals,	grains,
legumes,	rice,	pasta,	vegetables	and	fruit,	although	dairy	is	the	only	animal
source	of	carbohydrates.	Carbohydrates	deliver	the	key	source	of	fuel	(energy)
for	the	muscles	and	body,	providing	17	kJ/g.	Glucose,	which	is	a
monosaccharide	(simple)	sugar,	is	the	exclusive	source	of	energy	for	red	blood
cells	and	provides	a	significant	portion	of	the	energy	that	is	required	for	the
brain.	Excess	glucose	in	the	blood	is	converted	to	the	storage	form	of	glucose,
glycogen.	The	average	person	stores	about	5000	kilojoules	worth	of	glucose	in
the	form	of	glycogen,	which	can	be	easily	converted	to	glucose	again	to	be	used

the	form	of	glycogen,	which	can	be	easily	converted	to	glucose	again	to	be	used
by	the	body	when	blood	glucose	levels	begin	to	drop.
Carbohydrates	have	numerous	biological	functions	in	the	body.	Aside	from
their	important	role	in	providing	energy,	they	also	have	a	structural	role.	Ribose,
which	is	a	component	of	coenzymes	and	the	backbone	of	RNA,	is	a	five-C	atom
monosaccharide,	and	the	closely	related	deoxyribose	is	a	component	of	DNA.
Carbohydrates	also	play	key	roles	in	the	immune	system	and	in	blood	clotting.
Chemical	forms	of	carbohydrate
There	are	a	wide	variety	of	carbohydrates	in	the	diet.	They	include	simple
carbohydrates	(the	sugars)	and	complex	carbohydrates	(the	starches	and	fibre).
Regardless	of	the	length	or	complexity	of	the	carbohydrate,	they	are	all
composed	of	sugar	units	(see	
Figure	4.3
).
Monosaccharides
Monosaccharides	are	composed	of	a	single	unit	of	sugar	and	are	the	most	basic
units	of	carbohydrates.	There	are	three	monosaccharides	or	‘sugars’:	glucose,
fructose	and	galactose.	The	monosaccharides	all	have	the	same	number	of	C,	H
and	O	atoms	but	differ	in	their	chemical	structure.	Monosaccharides	are	the
building	blocks	of	disaccharides	and	polysaccharides.
Glucose
Glucose	(C
6
H
12
O
6
)	serves	as	the	essential	energy	source	for	our	body;	when
people	talk	about	blood	sugar	levels,	they	are	referring	to	glucose	in	the	blood.
Most	of	the	polysaccharides	in	our	diet	are	composed	of	chains	of	glucose,	with
starch	being	the	most	common	polysaccharide.

Figure	4.3.	Chemical	structure	of	carbohydrates
Source:	Jones	&	Hodgson	2011,	p.	268–83.
Fructose
The	slightly	different	chemical	structure	of	fructose	results	in	it	being	the
sweetest-tasting	monosaccharide.	Fructose	occurs	naturally	in	some	fruits	and
honey.	Fructose	may	be	added	to	some	foods,	such	as	soft	drinks,	ready-to-eat
breakfast	cereals	and	desserts,	and	biscuit	and	cake	mixes,	through	the	use	of
high-fructose	corn	syrup.
Galactose
Galactose	is	found	in	dairy	products	and	sugar	beets,	and	is	the	least	sweet-

Galactose	is	found	in	dairy	products	and	sugar	beets,	and	is	the	least	sweet-
tasting	monosaccharide.
Disaccharides
Disaccharides	are	composed	of	two	glucose	units	and	can	be	formed	as	pairs	of
any	of	the	three	monosaccharides.	There	are	three	disaccharides,	and	each
contains	glucose	as	one	of	the	monosaccharide	components.	Sucrose,	which	is
common	table	sugar	refined	from	cane	sugar,	is	made	up	of	glucose	and
fructose.	Lactose	is	found	in	milk	and	is	composed	of	galactose	and	glucose.
Maltose,	also	known	as	malt	sugar,	is	the	disaccharide	that	is	produced	when
amylase,	an	enzyme,	breaks	down	starch.
Lactose	intolerance
A	condition	that	leads	to	the	inability	to	digest	lactose	which	results	in	bloating,	abdominal	discomfort,
gas	and	diarrhoea.
Lactose	intolerance
	is	fairly	common,	with	only	about	30	per	cent	of	adults
worldwide	being	able	to	digest	lactose.	Intestinal	cells	produce	an	enzyme	called
lactase,	which	breaks	lactose	down	into	galactose	and	glucose.	When	lactase
activity	is	low	in	people,	the	lactose	remains	undigested	in	the	intestinal	tract	and
leads	to	a	high	concentration	of	contents	in	the	intestine,	which	in	turn	draws
fluid	into	the	intestinal	lumen	and,	in	combination	with	the	proliferation	of
bacteria	that	digest	the	lactose,	leads	to	painful	bloating,	wind	and	diarrhoea.
Artificial	sweeteners
Artificial	sweeteners	are	chemicals,	found	naturally	(Stevia)	or	synthesised
industrially	(aspartame,	saccharin),	or	are	
sugar	alcohols
,	that	have	a	sweet	taste
with	either	no	kilojoules	or	reduced	kilojoules	compared	to	sugar.	This	allows
the	food	industry	to	replace	sugars	with	artificial	sweeteners	without	adding
kilojoules	to	the	product.	It	was	assumed	that	this	would	lead	to	significant
weight	loss	in	the	community	due	to	the	decreased	consumption	of	kilojoules,
but	research	shows	a	lack	of	the	predicted	effect.	Whether	this	is	due	to	people
increasing	their	consumption	of	other	foods	or	the	artificial	sweeteners	affecting
metabolism	in	other	ways	is	still	being	debated	among	researchers	(Fowler	
et	al.
2008).
Sugar	alcohols

Carbohydrates	that	have	been	chemically	altered.	They	provide	fewer	kilojoules	as	they	are	not	well
absorbed	and	may	have	a	laxative	effect.	They	include	sorbitol,	mannitol	and	xylitol.	While	they	have
fewer	kilojoules	they	can	still	lead	to	elevation	in	blood	glucose	levels	and,	hence,	can	have	an	impact	on
blood	glucose	control	in	people	with	diabetes;	as	such	they	need	to	be	considered	in	the	diet.
Complex	carbohydrates
Complex	carbohydrates	include	oligosaccharides,	which	contain	between	three
and	nine	monosaccharide	units,	and	polysaccharides,	which	contain	ten	or	more
monosaccharide	units.
Oligosaccharides
Oligosaccharides	are	found	in	a	variety	of	foods.	Starch,	which	is	found	in	a
wide	variety	of	foods,	such	as	wheat,	maize	potato	and	rice,	contains	the	α-
glucan	oligosaccharide	maltodextrin.	Maltodextrin	is	used	in	the	food	industry	as
a	sweetener,	fat	substitute	and	to	modify	the	texture	of	food	through	its
thickening	properties.
The	oligosaccharides	that	are	not	α-glucans	include	raffinose,	stachyose,
verbascose,	inulin	and	fructan,	and	are	found	in	legumes,	artichokes,	wheat	and
rye,	and	in	the	onion,	leek	and	garlic	family.	The	fructans	(including	inulin)	have
unique	properties	in	the	gastrointestinal	system	and	are	referred	to	as	
prebiotics
.
Prebiotics	remain	undigested	in	the	gastrointestinal	system	and	promote	the
growth	of	select	bacteria	that	improve	human	health.	Consumption	of	these
foods	leads	to	alteration	in	the	flora	of	the	gut,	with	a	domination	of
bifidobacteria	and	lactobacillus,	and	the	production	of	short-chain	fatty	acids
(SCFAs).	SCFAs,	also	referred	to	as	volatile	fatty	acids	(VFAs),	are	important
for	colonic	health	as	they	are	the	primary	energy	source	for	colon	cells	and	have
anti-carcinogenic	and	anti-inflammatory	properties.
Prebiotics
Food	components	that	are	not	digested	in	the	gastrointestinal	system	but	are	used	by	the	bacteria	in	the
colon	to	promote	their	growth.
Polysaccharides
Glycogen
Glycogen	is	found	in	limited	amounts	in	food,	with	a	small	amount	found	in
meat.	However,	it	is	its	role	in	the	body	that	is	critically	important	and	of	interest

meat.	However,	it	is	its	role	in	the	body	that	is	critically	important	and	of	interest
to	nutritionists,	including	sports	nutritionists.	Glycogen	is	a	secondary	form	of
energy	storage	(~5000	kJ	in	the	average	person).	When	blood	glucose	levels
increase	following	a	meal,	insulin	is	released,	which	stimulates	the	uptake	of
glucose	into	cells	and	storage	as	glycogen.	Conversely,	when	blood	glucose
levels	decrease	due	to	lack	of	dietary	intake	of	carbohydrates	or	depletion	of
blood	glucose	levels	from	exercise,	the	pancreas	releases	glucagon,	which
stimulates	the	liver	and	muscles	to	release	and	break	down	glycogen	and	release
glucose	(known	as	glycogenolysis).	Glucose	can	also	be	derived	through
gluconeogenesis,	which	is	a	metabolic	pathway	that	leads	to	glucose	formation
from	substrates	such	as	lactate,	glycerol	and	glucogenic	amino	acids.
Glycogen	is	a	highly	branched	structure,	containing	up	to	30,000	glucose	units
that	surround	a	protein	core.	Glycogen	in	the	muscle,	liver	and	fat	cells	is	stored
in	a	hydrated	form	with	three	or	four	parts	of	water	per	part	of	glycogen.	This
explains	the	dramatic	weight	loss	that	is	seen	with	low-carbohydrate	diets.	In
this	scenario,	as	blood	glucose	levels	decrease,	glycogen	is	converted	back	to
glucose	to	supply	the	brain	and	muscles	with	fuel,	which	also	releases	the	water,
hence	contributing	to	the	weight	loss	observed.
Starch
Starch	is	the	form	in	which	plants	store	glucose	to	use	for	energy.	Some
common	starches	include	amylopectin	and	amylose.	Both	of	these	contain
hundreds	to	thousands	of	glucose	units	linked	together,	as	is	the	case	with
glycogen.	Starch	is	found	in	many	different	foods	including	wheat,	rice,	lentils,
maize,	beans	and	the	tuber	vegetables.	Starch	forms	the	most	common
carbohydrate	in	our	diet.
Resistant	starch	is	one	type	of	starch	that	resists	digestion	in	the	small
intestine	and	is	fermented	in	the	large	intestine	by	bacteria	into	short-chain	fatty
acids.	These	SCFAs	are	important	as	they	protect	the	bowel	against	cancer	and
are	also	absorbed	into	the	bloodstream	and	may	be	involved	in	lowering	blood
cholesterol.	Resistant	starch	is	found	in	unripe	bananas,	potatoes	and	lentils.	In
Australia,	resistant	starch	is	also	commonly	added	to	‘high-fibre’	breads	and
cereals.	It	is	also	considered	to	be	a	form	of	insoluble	fibre,	which	is	discussed
below.
Fibre
While	there	are	many	definitions	of	fibre,	most	simply,	dietary	fibre	is	a

carbohydrate	that	is	not	digested	by	our	body.	Fibre	is	the	parts	of	the	edible
portions	of	plants	that	are	not	digested	or	absorbed	in	the	small	intestine,	that	go
on	to	be	partially	or	completely	fermented	in	the	large	intestine	and	that	promote
beneficial	physiological	effects.	These	beneficial	effects	include	laxation	of
bowel	movements,	reduced	blood	cholesterol	and	beneficial	modulation	of	blood
glucose	levels.	Dietary	fibre	can	include	polysaccharides,	oligosaccharides	and
lignin	(scientific	definition	paraphrased	from	NHMRC	
et	al.
	2006,	p.	45).	The
recommended	intake	from	the	NHMRC	for	dietary	fibre	is	30	g/day	for	men	and
25	g/day	for	women.	As	there	is	a	variety	of	types	of	fibre	in	food,	researchers
and	nutritionists	classify	them	into	two	different	groups	according	to	their
physiological	actions	in	the	body.
Soluble	fibre
Soluble	fibre	dissolves	in	water	to	form	gels.	The	process	of	dissolving	into	a	gel
slows	down	digestion.	Soluble	fibres	are	found	in	oat	bran,	barley,	nuts,	seeds,
legumes,	and	in	some	fruits	and	vegetables.	Soluble	fibre	is	commonly	linked
with	reducing	the	incidence	of	cardiovascular	disease	and	protecting	against
diabetes,	by	reducing	blood	cholesterol	levels	and	lowering	blood	glucose	levels.
Insoluble	fibre
Conversely,	insoluble	fibre	does	not	dissolve	in	water	and	is	found	in	wheat
bran,	some	vegetables	and	wholegrains.	Insoluble	fibre	absorbs	water	and
expands,	adding	bulk	to	stools	and	speeding	its	transit	through	the	intestines,
thereby	promoting	bowel	movements	and	ameliorating	constipation.
Dietary	recommendations	for	carbohydrates
The	Nutrient	Reference	Values	do	not	provide	specific	recommendations	(in
grams	per	day)	for	carbohydrates,	as	there	is	limited	data	on	which	to	base	EAR,
RDI	or	AI	requirements	for	most	age	and	gender	groups,	except	for	infancy	(0–
12	months)	where	values	are	based	on	what	the	infant	receives	from	breast	milk.
This	lack	of	recommendations	regarding	carbohydrates	for	the	majority	of	age
groups	does	not	reflect	the	value	carbohydrates	have	in	the	diet	for	providing
glucose	as	a	direct	energy	source	for	the	brain,	as	well	as	being	a	carrier	for
many	micronutrients	and	fibre,	as	discussed	above.	There	is	a	mounting	body	of
evidence	for	the	role	of	carbohydrates	in	relation	to	chronic	disease,	and	as	such,
an	acceptable	range	of	intake	between	45	and	65	per	cent	of	energy	is
recommended	(NHMRC	2013).	The	recommendation	is	that	carbohydrates
should	predominantly	be	derived	from	wholegrain,	low-energy	dense	sources

should	predominantly	be	derived	from	wholegrain,	low-energy	dense	sources
and/or	from	low	glycaemic	index	foods	(see	below).	This	is	supported	by	more
recent	evidence-based	nutrition	advice	from	the	World	Health	Organization
(WHO)	(WHO	2015),	which	recommends	limiting	intake	of	added	sugars	to	ten
per	cent	of	total	energy	intake.
Glycaemic	response,	index	and	load
Glycaemic	response
The	glycaemic	response	is	defined	by	the	length	of	time	it	takes	for	glucose	to	be
absorbed	from	foods	that	have	been	consumed,	regardless	of	whether	the	foods
contain	disaccharides	or	polysaccharides.	A	low	glycaemic	response	indicates
that	the	glucose	is	slowly	absorbed	over	a	longer	period	of	time,	resulting	in	a
steady	and	modest	rise	in	blood	glucose	levels	after	consumption	of	the	food.	A
high	glycaemic	response	indicates	that	the	glucose	is	absorbed	more	quickly	and
that	there	is	a	sharp	immediate	rise	in	blood	glucose	levels.	Other	factors	in	food
that	will	affect	the	glycaemic	response,	through	their	ability	to	delay	or	enhance
the	absorption	of	glucose,	include:
•	fat	content	(delays	gastric	emptying)
•	acid	content	(delays	gastric	emptying)
•	protein	content	(delays	gastric	emptying)
•	amount	and	types	of	fibre	(soluble	fibre	has	lower	glycaemic	index	than
insoluble	fibre)
•	type	of	starch	(depending	on	the	structure	of	the	molecule,	which	affects	the
rate	of	enzyme	digestion)
•	level	of	processing	(wholegrain	bread	has	a	lower	glycaemic	index	than
wholemeal	bread)
•	sugar	type	(fructose	and	lactose	have	lower	glycaemic	index	than	glucose).
Glycaemic	index
The	glycaemic	index	(GI)	is	a	system	that	ranks	foods	according	to	their
potential	to	increase	blood	glucose	levels,	relative	to	the	reference	food	of	white
bread	(which	is	given	a	GI	rank	of	100).	Foods	are	considered	high	GI	if	they
rank	above	70,	and	low	GI	if	they	rank	below	55.	The	GI	of	foods	is	also
affected	by	the	level	of	fat,	protein	and	fibre	in	them	and,	in	drinks,	the	amount
of	carbonation.	As	such,	it	is	important	to	appreciate	that	the	GI	does	not	always
correlate	with	the	overall	healthiness	of	foods,	as	it	does	not	consider	the	level	of
other	micronutrients,	sugar	and	saturated	fat.	For	example,	some	cola-based	soft
drinks	and	sweetened	chocolate	hazelnut	spread	have	a	lower	GI	than	pumpkin,

drinks	and	sweetened	chocolate	hazelnut	spread	have	a	lower	GI	than	pumpkin,
white	rice	and	couscous.
Glycaemic	load
Glycaemic	load	(GL)	is	a	measure	that	takes	into	account	the	amount	of
carbohydrate	in	the	portion	of	food	consumed,	together	with	the	GI	of	the	food.
A	large	intake	of	a	food	with	a	low	GI	could	result	in	a	high	glycaemic	response,
compared	to	consuming	a	small	portion	of	a	high-GI	food,	which	will	cause	a
smaller	glycaemic	response.
As	foods	are	rarely	consumed	in	isolation	or	in	set	quantities,	the	use	of	the
glycaemic	load	will	describe	the	glycaemic	response	more	accurately.	While
general	health	recommendations	for	the	population	focus	on	the	selection	of
foods	with	a	lower	GI	to	promote	
satiety
	and	confer	health	benefits,	for	the
athlete,	knowledge	of	the	GI	of	foods	is	also	important	for	implementing
nutrition	plans	to	optimise	performance.	Meals	before	exercise	focus	on
consuming	low-GI	foods	to	enable	a	sustained	release	of	glucose	in	the	blood.
However,	during	and	after	exercise,	high-GI	foods	are	preferred	to	promote	a
quicker	glycaemic	response,	allowing	the	absorbed	glucose	to	be	utilised	for
performance	and	to	replace	lost	glucose	respectively.
Satiety
The	feeling	of	fullness	and	satisfaction	after	consuming	food	which	inhibits	the	need	to	eat.
Recommended	intakes	and	health	effects	of	sugars
The	NHMRC	recommends	that	the	percentage	of	energy	derived	from
carbohydrates	(CHO)	should	be	in	the	range	of	45–65	per	cent	of	total	energy
(NHMRC	
et	al.
	2006).	For	an	average	person	consuming	8700	kJ/day,	this
equates	to	230–330	grams	of	CHO	per	day.	This	recommendation	is	not,
however,	used	to	determine	the	requirement	for	fuelling	exercise	and
performance	for	athletes,	which	will	be	discussed	in	
Chapter	10
.
In	2015,	the	WHO	recommended	that	free	sugar	intake	should	be	less	than	ten
per	cent	of	total	energy	intake,	and	that	further	health	benefits	could	be	attained
with	a	reduction	to	less	than	five	per	cent	of	dietary	energy	for	adults	and
children	(WHO	2015).	For	adults,	this	equates	to	about	20–25	g/day	for	the
average	person.	Free	sugars	refers	to	the	monosaccharides	and	disaccharides

added	to	foods	and	drinks	by	the	food	industry,	as	well	as	those	incorporated	in
food	preparation	at	home.	It	is	important	to	note	that	this	does	not	include	foods
that	naturally	contain	these	sugars,	such	as	milk,	fruit	and	some	vegetables.
Sugars	have	been	enjoyed	in	the	diet	for	many	centuries,	as	they	provide
sweetness	and	palatability	(taste)	to	many	foods;	however,	in	recent	years	the
intake	of	free	or	added	sugars	has	increased	significantly,	leading	to	excessive
intake	and	undesirable	health	outcomes.	The	impact	of	
hyperglycaemia
	(high
blood	glucose	levels)	on	cells	and	tissues	in	the	body	is	also	cause	for	concern.	It
is	often	difficult	for	the	consumer	to	ascertain	which	foods	contain	sugars,	as
they	assume	various	names	on	food	labels,	including	brown	sugar,	raw	sugar,
corn	sweeteners,	corn	syrup,	dextrose,	glucose,	maltose,	molasses,	honey,	or
high-fructose	corn	syrup.	An	indirect	impact	of	eating	large	amounts	of	added
sugars	is	that	they	may	replace	other	nutrient-rich	foods	and	result	in	nutrient
deficiencies.	Foods	such	as	lollies,	cakes,	biscuits,	doughnuts,	muffins	and
chocolate,	and	drinks	such	as	sports	drinks,	soft	drinks	and	fruit	drinks,	all	have
high	amounts	of	added	sugar	with	few	other	nutrients	in	them,	so	they	are
referred	to	as	
nutrient-poor
.	Of	particular	concern	for	the	athlete	is	the	quantity
of	sports	drinks	they	may	consume	to	enhance	exercise	performance,	in	terms	of
both	general	and	dental	health.	Even,	if	they	are	‘rinsing	and	spitting’,	the	sugar
will	stay	in	contact	with	their	teeth	for	a	period	of	time	and	can	have	a	direct
impact	on	the	development	of	dental	cavities.
Hyperglycaemia
Elevated	blood	glucose	levels.
Nutrient-poor
A	food	or	meal	that	has	low	content	of	nutrients	relative	to	energy	content.
ALCOHOL
Although	consumed	by	some	in	the	diet,	alcohol	is	defined	as	a	drug	since	it
affects	brain	function.	While	alcohol	can	have	some	potential	health	benefits	at
low	to	moderate	intakes,	the	harmful	effects	of	alcohol,	including	accidental
deaths,	violence	and	motor	vehicle	accidents,	generally	outweighs	any	benefit.
Alcohol	causes	on	average	15	deaths	and	430	hospitalisations	every	day	in
Australia	and,	in	2010,	its	misuse	was	estimated	to	cost	Australia	$36	billion

(Manning	
et	al.
	2013).	Therefore,	any	potential	health	benefit	of	alcohol	has	to
be	considered	against	the	risk	it	poses	to	individuals	and	society.	It	is	included	in
this	chapter	as	it	is	a	macronutrient,	providing	energy	to	the	body	(29	kJ/g);
however,	it	is	not	necessary	to	include	when	planning	
diets	and	nutritional
intakes	for	people,	including	athletes,	due	to	the	negative	health	and
performance	effects	(discussed	below).
Chemistry	of	alcohol
From	the	chemist’s	perspective,	alcohol	refers	to	compounds	containing	a
hydroxyl	group	(–OH),	which	include	methanol,	ethanol,	isopropyl	alcohol,
glycerol,	butanol	and	pentanol.	However,	for	most	people	the	term	‘alcohol’	is
used	to	describe	alcoholic	beverages	containing	ethanol.
Alcohol	(ethanol	or	ethyl	alcohol)	is	a	two-carbon	compound,	with	five
hydrogen	and	one	hydroxyl	group	attached	(C
2
H
5
OH).	Alcohol,	which	provides
29	kJ/g,	is	normally	consumed	in	alcoholic	beverages,	and	the	addition	of	any
added	sugars	and	fats	along	with	the	percentage	of	alcohol	must	therefore	be
taken	into	account	when	determining	the	kilojoules	consumed.	A	standard	drink
—regardless	of	the	concentration	of	ethanol	it	contains—is	defined	as	containing
10	grams	of	alcohol.
Metabolism	of	alcohol
Ethanol	is	readily	absorbed	in	the	jejunum	and	is	one	of	the	few	substances	that
is	absorbed	from	the	stomach.	It	is	distributed	evenly	throughout	the	body	fluids,
as	it	moves	across	cellular	membranes,	including	the	blood–brain	barrier,	breast
and	placenta.	As	such,	blood	and	all	organ	systems	(including	the	brain,	breast
milk	and	the	foetus)	reach	a	peak	concentration	of	alcohol	very	quickly	after
consumption.	The	majority	of	alcohol	is	metabolised	in	the	liver,	although	a
small	percentage	is	metabolised	as	it	passes	through	the	stomach	wall,	which	is
known	as	first-pass	metabolism.	A	small	amount	of	alcohol	is	passed	through	the
urine	and	some	is	excreted	in	the	breath,	which	is	why	breath	testing	can	be	used
to	detect	blood	alcohol	levels.
Alcohol	can	be	metabolised	via	three	pathways	(Zakhari	2006).	The	major
pathway	is	through	alcohol	dehydrogenase	in	the	liver.	Ethanol	is	converted	to
acetaldehyde,	followed	by	the	conversion	of	acetaldehyde	to	acetic	acid	by
aldehyde	dehydrogenase.	The	lack	of	this	enzyme	in	some	people	leads	to
alcohol	flush	reaction	(Asian	flush),	which	is	characterised	by	facial	flushing,
light-headedness,	palpitations	and	nausea.
The	second	pathway	for	ethanol	metabolism	occurs	in	the	smooth
endoplasmic	reticulum	(ER)	system,	and	is	referred	to	as	the	microsomal
ethanol-oxidising	system	(MEOS)	with	cytochrome	P450.	The	microsomes	are

ethanol-oxidising	system	(MEOS)	with	cytochrome	P450.	The	microsomes	are
induced	on	the	ER	after	chronic	alcohol	consumption	and,	like	alcohol
dehydrogenase,	ethanol	is	converted	to	acetaldehyde.
The	third	pathway	for	metabolism	of	ethanol	to	acetaldehyde	is	through	an
enzyme	called	catalase;	however	this	is	a	very	minor	pathway,	unless	alcohol	is
consumed	in	a	fasted	state.
Health	effects	of	alcohol
Ethanol	is	a	depressant	of	the	brain	and	nerve	tissues	(central	nervous	system)
and	affects	a	number	of	neurochemical	processes,	leading	to	an	increased	risk	of
suffering	mental	health	problems,	including	alcohol	dependence,	depression	and
anxiety.	Alcohol	also	impacts	on	other	physiological	processes	in	the	body.
Alcohol	increases	the	risk	of	developing	several	chronic	diseases	(high	blood
pressure,	cardiovascular	disease	and	liver	disease)	as	well	as	certain	cancers
(mouth,	throat,	oesophageal,	liver,	colorectal	and	breast).	Importantly,	if
consumed	as	part	of	after-game	celebrations,	alcohol	can	limit	athletes’	ability	to
adhere	to	nutrition	recovery	plans	(see	
Chapter	11
).
Alcohol	recommendations
Since	alcohol	does	not	provide	any	essential	nutrients,	and	because	it	is	also	a
drug,	it	is	not	listed	in	the	NRVs	(NHMRC	2009).	However,	the	NHMRC	has
provided	guidelines	for	consumption,	which	balance	the	health	risks	with	any
benefits.
Guideline	1:	For	healthy	men	and	women,	drinking	no	more	than	two	standard	drinks	on	any	day	reduces
the	lifetime	risk	of	harm	from	alcohol-related	disease	or	injury.
Guideline	2:	For	healthy	men	and	women,	drinking	no	more	than	four	standard	drinks	on	a	single
occasion	reduces	the	risk	of	alcohol-related	injury	arising	from	that	occasion.
Guideline	3:	Parents	and	carers	should	be	advised	that	children	under	15	years	of	age	are	at	the	greatest
risk	of	harm	from	drinking	and	that	for	this	age	group,	not	drinking	alcohol	is	especially	important.	For
young	people	aged	15−17	years,	the	safest	option	is	to	delay	the	initiation	of	drinking	for	as	long	as
possible.
Guideline	4:	For	women	who	are	pregnant	or	planning	a	pregnancy,	not	drinking	is	the	safest	option.	For
women	who	are	breastfeeding,	not	drinking	is	the	safest	option.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
The	macronutrients,	protein,	fat	and	carbohydrate,	play	a	key	role	in	nutrition.
They	are	metabolised	to	provide	energy	for	the	body	and	act	as	building	blocks

for	cells,	tissues	and	organs,	and/or	are	precursors	to	essential	hormones,
immune	mediators	and	enzymes.	Alcohol,	which	provides	energy,	is	not	strictly
considered	a	macronutrient	as	it	also	has	drug-like	properties	in	the	body	and	can
negatively	affect	health	as	well	as	
sporting	performance.	While	this	chapter
provides	the	background	on	macronutrients,	it	is	important	to	remember	that
people	eat	food,	not	nutrients;	the	application	of	this	nutritional	information	to
food	is	presented	in	
Chapter	6
.
Key	messages
•	Carbohydrates	are	an	important	source	of	glucose	for	exercise	and
performance,	but	also	supply	essential	B-group	vitamins	and	fibre.
•	Both	protein	and	fat	contain	essential	elements	required	to	sustain	life:	the
essential	amino	acids	and	essential	fatty	acids	respectively,	as	well	as	other
essential	vitamins.
•	The	importance	of	protein	and	fat	in	the	diet	is	reflected	by	their	inclusion	in
the	Nutrient	Reference	Values,	which	provide	recommended	intakes	for	all
apparently	healthy	Australians.
•	For	athletes	(as	discussed	in	
Chapter	10
)	these	requirements	need	to	be
modified	according	to	the	athlete’s	training	and	competition	schedule.
REFERENCES
Dehghan,	M.,	Mente,	A.,	Zhang,	X.,	et	al.,	2017,	‘Associations	of	fats	and
carbohydrate	intake	with	cardiovascular	disease	and	mortality	in	18	countries
from	five	continents	(PURE):	A	prospective	cohort	study’,	
Lancet
,	vol.	390,
no.	10107,	pp.	20150–62.
Food	Standards	Australia	and	New	Zealand,	2017,	
Trans	Fatty	Acids
,	Canberra,
ACT:	Food	Standards	Australia	and	New	Zealand,	retrieved	from
<
www.foodstandards.gov.au/consumer/nutrition/transfat/Pages/default.aspx
>.
Fowler,	S.P.,	Williams,	K.,	Resendez,	R.G.,	et	al.,	2008,	‘Fueling	the	Obesity
Epidemic?	Artificially	sweetened	beverage	use	and	long-term	weight	gain’,
Obesity
,	vol.	16,	no.	8,	pp.	1894–1900.
Hodgson,	J.M.,	2011,	‘Protein’	and	‘Digestion	of	food’,	in	Wahlqvist,	M.L.
(ed.),	
Food	and	Nutrition:	Food	and	health	systems	in	Australia	and	New
Zealand
,	3rd	edn,	Sydney,	NSW:	Allen	&	Unwin,	pp.	295–327.
Jones,	G.P.	&	Hodgson,	J.M.,	2011,	‘Carbohydrates’	and	‘Fats’,	in	Wahlqvist,

M.L.	(ed.),	
Food	and	Nutrition:	Food	and	health	systems	in	Australia	and
New	Zealand
,	3rd	edn,	Sydney,	NSW:	Allen	&	Unwin,	pp.	268–94.
Manning,	M.,	Smith,	C.	&	Mazerolle,	P.,	2013,	
The	Societal	Costs	of	Alcohol
Misuse	in	Australia
,	Trends	and	Issues	in	Crime	and	Criminal	Justice,	No.
454,	Canberra,	ACT:	Australian	Institute	of	Criminology.
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council,	Australian	Government
Department	of	Health	and	Ageing,	New	Zealand	Ministry	of	Health,	2006,
Nutrient	Reference	Values	for	Australia	and	New	Zealand
,	Canberra,	ACT:
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council.
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council,	2009,	
Australian	Guidelines	to
Reduce	Health	Risks	from	Drinking	Alcohol
,	Canberra,	ACT:	National	Health
and	Medical	Research	Council.
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council,	2013,	
Australian	Dietary
Guidelines,
	Canberra,	ACT:	National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council.
World	Health	Organization	(WHO),	2015,	
Guideline:	Sugar	Intake	for	Adults
and	Children
,	Geneva:	World	Health	Organization.
Zakhari,	S.,	2006,	‘Overview:	How	is	alcohol	metabolized	in	the	body?’,
Alcohol	Research	and	Health
,	vol.	29,	no.	4,	pp.	245–54.

Micronutrients	and	antioxidants
Gina	Trakman
Micronutrients	are	substances	that	humans	need	in	small	quantities	for	normal
physiological	function.	In	fact,	micronutrients	have	roles	in	almost	every	human
body	system.	They	are	required	for	energy	metabolism,	nervous	system	function,
bone	and	teeth	health,	blood	health,	eye	health,	fluid	balance,	and	function	as
antioxidants.	This	chapter	looks	at	the	interactive	roles	(related	to	athletic
training	and	performance)	of	micronutrients,	athletes’	micronutrient
requirements,	the	effect	of	micronutrient	deficiency	on	athletic	performance	and
the	relationship	between	oxidative	stress,	antioxidants	and	exercise.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	identify	food	sources	of	the	micronutrients	that	are	of	concern	for	athletes
•	describe	the	functions	of	B-group	vitamins,	vitamin	D,	calcium,	sodium,
potassium,	chloride,	iron,	folate,	magnesium	and	zinc	that	are	relevant	to
health,	athletic	performance	and	training

•	identify	common	micronutrient	deficiencies	among	athletes	and	describe	the
impact	of	micronutrient	deficiencies	on	athletic	performance
•	define	and	describe	the	implications	of	oxidative	stress	for	athletic	performance
•	identify	common	antioxidants	and	determine	whether	athletes	should	use
antioxidant	supplements.
MICRONUTRIENTS
It	is	important	to	consume	micronutrients	in	the	correct	amount	through	our	diet
(
Figure	5.1
),	since	both	deficiencies	and	excesses	in	intake	can	negatively	affect
general	health.	There	are	two	types	of	micronutrients—vitamins	and	minerals.
The	vitamins	were	given	their	name	because	they	are	‘vital’	to	life	and	were
once	thought	to	contain	an	amine	group	(we	now	know	they	do	not).	Vitamins
are	organic	compounds—they	are	classed	as	
water-soluble
	(B-group	vitamins
and	vitamin	C)	or	
fat-soluble
	(A,	D,	E,	K).	The	minerals	are	inorganic	chemical
elements	(such	as	magnesium)	or	compounds	of	elements	(such	as	sodium
chloride).	Minerals	are	grouped	based	on	the	quantities	that	they	are	required	in
by	the	body.	The	recommended	intake	for	the	macrominerals	(calcium,	chloride,
magnesium,	phosphorus,	potassium,	sodium,	sulphur)	exceeds	100	micrograms
per	day.	Microminerals	(copper,	iron,	zinc,	molybdenum,	manganese,	selenium,
fluoride)	are	needed	in	smaller	amounts.
Water	soluble
Compounds	that	can	be	dissolved	in	water	and	are	found	in	the	aqueous	parts	of	the	body	(or	food).
Water-soluble	vitamins	are	not	stored	in	the	body;	they	are	excreted	in	the	urine.

Figure	5.1.	Food	sources	of	micronutrients
Source:	Gina	Trakman.
Fat	soluble
Compounds	that	can	be	dissolved	in	lipids	(fats	or	oils)	and	are	found	in	the	lipids	of	the	body	(or	food).
Fat-soluble	vitamins	are	stored	in	the	body.
Determining	micronutrient	requirements
As	described	in	
Chapter	4
,	the	Nutrient	Reference	Values	(NRVs)	are
determined	based	on	a	variety	of	measures,	including	linking	metabolic	studies
with	dietary	intakes	of	those	nutrients	in	the	population.	Exercise	can	lead	to
increased	micronutrient	utilisation	and	degradation,	as	well	as	losses	of	minerals
in	sweat	and	urine.	Athletes	also	often	have	high	lean	muscle	mass	and	therefore
may	need	extra	micronutrients	for	muscle	repair	and	maintenance	(Woolf	&
Manore	2006).	However,	there	is	insufficient	evidence	to	set	specific	NRVs	for
active	individuals.	As	discussed	in	
Chapter	4
,	the	NRVs	are	intended	to	be	used
to	assess	populations	and	caution	should	be	taken	applying	them	to	evaluate	the
adequacy	of	an	individual’s	diet	(athlete	or	otherwise).	The	recommended
dietary	intake	(RDI)	covers	97–98	per	cent	of	the	healthy	population’s
requirements	and	overestimates	the	needs	of	almost	all	healthy	people;	therefore,

the	RDI	may	cover	the	potentially	increased	requirements	of	athletes.
Athletes	have	high	energy	needs	and	can	usually	avoid	nutrient	deficiencies
by	eating	balanced,	nutritious	diets.	Circumstances	in	which	athletes’	needs	may
differ	from	the	general	population,	and	where	they	are	at	risk	of	deficiency,	are
discussed	in	more	detail	throughout	this	chapter.
B	vitamins,	iodine,	chromium	and	energy	metabolism
Many	of	the	B	vitamins	(thiamin,	riboflavin,	niacin,	pantothenic	acid,	vitamin
B6	and	biotin)	are	needed	for	energy	production,	protein	and	fatty	acid	synthesis,
and	carbohydrate	metabolism.	Several	of	these	nutrients	are	cofactors	in	the
Krebs	cycle,	a	series	of	chemical	reactions	that	results	in	the	release	of	chemical
energy	(and	carbon	dioxide).	The	minerals	iodine,	chromium	and	iron	are	also
involved	in	energy	metabolism.	Iodine	is	a	structural	component	of	thyroid
hormones,	responsible	for	regulation	of	growth,	development	and	metabolic	rate,
and	chromium	is	required	for	insulin	function	and	glucose	metabolism.
During	exercise,	skeletal	muscle’s	use	of	energy	increases	up	to	a	hundredfold
(Rodriguez	
et	al.
	2009).	In	fact,	thiamin	and	riboflavin	intake	are	sometimes
reported	as	‘micrograms	per	100	kilocalories’,	because	of	their	importance	in
energy	production	
(Lukaski	2004).	Since	B	vitamins	are	widely	distributed
throughout	the	food	types	(
Figure	5.1
),	most	athletes	can	achieve	adequate
intakes	for	meeting	their	energy	needs	provided	they	eat	a	balanced	diet.
However,	deficiencies	in	riboflavin	and	vitamin	B6	have	been	reported	in	female
athletes	who	are	vegetarian	or	have	eating	disorders.
Mild	riboflavin	and	B6	deficiencies	do	not	appear	to	lead	to	diminished
aerobic	capacity.	Despite	the	lack	of	evidence	for	their	efficacy,	B	vitamin
supplements	are	often	marketed	to	active	individuals,	with	claims	that	they	are
required	in	‘times	of	physical	stress’	to	support	energy	production	and	reduce
fatigue.	Supplementation	is	unlikely	to	be	harmful	because	B	vitamins	are	water-
soluble	and	thus	are	excreted	in	urine.	However,	athletes	should	be	aware	that
there	is	an	upper	level	of	intake	(UL)	set	for	B6,	niacin	and	folate.	Excess	B6
intake	via	supplementation	can	lead	to	sensory	neuropathy,	which	often	presents
as	pain	and	numbness	in	the	hands	and	feet.	Symptoms	of	niacin	toxicity	include
itchy,	red	or	warm	skin,	dizziness,	leg	cramps,	muscle	pain	and	insomnia.	The
upper	limit	for	folate	is	set	because	excesses	in	folic	acid	can	mask	vitamin	B12
deficiencies.
Calcium,	vitamin	D	and	bone	health

Calcium,	vitamin	D	and	bone	health
Calcium	is	a	structural	component	of	bone.	It	combines	with	phosphorus	to	form
hydroxyapatite,	a	hard,	crystalline	structure	that	gives	bones	their	strength.
Vitamin	D	increases	absorption	of	calcium	and	phosphorus	from	the	gut.
Magnesium	and	fluoride	also	play	a	role	in	mineralising	bones.	Finally,	several
proteins	associated	with	bone	turnover	(for	example,	osteocalcin)	require
vitamin	K	for	their	synthesis.	One	of	the	best	dietary	sources	of	calcium	is	the
dairy	food	group,	such	as	milk,	cheese	and	yoghurt.	Phosphorus	is	found	in	most
foods	that	are	high	in	protein.	Small	amounts	of	vitamin	D	are	also	found	in
dairy,	eggs,	mushrooms	and	fortified	margarine;	however,	to	achieve	adequate
levels	of	vitamin	D,	appropriate	exposure	to	sunlight	is	needed.	Vitamin	D	exists
on	our	skin	as	7-dehydrocholesterol,	which	is	activated	upon	exposure	to
ultraviolet	B	(UVB)	rays.	Sun	exposure	recommendations	vary	from	six	minutes
per	day	(Cairns,	Australia,	summer)	to	40	minutes	per	day	(Christchurch,	New
Zealand,	winter)	(Nowson	
et	al.
	2012).
Physical	activity	does	not	appear	to	increase	calcium	or	vitamin	D	losses	or
turnover.	In	fact,	regular	exercise	(especially	resistance	activity)	increases	bone
density	by	stimulating	bone-building	mechanisms.	However,	overtraining	is
known	to	decrease	the	production	of	the	sex	hormone	oestrogen,	which	plays	a
vital	role	in	maintaining	bone	mass,	especially	in	females	(Maughan	1999).	Low
bone	mass	and	density	will	increase	the	risk	of	stress	fractures	and	thus	can	have
a	detrimental	effect	on	an	athlete’s	ability	to	perform.	Female	athletes	with
eating	disorders	are	at	particular	risk	of	stress	fractures	because	their	calcium
intake	is	likely	to	be	low,	and	it	is	probable	
that	they	have	menstrual
dysfunction,	which	is	associated	with	decreased	oestrogen	production
(Rodriguez	
et	al.
	2009).
Calcium	status	is	difficult	to	measure,	because	the	bone	acts	as	a	calcium
reservoir	and	serum	calcium	levels	are	maintained	within	a	relatively	small
window.	Vitamin	D	status	is	measured	based	on	circulating	levels	of	25-
hydroxycholecalciferol	(25(OH)	D).	Cut-off	points	for	deficiency	vary	(see
Table	5.1
).
Vitamin	D	deficiency	appears	to	be	widespread	among	athletes	and	non-
athletes	(Rodriguez	
et	al.
	2009).	In	2011–12	the	estimated	prevalence	of	vitamin
D	deficiency	in	Australian	adults	was	23	per	cent.	In	New	Zealand	in	2008–09,
the	prevalence	of	individuals	(aged	18	years	and	older)	with	vitamin	D	levels
below	the	recommended	average,	including	those	with	frank	vitamin	D
deficiency,	was	32	per	cent.	Data	specifically	on	Australian	and	New	Zealander
athletes	is	limited.	In	general,	the	athletes	at	the	greatest	risk	of	vitamin	D

deficiency	are	those	with	dark	skin,	those	who	compete	indoors,	and	those	who
live	at	high	altitudes.	All	athletes	with	diagnosed	deficiency	should	take	a
vitamin	D	supplement	as	prescribed	by	their	doctor	or	dietitian	(Powers	
et	al.
2011).	It	is	also	recommended	that	(pending	nutritional	assessment)	athletes	with
disordered	eating	and	
amenorrhea
	supplement	their	diet	with	1500	micrograms
of	calcium	and	400–800	International	Units	(IU)	of	vitamin	D	per	day.
Amenorrhea
The	absence	or	cessation	of	menstruation.	Primary	amenorrhea	is	defined	as	the	delay	of	the	first
menstruation	past	16	years	of	age.	Secondary	amenorrhea	is	defined	as	the	absence	of	three	to	six
consecutive	cycles.
Calcium	and	vitamin	D:	other	roles
Calcium	has	additional	roles	in	muscle	contraction,	nerve	conduction	and	blood
clotting.	Emerging	evidence	indicates	that	vitamin	D	also	has	a	role	in	muscle
tissue	function.	The	discovery	of	a	vitamin	D	receptor	in	skeletal	muscle
provided	a	
biologically	plausible	explanation	for	observations	that	athletic
performance	improves	in	the	summer	and	with	exposure	to	UVB	radiation.	More
recent	research	has	shown	that	vitamin	D	status	is	correlated	with	jumping
height	and	velocity,	muscle	strength	and	muscle	power.	However,	at	present
there	is	insufficient	evidence	to	set	an	‘optimal’	level	for	Serum	25(OH)	D	for
athletes,	or	to	recommend	vitamin	D	as	an	
ergogenic	aid
	(Powers	
et	al.
	2011).
Table	5.1.	Vitamin	D	status	based	on	serum	25(OH)D	(nmol/L)	levels
Sports	medicine	(Powers	
et	al.
2011)
General	population	(Nowson	
et	al.
2012)
Status
25(OH)	D	levels
(nmol/L)
Status
25(OH)	D	levels
(nmol/L)
Optimal
Not	established
NR
NR
Sufficient
100
Adequate	levels
>50
Insufficient*
50–80
Mild	deficiency
30–49
Marginal
deficiency
25–50
Moderate
deficiency
13–29

Ergogenic	aid
Any	substance	or	aid	that	improves	physical	performance.
Iron,	B12,	folate	and	blood	health
Iron	is	a	structural	component	of	
haemoglobin
,	a	protein	in	red	blood	cells	that
is	responsible	for	the	transport	of	oxygen	to	tissues.	Iron	is	also	a	cofactor	for
enzymes	that	participate	in	the	electron	transport	chain,	a	series	of	reactions	that
are	needed	for	the	synthesis	of	ATP,	the	body’s	energy	carrier	(see	
Chapter	2
).
Given	its	role	in	energy	production	and	cell	metabolism,	it	is	clear	that	iron	is	an
essential	nutrient	for	athletes,	especially	endurance	athletes.	The	iron	needs	of
athletes	can	be	more	than	70	per	cent	higher	than	the	recommendations	for	the
general	population	(Rodriguez	
et	al.
	2009).	Requirements,	however,	are	often
not	met.	
Iron	deficiency	anaemia
	(IDA)	is	the	most	common	nutrient
deficiency	among	the	general	population	and	athletes.	Athletes	who	are	at
particular	risk	of	iron	deficiency	include:
Haemoglobin
The	protein	unit	in	the	red	blood	cell	that	carries	oxygen.
Iron	deficiency	anaemia
Depletion	of	iron	levels	in	the	blood	that	leads	to	low	levels	of	haemoglobin	and	small	pale	red	blood
cells,	which	limits	their	capacity	to	carry	oxygen.
Haemolysis
The	rupture	of	red	blood	cells.
•	athletes	on	energy	restricted	diets	(most	common	reason)
•	adolescent	athletes	(periods	of	rapid	growth	increase	iron	needs)
•	vegetarian	athletes	(plant	sources	of	iron	are	poorly	absorbed)

•	vegetarian	athletes	(plant	sources	of	iron	are	poorly	absorbed)
•	female	athletes	who	are	menstruating	(iron	is	excreted	through	blood	loss)
•	athletes	who	undertake	altitude	training	(increased	production	of	red	blood
cells	requires	iron,	along	with	other	nutrients	such	as	B12	and	folate)
•	endurance	athletes,	especially	runners	(pounding	the	pavement	destroys	red
blood	cells,	often	described	as	‘foot	strike	
haemolysis
’)
•	athletes	who	are	injured	(iron	is	needed	for	wound	healing)
•	athletes	who	donate	blood.
There	are	a	range	of	biomarkers	used	to	assess	iron	status,	including	total	iron
binding	capacity	(TIBC),	serum	ferritin	(SF),	transferrin	saturation,	haemoglobin
(Hb)	and	mean	cell	volume	(MCV).	Iron	depletion	occurs	in	three	stages,	as
depicted	in	
Figure	5.2
.
Figure	5.2.	Stages	of	iron	deficiency
Source:	Image	inspired	by	Deakin	2010.
Transferrin
An	iron	transport	protein	in	the	blood.
Iron	is	carried	around	the	blood	by	a	protein	called	
transferrin
;	when	blood

iron	stores	are	low,	TIBC	increases	so	that	transferrin	can	bind	to	more	of	the
available	iron	and,	at	the	same	time,	SF	levels	drop.	When	transferrin	saturation
(serum	iron/TIBC)	is	below	16	per	cent,	the	body	is	experiencing	early
functional	iron	deficiency.	If	iron	deficiency	progresses	further,	the	body	is
unable	to	make	haemoglobin	and	the	MCV	of	red	blood	cells	decreases,	leading
to	iron	deficiency	anaemia	(IDA).
The	final	‘stage’	of	iron	deficiency,	IDA,	has	deleterious	effects	on	athletic
performance	and	also	impacts	concentration	and,	therefore,	the	ability	to	make
tactical	decisions	during	play	(Deakin	2010).	Correction	of	IDA	with
supplements	increases	
work	capacity
,	reduces	heart	rate	and	decreases	lactate
concentrations	(Rodriguez	
et	al.
	2009).	Supplementation	in	individuals	with
early	functional	iron	deficiency	(stage	2)	may	also	improve	work	capacity,	but
research	results	regarding	this	are	mixed.	Reversing	iron	deficiency	can	take
time	(3–6	months)	and	requires	supplementation.	Unfortunately,	iron
supplements	are	often	poorly	tolerated	by	the	gut.	Therefore,	at-risk	athletes
should	be	regularly	screened	(via	blood	test)	and	focus	on	preventing	the
development	of	IDA	by	obtaining	adequate	iron	from	foods.	Red	meat,	chicken,
fish	and	eggs	are	the	best	dietary	sources	of	iron.	Wholegrains,	leafy	greens,	nuts
and	seeds	also	provide	some	iron.	These	vegetarian	sources	should	be	combined
with	vitamin	C	to	increase	absorption.	Consumption	of	tannins	(tea,	coffee,
wine)	and	calcium	should	be	avoided	when	eating	iron-rich	foods	because	they
inhibit	iron	absorption.
Work	capacity
The	total	amount	of	work	a	person	can	sustain	over	a	defined	period	of	time.
Sports	anaemia
Also	referred	to	as	dilutional	anaemia	or	pseudo-anaemia,	occurs	when	haemoglobin	concentration	is
‘diluted’	due	to	increased	volume	of	the	plasma	(the	liquid	component	of	blood).	Plasma	volume
generally	increases	in	response	to	exercise;	therefore,	this	‘anaemia’	is	transient	and	often	fluctuates	with
training	loads.	Unlike	the	other	anaemias	described	in	this	chapter,	sports	anaemia	does	not	impair
athletic	performance	or	respond	to	nutritional	changes.
Vitamin	B12	and	folate	are	needed	for	the	formation	of	red	blood	cells	and
have	roles	in	protein	synthesis,	tissue	repair	and	nervous	system	functioning.
These	nutrients	are	often	low	in	the	diets	of	vegetarians,	females	and	energy
restricting	athletes.	Inadequate	intake	of	folate	and	vitamin	B12	will	lead	to
folate	deficiency	anaemia	and	B12	deficiency	anaemia	respectively.	These
anaemias	are	also	associated	with	decreased	endurance	performance	(Lukaski

anaemias	are	also	associated	with	decreased	endurance	performance	(Lukaski
2004).	Folate	is	found	in	green	leafy	vegetables	and	wholegrains;	B12	is	found
exclusively	in	animal	foods—meat,	chicken,	fish,	eggs	and	dairy.
Zinc	and	magnesium
Zinc	and	magnesium	are	cofactors	for	several	enzymes	involved	in	energy
metabolism.	Zinc	also	has	roles	in	growth,	building	and	repairing	muscle	tissue,
and	immune	status—all	relevant	functions	for	athletes.	Magnesium	is	needed	for
immune	function,	protein	synthesis	and	muscle	contraction.	Athletes	may
experience	magnesium	and	zinc	loss	through	sweat,	urine	and	faeces,	but
mineral	losses	are	difficult	to	measure	accurately.	Studies	comparing	the
magnesium	status	of	athletes	and	non-athletes	have	concluded	that	they	are
similar.	In	contrast,	endurance	athletes	have	been	found	to	have	impaired	zinc
status	in	several	studies	(Lukaski	2004).	Zinc	and	magnesium	deficiencies	occur
predominantly	among	vegetarian,	female	and	weight	class	athletes.	Zinc
deficiency	can	impair	athletic	performance	by	reducing	cardiorespiratory
function,	muscle	strength	and	endurance.	Likewise,	magnesium	deficiency	has
been	reported	to	increase	oxygen	requirements	for	performing	submaximal
activities	(Rodriguez	
et	al.
	2009).
Magnesium	supplementation	to	correct	pre-existing	deficiencies	has	been
shown	to	improve	performance.	On	the	other	hand,	there	is	limited	data	to
confirm	a	beneficial	effect	of	zinc	supplementation	on	performance.	Zinc	may
have	an	indirect	effect	because	it	has	been	shown	to	enhance	immune	function
and,	therefore,	could	protect	athletes’	ability	to	train	(Kreider	
et	al.
	2010).	In
general,	however,	single-dose	zinc	supplements	are	not	recommended	because
they	can	interfere	with	absorption	of	iron	and	calcium	and	lead	to	zinc	toxicity.
Potassium,	sodium,	chloride	and	fluid	balance
Sodium	is	the	main	
cation
	in	extracellular	fluid,	potassium	the	main	cation	in
intracellular	fluid,	and	chloride	the	main	
anion
	in	intracellular	fluid.	Together,
these	
electrolytes
	maintain	fluid	balance.	Sodium	and	phosphorus	also	act	to
ensure	acid–base	balance	of	body	fluids	and	both	sodium	and	potassium	have
additional	roles	in	nerve-impulse	transmission	and	muscle	contraction.	Athletes
experience	electrolyte	losses	through	sweat	and,	therefore,	have	higher	sodium
and	chloride	needs	than	the	general	population	(Rodriguez	
et	al.
	2009).

Cations
Positively	charged	ions,	which	means	they	have	gained	electrons.
Anions
Negatively	charged	ions,	which	means	they	have	lost	electrons.
Electrolytes
Salts	that	dissolve	in	water	and	disassociate	into	charged	particles	called	ions.
Sodium	and	chloride	are	often	found	together	in	foods	as	sodium	chloride
(salt).	Table	salt,	soy	sauce	and	other	commercial	sauces,	processed	foods,	meat,
milk	and	bread	are	all	sources	of	sodium	chloride.	The	mean	sodium	intake	in
Australians	aged	19–30	exceeds	the	UL	recommended	for	the	general	population
(ABS	2014).	Therefore,	many	athletes	meet	their	increased	salt	needs
incidentally.	However,	for	athletes	participating	in	endurance	events,	sports
drinks	containing	electrolytes	are	frequently	recommended.	This	is	discussed	in
more	detail	in	
Chapter	11
.	Most	athletes	can	meet	their	potassium	needs	through
regular	food	intake	by	including	potassium-rich	foods	such	as	fruit,	vegetables
and	dairy.
Antioxidants
Antioxidants	prevent	oxidative	stress	and	have	been	extensively	studied	for	their
potential	ability	to	reduce	the	
pathogenesis
	of	multiple	chronic	diseases.
Antioxidants	have	received	much	media	attention,	and	most	people	have	heard
of	them	at	some	time	or	another.	Vitamin	C	(found	in	fruits	and	vegetables)	and
vitamin	E	(found	in	oils,	nuts,	seeds	and	wheat	germ)	have	antioxidant	functions.
Vitamin	E	is	fat	soluble	and,	therefore,	acts	within	cell	membranes	to	prevent
polyunsaturated	fatty	acids	(PUFAs)	and	other	phospholipids	from	being
oxidised.	Vitamin	C	regenerates	vitamin	E.	After	vitamin	E	has	performed	its
antioxidant	function,	it	will	have	an	unpaired	electron.	Vitamin	C	regenerates
vitamin	E	by	donating	an	electron	to	(re)	neutralise	vitamin	E.	Several	other
compounds	found	in	foods	also	have	antioxidant	functions,	including:

Pathogenesis
The	biological	mechanism	that	leads	to	the	development	of	diseases.
•	lycopene	(found	in	tomatoes)
•	beta-carotene	(found	in	orange	and	green	fruits	and	vegetables)
•	curcumin	(found	in	turmeric)
•	resveratrol	(found	in	grapes	and	wine)
•	quercetin	(found	in	fruits	and	vegetables)
•	isoflavones	(found	in	soy).
Endogenous
Substances	that	originate	or	derive	from	within	the	body,	in	this	case	from	body	stores.
Free	radicals
Also	referred	to	as	reactive	oxygen	species,	free	radicals	are	highly	reactive	chemical	species	that	can
damage	cellular	components,	resulting	in	cell	injury	or	death.	They	are	usually	produced	by	oxidation
and	contain	an	unpaired	electron.
Antioxidants
Substances	that	decrease	free	radical	damage	by	donating	an	electron	to	‘neutralise’	free	radicals.
Oxidative	stress
Occurs	when	the	body’s	production	of	free	radicals	occurs	at	a	rate	higher	than	the	body’s	ability	to
neutralise	them.
In	addition	to	these	food	sources,	the	body	has	several	
endogenous
antioxidant	systems.	Selenium	and	the	amino	acids	cysteine	and	taurine	have
roles	in	these	systems,	as	donors	for	thiol-based	antioxidants.
Antioxidant	supplements	and	antioxidant	rich	foods	(for	example,
Montmorency	cherry	and	exotic	berries	such	as	goji	berries)	are	popular	among
athletes,	but	their	use	is	controversial.	The	arguments	for	and	against	antioxidant
supplementation	in	athletes	are	outlined	below.

supplementation	in	athletes	are	outlined	below.
In	addition	to	being	studied	for	their	potential	to	reduce	oxidative	stress,	the
effect	of	antioxidant	supplementation	on	performance	and	recovery	has	been
assessed.	There	is	limited	evidence	to	support	their	use	in	these	situations.
Although	antioxidant	supplements	are	not	(generally)	recommended,	a	diet
rich	in	antioxidants	is	encouraged.	Practical	tips	for	increasing	antioxidants
include	the	following.
Table	5.2.	Summary	of	functional	roles	of	micronutrients	related	to	athletic
performance
Energy,
macronutrient
metabolism
and
macronutrient
synthesis
Muscle
contraction
Fluid
balance
Bone
health
Blood
health
Immune
function
Thiamin	(B1)
Riboflavin
(B2)	Niacin
(B3)
Pantothenic
acid	(B5)
Biotin
Pyridoxine(B6)
Iodine
Chromium
Iron	Zinc
Magnesium
Magnesium
Sodium
Sodium
Potassium
Chloride
Phosphorus
Vitamin	D
Vitamin	K
Calcium
Phosphorus
Magnesium
Vitamin
B12
Vitamin
K	Iron
Folate
Vitamin
C	Iron
Zinc
•	Go	for	2&5—aim	to	have	two	servings	of	fruit	and	five	of	vegetables	daily.
Add	fruit	to	breakfast	cereals	and	
choose	it	as	a	snack.	Add	vegetables	to	main
meals	(grate	into	sauces,	put	on	sandwiches)	and	snack	on	cherry	tomatoes,
carrots,	celery	and	cucumber.
•	Choose	wholegrains	over	processed	grains.
•	Swap	some	meat/chicken/fish	meals	for	tofu	and	lentils.
•	Snack	on	nuts.
•	Choose	dark	chocolate	as	a	sweet	treat.

SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
Micronutrients	(vitamins,	minerals,	antioxidants)	are	needed	in	small	amounts
for	normal	physiological	functioning.	They	are	distributed	throughout	the	food
supply	and	have	roles	relevant	to	athletic	performance,	including	energy
production,	maintenance	of	bone	health,	control	of	fluid	balance,	muscle
contraction	and	nerve	impulse	control.
Key	messages
•	There	is	insufficient	evidence	to	set	specific	quantitative	micronutrient
recommendations	for	athletes	which	differ	from	the	general	recommendations.
•	Athletes	have	increased	needs	for	iron,	sodium	and	potassium	and	may	also
have	increased	B	vitamin,	magnesium	and	zinc	requirements,	but	this	is	yet	to
be	demonstrated	in	research	studies.
•	Most	athletes	can	meet	their	micronutrient	needs	by	consuming	a	balanced	diet
that	contains	adequate	energy	(kilojoules).
•	Certain	athletes	are	at	risk	of	nutrient	deficiency.	Common	risk	factors	include
being	female,	being	vegetarian,	participating	in	endurance	activities,	being	on
an	energy	restricted	diet	and	disordered	eating	behaviours.
•	The	most	common	deficiency	among	athletes	is	iron	deficiency;	low	serum
levels	of	magnesium,	zinc,	vitamin	D	and	low	intakes	of	riboflavin	and	vitamin
B6	are	also	reported	among	athletic	populations.
•	Deficiencies	should	be	addressed	by	altering	dietary	intake.	In	most	instances,
micronutrient	supplementation	is	also	warranted	and	has	been	shown	to
improve	performance.	Supplementation	should	be	based	on	blood	test	results
and	nutritional	analysis	and	be	supervised	by	qualified	professionals.
•	Micronutrient	intakes	(through	food	or	supplements)	above	physiological
requirements	are	very	unlikely	to	have	any	ergogenic	effects.
•	Antioxidant	nutrients	(vitamins	A,	C,	E	and	selenium)	and	food	polyphenols
have	received	much	attention	for	their	potential	ability	to	enhance	recovery
from	exercise	by	reducing	oxidative	stress.	At	present,	the	consensus	is	that
antioxidant	supplementation	should	be	avoided	due	to	lack	of	evidence	and	the
potential	adverse	effects	on	adaptations	to	training.
REFERENCES
Australian	Bureau	of	Statistics	(ABS),	2014,	
Australian	Health	Survey:

Nutrition	First	Results—Foods	and	Nutrients	2011–12
	[Online],	Australian
Bureau	of	Statistics,
<
http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mf/4364.0.55.010
>,	accessed	20
July	2017.
Deakin,	V.,	2010,	‘Prevention,	detection	and	treatment	of	iron	depletion	in
athletes’,	in	Burke,	L.M.	&	Deakin,	V.	(eds),	
Clinical	Sports	Nutrition
,
Australia:	McGraw-Hill	Education.
Kreider,	R.B.,	Wilborn,	C.D.,	Taylor,	L.	et	al.,	2010,	‘ISSN	exercise	&	sport
nutrition	review:	Research	&	recommendations’,	
Journal	of	the	International
Society	of	Sports	Nutrition
,	vol.	7,	p.	7.
Lukaski,	H.C.,	2004,	‘Vitamin	and	mineral	status:	Effects	on	physical
performance’,	
Nutrition
,	vol.	20,	no.	7-8,	pp.	632–44.
Maughan,	R.J.,	1999,	‘Role	of	micronutrients	in	sport	and	physical	activity’,
British	Medical	Bulletin
,	vol.	55,	no.	3,	pp.	683–90.
Nowson,	C.A.,	McGrath,	J.J.,	Ebeling,	P.R.,	et	al.,	2012,	‘Vitamin	D	and	health
in	adults	in	Australia	and	New	Zealand:	A	position	statement’,	
Medical
Journal	of	Australia
,	vol.	196,	no.	11,	pp.	686–7.
Powers,	S.,	Nelson,	W.B.	&	Larson-Meyer,	E.,	2011,	‘Antioxidant	and	vitamin
D	supplements	for	athletes:	Sense	or	nonsense?’,	
Journal	of	Sports	Sciences
,
vol.	29,	suppl.	1,	pp.	S47–55.
Rodriguez,	N.R.,	DiMarco,	N.M.	&	Langley,	S.,	2009,	‘Position	of	the	American
Dietetic	Association,	Dietitians	of	Canada,	and	the	American	College	of
Sports	Medicine:	Nutrition	and	athletic	performance’,	
Journal	of	the
American	Dietetic	Association
,	vol.	109,	no.	3,	pp.	509–27.
Woolf,	K.	&	Manore,	M.M.,	2006,	‘B-vitamins	and	exercise:	Does	exercise	alter
requirements?’,	
International	Journal	of	Sport	Nutrition	&	Exercise
Metabolism
,	vol.	16,	no.	5,	pp.	453–84.

Translating	nutrition:	From	nutrients
to	foods
Adrienne	Forsyth
The	preceding	chapters	have	provided	us	with	an	overview	of	the	nutrients
needed	for	good	health	and	performance.	We	now	understand	why	we	need
these	nutrients;	however,	planning	a	nutritious	diet	is	a	complex	task	because	we
consume	these	nutrients	as	part	of	whole	foods	within	the	context	of	a	diet
influenced	by	a	range	of	sociocultural,	environmental	and	individual	factors.	The
factors	that	influence	our	diet	will	be	discussed	in	later	chapters.	In	this	chapter,
we	will	explore	how	to	meet	our	nutrient	requirements	through	food	and	identify
good	food	choices	to	meet	the	macro-and	micronutrient	requirements	of	athletes.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	understand	the	rationale	for	food-based	dietary	recommendations

•	describe	how	whole	food	diets	can	be	used	to	meet	individual	nutrient
requirements	•	identify	food	sources	of	macro-and	micronutrients	required	by
athletes	•	recommend	specific	foods	and	food	combinations	to	meet	individual
nutrient	requirements.
FOOD	IS	MADE	UP	OF	MORE	THAN	NUTRIENTS
Chapters	4
	and	
5
	have	described	the	role	of	a	number	of	nutrients	for	health	and
performance.	It	is	tempting	to	try	to	put	together	a	magic	bullet	nutrient
supplement	to	meet	these	needs.	Indeed,	we	can	obtain	all	of	our	micronutrient
requirements	from	nutrient	supplements.	However,	when	we	aim	to	consume	our
nutrient	requirements	in	the	form	of	food,	we	gain	more	than	we	would	if	we
consumed	supplements	alone.
There	are	many	benefits	of	consuming	nutrients	as	part	of	whole	foods	rather
than	from	supplements.	To	begin	with,	we	know	that	some	nutrients	are
absorbed	better	as	part	of	a	whole	food.	For	example,	the	lactose	in	milk	may
assist	with	calcium	absorption.	Foods	can	also	have	a	
synergistic
	effect	in
promoting	nutrient	absorption	and	function.	When	plant	sources	of	iron,	such	as
beans,	are	consumed	with	a	source	of	vitamin	C,	such	as	orange	juice,	the
vitamin	C	assists	with	iron	absorption	and	therefore	increases	its	availability	in
the	body.	Many	nutrients	are	also	more	effective	when	consumed	as	part	of	a
whole	food	diet.	Omega-3	fatty	acids	derived	from	eating	fish	are	often	found	to
be	more	effective	in	preventing	conditions	such	as	
ischaemic	heart	disease
	than
omega-3	supplements	alone.	Whole	foods	also	often	bundle	nutrients	in	a
convenient	package.	For	example,	dairy	foods	such	as	milk	contain	not	only
calcium	but	also	magnesium	and	phosphorus,	which	work	with	calcium	to	help
build	and	maintain	strong	bones.	Alongside	vitamins	and	minerals,	foods
provide	a	range	of	other	compounds	with	beneficial	actions,	such	as	fibre	and
phytonutrients
.	Foods	also	often	conveniently	provide	nutrients	where	they	are
needed.	Wholegrains	are	good	sources	of	B	vitamins,	and	B	vitamins	are	needed
to	help	derive	energy	from	the	carbohydrates	in	wholegrains.	Vitamin	E	is	found
in	plant	oils	and	helps	to	prevent	oxidisation	of	the	oil	and	minimise	damage
from	
free	radicals
	in	our	bodies.	Whole	foods	also	have	the	added	benefit	of
providing	pleasure,	creating	an	opportunity	for	
socialisation	and	promoting	rest
and	relaxation	during	eating.	On	the	other	hand,	supplements	can	be	expensive,
run	the	risk	of	
toxicity
	with	overconsumption,	and	may	contain	unwanted
compounds	or	contaminants,	which	is	particularly	problematic	for	many
competitive	athletes.

Synergistic
The	interaction	of	two	or	more	substances,	in	this	case	nutrients,	to	produce	a	combined	beneficial	effect
that	is	greater	than	the	sum	of	its	individual	effects.
Ischaemic	heart	disease
Also	called	coronary	artery	disease,	a	group	of	diseases	including	angina,	myocardial	infarction	and
sudden	coronary	death.	The	pathogenesis	of	this	disease	is	due	to	the	restriction	of	blood	flow	in	the
coronary	arteries	that	results	in	reduced	blood	flow,	and	hence	oxygen	supply,	to	the	heart	muscle.
Phytonutrients
Substances	found	in	plant	foods	that	have	a	beneficial	health	effect,	such	as	lycopene	in	tomatoes	and
anthocyanin	in	blueberries.
Toxicity
Occurs	when	nutrients	are	consumed	in	very	high	amounts	and	cause	health	problems.	For	example,	very
high	levels	of	vitamin	A	consumed	by	pregnant	women	have	been	linked	to	birth	defects.	Toxicity	is
most	likely	to	occur	with	overconsumption	of	fat-soluble	vitamins	and	some	minerals.
Now,	with	an	understanding	of	the	importance	of	consuming	our	nutrients	as
part	of	a	whole	food	diet,	we	need	to	learn	what	foods	to	consume	to	meet	our
nutrient	requirements.
DIETARY	GUIDELINES
Accredited	Practising	Dietitians
Health	professionals	who	have	completed	a	university	degree	in	dietetics	and	have	been	accredited	by	the
Dietitians	Association	of	Australia	to	provide	a	range	of	nutrition-related	services,	including
individualised	medical	nutrition	therapy.	In	New	Zealand,	these	professionals	are	known	as	Registered
Dietitians.

Accredited	Sports	Dietitians
Accredited	Practising	Dietitians	who	have	completed	extra	training	and	practical	experience	in	sports
nutrition	and	are	accredited	by	Sports	Dietitians	Australia	to	provide	nutrition	services	for	athletes.
Australia	and	New	Zealand	each	have	their	own	evidence-based	dietary
guidelines	designed	to	help	the	population	make	food	choices	that	will	meet	their
dietary	requirements	and	promote	good	health.	The	Australian	Dietary
Guidelines	(NHMRC	2013)	and	the	New	Zealand	Eating	and	Activity
Guidelines	(Ministry	of	Health	2015)	provide	broad	public	health
recommendations	that	have	been	developed	by	expert	panels	based	on	the
analysis	of	data	from	published	research.	The	advice	in	these	guidelines	is
intended	for	healthy	individuals	to	maintain	good	health.	Individuals	with
medical	conditions	that	require	specialised	medical	nutrition	therapy	should	seek
advice	from	an	
Accredited	Practising	Dietitian
.	Athletes	with	specific	dietary
requirements	may	use	the	dietary	guidelines	as	a	starting	point	and	should	seek
individualised	advice	from	an	
Accredited	Sports	Dietitian
.
Box	6.1:	Australian	Dietary	Guidelines
GUIDELINE	1
To	achieve	and	maintain	a	healthy	weight,	be	physically	active	and	choose
amounts	of	nutritious	food	and	drinks	to	meet	your	energy	needs.
•	Children	and	adolescents	should	eat	sufficient	nutritious	foods	to	grow
and	develop	normally.	They	should	be	physically	active	every	day	and
their	growth	should	be	checked	regularly.
•	Older	people	should	eat	nutritious	foods	and	keep	physically	active	to	help
maintain	muscle	strength	and	a	healthy	weight.
GUIDELINE	2
Enjoy	a	wide	variety	of	nutritious	foods	from	these	five	groups	every	day:	•
plenty	of	vegetables,	including	different	types	and	colours,	and
legumes/beans	•	fruit
•	grain	(cereal)	foods,	mostly	wholegrain	and/or	high-cereal	fibre	varieties,
such	as	breads,	cereals,	rice,	pasta,	noodles,	polenta,	couscous,	oats,

such	as	breads,	cereals,	rice,	pasta,	noodles,	polenta,	couscous,	oats,
quinoa	and	barley	•	lean	meats	and	poultry,	fish,	eggs,	tofu,	nuts	and
seeds,	and	legumes/beans	•	milk,	yoghurt,	cheese	and/or	their	alternatives,
mostly	reduced	fat	(reduced	fat	milks	are	not	suitable	for	children	under
the	age	of	two	years).
And	drink	plenty	of	water.
GUIDELINE	3
Limit	intake	of	foods	containing	saturated	fat,	added	salt,	added	sugars	and
alcohol.
a.	Limit	intake	of	foods	high	in	saturated	fat	such	as	many	biscuits,	cakes,
pastries,	pies,	processed	meats,	commercial	burgers,	pizza,	fried	foods,
potato	chips,	crisps	and	other	savoury	snacks.
•	Replace	high-fat	foods	which	contain	predominantly	saturated	fats	such	as	butter,	cream,
cooking	margarine,	coconut	and	palm	oil	with	foods	that	contain	predominantly	polyunsaturated
and	monounsaturated	fats	such	as	oils,	spreads,	nut	butters/pastes	and	avocado.
•	Low-fat	diets	are	not	suitable	for	children	under	the	age	of	two	years.
b.	Limit	intake	of	foods	and	drinks	containing	added	salt.
•	Read	labels	to	choose	lower-sodium	options	among	similar	foods.
•	Do	not	add	salt	to	foods	in	cooking	or	at	the	table.
c.	Limit	intake	of	foods	and	drinks	containing	added	sugars	such	as
confectionery,	sugar-sweetened	soft	drinks	and	cordials,	fruit	drinks,
vitamin	waters,	energy	and	sports	drinks.
d.	If	you	choose	to	drink	alcohol,	limit	intake.	For	women	who	are
pregnant,	planning	a	pregnancy	or	breastfeeding,	not	drinking	alcohol	is
the	safest	option.
GUIDELINE	4
Encourage,	support	and	promote	breastfeeding.
GUIDELINE	5
Care	for	your	food;	prepare	and	store	it	safely.
Source:	NHMRC	2013.

Box	6.2:	New	Zealand	Eating	and	Body	Weight	Statements
EATING	STATEMENT	1
Enjoy	a	variety	of	nutritious	foods	every	day,	including:
•	plenty	of	vegetables	and	fruit
•	grain	foods,	mostly	wholegrain	and	those	naturally	high	in	fibre
•	some	milk	and	milk	products,	mostly	low	and	reduced	fat
•	some	legumes,	nuts,	seeds,	fish	and	other	seafood,	eggs,	poultry	and/or
red	meat	with	the	fat	removed.
EATING	STATEMENT	2
Choose	and/or	prepare	foods	and	drinks:
•	with	unsaturated	fats	(canola,	olive,	rice	bran	or	vegetable	oil	or
margarine)	instead	of	saturated	fats	(butter,	cream,	lard,	dripping,	coconut
oil)	•	that	are	low	in	salt	(sodium);	if	using	salt,	choose	iodised	salt
•	with	little	or	no	added	sugar
•	that	are	mostly	‘whole’	and	less	processed.
EATING	STATEMENT	3
Make	plain	water	your	first	choice	over	other	drinks.
EATING	STATEMENT	4
If	you	drink	alcohol,	keep	your	intake	low.	Stop	drinking	alcohol	if	you
could	be	pregnant,	are	pregnant	or	are	trying	to	get	pregnant.
EATING	STATEMENT	5
Buy	or	gather,	prepare,	cook	and	store	food	in	ways	that	keep	it	safe	to	eat.

BODY	WEIGHT	STATEMENT
Making	good	choices	about	what	you	eat	and	drink	and	being	physically
active	are	also	important	to	achieve	and	maintain	a	healthy	body	weight.
Being	a	healthy	weight:
•	helps	you	to	stay	active	and	well
•	reduces	your	risk	of	developing	Type	2	diabetes,	cardiovascular	disease
and	some	cancers.
If	you	are	struggling	to	maintain	a	healthy	weight,	see	your	doctor	and/or
your	community	health	care	provider.
Source:	Ministry	of	Health	2015.
In	addition	to	these	broad	statements,	the	dietary	guidelines	provide	practical
tools	to	assist	individuals	in	putting	together	a	diet	that	is	consistent	with	the
dietary	guidelines	and	meets	their	nutrient	requirements.	The	Australian	Guide
to	Healthy	Eating	and	the	New	Zealand	Serving	Size	Advice	build	upon	the
Nutrient	Reference	Values	(NHMRC	
et	al.
	2006)	to	provide	practical	food
selection	advice.	These	food	selection	guides	are	developed	based	around	groups
of	foods	with	similar	key	nutrient	profiles,	such	as	wholegrains.	A	food
modelling	system	is	then	used	to	determine	how	much	of	each	food	group
should	be	consumed	to	meet	an	individual’s	nutrient	requirements	and	only
enough	energy	to	meet	the	needs	of	the	smallest	and	least	active	person.	This
recommended	eating	pattern	is	called	a	
foundation	diet
,	and	it	meets	one’s
minimum	nutrient	needs.	Athletes	often	expend	more	energy	and	therefore	have
higher	energy	requirements,	so	they	may	need	to	consume	more	serves	of	each
of	the	food	groups	to	meet	their	energy	and	nutrient	requirements.	This	complete
diet	is	known	as	a	
total	diet
.	Total	diets	should	be	developed	for	individual
athletes	based	on	their	size,	sex,	body	composition,	activity	levels,	individual
preferences	and	sport-specific	requirements.	For	example,	some	athletes	may
prefer	or	require	more	carbohydrate-rich	wholegrain	foods,	while	others	require
more	protein-rich	meat	and	alternatives.	The	food	selection	guides	can	be	found
online	at	the	Australian	government’s	Eat	for	Health	website
(
www.eatforhealth.gov.au/
).
Foundation	diet

A	food-modelling	system	that	determines	how	much	of	each	food	group	should	be	consumed	to	meet	an
individual’s	nutrient	requirements	and	only	enough	energy	to	meet	the	needs	of	the	smallest	and	least
active	person.
Total	diet
The	dietary	pattern	that	is	determined,	using	the	Foundation	Diet	as	the	basis,	to	account	for	additional
energy	and	nutrient	needs	for	an	individual.
Many	countries	have	their	own	dietary	guidelines	and	food	selection	guides,
based	on	their	own	best	evidence	and	culturally	appropriate	foods.	You	will
learn	more	about	culturally	diverse	dietary	patterns	in	
Chapter	25
.

Figure	6.1.	Australian	Guide	to	Healthy	Eating
Source:	NHMRC	2013.

FOOD	SOURCES	OF	MACRONUTRIENTS
Carbohydrates	are	found	in	foods	in	the	form	of	starch	or	sugar.	Starchy	foods
include:	•	breads,	rolls,	wraps,	bagels,	muffins	and	crumpets
•	breakfast	cereals	and	porridge
•	rice,	pasta	and	noodles
•	potato,	sweet	potato	and	corn.
Sugary	foods	include:
•	lollies
•	fruit	(in	the	form	of	fructose)
•	milk	(in	the	form	of	lactose)
•	table	sugar,	honey	and	maple	syrup.
Some	carbohydrate	foods	provide	more	nutrition	than	others.	Lollies	and
added	sugars	can	provide	enjoyment	and	increase	the	palatability	of	foods,	but
are	not	health-promoting	as	they	contain	no	or	very	little	nutrition	(these	foods
are	referred	to	as	
energy	dense
	and	nutrient-poor).	For	good	health,	it	is
recommended	that	we	consume	foods	that	fit	within	the	food	groups	in	the	food
selection	guides	and	choose	the	higher	fibre	options,	such	as	wholegrain	bread,
brown	rice	and	potatoes	in	their	skins.	For	athletes,	the	timing	of	fibre	intake	is
important;	high-fibre	foods	should	be	avoided	in	the	hours	leading	up	to	a
training	session	to	avoid	gastrointestinal	discomfort.	Some	people	also
experience	unpleasant	symptoms,	such	as	gas,	bloating,	constipation	and
diarrhoea,	after	consuming	some	types	of	carbohydrates.	Fermentable
oligosaccharides,	disaccharides,	monosaccharides	and	polyols	(FODMAPs)	are
poorly	absorbed	by	some	individuals	and	can	cause	these	unpleasant	symptoms.
For	others,	these	symptoms	may	occur	following	consumption	of	gluten-
containing	foods.	Gluten	is	a	protein	contained	in	some	carbohydrate-rich	foods,
such	as	wheat-based	breads	and	cereals.	Strategies	for	managing	FODMAP
intolerance	and	other	gastrointestinal	problems	will	be	discussed	in	
Chapter	23
.
Energy	dense
Foods	that	contain	high	levels	of	energy	with	little	or	no	nutrients.
Protein	is	found	predominantly	in	foods	derived	from	animals.	Meat,	poultry,
fish,	eggs	and	dairy	products	are	all	good	sources	of	protein.	However,

individuals	may	limit	their	intake	of	animal	sources	of	protein	due	to	the	cost,	or
their	personal	preference	to	avoid	animal	food	sources	for	ethical,	environmental
or	religious	reasons.	Animal	sources	of	protein	may	also	contain	high	levels	of
saturated	fats,	but	intake	of	these	fats	can	be	minimised	by	selecting	lean	cuts	of
meat,	skinless	poultry	and	reduced	fat	dairy	products.	Nuts,	seeds	and	legumes
such	as	beans,	lentils	and	chickpeas	are	good	options	for	vegetarian	athletes	and
those	looking	for	lower	fat	or	less	expensive	
sources	of	protein.	It	is	important	to
keep	in	mind	that	vegetable	sources	of	protein	are	considered	incomplete	(that	is,
they	do	not	contain	all	of	the	essential	amino	acids)	or	limiting	(that	is,	they
contain	very	small	amounts	of	the	essential	amino	acids	relative	to
requirements).	So,	vegetarians	should	aim	to	consume	a	variety	of	protein-
containing	foods	to	obtain	all	essential	amino	acids.	See	
Table	6.1
	for	examples
of	complementary	proteins.
These	foods	can	be	simply	combined	to	make	complete	proteins—for
example,	peanut	butter	(legumes)	on	toast	(grains),	or	beans	(legumes)	and	rice
(grains).
Leucine
An	essential	amino	acid,	which	is	required	for	muscle	protein	synthesis.
The	amino	acid	
leucine
	plays	a	role	in	stimulating	muscle	protein	synthesis,
making	it	an	important	part	of	the	diet	for	athletes,	especially	masters	athletes
(
Chapter	19
)	and	those	recovering	from	injury	(
Chapter	24
).	Whey	protein,
which	makes	up	20	per	cent	of	the	protein	in	dairy	foods,	is	a	good	source	of
leucine,	so	dairy	foods	and	whey	protein	supplements	are	popular	among
athletes.
To	reduce	their	risk	of	developing	chronic	diseases,	it	is	important	for	athletes
and	active	people	to	limit	their	intake	of	saturated	fats	and	consume	moderate
amounts	of	unsaturated	fats.	Saturated	fats	are	found	predominantly	in	animal
products;	they	are	in	the	fat	on	red	meat,	in	chicken	skin	and	in	cream.	Palm	and
coconut	oils	are	also	sources	of	saturated	fat	and	are	often	found	in
commercially	prepared	baked	goods	and	deep-fried	foods.	Where	possible,	these
fats	should	be	replaced	with	health-promoting	mono-and	polyunsaturated	fats.
Monounsaturated	fats	are	found	in	olive	oil	and	walnuts	and	are	known	to	help
reduce	the	risk	of	developing	chronic	diseases	such	as	diabetes	and
cardiovascular	disease.	Omega-3	polyunsaturated	fats	are	found	predominantly
in	fish	and	help	to	reduce	inflammation,	which	can	support	a	number	of	healthy

functions	including	joint	health	and	circulation.	For	athletes	with	lower	energy
requirements,	intake	of	fat	may	need	to	be	minimised	to	limit	total	energy	intake.
Table	6.2
.	lists	foods	that	are	good	sources	of	macronutrients.
Table	6.1.	Food	sources	of	complementary	proteins
Food
Limiting	amino	acid(s)
Complementary
food
Legumes
Methionine
Grains,	nuts	and
seeds
Nuts	and	seeds
Lysine
Legumes
Grains
Lysine,	threonine
Legumes
Corn
Tryptophan,	lysine
Legumes
Source:	Adapted	from	American	Society	for	Nutrition	2011.
Table	6.2.	Good	food	sources	of	macronutrients	for	athletes
Foods	rich	in
carbohydrate
Foods	rich	in	protein
Foods	rich	in
healthy	fats
Bread
Milk
Avocado
Rice
Eggs
Nuts
Pasta
Beef
Fish
Breakfast	cereal
Chicken
Peanut	butter
Porridge	(oats)
Fish
Olive	oil
Sweet	potato
Tofu
Canola	oil
FOOD	SOURCES	OF	MICRONUTRIENTS
Every	time	we	eat	we	have	an	opportunity	to	nourish	our	bodies.	Athletes	and
active	people	should	choose	nutrient-dense	foods	as	often	as	possible	to	support

active	people	should	choose	nutrient-dense	foods	as	often	as	possible	to	support
their	bodies’	increased	nutrient	requirements.	Active	people	may	have	increased
demands	for	calcium,	iron,	B	vitamins	and	antioxidants,	including	vitamins	C
and	E.	With	careful	planning,	these	needs	can	be	met	with	a	whole	food	diet.
Some	athletes	may	choose	to	take	vitamin	and	mineral	supplements	in	an
effort	to	meet	their	nutrient	needs.	All	athletes	should	be	encouraged	to	consume
a	whole	food	diet	that	aligns	with	dietary	guidelines	to	meet	their	nutrient	needs;
however,	should	they	have	concerns	about	their	dietary	intake,	a	multivitamin
and	mineral	supplement	may	be	considered.	The	supplement	should	not	contain
more	than	the	recommended	dietary	intake	of	each	nutrient	unless	advised	by	a
doctor	or	dietitian.
It	is	important	to	understand	that	individual	foods	can	be	sources	of	many
different	nutrients.	For	example,	milk	contains	protein,	carbohydrate	and
calcium	as	well	as	other	vitamins	and	minerals.	You	can	use	the	table	below	to
identify	foods	that	will	meet	multiple	nutrient	needs.	It	is	important	to	also
consider	that	some	foods	that	are	good	sources	of	some	nutrients	may	also
contain	large	amounts	of	unhealthy	fats,	
sugars	or	salt.	For	example,	commercial
peanut	butter	is	a	source	of	protein	but	is	usually	made	with	added	fats,	sugar
and	salt.	When	using	
Table	6.3
,	keep	in	mind	that	the	nutrient	values	presented
are	per	100	grams	of	food,	which	may	not	correspond	to	the	amount	of	food	you
actually	consume.
Table	6.3.	Good	food	sources	of	select	micronutrients	for	athletes
Foods	rich	in	calcium
Foods	rich	in	iron
Foods	rich	in
vitamin	C
Milk
Beef
Citrus	fruit
Yoghurt
Lamb
Capsicum
Cheese
Beans
Berries
COMBINING	FOODS:	MEALS	FOR	ACTIVE
PEOPLE
Since	we	consume	foods	as	part	of	meals	and	in	the	context	of	a	whole	diet,	it	is
important	to	consider	how	different	foods	may	fit	together	to	create	a	healthy
eating	pattern	for	athletes	and	active	people.	Recreational	athletes	may	focus	on
developing	a	healthy	eating	plan	to	promote	good	health,	while	highly

developing	a	healthy	eating	plan	to	promote	good	health,	while	highly
competitive	athletes	may	follow	carefully	designed	eating	plans	to	maximise
performance	and	attain	optimal	body	composition.	There	are	a	number	of	issues
that	should	be	considered	when	creating	an	eating	plan	for	athletes.
•	The	amount	and	timing	of	carbohydrate	and	protein	intake	should	be	adjusted
based	on	energy	expenditure	and	sport-specific	requirements	(see	
Chapters	9
and	
10
	for	more	details).
•	Fat	intake	should	be	adjusted	to	support	appropriate	energy	intake	and	body
composition	goals	(see	
Chapters	13
	and	
17
	for	more	detail).
•	Fibre	should	be	avoided	prior	to	a	training	session	to	minimise	gastrointestinal
disturbances	(see	
Chapter	23
	for	more	detail).
•	Special	dietary	requirements	and	personal	preferences	should	be	considered	as
part	of	an	individualised	dietary	plan	to	maximise	satisfaction	with	and
adherence	to	the	diet.
•	A	variety	of	enjoyable	flavours	and	textures	should	be	used	to	encourage
consumption.
•	Food	safety	should	be	considered,	especially	for	athletes	eating	on	the	go	or
travelling	in	foreign	countries	(see	
Chapter	21
	for	more	detail).
•	Convenience	is	important	for	busy	athletes	and	active	people	juggling	training,
work	and	family	commitments.
•	Meal	planning	and	time	management	are	important	skills	to	develop	to	support
individuals	to	make	time	for	healthy	eating.
•	Cooking	skills	may	need	to	be	taught	to	support	athletes	and	active	people	to
prepare	their	own	healthy	meals.
An	example	of	a	one-day	eating	plan	that	meets	the	Australian	Dietary
Guidelines	and	the	Eating	and	Activity	Guidelines	for	New	Zealand	Adults	is
provided	in	
Box	6.3
.	This	eating	plan	is	just	a	starting	point	and	may	not	meet	all
of	an	individual’s	macronutrient	or	energy	requirements.	It	may	also	need	to	be
modified	to	meet	individual	athletes’	personal	preferences	and	dietary
requirements.
Table	6.4.	Nutrient	composition	of	foods	commonly	consumed	by	athletes
Food
Average
serving
size	(g)
Energy
(kJ/100
g)
Carbohydrate
(g/100	g)
Dietary
fibre
(g/100
g)
Protein
(g/100
g)
Total
fat
(g/100
g)
Banana
98	(one
medium)
385
19.6
2.4
1.4
0.3

medium)
Red	apple
164	(one
medium)
247
12.4
2.4
0.3
0.4
Orange
162	(one
medium)
175
8.0
2.4
1.0
0.1
Strawberry
15	(per
strawberry)
108
3.9
2.5
0.7
0.2
Sweet
potato
(cooked)
344	(one
medium)
362
17.2
3.7
2.3
0.1
Broccoli
(cooked)
67	(1/2
cup)
114
1.3
2.9
3.3
0.4
Kale
60	(1/2
cup)
70
1.1
1.9
1.6
0.2
Corn
(cooked)
89	(1/2
cup)
438
12.8
4.8
4.2
2.8
Wholemeal
bread
64	(two
slices)
982
39.7
6.3
9.0
2.9
White
bread
66	(two
slices)
1027
45
2.8
9.7
2.1
Pasta
(cooked)
155	(one
cup)
584
28.4
2.1
4.2
0.3
Rolled	oats
(cooked)
260	(one
cup)
273
10.2
1.7
2.0
1.4
Beef	rump
steak,	fat
trimmed
(cooked)
171
(medium
steak)
742
0
0
31.7
5.5
Skinless
chicken
112	(small
breast)
598
0
0
29.8
2.5

chicken
breast
(cooked)
breast)
Tinned
tuna
95	(1/2
cup)
518
0
0
24.8
2.6
Peanut
butter
20
2470
12
5.8
22.2
50
Baked
beans
275	(one
cup)
355
10.1
5.2
4.9
0.3
Walnuts
30	(one
handful)
2904
3
6.4
14.4
69.2
Full-cream
milk
250	(one
cup)
293
6.3
0
3.5
3.5
Skim	milk
250	(one
cup)
147
5
0
3.7
0.1
Chocolate
flavoured
reduced	fat
milk
250	(one
cup)
266
8.8
0
3.5
1.8
Plain
Greek
yoghurt
130	(1/2
cup)
367
5
0
6
4.4
Tasty
cheese
30
1663
0.5
0
24.6
32.8
Sports
supplement
powder
(for	protein
shakes)
45
1533
65.6
0
24
2
Sports
drinks
624	(one
bottle)
113
7
0
0
0

Source:	NUTTAB	2010	(Food	Standards	Australia	New	Zealand);	The	University	of	New	South	Wales;
Professor	Heather	Greenfield	and	co-workers	at	the	University	of	New	South	Wales;	Tables	of	composition
of	Australian	Aboriginal	Foods	(J	Brand-Miller,	KW	James	and	PMA	Maggiore).	There	are	limitations
associated	with	food	composition	databases.	Nutrient	data	published	in	NUTTAB	2010	may	represent	an
average	of	the	nutrient	content	of	a	particular	sample	of	foods	and	ingredients,	determined	at	a	particular
time.	The	nutrient	composition	of	foods	and	ingredients	can	vary	substantially	between	batches	and	brands
because	of	a	number	of	factors,	including	changes	in	season,	changes	in	formulation,	processing	practices
and	ingredient	source.	While	most	of	the	data	contained	in	NUTTAB	2010	are	generated	from	analysed
values,	some	of	the	data	are	borrowed	from	overseas	food	composition	tables;	supplied	by	the	food
industry;	taken	from	food	labels;	imputed	from	similar	foods;	or	calculated	using	a	recipe	approach.
Box	6.3:	A	one-day	eating	plan
SUPER-START	BREAKFAST
200	g	plain	reduced	fat	Greek	yoghurt
¼	cup	rolled	oats	or	store-bought	muesli
15	g	walnuts	(about	6	nuts)
15	g	almonds	(about	10	nuts)
¼	cup	frozen	raspberries
1	orange
This	super-start	breakfast	provides	good	serves	of	protein	and	carbohydrate,
and	moderate	amounts	of	monounsaturated	fats.	It	combines	the
convenience	of	store-bought	muesli	with	added	nuts	for	additional	fibre,
protein	and	monounsaturated	fats.	The	berries	and	citrus	fruit	provide
antioxidants	and	boost	the	flavour.
This	provides:	1	serve	milk	and	alternatives,	1	serve	grains,	1	serve	meat
and	alternatives,	1.5	serves	fruit,	46	g	CHO,	15	g	fibre,	27	g	protein,	29	g
total	fat,	5	g	saturated	fat,	2420	kJ.
LUNCH-TO-GO
2	slices	of	wholegrain	bread
40	g	shredded	cooked	chicken	breast
1	tbsp	avocado
2	tsp	reduced	fat	mayonnaise
1	slice	Swiss	cheese
10	baby	spinach	leaves

10	baby	spinach	leaves
½	sliced	tomato
¼	sliced	red	capsicum
¼	sliced	cucumber
⅛	sliced	red	onion
1	red	apple
This	convenient	lunch	on	the	go	can	be	prepared	the	night	before	and
refrigerated	or	stored	in	a	cooler	bag	with	an	ice	pack	until	you	are	ready	to
eat.	The	simple	chicken	sandwich	gets	a	flavour	and	nutrient	boost	with
generous	serves	of	a	variety	of	salad	vegetables.	The	amount	of	chicken	or
cheese	can	be	increased	if	more	energy	or	protein	is	required.	To	save	time
preparing	food,	chop	up	
whole	vegetables	and	place	the	unneeded	portions
in	containers	in	the	refrigerator	ready	for	lunch	the	next	day.
This	provides:	2	serves	grains,	0.5	serves	milk	and	alternatives,	0.5
serves	meat	and	alternatives,	2	serves	vegetables,	1	serve	fruit,	54	g	CHO,
13	g	fibre,	50	g	PRO,	17	g	total	fat,	6	g	saturated	fat,	2163	kJ.
POWER-PACKED	DINNER
150	g	oven	baked	salmon	fillet	+	2	tsp	lemon	juice
1	medium	boiled	potato	(skin	on)	+	2	tsp	olive	oil	and	2	tsp	chopped	fresh
parsley	½	cup	steamed	green	beans
½	cup	cooked	carrots
1	wholemeal	dinner	roll
This	simple	dinner	can	be	prepared	with	minimal	cooking	skills	and	packs
in	good	amounts	of	carbohydrate,	protein	and	omega-3	fats.	The	generous
serves	of	vegetables	are	ideal	for	a	meal	that	is	consumed	at	the	end	of	the
day	when	you	have	time	to	sit	down	and	enjoy	time	with	friends	or	family.
Vary	the	vegetables	or	the	type	of	fish	to	suit	your	tastes,	and	make	an	extra
portion	so	you	have	a	meal	ready	to	reheat	for	dinner	tomorrow	night.	For	a
more	budget-friendly	option,	try	preparing	salmon	patties	using	tinned
salmon.
This	provides:	1	serve	grains,	1.5	serves	meat	and	alternatives,	4	serves
vegetables,	29	g	CHO,	7	g	fibre,	51	g	PRO,	39	g	total	fat,	8	g	saturated	fat,
2862	kJ.
SIMPLE	SUPPER

SIMPLE	SUPPER
1	cup	mixed	grain	breakfast	cereal
1	cup	skim	milk
Breakfast	cereal	is	a	great	staple	to	keep	on	hand	for	a	quick	snack	any	time
of	the	day.	Check	the	labels	to	choose	one	that	contains	wholegrains	and	is
low	in	sugar.
This	provides:	2	serves	grains,	1	serve	milk	and	alternatives,	59	g	CHO,
4	g	fibre,	15	g	PRO,	1	g	total	fat,	0	g	saturated	fat,	1321	kJ.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	understand	the	importance	of	consuming
whole	foods	and	be	familiar	with	food	selection	guides.	You	have	identified
some	foods	that	can	help	you	meet	your	dietary	goals,	and	can	use	the	resources
listed	in	the	Australian	Dietary	Guidelines	<
https://www.eatforhealth.gov.au/
>
and	the	Sports	Dietitians	Australia	website
<
https://www.sportsdietitians.com.au/factsheets/
>.
Key	messages
•	A	whole	food	diet	provides	more	benefit	than	can	be	gained	by	consuming
nutrients	alone.
•	The	Australian	and	New	Zealand	governments	have	used	the	best	available
evidence	to	develop	dietary	guidelines	and	food	selection	guides	to	help	the
general	population	maintain	good	health.
•	Athletes	may	benefit	from	additional	individualised	dietary	advice	from	an
Accredited	Sports	Dietitian.
•	Carbohydrate-rich	foods	can	be	selected	to	maximise	performance	and
minimise	gastrointestinal	discomfort.
•	Protein	can	be	obtained	from	a	number	of	plant	and	animal	sources	to	meet	an
athlete’s	protein	requirements.
•	Athletes	can	meet	all	of	their	vitamin	and	mineral	requirements	with	a	whole
food	diet.
REFERENCES

REFERENCES
American	Society	for	Nutrition,	2011,	
Protein	Complementation,
<
https://nutrition.org/protein-complementation/
>,	accessed	29	March	2018.
Food	Standards	Australia	New	Zealand,	2010,	
NUTTAB	2010—Australian	Food
Composition	Tables
,	Canberra,	ACT:	Food	Standards	Australia	New	Zealand.
Ministry	of	Health,	2015,	
Eating	and	Activity	Guidelines	for	New	Zealand
Adults,
	Wellington,	NZ:	Ministry	of	Health.
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council,	Australian	Government
Department	of	Health	and	Ageing,	New	Zealand	Ministry	of	Health,	2006,
Nutrient	Reference	Values	for	Australia	and	New	Zealand,
	Canberra,	ACT:
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council.
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council,	2013,	
Australian	Dietary
Guidelines,
	Canberra,	ACT:	National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council.

Dietary	assessment
Yasmine	C.	Probst
The	preceding	chapters	have	provided	us	with	an	overview	of	the	nutrients
needed	for	good	health	and	performance.	In	order	to	understand	where	these
nutrients	come	from	when	we	eat	foods	as	part	of	our	daily	lives,	we	need	to
collect	information	about	what	people	eat.	Dietitians	and	nutritionists	use	many
different	types	of	tools,	referred	to	as	dietary	assessment	methods,	to	collect	this
information.	To	translate	the	food	information	into	nutrient	outcomes,	we	also
need	to	use	tools	called	food	composition	databases.	In	this	chapter,	we	will
explore	some	of	the	most	common	dietary	assessment	tools	and	address	some
considerations	we	need	to	be	aware	of	when	using	food	composition	databases.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:	•	describe	common	methods
of	dietary	assessment,	with	particular	focus	on	their	strengths	and	limitations	•
understand	how	food	information	can	be	translated	to	nutrient	outcomes	•
appreciate	how	dietary	guidelines	and	nutrition	policies	can	be	used	with	dietary

appreciate	how	dietary	guidelines	and	nutrition	policies	can	be	used	with	dietary
assessment	information	•	describe	aspects	of	dietary	assessment	important	in
sports,	including	the	timing	of	snacks	or	meals	relative	to	training	and
competition.
WHAT	IS	DIETARY	ASSESSMENT?
Dietary	assessment	is	the	process	by	which	we	find	out	what	a	person	or	group
of	people	are	eating	and	drinking.	This	is	fundamental	to	the	skills	of	a	dietitian
but	may	also	be	important	for	other	health	and	fitness	professionals	to	gain	an
understanding	of	people’s	food	habits.	Dietary	assessments	can	be	obtained	at
the	time	foods	and	drinks	are	consumed,	or	they	can	be	performed
retrospectively,	after	foods	and	drinks	have	been	eaten,	often	relying	heavily	on
a	person’s	memory.	To	help	capture	the	required	information,	a	range	of
assessment	methods	have	been	developed	and	refined	over	time,	each	with	their
own	advantages	and	disadvantages.	These	factors	are	unique	to	the	situation	in
which	the	assessment	method	is	being	used	and	the	individual	or	group	with
whom	it	is	being	used.	Capturing	dietary	information	for	a	five-year-old	child,
for	example,	will	have	many	different	considerations	than	capturing	dietary
information	from	an	adult	who	lives	alone	and	does	all	their	own	cooking	and
shopping.	Not	only	will	the	types	of	tools	used	need	to	be	considered	but	the
impact	of	other	factors	will	also	need	to	be	thought	through.	These	other	factors
include	things	such	as	bias	and	literacy,	which	will	be	addressed	below	in
relation	to	each	of	the	specific	assessment	methods.	The	assessment	methods
vary	in	terms	of	how	they	are	undertaken	but	also	in	relation	to	the	form	in
which	the	food	information	is	collected.	This	form	can	be	pen	and	paper,	or	it
can	be	in	various	digital	formats.	After	the	food	information	has	been	collected,
careful	consideration	needs	to	be	given	to	how	the	information	will	be	used.	Is
nutrient	information	needed	from	the	foods	that	were	reportedly	eaten	or	will
these	foods	be	related	to	dietary	guideline	recommendations?	These	two	options
will	be	discussed	later	in	this	chapter.
DIETARY	ASSESSMENT	METHODS
The	types	of	dietary	assessment	methods	that	are	commonly	used	include	those
based	on	recall	and	memory,	such	as	the	24-hour	recall	(National	Cancer
Institute;	Salvador	Castell	
et	al.
	2015),	the	diet	history	interview	(Tapsell	
et	al.
2000)	and	the	food	frequency	questionnaire	(National	Cancer	Institute;	Perez

Rodrigo	
et	al.
	2015).	Other	assessments	capturing	intake	at	the	time	of
consumption—namely,	the	food	record	or	food	diary—may	also	be	used	in
isolation	or	in	parallel	with	the	other	methods.	These	tools	are	then	further
categorised	into	whether	they	are	capturing	actual	intake	or	usual	intake
information.	The	food	record	or	food	diary	is	the	most	suitable	tool	to	capture
actual	food	intake	information.	This	assessment	method	requires	a	person	to
write	down	the	names	and	brand	names	of	all	foods	and	beverages	consumed	by
meal	occasion	and	to	quantify	the	amount	consumed.	The	way	in	which	this
quantity	is	determined	creates	the	differentiating	factor	between	an	
estimated
food	record
	and	a	
weighed	food	record
.	As	the	name	suggests,	an	estimated
food	record	only	requires	an	estimate	of	portion	size	in	terms	the	person
recording	the	foods	can	relate	to.	A	weighed	food	record,	on	the	other	hand,
requires	the	person	recording	the	foods	to	accurately	measure	and	weigh	all
items	to	be	consumed.	This	includes	a	breakdown	of	ingredients	required	for	a
food	that	is	cooked	as	part	of	a	recipe	and	requires	the	person	to	take	the
measuring	equipment	with	them	to	all	eating	occasions.	As	a	result,	although	the
accuracy	of	the	recorded	food	items	
should
	be	higher	than	an	estimated	record,
often	subconscious	or	conscious	changes	to	the	types	of	food	eaten	occur	and	the
actual	intake	is	distorted.	To	reduce	the	impact	of	this	bias,	digital	food	records
have	been	developed	whereby	the	user	takes	photographs	of	the	food	being
consumed	before	and	after	eating.	Using	images	to	capture	the	food	items	also
reduces	the	burden	related	to	the	number	of	days	of	recording.	Having	more	days
required	often	results	in	less	detailed	information	being	provided,	which	also
substantially	affects	the	accuracy.	As	a	result,	the	most	common	duration	is	the
three-day	estimated	food	record,	which	includes	at	least	one	weekend	day.
Estimated	food	record
A	form	of	dietary	assessment	in	which	a	person	records	all	the	food	and	drink	they	have	consumed	by
estimating	the	weight	or	serving	size	of	the	food.
Weighed	food	record
A	form	of	dietary	assessment	in	which	a	person	records	with	weights	and	volumes	all	the	food	and	drink
they	have	consumed.
A	24-hour	dietary	assessment	follows	a	structured	approach	to	dietary
assessment	by	capturing	information	about	foods	and	beverages	consumed
during	the	previous	day	or	24-hour	period.	Often	administered	by	an	interviewer,
this	form	of	assessment	alone	cannot	capture	usual	intake	information	about	the
diet	unless	it	is	repeated	over	a	number	of	occasions.	During	a	24-hour	recall	the

diet	unless	it	is	repeated	over	a	number	of	occasions.	During	a	24-hour	recall	the
interviewer	follows	a	multiple	pass	approach	to	guide	the	interviewee’s	recall	of
their	food	and	beverage	intakes.	This	approach	begins	with	a	free-flowing	recall
of	all	items	in	the	order	they	were	consumed.	The	process	is	uninterrupted	to
allow	the	interviewee	to	recall	an	unprompted	food	list.	This	list	is	then
addressed	from	the	beginning	to	obtain	further	detail	about	the	food	item	types,
accompanying	foods	and	commonly	forgotten	items,	as	well	as	the	portion	size
of	each	of	the	foods	and	beverages	recalled.	The	recalls	often	follow	a	meal-
based	format,	although	the	eating	occasion,	timing	and	location	may	also	be
collected	depending	upon	the	requirements.
Like	the	24-hour	recall,	the	diet	history	interview	is	based	on	the	memory	of
the	person	recalling	their	food	and	beverage	consumption,	but	the	process	is
largely	interviewer-led	and	addresses	usual	intake.	This	usual	intake	period
generally	covers	a	one-month	period	but	can	vary	substantially,	from	one	week
up	to	one	year.	The	diet	history	interview	follows	a	similar	format	to	the	24-hour
recall;	however,	its	open-ended	nature	lends	itself	to	recall	of	foods	that	are
eaten	less	frequently,	during	particular	seasons	or	at	eating	occasions	such	as
birthdays.	Guided	by	the	interviewer,	a	diet	history	interview	is	a	skill-based
dietary	assessment	method	traditionally	undertaken	by	trained	dietitians.	Often
followed	up	with	a	checklist	of	commonly	forgotten	foods,	the	diet	history
interview	provides	information	about	the	foods	eaten	by	a	person,	the	frequency
at	which	those	foods	are	eaten	and	the	portion	size	that	is	usually	eaten.	This
portion	size	may	be	guided	by	household	measures	such	as	measuring	cups	and
spoons,	by	pictorial	portion	guides	or	using	food	models.	Both	the	diet	history
interview	and	the	24-hour	recall	have	been	automated;	the	structure	of	the	24-
hour	recall	lends	itself	particularly	well	to	this	format,	with	the	prompts	provided
by	an	avatar	on	screen	rather	than	in	person	by	the	interviewer.	This	format
allows	large	numbers	of	people	to	recall	their	intakes	without	the	need	for
additional	resources.
Table	7.1.	Summary	of	common	dietary	assessment	methods
Assessment
method
Recording	type
Strengths
Limitations
Food	record
•	Prospective
(recorded	as
they	are
consumed)
•	Self-
•	Actual	intake
information
•	Using	images
reduces	burden
•	Increased	days
are	affected	by
burden
•	Social
desirability	bias

•	Self-
administered
desirability	bias
creates	changed
intakes	•
Requires	literate
persons
24-hour	recall
•	Retrospective
(reflects	back	on
dietary	intake)	•
Multiple	pass
method
•	Interviewer
assisted
•	Quick	to
administer
•	Repeated	recalls
can	give	usual
intake
information	•
Structured
approach
•	Affected	by
memory
•	Affected	by
social
desirability	bias
Diet	history
interview
•	Retrospective
•	Interviewer
prompted
•	Usual	intake
information
•	Captures	in-
depth
information
•	Affected	by
memory
•	Affected	by
social
desirability	bias
•	Requires
interviewer
•	Requires	30–60
minutes	to
complete
Food
frequency
questionnaire
•	Retrospective
•	Self-
administered
•	Can	be
interviewer-
assisted
•	Usual	intake
information
•	Can	be
completed	over
multiple
attempts
•	Can	be	tailored
to	requirements,
e.g.
	nutrient
type
•	Length	of	food
list	affects
accuracy
•	May	not	be
quantified
Usual	intake	information	may	also	be	collected	using	a	food	frequency
questionnaire.	The	questionnaire	includes	a	list	of	food	items	suited	to	the
purpose	of	the	information	being	collected.	For	example,	if	the	purpose	is	to

determine	calcium	intake	then	only	calcium-containing	foods	need	be	included.
The	food	list	may	
comprise	single	food	items	or	it	may	group	foods	with	similar
characteristics.	The	person	completing	the	questionnaire	identifies	how	often	the
food	is	consumed	based	on	the	frequency	categories	provided.	Food	frequency
questionnaires	may	span	wide	time	intervals,	with	some	even	referring	to	the
previous	year.	Food	frequency	questionnaires	can	be	quantified	or	semi-
quantified,	meaning	that	they	may	also	require	information	about	the	portion	size
most	often	consumed	for	each	item	in	the	food	list.	The	portion	sizes	can	refer	to
a	standard	size	that	may	relate	to	dietary	guidelines,	or	they	may	be	displayed	as
images	or	different	size	options	for	each	food	choice.	Inclusion	of	portion	size
information	may	also	result	in	improved	response	rates.	Food	frequency
questionnaires	are	commonly	self-administered,	meaning	they	do	not	require	an
interviewer	to	ask	the	questions.	This	does,	however,	leave	the	tool	open	to
interpretation	by	the	person	reporting	their	intake	and	may	lead	to	missed
sections	or	skipped	food	items.
TRANSLATING	DIETARY	INTAKES	TO
NUTRIENT	OUTCOMES
The	above	section	has	outlined	a	number	of	methods	used	to	find	out	what	food
and	beverages	are	being	consumed	by	a	person.	These	methods	all	result	in
information	related	to	specific	foods	and	beverages,	which	may	not	be	of
practical	use	if	someone	needs	to	determine	how	much	protein	or	energy	they
are	consuming.	To	translate	the	food	and	beverage	information	to	nutrient
information,	tools	referred	to	as	
food	composition	databases
	are	used.	These
databases	contain	a	list	of	foods	available	in	the	food	supply	and	their	nutrient
information,	including	both	macronutrients	and	micronutrients.	Each	country	has
its	own	unique	food	composition	database,	as	many	foods	are	affected	by	local
processing,	harvesting,	soil	conditions,	UV	exposure,	food	regulatory
environments	and	many	other	factors.	There	is	specialised	software	available	to
make	the	use	of	food	composition	tables	fast	and	efficient.	Although	the
software	is	useful,	it	does	require	the	user	to	have	a	basic	understanding	of
which	food	composition	database	to	choose.	If	many	assessments	need	to	be
translated,	as	is	common	in	research,	the	person	or	people	using	the	software
need	to	ensure	they	use	it	consistently	and	follow	the	same	assumptions.	It	also
needs	to	be	appreciated	that	not	every	food	item	found	on	the	supermarket	shelf
will	appear	in	a	food	composition	database,	but	generic	versions	of	most	foods
do	exist	and	therefore	careful	choices	for	the	correct	food	match	need	to	be

made.
Food	composition	databases
Databases	that	contain	lists	of	foods	available	in	the	food	supply	and	their	nutrient	information	including
energy,	macronutrients	and	micronutrients.
In	Australia,	and	many	other	countries	across	the	globe,	we	have	two	types	of
food	composition	databases:	a	
survey	database
	and	a	
reference	database
.	The
survey	database	contains	a	complete	nutrient	set	for	all	the	foods	listed	and	is
based	on	the	food	items	reported	in	the	national	nutrition	survey	for	which	it	was
developed.	Some	of	this	nutrient	information	is	calculated	or	borrowed	from
overseas	databases	but	the	majority	is	based	on	the	reference	database.	The
reference	database	contains	fewer	food	items,	although	a	higher	proportion	of
the	items	have	been	analysed	in	the	laboratory	to	identify	the	amounts	of
nutrients	in	the	foods.	As	a	result,	some	foods	may	not	include	the	same	number
of	nutrient	values	and	the	database	is	therefore	considered	incomplete.	The
survey	databases	in	Australia	are	referred	to	as	AUSNUT	(Australian	Nutrient)
databases	and	the	reference	databases	as	NUTTAB	(Nutrient	Tables)	databases.
The	most	recent	AUSNUT	database	contains	over	5700	food	and	beverage
items,	while	the	most	recent	NUTTAB	database	contains	slightly	more	than
2500	food	and	beverage	items	(Probst	&	Cunningham	2015).
Survey	database
Databases	that	are	specifically	developed	for	the	analysis	of	all	foods	reported	in	national	nutrition
surveys.	For	example,	in	Australia,	AUSNUT	was	developed	for	the	Australian	Health	Survey	2011–12.
Reference	database
Databases	developed	from	a	wide	range	of	foods	that	are	primarily	analysed	in	the	laboratory.	For
example,	in	Australia,	NUTTAB	is	the	reference	database.
Box	7.1:	National	Nutrition	and	Physical	Activity	Survey
2011–13
The	National	Nutrition	and	Physical	Activity	Survey	2011–13	was	the
largest	and	most	comprehensive	food-and	physical	activity-related	survey

conducted	in	Australia.	It	involved	the	collection	of	detailed	physical
activity	information	using	self-reported	and	pedometer	collection	methods,
along	with	detailed	information	on	dietary	intake	and	foods	consumed	from
over	12,000	participants	across	Australia.	The	nutrition	component	is	the
first	national	nutrition	survey	of	adults	and	children	(aged	two	years	and
over)	conducted	in	over	15	years.	More	information	and	data	can	be	found
at	the	Australian	Bureau	of	Statistics	Australian	Health	Survey	webpage
(ABS	2014)
<
http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/lookup/4364.0.55.007main+features12011-
12
>.
To	translate	food	and	beverage	information	to	nutrient	information	the	survey,
or	AUSNUT,	database	should	be	used.	As	this	contains	a	complete	set	of
nutrient	values,	it	will	result	in	better	quality	nutrient	outcomes	with	less
incomplete	data	(Sobolewksi	
et	al.
	2010).	The	NUTTAB	database	can	also	be
used,	but	is	more	useful	when	working	out	how	much	of	a	particular	nutrient	is
in	one	or	a	few	food	items	
or	when	developing	a	specialised	menu	plan.	Using
NUTTAB	ensures	the	nutrient	values	are	primarily	analysed	in	the	laboratory
and	therefore	more	accurate.	Where	no	matching	food	information	is	available,
food	label	information	may	be	used,	but	this	is	considered	lower	quality	data	as
it	is	often	based	on	calculations	and	limited	to	the	nutrients	required	to	be	listed
under	the	various	regulatory	codes	and	policies.
USING	DIETARY	GUIDELINES	AND	POLICIES
IN	PRACTICE
By	now	you	will	have	read	about	the	Australian	Dietary	Guidelines	and	how
they	were	developed	(
Chapter	6
).	Armed	with	food	information	from	a	dietary
assessment,	and	nutrient	information	obtained	by	using	food	composition
databases,	we	now	need	to	think	about	how	we	can	use	this	information	with	our
clients.	The	most	common	approach	relates	the	food	consumed	to	the	Australian
Dietary	Guidelines	(NHMRC	2013).	These	guidelines	are	designed	to	maximise
intake	from	core	food	groups	and	limit	consumption	of	foods	known	as
discretionary	sources.	This	comparison	can	be	made	using	data	collected	through
any	of	the	assessment	methods	described	in	this	chapter,	although	care	needs	to
be	taken	that	any	recommendations	based	on	this	comparison	are	relevant	for	the
individual	client.	For	this	reason,	readily	available	and	consumer-friendly

resources,	such	as	the	Australian	Guide	to	Healthy	Eating,	can	be	used	to	guide
discussions	with	clients	around	portion	sizes	and	the	balance	and	types	of	foods
being	consumed,	using	the	suggested	serves	per	day	for	each	of	the	food	groups.
Conversations	based	on	the	Australian	Dietary	Guidelines	are	considered	to	be
within	the	scope	of	practice	for	trained	nutrition,	exercise	and	fitness
professionals.	However,	more	specific	and	personalised	dietary	planning	is	the
speciality	of	dietitians;	hence,	when	working	with	athletes	it	is	best	to	refer	to	a
dietitian	if	you	are	not	specifically	trained	as	one	(
https://daa.asn.au/find-an-
apd/
).
Other	useful	tools	that	can	be	aligned	with	dietary	assessment	outcomes	are
the	Nutrient	Reference	Values	(NRV)	(NHMRC	2006)	discussed	in	
Chapter	4
.
After	translating	food	and	beverage	information	to	nutrient	intakes,	the
appropriate	NRV	can	be	used	as	a	comparator	to	determine	adequacy	of	intake.
A	person	consuming	insufficient	amounts	of	important	nutrients	may	need	to
increase	or	balance	the	foods	that	they	are	eating.	Given	that	insufficient	intake
of	some	nutrients	can	result	in	deficiency	symptoms,	while	overconsumption	can
result	in	toxicity	symptoms,	adjustments	based	on	nutrient	concerns	are	best
supported	by	a	trained	dietitian.	The	dietitian	will	be	able	to	consider	the
medical,	lifestyle	and	exercise-related	factors	relevant	to	the	individual	and
identify	any	possible	medication	interactions	or	underlying	concerns	as	to	why
the	nutrient	levels	are	outside	of	the	normal	ranges.	It	is	important	to	note	that
nutrient	information	taken	directly	from	a	dietary	assessment	method	and
translated	using	a	food	composition	database	can	be	affected	by	bias	(see
limitations	
in	
Table	7.1
).	For	this	reason,	if	the	dietitian	expresses	concern	he	or
she	will	likely	suggest	further	medical	intervention	via	a	general	practitioner.
Applying	dietary	assessment	to	sports
Although	the	Australian	Dietary	Guidelines	are	developed	for	the	general
population,	the	messages	are	applicable	to	many	sporting	practices	as	well.	It
should	be	noted,	however,	that	the	level	and	types	of	training	undertaken	by
sporting	professionals	or	athletes	may	require	additional	or	modified	guidance	to
optimise	health	and	wellbeing.	The	long	or	intensive	training	sessions	and
competitive	events	require	athletes	to	be	at	optimum	performance	for	a	given
time	period.	The	timing	of	such	events	may	last	for	a	season	or	for	shorter
intermittent	periods	of	time	throughout	a	year.	Not	only	does	the	food	eaten	need
to	be	taken	into	consideration	but	beverages	and	their	amounts	are	also	crucial	to
allow	the	athlete	to	perform	at	their	best.
Following	a	dietary	assessment,	each	of	the	above	factors	needs	to	be

Following	a	dietary	assessment,	each	of	the	above	factors	needs	to	be
addressed	with	the	athlete.	Are	they	in	an	off-season	period?	Are	they	training	or
are	they	competing?	The	type	of	sport	being	undertaken,	whether	it	is	primarily
strength-or	endurance-focused,	and	the	athlete’s	age,	health	status	and	sex
should	also	be	addressed.	Many	sports	require	careful	timing	of	athletes’	fluid
intake,	snacks	and	meals	relative	to	their	training	schedule	and	intensity	and
their	competitive	games	or	events.	The	composition	of	these	meals	needs	to	be
managed.	Too	much	or	too	little	of	key	nutrients,	such	as	protein,	carbohydrate
and	fat,	which	all	provide	energy	to	the	body,	can	disrupt	optimal	performance
and	result	in	an	athlete	feeling	lethargic	or	bloated	or	experiencing	stomach
cramps.	Dietary	planning	needs	to	ensure	that	the	athlete	follows	a	general
healthy,	balanced	diet	with	personalised	adjustments	made	to	the	above	nutrients
via	key	foods	as	needed.
For	a	dietary	assessment	of	an	athlete,	a	diet	history	interview	will	likely
capture	the	most	in-depth	food	and	beverage	information	and	also	allow	a
history	of	subjective	factors—such	as	mood	and	perceived	effects	on
performance—to	be	obtained.	The	interviewer	has	the	ability	to	focus	on	key
training	and	periods	in	the	lead-up	to	an	event	while	also	considering	other
lifestyle-related	factors	that	may	impact	the	individual.	Variation	in	dietary
assessments	due	to	the	variable	lifestyles	of	many	athletes	should	also	be	taken
into	account.	On	some	occasions	more	detail	may	be	required,	and	a	food	record
or	diary	may	be	used	as	well.	This	provides	accountability	for	the	athlete	if	they
have	been	asked	to	follow	a	very	specific	eating	plan	and	also	raises	awareness
of	serving	sizes	in	relation	to	recommended	portion	sizes.	The	food	record	can
also	capture	the	time	of	the	meals	and	record	time	of	training	to	allow	for	meal
plans	to	be	tailored	based	on	feedback	from	the	athlete.	The	food	diary	should
also	endeavour	to	capture	fluid	intakes,	even	though	beverages	are	often	more
intermittently	consumed.
In	the	lead-up	to	an	event,	a	24-hour	recall	may	also	provide	useful	insights.
Common	recommendations	for	some	sports,	such	as	the	timing	and	composition
of	pre-game	meals	and	snacks,	can	be	monitored	with	a	quick	recall.	The	recall
can	also	capture	information	about	food	intake	following	an	event	and	allow
adjustments	to	be	made	to	the	food	choices	if	needed	to	promote	recovery.
Some	sports	have	specific	guidelines	developed	for	them,	based	on	the
Australian	Dietary	Guidelines	but	tailored	to	the	specific	needs	of	the	athletes.
Accredited	Sports	Dietitians	should	be	consulted	to	ensure	any	meal	plans	being
followed	are	tailored	to	the	individual.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES

SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	be	familiar	with	a	range	of	dietary
assessment	methods.	You	should	be	able	to	identify	which	tools	are	most
appropriate	to	use	in	different	circumstances,	and	be	able	to	outline	the
limitations	associated	with	those	methods.	You	should	also	have	a	basic
understanding	of	food	composition	databases	and	be	able	to	select	the
appropriate	database	for	use	in	a	specific	context.
Key	messages
•	Dietary	assessment	methods	need	to	be	carefully	selected	based	on	the	person
or	group	of	people	whose	diet	needs	to	be	assessed.
•	All	dietary	assessment	methods	have	inherent	advantages	and	disadvantages.
•	When	translating	food	information	from	a	dietary	assessment,	the	correct	food
composition	database	needs	to	be	selected.
•	Dietary	guidelines	and	Nutrient	Reference	Values	may	also	be	used	as
comparative	tools	when	analysing	a	person’s	dietary	intake.
Assessing	dietary	intakes	of	an	athlete	requires	consideration	of	the	type	of	sport
being	undertaken,	as	well	as	lifestyle	factors,	which	can	all	be	addressed	by	an
Accredited	Practising	Sports	Dietitian.
REFERENCES
Australian	Bureau	of	Statistics,	2014,	
Australian	Health	Survey:	Nutrition	First
Results–Foods	and	Nutrients,	2011–12
	[Online],	Australian	Bureau	of
Statistics,
<
http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Lookup/by%20Subject/4364.0.55.007~2011-
12~Main%20Features~Key%20Findings~1
>,	accessed	29	January	2018.
National	Cancer	Institute,	n.d.,	
Dietary	Assessment	Primer:	24-Hour	Dietary
Recall	(24HR)	at	a	Glance
,	retrieved	from
<
https://dietassessmentprimer.cancer.gov/profiles/recall/index.html
>,
accessed	5	December	2017.
——	n.d.,	
Dietary	Assessment	Primer:	Food	Frequency	Questionnaire	at	a
glance
,	retrieved	from
<
https://dietassessmentprimer.cancer.gov/profiles/questionnaire/index.html
>.
——	n.d.,	
Dietary	Assessment	Primer:	Food	Record	at	a	Glance
,	retrieved	from

<
https://dietassessmentprimer.cancer.gov/profiles/record/
>.
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council	(NHMRC)	2006,	
Nutrient
Reference	Values
,	<
www.nrv.gov.au/
>,	accessed	22	September	2017.
——	2013,	
Eat	for	Health:	Australian	Dietary	Guidelines	Summary
,	retrieved
from
<www.nhmrc.gov.au/_files_nhmrc/publications/attachments/n55a_australian_dietary_guidelines_summary_131014.pdf>.
Perez	Rodrigo,	C.,	Aranceta,	J.,	Salvador,	G.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Food	frequency
questionnaires’,	
Nutricion	Hospitalaria,
	vol.	31,	no.	3,	pp.	49–56.
Probst,	Y.C.	&	Cunningham,	J.,	2015,	‘An	overview	of	the	influential
developments	and	stakeholders	within	the	food	composition	program	of
Australia’,	
Trends	in	Food	Science	and	Technology
,	vol.	42,	no	2,	pp.	173–
82.
Salvador	Castell,	G.,	Serra-Majem,	L.	&	Ribas-Barba,	L.,	2015,	‘What	and	how
much	do	we	eat?	24-hour	dietary	recall	method’,	
Nutricion	Hospitalaria
,	vol.
31,	no.	3,	pp.	46–8.
Sobolewksi,	R.,	Cunningham,	J.	&	Mackerras,	D.,	2010,	‘Which	Australian	food
composition	database	should	I	use?’,	
Nutrition	&	Dietetics
,	vol.	67,	no.	1,	pp.
37–40.
Tapsell,	L.C.,	Brenninger,	V.	&	Barnard,	J.,	2000,	‘Applying	conversation
analysis	to	foster	accurate	reporting	in	the	diet	history	interview’,	
Journal	of
the	American	Dietetic	Association
,	vol.	100,	no.	7,	pp.	818–24.

Macronutrient	periodisation
Louise	M.	Burke
Although	most	people	now	recognise	that	sports	nutrition	involves	a
personalised	approach	tailored	to	the	specific	needs	of	the	event	and	the
individual,	there	is	still	a	perception	that	the	athlete’s	goal	is	to	develop	an
optimal	meal	plan	(for	example,	a	swimmer’s	diet	or	Swimmer	X’s	diet),	then
carefully	repeat	it	each	day	to	provide	consistent	support	for	their	training	and
competition	goals.	However,	contemporary	sports	nutrition	guidelines	promote
the	benefits	of	a	periodised	approach	to	intake	energy	and	macronutrient	intake,
with	each	athlete	following	a	range	of	different	dietary	practices	aligned	to	the
different	phases	of	their	training	cycles,	competition	calendars	or	career
progress.	Although	there	is	no	single	or	unified	definition	of	the	term	‘dietary
periodisation’,	
Table	9.1
	summarises	four	different	themes	that	involve	a
strategic	manipulation	of	nutrient	intake	between	and	within	days	to	optimise
athletic	performance.	Since	the	principles	and	practices	of	arranging	nutrient
intake	around	training/event	sessions	(intake	pre-,	during	and	post-session)	are
covered	in	
Chapter	10
,	this	chapter	will	review	and	summarise	the	evidence	and

application	of	the	other	three	periodisation	themes.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	understand	that	an	athlete’s	training/competition	schedule	involves	changes	in
the	type,	quantity	and	goals	of	exercise	sessions,	which	should	be	supported	by
changes	in	energy	and	macronutrient	intake
•	appreciate	that	different	dietary	strategies	can	enhance	the	muscle’s	capacity	to
use	different	fuels	(such	as	fat	vs	carbohydrate),	which	may	play	a	role	in
enhancing	competition	performance
•	understand	the	true	meaning	of	‘metabolic	flexibility’	and	some	of	the	ways	in
which	this	concept	is	currently	being	used	or	misused
•	be	aware	of	an	emerging	theme	in	sports	nutrition	whereby	nutrient	support
around	training	can	be	provided	to	promote	performance/recovery	or
withdrawn	to	increase	the	training	stimulus/adaptation.
THEME	1.	PERIODISING	NUTRITION	TO
TRACK	THE	PERIODISATION	OF	TRAINING
AND	COMPETITION
An	athlete’s	peak	performance	is	achieved	over	a	number	of	years,	during	which
they	undertake	various	cycles	of	preparation	and	competition.	Although	many
athletes	may	have	a	long-term	program	aimed	at	an	Olympic	cycle	or	the	years
of	a	college	scholarship,	the	yearly	training	plan	or	annual	competition	calendar
provides	a	useful	snapshot	of	the	concept	of	periodised	training.	Typically,	the
plan	is	centred	around	the	major	competition	for	which	the	athlete	organises	a
performance	peak.	Depending	on	the	logistics	of	the	event	and	the
culture/philosophies	of	the	sport,	the	coach	and	athlete	may	plan	for	a	single	or
double	peak	for	the	year	(for	example,	two	major	competitions,	or	qualification
for	a	national	team	then	competition	in	the	international	event).	The	yearly
training	plan	varies	considerably	between	sports	according	to	the	athlete’s	level
(developmental,	elite,	recreational),	the	type	of	competition	(weekly	fixtures,
tournaments,	single	events	spread	over	a	season)	and	the	type	of	event	(how
much	recovery	is	needed).	However,	there	are	some	common	elements.	These
include:
•	a	generalised	preparation	phase

•	a	generalised	preparation	phase
•	a	period	of	training	that	is	more	specific	to	the	competitive	event
•	competition	itself
•	transition	between	phases,	including	an	off-season	or	rest	period.
Simplistic	overviews	of	the	typical	yearly	training	plans	of	a	team	sport	and
an	individual	sport	are	presented	in	
Figures	9.1
	and	
9.2
	respectively,	noting
differences	in	the	exercise	load	and	goals	across	each	phase	that	create
differences	in	nutritional	needs	and	strategies.	The	basic	unit	of	each	phase	is	the
training	microcycle	(typically,	a	seven-day	rotation),	in	which	a	series	of
workouts	(and	in	some	sports,	competition)	are	sequenced	to	integrate	a	range	of
training	stimuli	that	aim	to	achieve	the	various	physiological,	biomechanical,
technical,	tactical	and	psychological	characteristics	needed	for	success.
Typically,	the	microcycles	are	manipulated	to	gradually	increase	the	important
loading	characteristics	(type,	volume,	intensity)	then	allow	for	a	lighter
‘recovery’	cycle	before	continuing	to	build.	At	times,	an	athlete	might	undertake
a	special	training	block,	such	as	altitude	or	heat	training,	either	to	acclimatise	to
the	environmental	conditions	in	which	a	competition	might	be	held	or	to	gain	the
benefits	of	the	additional	training	stimulus	provided	by	thermal	or	hypoxic
exposure.	In	the	pre-competition	phase,	the	increased	specificity	of	training	will
include	opportunities	to	practice	and	fine-tune	nutritional	strategies	that	are
important	to	performance	in	the	event—for	example,	fluid	and	carbohydrate
intake	during	exercise.	The	taper	period	prior	to	competition	varies	across	sports,
but	typically	involves	a	reduction	in	training	volume	to	allow	the	athlete	to
reduce	their	fatigue	levels	and	reach	a	performance	peak.
Table	9.1.	Examples	of	themes	in	which	nutrients	are	periodised	to	enhance
performance
Theme
Description
Explanation	or	examples
General
tracking	of
energy	and
nutrient
goals
Changing	energy	and	nutrient
intake	(between	days,
microcycles,	macrocycles,
etc.)	to	meet	different	needs
or	goals,	according	to	the
specific	phases	of	the
training	and	competition
plan.
Athletes	undertake	a
carefully	periodised	calendar
involving	different	training
phases	that	prepare	them	to
meet	short-term	and	long-
term	competition	goals.
Changes	in	the	exercise	load,
physique-management	goals,
environmental	conditions	and
many	other	factors	change

many	other	factors	change
the	energy	cost	and	nutrient
needs.	The	athlete	should
manipulate	their	dietary
patterns	to	meet	these
changes	in	needs.
Nutrient
timing
Arranging	nutrient	intake
over	the	day,	and	in	relation
to	training	sessions,	to
enhance	the	metabolic
interaction	between	exercise
and	nutrition.
Carbohydrate	intake	before
and	during	exercise	may
provide	fuel	to	allow	the
athlete	to	train	harder	or
perform	better	in
competition.	Provision	of
nutrients	after	exercise	may
enhance	recovery	or
adaptation;	for	example,
optimal	spread	of	protein
includes	intake	soon	after
exercise	and	every	3–5	hours
over	the	day.	See	
Chapter	10
for	more	detail.
‘Fat
adaptation’
Exposure	to	a	high-fat	diet
for	a	period,	to	increase
capacity	to	use	it	as	a	muscle
fuel	for	exercise,	before
returning	to	usual	diet	or
competition	diet.
Hypothetically,	capacity	for
enhanced	fuel	utilisation
during	exercise	might	occur
if	adaptations	allowing
increased	fat	use	can	be
added	to	scenarios	of	high
carbohydrate	availability	and
utilisation,	leading	to
enhanced	endurance
performance.
‘Training
low’	to
enhance
adaptation
Integrating	specific	sessions
into	the	training	program	in
which	the	standard	practice
of	providing	nutritional
support	to	promote	optimal
performance	is	replaced	by
deliberate	withholding	of
nutritional	support	for	the
There	is	evidence	that	the
absence	of	some	nutrients
around	exercise	leads	to	an
increased	training	stimulus
and/or	an	enhanced
adaptation.	At	present,	this
theory	is	mostly	applied	to
the	theme	of	carbohydrate

nutritional	support	for	the
session.
the	theme	of	carbohydrate
availability.
Figure	9.1.	Example	of	a	yearly	training	plan	for	a	team	sport	(football)	with	a	weekly	match	fixture
Source:	Adapted	from	Burke	and	Jeacocke	2011.
The	periodisation	of	training	clearly	can	be	improved	by	a	careful
periodisation	of	nutrient	intake	and	dietary	practices.	Different	phases	of	training
—from	day	to	day,	within	a	training	block	or	over	the	year—will	have	different
requirements	for	energy	and	muscle	fuel	support,	as	well	as	differences	in	the
focus	on	the	manipulation	or	maintenance	of	physique	(for	example,	to	lose
body	fat,	increase	lean	mass	or	meet	weight	division	targets),	competition
practice,	or	importance	of	key	nutrients	(for	example,	adequate	iron	status	during
altitude	training).	Some	of	the	high-level	differences	and	changes	in	dietary
focus	are	included	in	
Figures	9.1
	and	
9.2
.	Here,	the	annual	training	plan	for	a
team	sport	shows	the	conditioning	phase	of	the	preseason,	with	a	gradual

increase	in	match-specific	skills	and	practice	matches;	the	main	competition
season,	with	a	cycle	of	weekly	matches	culminating	in	finals;	and	an	off-season
(
Figure	9.1
).	Meanwhile,	in	
Figure	9.2
,	a	swimmer	undertakes	base	training	in
which	3–4	week	cycles	of	training	are	integrated,	with	race-specific	training	and
short	race	meets	being	increased	towards	the	major	competition.	Altitude
training	may	be	included	in	the	pre-competition	peaking	plan,	and	a	significant
taper	leads	into	the	multi-day	swimming	meet.	In	the	case	where	a	second
competition	peak	is	planned	(often	the	most	important	competition),	there	is	a
short	transition	leading	into	a	truncated	preparation	cycle.	In	this	sport,	there	are
major	differences	in	the	energy	and	fuel	requirements	of	training,	taper	and
racing,	requiring	major	changes	in	food	intake.
Within	the	training	microcycle/week,	different	approaches	to	the	optimal
nutritional	support	for	each	individual	training	session	should	lead	to	changes	in
daily	energy	intake,	as	well	as	different	emphases	on	the	amount	and	timing	of
intake	of	special	macronutrients	(such	as	carbohydrate	and	protein)	around	a
workout	according	to	their	role	in	‘training	harder/better’	or	‘training	smarter’.
Some	of	these	issues	will	be	discussed	further	in	Theme	3	and	are	illustrated	by
the	summary	of	a	typical	week	of	periodised	carbohydrate	availability	in	a
training	study.	It	is	often	useful	to	create	an	athlete’s	periodised	nutrition	plan
using	an	‘inside	out’	approach	to	build	up	a	series	of	layers.
•	Identify	each	key	training	session	for	the	week	and	the	specific	goals	of	each
session.	Organise	a	targeted	intake	of	the	most	important	nutrients	before,
during	and/or	after	each	workout.
•	Add	the	next	layer	by	organising	eating	occasions	for	the	rest	of	the	day	to
continue	to	support	these	key	sessions,	also	bearing	in	mind	the	athlete’s
‘bigger	picture’	nutritional	needs	such	as	energy	(does	the	athlete	need	to	be	in
energy	balance,	or	to	increase	or	reduce	energy	intake	to	manipulate	body
composition?),	key	micronutrients	(does	the	athlete	need	to	increase	iron
intake?	Calcium	intake?)	and	other	special	issues	(for	example,	food
preferences,	finances,	food	availability,	intolerance).
•	Continue	to	organise	eating	for	days	with	less	important	sessions,	focusing	on
the	bigger	picture	nutrition	issues.	Note	that	there	may	be	less	need	to	focus	on
fuelling	for	these	sessions,	and	even	an	opportunity	to	undertake	some	‘train
low’	sessions	where	workouts	are	deliberately	matched	up	with	low-
carbohydrate	eating	strategies	(see	Theme	3).	On	the	other	hand,	there	may	be
a	need	to	use	low-key	training	days	to	fuel	up	for	the	next	day’s	important
workouts.

Figure	9.2.	Example	of	a	yearly	training	plan	for	an	individual	sport	(swimming)	with	a	double	peak
Source:	Adapted	from	Burke	and	Jeacocke	2011.
The	sophistication	of	this	approach	is	likely	to	lead	to	day-to-day	differences	in
intake	or,	on	occasion,	similar	total	intakes	that	are	spread	differently	between
and	within	days.
Practice	of	event	fluid	and	fuel	intake	strategies	is	an	important	activity	to
build	into	the	periodised	programs	of	endurance,	ultra-endurance	and	some	team
sports.	This	allows	the	athlete	to	individualise	and	fine-tune	a	nutrition	plan	to
defend	homeostasis	and	sustain	fuel	for	optimal	performance	when	it	is	most
needed.	However,	in	addition	to	familiarising	themselves	with	competition
eating	and	drinking	behaviours	or	identifying	the	foods	and	drinks	that	best	suit
the	scenario,	targeted	intake	during	training	sessions	can	help	to	‘train	the	gut’
(Jeukendrup	2017).	For	example,	several	adaptations	may	be	needed	to	help	the
athlete	meet	the	newer	targets	for	aggressive	carbohydrate	intake	during
prolonged	exercise;	these	involve	increasing	gut	tolerance	or	comfort	to	allow
intake	of	greater	volumes	of	fluid	and	food	as	well	as	enhancing	intestinal

absorption	of	glucose	via	an	increase	in	the	number	of	
SGLT-1	transporters
.
SGLT-1	transporter
A	sodium-dependent	glucose	transporter.	Transport	protein	found	on	the	walls	of	cells	lining	the	small
intestine,	responsible	for	the	transport	of	glucose	and	galactose	from	the	small	intestine	into	the
circulation.
THEME	2.	‘FAT	ADAPTATION’
In	many	events,	competitive	success	is	determined	by	the	muscle’s	ability	to
optimise	the	production	of	adenosine	triphosphate	(ATP)	to	meet	the
requirements	of	the	exercise	task.	This	reflects	both	the	size	of	the	available	fuel
stores	and	the	muscle’s	ability	to	efficiently	integrate	their	use,	a	concept	termed
metabolic	flexibility
.	Depletion	of	the	body’s	relatively	limited	carbohydrate
stores	is	a	common	cause	of	fatigue	or	suboptimal	performance	during
endurance	sports	(typically	defined	as	events	involving	prolonged	(>90	minutes)
continuous	exercise).	Therefore,	it	has	been	proposed	that	strategies	that	improve
the	athlete’s	capacity	to	make	better	use	of	their	larger	fat	stores	will	spare	the
muscle	glycogen	stores	and	increase	metabolic	flexibility.	Although	training
achieves	this	outcome,	the	use	of	fat	as	a	muscle	fuel	can	be	further	(and	more
substantially)	increased	by	adapting	to	a	low-carbohydrate,	high-fat	diet
(LCHF).	Indeed,	short-term	(~5	days)	exposure	to	a	diet	providing	<20	per	cent
energy	from	carbohydrate	and	>60	per	cent	from	fat	while	undertaking	both
high-volume	and	high-intensity	training	sessions	achieves	a	robust	retooling	of
the	muscle	to	increase	the	mobilisation,	transport	and	oxidation	of	fat	during
exercise	(Burke	2015).
Metabolic	flexibility
The	ability	of	the	muscle	to	integrate	and	transition	between	fuel	sources	in	response	to	exercise	or
hormonal	stimuli.	This	is	enhanced	by	training.
Two	different	tactics	are	possible,	and	both	have	been	proposed	in	lay	and
scientific	literature	to	‘increase	metabolic	flexibility’.	The	first	protocol	involves
switching	chronically	to	such	a	diet	to	promote	the	use	of	fat	as	the	predominant
muscle	fuel.	If	this	high-fat	diet	is	further	carbohydrate-restricted	(<50	g/day
carbohydrate	plus	~80	per	cent	energy	from	fat),	additional	benefits	from
exposure	to	high	levels	of	circulating	ketone	bodies	are	also	claimed;	this

ketogenic	LCHF	diet	has	recently	
resurfaced	in	popular	interest	(Volek	
et	al.
2015).	Despite	considerable	discussion	about	this	diet	being	‘the	future	of	elite
endurance	sport’	in	lay	and	social	media,	there	is	no	evidence	that	it	enhances
the	performance	of	competitive	sports	of	this	type.	There	is	no	doubt	that	chronic
(>3–4	weeks)	adaptation	to	the	ketogenic	LCHF	substantially	increases	the
muscle’s	capacity	for	fat	oxidation	during	exercise,	providing	effective	fuel
support	for	moderate-intensity	exercise	(Phinney	
et	al.
	1983).	However,	a	recent
study	from	the	Australian	Institute	of	Sport,	in	which	elite	race	walkers	were
adapted	to	the	LCHF,	provided	recognition	of	an	important	biochemical	fact:
that	the	oxygen	cost	of	oxidising	fat	to	produce	a	given	amount	of	ATP	is	greater
than	that	of	carbohydrate	(Burke	
et	al.
	2017).	Although	the	group	of	highly
trained	to	world-class	athletes	was	observed	to	achieve	the	highest	rates	of	fat
oxidation	ever	reported	in	the	literature	across	a	range	of	speeds	relevant	to	the
races	on	the	Olympic	program,	this	was	associated	with	a	loss	of	
economy
	(that
is,	a	greater	amount	of	oxygen	was	required	to	walk	at	the	same	speed).	In
contrast	to	a	control	group	of	walkers	who	undertook	the	same	training	on	a	diet
with	high	carbohydrate	availability,	the	LCHF	walkers	failed	to	improve	their
10,000-metre	race	times	at	the	end	of	the	training	block,	despite	improving	their
aerobic	capacity	to	a	similar	extent.	This	was	attributed,	at	least	partially,	to
reduced	walking	economy—that	is,	a	reduction	in	ATP	production	during	high-
intensity	exercise	when	oxygen	becomes	limiting	in	the	support	of	fat	oxidation.
This	suggests	that	adaptation	to	LCHF	may	be	suited	to	athletes	who	compete	in
events	conducted	entirely	at	moderate	intensities,	but	provides	a	disadvantage	in
endurance	sports	and	ultra-endurance	sports	involving	critical	passages	of
higher-intensity	work,	where	success	is	determined	by	the	ability	to	exercise	as
economically	as	possible	at	the	highest	sustainable	intensity.
However,	a	second	strategy	involves	the	sequential	optimisation	of	the	two
main	muscle	fuel	sources	around	a	competitive	event.	Specifically,	undertaking
adaptation	to	a	high-fat	diet,	before	re-establishing	high	carbohydrate	availability
via	24	hours	of	glycogen	supercompensation	and	carbohydrate	intake	before	and
during	the	event,	might	improve	performance	if	it	could	combine	high
carbohydrate	stores	with	an	ability	to	use	them	more	slowly	due	to	increased	fat
utilisation	(Burke	2015).	This	concept	has	been	studied	by	several	laboratories
using	the	protocol	of	the	shortest	effective	adaptation	to	a	non-ketogenic	LCHF
diet	(5–6	days)	followed	by	a	variety	of	strategies	to	restore	glycogen	and
exogenous	carbohydrate	availability
	around	an	exercise	challenge.	However,
these	attempts	failed	to	find	that	fat	adaptation–carbohydrate	restoration
protocols	enhance	the	performance	of	subsequent	prolonged	exercise,	despite
achieving	remarkable	reductions	in	muscle	glycogen	use	(for	review,	see	Burke

2015).	One	of	the	apparent	explanations	for	this	outcome	is	that,	rather	than
sparing	glycogen	utilisation,	fat	adaptation	impairs	the	muscle’s	ability	to	use	it
as	an	exercise	fuel.	In	addition	to	reducing	rates	of	glycogen	breakdown,	fat
adaptation	has	been	shown	to	impair	muscle	carbohydrate	oxidation	via	down-
regulation	of	the	activity	of	an	important	enzyme	in	the	mitochondria—the
pyruvate	dehydrogenase
	enzyme	complex.	The	consequences	of	reduced
efficiency	of	carbohydrate	oxidation	are	likely	to	manifest	in	a	reduced	ability	to
support	the	ATP	requirements	for	exercise	at	higher	intensities.	Indeed,	a	study
of	the	fat	adaptation–carbohydrate	restoration	protocol	on	performance	in	a	100-
kilometre	cycling	time-trial	found	a	significant	impairment	of	the	cyclists’
ability	to	complete	a	series	of	1-kilometre	sprints	(>90	per	cent	peak	power
output	or	~80	per	cent	VO
2max
)	embedded	within	the	longer	protocol	(Havemann
et	al.
	2006).
Endogenous	carbohydrate	fuels
Carbohydrate	fuel	found	inside	the	muscle	cell	(glycogen).
Exogenous	carbohydrate	fuels
Carbohydrate	fuel	taken	up	into	the	muscle	from	the	circulation	(blood	glucose,	which	is	greatly
supplemented	by	the	intake	of	carbohydrate	during	exercise).
Box	9.1:	Exercise	economy
In	endurance	sports,	the	term	‘exercise	economy’	describes	the	oxygen	cost
of	achieving	a	speed,	power	or	intensity	and	is	highly	correlated	with
competitive	performance.	Although	most	high-calibre	athletes	have	a	high
aerobic	capacity	(VO
2max
),	within	a	group	of	such	athletes,	economy	of
movement—being	able	to	move	quickly	at	a	relatively	low	percentage	of
this	capacity—often	determines	performance.	This	is	especially	important
when	the	event,	or	critical	parts	of	it,	are	conducted	at	intensities	around	the
so-called	anaerobic	threshold.
Pyruvate	dehydrogenase	(PDH)
Mitochondrial	enzyme	complex	that	commits	the	breakdown	products	of	glycolysis	(the	first	step	in

Mitochondrial	enzyme	complex	that	commits	the	breakdown	products	of	glycolysis	(the	first	step	in
glucose	metabolism)	into	the	citric	acid	(Krebs	cycle)	oxidation	pathway.	This	step	is	irreversible	and	is
the	rate	limiting	step	in	carbohydrate	oxidation.
Carbohydrate	availability
Consideration	of	the	timing	and	amount	of	carbohydrate	(CHO)	intake	in	the	athlete’s	diet	in	comparison
to	the	muscle	fuel	costs	of	the	training	or	competition	schedule.	Scenarios	of	‘high	carbohydrate
availability’	cover	strategies	in	which	body	CHO	supplies	can	meet	the	fuel	costs	of	the	exercise
program,	whereas	‘low	carbohydrate	availability’	considers	scenarios	in	which	endogenous	and/or
exogenous	CHO	supplies	are	less	than	muscle	fuel	needs.
Although	other	combinations	of	fat	adaptation	with	or	without	carbohydrate
restoration	are	possible	and	merit	further	study,	the	current	evidence	suggests
that	strategies	to	chronically	adapt	to	high-fat	diets	achieve	a	
reduction
	rather
than	an	improvement	in	metabolic	flexibility.	Indeed,	even	when	glycogen	is
available,	fat-adaptation	strategies	appear	to	interfere	with	the	muscle’s	capacity
to	use	it	as	an	exercise	fuel,	particularly	via	oxidative	pathways.	This	is	likely	to
translate	into	reduced	performance	of	shorter	
endurance	events	conducted	at
these	exercise	intensities	(for	example,	half	marathon,	40-kilometre	cycling
time-trial),	as	well	as	an	impaired	ability	to	undertake	the	critical	activities
within	most	longer	endurance/ultra-endurance	sports	events—the	breakaway,	the
tactical	surge,	attacking	a	hill,	the	sprint	to	the	finish	line—that	determine	the
overall	outcome.	Therefore,	the	range	of	sporting	events	or	scenarios	to	which
they	might	be	suited	is	small.
THEME	3.	‘TRAINING	LOW’	TO	ENHANCE
TRAINING	ADAPTATIONS
Scientific	techniques	now	allow	us	to	study	the	cellular	responses	to	exercise	and
nutrient	stimuli.	Such	techniques	have	provided	the	insight	that,	across	many
areas	of	sports	nutrition,	the	processes	related	to	muscle	adaptation	may	be
opposite	to	those	that	promote	recovery/performance.	Simply	stated,	many
processes	that	promote	recovery	from	exercise	to	restore	homeostasis	and
exercise	capacity	are	based	on	the	provision	of	nutrient	support.	Meanwhile,	the
absence	or	deliberate	withdrawal	of	nutritional	support	may	increase	exercise
stress	and/or	promote	signalling	pathways	that	remodel	the	muscle	and	other
physiological	systems	to	enhance	the	training	response.	Therefore,	the	athlete
may	use	some	nutritional	strategies	to	compete	optimally	or	to	complete	key

training	sessions	as	well	as	possible	(‘train	harder’).	Conversely,	they	may
implement	the	opposite	strategy	to	stimulate	greater	adaptation	to	the	same
exercise	stimulus	(a	‘training	smarter’	approach).	There	is	evidence	that
although	fluid	intake	enhances	endurance	performance	in	the	heat	(see	
Chapter
11
),	deliberate	dehydration	during	training	sessions	may	enhance	the
physiological	and	cardiovascular	processes	of	acclimatisation	(Garrett	
et	al.
2014).	Nevertheless,	the	area	in	which	most	investigation	has	been	undertaken
around	the	theme	of	strategic	addition	or	withholding	of	nutritional	support
involves	the	manipulation	of	carbohydrate	availability.
Dietary	practices	that	promote	high	carbohydrate	availability	are
recommended	on	days	in	which	competition	or	high-quality/demanding	training
sessions	will	benefit	from	optimal	fuelling	of	muscle	and	central	nervous	system
function	(for	instance,.	optimisation	of	work	rates,	perception	of	effort,	skill	and
technique,	concentration	and	mental	processing).	As	outlined	in	Theme	1,
carbohydrate	intake	should	be	integrated	with	other	dietary	goals	to	achieve
adequate	muscle	fuel	from	glycogen	stores	supported	by	additional	exogenous
carbohydrate	supplies	as	well	as	to	support	other	body	processes	requiring
carbohydrate	(such	as	immune	system	support).	Targets	will	consider	both	the
total	amount	of	carbohydrate	and	its	timing	of	intake	around	the	workout	or
event.	Competition	strategies	will	need	to	address	the	practical	considerations
for	consuming	nutrients	around	exercise	(for	example,	event	rules,	opportunity
to	consume	foods/drinks	and	availability	of	supplies).	On	days	when	training	is
of	
lower	volume	and/or	intensity,	it	may	be	less	critical	to	meet	such	targets	or
practice	these	strategies.
More	recently,	it	has	been	shown	that	glycogen	plays	important	roles	in
regulating	the	cellular	activities	that	underpin	the	muscles’	response	to	exercise.
Specifically,	undertaking	a	bout	of	endurance	exercise	with	low	muscle
glycogen	stores	produces	a	coordinated	up-regulation	of	key	signalling	and
regulatory	proteins	in	the	muscle	to	enhance	the	adaptive	processes	following
the	exercise	session	(Bartlett	
et	al.
	2015).	This	can	be	achieved	around	targeted
training	sessions	by	doing	two	training	sessions	in	close	succession	or	with
minimal	carbohydrate	intake	between	them,	to	enable	the	second	bout	to	be
commenced	with	depleted	glycogen	stores.	Strategies	that	restrict	exogenous
carbohydrate	availability	(such	as	training	in	a	fasted	state)	also	promote	an
improved	signalling	response,	although	of	a	lower	magnitude	than	is	the	case	for
exercise	with	low	glycogen	stores	(Bartlett	
et	al.
	2015).	These	strategies	enhance
the	cellular	outcomes	of	endurance	training,	such	as	increased	maximal
mitochondrial	enzyme	activities	and/or	mitochondrial	content	and	increased
rates	of	lipid	oxidation.
Studies	in	sub-elite	athletes,	in	which	these	protocols	have	been	superimposed

Studies	in	sub-elite	athletes,	in	which	these	protocols	have	been	superimposed
on	most	workouts	in	a	training	block,	have	shown	evidence	of	enhanced	cellular
adaptation.	Somewhat	curiously,	however,	these	‘muscle	advantages’	have	not
transferred	to	superior	performance	outcomes	compared	with	the	improvements
seen	following	training	with	high	carbohydrate	availability.	Although	there	are
always	challenges	in	measuring	small	but	important	changes	in	sports
performance,	the	most	likely	explanation	for	the	‘disconnect’	between
mechanistic	and	performance	outcomes	in	these	studies	is	that	training	with	low
carbohydrate	availability	reduced	the	intensity	of	the	training	sessions.	In	other
words,	although	metabolic	benefits	were	achieved	on	one	hand,	they	were
negated	by	the	sacrifice	of	training	quality.	This	suggests	that	‘train	low’
strategies	need	to	be	carefully	integrated	into	the	periodised	training	program	to
carefully	match	the	specific	goal	of	the	session	and	the	larger	goals	of	the
training	period.	Indeed,	a	more	recently	identified	exercise–nutrient	interaction
adds	another	strategy	to	the	carbohydrate	periodisation	options	to	assist	with	this
integration.	Delaying	glycogen	resynthesis	by	withholding	carbohydrate	in	the
hours	after	a	higher-intensity	training	session	has	also	been	shown	to	up-regulate
markers	of	mitochondrial	biogenesis	and	lipid	oxidation	during	the	recovery
phase	without	interfering	with	the	quality	of	the	session.
A	practical	application	of	this	new	strategy	is	that	it	allows	the	sequencing	of
(1)	a	‘train	high’	high-quality	training	session,	(2)	overnight	or	within-day
carbohydrate	restriction	(‘sleep	low’)	and	(3)	a	moderate-intensity	workout
undertaken	without	CHO	intake	(‘
training	low
’).	This	series,	demonstrated	in
two	different	styles	in	the	case	study,	supports	the	important	features	of	each
training	session	while	promoting	enhanced	adaptation.	Studies	have	shown	that
the	integration	of	several	cycles	of	this	
sequence	into	the	weekly	training
programs	of	sub-elite	athletes	achieved	performance	improvements	which	were
not	observed	in	another	group	who	undertook	similar	training	with	a	similar
intake	of	carbohydrate	evenly	distributed	within	and	between	days	(Marquet	
et
al.
	2016).	Such	an	approach	has	been	described	in	the	real-life	preparation	of
elite	endurance	athletes	(Stellingwerff	2013).	A	summary	of	strategies	that
promote	high	or	low	carbohydrate	availability	is	provided	in	
Table	9.2
.
Finally,	it	should	be	recognised	that	studies	of	elite	athletes	appear	to	show
less	responsiveness	to	periodisation	of	carbohydrate	availability	than	seen	in
sub-elite	athletes.	Our	investigation	of	the	three-week	program	of	intensified
training	in	world-class	race	walkers	failed	to	detect	any	difference	in	the
immediate	performance	benefits	achieved	between	the	group	that	consumed	a
periodised	carbohydrate	diet	and	another	group	that	consumed	an	evenly	spread
distribution	of	the	same	total	carbohydrate	intake	to	promote	high	carbohydrate

availability	for	all	training	sessions	(Burke	
et	al.
	2017).	Another	study	of	elite
endurance	athletes	reported	no	benefits	to	training	adaptation	or	performance
gains	from	the	integration	of	a	within-day	sequence	of	a	‘train	high’/’recover
low’/’train	low’	protocol,	three	days	a	week	during	a	training	block,	compared
with	a	diet	providing	more	consistent	CHO	availability	(Gejl	
et	al.
	2017).	It	is
uncertain	whether	the	lack	of	benefits	is	systematically	related	to	the	calibre	of
the	athlete.	For	example,	it	is	possible	that	elite	athletes	have	a	reduced	ceiling
for	improvements	in	which	differences	are	harder	to	detect,	or	an	ability	to
undertake	training	of	such	intensity	and	volume	that	the	stimulus	already
maximises	the	adaptive	response.	Further	investigation	is	merited,	but	it	is	likely
that	most	highly	trained	athletes	already	integrate	some	form	of	periodisation	of
carbohydrate	availability	within	their	schedules,	either	by	design	or	necessity.
The	challenge	for	sports	science	will	be	to	improve	on	what	athletes	achieve
through	trial	and	error.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
Many	of	the	current	frontiers	in	sports	nutrition	involve	the	periodisation	of
nutrient	and	energy	intake—manipulating	intakes	between	and	within	days	to
promote	specific	goals	of	adaptation,	performance	and	recovery.	Each	athlete
has	unique	nutritional	goals	and	requirements,	which	change	according	to	the
specific	time	of	their	periodised	training	and	competition	calendar.	The	optimal
sports	nutrition	plan	will	change	from	day	to	day	to	accommodate	these
changing	goals.	We	await	new	knowledge	about	strategies	to	optimise	the
muscle’s	ability	to	integrate	economical	use	of	its	available	fuel	sources	and	the
potential	for	strategic	withholding	of	nutritional	support	around	some	training
sessions	to	increase	the	exercise	stimulus	and	promote	greater	adaptation.	Of
course,	there	is	often	a	disconnect	between	the	hypothetical	advantages	of	a
single	strategy	and	the	overall	effect	on	performance.	Therefore,	research	must
continue	to	evaluate	the	overall	significance	of	a	strategy	rather	than	focusing	on
a	single	perspective.	Sports	performance	involves	a	complex	mixture	of	whole-
body	physiology	and	central	drive,	as	well	as	muscle	characteristics.	Although	in
many	cases	sports	science	merely	explains	or	supports	practices	that	athletes	and
coaches	have	already	found	to	be	valuable,	advances	in	sports	nutrition
knowledge	arising	from	investigations	of	cellular	changes	are	likely	to	lead	to
new	concepts	and	opportunities	to	enhance	sports	performance.
Table	9.2.	Dietary	strategies	that	achieve	specific	goals	with	carbohydrate

availability
Low	carbohydrate	availability:	strategies	undertaken	to	increase	the
exercise	stimulus	and/or	to	enhance	the	adaptive	response	to	an	exercise
bout
Protocol
Strategy
Chronic	low	carbohydrate
availability	(achieves	low
endogenous	and	exogenous
carbohydrate	availability)
Ketogenic	LCHF	diet	(<50	g/day
carbohydrate,	~80%	energy	as	fat).	Non-
ketogenic	LCHF	diet	(15–20%	energy	as
carbohydrate,	60–65%	energy	as	fat).
Acute	low	carbohydrate
availability	training	(‘train
low’)—endogenous
Undertaking	prior	bout	of	prolonged
sustained	or	intermittent	exercise	followed	by
restricted	intake	of	carbohydrate	to	limit
glycogen	resynthesis	during	recovery	phase.
Note	that	it	is	the	second	session	that	is	done
as	a	‘train	low’	session,	and	the	between-
session	recovery	phase	can	be	brief	(1–2
hours)	or	prolonged	(overnight	or	full	day).
Acute	low	carbohydrate
availability	training	(‘train
low’)—exogenous
Undertaking	workout	in	the	morning	in	a
fasted	state,	and	without	any	carbohydrate
intake	during	the	session.	(Note:	could	also
be	done	for	a	session	later	in	the	day	with
only	water	during	the	session.)
Acute	post-exercise	low
carbohydrate	availability
(‘recover	low’	or	‘sleep
low’—if	overnight)
Restricting	carbohydrate	intake	in	the	hours
after	a	key	workout	to	delay	glycogen
resynthesis.
High	carbohydrate	availability:	strategies	undertaken	to	provide
adequate	fuel	for	the	exercise	session,	promoting	optimal	performance	or
practising	event	nutrition	strategies
Protocol
Strategy
Chronic	high	carbohydrate
availability
Consuming	enough	carbohydrate	in	the
everyday	diet	to	consistently	meet	the	fuel
needs	of	training	or	competition,	with	intake

needs	of	training	or	competition,	with	intake
organised	around	each	exercise	session	to
ensure	optimal	fuelling.
Active	refuelling
Consuming	carbohydrate	in	sufficient
quantities,	starting	soon	after	an	exercise
session	to	optimise	glycogen	resynthesis	after
the	session.
Training	high—endogenous
Consuming	adequate	carbohydrate	in	the
recovery	between	two	sessions,	including	a
pre-session	snack	or	meal	to	provide
adequate	glycogen	for	the	workout	or
competition	event.
Training	high—exogenous
Consuming	carbohydrate	in	the	pre-exercise
meal	to	ensure	high	liver	glycogen	levels	as
well	as	carbohydrate	during	the	session	to
provide	an	ongoing	supply	of	blood	glucose
as	an	additional	muscle	fuel.
Carbohydrate	loading
Organising	an	exercise	taper	in	conjunction
with	high	carbohydrate	intake	to
supercompensate	muscle	glycogen	stores
prior	to	endurance	or	ultra-endurance
competition.
Key	messages
•	Modern	sports	nutrition	promotes	eating	practices	that	are	personalised,
periodised	and	specific	to	the	athlete	and	their	event	and	training	schedule.
•	Just	as	athletes	have	a	periodised	program	of	training	and	competition,
nutrition	strategies	should	be	strategically	organised	to	maximise	the
interaction	between	exercise	and	key	nutrients.
•	Energy	and	macronutrient	intake	should	change	from	day	to	day	(and	even
within	the	day,	according	to	the	needs	of	each	training	session	or	competition
schedule)	according	to	the	specific	exercise	load,	the	goals	of	each	session	and
the	athlete’s	overall	nutrition	goals.
•	An	outcome	of	an	athlete’s	training—especially	for	endurance	sports—is	to
increase	the	muscle’s	ability	to	store	and	use	carbohydrate	and	fat	fuels.	This	is

increase	the	muscle’s	ability	to	store	and	use	carbohydrate	and	fat	fuels.	This	is
known	as	metabolic	flexibility	and	is	particularly	important	in	endurance	and
ultra-endurance	events,	where	the	fuel	needs	of	the	event	may	exceed	the
muscle’s	normal	carbohydrate	stores.
•	Strategies	to	consume	carbohydrate	before,	during	and	after	exercise	increase
carbohydrate	availability	and	are	associated	with	enhanced	capacity	for
prolonged	moderate-to	high-intensity	exercise,	including	the	ability	to	increase
intensity	for	critical	parts	of	the	event.
•	Although	a	high-fat	diet	can	increase	muscle	capacity	to	use	fat	as	an	exercise
fuel,	the	adaptations	also	seem	to	reduce	capacity	for	carbohydrate	utilisation
and	may	decrease	overall	metabolic	flexibility.	Although	fat	can	fuel	exercise
of	moderate	intensity,	it	is	associated	with	reduced	exercise	economy	(a	greater
oxygen	cost	to	produce	the	same	amount	of	ATP	and,	therefore,	the	same
speed	or	power	output).	Compared	to	carbohydrate	fuels,	fat	is	less	able	to
sustain	higher-intensity	exercise	when	the	oxygen	supply	to	the	muscle
becomes	limiting.
•	Despite	the	recent	renewal	of	interest,	low-carbohydrate,	high-fat	(LCHF)	diets
appear	to	be	less	suited	to	the	needs	of	competitive	endurance	athletes	who
need	to	undertake	all	or	critical	parts	of	their	events	at	high	intensities
supported	by	carbohydrate	metabolism.	They	may	be	better	suited	to	ultra-
endurance	events	in	which	the	athlete	competes	at	a	steady	pace	of	moderate-
intensity	exercise.
•	Endurance	athletes	may	make	use	of	the	developing	ideas	around	training
protocols	that	integrate	specific	strategies	of	high	carbohydrate	availability
around	key	training	sessions	(allowing	them	to	‘train	harder’)	alongside
strategies	that	deliberately	achieve	low	carbohydrate	availability	after	or	during
other	sessions	to	increase	the	training	stimulus	and	adaptive	responses
(promoting	‘a	train	smarter’	outcome).
REFERENCES
Bartlett,	J.D.,	Hawley,	J.A.	&	Morton,	J.P.,	2015,	‘Carbohydrate	availability	and
exercise	training	adaptation:	Too	much	of	a	good	thing?’,	
European	Journal
of	Sport	Science,
	vol.	15,	no.	1,	pp.	3–12.
Burke,	L.M.,	2015,	‘Re-examining	high-fat	diets	for	sports	performance:	Did	we
call	the	“nail	in	the	coffin”	too	soon?’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	15,	suppl.	1,	pp.
S33–49.
Burke,	L.M.	&	Jeacocke,	N.A.,	2011,	‘The	basis	of	nutrient	timing	and	its	place
in	sport	and	metabolic	regulation’,	in	Kerksick	C.	(ed.),	
Nutrient	Timing:

Metabolic	Optimisation	for	Health,	Performance	and	Recovery,
	Boca	Raton,
FL:	CRC	Press,	pp.	1–22.
Burke,	L.M.,	Ross,	M.L.,	Garvican-Lewis,	L.A.,	et	al.,	2017,	‘Low	carbohydrate,
high	fat	diet	impairs	exercise	economy	and	negates	the	performance	benefit
from	intensified	training	in	elite	race	walkers’,	
Journal	of	Physiology,
	vol.
595,	no.	9,	pp.	2785–807.
Garrett,	A.T.,	Goosens,	N.G.,	Rehrer,	N.J.	et	al.,	2014,	‘Short-term	heat
acclimation	is	effective	and	may	be	enhanced	rather	than	impaired	by
dehydration’,	
American	Journal	of	Human	Biology,
	vol.	26,	no.	3,	pp.	311–
20.
Gejl,	K.D.,	Thams,	L.,	Hansen,	M.,	et	al.,	2017,	‘No	superior	adaptations	to
carbohydrate	periodisation	in	elite	endurance	athletes’,	
Medicine	&	Science	in
Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	49,	no.	12,	pp.	2486–97.
Havemann,	L.,	West,	S.,	Goedecke,	J.H.,	et	al.,	2006,	‘Fat	adaptation	followed
by	carbohydrate-loading	compromises	high-intensity	sprint’,	
Journal	of
Applied	Physiology,
	vol.	100,	no.	1,	pp.	194–202.
Jeukendrup,	A.E.,	2017,	‘Training	the	gut	for	athletes’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	47,
suppl.	1,	pp.	101–10.
Marquet,	L.A.,	Hausswirth,	C.,	Molle,	O.,	et	al.,	2016,	‘Periodization	of
carbohydrate	intake:	Short-term	effect	on	performance’,	
Nutrients,
	vol.	8,	no.
12,	pp.	755.
Phinney,	S.D.,	Bistrian,	B.R.,	Evans,	W.J.,	et	al.,	1983,	‘The	human	metabolic
response	to	chronic	ketosis	without	caloric	restriction:	Preservation	of
submaximal	exercise	capability	with	reduced	carbohydrate	oxidation’,
Metabolism
,	vol.	32,	no.	8,	pp.	769–76.
Stellingwerff,	T.,	2013,	‘Contemporary	nutrition	approaches	to	optimise	elite
marathon	performance’,	
International	Journal	of	Sports	Physiology	and
Performance,
	vol.	8,	no.	5,	pp.	573–8.
Volek,	J.S.,	Noakes,	T.,	&	Phinney,	S.D.,	2015,	‘Rethinking	fat	as	a	fuel	for
endurance	exercise’,	
European	Journal	of	Sport	Science,
	vol.	15,	no.	1,	pp.
13–20.

Exercise	nutrition
Regina	Belski
Athletes	need	to	consume	a	diet	that	meets	their	energy,	macronutrient	and
micronutrient	requirements,	and	maximises	their	exercise	outcomes	and
recovery.	The	optimal	sports	nutrition	plan	for	each	athlete	will	change	from	day
to	day	to	accommodate	changes	in	training,	goals	and	other	factors	impacting	on
the	athlete.	However,	there	are	some	broad	recommendations	for	what	to	eat	and
drink	before,	during	and	following	exercise,	and	these	will	be	the	focus	of	this
chapter.	The	International	Society	of	Sports	Nutrition	position	stand	(Kerksick	
et
al.
	2017)	on	nutrient	timing	was	updated	in	2017,	and	their	position	is
considered	in	this	chapter.
More	specific	recommendations,	where	available,	are	discussed	in	the
following	chapters,	which	focus	on	sporting	categories:	Endurance	(
Chapter	14
),
Strength	and	power	(
Chapter	15
).	Additionally,	the	emerging	trends	of
macronutrient	periodisation,	‘training	low’	and	fat	adaptation	are	discussed	in
more	detail	in	
Chapter	9
.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES

LEARNING	OUTCOMES
•	understand	the	current	recommendations	for	nutrient	intake	and	hydration	prior
to,	during	and	following	exercise
•	be	able	to	suggest	practical	meal	and	snack	ideas	to	athletes	suitable	for	before,
during	and	after	exercise
•	appreciate	that	all	individual	athletes	are	different,	and	there	is	no	one-size-fits-
all	approach	to	exercise	nutrition.
GENERAL	EATING	FOR	TRAINING	AND
EXERCISE
As	discussed	in	previous	chapters,	it	is	critical	that	athletes	consume	appropriate
intakes	of	energy,	macro-and	micronutrients	for	training	and	competition,	to
have	appropriate	energy	and	
substrate
	availability	for	the	exercise	that	they
undertake	and	to	enable	tissue	growth	and	repair.	This	means	that	it	is	important
to	consider	their	overall	diet	quality,	and	not	solely	what	they	eat	before,	during
and	after	exercise.	There	are	general	macronutrient	intake	recommendations	for
athletes,	which	are	summarised	below.
Substrate
The	substance,	in	this	case	the	macronutrients	carbohydrate,	fat	and	protein,	on	which	enzymes	work.
Fat	intake	recommendations	for	athletes	are	consistent	with	public	health
guidelines	and	should	be	individualised	based	on	training	level	and	body
composition	goals.
Carbohydrate	requirements	vary	greatly	based	on	the	type	and	intensity	of
sport/	exercise	(Burke	
et	al.
	2011):
•	Light	exercise:	3–5	g/kg	of	body	mass	(BM)	per	day
•	Moderate	intensity:	5–7	g/kg	BM/day
•	High	intensity:	6–10	g/kg	BM/day
•	Very	high	intensity:	8–12	g/kg	BM/day.
Protein	requirements	also	vary,	with	current	data	suggesting	that	the	level	of
intake	necessary	to	support	metabolic	adaptation,	repair,	remodelling	and	for
protein	turnover	in	athletes	is	likely	higher	than	previously	recommended,	as

studies’	previous	recommendations	were	based	on	used	methods	which	are	now
known	to	underestimate	protein	needs.	The	latest	International	Society	for	Sports
Nutrition	position	stand	on	protein	and	exercise	(Jäger	
et	al.
	2017)	suggests	that:
•	Daily	intakes	of	1.4	to	2.0	g/kg/day	should	be	the	minimum	recommended
amount	with	higher	amounts	likely	needed	for	athletes	attempting	to	restrict
energy	intake	while	maintaining	muscle	mass.
•	Meeting	the	total	daily	intake	of	high-quality	protein	(containing	essential
amino	acids,	especially	leucine),	preferably	with	evenly	spaced	protein
feedings	of	0.25–0.40	g/kg	BM/dose,	approximately	every	3–4	hours	during
the	day,	should	be	viewed	as	a	primary	area	of	emphasis	for	exercising
individuals.	Higher	doses	may	be	needed	to	maximise	muscle	building	for
older/elderly	individuals.
•	Consuming	30–40	grams	of	
casein	protein
	before	sleep	can	lead	to	acute
increases	in	muscle	protein	synthesis	and	metabolic	rate	without	influencing
fat	breakdown.
Casein	protein
Casein	is	a	family	of	related	phosphoproteins,	which	are	found	in	mammalian	milk.	About	80	per	cent	of
the	protein	in	cow’s	milk	is	casein.
EATING	AND	DRINKING	BEFORE	EXERCISE
The	key	goal	of	eating	and	drinking	before	exercise	is	to	optimise	fuel	and
hydration	levels	and	to	make	an	athlete	feel	well-prepared	for	the	exercise	ahead.
There	is	also	now	evidence	that	the	nutrients	consumed	prior	to	exercise	may
impact	on	muscle	protein	synthesis	following	exercise.
Timing	of	meals
The	right	time	to	consume	foods	before	training	or	competition	will	vary
depending	on	when	the	exercise	is	to	take	place.	It	is	generally	recommended
that	consuming	a	‘main’	meal	about	2–4	hours	prior	to	exercise	will	prevent	any
gastrointestinal	issues	arising;	however,	if	an	athlete	is	training	or	competing
early	in	the	day,	or	planning	a	long	exercise	session,	then	a	small	meal	or	snack
1–2	hours	before	exercise	may	be	advised.

When	working	with	individual	athletes	it	is	important	to	listen	to	their
feedback	regarding	their	preferences	and	past	experience,	as	some	athletes	have
no	digestive	issues	(see	
Chapter	23
)	related	to	eating	even	within	15	minutes	of
commencing	exercise,	while	others	struggle	if	less	than	two	hours	has	passed
since	their	last	meal.	This	simply	emphasises	that	individual	gastric	emptying
rates,	as	well	as	the	type	of	food	consumed,	play	an	important	role	in	what	the
best	pre-exercise	timing	may	be	for	an	individual	athlete.
Content	of	meals
It	is	well	recognised	that	carbohydrate	intake	before	exercise	may	provide	fuel	to
allow	the	athlete	to	train	harder	or	perform	better	during	training	and
competition.	Therefore,	a	meal	or	snack	high	in	carbohydrate	is	generally
recommended,	as	this	enables	the	body	to	top-up	its	blood	glucose	and	glycogen
stores.
Recommendations	vary	regarding	the	amount	and	type	of	carbohydrate	to
consume.	Low	glycaemic	index	(GI)	carbohydrates	(see	
Chapter	4
)	have	been
promoted	as	a	good	choice,	since	they	would	be	more	slowly	absorbed	and	lead
to	a	rise	in	blood	glucose	in	time	for,	or	during,	exercise;	however,	while	some
early	research	suggested	this	outcome,	it	has	not	been	consistently	supported	by
research.	It	appears	that	athletes	can	select	whichever	form	of	carbohydrate	they
tolerate	best,	as	long	as	the	amount	they	can	consume	is	appropriate.	It	is	also
recommended	that	foods	consumed	should	be	those	easier	to	digest—namely,
foods	lower	in	fat	and	fibre.	The	reason	for	lower	fat	choices	is	to	minimise	the
length	of	time	the	food	sits	in	the	stomach,	while	the	lower	fibre	also	allows	for
food	to	transition	faster,	minimising	risk	of	gastrointestinal	discomfort	(see
Chapter	23
).
The	recommended	amount	of	carbohydrate	to	consume	before	exercise
sessions	lasting	more	than	60	minutes	is	1–4	g/kg	BM	in	the	1–4	hours
beforehand.	However,	
generally	speaking,	for	training	or	events	lasting	less	than
90	minutes,	the	consumption	of	a	high-carbohydrate	diet	incorporating	7–12
g/kg	BM	of	carbohydrates	in	the	24	hours	beforehand	should	be	adequate	to
meet	the	needs	of	most	athletes	(Thomas	
et	al.
	2016).
What	about	protein?
While	the	benefits	of	consuming	protein	immediately	after	exercise	are	well

known,	the	benefits	of	consuming	protein	prior	to	exercise	are	less	clear.	Recent
research	suggests	that	protein	consumption	before	and/or	during	exercise	may
further	stimulate	post-exercise	muscle	growth.	Researchers	working	in	this	space
have	also	suggested	that	the	consumption	of	protein	before	or	during	exercise
may	offer	an	even	greater	benefit	during	the	early	stages	of	recovery	from	more
intense	training	sessions	(van	Loon	2014).	The	International	Society	of	Sports
Nutrition	position	stand	on	protein	and	exercise	suggests	that	timing	of	protein
ingestion	should	be	based	on	individual	tolerance,	since	benefits	will	be	derived
from	intake	before	or	after	a	workout	(Jäger	
et	al.
	2017).	Although	it	diminishes
with	time,	the	anabolic	(muscle-building)	effect	of	exercise	lasts	for	at	least	24
hours	(Jäger	
et	al.
	2017).
Research	also	suggests	that	pre-exercise	consumption	of	amino	acids	in
combination	with	carbohydrate	can	achieve	maximal	rates	of	muscle	protein
synthesis	(Jäger	
et	al.
	2017).
Fluid
As	discussed	in	detail	in	the	chapter	on	hydration	(see	
Chapter	11
),	being	well
hydrated	prior	to	commencing	exercise	is	important.	The	current
recommendation	is	to	aim	for	5–10	ml/kg	BM	in	the	2–4	hours	prior	to	exercise.
Depending	on	the	length	of	the	planned	exercise	session,	and	whether	food	is
also	being	consumed,	water	or	sports	drink	may	be	the	best	options.
Pre-exercise	meals	and	snacks
Some	suggestions	of	suitable	pre-exercise	meals	and	snacks	are	listed	in	
Box
10.1
.	These	are	just	ideas	and	may	not	be	suitable	for	all	athletes.	Athletes
should	be	supported	in	developing	individualised	plans	based	on	personal
preferences,	and	these	should	be	trialled	during	training.
Common	problems	reported	by	athletes
Nerves
While	being	nervous	is	not	uncommon	in	athletes	before	exercise,	nerves	can	be
particularly	problematic	prior	to	competition	as	they	can	impact	on	the	athlete’s
ability	to	fuel	up	appropriately.	Athletes	often	report	lack	of	appetite,	a	feeling	of
butterflies	in	their	stomach	and	nausea	as	common	symptoms.	It	is	clear	that
such	issues	can	impact	on	an	athlete’s	ability	to	consume	a	suitable	meal	or

such	issues	can	impact	on	an	athlete’s	ability	to	consume	a	suitable	meal	or
snack	prior	to	training	or	competition.	Athletes	should	seek	support	to	develop
specific	strategies	to	manage	and	overcome	these	challenges.	This	may	include
finding	foods	that	might	be	tolerated	even	with	nausea,	such	as	dry	toast	or	plain
pasta,	or,	if	pre-exercise	eating	is	not	possible,	planning	the	meal	the	night
before	an	early	session	to	maximise	nutrition	and	hydration	status.
Box	10.1:	Examples	of	suitable	pre-exercise	meals/snacks
PRE-EXERCISE	MEAL	(2–4	HOURS	PRIOR)
•	Breakfast	cereal	with	low-fat	milk
•	Pancakes	with	jam/fruit	and	fruit	yoghurt
•	Sandwiches/rolls	with	meat	filling
•	Pasta	dish	with	low-fat,	tomato-based	sauce
•	Low-fat	rice	dish
PRE-EXERCISE	SNACK	(1–2	HOURS	PRIOR)
•	Fruit
•	Fruit	yoghurt
•	Low-fat	fruit	smoothie
•	Sports	bar/Cereal	bar
•	Toast	with	honey/jam
•	Low-fat	creamed	rice
PRE-EXERCISE	SNACK	(<1	HOUR	PRIOR)
•	Carbohydrate	gel
•	Sports	bar
•	Sports	drink
•	Jelly	lollies,	
e.g.
	jelly	babies
Gastrointestinal	discomfort
Gastrointestinal	discomfort,	which	may	include	abdominal	pain,	flatulence	and

diarrhoea,	can	also	be	caused	by	nerves	or	by	some	of	the	foods/fluids	being
consumed	by	the	athlete.	This	topic	is	discussed	in	more	detail	in	
Chapter	23
.
Athletes	should	never	be	encouraged	to	try	a	new	type,	amount	or	timing	of
food/supplement/sports	drink	during	a	competition,	and	should	experiment	with
new	foods	and	fluids	only	
during	training	sessions	where	they	have	control	over
the	environment	and	situation.	The	drinks/foods/gels	that	will	be	provided	at
competitions	should	be	identified	and	trialled	well	in	advance.	If	these	options
are	not	well	tolerated	by	the	athlete,	individual	nutrition	provision	needs	to	be
planned,	practised	and	brought	to	the	competition.
EATING	AND	DRINKING	DURING	EXERCISE
Generally	speaking	there	are	two	key	approaches	to	food	and	fluid	provision
during	exercise;	one	aims	to	replace	as	much	of	the	fuel	and	fluid	used	during
the	exercise	session	as	possible	with	the	aim	of	maximising	exercise
performance,	and	the	other	focuses	on	the	concept	of	‘training	low’	to	enhance
adaptation.
Replacing	nutrient	and	fluid	loss
For	exercise	sessions	up	to	90	minutes,	it	is	generally	sufficient	to	simply	replace
fluid	losses.	For	most	athletes,	water	will	be	sufficient;	however,	for	those
athletes	who	are	big	or	‘salty’	sweaters,	beverages	containing	
electrolytes
	may
be	a	better	choice,	particularly	as	sweat	rates	can	vary	considerably	(from	0.3	to
2.4	L	per	hour).	Furthermore,	if	athletes	are	training	without	having	consumed
an	appropriate	meal	or	snack	containing	carbohydrate	leading	up	to	the	session,
the	consumption	of	carbohydrates	via	sports	drinks	is	also	often	advised.
Electrolytes
Salts	that	dissolve	in	water	and	disassociate	into	charged	particles	called	ions.
Stop-start	sports
Sports	in	which	the	play	is	frequently	stopped	due	to	the	ball	going	out	of	play	or	the	referee	stopping
play	because	of	violations	of	the	rules.	This	includes	sports	like	basketball	and	football.
For	longer	sessions,	especially	those	focused	on	endurance-type	exercise,	it	is
important	for	athletes	to	consider	their	likely	fluid	and	nutrient	losses	and	plan

important	for	athletes	to	consider	their	likely	fluid	and	nutrient	losses	and	plan
suitable	drinks/snacks	to	maintain	their	fuel	and	hydration	levels	and	optimise
the	exercise	session.
The	recommended	amount	of	carbohydrate	to	consume	during	training/events
varies	based	on	length	and	intensity,	with	30–60	grams	per	hour	recommended
for	endurance	sports	and	
stop-start	sports
	lasting	1–2.5	hours	and	as	much	as
90	grams	per	hour	(mixed-substrate)	for	ultra-endurance	sessions/sports	lasting
in	excess	of	2.5–3	hours	(Thomas	
et	al.
	2016).	More	details	on	the	needs	of
endurance	athletes,	and	strategies	for	fuelling	endurance	events,	can	be	found	in
Chapter	14
.
There	are	also	specific	recommendations	from	the	International	Society	of
Sports	Nutrition	based	on	the	latest	research	(Kerksick	
et	al.
	2017).
•	For	extended	bouts	of	high-intensity	exercise	lasting	over	an	hour,
carbohydrate	should	be	consumed	at	a	rate	of	30–60	grams	of	carbohydrate	per
hour	in	a	6–8	per	cent	carbohydrate-electrolyte	solution	every	10–15	minutes
throughout	the	entire	exercise	session.
•	When	carbohydrate	consumption	during	exercise	is	inadequate,	adding	protein
(0.25	g	of	protein/kg	body	weight	per	hour	of	endurance	exercise)	may	help
increase	performance,	minimise	muscle	damage	and	improve	glycogen
resynthesis.
•	Carbohydrate	ingestion	throughout	resistance	exercise	has	also	been	shown	to
promote	steady	blood	sugar	levels	and	higher	glycogen	stores.
It	is	important	to	consider	what	the	athlete	will	tolerate	best,	as	some	athletes
have	no	problems	consuming	sports	drink	and	a	sandwich	during	an	event	while
others	struggle	even	to	drink	water	without	experiencing	gastrointestinal	issues.
Nutrition	plans	should	be	based	not	only	on	the	type	and	length	of	exercise,	but
also	on	the	individual	needs	and	preferences	of	the	athlete.
As	discussed	in	detail	in	
Chapter	11
,	the	current	recommendation	is	to	aim	to
consume	400–800	mL/hour	of	fluid	during	exercise,	with	the	aim	of	avoiding
body-water	losses	of	more	than	two	per	cent.	Cold	drinks	are	recommended	for
hot	conditions.
It	is	important	to	note	that	during	exercise	sessions	exceeding	two	hours	in
length,	gastrointestinal	tolerance	and	availability	of	fluids	will	restrict	what
fluids	will	be	accessible	and	tolerable	to	athletes.	This	makes	it	unlikely	that
athletes	will	be	able	to	match	sweat	fluid	losses	with	fluid	intakes	(Garth	&
Burke	2013).	Athletes	should	be	encouraged	to	commence	exercise	well-
hydrated	and	to	replace	fluid	losses	after	exercise.
Suitable	drinks	and	snacks	during	exercise

Suitable	drinks	and	snacks	during	exercise
Some	suggestions	of	suitable	snacks	to	consume	during	exercise	are	listed
below.	These	are	just	ideas	and	may	not	be	suitable	for	all	athletes.	Athletes
should	be	supported	to	develop	individualised	plans	based	on	personal
preferences.
Suitable	snacks/drinks	providing	30–40	grams	of	carbohydrate:
•	600	mL	sports	drink
•	1	sports	bar
•	1.5	carbohydrate	gels
•	40	g	jelly	lollies
•	1.5	cereal	bars.
Training	low
The	concept	of	‘training	low’	to	enhance	adaptation	generally	refers	to	training
with	low	carbohydrate	availability,	but	may	also	be	practised	with	other
nutrients.	The	aim	of	this	approach	is	to	integrate	specific	sessions	into	a	training
program	where	the	standard	practice	of	providing	nutritional	support	to	promote
optimal	performance	is	replaced	by	deliberately	withholding	nutritional	support
prior	to	and	during	the	session.	There	
is	some	evidence	to	suggest	that	the
absence	of	certain	nutrients	(for	instance,	carbohydrate)	around	exercise	leads	to
an	increased	training	stimulus	and/or	an	enhanced	metabolic	adaptation	to
exercise.	There	are	numerous	different	ways	in	which	athletes	can	‘train	low’,
with	different	metabolic	outcomes.	Refer	back	to	
Chapter	9
	for	more	detail
regarding	the	evidence	and	recommendations	for	training	low.
EATING	AND	DRINKING	AFTER	EXERCISE
The	key	aim	of	eating	and	drinking	after	exercise	is	to	replenish	the	body’s	fluid
and	fuel	stores	used	during	exercise	and	optimise	recovery	post-exercise.	The
provision	of	nutrients	after	exercise	may	also	enhance	metabolic	adaptations	to
exercise.
Carbohydrates
One	of	the	goals	of	post-exercise	nutrition	is	to	restore	glycogen	levels;	this

requires	adequate	carbohydrate	intake	and	time.	The	glycogen	resynthesis	rate
appears	to	be	around	five	per	cent	per	hour.	The	consumption	of	1–1.2	g/kg
BM/h	of	carbohydrate	early	in	the	recovery	period	(during	the	first	4–6	hours)
has	been	shown	to	be	effective	in	maximising	refuelling	time	between	workouts
(Thomas	
et	al.
	2016).
Protein
Research	has	shown	that	the	consumption	of	high-quality	protein	sources	(0.25
g/kg	BM	or	an	absolute	dose	of	20–40	grams),	rich	in	essential	amino	acids,
within	two	hours	of	completion	of	exercise	results	in	increases	in	muscle	protein
synthesis.	(Jäger	
et	al.
	2017).
What	about	if	rapid	recovery	is	needed?
During	times	of	intensive	training	or	competition,	rapid	recovery	and	restoration
of	glycogen	stores	may	be	required.	Where	there	is	less	than	four	hours	of
recovery	time	available,	the	following	strategies—as	recommended	by	the
International	Society	of	Sports	Nutrition	based	on	current	research—should	be
considered	(Kerksick	
et	al.
	2017).
•	Intensive	carbohydrate	refeeding	(1.2	g/kg	BM/h)	with	high	glycaemic	index
carbohydrates	(see	
Chapter	4
).
•	Consumption	of	caffeine	(3–8	mg/kg	BM).
•	Combination	of	carbohydrates	(0.8	g/kg	BM/h)	with	protein	(0.2–0.4	g/kg
BM/h).
Fluid
Hydration	and	rehydration	are	discussed	in	detail	in	
Chapter	11
.	After	exercise,
it	is	recommended	that	athletes	replace	125–150	per	cent	of	fluid	loss.	For
example,	if	an	athlete	has	lost	2	kilograms	of	weight	during	exercise,	they	should
aim	to	consume	2.5–3	litres	of	fluid	following	exercise	to	replace	the	loss.
Eating	solid	food	at	this	time	will	help	maximise	fluid	retention.
Box	10.2:	Snack/meal	options	for	after	exercise
•	Sports	drink	with	low-fat	fruit	yoghurt

•	Sports	drink	with	low-fat	fruit	yoghurt
•	Low-fat	chocolate	milk
•	Liquid	breakfast	substitute	drinks
•	Fruit	smoothies	made	with	low-fat	milk/yoghurt
•	Pancakes	with	fruit	and	low-fat	yoghurt
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	understand	that	the	athlete’s	general
nutrition	is	important	for	optimal	health	and	wellbeing	and	poor	general	nutrition
choices	will	impact	on	exercise	performance.	Making	appropriate	choices
throughout	the	day,	as	well	as	optimising	food	and	fluid	intake	around	exercise,
will	help	the	athlete	to	undertake	quality	training	sessions.	The	aim	of	food	and
drink	consumption	prior	to	exercise	is	to	optimise	fuel	and	hydration	levels	and
enable	an	athlete	to	feel	prepared	for	exercise.	During	exercise,	the	key	objective
is	to	try	to	manage	the	fluid	loss	and	refuel	with	carbohydrate	to	maintain	blood
glucose	levels	and	train	harder	or	perform	better.	Following	an	exercise	session,
the	aim	is	to	refuel,	rehydrate	and	enhance	recovery	or	adaptation.	Nutrition
plans	should	be	developed	using	the	most	suitable	choices	based	on	athletes’
specific	requirements	and	personal	dietary	preferences.
Key	messages
•	Athletes’	general	diets	are	most	important	for	optimal	health	and	exercise
performance.
•	Training	and	competition	nutrition	should	be	planned	in	accordance	with	the
individual	athlete’s	training,	goals	and	preferences.
•	Nutrition	should	be	provided	before	exercise	to	be	well	hydrated	with	full
glycogen	stores.
•	During	exercise,	athletes	should	aim	to	top-up	as	much	lost	fluid	and
carbohydrate	as	possible,	or	utilise	appropriate	‘train	low’	techniques.
•	After	exercise,	athletes	should	aim	to	rehydrate	and	refuel	in	time	for	the	next
exercise	session,	as	well	as	consume	the	appropriate	type	and	amount	of
nutrients	to	support	metabolic	adaptation	and	muscle	growth.

REFERENCES
Burke,	L.M.,	Hawley,	J.A.,	Wong,	S.H.	et	al.,	2011,	‘Carbohydrates	for	training
and	competition’,	
Journal	of	Sports	Sciences,
	vol.	29,	suppl.	1,	pp.	S17–27.
Jäger,	R.,	Kerksick,	C.M.,	Campbell,	B.I.	et	al.,	2017,	‘International	Society	of
Sports	Nutrition	position	stand:	Protein	and	exercise’,	
Journal	of	the
International	Society	of	Sports	Nutrition,
	vol.	14,	suppl	2,	p.	20.
Garth,	A.K.	&	Burke,	L.M.,	2013,	‘What	do	athletes	drink	during	competitive
sporting	activities?’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	43,	no.	7,	pp.	539–64.
Kerksick,	C.M.,	Arent,	S.,	Schoenfeld,	B.J.,	et	al.,	2017,	‘International	Society
of	Sports	Nutrition	position	stand:	Nutrient	timing’,	
Journal	of	the
International	Society	of	Sports	Nutrition
,	vol.	14,	suppl.	2,	p.	33.
Thomas,	D.T.,	Erdman,	K.A.	&	Burke,	L.M.,	2016,	‘American	College	of	Sports
Medicine	Joint	Position	Statement.	Nutrition	and	Athletic	Performance’,
Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	48,	no.	3,	pp.	543–68.
van	Loon,	L.J.,	2014,	‘Is	there	a	need	for	protein	ingestion	during	exercise?’,
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	44,	suppl.	1,	pp.	105–11.

Hydration
Ben	Desbrow	and	Christopher	Irwin
In	this	chapter,	we	explore	the	role	of	water	as	an	essential	nutrient	and	the
physiological	basis	of	hydration.	Firstly,	we	discuss	the	importance	of	hydration
and	the	effects	of	dehydration	on	performance.	We	then	examine	methods	of
hydration	assessment,	recommendations	for	staying	hydrated	and	explore
drinking	strategies	that	promote	rehydration	during	and	after	exercise.	We	also
examine	the	role	of	beverage	ingredients	and	how	they	influence	rehydration.
Finally,	we	explore	the	impact	of	drinking	alcohol	on	hydration,	recovery	and
performance.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	understand	the	fundamental	roles	of	water	in	the	human	body
•	describe	the	effects	of	dehydration	on	performance
•	describe	hydration	assessment	techniques	and	the	strengths	and	limitations	of
various	methods

various	methods
•	identify	appropriate	drinking	strategies	to	optimise	rehydration	for	athletes
•	understand	the	interaction	between	food	and	fluid	combinations	on	rehydration
•	describe	the	effect	of	alcohol	on	recovery	and	rehydration.
THE	IMPORTANCE	OF	HYDRATION
Water	accounts	for	approximately	50–70	per	cent	of	body	weight	(BW)	in
humans.	However,	this	volume	varies	with	body	composition	(lean	and	fat	mass)
and	is	therefore	generally	greater	in	males	(60–70	per	cent	BW)	compared	to
females	(50–55	per	cent	BW)	(Oppliger	&	Bartok	2002;	Jequier	&	Constant
2010).
Hydrolytic	reaction
When	the	addition	of	water	to	another	compound	leads	to	the	formation	of	two	or	more	products;	for
example,	the	catalytic	conversion	of	starch	to	sugar.
Total	body	water
The	total	sum	of	water	in	the	body.	It	is	the	sum	of	water	within	the	cells	(intracellular)	and	outside	the
cells	(extracellular).
Water	has	many	important	roles	in	the	body.	It	serves	as	a	chemical	solvent,	a
substrate	for	
hydrolytic	reactions
,	a	transport	medium	for	nutrients	and
metabolic	waste	products,	a	shock-absorbent,	lubricant	(for	example,	to	the
gastrointestinal	and	respiratory	tracts)	and	a	structural	component.	Almost	every
biological	process	occurring	in	the	human	body	is	dependent	on	the	maintenance
of	
total	body	water
	(TBW)	balance.	Water	loss	occurs	naturally	in	humans	as
part	of	daily	living.	The	majority	of	daily	losses	occur	through	urine	(~1–2
litres),	faeces	(~200	ml),	respiration	(~250–400	ml),	and	via	the	skin	(~450–500
ml)	(Maughan	2003).	In	general,	this	equates	to	about	2–3	litres	per	day	(L·d
–1
)
for	a	sedentary	adult	(Jequier	&	Constant	2010).	However,	these	amounts	are
influenced	by	many	factors,	such	as	dietary	intake,	environmental	conditions	and
physical	activity	levels.	Individuals	exposed	to	extremely	hot	climates,	and	those
who	are	physically	active,	are	likely	to	have	increased	losses.	But	these	losses
are	usually	corrected	quite	rapidly	(within	24	hours)	provided	adequate	fluid

consumption	occurs	(Cheuvront	
et	al.
	2004).
Thermoregulation
The	maintenance	of	the	body	at	a	particular	temperature	regardless	of	the	external	temperature.
For	athletes,	it	is	the	cardiovascular	and	
thermoregulatory
	functions	of	water
that	are	most	critical	to	performance	(Murray	2007).	The	energetic	demands	of
muscular	activity	(primarily,	the	demand	for	oxygen)	are	met	via	circulating
blood,	the	major	component	of	which	is	water.	Circulating	blood	also
contributes	to	thermoregulation,	transporting	excess	heat	generated	via	substrate
oxidation	from	the	body’s	core	to	the	surface	of	the	skin,	where	it	can	be	lost	to
the	environment.	Thus,	it	is	important	that	athletes	are	sufficiently	hydrated	to
optimise	these	processes.
EXERCISE	AND	DEHYDRATION
During	exercise	the	body	cools	itself	by	sweating,	but	this	ultimately	results	in
the	loss	of	body	fluid.	If	this	fluid	loss	is	not	replaced,	it	can	lead	to	dehydration.
Generally,	the	body	is	capable	of	tolerating	low	to	moderate	levels	of
dehydration	(<2%	BW	loss);	however,	as	levels	of	dehydration	rise	(≥2%	BW
loss),	performance	(physical	and	mental)	may	become	impaired	(Murray	2007).
Dehydration	can	cause:
•	increased	heart	rate
•	increased	perception	of	effort
•	increased	fatigue
•	impaired	physical	performance	(for	example,	strength,	endurance)
•	impaired	cognitive	performance	(for	example,	concentration,	decision-making,
skill	and	coordination)
•	gastrointestinal	issues,	such	as	nausea,	vomiting	and	diarrhoea
•	increased	risk	of	heat	illness.
For	that	reason,	current	practical	guidelines	for	athletes	encourage
consumption	of	sufficient	volumes	of	fluid	before,	during	and	after	exercise	to
minimise	dehydration.
Exercise	can	also	elicit	high	electrolyte	losses	(mainly	sodium)	through	the
sweating	response,	particularly	in	warm	to	hot	conditions.	While	sweat	sodium
concentrations	vary	between	individuals	(depending	on	factors	such	as	sweat

concentrations	vary	between	individuals	(depending	on	factors	such	as	sweat
rate,	genetics,	diet	and	acclimation),	in	the	event	of	large	fluid	losses	most
athletes	need	to	also	consider	replacing	lost	electrolytes.
HYDRATION	ASSESSMENT
There	is	no	general	agreement	on	the	most	effective	method	of	assessing	an
individual’s	hydration	status	at	any	single	point	in	time.	There	are,	however,	a
number	of	techniques	commonly	used	for	the	assessment	of	hydration	status.
These	typically	involve	either	whole	body,	blood,	urinary	or	sensory
measurements.	Some	of	these	methods	are	only	suitable	for	use	in	laboratory
environments,	while	others	can	be	used	easily	in	the	field.	A	number	of	novel
techniques	have	also	been	developed	in	an	effort	to	devise	ways	of	accurately
measuring	changes	in	hydration	status	without	the	need	to	remove	clothing	or
provide	invasive	biological	specimens.	However,	these	methods	are	still
undergoing	experimental	testing	to	determine	their	validity.
Each	method	has	its	own	specific	strengths	and	limitations,	and	the	process	of
selecting	the	most	suitable	technique	is	dependent	on	several	factors	that
influence	practicality,	such	as	cost,	the	technical	expertise	required,	portability
and	efficiency	(
Table	11.1
).	In	addition,	while	some	methods	are	able	to	provide
valid	assessments	of	hydration	status	across	acute	and	chronic	time	points,	others
are	only	valid	under	specific	conditions.	For	example,	most	urine	markers	are
not	considered	to	be	a	valid	measure	of	current	hydration	status	as	these	values
are	subject	to	large	variations	in	response	to	rapid	consumption	of	fluid	(Sawka
et	al.
	2007).	However,	they	may	be	used	after	a	standardised	period	(for
example,	on	waking	or	after	a	period	of	restricted	fluid	consumption).
Monitoring	urine	colour	is	a	convenient	hydration	assessment	tool	and	typically
indicates	prior	fluid	consumption	behaviour.	That	is,	when	optimal	amounts	of
fluid	are	consumed,	urine	should	be	pale	yellow	or	clear.	If	inadequate	fluid	has
been	consumed,	urine	will	be	dark	yellow.	Urine	colour	can	be	monitored	easily
by	comparing	against	the	eight-point	urine	colour	chart	(Armstrong	
et	al.
	1998).
However,	as	with	all	urine	markers	of	hydration	status,	urine	colour	is	influenced
by	rapid	consumption	of	fluid,	which	facilitates	
diuresis
.	Therefore,	it	is	best
used	as	an	indicator	of	first	morning	hydration	status,	upon	waking	and	prior	to
ingestion	of	any	fluid.
Table	11.1.	Summary	of	commonly	used	hydration	assessment	techniques
Practicality

Measure
Purpose
Cost
Analysis
time
Technical
expertise
Portability
Overall
practicality
Field	measures
Urine
specific
gravity
Fluid
concentration
2
1
1
1
M/H
Urine	colour
Fluid
concentration
1
1
1
1
H
Body	weight
change
TBW	change
1
1
1
1
H
Rating	of
thirst
TBW	change
1
1
1
1
H
Laboratory	measures
Isotope
dilution
TBW	content
3
3
3
3
L
Neuron
activation
TBW	content
3
3
3
3
L
Bioelectrical
impedance
TBW	content
2
3
2
2
M
Haematocrit
&
haemoglobin
Plasma
volume
change
2
2
3
3
M
Plasma
osmolality
Fluid
concentration
3
2
3
3
M/L
Urine
osmolality
Fluid
concentration
3
2
3
3
M/L
Experimental	measures
Tear
osmolarity
Fluid
concentration
3
1
2
2
M

osmolarity
concentration
Salivary
osmolality
Fluid
concentration
3
2
3
3
M/L
Notes:	TBW:	Total	body	water;	1:	Small/Little/Portable;	2:	Moderate/Intermediate;	3:	Great/Much/Not
portable;	A:	Acute;	C:	Chronic;	H:	High;	L:	Low;	M:	Moderate
Source:	Adapted	from	Sawka	
et	al.
	2007	and	Armstrong	2005.
Diuresis
Increased	or	excessive	production	of	urine.
The	precision,	accuracy	and	reliability	of	the	assessment	techniques	are
particularly	important	and	should	be	prioritised,	within	the	constraints	of
technical	expertise	and	cost,	when	selecting	the	most	appropriate	method	to
monitor	the	hydration	status	of	athletes.
BEFORE,	DURING	AND	AFTER	SPORT	FLUID
CONSIDERATIONS
An	athlete’s	choice	of	a	beverage	(and	the	volume	they	consume)	can	be
influenced	by	many	factors,	such	as	availability,	palatability,	thirst,
gastrointestinal	tolerance,	temperature,	nutrition	knowledge	and	cost.	It	is	also
important	to	recognise	that	while	fluid	consumption	may	offset	the	effects	of
dehydration,	it	may	also	facilitate	the	ingestion	of	other	ingredients	(for
example,	carbohydrate)	known	to	enhance	performance.	The	timing	of
consumption	relative	to	the	exercise	bout	has	a	significant	influence	on	beverage
recommendations	given	to	athletes	to	optimise	performance	(see	
Table	11.2
).
During	exercise	≤120	min,	gastrointestinal	tolerance	(see	
Chapter	23
)	and
access	to	fluids	restrict	the	beverages	that	are	likely	to	be	well	tolerated	by
athletes.	Water	and	carbohydrate-electrolyte	beverages	(sports	drinks)	are
commonly	recommended	for	consumption	during	events	involving	high-
intensity,	short-duration	competition	(such	as	netball,	football	and	basketball).
While	commercial	sports	drinks	are	specifically	formulated	to	be	well	tolerated
and	utilised	under	conditions	of	physical	exertion	(containing	6–8	per	cent
carbohydrate	and	10–25	per	cent	mmol·L
–1
	of	sodium),	during	competition
athletes	are	unlikely	to	match	sweat	fluid	losses	with	beverage	intakes	(Garth	&
Burke	2013).	This	suggests	that	athletes	need	to	ensure	they	commence

competition	well	hydrated	and/or	aim	to	replace	fluid	deficits	following	exercise.
Table	11.2.	Summary	of	fluid	recommendations	prior	to,	during	and
following	exercise	to	optimise	performance
Recommendation
Other	considerations
Prior	to	exercise
5–10	ml·kg
–1
	BW	2–
4	hrs	before	exercise
Use	urine	colour	to	guide
volume.	Avoid	high-fat
fluids.
During	exercise
Typically	400–800
ml·h
–1
	Avoid	deficit
<2%	BW
Sweat	rates	can	vary
considerably	(range	0.3–2.4
L·h
–1
).	Drink	cold	beverages
in	hot	conditions.
Following	exercise
Replace	125–150%
of	fluid	deficit
Food	consumption	likely	to
improve	fluid	retention.
Source:	Adapted	from	Nutrition	and	Athletic	Performance:	Position	of	Dietitians	of	Canada,	the	Academy
of	Nutrition	and	Dietetics	and	the	American	College	of	Sports	Medicine	2016.
Effectiveness	of	different	beverages	on	fluid	retention
In	hydration	science,	the	effect	of	any	beverage	on	body	fluid	status	is	judged	by
the	balance	between	how	much	the	body	retains	of	any	volume	that	is	consumed.
Accurately	establishing	retention	rates	of	different	beverages	typically	involves
laboratory	research	and	the	prescription	of	a	fixed	volume	of	a	beverage	under
standardised	conditions,	followed	by	a	period	of	monitoring	fluid	losses.
Recently,	the	‘
beverage	hydration	index
’	(BHI)	has	been	established	to
describe	the	fluid	retention	capacity	of	different	beverages	by	standardising
values	to	the	retention	of	still	water	(Maughan	
et	al.
	2016).	The	BHI	research
findings	indicate	that	many	beverages	are	as	effective	at	delivering	fluid	as
water.	Only	milk	beverages	and	oral	rehydration	solutions	produced	superior
fluid	retention	to	water	(
Table	11.3
).
Beverage-hydration	index
An	index	system	that	has	been	developed	to	describe	the	fluid	retention	capacity	of	different	beverages
by	standardising	values	to	the	retention	of	still	water.

One	strength	of	the	BHI	is	that	it	recognises	that	all	beverages	make	a
contribution	to	total	fluid	intake	(ranking	some	as	more	effective	than	others).	In
contrast,	many	fluid	recommendations	focus	on	avoiding	certain	beverages	(such
as	caffeinated	
beverages	or	drinks	containing	alcohol).	However,	individuals
may	respond	to	this	by	avoiding	and	not	replacing	these	beverages,	leading	to	a
reduction	in	total	fluid	intake.
Table	11.3.	Summary	of	fluid	retention	from	commonly	consumed
beverages	when	consumed	without	food
Beverages	with	inferior
fluid	retention	to	water
Beverages	with	similar
fluid	retention	to	water
Beverages	with
superior	fluid
retention	to	water
Beer	(>4	%ABV)
Sparkling	water
Sports	drinks
Cola
Diet	cola
Tea	(hot	or	iced)
Coffee
Full-fat	milk
Skim	milk
Soy	milk
Milk-based	meal
replacements
Oral	rehydration
solutions
Beer	(≤4%	ABV)
Note:	ABV	=	Alcohol	by	volume
Source:	Adapted	from	Maughan	
et	al.
	2016,	Desbrow	
et	al.
	2013,	2014.
IMPACT	OF	FOOD
Since	most	fluid	consumed	by	athletes	is	co-ingested	with	meals	and/or	snacks,
the	influence	of	food	on	rehydration	has	significant	practical	application.
Consuming	food	may	impact	on	rehydration	in	a	number	of	ways.	Firstly,	food
may	provide	nutrients	(such	as	carbohydrate,	protein	or	sodium)	that	directly
assist	with	fluid	recovery.	In	addition,	the	interaction	of	food	and	fluid	may
influence	the	volume	of	drink	consumed,	thereby	impacting	total	fluid	intake.	To
date,	only	four	studies	have	investigated	rehydration	in	settings	where	athletes
were	encouraged	to	consume	food	(
Table	11.4
).	Collectively,	these	studies
indicate	that	the	ingestion	of	food	is	likely	to	facilitate	rehydration	following
exercise.	Two	of	these	investigations	allowed	participants	to	self-select	the

volume	of	fluid	they	consumed	(that	is,	voluntary	rather	than	prescribed	fluid
intake),	thereby	allowing	the	interaction	between	food	and	the	volume	of	fluid
consumed	to	be	explored.
Importantly,	when	drinking	and	eating	voluntarily	both	males	and	females
appear	to	achieve	similar	levels	of	fluid	retention,	irrespective	of	beverage	type.
However,	the	consumption	of	high-energy	(kJ)	beverages	such	as	sports	drinks
or	milk-based	drinks	is	likely	to	result	in	greater	total	energy	consumption	and
differences	in	nutrient	intakes	compared	to	the	consumption	of	water	with	food
(Campagnolo	
et	al.
	2017).	Therefore,	fluid	choice	post-exercise	when	food	is
available	should	be	strategic	and	
considered.	Selection	should	be	influenced	by
immediate	post-exercise	nutrition	requirements,	as	well	as	overall	dietary	intake
goals.
Table	11.4.	Studies	investigating	the	interaction	of	food	on	rehydration
Study
Food	provided
Beverage(s)
(method)
Outcome
Maughan	
et	al.
1996
Rice	and	beef
meal
Sports	drink
(prescribed)
↑	Fluid	retention
(rehydration)
with	food
Pryor	
et	al.
	2015
Beef	jerky
Sports	drink
(prescribed)
↑	Fluid	retention
(rehydration)
with	food
Campagnolo	
et
al.
	2017
Selection	of
foods/	snacks
Water	Sports
drink	Milk-based
supplement
(voluntary)
Rehydration
achieved	with	all
beverages
McCartney	
et	al.
(under	review)
Selection	of
foods/	snacks
Water	Sports
drink	Milk-based
supplements
(voluntary)
Rehydration
achieved	with	all
beverages
IMPACT	OF	ALCOHOL	ON	HYDRATION,
RECOVERY	AND	PERFORMANCE

Alcoholic	beverages	(particularly	beer	and	champagne)	have	a	long	association
with	sport.	In	many	countries,	athletes	commonly	consume	alcoholic	beverages
as	part	of	their	post-match	routine.	Clearly,	large	doses	of	alcohol	have	a	number
of	effects	(for	example,	impairing	muscle	synthesis,	delaying	muscle	glycogen
restoration	and	influencing	sleep	quality)	that	make	it	an	undesirable	recovery
agent.	However,	considering	beer	may	be	consumed	in	large	volumes	after
exercise,	researchers	have	investigated	beer’s	potential	to	influence	rehydration.
Studies	on	the	diuretic	impact	of	beer	suggest	that	the	fluid	loss	associated
with	alcohol	is	less	pronounced	after	exercise-induced	fluid	losses.	Additionally,
by	reducing	the	alcohol	concentration	of	beer	(≤4	per	cent	alcohol	by	volume)
and	raising	the	sodium	content,	significantly	greater	fluid	retention	can	be
achieved	compared	to	drinking	a	traditional	full	strength	beer	(Desbrow	
et	al.
2013).	A	low-alcohol	beer	with	added	sodium	may	provide	a	compromise	to	the
dehydrated	athlete	following	exercise,	in	that	it	is	a	beverage	with	high	social
acceptance	that	avoids	the	poor	fluid	retention	observed	with	full-strength	beer.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	understand	the	role	of	water	in	the	human
body,	how	fluid	loss	can	lead	to	dehydration	and	the	impact	of	dehydration.	You
should	be	able	to	identify	different	techniques	for	measuring	hydration	status,	as
well	as	the	strengths	and	limitations	of	each	method.	You	should	be	able	to
describe	factors	that	influence	fluid	consumption	and	identify	appropriate
drinking	strategies	to	optimise	rehydration	for	athletes.
Key	messages
•	Cardiovascular	and	thermoregulatory	functions	of	water	are	critical	for
athletes.
•	During	exercise	the	body	cools	itself	by	sweating,	but	this	causes	loss	of	body
fluid.
•	Performance	impairment	typically	occurs	when	dehydration	exceeds	2%	BW
loss.
•	Timing	of	consumption	relative	to	exercise	has	a	significant	influence	on
beverage	recommendations.
•	It	is	important	to	recognise	that	all	beverages	make	a	contribution	to	total	fluid
intake.
•	Ingestion	of	food	is	likely	to	facilitate	rehydration	after	exercise.

•	Ingestion	of	food	is	likely	to	facilitate	rehydration	after	exercise.
•	Large	doses	of	alcohol	can	have	a	number	of	negative	effects	that	make	it	an
undesirable	recovery	agent.
•	Low-alcohol	beer	with	added	sodium	may	provide	a	beverage	with	high	social
acceptance	that	allows	rehydration.
REFERENCES
Armstrong,	L.,	Soto,	J.,	Hacker,	F.	et	al.,	1998,	‘Urinary	indices	during
dehydration,	exercise,	and	rehydration’,	
International	Journal	of	Sport	&
Nutrition,
	vol.	8,	no.	4,	pp.	345–55.
Armstrong,	L.E.,	2005,	‘Hydration	assessment	techniques’,	
Nutrition	Reviews,
vol.	63,	suppl.	6,	pp.	40–54.
Campagnolo,	N.,	Iudakhina,	E.,	Irwin,	C.	et	al.,	2017,	‘Fluid,	energy	and	nutrient
recovery	via	
ad	libitum
	intake	of	different	fluids	and	food’,	
Physiology	&
Behaviour,
	vol.	171,	pp.	228–35.
Cheuvront,	S.N.,	Carter,	R.,	Montain,	S.J.	et	al.,	2004,	‘Daily	body	mass
variability	and	stability	in	active	men	undergoing	exercise-heat	stress’,
International	Journal	of	Sport	Nutrition	&	Exercise	Metabolism,
	vol.	14,	no.
5,	pp.	532–40.
Desbrow,	B.,	Jansen,	S.,	Barrett,	A.,	et	al.,	2014,	‘Comparing	the	rehydration
potential	of	different	milk-based	drinks	to	a	carbohydrate-electrolyte
beverage’,	
Applied	Physiology,	Nutrition,	and	Metabolism,
	vol.	39,	no.	12,
pp.	1366–72.
Desbrow,	B.,	Murray,	D.	&	Leveritt,	M.,	2013,	‘Beer	as	a	sports	drink?
Manipulating	beer’s	ingredients	to	replace	lost	fluid’,	
International	Journal	of
Sport	Nutrition	&	Exercise	Metabolism
,	vol.	23,	no.	6,	pp.	593–600.
Garth,	A.K.	&	Burke,	L.M.,	2013,	‘What	do	athletes	drink	during	competitive
sporting	activities?’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	43,	no.	7,	pp.	539–64.
Jequier,	E.	&	Constant,	F.,	2010,	‘Water	as	an	essential	nutrient:	The
physiological	basis	of	hydration’,	
European	Journal	of	Clinical	Nutrition,
vol.	64,	no.	2,	pp.	115–23.
Maughan,	R.J.,	2003,	‘Impact	of	mild	dehydration	on	wellness	and	on	exercise
performance’,	
European	Journal	of	Clinical	Nutrition,
	vol.	57,	suppl.	2,	pp.
19–23.
Maughan,	R.,	Leiper,	J.	&	Shirreffs,	S.,	1996,	‘Restoration	of	fluid	balance	after
exercise-induced	dehydration:	Effects	of	food	and	fluid	intake’,	
European
Journal	of	Applied	Physiology	and	Occupational	Physiology,
	vol.	73,	no.	3-4,
pp.	317–25.

Maughan,	R.J.,	Watson,	P.,	Cordery,	P.A.	et	al.,	2016,	‘A	randomized	trial	to
assess	the	potential	of	different	beverages	to	affect	hydration	status:
Development	of	a	beverage	hydration	index’,	
American	Journal	of	Clinical
Nutrition,
	vol.	103,	no.	3,	pp.	717–23.
McCartney,	D.,	Irwin,	C.,	Cox,	G.R.	et	al.,	under	review,	‘Fluid,	energy	and
nutrient	recovery	via	
ad	libitum
	intake	of	different	commercial	beverages	and
food	in	female	athletes’,	
Applied	Physiology,	Nutrition	&	Metabolism.
Murray,	B.,	2007,	‘Hydration	and	physical	performance’,	
Journal	of	American
College	of	Nutrition,
	vol.	26,	suppl.	5,	pp.	542–48.
Oppliger,	R.A.	&	Bartok,	C.,	2002,	‘Hydration	testing	of	athletes’,	
Sports
Medicine,
	vol.	32,	no.	15,	pp.	959–71.
Pryor,	J.L.,	Johnson,	E.C.,	Del	Favero,	J.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Hydration	status	and
sodium	balance	of	endurance	runners	consuming	post-exercise	supplements
of	varying	nutrient	content’,	
International	Journal	of	Sport	Nutrition	&
Exercise	Metabolism,
	vol.	25,	no.	5,	pp.	471–9.
Sawka,	M.N.,	Burke,	L.M.,	Eichner,	E.R.	et	al.,	2007,	‘American	College	of
Sports	Medicine	Position	stand.	Exercise	and	fluid	replacement’,	
Medicine	&
Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	39,	no.	2,	pp.	377–90.
Thomas,	D.T.,	Erdman,	K.A.	&	Burke,	L.M.,	2016,	‘Position	of	Dietitians	of
Canada,	the	Academy	of	Nutrition	and	Dietetics,	and	the	American	College
of	Sports	Medicine:	Nutrition	and	athletic	performance’,	Dietitians	of
Canada,	pp.	23–25,	<
https://www.dietitians.ca/Downloads/Public/noap-
position-paper.aspx
>,	accessed	15	November	2018.

Sports	supplements
Michael	Leveritt
The	preceding	chapters	have	provided	an	overview	of	how	specific	dietary
patterns,	foods	and	nutrients	can	enhance	health	and	wellbeing	as	well	as
exercise	performance	and	adaptations	to	training.	We	now	understand	that	well-
selected	nutrition	strategies	can	have	a	significant	positive	impact	on	an	athlete’s
performance	and	overall	wellbeing.	While	most	of	the	nutritional	benefits	for	an
athlete	are	the	result	of	thoughtfully	selected	foods	and	overall	dietary	patterns,
some	additional	benefit	can	be	gained	from	specific	sports	foods	and
supplements.	This	chapter	will	look	more	closely	at	the	sports	foods	and
supplements	used	by	athletes	to	enhance	performance,	promote	recovery	and
facilitate	optimal	training	adaptation.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	define	sports	foods	and	sports	supplements
•	understand	placebo	and	belief	effects	associated	with	sports	supplements

•	understand	placebo	and	belief	effects	associated	with	sports	supplements
•	briefly	describe	the	mechanism	of	action	of	specific	supplements	that	have
been	shown	to	enhance	exercise	performance
•	explain	the	recommended	supplement	intake	protocols	for	specific	supplements
that	have	been	shown	to	enhance	exercise	performance
•	discuss	emerging	evidence	associated	with	new	and	potentially	beneficial
sports	supplements.
SPORTS	FOODS
Research	in	sports	nutrition	over	several	decades	has	identified	how	different
nutrients	can	enhance	exercise	performance,	improve	recovery	and	modulate
training	adaptation.	This	knowledge	has	subsequently	led	to	the	development	of
specific	sports	foods.	Sports	foods	are	specifically	formulated	with	the	aim	of
helping	individuals	achieve	specific	nutritional	or	sporting	performance	goals
and	are	designed	to	supplement	the	diet	of	athletes	rather	than	to	act	as	the	main
source	of	nutrition.	These	products	are	regulated	under	Food	Standards	Australia
New	Zealand’s	Standard	as	‘Formulated	supplementary	sports	foods’.	It	is
important	to	note	that	this	Standard	allows	the	addition	of	substances	that	are	not
permitted	or	are	restricted	in	other	foods,	as	well	as	higher	levels	of	some
vitamins	and	minerals,	meaning	that	most	of	these	foods	may	not	be	suitable	for
children	or	pregnant	women.	Additionally,	in	New	Zealand	sports-related
products	may	also	be	manufactured	under	the	New	Zealand	Food	(Supplemented
Food)	Standard	2010	and	compliant	products	can	be	imported	into	Australia
under	the	Trans-Tasman	Mutual	Recognition	Arrangement	(Food	Standards
Australia	New	Zealand	2018).
Foods	which	fall	under	this	category	include	sports	bars,	carbohydrate	gels
and	protein	drinks.	Over	the	last	decade	there	has	been	a	large	increase	in	the
type	and	variety	of	products	available,	and	a	huge	surge	in	marketing,	increasing
the	popularity	and	use	of	sports	foods.	The	vast	majority	of	these	specialised
sports	foods	are	simply	convenient	packages	of	nutrients	that	might	be	easily
accessible	to	an	athlete	when	required.	In	fact,	athletes	can	often	receive	the
same	benefits	from	consuming	these	nutrients	in	regular	foods.	In	many
instances,	regular	foods	may	actually	provide	a	cheaper,	albeit	less	convenient,
alternative.	Nevertheless,	sports	foods	may	have	a	role	to	play	in	an	athlete’s
diet.	For	example,	we	know	that	consuming	protein	after	resistance	training
enhances	subsequent	muscle	protein	synthesis.	Many	foods	that	are	good	sources
of	high-quality	protein,	such	as	meat,	chicken,	eggs	and	dairy	foods,	require
refrigeration	and	can	be	difficult	to	access	after	a	training	session.	A	protein
powder	that	can	be	mixed	with	water	is	an	example	of	a	sports	food	that	could	be

powder	that	can	be	mixed	with	water	is	an	example	of	a	sports	food	that	could	be
more	convenient	for	an	athlete	to	take	to	training	and	then	consume	immediately
after	exercise	is	completed.	However,	with	thoughtful	planning	it	is	possible	for
an	athlete	to	obtain	all	the	nutrients	they	require	through	regular	foods.	For
example,	high-quality	protein	in	eggs	or	chicken	leftover	from	the	previous
evening’s	dinner	could	be	brought	on	a	sandwich	in	a	cooler	bag	with	an	ice
block	to	keep	cool	until	after	training.
SPORTS	SUPPLEMENTS
Sports	supplements	are	different	from	sports	foods	because	they	typically
contain	unusual	amounts	of	nutrients	or	other	components	of	foods	that	would
not	normally	be	obtained	through	food	alone.	There	are	many	sports
supplements	that	are	marketed	as	being	able	to	enhance	exercise	performance,
but	the	scientific	evidence	to	support	the	proposed	benefits	is	not	convincing	for
several	supplements.	Nevertheless,	the	way	in	which	many	sports	supplements
are	marketed	makes	them	very	attractive	to	athletes	and	exercising	individuals.
In	fact,	many	athletes	hold	strong	beliefs	about	the	positive	effects	of	certain
supplements.	This	may	be	due	to	a	genuine	benefit,	or	it	may	be	due	to	a	placebo
or	belief	effect.	The	
placebo	effect
	occurs	when	an	individual	experiences	or
perceives	a	benefit	from	a	supplement	due	to	the	belief	that	it	will	be	beneficial
rather	than	as	a	result	of	any	direct	physiological	effect.	Many	scientists	discount
placebo	effects	as	not	being	real,	and	these	effects	are	often	tightly	controlled	for
in	experiments	evaluating	the	effectiveness	of	a	sports	supplement.	However,
there	have	also	been	well-controlled	studies	investigating	the	placebo	effect
using	supplements	such	as	caffeine	that	are	known	to	enhance	performance.
These	studies	have	shown	that	exercise	performance	is	enhanced	when
participants	are	told	they	are	receiving	the	supplement	despite	actually	being
given	an	inactive	substance	(Beedie	&	Foad	2009).	Interestingly,	although	the
placebo	effect	enhances	performance,	the	magnitude	of	this	effect	is	usually
slightly	less	than	the	amount	of	performance	improvement	observed	from	the
actual	supplement.	These	studies	have	clearly	shown	that	some	placebo	effects
are	likely	to	occur	with	sports	supplements.	Interestingly,	this	may	have	some
implications	for	ethical	practice	in	sports	nutrition	(Halson	&	Martin	2013).	It
might	not	be	considered	ethical	to	deliberately	deceive	an	athlete	by	advising
them	to	consume	a	supplement	that	does	not	cause	any	performance-enhancing
physiological	effects.	However,	most	athletes	want	to	perform	at	their	best
regardless	of	how	that	is	achieved	and	are	more	than	willing	to	consume	sports

supplements,	even	if	the	benefits	are	only	due	to	a	placebo	effect.	This	area	is
complex,	but	the	placebo	effect	should	be	taken	into	consideration	when
providing	advice	about	sports	supplements	and	also	when	monitoring	the	effects
of	sports	supplements.
Placebo	effect
When	an	individual	experiences	or	perceives	a	benefit	from	a	supplement	due	to	the	belief	that	it	will	be
beneficial	rather	than	any	direct	physiological	effect.
Despite	many	sports	supplements	lacking	scientific	evidence	to	support	their
marketing	claims,	a	number	of	sports	supplements	have	been	shown	to	be
effective	at	enhancing	performance	under	certain	conditions.	The	Australian
Institute	of	Sport	has	developed	a	classification	system	that	ranks	sports
supplements	into	groups	based	on	scientific	evidence	and	other	practical
considerations	that	determine	whether	a	product	is	safe,	legal	and	effective	at
improving	sports	performance.	There	are	four	categories	of	sports	supplements
in	this	system:
1.	
Group	A	Supplements
—there	is	sufficient	scientific	evidence	to	recommend
these	supplements	in	specific	situations	using	evidence-based	protocols.
2.	
Group	B	Supplements
—research	is	promising	regarding	the	benefits	of	these
supplements,	but	it	is	inconclusive	to	date	and	these	supplements	should	only
be	used	if	they	are	part	of	a	research	project	or	when	it	is	possible	to	monitor
how	athletes	respond.
3.	
Group	C	Supplements
—there	is	very	little	scientific	evidence	that	these
supplements	are	beneficial	and	supplements	in	this	category	are	generally	not
recommended.
4.	
Group	D	Supplements
—these	supplements	are	either	banned	or	are	at	high
risk	of	contamination	with	substances	that	could	lead	to	a	positive	drug	test
and	are	definitely	not	recommended	for	athletes.
This	framework	provides	a	useful	guide	for	athletes,	coaches	and	sports
nutrition	practitioners	when	deciding	on	which	supplements	to	include	in	their
overall	sports	nutrition	program.	The	list	of	supplements	in	each	category
changes	over	time	as	new	evidence	emerges	about	each	of	the	different
supplements.	We	will	focus	on	the	Group	A	supplements	in	this	chapter.	A	range
of	sports	foods	and	medical	supplements	are	currently	included	in	Group	A,	in
addition	to	the	following	sports	supplements:

addition	to	the	following	sports	supplements:
•	caffeine
•	creatine
•	nitrates
•	bicarbonate
•	beta-alanine.
Caffeine
	is	one	of	the	most	widely	used	pharmacologically	active	substances
in	the	world	and	has	been	shown	to	improve	performance	in	a	variety	of	exercise
tasks.	Caffeine	is	present	in	many	commonly	consumed	foods	and	in	beverages
such	as	coffee,	tea,	chocolate-and	cola-flavoured	beverages.	The	physiological
effects	of	caffeine	occur	due	to	its	similarity	to	the	
adenosine
	molecule.	Among
its	many	actions,	adenosine	causes	a	decrease	in	alertness	and	arousal	when	it
binds	to	receptors	on	the	surface	of	cells	in	the	brain.	Caffeine	also	binds	to	these
receptors	and	blocks	the	effects	of	adenosine.
Adenosine
A	chemical	that	naturally	occurs	in	humans	and	which	causes	a	decrease	in	alertness	and	arousal	when	it
binds	to	receptors	on	the	surface	of	cells	in	the	brain.
Therefore,	caffeine	can	increase	alertness	and	arousal	and	subsequently
reduces	the	perception	of	effort	during	exercise.	The	reduced	perception	of	effort
during	exercise	can	enhance	performance	by	delaying	fatigue	and	allowing	an
athlete	to	exercise	at	a	higher	intensity	for	longer	periods	of	time.
Interestingly,	the	dose	of	caffeine	required	to	achieve	optimal	improvements
in	exercise	performance	is	relatively	small.	Doses	of	approximately	3	mg/kg
body	mass	appear	to	be	most	effective,	with	no	additional	benefit	occurring	with
higher	doses	(Desbrow	
et	al.
	2012).	This	dose	is	equivalent	to	approximately
600	millilitres	of	a	standard	energy	drink	or	two	cups	of	coffee	and	is	actually
quite	similar	to	the	usual	daily	consumption	of	caffeine	for	many	adults.
Consumption	of	caffeine	at	these	relatively	low	doses	is	unlikely	to	result	in	any
negative	side-effects	in	most	people,	which	is	perhaps	one	reason	why	caffeine
use	in	sport	has	not	been	restricted	since	2004.	Caffeine	has	been	shown	to
improve	performance	when	consumed	in	tablet	form,	coffee	or	in	energy	drinks
(Quinlivan	
et	al.
	2015).	However,	the	amount	of	caffeine	in	coffee	can	vary
significantly.	In	fact,	some	Australian	studies	have	shown	that	there	is	a	tenfold
difference	in	the	caffeine	content	of	coffee	purchased	at	different	retail	outlets
(Desbrow	
et	al.
	2007).	Using	energy	drinks	as	a	source	of	caffeine	can	also	have

limitations	for	athletes.	Some	athletes	experience	uncomfortable	gastrointestinal
symptoms	when	energy	drinks	are	consumed	before	exercise.	Therefore,	it	is
recommended	that	caffeine	be	consumed	in	tablet	form	when	used	as	a	sports
supplement	in	order	to	be	certain	of	the	exact	dose	ingested	and	to	reduce	any
unwanted	gastrointestinal	side-effects.
Caffeine	is	most	effective	when	consumed	approximately	one	hour	before
exercise,	although	many	studies	have	shown	caffeine	enhances	performance
when	it	is	given	to	participants	at	a	variety	of	different	times	before	and/or
during	the	exercise	task.	It	has	even	been	shown	that	very	small	amounts	of
caffeine	consumed	in	cola	beverages	can	enhance	performance	in	the	concluding
stages	of	an	endurance	exercise	task.	The	benefit	to	performance	in	this	instance
actually	occurred	despite	very	little	change	in	the	caffeine	concentration	in	the
blood.	In	fact,	the	amount	of	caffeine	appearing	in	the	blood	does	not	seem	to	be
related	to	the	performance	benefit.	Nevertheless,	the	studies	that	have	directly
compared	different	times	of	ingestion	suggest	that	approximately	one	hour
before	exercise	is	optimal,	but	there	may	well	be	variations	to	this	for	different
individuals.
Contrary	to	popular	belief,	caffeine	consumption	does	not	cause	dehydration
during	exercise.	Even	though	caffeine	acts	as	a	mild	diuretic	by	causing	small
increases	in	urine	volume,	these	effects	are	negated	by	exercise,	possibly	due	to
the	changes	in	hormones	and	cardiovascular	function	during	exercise	(Zhang	
et
al.
	2015).	In	fact,	caffeine	has	actually	been	shown	to	cause	similar	performance
benefits	when	consumed	before	exercise	performed	in	hot	conditions	compared
with	more	neutral	environmental	conditions.
Regular	consumption	of	caffeine	can	cause	the	body’s	cells	to	adapt	and
generate	more	adenosine	receptors.	This	has	the	potential	to	make	regular
caffeine	consumers	
less	able	to	experience	the	performance	enhancements
associated	with	caffeine	supplementation.	However,	studies	have	shown	that
individuals	who	normally	consume	large	amounts	of	caffeine	in	their	diet	still
receive	similar	benefits	when	consuming	caffeine	before	exercise	compared	with
athletes	who	do	not	consume	much	caffeine	on	a	regular	basis.	It	also	does	not
appear	that	there	is	any	benefit	gained	from	abstaining	from	caffeine	for	a	few
days	before	using	a	caffeine	supplement.	It	is	important	to	note	that,	while	we
are	confident	that	caffeine	supplementation	is	effective	at	improving	exercise
performance,	there	are	a	limited	number	of	studies	that	have	thoroughly
investigated	the	factors	that	might	moderate	the	ergogenic	effects	of	caffeine	and
more	research	in	this	area	is	certainly	warranted.
Creatine	has	been	used	by	athletes	as	an	
ergogenic	aid
	for	several	decades.
Supplementation	with	creatine	monohydrate	increases	the	creatine	pool	in

muscles	which	allows	for	more	rapid	ATP	regeneration	during	repeated	bouts	of
high-intensity	exercise	(see	
Chapter	2
).	This	mechanism	may	enable	a	higher
training	intensity	and	improved	adaptation	to	training,	particularly	resistance
training	which	involves	repeated,	high-force	muscle	contractions.	Creatine
supplementation	also	appears	to	positively	influence	anabolic	processes	in
muscles,	which	results	in	an	increase	in	lean	muscle	mass	after	supplementation.
Many	studies	have	shown	that	creatine	supplementation	during	a	period	of
resistance	training	enhances	gains	in	muscle	strength	and	lean	body	mass.
Typical	creatine	supplementation	protocols	involve	a	short	loading	phase,	lasting
5–7	days,	during	which	20	g/day	of	creatine	monohydrate	is	consumed	in	four
daily	intakes	of	5	grams	each,	evenly	spaced	throughout	the	day.	This	is	then
followed	by	a	maintenance	phase	in	which	3–5	g/day	is	consumed.	The
maintenance	phase	typically	lasts	for	the	duration	of	the	training	cycle	in	which
improvements	in	maximal	muscle	strength	and	lean	body	mass	are	the	primary
goals.
Ergogenic	aid
Any	substance	or	aid	that	improves	physical	performance.
Dietary	nitrate	is	becoming	increasingly	popular	as	a	sports	supplement	due	to
its	capacity	to	enhance	endurance	exercise	performance	(McMahon	
et	al.
	2017).
Many	green	leafy	vegetables	and	beetroot	are	examples	of	foods	with	a	high
nitrate	content.	The	nitrate	content	of	foods	can	vary	significantly	due	to
growing	conditions	and	loss	of	nitrate	during	cooking	and	preparation,	which
makes	it	difficult	to	predict	how	much	dietary	nitrate	is	being	consumed	through
different	foods.	There	are	now	many	sports	foods	and	beverages	available	that
are	made	with	concentrated	beetroot	juice	and	contain	a	known	amount	of
nitrate.	Once	ingested,	dietary	nitrate	can	be	converted	to	nitrite	by	bacteria	in
the	mouth.	Circulating	nitrite	is	then	converted	into	nitric	oxide	in	blood	and
other	tissues.	Enhancing	nitric	oxide	availability	may	improve	muscle	function
and	consequently	exercise	performance.	Nitrate	supplementation	appears	to
specifically	enhance	the	efficiency	of	oxygen	use	during	exercise,	which	
allows
individuals	to	perform	greater	work	for	the	same	energy	cost	(Jones	2014).	This
results	in	an	improved	capacity	to	exercise	at	a	fixed	intensity	for	a	longer
duration	before	exhaustion	occurs.	Daily	intake	of	400–500	milligrams	of	nitrate
for	approximately	one	week	appears	to	be	most	effective	at	enhancing
performance;	however,	benefits	have	also	been	shown	after	a	single	dose

consumed	2–3	hours	before	exercise.	Interestingly,	the	benefits	of	dietary	nitrate
supplementation	are	less	evident	in	highly	trained	athletes,	particularly	when
exercise	performance	is	measured	via	a	time-trial	test	rather	than	time	to
exhaustion	tests.	This	suggests	that	recreational	exercisers	are	likely	to
experience	improved	exercise	performance	after	nitrate	supplementation.
However,	elite	athletes	may	wish	to	monitor	their	individual	response	to	nitrate
supplementation	to	determine	if	this	is	likely	to	be	an	effective	nutrition	strategy
that	contributes	to	their	performance	goals.
Performance	in	short-duration,	high-intensity	exercise	can	be	improved	after
the	ingestion	of	sodium	bicarbonate	(Peart	
et	al.
	2012).	Increasing	bicarbonate	in
the	blood	enhances	the	capacity	to	buffer	acid	produced	by	the	muscle	during
exercise	(see	
Chapter	2
).	This	has	the	potential	to	delay	fatigue	during	high-
intensity	exercise.	Although	there	is	a	clear	mechanistic	rationale	for	bicarbonate
to	enhance	performance,	not	all	studies	show	a	performance	benefit.	This	may	be
due	to	side-effects	associated	with	gastrointestinal	discomfort	offsetting	the
benefit	of	an	improved	buffer	capacity.	As	with	nitrate	supplementation,	the
benefits	of	bicarbonate	ingestion	appear	to	be	less	evident	in	highly	trained
individuals,	possibly	due	to	the	already	high	buffer	capacity	developed	through
training	in	this	population.	Doses	of	200–400	mg/kg	body	mass	consumed	60–90
minutes	before	exercise	appear	to	be	optimal,	but	it	is	recommended	that	athletes
trial	this	on	several	occasions	during	training	to	ensure	that	no	adverse
gastrointestinal	side-effects	are	likely	to	occur	in	competition.
Beta-alanine	is	a	component	of	the	dipeptide	carnosine,	which	plays	a	role	in
buffering	acid	produced	in	the	muscle	during	high-intensity	exercise	(see
Chapter	1
).	This	has	the	potential	to	delay	fatigue	and	enhance	performance,
particularly	in	events	lasting	approximately	1–4	minutes.	Beta-alanine
supplementation	over	several	weeks	has	been	shown	to	result	in	increased
muscle	carnosine	and	improved	performance	in	short-duration	(1–4	minutes),
high-intensity	exercise.	A	daily	dose	of	6.4	grams	is	used	in	most	studies	and	it
appears	that	at	least	four	weeks	of	beta-alanine	supplementation	is	required	to
elevate	muscle	carnosine	concentration.	However,	further	increases	in	muscle
carnosine	concentration	are	observed	after	ten	weeks	of	supplementation.	The
daily	dose	is	usually	consumed	on	3–4	occasions	spread	throughout	the	day	in
order	to	reduce	the	acute	side-effects	associated	with	consumption	of	large	doses
of	beta-alanine.	Side-effects	can	include	tingling,	flushing	and	a	prickly
sensation	on	the	skin	which	peaks	around	30–60	minutes	after	the	ingestion	of
beta-alanine.	The	
protocol
	for	beta-alanine	supplementation	is	much	more
difficult	for	athletes	to	adhere	to	than	protocols	for	other	supplements,	as	it
involves	several	daily	doses	taken	for	several	weeks.	Therefore,	beta-alanine

supplementation	is	only	recommended	for	highly	motivated	athletes	who	are
able	to	commit	to	a	relatively	long	supplementation	regime.
Protocol
The	official	procedure	or	set	of	rules	or	methods	that	need	to	be	followed.
Supplements	such	as	caffeine,	creatine,	nitrate,	sodium	bicarbonate	and	beta-
alanine	have	all	been	shown	to	enhance	exercise	performance	in	many	different
studies.	Most	studies	compare	the	effects	of	a	single	supplement	against	a
placebo	under	relatively	well-controlled	conditions.	However,	many	athletes
looking	for	a	competitive	edge	will	consume	multiple	supplements	at	the	same
time	in	order	to	derive	as	much	benefit	as	possible.	Unfortunately,	the	beneficial
effects	of	taking	multiple	different	supplements	may	not	be	additive.	Findings	of
studies	investigating	combinations	of	supplements	are	somewhat	inconsistent,
with	some	showing	additive	effects	and	others	showing	that	performance	gains
from	multiple	supplements	are	no	greater	than	those	from	a	single	supplement.
Research	into	the	effects	of	consuming	multiple	supplements	is	relatively	scant
at	present	due	to	the	difficulty	of	conducting	studies	involving	multiple
interventions.	While	further	research	is	required,	it	is	also	likely	that	different
athletes	will	have	somewhat	different	responses	to	each	supplement.	It	is
therefore	important	for	athletes	to	monitor	and	evaluate	their	own	individual
responses	to	supplements	to	most	effectively	use	sports	supplements	to	enhance
their	performance.
Research	into	sports	supplements	continues	to	evolve	and	there	are	many	new
supplements	that	have	shown	promising	results,	but	there	is	not	enough	scientific
evidence	to	date	to	provide	clear	recommendations	on	the	benefit	of	these
supplements.	Examples	of	these	supplements	include	pickle	juice	(any	sort
containing	salt	and	vinegar)	to	reduce	muscle	cramps;	tart	cherry	juice	to
enhance	recovery;	citrulline,	carnitine	and	quercetin	for	enhanced	endurance
performance;	curcumin	for	reducing	inflammation	and	enhancing	recovery;
glutamine	for	enhancing	immune	function;	and	gelatin	for	enhancing	tissue
repair	and	injury	prevention.	All	of	these	supplements	have	the	potential	to
provide	significant	benefit,	but	the	evidence	is	insufficient	at	the	moment	to	be
confident	that	most	athletes	will	respond	positively	when	these	supplements	are
consumed.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
Thoughtfully	selected	foods	and	overall	dietary	patterns	can	enhance	an	athlete’s

performance.	Small	additional	benefits	are	possible	through	the	intake	of	sports
foods	and	sports	supplements.	The	mechanism	of	action	of	sports	supplements	is
complex	and	the	benefits	of	most	supplements	are	usually	specific	to	a	certain
type	of	exercise	
or	sport	activity.	Supplements	such	as	caffeine,	creatine,
bicarbonate,	nitrate	and	beta-alanine	have	the	strongest	scientific	evidence
supporting	their	benefits	in	sport.
Key	messages
•	Most	of	the	benefits	of	nutrition	for	an	athlete	are	the	result	of	thoughtfully
selected	foods	and	overall	dietary	patterns.
•	Sports	foods	are	specially	formulated	products	in	which	nutrients	are	packaged
in	convenient	forms	for	athletes	and	exercising	individuals	to	help	them
achieve	specific	nutritional	or	performance	goals.
•	Sports	supplements	are	different	from	sports	foods	because	they	typically
contain	unusual	amounts	of	nutrients	or	other	components	of	foods	that	would
not	normally	be	obtained	through	food	alone.
•	Sports	supplements	that	have	good	evidence	for	enhancing	performance
include	caffeine,	creatine,	bicarbonate,	nitrate	and	beta-alanine.
•	There	is	also	emerging	evidence	for	the	benefits	of	pickle	juice,	tart	cherry
juice,	citrulline,	carnitine,	quercetin,	curcumin,	glutamine	and	gelatin.
•	Given	individual	variation	in	how	athletes	respond	to	different	supplements,	it
is	important	that	athletes	monitor	and	evaluate	their	own	individual	responses
to	supplements	in	order	to	receive	the	greatest	benefit.
REFERENCES
Beedie,	C.J.	&	Foad,	A.J.,	2009,	‘The	placebo	effect	in	sports	performance:	A
brief	review’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	39,	no.	4,	pp.	313–29.
Desbrow,	B.,	Biddulph,	C.,	Devlin,	B.	et	al.,	2012,	‘The	effects	of	different
doses	of	caffeine	on	endurance	cycling	time	trial	performance’,	
Journal	of
Sports	Science,
	vol.	30,	no.	2,	pp.	115–20.
Desbrow,	B.,	Hughes,	R.,	Leveritt,	M.	et	al.,	2007,	‘An	examination	of	consumer
exposure	to	caffeine	from	retail	coffee	outlets’,	
Food	&	Chemical	Toxicology,
vol.	45,	no.	9,	pp.	1588–92.
Halson,	S.L.	&	Martin,	D.T.,	2013,	‘Lying	to	win—Placebos	and	sport	science’,
International	Journal	of	Sports	Physiology	&	Performance,
	vol.	8,	no.	6,	pp.

597–9.
Jones,	A.M.,	2014,	‘Influence	of	dietary	nitrate	on	the	physiological
determinants	of	exercise	performance:	a	critical	review’,	
Applied	Physiology
&	Nutritional	Metabolism,
	vol.	39,	no.	9,	pp.	1019–28.
McMahon,	N.F.,	Leveritt,	M.D.	&	Pavey,	T.G.,	2017,	‘The	effect	of	dietary
nitrate	supplementation	on	endurance	exercise	performance	in	healthy	adults:
A	systematic	review	and	meta-analysis’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	47,	no.	4,	pp.
735–56.
Peart,	D.J.,	Siegler,	J.C.	&	Vince,	R.V.,	2012,	‘Practical	recommendations	for
coaches	and	athletes:	A	meta-analysis	of	sodium	bicarbonate	use	for	athletic
performance’,	
Journal	of	Strength	&	Conditioning	Research,
	vol.	26,	no.	7,
pp.	1975–83.
Quinlivan,	A.,	Irwin,	C.,	Grant,	G.D.	et	al.,	2015,	‘The	effects	of	Red	Bull
energy	drink	compared	with	caffeine	on	cycling	time-trial	performance’,
Internatinal	Journal	of	Sports	Physiology	&	Performance,
	vol.	10,	no.	7,	pp.
897–901.
Zhang,	Y.,	Coca,	A.,	Casa,	D.J.,	et	al.,	2015,	‘Caffeine	and	diuresis	during	rest
and	exercise:	A	meta-analysis’,	
Journal	of	Science	and	Medicine	in	Sport,
vol.	18,	no.	5,	pp.	569–74.

Changing	body	composition	and
anthropometry
Patria	Hume
Body	composition	changes	with	growth	and	maturation,	and	due	to	influences
such	as	diet	and	exercise.	Anthropometry	is	the	comparative	study	of	sizes	and
proportions	of	the	human	body.	This	chapter	provides	an	overview	of	body
composition,	anthropometric	methods	used	to	assess	body	composition,	and	how
body	composition	can	be	modified	through	diet	and	exercise.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	provide	a	definition	of	body	composition
•	outline	techniques	used	to	assess	body	composition
•	describe	how	body	composition	can	be	modified.

WHAT	IS	BODY	COMPOSITION?
Body	composition	is	a	term	that	is	commonly	used	when	referring	to	the	amount
of	fat	relative	to	muscle	you	have	in	your	body.	However,	this	technically	is
total	body	fat
	and	
fat-free	mass
	(FFM),	which	includes	muscle,	water	and
bone.	Body	composition	is,	therefore,	the	relative	proportions	of	fat,	protein,
water	and	mineral	components	in	the	body.	Almost	99	per	cent	of	the	human
body	mass	is	composed	of	six	elements:	oxygen,	carbon,	nitrogen,	hydrogen
(and	smaller	quantities	of	their	stable	
isotopes
),	calcium	and	phosphorus.
Isotope
Atoms	that	have	the	same	number	of	protons	and	electrons	but	a	different	number	of	neutrons.
Body	density
The	compactness	of	a	body,	defined	as	the	mass	divide	by	its	volume.
Body	composition	varies	among	individuals	due	to	differences	in	
body
density
	and	degree	of	obesity.	Bone	is	more	dense	than	muscle,	which	is	more
dense	than	fat.	If	there	is	relative	loss	of	bone	density	(osteoporosis)	or	decrease
in	muscle	mass	(with	reduced	training),	fat	mass	may	be	overestimated	when
using	densitometry	techniques	to	calculate	the	ratio	of	fat	mass	to	fat-free	mass.
Densitometry	techniques	include	underwater	(hydrostatic)	weighing	and	air
displacement	plethysmography	(Bod	Pod
®
).
TECHNIQUES	USED	TO	ASSESS	BODY
COMPOSITION
Extracellular	water
Water	that	is	outside	the	cells,	including	the	water	between	the	cells	and	the	plasma.

Visceral	adipose	tissue
The	adipose	tissue	within	the	abdominal	cavity,	which	is	wrapped	around	the	organs.
Subcutaneous	adipose	tissue
Adipose	tissue	directly	under	the	skin.
Intermuscular	adipose	tissue
Adipose	tissue	located	within	the	skeletal	muscle.
Ectopic	fat	depots
Excess	adipose	tissue	in	locations	not	usually	associated	with	adipose	tissue	storage,	such	as	in	the	liver
or	around	the	heart.
Anthropometry
	is	the	comparative	study	of	sizes	and	proportions	of	the	human
body.	We	most	commonly	use	surface	anthropometry	techniques	to	assess	body
composition.
However,	there	are	a	variety	of	body	composition	(physique	assessment)
techniques	that	can	be	selected.	Assessment	of	body	composition	may	be
conducted	using	
non-imaging
	(surface	anthropometry,	air	displacement
plesthmyography,	three-dimensional	body	scanning,	doubly-labelled	water,
bioelectrical	impedance,	new	innovations),	and	
imaging
	techniques	(dual	energy
X-ray	absorptiometry,	ultrasound,	computed	tomography	and	magnetic
resonance	imaging).	See	the	recently	published	guidelines	for	more	information
on	how	to	use	selected	physique	assessment	methods	and	report	data	to	athletes
and	coaches	(Hume	
et	al.
	2017).
Combinations	of	techniques	allow	measurement	of	fat,	fat-free	mass,	bone
mineral	content,	total	body	water,	
extracellular
	water,	total	adipose	tissue	and
its	subdepots	(
visceral
,	
subcutaneous
	and	
intermuscular
),	skeletal	muscle,
select	organs,	and	
ectopic	fat	depots
	(Lee	&	Gallagher	2008).	Clinicians	and
scientists	can	quantify	a	number	of	body	components	and	can	track	changes	in
physique	with	the	aim	of	determining	efficacy	of	training,	nutrition	and	clinical
interventions.
Selection	of	techniques	to	assess	body	composition	is	dependent	upon	factors
including	the	validity,	reliability,	cost,	safety,	time	for	data	collection	and

including	the	validity,	reliability,	cost,	safety,	time	for	data	collection	and
analysis,	skill	required	for	the	practitioner	and	accessibility	of	the	technology.	It
is	important	to	consider:
•	why	you	measure	body	composition	using	the	techniques	and	technologies
•	precision	and	accuracy,	validity,	practicality,	and	sensitivity	to	monitor
changes	in	body	composition	using	the	technique
•	advantages	and	disadvantages	of	the	technique
•	the	equipment/hardware,	calibration,	software,	skills	required,	training	and
accreditation	for	techniques
•	client	presentation	and	preparation	protocols	for	the	techniques.
Athlete	presentation	for	measurement	is	important,	as	hydration	levels	will
affect	the	results.	Factors	such	as	time	of	day,	prior	food	or	fluid	intake,	exercise,
body	temperature,	hydration	status	and	gastrointestinal	tract	contents	should	be
standardised	wherever	possible	prior	to	any	physique	assessment.	Given	the
diurnal
	variation	in	body	mass,	fasted	early	morning	assessments	following
bladder	and	possibly	bowel	evacuation	are	the	most	reliable	where	practical.
Diurnal
The	24-hour	period	or	daily	cycle,	such	as	being	active	during	the	day	and	resting	at	night.
Surface	anthropometry	assessment
The	International	Society	for	the	Advancement	of	Kinanthropometry	(ISAK)
provides	international	standards	for	surface	anthropometry	assessment,	using
basic	measures	of	skinfolds,	girths,	lengths	and	breadths.	A	restricted	profile
includes	two	basic	measures	(body	mass,	height),	eight	skinfolds	(triceps,	biceps,
subscapular,	iliac	crest,	supraspinale,	abdominal,	front	thigh,	calf),	five	girths
(upper	arm	relaxed,	upper	arm	tensed,	waist,	hips,	calf)	and	two	breadths	(elbow,
knee).	A	full	profile	includes	all	the	restricted	profile	measures	plus	additional
measures,	resulting	in	a	total	of	four	basic	measures,	eight	skinfolds,	13	girths,
eight	lengths	and	nine	breadths.
The	advantages	of	ISAK	surface	anthropometry	methods	are	that	assessments
take	approximately	ten	minutes	for	a	restricted	profile	and	up	to	30	minutes	for	a
full	profile,	and	the	equipment	is	readily	available	and	easily	calibrated.	The
methods	are	valid	and	reliable	if	ISAK	training	is	undertaken	to	ensure	correct

use	of	anatomical	bony	landmarks	(Hume	&	Marfell-Jones	2008)	and	correct	use
of	calipers.	The	disadvantage	of	the	ISAK	surface	anthropometry	technique	is
that	skinfold	calipers	
compress	the	adipose	(fat)	tissue,	resulting	in	variation	in
measurements.	To	help	reduce	the	effects	of	skinfold	compressibility,	a	complete
set	of	skinfold	measurements	is	obtained	before	repeating	the	measurements.
Air	displacement	plethysmography	(Bod	Pod®)
Air	displacement	plethysmography	is	used	to	measure	body	volume	and
calculate	estimates	of	body	density.	The	Bod	Pod
®
	(COSMED	USA	Inc.,
Concord,	CA)	device	consists	of	a	measurement	pod	of	two	isolated	chambers	to
measure	body	volume,	a	calibratable	set	of	scales	and	a	computer	attached	to
each	measurement	device.	The	Bod	Pod
®
	is	easy	to	use	and	non-invasive.
Completion	of	the	test	including	accurate	body	mass,	multiple	measures	of	body
volume,	and	either	measurement	or	estimation	of	lung	gas	volume,	takes
approximately	ten	minutes	from	stepping	on	the	scales	to	stepping	out	of	the
Bod	Pod
®
.
During	measurement	the	client	sits	quietly	in	the	measurement	chamber,
breathing	normally	and	minimising	movement.	The	chamber	has	a	magnetically
locking	door	with	a	clear	window.	Within	the	measurement	pod,	the	technology
allows	estimation	of	lung	volume.	Two	measurements	of	body	volume	are
undertaken,	with	a	third	required	if	the	first	two	measures	are	not	within	150
millilitres.	Once	body	volume	has	been	calculated	the	software	provides	body-
fat	percentage	and	absolute	values	of	fat	mass	and	fat-free	mass.	The	Bod	Pod
®
will	underestimate	fat	mass	compared	to	other	physique	assessment	techniques	if
there	are	poor	standardisation	practices	in	athlete	presentation.
Bioelectrical	impedance	analysis	(BIA)
Bioelectrical	impedance	analysis	(BIA)	allows	measurement	of	total	body	water,
which	is	used	to	estimate	fat-free	body	mass	and,	by	difference	with	body	mass,
body	fat.	BIA	assessment	devices	are	readily	available	and	assessment	is	quick
compared	to	other	methods.	A	client	appointment	of	15	minutes	is	needed	for
body	mass	and	standing	stature	measurement,	electrode	placement	and	then	one
minute	of	data	collection.	The	technique	is	client-friendly	as	it	is	non-invasive
and	there	is	low	health	risk.	The	procedure	is	simple	and	there	is	good	portability
of	the	equipment.	BIA	is	relatively	low	cost	compared	to	other	methods	of	body
composition	analysis.	However,	precision	and	validity	is	low.

composition	analysis.	However,	precision	and	validity	is	low.
Sensitivity	to	monitor	change	of	physique	is	low	given	that	variation	in	client
presentation	for	testing	can	affect	the	results	(for	example,	levels	of	hydration)
(Kerr	
et	al.
	2017).	The	techniques	to	collect	the	data	are	simple;	however,
interpretation	of	the	data	is	impeded	given	that	the	formulas	used	by	the
equipment	to	calculate	body-fat/fat-free	mass	are	not	readily	available	and
instead	only	a	final	figure/figures	
are	displayed.	Client	preparation	for
measurement	is	important	given	the	effect	of	hydration	on	results.	Training	of
the	technician	is	needed	to	ensure	correct	preparation	of	the	skin	and	reliable
placement	of	electrodes	on	the	ankle	and	the	wrist.	Regional	body	assessment	is
possible	but	is	invalid.
Deuterium	dilution–doubly-labelled	water	technique
The	doubly-labelled	water	technique	(commonly	known	as	deuterium	dilution)
is	used	to	measure	body	water	and	total	energy	expenditure.	The	technique
requires	the	client	to	consume	a	stable	isotope	water	(known	as	doubly-labelled
water)	and	then	provide	urine	samples	for	several	days	after	the	initial	ingestion.
The	technique	is	a	non-invasive	way	of	measuring	the	rate	of	carbon	dioxide
production	in	clients	over	a	period	of	seven	to	14	days.	The	most	sensitive
means	of	measuring	the	isotopes	of	deuterium	and	oxygen-18	in	the	samples	is
by	isotope	ratio	mass	spectroscopy.	Due	to	the	technical	nature,	cost	and	lack	of
availability	of	the	equipment,	the	use	of	the	technique	is	uncommon.	The
reliability	of	the	technique	is	high.	Regional	body	assessment	is	not	possible;
instead,	total	body	water,	fat-free	mass	and	fat	mass	are	calculated.	The	time
commitment	for	clients	is	approximately	six	hours	given	the	repeat	samples
required.
Ultrasound
The	ultrasound	technique	for	measurement	of	subcutaneous	adipose	tissue	and
embedded	fibrous	structures	employs	image	capture	from	any	standard-
brightness	mode	ultrasound	machine,	followed	by	an	image-analysis	procedure.
The	technique	avoids	compression	of	the	tissues	and	movement	that	occurs
when	using	skinfold	calipers.	As	with	skinfolds,	the	ultrasound	technique	only
samples	the	subcutaneous	adipose	tissue	and	does	not	measure	the	fat	stored	in
deeper	depots.	It	is	an	accurate	and	reliable	technique	for	measurement	of
subcutaneous	adipose	tissue	provided	the	practitioner	has	had	certified	training
in	the	data	collection	and	use	of	the	analysis	software

in	the	data	collection	and	use	of	the	analysis	software
All	participants	must	be	marked	prior	to	measurement.	Measurements	are
taken	from	eight	standard	measurement	sites:	upper	abdomen,	lower	abdomen,
erector	spinae,	distal	triceps,	brachioradialis,	lateral	thigh,	front	thigh,	medial
calf.	The	operator	places	the	centre	of	the	ultrasound	probe	over	the	marked	site
to	capture	an	ultrasound	image.
Magnetic	resonance	imaging	(MRI)	and	computed
tomography	(CT)
Magnetic	resonance	imaging	and	computed	tomography	are	imaging	techniques
that	provide	highly	accurate	measures	of	body	composition	at	the	tissue-organ
level.	Computed	tomography	works	through	measuring	the	attenuation	of	X-rays
through	body	tissues,	whereas	magnetic	resonance	imaging	uses	a	strong
magnetic	field	to	align	
positively	charged	protons	in	the	body’s	tissues	which	are
then	digitised	to	provide	an	image.	Magnetic	resonance	imaging	is	a	safer
method	than	computed	tomography	as	it	does	not	expose	participants	to
radiation.	Due	to	high	cost	and	low	availability,	these	techniques	are	generally
only	used	for	clients	as	part	of	a	medical	assessment	or	for	research	purposes.
Both	techniques	are	considered	reference	methods	for	body	composition
assessment	due	to	their	high	precision	and	validity.
Dual	energy	X-ray	absorptiometry	(DXA)
Dual	energy	X-ray	absorptiometry	(DXA)	is	regarded	as	the	current	gold
standard	for	determining	body-fat	percentage	and	lean	mass.	The	DXA	machine
emits	sources	of	X-ray	energies	which	pass	through	the	body,	enabling
determination	of	bone	mineral	content,	lean	mass	and	fat	mass	for	the	whole
body	and	for	regional	areas.	Given	the	use	of	X-rays	(exposure	to	radiation),	the
International	Society	for	Clinical	Densitometry	has	established	clinical	practice
guidelines	relating	to	the	collection	and	analysis	of	DXA	data.	Standardisation	of
how	athletes	present	for	scanning	is	important.	Ideally	it	should	be	done	in	the
morning	and	they	should	be	well	hydrated	(urine	specific	gravity	(USG)
measurements	may	be	taken),	glycogen	replete	(not	having	exercised	heavily	the
day	before),	overnight-fasted	and	in	minimal	clothing	(such	as	singlet	and
underwear).	They	should	be	correctly	positioned	on	the	scanning	bed,	being
centrally	aligned	in	a	standard	position	using	custom-made	positioning	aids
(foam	blocks).	Following	the	scan,	images	should	be	reviewed	so	that	the

(foam	blocks).	Following	the	scan,	images	should	be	reviewed	so	that	the
automatic	segmentation	of	body	regional	areas	of	the	scan	can	be	checked	and
adjusted	manually	if	required.	Body	composition	assessment	using	such	a
protocol	will	ensure	a	high	level	of	precision,	while	still	being	practical	for
clients.	An	assessment	can	usually	be	completed	within	ten	minutes.
Three-dimensional	body	scanning
Three-dimensional	body	scanning	is	used	to	determine	surface	anthropometry
characteristics	such	as	body	volume,	segment	lengths	and	girths.	Three-
dimensional	scanning	systems	use	laser,	light	or	infra-red	technologies	to
acquire	shape	and	software	to	allow	manual	or	automatically	extracted	measures.
Body	posture	during	scanning	is	important	to	ensure	accurate	measures	can	be
made	from	the	images.	The	images	vary	depending	on	the	configuration,
resolution	and	accuracy	of	the	scanner.	Training	is	required	to	ensure	successful
use	of	three-dimensional	scanning	hardware	and	software.	The	hardware	for	full
body	scanning	is	expensive,	so	the	technique	is	not	commonly	available	yet.
Three-dimensional	body	scanning	protocols	(Stewart	&	Hume	2014)	are
available	at	the	J.E.	Lindsay	Carter	Kinanthropometry	Archive
<
https://www.aut.ac.nz/study/study-options/sport-and-recreation/research/j.e.-
lindsay-carter-clinic-for-kinanthropometry
>.
Three-dimensional	body	scanning	systems	integrated	with	other	imaging
modalities	to	create	multifaceted	digital	human	profiles,	and	artificial
intelligence	techniques	such	as	deep	learning	and	artificial	neural	networks,	are
set	to	revolutionise	the	physique	assessment	landscape	over	the	coming	decade.
Using	computer	vision	techniques,	it	is	now	possible	to	register	an	individual’s
DXA-derived	body	composition	with	the	mesh	exported	by	the	same
individual’s	three-dimensional	body	scan.	Technological	and	computing
innovations	are	rapidly	transforming	the	tools	we	employ	for	measuring,
recording,	collating	and	interpreting	body	dimension	and	composition
assessments.
HOW	BODY	COMPOSITION	CAN	BE	MODIFIED
Body	composition	changes	with	growth	and	maturation,	and	due	to	influences
such	as	diet	and	exercise.	Body	characteristics	such	as	stature	(height),	skeletal
lengths	and	breadths	are	not	adaptable	except	during	the	growth	periods,	but
body	mass,	lean	mass	and	fat	mass	are	more	modifiable	and	can	be	manipulated.

The	influence	of	a	person’s	genetic	profile	impacts	on	their	presenting	body
shape	(
morphology
),	as	well	as	their	responsiveness	to	interventions	that	aim	to
change	body	composition	and	shape	(Ivey	
et	al.
	2000)	and	the	associated
physique	capacity	(Kouri	
et	al.
	1995).
Morphology
The	body	shape.
Morphological	prediction
The	prediction	of	the	adult	body	shape	from	a	growing	child	or	adolescent.
Morphological	prototype
The	best	body	shape	and	distribution	of	soft	tissue	to	maximise	performance	in	a	given	sport.
Anticipating	adult	physique	in	a	growing	child	(
morphological	prediction
)
has	implications	for	athlete	talent	identification	and	development	for	sports
performance	(Hume	&	Stewart	2012).	During	growth,	segment	breadths	are
most	useful	for	prediction	of	adult	dimensions	because	they	remain	stable	in
relation	to	stature	throughout	adolescence.	Changes	in	soft	tissue	for	maximum
functional	effectiveness	(
morphological	prototype
)	respond	to	training.
Alignment	of	morphology	to	performance,	and	recognition	of	the	wide
individual	variability	in	maturation	rate,	helps	avoid	biasing	athlete	selection	or
overlooking	individuals	with	athletic	potential.
Body	composition	information	can	be	used	to	monitor	the	effectiveness	of
physique	manipulation	via	exercise	or	nutrition	(Cole	
et	al.
	2005)	interventions.
Physique	assessment	allows	identification	of	clients	who	require	additional
support	to	restore	or	maintain	physique	status	(for	example,	at-risk	clients	who
have	lost	or	gained	weight	rapidly).	Monitoring	the	progress	of	clients	in
meeting	their	physique	goals	(such	as	strength	and	conditioning	goals	to	increase
muscle	mass)	provides	motivation	to	continue	in	the	intervention.
Dietary	approaches	to	change	body	composition

Gaining	weight
When	an	athlete	is	interested	in	weight	gain,	in	most	cases	muscle	gain	is
desired.	For	muscle	gain	to	occur,	two	key	things	need	to	be	present:	excess
energy	intake	to	provide	energy	for	anabolism,	and	a	good	training	program	to
activate	the	muscle	tissue	and	encourage	growth	and	development.
From	a	dietary	perspective,	an	excess	of	2000–4000	kJ/day	is	usually	required
to	generate	consistent	muscle	gain.	This	is	best	achieved	by	eating	regular	meals
and	snacks	that	are	high	in	energy	and	nutrients.	It	is	realistic	to	expect	muscle
gain	of	2–4	kilograms	per	month;	however,	rates	of	muscle	gain	vary	between
individuals	and	genetics	can	play	a	considerable	role.	Consistency,	in	terms	of
both	diet	and	training	program,	is	key	for	successful	muscle	gain.	Excessive
energy	intake	without	appropriate	training	will	result	in	fat	gain	instead	of
muscle	gain.
As	an	example,	the	following	foods	combinations	can	provide	an	additional
2000	kJ:
•	full-fat	fruit	yoghurt	(200	g)	plus	25	almonds	plus	medium	banana	OR
•	half	a	large	avocado	spread	on	two	slices	of	toast	and	an	apple.
Eating	enough	food	to	obtain	the	additional	energy	can	be	challenging	for
some	athletes,	so	simple	meal	and	snack	ideas	can	make	a	big	difference.	In
recent	times,	the	popularity	of	‘shakes’	and	smoothies	has	been	helpful	for
athletes	trying	to	gain	weight,	as	some	find	it	easy	to	throw	ingredients	in	the
blender,	mix	and	drink	versus	eating.
Working	with	individual	athletes	to	put	together	a	realistic	eating	plan	is	very
important;	if	a	plan	is	not	followed	consistently,	results	are	likely	to	be	slow.
Additionally,	prioritising	real	foods	over	weight-gain	supplements	is	highly
recommended,	as	the	nutrient	density	of	wholesome	real	foods	is	likely	to
outweigh	commercial	protein	powder-based	products.
Losing	weight
Generally,	when	weight	loss	is	desired	it	is	‘fat’	loss	people	think	about;	while
fat	is	the	most	common	form	of	weight	athletes	may	want	to	lose,	there	are
circumstances—such	as	in	weight	category	sports—where	athletes	may	not	be
concerned	about	what	weight	type	they	lose	as	long	as	they	weigh	in	below	the
cut-off	(see	
Chapter	17
).
Nutrition	professionals	generally	recommend	that	weight	is	lost	slowly,
aiming	for	about	500	grams	weight	loss	per	week.	This	can	be	achieved	through
a	2000	kJ/day	energy	restriction—that	is,	reducing	energy	intake	by	2000	kJ
every	day	below	total	requirements.	This	should	be	planned	based	on	current

dietary	intake	and	on	what	the	individual’s	body	composition	has	been	over	the
last	2–3	months,	as	well	as	any	planned	changes	in	training.	If	training	is	to
remain	consistent	and	weight	has	been	
stable,	then	reducing	the	athlete’s	usual
diet	by	2000	kJ	per	day	can	often	be	effective.	This	can	be	done	by	reducing
portion	sizes	at	each	meal	time	or	by	cutting	out	unnecessary	items	and
discretionary	foods.
The	best	approach	will	vary	from	athlete	to	athlete,	and	hence	should	be
planned	in	a	collaborative	way.	However,	if	weight	has	not	been	stable	over	the
last	2–3	months	(either	increasing	or	decreasing)	and/or	training	is	about	to
change	considerably,	then	more	care	will	need	to	be	taken	to	determine	a
suitable	total	dietary	intake	to	enable	healthy	weight	loss	to	occur.
ISSUES	TO	CONSIDER	FOR	BODY
COMPOSITION	ASSESSMENT
Data	interpretation
Physique	assessment	provides	valuable	information;	however,	taken	in	isolation
physique	assessment	can	easily	be	misinterpreted	or	misused.	Additional
information,	such	as	dietary	intake	and	training	load,	and	input	from	exercise
and	health	professionals,	is	required	to	fully	interpret	findings	and	make
recommendations.
Physique	and	sport
Profiling	of	athletes	at	all	levels	of	participation	in	sport	can	help	determine
potential	suitability	for	sport	and	effectiveness	of	interventions	such	as	diet	and
training.	As	scientists	and	clinicians,	we	ask	what	physique	characteristics	are
important	for	athletes	in	the	sports	we	work	with	to	help	improve	performance
(Keogh	
et	al.
	2009)	or	reduce	injury	risk;	what	should	we	measure	and	monitor?
Athletes,	and	their	coaches,	often	ask	how	the	athletes’	physique	compares	to
elite	athletes	in	their	sport.	Accessing	normative	data	for	athletes	at	all	levels	of
participation	from	development	to	elite	can	be	difficult.	Consideration	of
population	trends	for	physique	characteristics	in	normative	databases	is	needed.
Where	possible,	current	research	data	should	be	gained	to	enable	comparisons	of
physique	characteristics	for	athletes	of	similar	age,	gender,	ethnicity	and	sports

participation	level.
Large-scale	surveys	of	world-class	athletes	have	been	conducted	at	Olympic
Games	(Kerr	
et	al.
	2007)	and	world	championship	events	for	over	60	years.
These	projects	have	provided	data	for	identifying	unique	physique
characteristics	for	selected	sports	that	aim	to	optimise	power,	leverage	or	have	a
high	metabolic	demand.	Physique	characteristics	play	an	important	role	in	the
self-selection	of	individuals	for	competitive	sport.	However,	as	a	large	number
of	factors	are	involved	in	the	physical	make-up	of	a	champion	sportsman	or
sportswoman,	there	is	not	necessarily	one	perfect	body	shape	for	a	particular
sport	or	event	within	that	sport.	Anthropometric	tools	have	been	used	in
profiling	athletes’	trajectory	to	optimising	the	trainable	parameters	at	the	times
that	
matter	most.	This	is	important	for	weight	category	sports,	where	athletes
may	be	at	risk	of	employing	unsafe	weight	control	practices	in	order	to	‘make
weight’.	Rowing	and	powerlifting	are	two	sports	that	require	body	mass	to	meet
weight	class	categories	for	competition.	Gymnastics	is	a	sport	that	has	pressure
for	leanness	due	to	aesthetic	reasons	(see	
Chapter	17
).	We	need	to	understand
what	physique	characteristics	are	important	for	athletes	to	help	improve
performance	or	reduce	injury	risk.
Body	image
The	concept	of	body	image	includes	how	we	perceive,	think,	feel	and,
ultimately,	behave	due	to	our	own	conception	of	our	physical	image.	Body-
image	dissatisfaction	is	when	there	is	a	difference	between	our	perceived	body
image	and	our	desired	body	image.	The	prevalence	of	
body-image	disorders
	in
athletic	populations	remains	worryingly	high.	The	assessment	of	body	image	in
people	may	progress	with	the	use	of	modern	three-dimensional	scanning
technology	together	with	volumetric	assessment.	The	novel	iPad	SomatoMac
application	may	be	useful	for	estimates	of	body-image	dissatisfaction	and
distortion,	especially	in	athletes	(Macfarlane	
et	al.
	2016).
Body-image	disorder
A	mental	disorder	in	which	an	individual	continually	focuses	on	one	or	more	perceived	flaws	in
appearance	that	are	minor	or	not	observable	to	others.
Somatotype
Classification	of	the	human	physical	shape	according	to	the	body	build	or	shape.

The	SomatoMac	application	uses	male	and	female	
somato
type
	photographs
that	allow	more	comprehensive	estimates	of	body-image	dissatisfaction	than
existing	figural	silhouettes	and	pictorial	scales.
TRAINING	OF	PHYSIQUE	ASSESSMENT
PROVIDERS
Training,	accreditation	and	quality-assurance	schemes	ensure	appropriate	levels
of	professionalism	and	safety	for	the	public	who	utilise	physique	assessment
programs.	There	are	only	two	international	training	and	certification	programs
for	surface	anthropometry	and	ultrasound	techniques.	Manufacturers’	training	on
equipment	is	provided	for	three-dimensional	scanning,	Bod	Pod
®
,	bioelectrical
impedance	analysis,	dual	energy	X-ray	absorptiometry,	magnetic	resonance
imaging	and	computed	tomography.	Ethical	considerations	in	assessing
anthropometry	profiles	for	clients	are	important.	Practitioners	need	to	maintain
professional	objectivity	and	integrity	and	respect	the	client	during	physique
assessment.	Client	safety	and	wellbeing	are	paramount	in	assessments,	and
practitioners	must	ensure	the	client	understands	all	procedures	and	that	consent
is	gained	to	conduct	the	physique	assessment.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	understand	what	body	composition	is,
understand	the	importance	of	the	validity	and	reliability	of	methods	used	to
assess	body	
composition,	and	be	familiar	with	how	body	composition	can	be
modified.	You	will	have	identified	anthropometric	methods	that	can	help	you	to
monitor	your	ability	to	achieve	goals	of	modifying	body	composition.
Key	messages
•	Body	composition	is	the	relative	proportions	of	fat,	protein,	water	and	mineral
components	in	the	body.
•	Anthropometry	is	the	comparative	study	of	sizes	and	proportions	of	the	human
body.
•	There	are	valid	and	reliable	techniques	used	to	assess	body	composition;
however,	practitioner	training	is	required	and	client	presentation	for
assessment	can	affect	results.

assessment	can	affect	results.
•	Body	composition	can	be	modified	via	growth	and	development,	diet	and
exercise.
•	Athletes	aiming	to	gain	muscle	mass	need	to	make	sure	they	consistently	eat
appropriate	foods	containing	the	required	amount	of	additional	energy	(excess
of	2000–4000	kJ/day)	and	exercise	appropriately.
•	Athletes	aiming	to	lose	fat	mass	need	to	make	sure	they	consistently	have	an
energy	deficit	of	2000	kJ/day.
•	Physique	assessment	provides	an	objective	measure	of	body	composition	status
in	relation	to	physical	performance,	health	status	and	diet.
REFERENCES
Cole,	C.R.,	Salvaterra,	G.F.,	Davis,	J.E.J	et	al.,	2005,	‘Evaluation	of	dietary
practices	of	national	collegiate	athletic	association	division	I	football	players’,
Journal	of	Strength	and	Conditioning	Research,
	vol.	19,	no.	3,	pp.	490–4.
Hume,	P.	&	Marfell-Jones,	M.,	2008,	‘The	importance	of	accurate	site
location	for	skinfold	measurement’,	
Journal	of	Sports	Science,
	vol.	26,	no.
12,	pp.	1333–40.	Hume,	P.A.,	Kerr,	D.	&	Ackland,	T.	(eds),	2017,	
Best
Practice	Protocols	for	Physique	Assessment	in	Sport
,	Singapore:	Springer
Nature	Singapore.	Hume,	P.A.	&	Stewart,	A.D.,	2012,	‘Body	composition
change’,	in	Stewart,	A.D.	&	Sutton,	L.	(eds),	
Body	Composition	in	Sport,
Exercise	and	Health
,	London,	UK:	Taylor	and	Francis,	pp.	147–165.	Ivey,
F.M.,	Roth,	S.M.,	Ferrell,	R.E.	et	al.,	2000,	‘Effects	of	age,	gender,	and
myostatin	genotype	on	the	hypertrophic	response	to	heavy	resistance	strength
training’,	
Journal	of	Gerontology,
	vol.	55,	no.	11,	pp.	M641–8.	Keogh,
J.W.L.,	Hume,	P.A.,	Mellow,	P.	et	al.,	2009,	‘Can	absolute	and	proportional
anthropometric	characteristics	distinguish	stronger	and	weaker	powerlifters?’,
Journal	of	Strength	and	Conditioning	Research,
	vol.	23,	no.	8,	pp.	2256–65.
Kerr,	A.,	Slater,	G.	&	Byrne,	N.,	2017,	‘Impact	of	food	and	fluid	intake	on
technical	and	biological	measurement	error	in	body	composition	assessment
methods	in	athletes’,	
British	Journal	of	Nutrition,
	vol.	117,	no.	4,	pp.	591–
601.
Kerr,	D.A.,	Ross,	W.D.,	Norton,	K.P.	et	al.,	2007,	‘Olympic	lightweight	and
open-class	rowers	possess	distinctive	physical	and	proportionality
characteristics’,	
Journal	of	Sports	Sciences,
	vol.	25,	no.	1,	pp.	43–5.
Kouri,	E.M.,	Pope,	H.G.,	Katz,	D.L.	et	al.,	1995,	‘Fat-free	mass	index	in	users
and	nonusers	of	anabolic-androgenic	steroids’,	
Clinical	Journal	of	Sports
Medicine,
	vol.	5,	no.	4,	pp.	223–8.

Lee,	S.Y.	&	Gallagher,	D.,	2008,	‘Assessment	methods	in	human	body
composition’,	
Current	Opinion	in	Clinical	Nutrition	and	Metabolic	Care,
	vol.
11,	no.	11,	pp.	566–72.
Macfarlane,	D.J.,	Lee,	A.,	Hume,	P.	et	al.,	2016,	‘Development	and	reliability	of
a	novel	iPad-based	application	to	rapidly	assess	body	image:	3776	Board#
215’,	
Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	48,	no.	6,	p.	1056.
Stewart,	A.D.	&	Hume,	P.A.,	2014,	
Bideltoid	Breadth	Measurement
	[Online],
J.E.	Lindsay	Carter	Kinanthropometry	Archive	3D	Scanning	Protocols,
available	at:	www.sprinz.aut.ac.nz/clinics/j.e.-lindsay-carter-
kinanthropometry-clinic/archive.

Endurance	sports
Gregory	Cox
Endurance	sport	encompasses	a	variety	of	activities	(running,	swimming,
cycling,	paddling),	sometimes	in	combination	(adventure	racing,	triathlon)
across	a	range	of	distances	and	intensities	(5-kilometre	ocean	swim,	10-
kilometre	run,	ironman	triathlon	or	multi-day	stage	cycling	race).	Other
activities,	while	not	considered	endurance	sports	by	definition	as	the	actual
competition	only	lasts	3–6	minutes	(for	example,	sprint	canoe,	rowing,	middle-
distance	running),	routinely	incorporate	endurance	training	sessions.	We	now
acknowledge	that	endurance	sport	athletes	have	unique	requirements	to
maximise	favourable	responses	to	training,	assist	recovery,	maintain	health	and
wellbeing	and	facilitate	daily	training	and	competition	performance.	Given	the
requirements	to	manage	body	composition	while	meeting	high	daily	energy	and
nutrient	demands,	purposeful	dietary	planning	is	required	for	endurance	athletes.
Understanding	the	sport	culture,	the	individual	athletes’	food	preferences	and
beliefs,	the	dynamics	of	weekly	training,	the	environmental	conditions	in	which
they	train	and	race,	and	the	logistics	for	nutrition	support	for	racing	will	define
the	effectiveness	of	nutrition	support	to	endurance	sport	athletes.	This	chapter
will	explore	daily	training	needs	of	endurance	sport	athletes	and	outline	various

will	explore	daily	training	needs	of	endurance	sport	athletes	and	outline	various
nutrition	considerations	for	endurance	competition.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	understand	the	nutrition	challenges	faced	by	endurance	athletes	in	daily
training
•	describe	daily	carbohydrate	requirements	for	endurance	athletes	and	identify
important	considerations	when	managing	individual	athletes
•	assess	an	athlete’s	daily	food	and	fluid	intake	and	identify	key	areas	to	modify
to	optimise	daily	training	performance,	recovery	and	the	favoured	metabolic
adaptations	to	training
•	identify	important	considerations	for	racing	and	the	need	to	customise	nutrition
support	across	the	wide	variety	of	endurance	events
•	manipulate	fluid	intake	advice	according	to	an	athlete’s	likely	requirements.
NUTRITION	PRINCIPLES	FOR	DAILY
TRAINING
Endurance	athletes	(recreational	and	elite)	commit	considerable	effort,	time	and
finances	to	training	and	racing.	Yet	few	invest	in	the	services	of	experienced
qualified	sports	nutrition	professionals	to	assist	them	in	individualising	their
daily	food	and	fluid	intakes	or	in	developing	a	race	nutrition	plan.	Rather,
endurance	athletes	rely	heavily	on	information	from	other	athletes,	online
forums,	sport-specific	magazines,	supplement	company	websites	and	coaches.	A
common	mistake	for	recreational	endurance	athletes	is	to	model	their	daily
and/or	race	nutrition	choices	on	an	elite	athlete.	Social	media	is	commonly	used
by	endurance	athletes	to	inform	the	broader	community	about	their	food	and
fluid	preferences.	Daily	training,	physiology	and	annual	race	calendars	vary
considerably	between	athletes,	and	ultimately	dictate	daily	nutritional	needs	and
race-day	nutrition	tactics.	Given	the	delicate	balance	involved	in	maintaining
health	and	wellbeing	while	optimising	daily	training	performance	and	recovery,
expert	nutrition	advice	should	be	sought	by	endurance	athletes.
Elite	and	recreational	endurance	athletes	alike	are	time-poor.	Elite	endurance
athletes	can	train	up	to	five	sessions	daily	while	juggling	sponsor	commitments,
travel	and	performance	support	appointments.	Recreational	endurance	athletes,

while	not	training	at	the	same	level,	are	required	to	balance	lifestyle
commitments	such	as	work,	study	and	family	in	between	daily	workouts.	Careful
planning	of	daily	meals	and	snacks	that	provide	nutritious	options	aligned	to	the
training	goals	while	offering	convenience	and	taste	is	a	high	priority	for
endurance	athletes.	Further,	consideration	of	the	annual	training	plan	is	required,
as	the	emphasis	changes	throughout	the	year	(see	
Chapter	9
).
Matching	daily	energy	needs
Dietary	surveys	of	endurance	athletes	commonly	report	dietary	intakes	that	fall
below	recommendations	for	energy	(kilojoules),	carbohydrate	and	various
vitamins	and	
minerals.	This	mismatch	of	daily	energy	intake	with	the	daily
energy	requirements	for	training	is	likely	due	to	a	combination	of	issues.	Firstly,
there	is	no	strong	biological	drive	to	match	energy	intake	to	activity-induced
energy	expenditure.	Hunger	is	often	suppressed	in	endurance	athletes	following
intense	training,	particularly	in	activities	such	as	running	which	can	cause
gastrointestinal	discomfort	and	upset.	Secondly,	given	the	importance	of
maintaining	a	light	and	lean	physique	to	optimise	endurance	performance,	many
endurance	athletes	adopt	an	overly	restrictive	approach	with	their	food	and	fluid
choices	in	an	attempt	to	minimise	body-fat	levels.	Finally,	athletes	may	not	be
sufficiently	organised	to	ensure	appropriate	foods	and	fluids	are	available	on
heavy	training	days,	creating	a	practical	barrier	to	meeting	their	daily	energy
needs.	Interestingly,	when	athletes	are	well	supported	and	organised—such	as
athletes	contesting	the	Tour	de	France—research	has	demonstrated	that	they	are
able	to	match	energy	intake	with	daily	energy	expenditure	even	on	the	most
strenuous	of	cycling	stages	(Saris	
et	al.
	1989).
Given	daily	fluctuations	in	training,	endurance	athletes	should	be	educated	so
that	they	possess	the	necessary	food	knowledge	and	skills	to	customise	daily
food	and	fluid	intakes	in	order	to	manipulate	daily	energy,	and	subsequently
nutrient,	intakes.	Athletes	need	to	be	well	organised	to	include	additional	extras
in	the	way	of	training	food	and	fluids,	between-meal	snacks	and/or	main	meal
extras	on	heavy	training	days	to	increase	their	daily	energy	intake.	When
additional	foods	and	fluids	are	included	throughout	the	day	should	be
determined	by	the	primary	goal	of	individual	training	sessions,	the	time	for
recovery	between	training	and	food	and	fluid	tolerance,	as	well	as	logistics.
Conversely,	on	rest	days	or	lighter	training	days	when	daily	energy	requirements
are	reduced,	food	and	fluids	intake	should	be	adjusted	accordingly.
Endurance	athletes,	male	and	female,	are	at	increased	risk	of	suffering	from

low	energy	availability.	This	is	not	surprising,	given	the	high	daily	training	loads
common	to	many	endurance	training	programs	coupled	with	an	emphasis	on
maintaining	lean	physiques.	Low	energy	availability	occurs	with	a	reduction	in
energy	intake	and/	or	an	increased	exercise	load,	leading	to	the	disruption	of
hormonal	and	metabolic	systems.	Low	energy	availability	is	central	to	
RED-S
(relative	energy	deficiency	in	sport),	which	affects	numerous	aspects	of	health
and	performance,	including	metabolic	rate,	menstrual	function,	bone	health,
immunity,	protein	synthesis,	cardiovascular	and	psychological	health.
RED-S
Relative	energy	deficiency	in	sport,	a	syndrome	of	impaired	physiological	function	caused	by	relative
energy	deficiency.
Disordered	eating
Eating	behaviours	that	are	not	healthy	or	normal,	including	restrained	eating,	binge	eating,	fasting,	heavy
exercise,	using	excessive	laxatives	or	purging.
Disordered	eating
	is	common	in	cases	of	low	energy	availability;	however,
mismanaged	attempts	to	quickly	reduce	body	mass	or	fat	mass	or	acute	increases
in	daily	training	
loads	may	result	in	low	energy	availability.	Performance
support	staff	and	coaches	should	communicate	regularly	to	discuss	the	health
and	wellbeing	of	the	athletes	in	their	care.	Communication	around	the	annual
plan	and	weekly	training	load	is	central	and	allows	the	sports	nutrition
professional	to	adjust	messaging	around	daily	fuel	requirements.	The	inclusion
of	assessment	tools	such	as	resting	energy	expenditure,	dietary	intake,	hormone
profiling,	body	composition	and	bone	health	are	useful	tools	in	managing
endurance	athletes	to	better	understand	their	health	and	wellbeing.
Carbohydrate	intake	guidelines	for	daily	training
For	endurance	athletes	training	strenuously,	daily	carbohydrate	demands	can
exceed	the	body’s	capacity	to	store	carbohydrate.	Thus,	the	availability	of
carbohydrate	as	fuel	to	support	training	performance	and	assist	recovery	is
crucial.	During	intense	sustained	or	intermittent	exercise	typical	of	endurance
events	or	high-intensity	endurance	training	sessions,	carbohydrate	is	the	primary
fuel	to	support	exercise	performance.	Carbohydrate	intake	should	be	modified	in
response	to	fluctuations	in	daily	training	load.	Further,	the	intake	of	additional
carbohydrate	should	be	strategically	coordinated	around	training	to	optimise

carbohydrate	should	be	strategically	coordinated	around	training	to	optimise
training	performance,	facilitate	recovery	and	enhance	the	adaptation	to	training.
The	International	Olympic	Committee	on	Nutrition	for	Sport	updated	its
carbohydrate	intake	guidelines	in	2010—see	
Table	14.1
	for	an	abridged	version.
This	update	provided	the	impetus	for	sports	nutrition	professionals	to	interrogate
the	guidelines,	understand	daily	training	patterns	and	subsequently	customise
carbohydrate	intake	recommendations	for	individual	athletes	on	a	daily	basis.	No
longer	are	carbohydrate	guidelines	provided	generically	to	athletes	based	on
body	size	or	type	of	sport.	In	assessing	daily	carbohydrate	needs	when	managing
endurance	athletes,	you	should	consider:
•	daily	training	intensity,	frequency	and	duration
•	body	weight	and	composition	of	the	athlete
•	body	composition	adjustments,	whether	it	be	weight	loss	or	additional
requirements	associated	with	growth
•	subjective	feedback	from	the	athlete	relating	to	training	performance	and
recovery
•	gender
•	training	state	and	training	age
•	changes	in	the	training	environment,	such	as	altitude	and	heat.
Box	14.1
	provides	a	meal	plan	example	for	an	elite	female	triathlete.	The	meal
plan	highlights	the	importance	of	considering	the	broader	nutritional	goals	of	the
athlete	when	planning	daily	carbohydrate	intake.	Specific	attention	should	be
given	to	the	timing	of	carbohydrate	intake	and	use	of	different	carbohydrate
foods	and	fluid	to	coordinate	carbohydrate	intake	around	training	to	support
daily	performance	and	recovery.
Table	14.1.	Daily	carbohydrate	intake	recommendations	for	endurance
athletes
Situation
Carbohydrate
targets
Comments	on	type	and
timing	of	carbohydrate
intake
DAILY	CARBOHYDRATE	NEEDS	TO	SUPPORT	TRAINING	AND
RECOVERY—
these	general	recommendations	should	be	fine-tuned	with
individual	consideration	of	total	energy	needs,	body	composition,	daily
training	loads	and	feedback	from	training	performance.
Light
Low	intensity
or	skill-based
3–5	g/kg/d
Timing	of	carbohydrate
intake	around	training

or	skill-based
activities
intake	around	training
should	support	the
primary	goal	for	each
session.	Convenience,
athlete	tolerance,
individual	preferences
and	logistics	are
important	considerations.
Nutrient-rich
carbohydrate	food/fluids
assist	the	athlete	to	meet
overall	nutrition	goals
and	should	be	prioritised.
Timely	intake	of	a
carbohydrate-containing
food/fluid	immediately
after	training	should	align
with	overall	nutrition
goals	and	consider	timing
of	next	training	session
and	scheduled	meal.
Moderate
Moderate
exercise
program	(i.e.
~1	hr	per	day)
5–7	g/kg/d
High
Endurance
program	(e.g.
1–3	hr/d
moderate-to
high-intensity
exercise)
6–10	g/kg/d
Very	high
Extreme
commitment
(e.g.	>4–5
hr/d
moderate-to
high-intensity
exercise
8–12	g/kg/d
ACUTE	FUELLING	STRATEGIES—
these	guidelines	promote	high
carbohydrate	availability	to	promote	optimal	performance	in	endurance
competition	or	key	training	sessions.	Event	demands	and	body	composition
should	be	considered	when	interpreting	these	guidelines.
General
fuelling	up
Endurance
events	<90
min
5–10	g/kg/d
Athletes	may	choose
compact	carbohydrate-
rich	sources	that	are	low
in	fibre/residue	and	easily
consumed	to	ensure	that
fuel	targets	are	met	while
avoiding	issues	relating	to
gastrointestinal
discomfort.
Carbohydrate
loading
Endurance
events	>90
min
36–48	h	of	8–
12	g/kg/d
Pre-event
fuelling
Before
exercise	(>60
min)
1–4	g/kg
consumed
1–4	hr	before
exercise
Timing,	amount	and	type
of	carbohydrate	food	and
drinks	should	be	chosen
to	suit	the	practical	needs

exercise
to	suit	the	practical	needs
of	the	event	and
individual
preferences/experiences
of	the	athlete.
Choices	high	in
fat/protein/fibre	may	need
to	be	avoided	to	reduce
risk	of	gastrointestinal
issues.
Low	glycaemic	index
choices	may	provide	a
more	sustained	source	of
fuel	for	situations	where
carbohydrate	cannot	be
consumed	during
exercise,	although	being
familiar	with	these	foods
items	is	important.	Liquid
carbohydrate-containing
options	provide	a
convenient	option,
particularly	for	athletes
unable	to	tolerate	foods
due	to	‘pre-race	nerves’.
Source:	Modified	from	Burke	
et	al.
	2011.
Box	14.1:	Example	meal	plan	for	an	elite	female	triathlete
Pre-training	snack	(6.30am)
Slice	of	toast	with	honey	Coffee	with	milk
Training	(7.00am)
12	km	Tempo	run	~60minutes.
Components	of	performance	running	for
the	last	15–20	minutes
Breakfast	(8.15am)
Mixed	wholegrain	cereal	with	milk,	high-
protein	yoghurt	with	mixed	berries	and
almonds
Grain	toast	with	poached	egg,	spinach,

Grain	toast	with	poached	egg,	spinach,
mushrooms	and	tomato
Training	(10.30am)
Swim	set	–	75–90	minutes
Total	swim	4.5	km,	with	quality	main	set
of	1500	km
Immediately	post-training
prior	to	physiotherapy
appointment
Liquid	meal	supplement	(provides	
20	g
protein	and	
40	g	carbohydrate)	Banana
Lunch	out	with	friends
(1.30pm)
Toasted	chicken,	avocado	and	salad	wrap
Fruit	salad	with	yoghurt
Skinny	flat	white	coffee
Afternoon	snack
2	x	Rice	cakes	with	spread
Fluid	top-up
Afternoon	training
(4.30pm)
Cycle	–	1	h	15	minutes	criterium	cycle
race	(40	minutes	quality)	with	4	km	run
off	the	bike	at	race	pace
Carbohydrate	gel,	water	and	sports	drink
(300–400	ml)	during	criterium	cycle
Post-training	drink	while	at
ice-bath	(6.15pm)
Flavoured	milk	(250	ml)	Water	Nut	and
dried	fruit	mix
Dinner	(7.30pm)
Lean	beef	and	vegetable	stir-fry	(assorted
vegetables	included)	Brown	rice
Piece	of	fruit	±	yoghurt
Supper
Glass	of	milk
Source:	Gregory	Cox.
The	meal	plan	in	
Box	14.1
	is	based	on	an	elite	female	triathlete.	Elite
triathletes	train	2–5	times	daily	using	a	mix	of	low-intensity	aerobic	and	high-
intensity	repeat-effort	work.	Elite	triathletes	need	to	be	well	organised	to	meet
daily	energy,	carbohydrate	and	nutrient	needs	to	maintain	training	performance,
health	and	wellbeing.	Timing	appropriate	snacks	around	training	and	including
nutritious	foods	at	meals	that	provide	antioxidants	in	addition	to	carbohydrate,
protein	and	healthy	fats	will	assist	training	performance	and	recovery.
How	aggressive	refuelling	strategies	are	employed	after	exercise	should
reflect	the	glycogen	likely	to	have	been	used	in	the	session,	the	timing	of	the
next	session,	the	next	meal	time	and	the	broader	nutrition	goals	of	the	athlete.

Hence,	the	approach	taken	to	refuelling	strategies	should	be	periodised
throughout	the	week,	or	even	the	training	year,	depending	on	the	key	training
goals.	A	well	thought-out	timetable	will	allow	preparation	before,	and	recovery
after,	key	training	sessions	and	competition.	It	may	not	matter	that	lower
intensity	sessions	are	undertaken	without	full	refuelling—in	fact,	there	may
actually	be	some	advantages	to	this	(see	
Box	14.2
).
Box	14.2:	How	much	glycogen	do	endurance	athletes	use?
An	intense	high-quality	endurance	cycling	session	consisting	of	8	x	5-
minute	maximal	efforts	will	deplete	muscle	glycogen	stores	by	about	50	per
cent	(Stepto	
et	al.
	2001).	A	sports	nutrition	professional	should	be	familiar
with	the	specific	carbohydrate	requirements	of	the	athletes	they	manage
when	providing	advice	regarding	strategies	for	carbohydrate	intake	around
daily	training	and	racing.
In	the	1–2	hours	after	hard	exercise,	the	muscle	is	primed	to	absorb	and	store
carbohydrate—this	is	referred	to	as	the	
window	of	opportunity
.	While	early
feeding	promotes	refuelling	at	the	high	end	of	the	storage	range,	muscle	will
continue	to	take	up	carbohydrate	in	response	to	food	consumed	at	meals
throughout	the	day.	It	is	worth	taking	advantage	of	this	window	when	recovery
time	is	short	and	refuelling	needs	are	particularly	important	(for	example,	
after	a
Friday	morning	run	with	the	next	session	scheduled	on	Sunday	morning).	The
overall	carbohydrate	intake,	not	the	timing	of	carbohydrate	intake,	will	be	the
driving	force	behind	how	much	muscle	glycogen	is	restored	during	recovery
periods	that	extend	over	24–28	hours.
Window	of	opportunity
In	sports	nutrition	and	training	this	refers	to	the	1–2	hours	after	hard	exercise	in	which	the	muscle	is
primed	to	absorb	and	store	carbohydrate.
Training	with	low	carbohydrate	availability
In	recent	times,	much	has	been	written	about	purposely	training	and/or	sleeping
with	low	muscle	glycogen	stores	to	accelerate	favourable	adaptations	that	occur

with	low	muscle	glycogen	stores	to	accelerate	favourable	adaptations	that	occur
in	response	to	aerobic	exercise.	Training	when	fasted,	withholding	carbohydrate
during	extended	sessions,	limiting	carbohydrate	during	recovery	between
training	sessions,	and	sleeping	with	low	muscle	glycogen	stores	have	all	been
investigated	to	determine	the	likely	benefits	of	‘training	low’.	Whether	to
strategically	incorporate	training	low	techniques	into	the	weekly	training
schedule	should	be	discussed	with	the	athlete	support	team	as	there	are	several
performance	and	health	implications	to	consider.
Protein	to	promote	recovery	and	gains	in	lean	body
mass
While	much	of	the	research	focus	on	endurance	athletes	has	centred	on
carbohydrate,	protein	plays	a	particularly	important	role	for	endurance	athletes.
While	protein	requirements	for	endurance	athletes	are	increased,	they	are
typically	met	as	the	athlete	increases	their	daily	energy	intake.	However,
strategic	timing	of	protein-containing	foods	and/or	fluids	immediately	after
training	and/or	during	extended	training	sessions	can	assist	in	maintaining	or
increasing	lean	body	mass	as	well	as	enhancing	favourable	metabolic	responses
to	endurance	exercise.	Sports	nutrition	professionals	should	be	purposeful	in
their	planning	by	including	protein-containing	foods	and	fluids	immediately
following	targeted	endurance	training	sessions	(see	
Box	14.1
).
Gastrointestinal	bleeding
Bleeding	that	occurs	from	any	part	of	the	gastrointestinal	tract,	but	typically	from	the	small	intestine,
large	intestine,	rectum	or	anus.	Gastrointestinal	bleeding	is	not	a	disease,	but	is	a	symptom	of	many
diseases.	For	athletes,	bleeding	may	occur	due	to	sloughing	of	intestinal	lining	as	a	result	of	the	continual
jarring	that	occurs	when	running	on	hard	surfaces.
Haemolysis
The	rupture	of	red	blood	cells.
Iron	is	an	important	micronutrient	for	endurance
athletes

Endurance	athletes	are	prone	to	having	low	iron	status	caused	by	inadequate
dietary	intake	in	combination	with	increased	iron	losses	(for	instance,	through
gastrointestinal	bleeding
,	sweating	and	
haemolysis
),	increased	iron	needs	(for
instance,	when	training	at	altitude)	and	reduced	iron	absorption	(which	occurs
during	the	post-exercise	window,	particularly	when	exercise	is	undertaken	with
low	glycogen	stores).	Regardless	of	the	stage	of	iron	depletion,	all	types	of	iron
deficiency	should	be	carefully	managed.	A	planned	assessment	schedule	for	iron
status	should	be	considered	within	
the	annual	training,	competition	and	travel
plans	of	endurance	athletes.	Athletes	will	benefit	from	education	that	highlights
dietary	sources	of	iron	as	well	as	ways	to	improve	iron	absorption	(
Table	14.2
).
The	use	of	iron	supplements	may	be	necessary	at	specific	times	for	certain
athletes	and	should	be	managed	by	the	sports	medicine	physician	and	sports
dietitian.
Table	14.2.	Components	in	food	that	affect	bioavailability	of	iron
Iron	enhancers
Iron	inhibitors
Vitamin	C-rich	foods	(ascorbic	acid)
•	salad,	lightly	cooked	green
vegetables,	some	fruits	and	citrus
fruit	juices	or	vitamin	C-fortified
fruit	juices
Some	fermented	foods
•	miso,	some	types	of	soy	sauce
Meat	enhancer	factor
•	found	in	beef,	liver,	lamb,	chicken
and	fish
Alcohol	and	some	organic	acids
•	very	low-pH	foods	containing	citric
acid,	tartaric	acid,	
e.g.
	citrus	fruit
Vitamin	A	and	beta-carotene
•	liver,	animal	fats,	carrots,	sweet
potato
Phytates
•	found	in	cereal	grains,	wheat	bran,
legumes,	nuts,	peanut	butter,	seeds,
bran,	soy	products,	soy	protein	and
spinach
Polyphenolic	compounds
•	strong	tea	and	coffee,	herb	tea,
cocoa,	red	wine,	some	spices,	
e.g.
oregano
Calcium	inhibits	both	haem	and	non-
haem	iron	absorption	as	iron	and
calcium	co-compete	for	absorption
across	the	gut	(milk,	cheese)
Peptides	from	partially	digested	plant
proteins
•	soy	protein	isolates,	soy	products
RACE-DAY	NUTRITION	STRATEGIES
Optimal	performance	during	competition	is	achieved	by	targeting	the	factors	that

would	otherwise	cause	fatigue	or	a	reduction	in	work	output	and/or	skill.
Nutritional	factors	that	can	cause	fatigue	include	depletion	of	glycogen	stores,
low	blood	glucose	levels	(
hypoglycaemia
),	dehydration,	low	blood	sodium
levels	(
hyponatraemia
),	and	gastrointestinal	upset.	Eating	strategies	in
preparation	for	the	race	and	during	the	race	should	be	implemented	to	avoid	or
reduce	the	impact	of	these	problems.
Hypoglycaemia
Low	blood	glucose	levels.
Hyponatraemia
Low	blood	sodium	levels.
Bonking
An	athletic	term	describing	a	sudden	and	overwhelming	feeling	of	running	out	of	energy,	often	also
termed	‘hitting	the	wall’	during	endurance	events.
Carbohydrate	loading	for	endurance	racing
Carbohydrate	is	stored	within	the	muscle	as	glycogen.	Carbohydrate	loading,	if
done	appropriately,	increases	muscle	glycogen	stores—thereby	delaying	the
point	of	fatigue,	commonly	referred	to	as	‘
bonking
’	in	endurance	circles.
Carbohydrate	
loading	emerged	in	the	late	1960s,	when	Scandinavian	researchers
found	that	3–4	days	of	carbohydrate	deprivation,	followed	by	three	days	of	high
carbohydrate	eating	resulted	in	a	supercompensation	of	muscle	glycogen	and	a
subsequent	improvement	in	endurance	exercise	capacity	(Bergstrom	
et	al.
	1967).
This	method	was	later	refined,	when	Sherman	
et	al.
	(1981)	found	that	muscle
glycogen	stores	increased	to	similar	levels	without	the	three	days	of	depletion
prior	to	3–4	days	of	high	carbohydrate	eating	and	rest.
Despite	a	greater	reliance	on	muscle	glycogen	when	pre-exercise
concentrations	are	elevated	with	carbohydrate	loading	prior	to	exercise,
carbohydrate	loading	is	generally	associated	with	enhanced	performance	when
exercise	duration	exceeds	90	minutes.	In	shorter	duration	endurance	events	(for
example,	10-kilometre	road	runs,	a	40-kilometre	cycling	time-trial	or	a	2–3-

example,	10-kilometre	road	runs,	a	40-kilometre	cycling	time-trial	or	a	2–3-
kilometre	open	water	swim),	suitable	fuel	stores	in	the	muscle	are	achieved	by	a
combination	of	tapered	exercise	or	rest,	plus	adequate	carbohydrate	intake	(5–10
g	per	kg	body	mass)	over	the	24–36	hours	before	the	event.	For	many	athletes,
this	dietary	prescription	is	already	achieved	in	the	everyday	training	diet,	so	no
extra	effort	or	planning	is	required.	However,	for	some	athletes	(often	women	or
athletes	on	a	weight-reduction	diet)	increasing	total	dietary	energy	and
carbohydrate	above	their	normal	intake	may	be	needed	to	achieve	these	fuelling-
up	goals.
For	longer	duration	events,	such	as	marathon,	70.3	or	ironman	triathlon,
achieving	a	high	carbohydrate	intake	(8–12	g	per	kg	body	mass)	for	24–72	hours
before	an	event	will	require	athletes	to	modify	their	typical	daily	food	and	fluid
intake.	It	is	unlikely	that	an	athlete’s	typical	carbohydrate	intake	will	fall	within
this	range	to	supercompensate	muscle	glycogen	stores.	A	well-structured	and
considered	carbohydrate	loading	plan	will	ensure	an	athlete	increases	their
carbohydrate	intake	while	avoiding	gastrointestinal	issues.	
Box	14.3
	provides
some	common	practice	considerations	for	sports	nutrition	professionals.
Pre-race	meal
A	carbohydrate-rich	meal	or	snack	scheduled	1–4	hours	before	a	race	has	a	role
in	fine-tuning	competition	preparation	by	topping-up	muscle	glycogen	stores	and
restoring	liver	glycogen	stores	(following	an	overnight	fast).	Including	fluid
(~400–600	mL)	with	the	pre-exercise	meal	will	maximise	fluid	retention	and
ensure	the	athlete	is	well-hydrated,	especially	where	a	fluid	deficit	is	likely	to
occur	during	the	event.	The	pre-race	meal	should	be	carbohydrate-focused,
relatively	low	in	fat	and	contain	moderate	amounts	of	protein.	Above	all,	the
pre-race	meal	should	be	familiar	to	the	athlete	to	achieve	gut	comfort	throughout
the	event,	preventing	the	athlete	from	either	becoming	hungry	or	suffering
gastrointestinal	disturbance	or	upset.	Liquid	meal	alternatives	that	contain
carbohydrate	and	protein	provide	an	excellent	option	for	athletes	who	cannot
tolerate	solid	foods	immediately	before	race	start.	Given	the	variety	of	endurance
races,	scheduling	of	events,	food	availability	and	environmental	conditions,
athletes	are	best	advised	to	plan	and	subsequently	rehearse	their	pre-race	meal.
Fine-tuning	may	require	input	from	a	skilled	sports	nutrition	professional	to
avoid	gastrointestinal	upset	and	optimise	the	readiness	to	compete.	
Box	14.4
provides	some	examples	of	carbohydrate-rich	pre-race	meals.

Box	14.3:	Carbohydrate	loading	practice	considerations
•	Athletes	should	be	provided	with	adequate	information	regarding	the
carbohydrate	content	of	foods.	Many	athletes	have	limited	understanding
of	the	carbohydrate	content	of	everyday	foods	and	fluids	or	formulated
supplementary	sports	foods	such	as	carbohydrate	gels,	sports	drinks	and
energy	bars.	Providing	a	carbohydrate	ready	reckoner	will	assist	the
athlete	in	achieving	required	carbohydrate	intakes	(see	the	suggestions	in
Box	14.4
).
•	Low-fibre	foods	should	be	included	within	a	carbohydrate	loading	plan	to
help	maintain	a	normal	fibre	intake	for	the	athlete.
•	When	devising	a	carbohydrate	loading	plan,	it	is	important	to	understand
the	athlete’s	likely	exercise	routine	for	the	final	2–3	days	before
competition.	Additional	training	should	be	considered	in	dietary	planning
to	ensure	adequate	energy	is	available	to	allow	additional	carbohydrate
consumed	to	be	available	for	glycogen	storage	rather	than	used	to	meet
energy	needs.
•	When	formulating	a	carbohydrate	loading	plan,	it	is	important	to	consider
the	likely	glycogen	storage	capacity	of	the	athlete	when	determining	the
subsequent	amount	of	carbohydrate	to	be	consumed.	For	well-trained	elite
athletes	with	a	long	training	history	and	low	body-fat	stores,	higher
amounts	of	carbohydrate	within	the	guidelines	should	be	considered.	For
recreationally	engaged	endurance	athletes	and	those	with	higher	body-fat
levels,	carbohydrate	intake	goals	should	be	modified	to	the	lower	end	of
suggested	intake	range.
•	If	formulating	a	carbohydrate	loading	meal	plan	that	includes
discretionary	foods	such	as	confectionery,	soft	drink	and	sports	drink,	it	is
worthwhile	including	a	disclaimer	such	as:	
The	food	suggestions	and
volumes	specified	in	the	carbohydrate	loading	meal	plan	are	specific	to
carbohydrate	loading	and	should	not	be	misinterpreted	to	reflect
everyday	healthy	eating	habits	or	strategies.	Many	of	the	above
suggestions	are	contrary	to	everyday	healthy	eating	guidelines	and	are
specific	to	pre-race	endurance	competition	nutrition	requirements.
Important	considerations	for	carbohydrate	intake
during	racing

Reported	race-day	carbohydrate	intake	rates	vary	considerably	between	athletes
undertaking	endurance	exercise.	This	is	not	surprising,	as	some	events	or
disciplines	within	a	
multidiscipline	event	provide	better	access	to	and	tolerance
of	the	intake	of	food	and	fluids.	For	example,	Kimber	
et	al.
	(2002)	found	that	73
per	cent	of	the	total	energy	consumed	during	an	ironman	triathlon	was	consumed
during	the	cycle	leg	of	the	race.	One	interesting	finding	from	this	study	was	that
overall	finishing	time	was	inversely	related	to	carbohydrate	intake	during	the	run
for	male	competitors.	Pfeiffer	
et	al.
	(2012),	also	found	that	high	rates	of
carbohydrate	intake	were	usually	observed	in	faster	athletes;	however,	high	rates
of	carbohydrate	intake	are	associated	with	increased	rates	of	gastrointestinal
upset,	such	as	nausea	and	flatulence.	While	there	are	obvious	benefits	to	exercise
performance	of	providing	carbohydrate	during	endurance	sports	(Stellingwerff	&
Cox	2014),	it	is	important	that	carbohydrate	intake	suggestions	are	well	tolerated
by	the	athlete.	Many	athletes	do	not	consume	carbohydrate	routinely	during
training	(Burke	
et	al.
	2003),	which	may	partly	explain	why	they	suffer
gastrointestinal	upset	and	discomfort	when	they	compete	and	ingest
carbohydrate-containing	fluids	and	foods.
Box	14.4:	Examples	of	pre-race	meals
Early	morning	race	start.
	Choices	need	to	be	simple	and	easy	to	prepare
and	consumed	1½–2	hours	before	race	start.	Water	should	be	included	and
varied	according	to	anticipated	fluid	requirements,	environmental
conditions,	other	fluids	contained	within	the	meal	and	the	athlete’s	thirst
level.
•	Cooked	oats	+	low-fat	milk	with	honey,	+	banana	+	glass	of	fruit	juice
•	¾–1½	cups	of	cereal	+	low-fat	milk	+	slice	of	toast	with	savoury	spread	+
milk	coffee
•	Toasted	muffin/s	or	crumpet/s	or	bread	+	jam	or	honey	+	banana	with
400–600	mL	of	sports	drink	+	½–1	sports	bar
•	1–2	pancakes	with	syrup	+	liquid	meal	replacement
•	400–600	mL	of	sports	drink	+	sports	bar
•	Fruit	smoothie	(banana,	low-fat	milk,	yoghurt	and	honey)	or	fruit
smoothie
Late	race	start.
	A	normal	schedule	of	meals	should	be	consumed	before
the	pre-race	meal.	Timing	of	pre-race	meal	can	be	varied	to	suit	athlete
preference	(1–3	hours	pre-race).	Water	should	be	included	and	varied

according	to	anticipated	fluid	requirements,	environmental	conditions,	other
fluids	contained	within	the	meal	and	the	athlete’s	thirst	level.
•	Roll(s)	or	sandwich(es)	+	400–600	mL	of	sports	drink
•	Spaghetti	with	tomato	or	low-fat	sauce	+	glass	of	fruit	juice
•	½–1	cup	of	creamed	rice	+	2	slices	of	toast	with	savoury	spread	and	400–
600	mL	of	sports	drink
Researchers	at	the	Australian	Institute	of	Sport	were	the	first	to	demonstrate
that	athletes	are	able	to	increase	their	use	of	ingested	carbohydrate	during	a
simulated	race	if	they	routinely	consume	carbohydrate	during	daily	training	for
four	weeks	(Cox	
et	al.
	2010).	It	appears	that	athletes	can	train	their	gut	to
increase	absorption	and	subsequent	delivery	of	the	ingested	carbohydrate	to	the
working	muscle.	The	practical	significance	of	this	research	highlights	the
importance	of	‘training	the	way	you	race’.	In	preparation	for	endurance	racing,
athletes	should	rehearse	their	race	carbohydrate	intake	strategies	in	race-like
training	sessions	that	mimic	the	demands	of	competition.
The	amount,	timing,	type,	frequency	of	intake	and	form	of	carbohydrate
should	be	considered	when	advising	endurance	athletes	in	relation	to
carbohydrate	intake	during	training	and	racing	(
Table	14.3
).	In	brief,	in	high-
intensity	endurance	sports	lasting	less	than	45	minutes,	there	appears	to	be	little
benefit	to	consuming	carbohydrate	during	exercise.	While	the	athlete	should
start	exercise	with	normalised	muscle	glycogen	stores,	there	is	little	to	gain	by
consuming	carbohydrate	in	these	brief	endurance	events	or	training	sessions.
However,	consuming	small	amounts	of	carbohydrate–even	rinsing	the	mouth
with	carbohydrate–provides	a	performance	advantage	in	endurance	exercise
lasting	45–75	minutes	(Rollo	&	Williams	2011).	Consuming	carbohydrate	in
these	events	provides	a	central	stimulus,	altering	the	perception	of	effort	and
allowing	for	greater	work	outputs.	The	frequency	of	exposure,	not	the	amount	of
carbohydrate	consumed,	is	central	to	planning	carbohydrate	intake	strategies	for
these	events.
As	the	duration	of	the	endurance	event	extends	beyond	90	minutes,	providing
carbohydrate	during	exercise	will	provide	an	alternate	fuel	for	the	exercising
muscle	while	maintaining	high	rates	of	carbohydrate	oxidation.	Furthermore,
carbohydrate	intake	will	assist	in	maintaining	blood	glucose	levels	within	normal
ranges.	For	extended-duration	endurance	events	there	is	a	dose-response	benefit
to	consuming	carbohydrate	(Smith	
et	al.
	2013).	The	maximal	amount	tolerated
and	available	for	oxidation	will	be	increased	by	consuming	multiple
transportable	carbohydrates	(glucose	and	fructose),	as	they	are	absorbed	across

the	gut	on	different	transporters.	Further,	as	previously	mentioned,	rehearsing
race-day	carbohydrate	intakes,	particularly	high	rates	of	carbohydrate,	will
improve	tolerance.
Table	14.3.	Carbohydrate	intake	recommendations	for	endurance
athletes	during	exercise
Situation
Carbohydrate
targets
Comments	on	type	and
timing	of	carbohydrate
intake
During	brief
exercise
<45	minutes
(e.g.	10	km
track	event)
Not	needed
During
sustained
high-
intensity
training
sessions	or
races
45–75	minutes
(e.g.	half
marathon,	road
cycling	time-
trial)
Small	amounts
including
mouth	rinse
Carbohydrate-containing
drinks,	including	sports
drinks	and	carbohydrate
gels,	provide	practical
options	for	athletes
undertaking	high-intensity
endurance	sports.
During
endurance
events	or
extended
training
sessions
1–2.5	hours
(e.g.	marathon)
30–60	g/h
Most	endurance	events
require	athletes	to
refuel/rehydrate	while
they	are	actually	racing.
The	availability	of	foods
and	fluids	varies	according
to	the	race.	Race
organisers	may	provide
selected	foods	and	fluids
from	feed/aid	stations	on
the	course,	whereas	some
athletes	may	carry	their
own	supplies.
A	range	of	everyday
foods/fluids	and
specialised	sports
supplements,	including
sports	drinks	and	gels,

sports	drinks	and	gels,
provides	convenient,	well-
tolerated	options.
Athletes	should	practice	in
training	to	find	a
refuelling	plan	that	suits
their	individual	goals,
including	hydration	needs
and	gut	comfort.
During
ultra-
endurance
exercise
>2.5–3	hours
(e.g.
ultramarathons,
ironman
triathlons,
cycling	stage
races)
Up	to	90	g/h
As	above.
Higher	intakes	of
carbohydrate	are
associated	with	better
performance.
Specifically	designed
sports	foods	and	fluids
providing	multiple
transportable
carbohydrates
(glucose:fructose
mixtures)	will	achieve
high	rates	of	oxidation	of
carbohydrate	consumed
during	exercise.
Including	a	variety	of
tastes	and	textures	during
longer	or	multi-day
endurance	races	is
important	to	avoid
‘flavour	fatigue’.
Source:	Adapted	from	Burke	
et	al.
	2011.
There	is	a	myriad	of	sports	foods,	fluids	and	everyday	food	items	that	can	be
incorporated	into	a	race-day	plan	for	an	endurance	athlete.	The	combination	of
everyday	food	items	and	specialised	sports	foods	should	be	based	on	the	ease	of
intake	and	the	athlete’s	food	and	fluid	preferences.	
Box	14.5
	provides	various
suggestions	for	race-day	food	and	fluid	intakes.

Box	14.5:	Carbohydrate	food	and	fluid	suggestions	for
endurance	racing
High-intensity	endurance	events	45–75	minutes
•	Small	quantities	(exposures)	of	carbohydrate.
•	Mouth	rinse	or	frequent	intake	of	carbohydrate-containing	drinks	(e.g.
sports	drink)	if	practical	and	tolerated	+	water	as	tolerated.
High-intensity	endurance	events	90–150	minutes
•	Carbohydrate	intake	target	of	30–60	g	of	carbohydrate	per	hour.
•	Water	should	be	consumed	to	alleviate	thirst	in	addition	to	fluids	listed	to
top-up	fluid	intake.
Hourly	suggestions
•	200–300	mL	of	sports	drink	±	sports	gel	(25–30	g	CHO	per	gel)	OR
•	~200–300	mL	of	cola	soft	drink	±	sports	gel	(25–30	g	CHO	per	gel)	OR
•	400–600	mL	of	sports	drink	OR
•	1–2	x	sports	gel	(25–30	g	CHO	per	gel).
Endurance	events	>2½–3	hours
•	Carbohydrate	intake	target	is	up	to	90	g	of	carbohydrate	per	hour.
•	For	ultra-endurance	races	a	variety	of	tastes	(sweet	and	savoury)	should	be
included	to	avoid	flavour	fatigue.
•	The	amount	of	carbohydrate	consumed	should	reflect	the	nature	of	the
event	and	specific	requirements	of	the	athlete.
•	The	combination	of	solid	vs	liquid	forms	of	carbohydrate	should	be
modified	to	reflect	the	intensity	of	exercise	and	the	duration	of	the	event.
•	Intake	of	carbohydrate-containing	fluids	should	be	managed	to	control
hourly	carbohydrate	intake.
•	Water	should	be	consumed	to	alleviate	thirst	in	addition	to	fluids	listed	to
top-up	fluid	intake.

top-up	fluid	intake.
Hourly	carbohydrate	suggestions	for	40–60	g/h
•	300–400	mL	of	sports	drink	+	1	x	sport	gel	(25–30	g	CHO	per	gel)	OR
•	2	x	sport	gels	(25–30	g	CHO	per	gel)	OR
•	400–600	mL	of	sports	drink	+	banana	OR
•	600	mL	of	sports	drink	+	nut	muesli	bar	OR
•	400–500	mL	of	cola	drink
Hourly	carbohydrate	suggestions	for	70–90	g/h
•	600	mL	of	sports	drink	+	2	x	sport	gels	(25–30	g	CHO	per	gel)	OR
•	500–600	mL	of	sports	drink	+	sandwich	(savoury	or	sweet	spread)	OR
•	200	mL	of	sports	gel	concentrate—8	x	sports	gels	(~25	g	CHO	per	gel)
added	to	a	600	mL	drink	bottle	topped	up	with	water	to	600	mL	OR
•	600	mL	of	cola	drink	+	½	sports	bar	(40	g	CHO	per	bar)	OR
•	250	mL	of	liquid	meal	supplement	+	cereal	bar	or	granola	bar	OR
•	400–600	mL	of	sweetened	iced	tea	+	40	g	of	dried	fruit	and	nut	mix	+	½–
1	sandwich	(savoury	spread)	OR
•	300–500	mL	of	sports	drink	+	60	g	chocolate	bar	+	20	g	packet	of	crisps
OR
•	40	g	of	confectionery	or	sports	confectionery	+	2	pikelets	and	jam	+	fun-
size	chocolate	bar.
Source:	Gregory	Cox.
Fluid	intake	considerations	for	endurance	athletes
In	many	endurance	sports,	sweat	losses	are	considerable,	resulting	in	significant
loss	of	fluid	and	dehydration.	This	is	magnified	in	hot,	humid	environments	and
in	sports	where	there	are	practical	barriers	to	drinking	(for	example,	mountain
bike	racing	and	marathon	running).	Earlier	laboratory	studies	consistently
reported	that	the	stress	associated	with	exercise	increased	in	response	to	the	level
of	fluid	deficit.	However,	there	is	some	controversy	regarding	the	effect	of
dehydration	on	endurance	exercise	
performance,	particularly	in	field	settings
(Goulet	2012).	The	point	at	which	the	effects	become	apparent	depend	on	the

individual—their	level	of	training	and	fitness,	their	starting	hydration	status	and
their	acclimation—and	the	environment	(effects	are	greater	in	the	heat	or	at
altitude).
Race	and/or	training	fluid	intake	advice	should	be	individualised	to	ensure
athletes	use	available	opportunities	to	drink	fluids	at	a	rate	that	prevents	thirst
and	keeps	their	accumulating	fluid	deficit	below	two	per	cent	of	body	mass.
Figure	14.1
	provides	an	insight	into	the	complex	nature	of	providing
individualised	fluid	intake	advice.	For	instance,	an	elite	male	triathlete	racing	at
high	speeds	in	a	hot	Olympic-distance	triathlon	should	create	opportunities	to
maximise	fluid	intake	and	take	visual	cues	from	other	athletes	as	a	reminder	to
drink	as	sweat	losses	will	be	high	and	opportunities	to	drink	limited.	Further,	the
speed	of	racing	will	impact	on	tolerance	and	gut	comfort	when	ingesting	fluids.
In	contrast,	a	recreational	female	runner	who	runs/walks	a	marathon	in	cool
weather	can	expect	lower	sweat	rates,	while	having	ample	opportunity	to	slow	or
stop	at	aid	stations.	For	this	athlete,	controlling	her	opportunities,	rather	than
drinking	as	much	as	tolerated,	should	underpin	her	fluid	intake	advice	to
minimise	the	risk	of	over-drinking.	While	not	common,	overzealous	fluid	intake
combined	with	low	sweat	
losses	may	lead	to	the	potentially	fatal	condition	of
hyponatraemia	(low	blood	sodium	concentration,	often	known	as	water
intoxication).	The	development	of	a	race	fluid	intake	plan	can	be	assisted	by
undertaking	fluid	balance	assessments	during	race-like	training	sessions	in
similar	environmental	conditions	so	that	the	athlete	can	gauge	their	typical	sweat
rates	in	comparison	to	their	opportunity/ability	to	rehydrate.

Figure	14.1.	Fluid	intake	advice
Source:	Adapted	from	Burke	&	Cox	2010.
The	most	suitable	drink	choices	and	delivery	methods	will	depend	on	the	sport
and	the	need	to	address	other	nutritional	goals.	Fluids	need	to	be	palatable
(temperature,	taste)	and	available	to	encourage	intake.	Other	characteristics	to
consider	include	the	beverage	temperature,	which	can	be	manipulated	both	to
improve	palatability	in	the	specific	environment	and	to	contribute	to	body
temperature	regulation;	cold	fluids	and	ice	slushies	can	reduce	core	temperature
in	hot	conditions,	while	warm	fluids	may	increase	body	temperature	in	cold
environments.	Many	endurance	events	offer	a	range	of	fluids,	most	commonly,
water,	sports	drink,	cola	soft	drinks	and,	in	extended	races,	warm	broths	or
soups.	Sports	drinks	are	formulated	to	meet	a	range	of	needs	and	simultaneously
provide	fluid,	electrolytes	and	carbohydrate.	Cola	soft	drinks	provide	additional
carbohydrate	and	small	amounts	of	caffeine	which,	when	included	later	in
exercise,	may	provide	a	performance	benefit	(Cox	
et	al.
	2002).	Above	all,
athletes	should	be	familiar	with	the	sports	drink	on	offer	at	the	endurance	event
and/or	plan	to	provide	their	preferred	choice.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	be	familiar	with	the	training	and

After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	be	familiar	with	the	training	and
competition	demands	of	endurance	athletes.	You	should	understand	the
carbohydrate	requirements	associated	with	different	event	durations	and
intensities,	and	be	able	to	tailor	a	nutrition	plan	based	on	these	requirements	with
consideration	of	the	individual	athlete	and	environmental	conditions.
Key	messages
•	In	planning	daily	energy	and	carbohydrate	intakes,	it	is	critical	to	understand
the	daily	training	schedule	and	purpose	of	training	sessions	to	optimise	training
performance,	facilitate	recovery	and	promote	favourable	adaptations	to
training.
•	Well-selected	protein-containing	foods	and	fluids	during	recovery	post-
exercise	will	optimise	recovery	and	promote	gains	in	lean	body	mass.
•	Endurance	athletes	commonly	suffer	from	low	iron	status	and,	as	such,	should
be	carefully	monitored	and	managed.
•	Carbohydrate	loading	offers	particular	advantage	to	endurance	athletes
competing	in	events	longer	than	90	minutes.	Dietary	strategies	should	be
employed	to	achieve	high	carbohydrate	intakes	while	avoiding	high	intakes	of
fibre.
•	The	pre-race	meal	should	be	carbohydrate-focused	and	customised	to	suit	the
athlete	and	race	schedule.	Above	all,	food	and	fluids	should	be	familiar	to	the
athlete.
•	Carbohydrate	intake	for	racing	should	be	scaled	according	to	the	duration	and
intensity	of	the	event.	For	athletes	consuming	high	rates	of	carbohydrate,	race-
day	nutrition	plans	should	be	rehearsed	to	minimise	the	risk	of	gastrointestinal
discomfort	during	the	race.
•	Race-day	carbohydrate	and	fluid	intakes	should	be	adjusted	to	suit	individual
athlete	preferences.	Given	the	variety	of	endurance	events,	sports	nutrition
professionals	should	become	familiar	with	the	practical	challenges	faced	by
athletes	in	meeting	their	race-day	nutrition	goals.
REFERENCES
Bergstrom,	J.,	Hermansen,	L.,	Hultman,	E.	et	al.,	1967,	‘Diet,	muscle	glycogen
and	physical	performance’,	
Acta	Physiologica	Scandinavia,
	vol.	71,	pp.	140–
50.
Burke,	L.M.	&	Cox,	G.R.,	2010,	
The	Complete	Guide	to	Food	for	Sports

Performance.	Peak	Nutrition	for	Your	Sport,
	Crows	Nest,	NSW:	Allen	&
Unwin.
Burke,	L.M.,	Hawley,	J.A.,	Wong,	S.H.	et	al.,	2011,	‘Carbohydrates	for	training
and	competition’,	
Journal	of	Sports	Science,
	vol.	29,	pp.	S17–27.
Burke,	L.M.,	Slater,	G.,	Broad,	E.M.	et	al.,	2003,	‘Eating	patterns	and	meal
frequency	of	elite	Australian	athletes’,	
International	Journal	of	Sport
Nutrition	&	Exercise	Metabolism,
	vol.	13,	no.	4,	pp.	521–38.
Cox,	G.R.,	Clark,	S.A.,	Cox,	A.J.	et	al.,	2010,	‘Daily	training	with	high
carbohydrate	availability	increases	exogenous	carbohydrate	oxidation	during
endurance	cycling’,	
Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
	vol.	109,	no.	1,	pp.	126–
34.
Cox,	G.	R.,	Desbrow,	B.,	Montgomery,	P.	G.	et	al.,	2002,	‘Effect	of	different
protocols	of	caffeine	intake	on	metabolism	and	endurance	performance’,
Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
	vol.	93,	no.	3,	pp.	990–9.
Goulet,	E.D.,	2012,	‘Dehydration	and	endurance	performance	in	competitive
athletes’,	
Nutrition	Reviews,
	vol.	70,	suppl.	2,	pp.	S132–6.
Kimber,	N.E.,	Ross,	J.J.,	Mason,	S.L.	et	al.,	2002,	‘Energy	balance	during	an
ironman	triathlon	in	male	and	female	triathletes’,	
International	Journal	of
Sport	Nutrition	&	Exercise	Metabolism,
	vol.	12,	no.	1,	pp.	47–62.
Pfeiffer,	B.,	Stellingwerff,	T.,	Hodgson,	A.B.	et	al.,	2012,	‘Nutritional	intake	and
gastrointestinal	problems	during	competitive	endurance	events’,	
Medicine	&
Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	44,	no.	2,	pp.	344–51.
Rollo,	I.	&	Williams,	C.,	2011,	‘Effect	of	mouth-rinsing	carbohydrate	solutions
on	endurance	performance’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	41,	no.	6,	pp.	449–61.
Saris,	W.H.,	Van	Erp-Baart,	M.A.,	Brouns,	F.	et	al.,	1989,	‘Study	on	food	intake
and	energy	expenditure	during	extreme	sustained	exercise:	The	Tour	de
France’,	
International	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	10,	suppl.	1,	pp.	S26–
31.
Sherman,	W.M.,	Costill,	D.L.,	Fink,	W.J.	et	al.,	1981,	‘Effect	of	exercise-diet
manipulation	on	muscle	glycogen	and	its	subsequent	utilization	during
performance’,	
International	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	2,	suppl.	2,	pp.
114–8.
Smith,	J.W.,	Pascoe,	D.D.,	Passe,	D.H.	et	al.,	2013,	‘Curvilinear	dose-response
relationship	of	carbohydrate	(0–120	g.h(–1))	and	performance’,	
Medicine	&
Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	45,	no.	2,	pp.	336–41.
Stellingwerff,	T.	&	Cox,	G.R.,	2014,	‘Systematic	review:	Carbohydrate
supplementation	on	exercise	performance	or	capacity	of	varying	durations’,
Applied,	Physiology,	Nutrition	and	Metabolism,
	vol.	39,	no.	9,	pp.	998–1011.
Stepto,	N.K.,	Martin,	D.T.,	Fallon,	K.E.	et	al.,	2001,	‘Metabolic	demands	of

intense	aerobic	interval	training	in	competitive	cyclists’,	
Medicine	&	Science
in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	33,	no.	2,	pp.	303–10.

Strength	and	power	athletes
Gary	Slater	and	Lachlan	Mitchell
The	ability	to	generate	explosive	muscle	power	and	strength	is	critical	to	success
in	crossfit,	Olympic	weightlifting	and	powerlifting,	throwing	events	including
javelin,	discus,	shot	put	and	hammer,	and	100-and	200-metre	sprints	in	track	and
field.	The	athletes	competing	in	these	events	will	typically	incorporate	some
form	of	resistance	exercise	into	their	overall	training	program,	as	well	as	diverse
sport-specific	training.	Given	the	disparity	between	the	sport-specific	training
programs	of	strength	and	power	athletes	and	their	subsequent	metabolic
implications,	this	chapter	will	focus	on	the	nutritional	implications	of	resistance
training	among	strength	and	power	athletes.	The	sport	of	bodybuilding	will	also
be	addressed	given	the	focus	on	resistance	exercise	in	overall	training	program
prescription.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	understand	the	training	nutrition	needs	of	strength	and	power	athletes,

•	understand	the	training	nutrition	needs	of	strength	and	power	athletes,
including	macronutrient	needs	over	the	day
•	identify	appropriate	nutrition	strategies	to	facilitate	recovery
•	appreciate	the	issues	regarding	supplement	use	in	this	population
•	understand	the	competition	demands	of	strength	and	power	athletes	and
translate	that	into	specific	nutrition	guidance
•	appreciate	the	importance	of	physique	traits	among	this	athlete	population	and
how	to	manipulate	these	through	dietary	interventions.
TRAINING	PROGRAMS
Athletics	competitors	participating	in	throwing	events	typically	undertake
periodised	training	programs	(
Chapter	9
)	that	aim	to	develop	maximum	strength
and	power	of	the	major	muscle	groups.	Training	involves	a	range	of	modalities
including	
plyometric	exercises
,	sprinting,	power	lifts,	Olympic	lifts	and
weighted	throwing	drills	to	complement	technical	throwing	training.
Periodisation	of	resistance	training	typically	involves	a	transition	from	high-
volume,	high-force,	low-velocity	movements	requiring	less	coordination
characteristic	of	traditional	powerlifting	to	more	
explosive
,	lower-force,	low-
repetition	training	using	Olympic	lifts	in	preparation	for	competition.	The	focus
on	explosive	Olympic	lifts	over	more	traditional	strength-based	lifting	results	in
more	favourable	power	and	strength	gains,	derived	primarily	from	neural	rather
than	skeletal	muscle	
hypertrophy
	adaptations.	Consequently,	this	style	of
training	enhances	traits	important	to	athletic	development	and	is	common	among
other	explosive	athletics	disciplines	like	sprinting	and	jumping	events,	as	well	as
increasingly	being	incorporated	into	the	training	practices	of	powerlifters.
Plyometric	exercises
Exercises	in	which	muscles	exert	maximum	force	in	short	intervals	of	time,	with	the	goal	of	increasing
power—for	example,	jump	training.
Explosive
Requiring	a	maximum	or	near	maximum	power	output	from	the	athlete	in	a	short	amount	of	time.

Hypertrophy
An	increase	in	skeletal	muscle	size	through	growth	in	size	of	its	cells.
Unlike	other	sports	that	use	resistance	exercise	to	complement	sport-specific
training,	crossfit,	powerlifting,	Olympic	lifting	and	bodybuilding	use	resistance
training	as	a	primary	mode	of	training.	While	Olympic	and	powerlifting	athletes
are	primarily	concerned	with	enhancing	power	and	strength	respectively,
bodybuilding	training	primarily	aims	to	induce	skeletal	muscle	hypertrophy.
Consequently,	the	training	programs	of	bodybuilders	are	unique,	typically	of
greater	volume	than	those	of	other	athletes,	using	higher	repetition	ranges	with
multiple	sets	per	muscle	group	and	little	rest	between	sets.
TRAINING	NUTRITION
Nutrition	plays	an	important	role	in	three	aspects	of	training	for	strength	and
power	athletes:	(1)	fuelling	of	sport-specific	and	strength	training,	(2)	recovery
from	this	
training	and	(3)	the	promotion	of	training	adaptations,	including
skeletal	muscle	hypertrophy.	Resistance	exercise	requires	a	high	rate	of	energy
supply,	derived	from	both	the	phosphagen	energy	systems	and	glycogenolysis
(see	
Chapter	2
)	(Lambert	&	Flynn	2002;	Tesch	
et	al.
	1986),	with	the
contribution	of	each	dependent	upon	the	relative	power	output,	the	work-to-rest
ratio	and	muscle	blood	flow	(Tesch	
et	al.
	1986).	The	source	of	fatigue	during
resistance	exercise	is	likely	multifactorial,	including	neuromuscular	and
peripheral	metabolic	factors	such	as	decline	in	intramuscular	pH	(MacDougall	
et
al.
	1999),	the	latter	somewhat	dependent	on	the	intensity	and	volume	of	training
undertaken	as	well	as	the	time	point	within	a	resistance	training	session.
Metabolic	fatigue	during	the	earlier	part	of	a	workout	may	be	due	at	least	partly
to	reductions	in	phosphagen	energy	system	stores	and	mild	
acidosis
,	while
subsequent	fatigue	may	result	more	from	acidosis	and	impaired	energy
production	from	glycogenolysis	(MacDougall	
et	al.
	1999).
Acidosis
A	process	causing	increased	acidity	in	the	blood	and	other	body	tissue.
Given	the	extreme	muscularity	of	these	individuals	and	the	association

between	muscle	mass	and	total	energy	expenditure,	it	is	not	surprising	that	these
athletes	have	generous	energy	intakes	(Slater	&	Phillips	2011).	However,	when
expressed	relative	to	body	mass	the	energy	intakes	of	strength	and	power
athletes	are	generally	unremarkable	relative	to	those	reported	for	athletes	in	other
sports	but	lower	than	current	strength	athlete	guidelines	of	~185–210
kJ/kgBM/day	(Manore	
et	al.
	2000).	This	likely	reflects	the	fact	that	taller	and/or
more	muscular	individuals	have	lower	resting	and	total	energy	requirements
relative	to	body	mass.	Given	this,	consideration	may	need	to	be	given	to	the
allometric	scaling
	of	traditional	sports	nutrition	guidelines	for	macronutrients
among	larger	athletes,	reflective	of	their	lower	relative	energy	requirements.
Consideration	should	also	be	given	to	distribution	of	nutrient	intake	(Thomas	
et
al.
	2016),	with	limited	information	available	on	daily	distribution	of	energy	and
nutrient	intake,	making	it	difficult	to	infer	compliance	with	guidelines	relating	to
key	periods	of	nutrient	intake,	including	before,	during	and	after	exercise.
Allometric	scaling
Basing	an	individual’s	basal	metabolic	rate	(BMR)	and	hence	requirements	on	their	body	mass.
Carbohydrate
A	single	resistance	training	session	can	result	in	reductions	in	muscle	glycogen
stores	of	as	much	as	40	per	cent	(Tesch	
et	al.
	1986;	MacDougall	
et	al.
	1999),
with	the	amount	of	depletion	depending	on	the	duration,	intensity	and	overall
work	accomplished	during	the	session.	Higher	repetition,	moderate	load	training
characteristic	of	programming	prescribed	to	promote	skeletal	muscle
hypertrophy	results	in	the	greatest	reductions	in	muscle	glycogen	stores.
Reductions	in	muscle	glycogen	stores	has	
been	associated	with	performance
impairment	and,	therefore,	lower	training	capacity,	although	this	effect	is	not
always	evident	and	may	be	dependent	on	the	method	used	to	induce	a	state	of
glycogen	depletion.	Nonetheless,	it	is	possible	that	impaired	training	or
competition	performance	could	occur	in	any	session	or	event	that	relied	on	rapid
and	repeated	glycogen	breakdown.
Given	that	resistance	training	is	merely	one	component	of	the	overall	training
program	of	sprint	and	throwing	event	athletes,	and	that	the	skeletal	muscle
damage	that	accompanies	resistance	training	impairs	muscle	glycogen
resynthesis,	it	would	seem	pertinent	to	encourage	strength	trained	athletes	to

maintain	a	moderate	carbohydrate	intake.	Guidelines	proposing	an	intake	within
the	range	of	6	g/kg	BM/day	for	male	strength	athletes	(Lambert	&	Flynn	2002),
and	possibly	less	for	females	(Volek	
et	al.
	2006),	have	been	advocated.	Lifters
and	throwers	typically	report	carbohydrate	intakes	of	3–5	g/kg	BM/day,	while
bodybuilders	maintain	daily	intakes	equivalent	to	4–7	g/kg	BM/day,	independent
of	gender	(Slater	&	Phillips	2011).	While	this	may	appear	low	relative	to
endurance	athletes,	conclusive	evidence	of	benefit	from	maintaining	a	habitual
high	carbohydrate	intake	among	strength	athletes	remains	to	be	confirmed.
Given	the	lower	relative	energy	expenditure	of	larger	athletes	and	their
requirements	for	other	nutrients,	plus	the	impact	of	adjusting	carbohydrate	on
total	energy	intake,	recommendations	for	carbohydrate	intake	at	strategic	times,
including	before,	during	and	after	exercise,	may	be	more	applicable	to	the
strength	athlete,	ensuring	carbohydrate	availability	is	optimised	at	critical	time
points.	Thus,	we	would	consider	a	range	of	daily	carbohydrate	intakes	of	4–7
g/kg	BM	as	reasonable	for	these	athletes,	depending	on	their	phase	of	training
and	daily	training	loads.
Protein
Strength-trained	athletes	have	advocated	high-protein	diets	for	many	years.
While	debate	continues	on	the	need	for	additional	protein	among	resistance-
trained	individuals,	general	guidelines	now	recommend	athletes	undertaking
strength	training	ingest	approximately	twice	the	current	recommendations	for
protein	of	their	sedentary	counterparts,	or	as	much	as	1.2–2.0	g	protein/kg
BM/day	(Phillips	&	Van	Loon	2011).	Given	the	relatively	wide	distribution	of
protein	in	the	meal	plan	and	increased	energy	intake	of	athletes,	it	should	not	be
surprising	to	learn	that	the	majority	of	strength-trained	athletes	easily	achieve
these	increased	protein	needs	(Slater	&	Phillips	2011).	Exceeding	the	upper
range	of	protein	intake	guidelines	offers	no	further	benefit	as	excess	protein	is
broken	down	and	excreted.	Furthermore,	there	is	evidence	that	an	intense	period
of	resistance	training	reduces	protein	turnover	and	improves	net	protein
retention,	thus	reducing	relative	dietary	protein	requirements	of	experienced
resistance-trained	athletes.
Simply	contrasting	an	athlete’s	current	daily	protein	intake	against	guidelines
does	not	indicate	whether	dietary	intake	has	been	optimised	to	promote	gains	in
muscle	mass	or	enhance	repair	of	damaged	tissues.	Rather,	consideration	should
be	given	to	other	dietary	factors,	including	total	energy	intake,	the	daily
distribution	of	protein	intake	(especially	as	it	relates	to	training),	and	the	source

of	dietary	protein	(Morton	
et	al.
	2015).	While	there	is	very	little	information
available	on	the	eating	patterns	of	strength	athletes,	available	literature	suggests
the	majority	of	daily	protein	intake	is	ingested	at	main	meals	from	an	even	mix
of	animal-and	plant-based	sources,	with	a	skewed	pattern	of	intake	towards	the
evening	meal,	indicating	a	significant	proportion	of	athletes	fail	to	achieve
optimal	protein	intake	at	breakfast	and	lunch.	Thus,	rather	than	focusing	on	total
daily	intake,	athletes	are	encouraged	to	focus	more	on	optimising	protein	quality
and	distribution	throughout	the	day.	Given	muscle	protein	synthesis	becomes
less	efficient	in	response	to	persistently	high	levels	of	amino	acids	in	the	blood,
it	has	been	suggested	4–5	evenly	spaced	feedings	of	~20	g	(0.25	g/kg	BM)	high
biological	value	protein	should	be	recommended	for	strength	athletes	(Phillips	&
Van	Loon	2011).
Fat
The	dietary	fat	intake	of	strength	and	power	athletes	is	generally	greater	than
that	recommended	for	healthy	individuals	and	is	often	derived	from	sources	rich
in	saturated	fat,	presumably	from	an	emphasis	on	animal	foods	in	the	pursuit	of	a
higher	protein	intake.	While	it	is	unclear	what	the	impacts	of	such	dietary
practices	are	on	athletes’	blood	lipid	profiles,	it	may	explain	in	part	the	lower
dietary	carbohydrate	intakes	reported	among	strength	and	power	athletes.	Given
that	replacing	fat	with	
isoenergetic
	amounts	of	carbohydrate	has	a	favourable
effect	on	protein	balance,	it	is	tempting	to	recommend	a	reduction	in	dietary	fat
intake,	especially	for	those	individuals	exceeding	current	guidelines.	However,
consideration	must	be	given	to	the	practical	implications	of	substituting	a	high
energy-density	macronutrient	with	a	lower	energy	macronutrient	and	the	impact
this	may	have	on	energy	balance,	especially	among	strength	and	power	athletes
with	very	high	energy	needs.	Conversely,	there	may	be	situations	in	which	a
higher	intake	of	foods	rich	in	unsaturated	fats	may	be	advocated	for	strength	and
power	athletes	struggling	to	achieve	energy	needs	because	of	an	emphasis	on	the
selection	of	lower	energy-density	foods	in	the	meal	plan.
Isoenergetic
Containing	the	same	number	of	calories/kilojoules.
Pre-exercise	and	during	exercise

Pre-exercise	and	during	exercise
Athletes	are	encouraged	to	pay	particular	attention	to	dietary	intake	in	the	hours
before	exercise,	on	the	assumption	that	pre-exercise	nutritional	strategies	can
influence	
exercise	performance.	While	this	is	a	widely	accepted	practice	prior	to
endurance	exercise	to	enhance	work	capacity,	evidence	is	also	emerging	for	a
beneficial	role	of	carbohydrate	consumed	immediately	prior	to	strength	training.
For	example,	Lambert	at	al.	(1991)	reported	that	supplemental	carbohydrate
ingestion	prior	to	and	during	resistance	exercise	(1	g/kg	before,	0.5	g/kg	during)
increased	total	work	capacity,	a	response	which	has	been	replicated	elsewhere.
However,	not	all	studies	have	shown	a	benefit	from	consuming	carbohydrate
prior	to	exercise;	we	propose	that	the	
ergogenic
	potential	for	carbohydrate
ingestion	is	most	likely	to	be	observed	when	undertaking	longer-duration,	high-
volume	resistance	training.	At	present,	a	specific	recommendation	for	an
optimum	rate	or	timing	of	carbohydrate	ingestion	for	strength	and	power	athletes
before	and	during	any	given	training	session	cannot	be	determined.	Given	the
lower	relative	energy	expenditure	of	resistance	exercise	to	endurance	exercise,
the	lower	range	of	existing	exercise	carbohydrate	intake	guidance	for	endurance
athletes	(for	instance,	1	g/kg	before	and	0.5	g/kg	carbohydrate	during	exercise)
may	be	a	reasonable	proxy	until	more	specific	resistance	training	research	is
undertaken.	As	with	all	athletes,	strength	and	power	athletes	should	be
encouraged	to	initiate	training	in	a	
euhydrated
	state	given	that	even	moderate
hypohydration
	can	impair	resistance-training	work	capacity.
Ergogenic
Enhancing	physical	performance.
Euhydrated
Normal	state	of	body	water	content.
Hypohydration
Dehydration	of	the	body.
Recently,	there	has	been	interest	in	combining	carbohydrate	and	essential
amino	acids	both	before	and	during	resistance	exercise,	presumably	to	increase

amino	acids	both	before	and	during	resistance	exercise,	presumably	to	increase
substrate	availability	and	thus	exercise	performance,	to	promote	a	more	anabolic
(muscle-building)	hormonal	environment,	to	stimulate	muscle	protein	synthesis
and	to	reduce	muscle	damage	and	soreness.	Initial	research	found	that	greater
muscle	protein	synthesis	occurred	when	nutritional	support	was	provided	before
rather	than	after	resistance	exercise,	but	this	has	not	been	replicated	elsewhere.
Consequently,	current	guidelines	recommend	that	protein	be	consumed	after
exercise	because	this	is	when	there	is	maximal	stimulation	of	muscle	protein
synthesis.
Recovery
Given	that	resistance	training	typically	forms	only	one	component	of	an	athlete’s
training	schedule,	recovery	strategies	proven	to	enhance	restoration	of	muscle
glycogen	stores,	such	as	eating	carbohydrate	after	exercise,	should	be	routinely
implemented	following	resistance	training.	General	sports	nutrition	guidelines
advocate	carbohydrate	should	be	consumed	at	a	rate	of	1.0–1.2	g/kg	BM
immediately	after	exercise.	However,	this	has	no	influence	on	muscle	protein
metabolism.	In	contrast,	consuming	protein	after	exercise	results	in	an
exacerbated	elevation	in	muscle	protein	synthesis	
at	the	same	time	as	a	minor
suppression	in	muscle	protein	breakdown,	resulting	in	a	positive	net	protein
balance.	The	ingestion	of	approximately	20	grams	(0.25	g/kg	BM)	of	high
biological-value	protein	after	resistance	exercise	appears	to	be	sufficient	to
maximally	stimulate	muscle	protein	synthesis,	with	higher	doses	recommended
following	resistance-training	sessions	engaging	the	whole	body	and	among
elderly	or	injured	athletes.	So,	eating	both	carbohydrate	and	protein	immediately
after	resistance	training	results	in	more	favourable	recovery	outcomes,	including
restoration	of	muscle	glycogen	stores	and	muscle	protein	metabolism,	than
consuming	either	nutrient	alone.	Eating	protein	after	exercise	also	reduces	the
amount	of	carbohydrate	required	in	the	acute	recovery	period,	with	an	energy-
matched	intake	of	0.8	g/kg	BM/hour	carbohydrate	plus	0.4	g/kg	BM/hour
protein	resulting	in	similar	muscle	glycogen	resynthesis	over	five	hours
compared	to	1.2	g/kg	BM/hour	carbohydrate	alone	following	intermittent
exercise,	with	a	similar	response	evident	following	resistance	exercise.
Preliminary	evidence	also	suggests	that	consuming	both	carbohydrate	and
protein	after	exercise	may	reduce	muscle	damage	often	seen	in	strength-trained
athletes;	whether	such	a	change	has	a	functional	benefit	is	unclear.
Supplementation	practices

Supplementation	practices
Supplement	use	is	reported	to	be	higher	among	athletes	than	their	sedentary
counterparts,	with	particularly	high	rates	of	supplement	use	among	weightlifters
and	bodybuilders.	The	high	prevalence	of	supplement	use	among	bodybuilders,
Olympic	weightlifters,	track	and	field	athletes,	and	those	who	frequent
commercial	fitness	centres	is	not	unexpected,	given	the	range	of	products
targeted	at	this	market.	While	multivitamin	and	mineral	supplements	are	very
popular	among	all	athletes,	other	products	such	as	protein	powders	and	specific
amino	acid	supplements,	caffeine	and	creatine	monohydrate	are	also	frequently
used	by	strength-trained	athletes.
Recognising	the	nutritional	value	of	food	sources	of	protein	and	essential
amino	acids,	creatine	monohydrate	appears	to	be	the	only	supplement	that	has
been	reported	to	enhance	skeletal	muscle	hypertrophy	and	functional	capacity	in
response	to	resistance	training.	However,	liquid	meal	supplements	rich	in
carbohydrate	and	protein	may	be	valuable	in	the	post-exercise	period	to	boost
total	energy	and	specific	nutrient	intake	at	a	time	when	the	appetite	is	often
suppressed.	There	is	also	evidence	that	caffeine	enhances	muscular	strength.
While	other	dietary	supplements	such	as	individual	amino	acids	and	their
metabolites	have	been	advocated	for	use	among	bodybuilders,	research
supporting	their	ergogenic	potential	is	limited,	and	thus	cannot	currently	be
recommended	based	on	available	preliminary	literature.
Strength-trained	athletes	continue	to	seek	supplement	information	from
readily	accessible	sources,	including	websites,	social	media,	magazines,	fellow
athletes	and	coaches.	
The	accuracy	of	such	information	may	vary	(see	the
Introduction	for	more	details),	leaving	the	athlete	vulnerable	to	inappropriate
and/or	ineffective	supplementation	protocols	and	an	increased	risk	of	inadvertent
doping.	The	presence	of	muscle	dysmorphia,	a	body	dysmorphic	disorder
characterised	by	a	pre-occupation	with	a	sense	of	inadequate	muscularity
common	among	bodybuilders,	may	also	influence	supplementation	practices	and
lead	to	
anabolic	steroid
	use.
Anabolic	steroids
Drugs	which	help	the	repair	and	build	of	muscle	tissues,	derived	from	the	male	hormone	testosterone.
COMPETITION

Competition	demands	of	strength	sports	are	typically	characterised	by	explosive
single	efforts	where	athletes	are	given	a	designated	number	of	opportunities	to
produce	a	maximal	performance,	with	significant	recovery	between	each	effort.
This	recovery	time	means	that	muscle	energy	reserves	are	unlikely	to	be
challenged,	even	in	the	face	of	challenging	environmental	conditions	of
competitions	like	the	summer	Olympic	Games.	Consequently,	nutrition	priorities
should	focus	on	more	general	goals	like	optimising	gastrointestinal	tract	comfort
and	preventing	weight	gain	during	the	competition	taper.
Olympic	weightlifting,	powerlifting	and	bodybuilding	are	unique	among
strength	and	power	sports	in	that	competition	is	undertaken	via	weight	categories
or,	on	occasion	in	bodybuilding,	by	height	class.	As	such,	these	athletes	are
likely	to	engage	in	acute	weight-loss	practices	common	to	other	weight	category
sports	including	short-term	restriction	of	food	and	fluids,	resulting	in	a	state	of
glycogen	depletion	and	hypohydration.	While	performance	is	typically
compromised	in	sports	requiring	a	significant	contribution	from	aerobic	and/or
anaerobic	energy	metabolism	(
Chapter	2
),	activities	demanding	high	power
output	and	absolute	strength	are	less	likely	to	be	influenced	by	acute	weight	loss.
Furthermore,	the	weigh-in	is	typically	undertaken	two	hours	prior	to	the
commencement	of	weightlifting	competition,	affording	athletes	an	opportunity
to	recover,	at	least	partially,	from	any	acute	weight-loss	strategies	undertaken
prior	to	the	weigh-in.	The	body	mass	management	guidelines	for	Olympic
combat	sport	athletes	(Reale	
et	al.
	2017)	would	also	appear	applicable	for
Olympic	weightlifters.
Given	the	association	between	lower	body-fat	levels	and	competitive	success,
bodybuilders	typically	adjust	their	training	and	diet	several	months	out	from
competition	in	an	attempt	to	decrease	body	fat	while	maintaining	or	increasing
muscle	mass.	While	a	compromise	in	muscle	mass	has	been	observed	when
attempting	to	achieve	the	extremely	low	body-fat	levels	desired	for	competition,
this	is	not	always	the	case.	The	performance	implications	of	any	skeletal	muscle
loss	are	unknown	given	the	subjective	nature	of	bodybuilding	competition.
Among	female	bodybuilders	such	dietary	restrictions	are	often	associated	with
compromised	micronutrient	intake	and	menstrual	
dysfunction,	presumably
because	energy	availability	falls	below	the	threshold	of	~125	kJ/kg	fat-free
mass/day	required	to	maintain	normal	endocrine	(hormonal)	regulation	of	the
menstrual	cycle	(refer	to	
Chapter	18
	for	more	information).
If	muscle	protein	breakdown	is	experienced	by	an	Olympic	weightlifter	or
powerlifter	as	they	attempt	to	‘make	weight’	for	competition,	a	compromise	in
force-generating	capacity,	and	thus	weightlifting	performance,	is	at	least
theoretically	possible.	More	details	on	weight	category	sports	and	weight-

making	can	be	found	in	
Chapter	17
.
PHYSIQUE
Within	the	lifting	events,	physique	traits	influence	performance	in	several	ways.
While	the	expression	of	strength	has	a	significant	
neural
	component,	lifting
performance	is	closely	associated	with	skeletal	muscle	mass.	Excluding	the	open
weight	category,	weightlifters	also	tend	to	have	low	body-fat	levels,	enhancing
development	of	strength	per	unit	of	body	mass.	Successful	weightlifters	also
have	a	higher	sitting	height-to-stature	ratio	with	shorter	limbs,	creating	a
biomechanical	advantage.	An	association	between	physique	traits	and
competitive	success	in	the	Olympic	throwing	events	has	been	recognised	for
some	time,	with	successful	athletes	heavier	and	taller	than	their	counterparts	and
growing	in	size	at	a	rate	well	in	excess	of	general	population	trends.	In	contrast
to	other	strength	sports,	bodybuilding	is	unique	in	that	competitive	success	is
judged	purely	on	the	basis	of	the	size,	symmetry	and	definition	of	musculature.
Not	surprisingly,	bodybuilders	are	the	most	muscular	of	all	the	strength	athletes.
Successful	bodybuilders	have	lower	body	fat,	yet	are	taller	and	heavier	with
wider	skeletal	proportions,	and	are	much	broader	across	the	shoulders	than	the
hips.
Neural
Relating	to	a	nerve	or	the	nervous	system.
While	it	is	reasonable	to	presume	that	the	nutritional	focus	of	strength	and
power	athletes	remains	on	skeletal	muscle	hypertrophy	throughout	the	year,	in
reality	this	is	rarely	the	case,	except	perhaps	during	the	‘off-season’	for
bodybuilders	or	specified	times	of	the	annual	
macrocycle
	of	other	strength	and
power	athletes.	Furthermore,	significant	changes	in	body	mass	among
bodybuilders,	Olympic	weightlifters	and	powerlifters	will	likely	influence	the
weight	category	they	compete	in	and	those	they	compete	against.	Thus,	the
intention	to	promote	skeletal	muscle	hypertrophy	must	be	given	serious
consideration	by	athletes	and	their	coaches	before	being	implemented.
Macrocycle

Refers	to	the	overall	training	period,	usually	representing	a	year.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	have	a	broad	understanding	of	the
important	role	nutrition	plays	for	athletes	competing	in	sports	where	the
expression	of	explosive	
power	and	strength	are	critical	to	competitive	success.
While	total	energy	intake	of	strength	and	power	athletes	tends	to	be	greater	than
endurance-focused	athletes,	intake	relative	to	body	mass	is	often	unremarkable,
with	less	known	about	distribution	of	nutrient	intake	over	the	day.	Strength	and
power	athletes	will	benefit	from	a	greater	focus	on	the	strategic	timing	of
nutrient	intake	before,	during	and	after	exercise	to	assist	them	in	optimising
resistance-training	work	capacity,	recovery	and	body	composition.	Strength	and
power	athletes	create	unique	challenges	for	the	nutrition	service	provider	given
their	reliance	on	readily-accessible	sources	of	information,	susceptibility	to
sports	supplement	marketing,	potentially	distorted	body	image	and	challenges
associated	with	achieving	a	specified	weight	category	in	some	sports	plus	the
general	void	of	scientific	investigation	in	recent	years	relating	specifically	to	this
unique	group	of	athletes.
Key	messages
•	Strength	and	power	athletes	tend	to	consume	more	total	energy,	but	less	energy
relative	to	their	body	mass,	than	endurance-focused	athletes.
•	Strategic	timing	of	nutrient	intake	before,	during	and	after	exercise	will	help	to
optimise	training	work	capacity,	recovery	and	body	composition.
•	Strength	and	power	athletes	are	recommended	to	consume	daily	carbohydrate
intakes	of	4–7	g/kg	body	mass,	and	daily	protein	intakes	between	1.0	and	1.2
g/kg	body	mass	in	the	form	of	4–5	evenly	spaced	feedings	of	~20	grams	(0.25
g/kg	body	mass)	high	biological-value	protein.
•	Athletes	should	consume	carbohydrate	at	a	rate	of	1	g/kg	before	and	0.5	g/kg
during	training,	and	focus	their	protein	intake	after	training	during	maximal
stimulation	of	muscle	protein	synthesis.
•	Recovery	should	include	consumption	of	20	grams	of	protein	(0.25	g/kg	body
mass)	to	stimulate	muscle	protein	synthesis,	and	0.8	g/kg	BM/hour
carbohydrate	plus	0.4	g/kg	BM/hour	protein	to	promote	glycogen	repletion.
•	Athletes’	dietary	practices	may	be	influenced	by	inaccurate	nutrition
information,	sports	supplement	marketing	and	distorted	body	image.

REFERENCES
Lambert,	C.P.	&	Flynn,	M.G.,	2002,	‘Fatigue	during	high-intensity	intermittent
exercise:	Application	to	bodybuilding’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	32,	no.	8,	pp.
511–22.
Lambert,	C.P.,	Flynn,	M.G.,	Boone,	J.B.J.	et	al.,	1991,	‘Effects	of	carbohydrate
feeding	on	multiple-bout	resistance	exercise’,	
Journal	of	Strength	and
Conditioning	Research,
	vol.	5,	no.	4,	pp.	192–7.
MacDougall,	J.D.,	Ray,	S.,	Sale,	D.G.	et	al.,	1999,	‘Muscle	substrate	utilization
and	lactate	production	during	weightlifting’,	
Canadian	Journal	of	Applied
Physiology-Revue	Canadienne	De	Physiologie	Appliquee,
	vol.	24,	no.	3,	pp.
209–15.
Manore,	M.M.,	Barr,	S.I.	&	Butterfield,	G.E.,	2000,	‘Joint	Position	Statement:
Nutrition	and	Athletic	performance.	American	College	of	Sports	Medicine,
American	Dietetic	Association,	and	Dietitians	of	Canada’,	
Medicine	&
Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	32,	no.	12,	pp.	2130–45.
Morton,	R.W.,	McGlory,	C.	&	Phillips,	S.M.,	2015,	‘Nutritional	interventions	to
augment	resistance	training-induced	skeletal	muscle	hypertrophy’,	
Frontiers
in	Physiology,
	vol.	6,	pp.	245.
Phillips,	S.M.	&	Van	Loon,	L.J.,	2011,	‘Dietary	protein	for	athletes:	From
requirements	to	optimum	adaptation’,	
Journal	of	Sports	Science,
	vol.	29,
suppl.	1,	pp.	S29–38.
Reale,	R.,	Slater,	G.	&	Burke,	L.M.,	2017,	‘Individualised	dietary	strategies	for
Olympic	combat	sports:	Acute	weight	loss,	recovery	and	competition
nutrition’,	
European	Journal	of	Sport	Science,
	vol.	17,	no.	6,	pp.	727–40.
Slater,	G.	&	Phillips,	S.M.,	2011,	‘Nutrition	guidelines	for	strength	sports:
Sprinting,	weightlifting,	throwing	events,	and	bodybuilding’,	
Journal	of
Sports	Science,
	vol.	29,	suppl.	1,	pp.	S67–7.
Tesch,	P.A.,	Colliander,	E.B.	&	Kaiser,	P.,	1986,	‘Muscle	metabolism	during
intense,	heavy-resistance	exercise’,	
European	Journal	of	Applied	Physiology
&	Occupational	Physiology,
	vol.	55,	no.	4,	pp.	362–6.
Thomas,	D.T.,	Erdman,	K.A.	&	Burke,	L.M.,	2016,	‘Position	of	the	Academy	of
Nutrition	and	Dietetics,	Dietitians	of	Canada,	and	the	American	College	of
Sports	Medicine:	Nutrition	and	Athletic	Performance’,	
Journal	of	the
Academy	of	Nutrition	&	Dietetics,
	vol.	116,	no.	3,	pp.	501–28.
Volek,	J.S.,	Forsythe,	C.E.	&	Kraemer,	W.J.,	2006,	‘Nutritional	aspects	of
women	strength	athletes’,	
British	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	40,	no.	9,
pp.	742–8.

Team	sport	athletes
Stephen	J.	Keenan	and	Brooke	Devlin
Team	sports	are	popular	at	a	variety	of	levels,	ranging	from	amateur	social
competitions	for	health	and	fitness	to	Olympic,	national	and	international	elite
competitions.	The	physical	demands	of	team	sports	are	multifaceted	and,	as
such,	a	thorough	understanding	of	the	physiological	demands,	duration	and
intensity	of	each	team	sport	is	required	in	order	to	ensure	appropriate	nutrition
strategies	are	in	place.	Furthermore,	team	sports	present	unique	challenges	with
regards	to	nutrition.	In	the	first	section,	this	chapter	will	discuss	why	it	is
important	to	consider	the	differences	between	team	sport	athletes	and	individual
athletes,	and	the	importance	of	individualised	nutrition	advice	in	a	team	setting.
The	second	section	will	focus	on	how	the	structure	and	characteristics	of
competition	and	the	demands	of	travel	influence	and	impact	on	nutrition
strategies	and	practices.	Finally,	the	chapter	will	conclude	with	discussion	of
food	service	provision	for	team	sport	athletes,	why	this	is	important	and	some	of
the	issues	nutrition	professionals	need	to	consider	when	catering	to	large	groups.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES

LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will:
•	have	an	understanding	of	the	differences	between	team	sport	athletes	and
individual	athletes	and	the	importance	of	pack	mentality	in	team	sports
•	understand	the	importance	of	individualised	nutrition	advice	and	why	blanket
style	nutrition	recommendations	are	not	advised
•	recognise	the	challenges	nutrition	professionals	need	to	overcome	when
working	with	team	sport	athletes
•	understand	that	each	sport	presents	unique	nutritional	challenges	related	to	the
game	and	competition	structure
•	develop	an	understanding	of	food	service	provision	and	catering	for	team	sport
athletes.
WHAT	IS	DIFFERENT	ABOUT	TEAM	SPORT
ATHLETES?
Popular	team	sports	for	men	and	women	in	Australia,	New	Zealand	and	the
Asia-Pacific	region	include	basketball,	netball,	cricket,	volleyball,	rugby	league,
rugby	union,	hockey,	soccer	(football)	and	Australian	football.	These	sports
differ	in	their	competitive	seasons,	game	lengths,	skill	requirements	and
movement	patterns	performed	during	play.	Additionally,	the	time	of	year	each
sport	is	played	differs,	with	some	being	summer	sports	(such	as	cricket)	and
others	winter	sports	(such	as	Australian	football).	All	these	factors	need	to	be
taken	into	consideration	when	preparing	nutrition	recommendations.
Additionally,	a	thorough	understanding	of	the	physiological	demands	of	the
sport	is	required	to	ensure	appropriate	nutrition	strategies	are	in	place	and	fuel
requirements	are	met.
As	with	individual	athletes,	the	nutritional	requirements	of	team	sport	athletes
depend	on	the	physiological	demands,	predominant	energy	systems,	duration,
frequency	and	intensity	of	the	sport.	Within	a	team	sport,	there	are	a	number	of
different	positions	that	athletes	can	play	(such	as	offensive	or	defensive).	The
position	an	athlete	plays	also	influences	their	nutritional	requirements.	For
example,	in	a	sport	such	as	soccer,	the	nutrition	requirements	of	the	goal	keeper
will	be	very	different	to	a	position	such	as	a	mid-fielder	due	to	differences	in	the
distance,	frequency	and	intensity	of	running	movements.
Unlike	many	individual	sports	and	events,	in	team	sports	athletes	are	often
required	to	repeat	regular	short,	high-intensity	efforts	interspersed	with	longer

periods	of	rest	and	low-to	moderate-intensity	efforts,	such	as	jogging	and
walking.	Therefore,	team	sports	are	typically	both	anaerobic	and	aerobic
(
Chapter	2
)	in	nature	and,	consequently,	athletes	are	required	to	develop	not	only
speed,	agility,	muscular	strength	and	power	but	also	endurance	(Bradley	
et	al.
2013).	Furthermore,	technical	and	tactical	elements	are	incorporated	into	the
games,	with	the	specific	skill	required	dependent	on	the	game	and	position
played.
While	sports	nutrition	principles	and	practices	will	be	similar	between
individual	athletes	and	team	sport	athletes,	there	are	additional	factors	and	issues
that	are	
important	to	consider	regarding	nutrition	practices	of	team	sport	athletes.
These	issues	are	discussed	throughout	this	chapter.
Pack	mentality
Depending	on	the	sport,	the	number	of	athletes	in	a	team	can	vary	from	five	up
to	groups	as	large	as	50.	Regardless	of	the	size	of	the	team,	group	dynamics	can
have	a	major	influence	on	nutrition	practices	of	athletes.
Pack	mentality
For	team	sport	athletes,	a	pack	mentality	occurs	when	individual	athletes	within	the	team	act	in	a	similar
manner	to	others	in	the	group.
In	team	sport,	it	is	common	for	there	to	be	a	‘
pack	mentality
’	that	influences
athletes’	behaviours,	including	their	nutrition	practices.	In	the	case	of	nutritional
intake,	if	there	are	some	athletes	within	the	team	who	follow	suboptimal
practices	or	have	extreme	dietary	behaviour,	this	can	influence	the	overall
nutrition	practices	of	the	whole	team.
While	pack	mentality	may	be	seen	to	negatively	influence	nutritional	intake	in
some	cases,	it	is	important	to	consider	using	the	team	environment	and	pack
mentality	to	assist	in	improving	the	nutrition	practices	of	the	athletes	and	making
positive	changes	to	the	nutritional	intake	of	the	team.	As	with	any	team
environment,	there	will	be	natural	tendencies	for	some	individuals	to	be	leaders
and	have	stronger	personalities.	Working	with	leaders	in	a	team	environment
who	follow	optimal	nutrition	practices	is	an	effective	strategy	to	influence	the
nutrition	practices	of	athletes	in	a	team	and	improve	the	culture.	As	an	example,
alcohol	intake	following	a	game	is	quite	common	due	to	the	social	nature	of
team	sports.	However,	when	a	key	team	member	limits	their	alcohol

team	sports.	However,	when	a	key	team	member	limits	their	alcohol
consumption,	it	can	positively	influence	the	overall	alcohol	intake	of	the	team.
To	improve	and	influence	nutritional	intake	of	athletes	in	team	sports	it	is	vital	to
consider	the	team	environment,	culture	and	natural	tendency	for	a	pack	mentality
to	occur.
Blanket	approaches	to	nutrition	advice
High-level	competitive	team	sports	have	a	large	team	of	coaching	and	support
staff,	such	as	sports	scientists,	working	with	athletes.	There	are	a	range	of	factors
that	influence	the	performance	of	an	athlete,	and	coaching	and	support	staff
work	to	improve	these	factors,	including	fitness,	strength	and	game	tactics.
Despite	its	ability	to	influence	performance,	nutrition	is	not	always	a	priority
among	coaching	and	support	staff	due	to	budget	constraints	and	competing
pressures.
In	these	high-pressure	and	simultaneously	time-and	resource-poor
environments,	it	is	common	for	blanket	nutrition	advice	to	be	provided	to	a	team
of	athletes.	Blanket	nutrition	advice	can	be	described	as	nutrition	advice	that	is
the	same	for	all	the	athletes,	regardless	of	their	individual	differences.
Furthermore,	the	way	in	which	
this	advice	is	delivered	is	also	the	same	for	all
athletes.	It	groups	all	athletes	together	(under	one	blanket),	and	assumes	the
information	and	nutrition	advice	they	need	is	the	same.	This	is	problematic,	as	it
is	well	established	that	individual	athletes	within	a	team	are	unique	and	will
respond	differently	to	nutrition	interventions	and	advice.	For	example,	caffeine
has	been	found	to	improve	athletic	performance	(Burke	2008),	but	not	all
athletes	respond	to	caffeine	in	the	same	way.	The	performance	benefit	of
caffeine	is	substantial	for	some	athletes,	insignificant	for	others.	Athletes	will
also	vary	in	their	tolerance	of	caffeine-containing	beverages	and	supplements.
Therefore,	athletes	require	specific,	individually	tailored,	
personalised	nutrition
advice
	that	takes	into	consideration	a	range	of	individual	health,	social	and
sport-specific	factors
.
Personalised	nutrition	advice
Specific	and	individualised	advice	for	each	athlete	based	on	their	own	personal	situation	including
playing	position,	body	composition,	culture,	taste	preferences	and	past	experiences.
GROUP	NUTRITION	EDUCATION	AND

GROUP	NUTRITION	EDUCATION	AND
NUTRITION	KNOWLEDGE
As	outlined,	it	is	important	that	athletes	are	provided	individual	nutrition	advice
as	far	as	possible	within	the	context	of	the	team	setting.	However,	it	is	common
for	team	sport	athletes	to	receive	group	nutrition	education.	Group	nutrition
education	sessions	are	advantageous	as	a	time-and	cost-effective	method	to
educate	and	influence	nutritional	practices.	They	can	also	assist	in	building	a
positive	team	environment	and	culture.	However,	education	provided	in	a	group
setting	often	employs	‘blanket’	nutrition	advice	and	does	not	cater	for	the
differing	needs	of	individual	athletes.	Athletes	will	also	have	different	learning
styles,	and	these	should	be	taken	into	consideration	when	planning	group
nutrition	education	sessions.
Group	nutrition	education	sessions	are	used	to	improve	nutrition	knowledge,
and	sometimes	also	food	and	cooking	skills,	with	the	aim	of	positively
influencing	nutrition	practices.	In	team	sports,	group	nutrition	education	sessions
and	cooking	classes	are	commonly	used	to	educate	a	number	of	athletes	at	one
time.	Evaluation	of	such	sessions	is	important	to	identify	their	effectiveness	in
improving	nutrition	knowledge,	food	skills	and	dietary	practices,	to	identify
areas	for	improvement	and	to	advocate	for	increased	nutrition	services.
FOOD	AND	FLUID	PROVISION	FOR	TEAM
SPORTS
The	implementation	of	nutrition	strategies	in	team	sports	is	often	subject	to	rules
and	regulations	that	restrict	opportunities	for	intake	of	food	and	fluids.	While
sports	such	as	basketball	or	Australian	football	include	numerous	breaks	in	play
that	allow	delivery	of	food	or	fluids	to	players,	opportunities	in	other	codes,	such
as	soccer	(football),	are	much	more	limited.	Often	substitutions,	treatment	of
injured	players	and	half-time	
breaks	are	the	only	times	players	can	access	food
and	fluid,	and	to	do	this	they	may	need	to	dash	to	the	sidelines.	This	can	pose
challenges	when	trying	to	replace	large	fluid	losses	or	provide	large	quantities	of
carbohydrate;	providing	these	in	large	
boluses
	at	half-time	breaks	may	lead	to
gastrointestinal	disturbance.	Studies	that	have	informed	fluid	and	carbohydrate
intake	guidelines	have	often	used	protocols	that	involve	providing	small	amounts
periodically,	which	is	impractical	in	team	sports.	Therefore,	nutrition	support
needs	to	be	customised	to	both	the	sport	and	the	individual.

Bolus
A	portion,	with	respect	to	food,	that	is	swallowed	at	one	time.
Competition	structure	and	access	to	food/fluid	during
the	game
The	structure	of	competition	varies	between	sports	and	can	create	difficulties
when	trying	to	optimise	fluid	and	food	ingestion.	Depending	on	the	intensity	and
duration	of	the	event,	and	the	environment	in	which	it	is	played,	a	greater
emphasis	may	need	to	be	placed	on	ensuring	athletes	take	every	opportunity	to
rehydrate	or	ingest	carbohydrates.	Cricket,	for	example,	may	be	played	in
extreme	heat,	with	some	formats	of	the	game	lasting	6–7	hours	per	day	for	five
days.	Although	originally	developed	in	temperate	English	weather,	it	is	now	also
played	in	the	harsh	Australian	summer,	the	severe	heat	of	Dubai	and	the	extreme
humidity	in	India,	with	temperatures	occasionally	reaching	over	40°C.	While
those	in	the	outfield	may	have	access	to	drinks	on	the	boundary	line,	batsmen—
who	are	generally	also	wearing	heavy	pads,	gloves	and	a	helmet—may	have
much	more	limited	access	to	fluids,	with	drinks	breaks	generally	scheduled	only
once	per	hour	(though	they	break	for	meals	over	the	course	of	the	day).	In
Australia,	soccer	is	also	played	in	the	summer,	with	drinks	generally	only
available	at	the	break	between	45-minute	halves	or	if	there	is	an	extended
stoppage	in	play.	In	circumstances	such	as	these,	it	is	important	to	think
strategically	about	providing	athletes	with	optimal	nourishment.	In	cricket,	for
example,	if	there	is	a	break	in	play	for	injury,	to	change	the	ball	or	if	the	batsman
calls	for	a	new	bat	or	gloves,	a	drinks	runner	should	be	sent	out	to	the	players	at
the	same	time	if	possible.	In	soccer,	placing	drink	bottles	around	the	ground,
allowing	players	to	access	fluids	quickly	during	stoppages	or	substitutions,	will
allow	them	to	maintain	a	better	hydration	status.	For	events	lasting	90	minutes	or
more,	it	is	important	to	provide	fluids	such	as	sports	drinks	that	contain
carbohydrate	and	electrolytes,	with	added	flavours	to	promote	greater	intake	(see
Chapter	11
	for	more	information	on	hydration).
Although	it	is	important	to	ensure	that	opportunities	are	created	for	athletes	to
ingest	food	and	fluid	during	play	where	possible,	the	importance	of	designated
breaks	should	not	be	ignored.	Sports	drinks,	along	with	any	food	or	supplements
such	as	fruit,	gels	or	lollies,	should	be	presented	in	a	way	that	allows	easy	access
for	the	athletes.	Often	the	athletes	will	have	treatment	or	presentations	from	the

coaching	staff	during	their	
designated	breaks,	and	eating	and	drinking	may	slip
their	mind.	Setting	up	their	food	and	drinks	on	a	table	just	inside	the	door	to	the
change	rooms	may	help	ensure	they	grab	something	on	the	way	in	and	way	out,
reducing	the	risk	of	missing	an	opportunity	to	refuel.	For	those	who	have	more
individualised	refuelling	strategies,	placing	the	appropriate	amount	of	food	and
drink	in,	or	in	front	of,	their	locker	may	allow	them	to	adhere	to	this	more	easily.
While	structured	breaks	such	as	half-time	allow	greater	opportunity	for	food	and
fluid	intake,	it	should	also	be	stressed	that	trying	to	achieve	recommended
intakes	needs	to	be	balanced	with	gastrointestinal	comfort,	and	force-feeding
athletes	may	actually	lead	to	poorer	performance.
Catering	for	the	team
Catering	for	athletes	in	the	team	environment	may	occur	on	many	different
levels,	from	individual	to	team-wide	provision	of	food,	both	of	which	provide
unique	challenges.	Training	and	competition	schedules,	personal	preferences	and
body	composition	goals	can	all	influence	the	type	and	amount	of	food	provided.
Addressing	all	of	these	concerns	at	once	can	be	difficult,	and	while	ideally	clubs
could	utilise	in-house	catering	staff	to	accommodate	each	player’s	different
requirements	(as	is	the	case	in	some	larger	organisations	around	the	world),
smaller	clubs	may	need	to	bring	in	outside	catering	to	ensure	adherence	to
budget.
On-site,	team-wide	catering	offers	a	cost-efficient	method	of	providing
nutritious	food	to	athletes.	This	can	be	particularly	important	when	the	training
schedule	runs	over	normal	meal	times.	It	is	not	uncommon	for	players	to
complete	two	training	sessions	each	day,	especially	over	the	pre-season	period,
and	this	may	involve	long	days	with	limited	opportunities	to	seek	food.
Providing	a	meal	can	help	ensure	that	players	refuel	to	train	and	compete	at
the	intensity	required;	however,	it	is	not	as	simple	as	providing	sufficient
carbohydrate,	protein	and	fat.	In	one	team,	not	only	are	there	differing	taste
preferences,	there	are	also	different	nutrition	priorities.	The	first	player	in	the
lunch	line	may	be	trying	to	add	muscle	mass,	while	the	second	is	looking	to
reduce	body	fat,	the	third	is	recovering	from	injury	and	the	fourth	has	just
managed	to	get	his	body	composition	where	it	needs	to	be,	and	is	trying	to
maintain	that.	On	top	of	this,	each	player	is	a	different	size	and	may	have	a
different	training	load.	How	do	you	then	cater	for	each	player	with	one	generic
meal?	To	allow	each	individual	to	customise	their	meal,	education	and
presentation	of	food	is	critical;	these	are	discussed	below.

Education
As	discussed	earlier,	while	group	education	may	be	cost-effective,	individual
nutrition	knowledge	is	important	to	help	athletes	make	appropriate	food	choices,
especially	
when	faced	with	buffet-style	catering.	Each	player	should	be	aware	of
their	own	goals,	and	how	nutrition	contributes	to	them,	to	enable	them	to	make
appropriate	food	choices.	Putting	up	posters	or	noticeboards	in	the	food-
provision	area	may	help	create	an	environment	that	reinforces	this	education.
Having	the	team	dietitian	and/or	other	nutrition	support	staff	present
occasionally	during	food	service	will	allow	the	players	to	confirm	their	food
choices.
Presentation
Presentation	of	the	food	is	critical	to	allow	players	to	customise	their	own	meals.
Mixed-meal	dishes	such	as	stir-fries	and	casseroles	may	not	be	ideal,	as	players
may	have	differing	protein,	carbohydrate	and	fat	requirements.	Separating	the
protein,	carbohydrate	and,	potentially,	the	fat	(although	most	meals	provided	are
likely	to	have	low	to	moderate	fat	content),	allows	the	athlete	to	pick	and	choose
ingredients	and	portion	sizes	to	suit	their	needs.	For	example,	instead	of	a	stew,
it	may	be	more	appropriate	to	offer	roast	meat,	separate	starchy	and	non-starchy
vegetables	and	a	jug	of	gravy	or	sauce.	Some	options,	such	as	burgers,	may	not
need	separation,	as	the	athlete	can	pull	them	apart	to	consume	what	they	require.
Options	such	as	pasta	may	not	allow	easy	separation	of	components	but	are	often
very	popular	among	teams,	especially	in	the	lead-up	to	competition.	In	such
circumstances,	it	may	be	worthwhile	offering	multiple	options,	so	that	players
with	lower	loads	who	may	be	periodising	carbohydrate	intake	(see	
Chapter	9
)
are	still	able	to	achieve	this.
Catering	for	the	individual	within	the	team
Ideally,	players	will	gain	the	skills	necessary	to	prepare	appropriate	food
matching	their	nutrition	goals.	Occasionally,	however,	due	to	lack	of	time,
motivation	or	available	facilities,	this	will	not	occur.	In	this	case,	it	may	be
worthwhile	exploring	catering	options	for	the	individual.	There	are	many	food
service	companies	that	provide	meals	appropriate	for	the	athlete,	and	are	often
able	to	customise	meal	plans.
Post-game	meals
Post-game	meals	pose	some	unique	challenges.	Not	only	are	there	many	athletes
who	subscribe	to	the	idea	that	they	can	‘eat	whatever	they	want’	post-game	due
to	their	workloads	(potentially	undoing	a	great	deal	of	good	work	if	they	are

trying	to	improve	their	body	composition),	some	will	have	large	appetites	while
others	will	have	none	at	all.	Providing	foods	that	meet	their	nutritional	needs	for
recovery	in	several	different	forms	can	help	work	around	these	issues,	as	long	as
the	athlete	is	well-educated	on	what	they	should	be	putting	into	their	bodies.
Liquids	such	as	flavoured	milks,	providing	around	20	grams	of	protein	and	60
grams	of	carbohydrate	per	600	millilitres,	
are	a	popular	post-match	recovery
option	for	those	with	smaller	appetites,	while	fruit,	sandwiches,	wraps,	protein
shakes	or	bars,	muesli	bars	and	hot	meals	such	as	pasta	and	rice	dishes	all
provide	nutritious	recovery	options.	While	all	of	these	can	be	great	choices,
logistics	often	precludes	offering	all	of	them	at	once,	meaning	there	are	always
likely	to	be	some	athletes	who	miss	out	on	their	preferred	option.	A	good
compromise	can	be	organising	a	smaller	range	of	more	portable	foods	(such	as
milks,	fruit,	sandwiches,	shakes	and	bars)	in	the	change	rooms	post-match	with	a
subsequent	meal	at	a	nearby	restaurant,	depending	on	the	timing	of	the	match.
TRAVEL
Teams	that	travel	for	competition	or	training	need	to	consider	a	number	of
factors	relating	to	nutrition.	These	vary	depending	on	whether	the	travel	is
domestic	or	international	in	nature,	with	domestic	travel	posing	fewer	challenges
than	international	travel.	When	travelling	anywhere	via	air,	consideration	should
be	given	to	food	and	fluid	provision;	this	is	discussed	in	
Chapter	21
.
When	travelling	to	a	country	where	the	types	of	foods	consumed	are
significantly	different	from	those	in	the	athletes’	home	country,	efforts	should	be
made	to	educate	players	on	appropriate	food	choices.	Topics	to	cover	may
include	avoiding	food	from	areas	that	have	a	high	risk	of	food	contamination,
such	as	street	stalls,	and	ensuring	athletes	drink	bottled	water	in	areas	that	do	not
have	safe	tap	water.	Where	possible,	it	is	ideal	to	contact	the	accommodation	or
restaurants	in	which	the	team	will	be	eating	before	they	travel.	Organising	a
menu	of	suitable,	familiar	foods	will	help	reduce	the	risk	of	gastrointestinal
issues,	or	players	not	eating.	Again,	having	a	stockpile	of	suitable	snacks	for
players	will	also	help	them	achieve	their	nutritional	goals.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
Although	‘pack	mentality’	is	common	among	teams	of	athletes,	it	needs	to	be
recognised	that	each	individual	athlete	is	likely	to	have	different	goals,	taste
preferences,	learning	styles	and	motivations.	Each	of	these	needs	to	be	taken	into

preferences,	learning	styles	and	motivations.	Each	of	these	needs	to	be	taken	into
consideration,	along	with	the	intricacies	of	each	sport,	including	training
schedules	and	competition	structures	when	providing	food	for	teams	or	advising
athletes	on	what	to	consume.	Education	is	key	to	empowering	individual	athletes
to	make	appropriate	food	choices,	and	while	a	blanket	approach	to	nutritional
advice	may	seem	tempting,	a	customised	approach	is	likely	to	be	much	more
effective.	Once	each	individual	is	sufficiently	educated,	it	is	important	to	ensure
that	their	food	environment	is	conducive	to	making	good	choices.	Pre-planning
by	the	nutrition	and	catering	staff	will	help	make	the	good	choice	the	easy
choice.
Key	messages
•	The	different	game	factors	(game	length,	skill	requirements,	position	played,
movement,	game	breaks	and	season	played)	must	all	be	considered	when
formulating	nutrition	advice	for	individuals	in	team	sports.
•	‘Pack	mentality’	can	be	used	in	a	positive	way	to	influence	nutrition	intake	of
team	sport	athletes.
•	Ideally,	blanket	nutrition	recommendations	need	to	be	avoided	and
individualised	nutrition	advice	provided	in	a	team	sport	setting.
•	Providing	appropriate	food	and	fluid	during	competition	can	be	complicated	by
game	structure.
•	Thinking	strategically	will	ensure	athletes	have	a	maximum	number	of
opportunities	to	refuel.
•	Team-wide	catering	is	a	valuable	tool,	but	individuals	need	to	be	properly
educated	to	make	the	right	choices.
•	When	travelling,	differences	in	culture	and	hygiene	standards	need	to	be
considered.
REFERENCES	AND	FURTHER	READING
Bishop,	D.	&	Girard,	O.,	2013,	‘Determinants	of	team-sport	performance:
Implications	for	altitude	training	by	team-sport	athletes’,	
British	Journal	of
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	47,	suppl.	1,	pp.	S17–21.
Bradley,	P.S.,	Carling,	C.,	Diaz,	A.G.	et	al.,	2013,	‘Match	performance	and
physical	capacity	of	players	in	the	top	three	competitive	standards	of	English
professional	soccer’,	
Human	Movement	Science,
	vol.	32,	no.	4,	pp.	808–21.
Burke,	L.M.,	2008,	‘Caffeine	and	sports	performance’,	
Applied	Physiology,

Nutrition,	and	Metabolism,
	vol.	33,	no.	6,	pp.	1319–34.
Cortese,	R.D.M.,	Veiros,	M.B.,	Feldman,	C.	et	al.,	2016,	‘Food	safety	and
hygiene	practices	of	vendors	during	the	chain	of	street	food	production	in
Florianopolis,	Brazil:	A	cross-sectional	study’,	
Food	Control,
	vol.	62,	pp.
178–86.
Liu,	Z.,	Zhang,	G.	&	Zhang,	X.,	2014,	‘Urban	street	foods	in	Shijiazhuang	city,
China:	Current	status,	safety	practices	and	risk	mitigating	strategies’,	
Food
Control,
	vol.	41,	pp.	212–18.
Reilly,	T.,	Waterhouse,	J.,	Burke,	L.M.	et	al.,	2009,	‘Nutrition	for	travel’,
Journal	of	Sports	Sciences,
	vol.	25,	suppl.	1,	pp.	S125–34.

Weight	category	and	aesthetic	sport
athletes
Regina	Belski
Weight	category	and	aesthetic	sport	athletes	have	some	additional	nutrition
considerations	that	are	not	strictly	linked	to	performance.	For	weight	category
sports,	which	include	sports	like	boxing	and	lightweight	rowing,	athletes	are
required	to	be	under	a	certain	weight.	If	an	athlete	is	over	the	cut-off	during	the
weigh-in,	they	cannot	compete.	This	can	lead	to	suboptimal	practices	to	‘make
weight’,	including	severe	fluid	and	food	restriction,	use	of	laxatives	and
diuretics,	and	extreme	use	of	saunas.	Timing	of	weigh-ins	also	varies	from	sport
to	sport	and	even	among	competitions,	with	some	being	immediately	before	an
event	and	others	several	days	beforehand,	so	it	is	vital	to	understand	the	rules
and	processes	of	the	sport	and	competition	in	which	the	athlete	is	competing.
For	aesthetic	sports,	which	include	sports	like	gymnastics,	ballet	and	diving,
there	is	a	strong	focus	on	appearance	as	part	of	the	way	performance	is	assessed.
Problems	relating	to	nutrition	can	result,	as	this	focus	on	aesthetics	can	lead	to
problems	with	body	image	and	suboptimal	dietary	practices	to	try	to	control
body	size	or	shape.

body	size	or	shape.
This	chapter	discusses	the	common	challenges	faced	when	working	with
weight	category	and	aesthetic	sport	athletes	and	provides	some	practical
strategies	on	how	best	to	support	these	athlete	groups.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will:
•	understand	the	additional	challenges	faced	by	athletes	competing	in	weight
category	sports	•	understand	the	additional	challenges	faced	by	athletes
competing	in	aesthetic	sports	•	be	able	to	propose	two	different	approaches	to
managing	weight-making	behaviours	of	athletes.
WEIGHT	CATEGORY	SPORTS
Weight	category	sports	are	those	sports	where	athletes	are	required	to	compete	in
weight	categories	or	classes—for	example,	boxing,	lightweight	rowing	and	judo
—and	sports	such	as	horseracing,	where	jockeys	are	weighed	prior	to	every	race.
Weight	categories	were	introduced	to	these	sports	as	it	is	widely	believed	that
additional	weight,	and	accompanying	increases	in	strength	if	that	weight	is
derived	from	muscle	mass,	puts	athletes	at	a	competitive	advantage.	To	create	a
fair	competition,	a	maximum	weight	limit	is	set.	Some	examples	of	weight
categories	used	in	Australia	and	New	Zealand	can	be	seen	in	
Table	17.1
.
For	example,	a	lightweight	rower	in	great	health	and	achieving	personal	bests
may	still	have	a	problem	if	they	weigh	in	500	grams	over	their	cut-off,	as	this
means	that—regardless	of	how	talented	and	prepared	they	are—they	cannot
compete.
For	professional	jockeys	there	is	even	more	pressure,	with	failure	to	meet	the
weight	cut-off	for	a	given	race	potentially	leading	to	fines	and	suspensions	as
well	as	loss	of	income.	While	riding	weights	in	Australia	range	from	the	set
minimum	of	53	kilograms	(which	includes	the	saddle	and	riding	equipment,	but
not	the	whip	and	cap)	up	to	approximately	61	kilograms,	most	jockeys	strive	to
be	the	minimum	weight	as	this	increases	the	number	of	races	they	are	suitable
for/able	to	race	in	(based	on	horse	handicapping).	For	this	reason,	it	is	not
unusual	for	
weight-making
	behaviours	to	occur	in	these	sports.
Weight-making
Any	behaviour	used	to	quickly	lose	weight	regardless	of	what	that	‘weight’	is	(water,	fat,	muscle)	before
a	competition	weigh-in.

a	competition	weigh-in.
COMMON	WEIGHT-MAKING	PRACTICES
While	making	weight	may	not	always	lead	to	problems,	extreme	weight-making
behaviours	are	problematic.	Such	weight-making	practices	include	extensive	use
of	saunas	to	dehydrate	the	body,	use	of	diuretics,	excessive	exercise,	running
dressed	in	heavy,	non-breathable	clothing	to	promote	sweating,	not	eating	or
drinking,	and	the	use	and	abuse	of	diet	pills,	purging	and	other	such	practices
(Crighton	
et	al.
	2015).	Unfortunately,	these	more	extreme	weight-making
behaviours	have	both	short-term	and	long-term	health	effects	and	have
contributed	to	the	death	of	athletes	in	some	cases.
Table	17.1.	Weight	categories	for	selected	sports	(Australia	and	New
Zealand)
Sport
Sex
Weight
Lightweight	rowing
Men
≤72.5	kg	(team	average
weight	≤70	kg)
Women
≤59	kg	(team	average	weight
≤	57	kg)
Judo
Men
>100	kg
>90	kg	and	up	to	and
including	100	kg
>81	kg	and	up	to	and
including	90	kg
>73	kg	and	up	to	and
including	81	kg
>66	kg	and	up	to	and
including	73	kg
>60	kg	and	up	to	and
including	66	kg
≤60	kg
Open,	with	no	weight
restriction.
Women
>78	kg
>70	kg	and	up	to	and

>70	kg	and	up	to	and
including	78	kg
>63	kg	and	up	to	and
including	70	kg
>57	kg	and	up	to	and
including	63	kg
>52	kg	and	up	to	and
including	57	kg
>48	kg	and	up	to	and
including	52	kg
≤48	kg
Open,	with	no	weight
restriction.
Boxing	(amateur,
youth	and	elite
divisions)
Men
>91	kg
>81	kg	and	up	to	and
including	91	kg
>75	kg	and	up	to	and
including	81	kg
>69	kg	and	up	to	and
including	75	kg
>64	kg	and	up	to	and
including	69	kg
>60	kg	and	up	to	and
including	64	kg
>56	kg	and	up	to	and
including	60	kg
>52	kg	and	up	to	and
including	56	kg
>49	kg	and	up	to	and
including	52	kg
>46	kg	and	up	to	and
including	49	kg
Women
>81	kg
>75	kg	and	up	to	and
including	81	kg
>69	kg	and	up	to	and
including	75	kg
>64	kg	and	up	to	and

>64	kg	and	up	to	and
including	69	kg
>60	kg	and	up	to	and
including	64	kg
>57	kg	and	up	to	and
including	60	kg
>54	kg	and	up	to	and
including	57	kg
>51	kg	and	up	to	and
including	54	kg
>48	kg	and	up	to	and
including	51	kg
>45	kg	and	up	to	and
including	48	kg
Source:	International	Rowing	Federation	<
http://www.worldrowing.com/
>;	International	Judo	Federation
<
https://www.ijf.org/
>;	The	International	Boxing	Association	<
https://www.aiba.org/
>.
It	is	not	unusual	to	see	athletes	trying	to	lose	two–five	kilograms	in	the	days
leading	up	to	competition.	It	is	not	surprising	to	see	athletes	resort	to	extreme
measures,	such	as	cutting/shaving	their	hair,	trimming	fingernails	and	even
inducing	vomiting	or	nosebleeds	in	situations	where	they	are	a	few	grams	over
the	cut-off	at	weigh-ins.
The	potential	negative	health	effects	of	extreme	weight-making	include:
•	dehydration	leading	to	significant	plasma	volume	loss	and	increasing	risk	of
heat	illness	•	drop	in	metabolic	rate	with	repeated	weight-making	practices
utilising	fasting	as	a	result	of	muscle	loss	•	impaired	cognitive	functioning,
including	increased	fatigue,	confusion	and	mood	changes	•	lean	tissue	loss
•	impaired	bone	synthesis	during	periods	of	severe	energy	restriction,	which	may
make	athletes	more	susceptible	to	injury	and	have	a	long-term	impact	on	bone
health.
MANAGING	WEIGHT-MAKING
When	working	with	athletes	in	weight	category	sports,	there	are	two	main
avenues	that	can	be	taken	to	address	weight-making:	(1)	support	the	athlete	to
achieve	a	‘regular’	weight	that	fits	their	weight	category,	thereby	removing	the
need	to	make	weight;	or,	if	this	is	not	possible,	(2)	support	the	athlete	to	‘make
weight’	in	a	safe	way.
While	the	first	option	is	obviously	desirable	from	a	health	perspective,	it	is	not

While	the	first	option	is	obviously	desirable	from	a	health	perspective,	it	is	not
realistic	for	most	athletes,	as	many	prefer	to	compete	at	a	weight	that	is	far	from
ideal	for	their	actual	body	type	and	shape.	Considering	that	athletes	in	most
weight	category	sports	require	significant	lean	body	mass,	which	increases	their
overall	weight,	there	arises	a	conflict	between	building	muscle	and	being	able	to
compete.	It	is	unfortunately	common	for	coaches	to	encourage	athletes	to
compete	in	a	lighter	weight	division	than	that	to	which	they	are	naturally	best
suited,	as	they	are	seen	as	having	an	advantage	over	naturally	smaller/lighter
athletes.	While	this	may	be	true	from	a	physical	strength	perspective,	an	athlete
who	is	severely	dehydrated	and	has	not	properly	eaten	is	not	in	a	position	to
perform	at	their	best.
Weigh-in	times	in	different	sports,	and	even	between	different	levels	of
competition,	vary.	Some	sports/competitions	have	athletes	weigh	in	the	day
before	competition,	allowing	refuelling	and	rehydration	if	required,	but	others
have	weigh-ins	immediately	before	competition	or	even,	in	some	cases,	before
every	bout/match,	making	rehydration	challenging	for	those	who	have	utilised
dehydration	techniques	to	make	weight.	As	discussed	in	
Chapter	11
	(Hydration)
this	has	a	significant	impact	on	performance.
Let’s	take	a	closer	look	at	each	of	the	approaches	athletes	may	choose	to	take.
Regular	weight	=	competition	weight	approach
This	is	considered	the	more	sensible	and	healthy	approach,	as	it	eliminates	the
need	to	‘make	weight’	and	undertake	risky	diet	and/or	dehydration	behaviours.
The	approach	involves	selection	of	the	most	appropriate	weight	category	(within
five	per	cent	of	natural	weight	if	possible)	for	an	athlete	based	on	the	weight
they	are	able	to	attain	and	maintain	while	eating	appropriately,	training	well	and
performing	at	a	high	level.	This	will	involve	losing	weight	for	some	athletes	and
gaining	weight	for	others.	While	this	may	sound	easy	and	obvious,	it	is	an
approach	athletes	and	coaches	are	often	not	comfortable	with,	mostly	because
once	athletes	find	a	place	in	their	‘category’	the	notion	of	moving	into	another
category	is	almost	as	daunting	as	changing	sports,	with	changes	in	the
competition	and	the	competitors.	It	may	also	be	challenging	for	athletes	who	do
not	actually	know	what	their	‘normal’	non-dieting	weight	is;	this	is	particularly
true	for	younger	athletes	who	started	in	a	weight	category	in	their	late	teens	and
remained	in	the	same	category	into	their	twenties	despite	significant	growth	in
height.	These	cases	can	require	time	to	identify	the	best	option—and	time	is	not
something	that	is	always	easy	to	find	for	competitive	athletes.	Where	possible,
nutrition	professionals	can	encourage	athletes	to	use	the	off-season	to	find	a

more	‘natural’	weight.	Anthropometric	assessment	(see	
Chapter	13
	for	more
details)	by	a	trained	professional	should	be	used	to	help	athletes	assess	the	most
appropriate	weight	category	in	which	they	should	compete.
Where	an	athlete	naturally	sits	just	above	a	weight	class	it	may	not	be	clear
which	weight	category	is	best.	One	option	is	to	encourage	the	athlete	to	work	on
gaining	additional	muscle	mass	to	gain	further	strength	and	get	their	weight	up,
closer	to	the	top	of	the	weight	category,	or	alternatively	support	them	to	make
weight	for	the	lower	category	in	a	safe	and	healthy	way	in	the	lead-up	to
competition.
Safer	weight-making	practices
From	a	health	perspective	it	would	be	best	if	athletes	did	not	have	to	make
weight	at	all;	however,	this	is	unfortunately	unlikely	to	be	the	case	where	sports
remain	categorised	by	weight	class.	Therefore,	it	is	important	to	help	athletes	to
make	weight	in	the	safest	way	possible,	without	compromising	short-or	long-
term	health.
This	means	that	athletes	need	to	be	encouraged	to	allow	enough	time	before
competition	to	lose	the	extra	weight.	They	should	avoid	dehydration	practices	or,
if	they	must	use	them,	have	adequate	time	to	rehydrate	before	competition.	It
should	be	made	clear	to	athletes	that	any	weight-making	strategies	are	short-term
measures—for	example,	if	significant	energy	or	fluid	restriction	is	taking	place,
that	it	is	only	for	a	clearly	defined	period	of	time,	after	which	a	healthy	way	of
eating	and	drinking	returns.	It	is	easy	for	athletes	to	fall	into	a	very	restrictive
way	of	eating	or	disordered	eating	involving	bingeing,	purging	or	utilising
laxatives	and/or	diuretics	as	part	of	
their	usual	routine,	compromising	their
wellbeing	and	performance.	Appropriate	strategies	for	managing	weight	in
weight	category	athletes	are	outlined	in	
Box	17.1
.
It	is	important	that	athletes	have	an	opportunity	to	consider	their	options	and
discuss	them	with	their	support	team	when	making	a	decision	about	the	best
approach	for	them.	Advice	needs	to	be	aligned	with	the	rules	of	the	sport,	timing
of	weigh-ins	and	the	physiological	needs	of	the	athlete.	It	is	strongly
recommended	that	any	athlete	participating	in	a	weight	category	sport	should
seek	the	advice	of	a	qualified	sports	dietitian	to	individualise	their	weight
management	plan.
Box	17.1:	Examples	of	advice	for	weight	category	athletes

Well	ahead	of	competition:
•	Develop	a	long-term	plan	for	weight	on-and	off-season.
•	If	necessary,	consume	an	appropriate	energy	restricted	diet	aiming	for	a
maximum	of	500	grams	of	weight	loss	per	week	(see	
Chapter	13
	for	more
details	on	changing	body	composition).
Shortly	before	competition/weigh-in:
•	Avoid	high-salt	foods	that	may	lead	to	water	retention	(for	example,
processed	foods	such	as	deli	meat,	canned	soups/	foods,	frozen	meals,
potato	chips,	soy	sauce,	pickles,	fast	food).
•	Aim	for	a	low-residue,	low-fibre	diet	(for	example,	consume	white	bread
instead	of	wholegrain,	peel	fruit	and	vegetables	before	cooking/eating,
avoid	food	made	with	seeds	and	nuts).
•	Consume	appropriate	amounts	of	fluid,	making	sure	that	fluid	loss	does
not	exceed	two	per	cent	loss	of	body	weight	and	is	replaced	before
competition.
Refuelling	strategies	(if	fluid	and/or	energy	restriction	was	used	to	make
weight):	•	Where	possible,	allow	enough	time	to	rehydrate	(2–4	days).
•	Consume	150	per	cent	of	the	fluid	loss	(for	instance,	drink	1.5	litres	of
fluid	for	each	kilogram	of	weight	lost).
•	Utilise	drinks	containing	electrolytes	and	carbohydrate	to	maximise
hydration	(see	
Chapter	11
	for	more	details	on	optimising	rehydration).
•	Consume	carbohydrates	to	maximise	glycogen	stores.
AESTHETIC	SPORTS
Aesthetic	sports	are	those	sports	where	there	is	a	strong	focus	on	appearance	as
part	of	the	way	performance	is	assessed.	These	include	dance,	gymnastics,
aerobics,	figure	skating,	cheerleading,	ballet	and	diving.	In	many	of	these
aesthetic	sports,	how	an	athlete	looks	while	performing	will	be	a	component	of
how	their	performance	is	evaluated.	Execution	of	particular	technical
movements	is	important,	but	so	is	the	grace	and	beauty	of	that	movement.	This	is
where	problems	relating	to	nutrition	can	arise,	as	this	focus	on	aesthetics	can
lead	to	problems	with	body	image	and	suboptimal	dietary	practices	to	try	to
control	body	size	or	shape.	Most	commonly	this	manifests	as	
disordered	eating
and	energy	restriction	(de	Bruin	
et	al.
	2007).	Another	factor	that	is	not

particularly	helpful	is	that	athletes	often	get	involved	in	these	sports	at	a	young
age,	and	their	bodies	continue	to	grow,	develop	and	change	shape	as	they	age.
However,	for	many	athletes	these	changes	can	be	seen	as	undesirable;	for
example,	the	development	of	larger	breasts	and	wider	hips	is	not	considered
desirable	for	a	ballerina.	These	pressures	make	teenage	girls	in	aesthetic	sports
particularly	vulnerable	to	restrictive	or	disordered	eating.	More	details	of
disordered	eating	and	the	challenges	of	working	with	young	athletes	can	be
found	in	
Chapter	18
.
Disordered	eating
A	variety	of	abnormal	eating	behaviours	that,	by	themselves,	do	not	warrant	diagnosis	of	an	eating
disorder	but	are	usually	not	optimal	for	health	and	performance.
Nutrition	recommendations	for	athletes	in	aesthetic	sports	need	to	be
particularly	mindful	of	how	dietary	changes	could	impact	on	the	physical
appearance	of	the	individual	athlete.	While	muscle	gain	is	desirable	in	many
sports,	for	aesthetic	athletes	a	muscle	distribution	that	is	considered	to	be	less
physically	attractive	can	lead	to	lower	competition	scores.
It	is	important	to	acknowledge	the	stereotypical	body	shapes	and	physiques
found	in	many	aesthetic	sports,	but	also	to	remind	athletes	that	they	are
individuals	and	not	everyone	is	exactly	the	same.	Where	possible,	it	is	wise	to
have	some	examples	of	high-performing	athletes	in	their	sport	with	different
body	shapes	from	the	standard.	In	gymnastics,	a	very	good	example	is	the
difference	in	physique	between	two	top	2008	Beijing	Olympic	gymnasts,	Nastia
Liukin	and	Shawn	Johnson	(both	from	the	USA	team).	These	two	gymnasts	have
vastly	different	body	shapes;	they	won	both	gold	and	silver	medals	in	the	same
events,	demonstrating	that	different	body	shapes	can	still	lead	to	great	outcomes.
Simple	visual	examples	can	have	a	significant	effect	on	young,	impressionable
athletes,	and	help	to	encourage	even	aesthetic	sport	athletes	to	focus	on
optimising	their	performance	more	than	worrying	about	the	exact	size	and	shape
of	their	bodies.	In	situations	where	body-image	concerns	are	present,	it	is	wise	to
consider	the	involvement	of	a	sports	psychologist	to	support	the	athlete.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	understand	that	athletes	who	compete	in
weight	category	sports	are	under	extreme	pressures	to	achieve	a	specific	weight

weight	category	sports	are	under	extreme	pressures	to	achieve	a	specific	weight
to	avoid	exclusion	from	competition.	Weight-making	is	a	common	practice
among	athletes	in	weight	category	sports	and	can	lead	to	both	short-and	long-
term	negative	health	outcomes;	therefore,	athletes	need	professional	guidance
and	support	to	either	attain	and	compete	at	a	weight	that	is	easily	sustainable	for
the	athlete	or	to	support	them	to	make	weight	in	a	safer	manner.
Aesthetic	sport	athletes	are	under	an	additional	spotlight	in	relation	to	their
physical	appearance,	as	how	they	look	when	performing	is	a	component	of	how
their	performance	is	evaluated.	These	athletes	are	more	likely	to	develop
concerns	regarding	their	body	image	and	should	be	supported	to	adopt	healthy
eating	practices	in	line	with	personalised	goals.
Key	messages
•	Athletes	in	weight	category	sports	are	prone	to	undertake	risky	weight-making
behaviours.
•	Weight	category	sport	athletes	should	be	supported	to	minimise	the	need	to
make	weight,	or	do	so	in	a	safer	manner.
•	Aesthetic	sport	athletes	are	at	higher	risk	of	disordered	body	image	and,	hence,
disordered	eating.
•	Aesthetic	sport	athletes	should	be	supported	to	focus	on	their	personal	goals
and	performance,	rather	than	on	body	size	or	shape.
REFERENCES
Crighton,	B.,	Close,	G.L.	&	Morton,	J.P.,	2016,	‘Alarming	weight	cutting
behaviours	in	mixed	martial	arts:	A	cause	for	concern	and	a	call	for	action’,
British	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine
,	vol.	50,	no.	8,	pp.	446–7,	doi:
10.1136/bjsports-2015-094732.
de	Bruin,	A.K.,	Oudejans,	R.R.	&	Bakker,	F.C.,	2007,	‘Dieting	and	body	image
in	aesthetic	sports:	A	comparison	of	Dutch	female	gymnasts	and	non-
aesthetic	sport	participants’,	
Psychology	of	Sport	and	Exercise,
	vol.	8,	no.	4,
pp.	507–20.

Young	athletes
Helen	O’Connor	and	Bronwen	Lundy
Engagement	in	physical	activity	has	a	range	of	important	physical,	social	and
mental	health	benefits	for	young	people.	Sports	participation	can	be	at	a	range	of
levels,	from	active	recreational	engagement	through	to	elite,	internationally
representative	competition.	Young	prepubertal	athletes	can	often	be	engaged	in
more	than	one	sport,	even	at	a	relatively	high	level.	However,	as	they	progress
into	adolescence	and	reach	national	or	internationally	representative	levels,
sports	participation	becomes	increasingly	specialised,	typically	focusing	on	only
one	sport.
Nutrition	is	important	for	young	athletes,	to	support	overall	growth	and
development	as	well	as	optimal	sports	performance.	Engagement	in	sport	has	the
potential	to	motivate	improved	dietary	practices	to	support	performance
improvement.	In	developed	countries,	and	increasingly	in	developing	countries,
young	athletes	experience	an	obesogenic	environment	and	the	literature	suggests
that	athletes—even	those	at	elite	or	professional	levels—consume	diets	that	are
not	consistent	with	public	health	or	sports	nutrition	guidelines	(although	there	is
evidence	that	the	dietary	intakes	of	young	athletes	are	superior	to	their	non-

athletic	counterparts).	Typical	(Croll	
et	al.
	2006)	food	habits	in	childhood	and
adolescence—which	include	a	preference	for	fast	foods,	inadequate	vegetable
intake	and	high	intakes	of	nutrient-poor	discretionary	foods	and	sugar-sweetened
beverages—are	also	reported	in	young	athletes	(Parnell	
et	al.
	2016).	
There	is	a
need	for	nutrition	education	which	includes	skills	in	shopping	and	cooking
throughout	these	developmental	years.	As	young	athletes	may	spend	much	of
their	spare	time	training,	they	often	have	less	time	to	participate	in	or	observe
food	preparation	skills	in	the	home.
Young	athletes	have	special	nutrition	needs.	They	can	also	be	at	an	increased
risk	of	inadequate	or	inappropriate	dietary	intake	or	supplement	use.	These	risks
may	result	from	the	additional	demands	of	serious	training	on	their	capacity	to
consume	a	diet	that	has	sufficient	energy	and	macro-and	micronutrients.
Additionally,	pressure	to	attain	a	specific	weight	or	body	composition	can
encourage	restrictive	eating	practices	or	use	of	inappropriate	dietary	supplements
or	ergogenic	aids,	contributing	to	this	risk.	Clearly,	childhood	and	adolescence	is
an	important	life	stage	for	growth	and	development,	as	well	as	an	opportunity	to
establish	healthy	eating	habits,	a	positive	relationship	with	food	and	a	robust
body	image.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	identify	special	nutritional	requirements	and	considerations	for	young	athletes
•	understand	the	challenges	of	ensuring	young	athletes	consume	sufficient
energy	and	nutrients	to	sustain	growth	as	well	as	optimise	training	adaptations
and	sports	performance
•	outline	the	risks	associated	with	energy	restriction,	including	relative	energy
deficiency	in	sport	(RED-S),	and	the	associated	negative	physical,	mental
health	and	body-image	consequences
•	understand	differences	in	thermoregulation	between	young	and	adult	athletes
and	how	this	may	impact	hydration	strategies	and	the	risk	of	exertional	heat
illness
•	understand	how	dietary	supplements	are	attractive	to	young	athletes	but	also
the	potential	risks	associated	with	their	use	at	the	early	phase	of	their
development	and	sports	career.
THE	ROLE	OF	NUTRITION	IN	SUPPORTING
GROWTH	AND	DEVELOPMENT	OF	YOUNG

GROWTH	AND	DEVELOPMENT	OF	YOUNG
ATHLETES
During	childhood,	growth	and	development	is	relatively	steady	and	occurs	at	a
similar	rate	in	boys	and	girls.	The	physical	strength	and	exercise	capacity	of
prepubertal	boys	and	girls	is	generally	similar	at	this	age	stage	and,	although
they	often	compete	separately,	many	recreational	sports	permit	girls	and	boys	to
compete	together.	During	puberty,	the	rate	of	growth	increases	until	peak	height
velocity	is	reached.	This	more	rapid	rate	of	growth	is	often	referred	to	as	the
pubertal	growth	spurt,	although	it	is	important	to	recognise	that	the	onset	and
growth	rate	during	this	‘spurt’	varies	widely.	
Girls	generally	commence	their
growth	spurt	and	reach	peak	height	velocity	two	years	earlier	(~12	years)	than
boys.
High-level	engagement	in	sport	can	sometimes	make	it	more	difficult	for
young	athletes	to	consume	sufficient	energy	to	meet	the	demands	of	training,
especially	during	the	pubertal	growth	spurt	when	there	are	additional	energy
demands	for	growth.	Inadequate	energy	intake	can	result	in	delayed	growth	and,
sometimes,	increased	fatigue,	poor	recovery	and	a	range	of	more	serious
consequences	if	this	is	chronic.	Although	increased	physical	activity	usually
increases	appetite	to	a	level	that	helps	the	young	athlete	match	their	energy
needs,	young	athletes	will	still	need	specific	guidance	to	help	plan	their	dietary
intake	around	training	demands.	This	can	also	sometimes	be	the	case	when	there
is	a	relatively	rapid	increase	in	the	duration	or	intensity	of	training,	which	can
occur	when	a	young	athlete	is	identified	for	a	talented	athlete	program	or	if	they
move	up	to	a	new	training	level.
There	are	a	number	of	practical	factors	that	can	also	make	it	more	difficult	for
young	athletes	to	consume	sufficient	energy.	The	demands	of	busy	training
schedules,	either	before	or	after	school,	can	reduce	the	time	available	for	food
preparation	and	consumption.	Some	young	athletes	avoid	food	and/or	fluid	close
to,	or	even	during,	training	sessions	due	to	issues	with	gastrointestinal
discomfort	or	the	fear	of	experiencing	a	‘stitch’.	These	issues	are	more	common
in	sports	that	involve	running,	jumping	or	tumbling,	as	opposed	to	swimming
and	cycling	where	the	torso	experiences	less	impact.	Young	athletes	usually
need	to	consume	additional	food	and	fluids	during	school	hours	to	meet	their
higher	energy	demands;	preparing	and	carrying	the	additional	food,	or
purchasing	or	accessing	this	at	school,	presents	another	challenge.	Higher
intakes	can	sometimes	also	result	in	comments	from	other,	less	active	peers
about	the	volume	of	food	consumed,	which	can	make	some	young	athletes	feel
self-conscious.	Fussy	eating	is	a	further	factor	challenging	the	attainment	of
sufficient	energy	intake,	and	addressing	this	merely	by	increasing	the	volume	of

sufficient	energy	intake,	and	addressing	this	merely	by	increasing	the	volume	of
a	limited	range	of	foods	can	make	the	diet	extremely	monotonous	and
unappetising.	Younger	athletes	need	support	and	encouragement	to	widen	the
range	of	foods	consumed,	which	is	valuable	for	positive	longer-term	health	and
performance	outcomes.
SPECIAL	NUTRIENT	REQUIREMENTS	OF
YOUNG	ATHLETES
Protein
Children	and	adolescents	need	additional	protein	(compared	to	adults)	to	support
growth	(for	example,	the	Australian	recommended	dietary	intake	for	protein	is
0.75	and	0.84	g/kg	BM/day	for	adult	women	and	men	respectively,	versus	0.77–
0.91	and	0.91–0.99	g/kg	BM/day	for	girls	and	boys	respectively	[NHMRC
2006]).	
Adult	athletes	need	additional	protein	to	assist	in	the	growth	and/or
maintenance	of	lean	body	mass.	Although	few	studies	have	been	performed	with
young	athletes,	there	is	some	evidence	for	an	increased	protein	requirement
(1.35–1.6	g/kg	BM/	day),	especially	in	adolescents	with	high	musculature	or
undergoing	heavy	training	(Aerenhouts	
et	al.
	2011).	As	young	athletes	in
developed	countries	typically	consume	around	1.2–1.6	g/kg	BM/day	of	protein,
it	is	anticipated	that	almost	all	would	obtain	sufficient	protein	from	food	and	not
require	supplemental	protein	(Desbrow	&	Leveritt	2015).
Adequate	energy	intake	is	critical	to	the	maintenance	of	positive	nitrogen
balance	in	athletes.	In	practice,	inadequate	energy	is	more	often	a	factor	limiting
muscle	gain	than	inadequate	protein;	however,	younger	athletes	on	restrictive
diets	may	be	at	risk	of	both	inadequate	energy	and	protein	intake.	Although	the
research	on	protein	requirements	in	athletes	focuses	on	adult	athletes,	it	seems
likely	that	younger	athletes	would	benefit	from	strategies	used	by	adults	to
optimise	development	and	maintenance	of	muscle,	including	distribution	of
protein	over	the	day	and	protein	intake	around	the	time	of	training	(see	
Chapter
9
).
Carbohydrate
As	with	protein	requirements,	there	is	limited	research	on	how	the	carbohydrate

requirements	of	young	athletes	differ	from	those	of	adults.	Early	muscle	biopsy
studies	found	that	young	athletes	have	greater	oxidative	enzyme	concentration
and	aerobic	capacity,	and	less	adaptation	to	anaerobic	enzyme	capacity
(Erickson	&	Saltin	1974).	They	have	been	reported	to	rely	more	on	oxidative
(aerobic)	metabolism	during	exercise	(Taylor	
et	al.
	1997).	Other	studies	have
shown	no	difference	in	adaptation	compared	to	adults	(Haralambie	1982).	Taken
together,	there	is	little	evidence	to	support	major	differences	in	carbohydrate
adaptation	or	fuel	utilisation	between	younger	and	adult	athletes.
Athletes	should	focus	on	planning	carbohydrate	intake	around	exercise
duration	and	intensity	(see	
Chapter	9
	for	recommended	intake	ranges).	Young
athletes	typically	have	lower	training	volumes	than	adults,	although	this	depends
on	both	the	sport	and	the	individual	athlete.	It	is	usually	the	case	for	endurance
and	team	sports,	where	training	loads	are	built	gradually	until	training	loads	are
similar	to	those	of	adults	in	late	adolescence.	For	this	reason,	carbohydrate
loading	is	not	necessary	for	young	athletes	until	they	undertake	longer-duration
endurance	events	in	late	adolescence.
Micronutrients	at	risk	in	young	athletes
Young	athletes	commonly	have	low	levels	of	calcium	and	iron	(Desbrow	&
Leveritt	2015),	especially	female	athletes	after	menarche	when	menstrual	loss
increases	iron	requirements.	Iron	loss	may	also	be	greater	in	athletes
participating	in	endurance	sports	
(see	
Chapter	14
).	Iron	intake	is	usually	lower	in
athletes	restricting	energy	intake	and	sometimes	in	those	who	are	vegetarian	or
eat	less	animal	protein	(see	Chapter	5).
Calcium	is	another	key	nutrient,	given	the	increased	requirement	during
childhood	and	adolescence	to	support	bone	development.	Inadequate	calcium
intake	is	often	reported	during	childhood	and	adolescence	in	the	general
population	and	is	also	commonly	reported	in	studies	of	young	athletes.	The	risk
of	inadequate	intake	is	increased	in	those	who	avoid	or	restrict	dairy	products.
Vitamin	D	is	another	nutrient	which	may	be	lower	in	athletes	who	train	longer
hours	indoors	or	in	latitudes	where	there	is	less	sunlight	and	foods	are	not
fortified	with	vitamin	D.	Sunscreen	use,	while	important	to	prevent	sun	damage,
does	limit	synthesis	of	vitamin	D	from	the	skin,	so	sun	exposure	without
burning,	where	possible,	is	a	valuable	strategy	to	support	adequate	vitamin	D
levels.	Athletes	with	darker	skin	and	those	who	wear	full-length	clothing	will
produce	less	vitamin	D	from	sun	exposure	and	may	be	more	reliant	on	obtaining
vitamin	D	from	dietary	sources.
It	is	important	to	recognise	that	use	of	supplements	to	treat	an	existing	nutrient

It	is	important	to	recognise	that	use	of	supplements	to	treat	an	existing	nutrient
deficiency	may	be	warranted.	This	should	be	undertaken	after	a	medical
diagnosis	and	in	conjunction	with	professional	support	from	a	sports	dietitian	to
assist	the	athlete	to	improve	dietary	intake	and	prevent	future	deficiency	through
a	balanced	intake	of	whole	foods.
THERMOREGULATION	AND	HYDRATION	IN
YOUNG	ATHLETES
We	used	to	believe	that	children	were	less	able	to	regulate	their	body
temperature	than	adults,	but	we	now	know	that	this	is	not	the	case.	Children’s
greater	surface	area-to-mass	ratio	is	actually	an	advantage	for	heat	loss	in	most
circumstances,	except	when	environmental	temperature	is	greater	than	skin
temperature	(>3
o
C)	(Rowland	2008).	In	practice,	younger	athletes	do	not	usually
train	or	compete	at	the	same	work	rates	as	adults;	rather,	they	exercise	at	loads
commensurate	with	their	age	and	body	size,	which	protects	them	from	excessive
heat	storage	(Rowland	2008).	Children	also	have	higher	skin	blood	flow	during
exercise,	and	this	promotes	increased	convective	heat	loss.	Children	do	sweat
less	than	adults	but	this	actually	helps	to	reduce	the	risk	of	hypohydration.
Relative	to	their	body	mass,	prepubertal	athletes	have	been	shown	to	have	better
evaporative	cooling	than	young	adults.	The	smaller,	more	diffuse	sweat	drops
produced	in	prepubertal	children	promote	better	evaporation	than	larger	sweat
drops	in	adults,	which	tend	to	join	together	and	drip	rather	than	evaporate	from
the	body.	The	lower	body	mass	in	children	essentially	means	they	need	to
produce	less	sweat	than	adults	to	maintain	heat	balance	for	the	same	change	in
core	temperature	(Rowland	2008).
In	2011,	the	American	Academy	of	Pediatrics	released	a	policy	statement
(American	Academy	of	Pediatrics	
et	al.
	2011)	concluding	that	young	athletes	do
not	have	less	effective	thermoregulatory	ability,	insufficient	cardiovascular
capacity	or	lower	physical	exertion	tolerance	compared	with	adults	during
exercise	in	the	heat,	as	long	as	adequate	hydration	is	maintained.	Aside	from
inadequate	hydration,	the	primary	determinants	of	reduced	performance	and
exertional	heat-illness	risk	in	youth	during	sports	in	hot	environments	include
undue	physical	exertion,	insufficient	recovery	between	repeated	bouts	of
exercise	and	closely	scheduled	same-day	training	sessions	or	competition
rounds.	Inappropriate	clothing,	uniforms	and	protective	equipment	also	plays	a
role	in	excessive	heat	retention.	In	practice,	serious	heat	illness	in	young	athletes
is	infrequently	reported	in	the	medical	literature,	suggesting	that	such	events	are

rare	(Rowland	2008).	In	practice,	many	of	the	strategies	for	hydration	and
competition	refuelling	used	for	adults	are	appropriate	to	young	athletes.
Although	the	volumes	of	fluid	required	are	less	for	young	athletes,	they	should
still	aim	to	reduce	net	fluid	loss	to	<2	per	cent	of	body	weight	(see	also	
Chapter
11
).
RISKS	AND	CHALLENGES	ASSOCIATED	WITH
OPTIMISING	PHYSIQUE	ATTRIBUTES	IN
YOUNG	ATHLETES
Physique	is	an	important	attribute	for	success	in	many	sports.	Characteristics
such	as	larger	stature	and	arm	span	are	important	for	shooting	and	reach	in	sports
such	as	basketball,	swimming	and	tennis,	while	in	gymnastics,	diving	and	figure
skating	a	shorter,	compact	frame	facilitates	the	ease	of	aerial	rotation.	Other
physique	characteristics	important	to	many	sports	include	increased	muscularity
and	lower	levels	of	body	fat.	Although	these	can	be	modified	by	diet	and
training,	they	are	also	under	genetic	control	and	so	there	are	limits	to	the
capacity	for	change.	Natural	physique	attributes	are	often	early	influencers	of
sport	selection.	Boys	who	are	muscular	and	tall	for	their	age	may	be	attracted	to
sports	such	as	rugby	union	rather	than	gymnastics.
The	timing	of	the	onset	of	puberty	may	also	influence	sport	success.	In	contact
football	sports	such	as	rugby,	there	is	concern	that	early	pubertal	development
provides	an	unfair	advantage	for	talent	identification	over	athletes	of	the	same
age	who	are	relatively	prepubertal	but	similarly	or	more	talented	than	their
earlier-developing	counterparts.	The	reverse	is	also	true	in	some	women’s	sports,
where	the	desired	body	shape	and	size	is	closer	to	the	prepubertal	physique.
Normal	changes	that	occur	during	puberty,	including	an	increase	in	both
muscularity	and,	predominantly	in	females,	acquisition	of	body	fat,	may	result	in
some	talented	athletes	developing	a	physique	that	is	less	desirable	for	their	sport
(Cobley	
et	al.
	2009).
RESTRICTIVE	EATING,	DIETING,	DISORDERED
EATING	AND	ENERGY	DEFICIENCY	IN	YOUNG
ATHLETES

Risks	of	restrictive	eating	and	dieting
Young	athletes	in	sports	where	leanness	is	highly	desirable	(such	as	gymnastics,
ballet,	diving	or	figure	skating)	or	where	they	need	to	make	weight	to	compete
(as	in	lightweight	rowing,	boxing	and	martial	arts)	are	at	an	increased	risk	of
restrictive	eating,	which	can	have	negative	short-and	long-term	consequences.	In
the	short	term,	they	may	consume	inadequate	energy	to	train	effectively,	recover,
adapt	and	improve	performance.	Growth	may	also	be	compromised.	Inadequate
carbohydrate	intake	may	result	in	glycogen	depletion,	and	this	can	increase
fatigue	and	reduce	training	capacity	and	the	potential	for	optimal	metabolic
adaptation.	Inadequate	protein	intake	may	compromise	growth	and	lean	mass
development.	When	overall	food	intake	is	reduced,	there	is	also	an	increased	risk
of	deficiency	of	key	micronutrients.
Disordered	eating	and	eating	disorders
In	the	longer	term,	short-term	dieting	may	develop	into	disordered	eating.	This
can	happen	gradually	and	without	the	awareness	of	the	young	athlete,	coach	or
parent.	The	disordered	eating	patterns	can	eventually	progress	to	an	eating
disorder	such	as	anorexia	or	bulimia	nervosa.	Although	prevention	should
always	be	the	primary	aim,	when	disordered	eating	behaviours	develop,	early
intervention	is	essential	and	is	associated	with	significantly	better	longer-term
outcomes.	Although	disordered	eating	can	be	difficult	to	identify	in	its	early
stages,	athlete,	coach	and	parent	education	can	assist	with	earlier	recognition	of
the	problem	(Jeacocke	&	Beals	2015).
Young	athletes	should	not	be	encouraged	to	reduce	weight	or	body	fat	without
serious	consideration	of	the	potential	negative	effects.	Weight	management	in
young	athletes	requires	the	clinical	expertise	and	professional	support	from	a
sports	dietitian.	Critical	comments	about	weight	or	body	composition	often
initiate	inappropriate	dieting,	and	this	increases	the	risk	of	adverse	outcomes	in
young	athletes	who	are	vulnerable	to	misinformation	and	may	seek	to	rectify
their	weight	‘problems’	with	‘fad’	diets	or	non-evidence-based	approaches.	Once
disordered	eating	practices	develop	they	are	difficult	to	reverse	and	intensive
clinical	intervention	from	a	psychologist/psychiatrist	and	a	dietitian	is	required.
Medication,	family	therapy	and,	sometimes,	hospitalisation	may	be	needed.	The
development	of	an	eating	disorder	can	seriously	jeopardise	the	future	sports
prospects	of	the	athlete	and	lead	to	poorer	longer-term	physical	and	mental
health.	Making	the	decision	about	whether	a	young	athlete	with	disordered

eating	should	continue	participating	in	sport	can	be	challenging.	Guidelines	for
sport	exclusion	and	return	to	play	have	been	developed	on	a	score-based	system
and	can	help	coaches	and	practitioners	make	objective	decisions	(De	Souza	
et	al.
2014).
RELATIVE	ENERGY	DEFICIENCY	IN	SPORT
There	has	been	awareness	for	some	time	that	young	athletes,	most	often	females,
may	experience	health	issues	related	to	insufficient	energy	intake	to	fuel	their
training	and	maintain	other	essential	body	functions	such	as	growth,	repair	of
tissues	such	as	bone	and	normal	reproductive	function.	This	issue	was	initially
described	as	the	‘Female	Athlete	Triad’,	which	acknowledged	the	cluster	of
symptoms	observed,	including	low	bone-mineral	density,	low	energy
availability,	eating	disorder	or	disordered	eating	and	menstrual	dysfunction
(Drinkwater	
et	al.
	2005).	Energy	availability	(EA)	is	a	relatively	new	concept
that	describes	the	energy	remaining	to	maintain	essential	body	functions	after
accounting	for	expenditure	for	exercise	training	(Loucks	2003).
EA	is	defined	by	the	following	equation:
EA	(kJ/kg	FFM)	=	(energy	intake	–	energy	cost	of	exercise)	/	fat-free	mass
Low	energy	availability	(LEA)	may	occur	accidentally	through	a
misunderstanding	of	the	energy	needs	for	sport,	as	a	result	of	dietary	restraint	or
as	the	consequence	of	disordered	eating	(Mountjoy	
et	al.
	2014).	LEA	is
considered	to	occur	when	EA	drops	below	a	threshold	of	125	kJ/kg	FFM.
Awareness	and	improved	understanding	of	the	impact	of	LEA	has	continued
to	evolve	and	it	is	now	clear	that	the	consequences	go	beyond	menstrual
dysfunction	and	decreased	bone	health	(Mountjoy	
et	al.
	2014).	Evidence	of
negative	consequences	is	also	evident	in	male	athletes,	although	this	is	less	well
characterised	than	in	females.	The	term	‘relative	energy	deficiency	in	sport’
(RED-S)	(Mountjoy	
et	al.
	2014)	expands	and	reconceptualises	the	‘Female
Athlete	Triad’	issues,	acknowledging	that	both	male	and	female	athletes	may	be
affected	and	that	LEA	may	affect	multiple	body	systems,	including
gastrointestinal,	immunological,	cardiovascular	and	endocrine	function.	In
young	athletes,	growth	and	the	attainment	of	optimal	peak	bone	mass	may	also
be	affected	(
Box	18.1
).
Identifying	RED-S	in	young	individual	athletes	and

Identifying	RED-S	in	young	individual	athletes	and
teams
Identification	and	assessment	of	LEA	in	field	settings	is	difficult	due	to
challenges	in	accurately	measuring	energy	intake	and	exercise	energy
expenditure	(Melin	&	Lundy	2015).	Even	when	accurate	measurements	can	be
obtained,	these	assessments	represent	only	a	single	point	in	time	and	cannot
identify	whether	the	reported	energy	availability	is	representative	of	the	usual
diet	or	is	a	short-term	change.	Measurement	of	resting	metabolic	rate	can	be	a
useful	screening	tool	as	it	is	often	suppressed	in	LEA.	Relevant	indicators	in	the
athlete’s	clinical	history	may	also	help	to	identify	RED-S	(
Box	18.2
).	A	helpful
screening	tool,	the	LEAF-Q	(Low	Energy	Availability	in	Females	questionnaire)
is	freely	available,	non-threatening	and	quick	to	complete	(Melin	
et	al.
	2014).
Box	18.1:	Consequences	of	RED-S
•	Metabolic
•	Endocrine
•	Bone	health
•	Menstrual	function
•	Immunological
•	Gastrointestinal
•	Cardiovascular
•	Psychological
•	Growth	and	development
•	Haematological
Source:	Adapted	from	Mountjoy	
et	al.
	2014.
Box	18.2:	Questions	to	consider	if	RED-S	is	suspected
1.	Does	the	athlete	have	a	history	of	frequent	illness	or	injury?
2.	For	females,	do	they	have	a	normal	menstrual	cycle?
3.	Has	body	composition	been	a	focus	of	their	training	or	personally?
4.	Do	they	have	normal	bone	health?
5.	Subjectively,	what	is	their	diet	plan	like?
6.	Do	they	have	a	strong	focus	on	healthy	eating?
7.	Do	they	adequately	fuel	training	sessions?

7.	Do	they	adequately	fuel	training	sessions?
For	teams	or	squads	of	young	female	athletes,	this	may	be	helpful	to	identify
those	who	require	further	medical	and	or	nutrition	support	and	follow	up.	The
development	of	a	similar	tool	for	male	athletes	would	be	welcomed.
SPORTS	SUPPLEMENT	USE	IN	YOUNG
ATHLETES
Young	adolescent	athletes	in	sports	where	larger	mass	and	muscularity	are
important	may	be	attracted	to	use	supplements	to	support	lean	mass	gain.	While
cautious	use	of	supplements,	particularly	balanced	products	such	as	liquid	meals
(for	example,	Sustagen
TM
)	can	assist	young	athletes	in	meeting	energy	needs
more	easily,	heavy	use	
of	single	nutrient	supplements,	such	as	protein	powders
and	amino	acids,	may	displace	healthy	foods	and	potentially	increase	the	risk	of
ingestion	of	substances	prohibited	for	use	in	sport.	Even	if	the	athlete	is	not	yet
undergoing	drug	testing,	some	of	these	substances	(for	example,	stimulants	and
anabolic	steroids)	are	detrimental	to	health.	Stimulant	abuse	can	result	in	a	wide
range	of	negative	health	consequences,	including	addiction/dependence,
headaches,	gastrointestinal	upset	and	interrupted	sleep	patterns.	Anabolic
steroids	can	result	in	increased	aggression,	liver	or	heart	damage	along	with	a
range	of	other	serious	effects.
These	substances	may	be	contaminants	in	the	product	and	not	disclosed	on	the
label.	There	is	also	evidence	that	early	use	of	supplements	for	lean	mass	gain
may	later	influence	inclination	to	use	substances	prohibited	by	sports	drug
agencies.	For	these	reasons,	a	‘food	first’	approach	is	recommended	for	athletes
younger	than	18,	with	supplement	use	limited	to	sports	foods	(carbohydrate-
electrolyte	drinks,	gels,	sports	bars	and	liquid	meals)	rather	than	ergogenic	aids
(Barkoukis	
et	al.
	2015).	Young	athletes	have	so	much	development	potential
from	training,	and	the	use	of	ergogenic	aids	at	this	stage	introduces	additional
risk;	performance	assistance	is	best	incorporated	after	optimising	young	athletes’
preparation	through	a	well-designed	eating	plan,	effective	training,
psychological	strategies	and	technical	development.	Supplements	are	often
viewed	as	the	‘magic	bullet’	and	can	contribute	to	a	‘win	at	all	costs’	mentality.
The	risks	of	supplement	use	often	remain	poorly	understood	at	this
developmental	stage	(Desbrow	&	Leveritt	2015).
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES

SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
Young	athletes	have	special	nutrition	needs	to	support	growth	and	development
as	well	as	training.	These	mostly	revolve	around	the	need	for	additional	energy
and	for	key	nutrients	such	as	protein,	carbohydrate,	iron	and	calcium.	The
additional	needs	for	protein	and	carbohydrate	are	generally	consistent	with	adult
athletes	per	kilogram	of	body	weight,	although	more	research	is	required.
Strategies	such	as	carbohydrate	loading	are	not	needed	until	late	adolescence,	as
the	durations	and	distances	of	endurance	events	are	shorter	for	young	athletes.
At	this	stage,	developing	athletes	are	often	conscious	of	body	image	and	can	be
vulnerable	to	restrictive	eating,	energy	and	nutrient	deficiency.	Support	to
maintain	a	positive	body	image	and	a	healthy	diet	is	crucial	to	optimal	physical
and	mental	health.	Where	warning	signs	of	RED-S	or	disordered	eating	emerge,
early	professional	intervention	supports	more	positive	longer-term	outcomes.
Despite	earlier	concerns,	younger	athletes	are	not	at	a	greater	risk	of	exertional
heat	illness	than	adults.	Finally,	young	athletes	are	often	attracted	to	dietary
supplements	and	ergogenic	aids.	At	this	age,	a	‘food	first’	approach	is
recommended	with	an	overarching	philosophy	of	encouraging	healthy	eating	and
physical,	mental	
and	technical	development	over	the	use	of	supplements	(unless
there	is	a	deficiency),	particularly	ergogenic	aids.
Key	messages
•	Young	athletes	have	special	nutrition	needs.	There	is	an	increased	requirement
for	energy,	especially	during	adolescence,	to	support	the	accelerated	rate	in
growth	and	development,	in	addition	to	the	needs	of	training.
•	Young	athletes	may	undertake	restrictive	eating	to	reduce	weight	or	body	fat
and	this	can	result	in	insufficient	energy	consumption.	This	not	only	increases
fatigue	and	compromises	training	adaptations	and	performance	but	also	places
the	young	athlete	at	increased	risk	of	relative	energy	deficiency	in	sport	(RED-
S).
•	RED-S	compromises	reproductive,	immune	and	cardiac	function	as	well	as
bone	health,	with	some	of	these	negative	outcomes	irreversible.
•	Young	athletes	on	restrictive	diets	are	at	risk	for	micronutrient	deficiency,	as
requirements	for	nutrients	such	as	iron	and	calcium	are	increased	during
growth	and	development.
•	Eating	disorders,	and	restrictive	eating	that	progresses	to	disordered	eating,
pose	a	serious	risk	to	both	physical	and	mental	health.	Disordered	eating	can
be	triggered	by	negative	comments	about	weight	or	shape	or	the

be	triggered	by	negative	comments	about	weight	or	shape	or	the
recommendation	to	lose	weight	or	fat	without	support	from	a	qualified	health
professional.	Young	athletes	are	at	a	vulnerable	stage	of	life	and	a	positive
body	image	must	be	nurtured.
•	Limited	research	in	young	athletes	indicates	that	macronutrient	requirements
per	kilogram	of	body	weight	are	similar	to	those	for	adult	athletes,	although,	as
they	usually	train	and	compete	for	shorter	durations,	carbohydrate	intake
should	be	periodised	to	training	loads	and	strategies	such	as	glycogen	loading
are	not	needed	until	late	adolescence.
•	Although	young	athletes	had	initially	been	reported	to	thermoregulate	less
effectively	than	adults,	recent	research	indicates	they	are	not	at	significantly
greater	risk	of	exertional	heat	stress	when	compared	to	adults.	Many	of	the
strategies	used	for	hydration	and	competition	fuelling	can	also	be	applied	in
principle	to	young	athletes.
•	Ergogenic	aids,	while	popular	at	this	stage,	should	generally	be	avoided	and	a
‘food	first’	approach	encouraged.	A	key	strategy	for	sports	nutrition	at	this
phase	of	development	is	to	ensure	the	athlete	develops	knowledge,	skills	and
increasing	independence	in	selecting	a	healthy	diet.
REFERENCES
Aerenhouts,	D.,	Deriemaeker,	P.,	Hebbelinck,	M.	et	al.,	2011,	‘Energy	and
macronutrient	intake	in	adolescent	sprint	athletes:	A	follow-up	study’,
Journal	of	Sports	Science,
	vol.	29,	no.1,	pp.	73–82.
American	Academy	of	Pediatrics,	Council	on	Sports	Medicine	Fitness,	Council
on	School	Health	et	al.,	2011,	‘Policy	statement:	Climatic	heat	stress	and
exercising	children	and	adolescents’,	
Pediatrics,
	vol.	128,	no.	3,	pp.	e741–7.
Barkoukis,	V.,	Lazuras,	L.,	Lucidi,	F.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Nutritional	supplement	and
doping	use	in	sport:	Possible	underlying	social	cognitive	processes’,
Scandavian	Journal	of	Medical	Science	in	Sports,
	vol.	25,	no.	6,	pp.	e582–8.
Cobley,	S.,	Baker,	J.,	Wattie,	N.	et	al.,	2009,	‘Annual	age-grouping	and	athlete
development:	A	meta-analytical	review	of	relative	age	effects	in	sport’,
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	39,	no.	3,	pp.	235–56.
Croll,	J.K.,	Neumark-Sztainer,	D.,	Story,	M.	et	al.,	2006,	‘Adolescents	involved
in	weight-related	and	power	team	sports	have	better	eating	patterns	and
nutrient	intakes	than	non-sport-involved	adolescents’,	
Journal	of	American
Dietetic	Association,
	vol.	106,	no.	5,	pp.	709–17.
De	Souza,	M.J.,	Nattiv,	A.,	Joy,	E.	et	al.,	2014,	‘Female	Athlete	Triad	Coalition

Consensus	Statement	on	Treatment	and	Return	to	Play	of	the	Female	Athlete
Triad:	1st	International	Conference	held	in	San	Francisco,	California,	May
2012	and	2nd	International	Conference	held	in	Indianapolis,	Indiana,	May
2013’,	
British	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	48,	no.	4,	p.	289.
Desbrow,	B.	&	Leveritt,	M.,	2015,	‘Nutritional	issues	for	young	athletes:
Children	and	adolescents’,	in	Burke,	L.M.	&	Deakin,	V.	(eds),	
Clinical	Sports
Nutrition,
	5th	edn,	North	Ryde,	NSW:	McGraw-Hill	Education,	pp.	592–618.
Drinkwater,	B.L.,	Loucks,	A.B.,	Sherman,	R.T.	et	al.,	2005,	‘Position	Stand	on
the	female	athlete	triad’,	in	Sangenis,	P.	(ed.),	
IOC	Medical	Commission
Working	Group	Women	in	Sport
,	International	Olympic	Committee,
Lausanne,	Switzerland,	pp.	2–46
.
Erickson,	B.O.	&	Saltin,	B.,	1974,	‘Muscle	metabolism	in	boys	aged	11–16
years’,	
Acta	Pediatrica	Belgica,
	vol.	28,	pp.	257–65.
Haralambie,	G.,	1982,	‘Enzyme	activities	in	skeletal	muscle	of	13–15	years	old
adolescents’,	
Bulletin	Europeen	de	Physiopathologie	Respiratoire,
	vol.	18,
no.	1.	pp.	65–74.
Jeacocke,	N.	&	Beals,	K.A.,	2015,	‘Eating	disorders	and	disordered	eating	in
athletes’,	in	Burke,	L.M.	&	Deakin,	V.	(eds),	
Clinical	Sports	Nutrition,
	5th
edn,	North	Ryde,	NSW:	McGraw-Hill	Education,	pp.	213–232.
Loucks,	A.B.,	2003,	‘Introduction	to	menstrual	disturbances	in	athletes’,
Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	35,	pp.	1551–2.
Melin,	A.	&	Lundy,	B.,	2015,	‘Measuring	energy	availability’,	in	Burke,	L.M.	&
Deakin,	V.	(eds),	
Clinical	Sports	Nutrition
,	5th	edn,	North	Ryde,	NSW:
McGraw-Hill	Education,	pp.	146–157.
Melin,	A.,	Tornberg,	A.B.,	Skouby,	S.	et	al.,	2014,	‘The	LEAF	questionnaire:	A
screening	tool	for	the	identification	of	female	athletes	at	risk	for	the	female
athlete	triad’,	
British	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	48,	no.	7,	pp.	540–5.
Mountjoy,	M.,	Sundgot-Borgen,	J.,	Burke,	L.	et	al.,	2014,	‘The	IOC	consensus
statement:	Beyond	the	female	athlete	triad—Relative	energy	deficiency	in
sport	(RED-S)’,	
British	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine
,	vol.	48,	no.	7,	pp.	491–7.
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council	(NHMRC),	2006,	
Nutrient
reference	values	for	Australia	and	New	Zealand	including	recommended
dietary	intakes
,	Canberra,	ACT:	Commonwealth	of	Australia,	pp.	27–8,
retrieved	from	<
https://nhmrc.gov.au/sites/default/files/images/nutrient-
refererence-dietary-intakes.pdf
>.
Parnell,	J.A.,	Wiens,	K.P.	&	Erdman,	K.A.,	2016,	‘Dietary	intakes	and
supplement	use	in	pre-adolescent	and	adolescent	Canadian	athletes’,
Nutrients,
	vol.	8,	no.	9,	pp.	526.
Rowland,	T.,	2008,	‘Thermoregulation	during	exercise	in	the	heat	in	children:

Old	concepts	revisited’,	
Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
	vol.	105,	no.	2,	pp.
718–24.
Taylor	D.J.,	Kemp	G.J.,	Thompson	C.H.	&	Radda	G.K.,	1997,	‘Ageing:	Effects
on	oxidative	function	of	skeletal	muscle	
in	vivo
’,	in	Gellerich,	F.N.	&	Zierz,
S.	(eds),	
Detection	of	Mitochondrial	Diseases
.	
Developments	in	Molecular
and	Cellular	Biochemistry
,	vol.	21,	Boston,	MA:	Springer.

Masters	athletes
Janelle	Gifford	and	Helen	O’Connor
The	incidence	of	chronic	conditions	such	as	obesity,	Type	2	diabetes,
cardiovascular	disease	(CVD)	and	musculoskeletal	disorders	increases	with	age,
placing	added	pressure	on	health	and	societal	systems	for	their	management	and
treatment.	Adopting	or	maintaining	a	healthy	lifestyle	with	attention	to	good
nutrition	and	physical	activity	reduces	the	risk	of	developing	these	conditions
and	may	be	effective	in	their	management.	Older	people	who	participate	in
competition	or	systematic	training	can	be	defined	as	masters	(older,	veteran,
senior,	mature)	athletes.	They	may	have	been	active	all	their	lives,	or	have
become	active	to	improve	their	health	or	treat	one	or	more	lifestyle-related
conditions	(Gifford	
et	al.
	2015).	As	with	younger	athletes,	the	nutritional	needs
of	masters	athletes	vary	according	to	the	type,	duration	and	intensity	of	activity,
but	there	are	changes	in	the	underlying	physiological	processes	with	ageing	and
any	health	conditions	that	may	be	present	add	complexity	to	determining	needs.
Physical	activity	also	has	positive	effects	on	the	physiology	of	ageing,	which
may	have	beneficial	outcomes.	Each	masters	athlete	is,	therefore,	unique	in	their
physiological	profile	and	requirements.	This	chapter	provides	an	overview	of

nutrition	requirements	in	ageing	and	selected	chronic	health	conditions	in	older
athletes	and	addresses	the	use	of	supplements	in	this	group.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	define	the	term	‘masters	athlete’
•	identify	some	of	the	physiological	changes	that	may	affect	the	nutrition
requirements	of	masters	athletes
•	identify	general	changes	to	the	nutrition	requirements	with	age
•	describe	how	common	nutrition-related	chronic	conditions	may	affect	the
nutrition	requirements	of	masters	athletes
•	understand	the	role	of	supplements	in	the	diet	of	the	masters	athlete.
THE	CHANGING	NUTRITION	REQUIREMENTS
OF	THE	MASTERS	ATHLETE
The	definition	of	masters	athletes	usually	varies	according	to	sport;	competitions
generally	include	those	35	years	of	age	or	older,	but	there	are	younger
competitors	in	some	sports	(for	example,	gymnastics).	The	broad	age	range
means	that	basic	nutrition	requirements	can	vary	widely.	There	are	no	specific
sports	nutrition	guidelines	for	masters	athletes,	so	guidance	may	be	based	on
sport-specific	recommendations	for	younger	athletes	(Thomas	
et	al.
	2016),
physiological	changes	associated	with	ageing	(Reaburn	
et	al.
	2015)	and	general
dietary	guidelines	for	specific	age	groups	(NHMRC	2013).	This	section	provides
a	brief	overview	of	the	latter	two.
The	reduction	in	the	metabolically	active	fat-free	mass	(FFM),	including
muscle	tissue,	that	occurs	with	ageing,	along	with	a	potential	reduction	in
activity	or	training,	translates	to	a	decrease	in	energy	requirements	for	some
masters	athletes.	However,	the	energy	requirements	for	masters	athletes	will	be
higher	than	for	their	inactive	peers	due	to	their	higher	activity	levels.	If	the
amount	of	energy	they	consume	is	limited	(for	example,	to	achieve	a	particular
physique),	it	may	be	more	challenging	to	meet	macronutrient	requirements	for
activity,	particularly	for	carbohydrate.	For	example,	a	70	kilogram	male
endurance	athlete	exercising	at	moderate	to	high	intensity	would	require	6–10
g/kg	BM/day	of	carbohydrate	(Thomas	
et	al.
	2016),	equating	to	6720–11,200
kJ/day.	While	carbohydrate	uptake	may	not	be	affected	by	age	(Elahi	&	Muller

2000),	glycogen	storage	may	be	reduced,	particularly	in	novice	masters	athletes
(Meredith	
et	al.
	1989).	This	is	a	consideration	for	strategies,	such	as
carbohydrate	loading,	often	used	to	optimise	performance	in	endurance	events.
Similarly,	digestion	and	absorption	of	protein	does	not	appear	to	change
significantly	with	age;	however,	protein	requirements	increase	due	to	factors
such	as	a	decline	in	anabolic	response	to	protein	intake	and	disease	processes
(such	as	insulin	resistance)	(Bauer	
et	al.
	2013).	Masters	athletes	may	need	≥1.2
g/kg	BM/day	(Bauer	
et	al.
	2013)	depending	on	their	age,	and	35–40	grams	of
leucine-rich	protein	following	
muscle-damaging	exercise	rather	than	the	20
grams	usually	recommended	for	younger	athletes	(Doering	
et	al.
	2016).
However,	protein	intake	does	need	to	be	lower	for	those	with	impaired	kidney
function	(for	example,	as	a	result	of	diabetes).	As	with	younger	athletes,
attention	to	timing	of	intake	(in	relation	to	resistance	training	and	distribution	of
intake	over	the	day),	type	(for	example,	leucine-containing,	fast	acting)	and
quality	of	protein	are	important	considerations	in	nutrition	advice	to	support
exercise	for	masters	athletes	(see	
Chapters	3
	and	
5
	and	Bauer	
et	al.
	2013).	Food
sources	of	high	biological-value	protein,	such	as	lean	red	meat,	fish,	poultry	and
dairy	foods,	are	good	protein	choices	for	masters	athletes.
Changes	in	gut	function	can	affect	the	absorption	and	digestion	of	some
micronutrients,	increasing	requirements	for	calcium,	iron,	zinc	and	B	vitamins
(Reaburn	
et	al.
	2015).	However,	iron	requirements	do	reduce	for	women	after
menopause.	Reduced	skin	capacity	to	synthesise	vitamin	D,	reduced	immune
function,	change	in	liver	uptake	of	vitamin	A	and	increased	oxidative	stress	may
increase	the	need	for	vitamins	A,	B6,	C,	D,	E	and	zinc	(Reaburn	
et	al.
	2015).
Supplementation	may	occasionally	be	clinically	indicated;	however,	increased
needs	can	generally	be	met	with	a	balanced	diet,	particularly	with	the	increased
food	intake	needed	to	meet	the	demands	of	sport.
Physiological	changes	which	affect	fluid	needs	should	be	considered	in	advice
on	hydration	for	the	older	athlete.	Masters	athletes	may	have	a	decreased	thirst
perception,	reduced	kidney	function	and	altered	thermoregulatory	mechanisms
(Reaburn	
et	al.
	2015;	Soto-Quijano	2017).	Reduced	thirst	perception	may
increase	the	risk	of	hypohydration	via	reduced	fluid	intake;	however,	slower
water	and	sodium	excretion	may	increase	the	risk	of	hyponatraemia	and
hypertension	in	some	masters	athletes	(Soto-Quijano	2017).	This	latter	risk	is
potentially	greater	for	smaller	and	slower	masters	athletes	exercising	in	cool
conditions,	since	these	factors	lower	fluid	requirements.	For	masters	athletes
exercising	for	long	durations	and/or	in	the	heat,	commercial	carbohydrate-
electrolyte	drinks	(such	as	sports	drinks)	may	be	a	useful	fluid-replacement
choice	(Gifford	
et	al.
	2015).	However,	a	fluid-replacement	plan	developed	by	an

Accredited	Sports	Dietitian	and	tailored	to	the	fluid	and	electrolyte	losses	of	the
athlete	would	be	optimal	for	masters	athletes	given	their	potentially	altered
physiological	and	health	status.
General	guidelines	across	the	food	groups	are	the	same	for	individuals	across
the	19–50	year	age	group,	but	there	are	small	changes	for	both	men	and	women
from	the	age	of	51	(NHMRC	2013)	which	should	be	taken	into	account	in
nutrition	advice	given	to	masters	athletes.	Specifically,	in	the	grains	group,
recommended	serves	decrease	from	six	to	four	(51–70	years),	and	then	to	three
serves	for	women	over	70	years	old.	Recommended	serves	for	men	decrease
from	71	years	and	over	(from	six	to	4.5	serves).	Reduction	in	bone	health
frequently	occurs	with	age,	particularly	for	women;	foods	containing	calcium	are
beneficial	to	bone	health,	and	the	recommended	
serves	of	dairy	foods	and
alternatives	therefore	increase	from	51	years	(from	2.5	to	four	serves)	for	women
and	from	71	years	for	men	(from	2.5	to	3.5	serves).	There	are	minor	changes	in
the	lean	meat	and	alternatives	group	(for	women	and	men)	and	the	vegetables
group	(for	men	only).	Changes	to	the	recommended	servings	of	other	food
groups,	including	grains	and	dairy,	and	alternatives	are	important	for	masters
athletes,	since	these	foods	are	important	sources	of	carbohydrate,	protein	and
energy	for	physical	activity	and	recovery,	as	well	as	micronutrients	such	as	B
vitamins.	Balancing	these	foods	within	an	energy	budget	(kJ/day)	that	may	be
lower	due	to	the	ageing	process	may	seem	challenging;	however,	a	lower	energy
requirement	and	physiological	changes	for	micronutrients	has	been	taken	into
account	in	the	development	of	general	recommendations	on	food	groups.	When
energy	intake	is	more	restricted,	the	quality	of	the	diet	is	important	so	energy
dense,	nutrient-poor	foods	(such	as	cakes,	takeaway	foods	and	soft	drinks)
should	be	minimised.
CHRONIC	HEALTH	CONDITIONS	IN	OLDER
ATHLETES
While	the	limited	research	that	has	been	conducted	on	masters	athletes	suggests
they	may	be	healthier	than	their	non-active	counterparts,	masters	athletes	may
still	need	nutrition	advice	for	conditions	such	as	obesity,	Type	2	diabetes,	CVD
and	changes	in	musculoskeletal	function	that	also	aligns	with	performance	goals.
The	reduction	in	energy	requirements	with	ageing	can	lead	to	weight	gain	in
the	form	of	fat	mass	(FM).	There	is	no	single	dietary	approach	to	guarantee
weight	reduction;	however,	an	energy	deficit	created	by	reducing	energy	intake
and/or	increasing	energy	expenditure	is	necessary	to	affect	a	change	in	FM.	Low
glycaemic	index,	higher-fibre	carbohydrates	(such	as	wholegrains	and	fruits	and

glycaemic	index,	higher-fibre	carbohydrates	(such	as	wholegrains	and	fruits	and
vegetables)	and	protein	foods	(such	as	meat,	dairy	foods	and	nuts)	increase	the
feeling	of	fullness	and	can	be	incorporated	into	weight	management	plans.	For
masters	athletes,	periodising	energy	requirements	to	support	the	needs	of
training	and	competition,	and	reducing	energy	intake	on	rest	days	or	outside	of
competition,	could	accommodate	both	weight	reduction	and	performance	goals.
Increased	overall	and	abdominal	FM	increases	the	risk	of	developing	Type	2
diabetes	and	CVD.	There	is	a	further	increased	risk	of	CVD	in	people	with	Type
2	diabetes.	Dietary	management	of	Type	2	diabetes	usually	includes	weight
reduction,	management	of	carbohydrate	intake	and	strategies	to	reduce	the	risk
of	or	manage	concurrent	CVD.	For	many	masters	athletes,	carbohydrate	is	an
important	fuel	source,	particularly	for	moderate-to	high-intensity	training	and
events	that	last	longer	than	60–90	minutes	(Thomas	
et	al.
	2016).	Masters	athletes
with	Type	2	diabetes	are	advised	to	consume	good-quality	(low	glycaemic	index,
wholegrain,	higher	fibre	and	unrefined)	sources	of	carbohydrates,	such	as	dairy
foods,	wholegrains,	fruit	and	low	glycaemic	
index	starchy	vegetables	(such	as
legumes)	spread	over	the	day	and	mapped	around	training	and	competition
needs.	In	long	training	sessions	or	events,	there	may	be	a	need	for	more	refined
carbohydrate	sources	such	as	sports	(carbohydrate-electrolyte)	drinks	or	gels	to
assist	in	the	provision	of	sufficient	glucose	to	maintain	energy	and	blood
glucose.	Masters	athletes	who	take	glucose-lowering	medications	may	need	to
adjust	their	dosage	with	the	support	of	their	physician	or	diabetes	educator,	as
there	is	a	higher	risk	of	hypoglycaemia	with	exercise.
Reduction	in	weight,	attention	to	quality	of	dietary	fat	and	plant	sterols,
increase	in	soluble	fibre	and	reduction	in	sodium	are	frequently	used	strategies	to
manage	CVD	for	those	with	or	without	Type	2	diabetes.	While	fat	is	energy
dense,	inclusion	of	poly-and	monounsaturated	fats	(PUFAs	and	MUFAs)	and
reduction	of	saturated	fats	(as	in	butter,	palm	oil	and	many	processed	foods)	is
important	to	manage	blood	fats	and	other	CVD	risk	factors.	Sources	such	as	oily
fish,	nuts,	margarines	and	most	vegetable	oils	are	good	choices.	Changes	in
endothelial	function,	including	stiffening	of	artery	walls	with	age,	may
contribute	to	hypertension;	however,	active	individuals	are	more	likely	to	have
healthy	arterial	function.	Diets	that	have	plenty	of	vegetables	(such	as	the
Mediterranean	or	dietary	approaches	to	stop	hypertension	(DASH)	diets)	may
assist	with	lowering	blood	pressure	due	to	their	nitrate	content,	and	nitrates	may
also	enhance	performance	in	some	sports	(Lidder	&	Webb	2013).	Reduction	in
sodium	intake	to	manage	hypertension	may	conflict	with	sports	nutrition	advice
to	increase	sodium	intake	for	optimising	fluid	balance	and	should	be	managed	by
an	Accredited	Sports	Dietitian.

Two	common	changes	in	musculoskeletal	function	with	age	are	a	decline	in
bone	mineral	density	(BMD),	leading	to	osteopenia	or	osteoporosis,	and
development	of	osteoarthritis	(OA).	Postmenopausal	women	may	experience	a
deterioration	in	bone	health	leading	to	an	increased	fracture	risk	due	to	the
decline	in	circulation	of	the	protective	hormone,	oestrogen.	History	of
amenorrhoea	may	also	contribute	to	poor	bone	health	in	women;	however,
relative	energy	deficiency	in	sport	or	RED-S	(which	may	cause	amenorrhea)
may	also	affect	hormonal	balance	and	bone	health	in	men	(Mountjoy	
et	al.
2014).	BMD	increases	with	weight-bearing	activity	(walking,	running,	resistance
training),	so	masters	athletes	with	a	history	of	participation	in	cycling	and
swimming	may	have	lower	BMD	at	certain	sites	(for	example,	the	spine)	than
masters	athletes	with	a	history	of	sports	such	as	running.	Weight-bearing
exercise	and	inclusion	of	calcium	and	vitamin	D	according	to	population
recommendations	are	recommended	for	both	female	and	male	masters	athletes
for	optimal	bone	health.	With	respect	to	OA,	the	principal	nutrition	strategy	is
weight	reduction	to	reduce	the	load	on	affected	weight-bearing	joints.
Supplement	use	is	relatively	common	for	the	treatment	of	OA	but	is	often
ineffective.
Finally,	medications	taken	to	treat	chronic	disorders	may	impact	physiological
function,	performance	(Brun	2016)	and	nutrition	advice.	A	fuller	discussion	of
these,	and	nutrition	to	support	masters	athletes	with	chronic	nutrition-related
lifestyle	conditions,	can	be	found	in	previous	reviews	(Gifford	
et	al.
	2015;	Brun
2016).
SUPPLEMENTS	IN	OLDER	ATHLETES
Supplements	can	be	categorised	as	medical	supplements,	specific	performance
supplements	and	sports	foods	such	as	sports	drinks.	Supplement	use	is	common
among	athletes	at	all	levels;	however,	type	and	reasons	for	use	may	be	different
for	masters	athletes	versus	their	younger	counterparts.	This	section	focuses	on
medical	and	sports	performance	supplement	use	in	masters	athletes.	Masters
athletes	commonly	use	supplements	for	injury	or	other	health	reasons,	whereas
younger	athletes	are	more	likely	to	use	supplements	for	sports	performance
(Striegel	
et	al.
	2006).	This	pattern	may	partly	reflect	use	of	supplements	in	the
general	population.	The	last	Australian	Health	Survey	found	that	use	of	dietary
supplements	increased	with	age	and	was	more	common	in	females,	that	vitamin
and	mineral	preparations	were	the	most	common	dietary	supplement,	and	that
special	dietary	foods	such	as	sport	and	protein	beverages	and	powders	were

more	commonly	consumed	by	19-to	30-year-old	males	(Australian	Bureau	of
Statistics	2014).
Masters	athletes	may	take	medical	supplements	for	a	variety	of	health	reasons,
either	self-prescribed	or	recommended	by	a	health	professional	or	others.	Long-
chain	PUFAs	such	as	omega-3	fatty	acids	(in	fish	oils)	are	known	to	have	a
positive	effect	on	CVD	risk	factors;	however,	these	may	also	be	sourced	from
foods	such	as	oily	fish	(as	in	the	Mediterranean	diet).	Calcium	and	vitamin	D
supplementation	may	be	taken,	particularly	by	female	masters	athletes,	to
improve	bone	health;	however,	dietary	sources	of	these	nutrients	are	also
available.	Consuming	good	sources	of	calcium	(dairy	foods	and	calcium-
fortified	foods),	with	the	dose	divided	over	the	day	(more	in	the	evening),	will
help	to	maximise	absorption	(Gifford	
et	al.
	2015).	Vitamin	D	can	be	obtained
from	wild-caught	oily	fish,	liver,	eggs	and	fortified	foods;	however,	prudent
exposure	to	sunlight	and/or	medically	supervised	supplementation	may	be
necessary	to	obtain	adequate	vitamin	D	(Gifford	
et	al.
	2015).	Supplements	for
OA	are	some	of	the	most	investigated	in	older	populations.	Evidence	for	the	use
of	substances	with	anti-oxidant	activity	(vitamins	A,	C	and	E,	and	selenium),
fish	oil	supplements,	glucosamine	and	chondroitin	sulphate	is	not	consistent	or
conclusive	in	relation	to	the	management	of	OA	(Gifford	
et	al.
	2015).	Masters
athletes	may	take	vitamin	and	mineral	supplements	for	the	health	benefits	of
some	nutrients	within	a	restricted	energy	budget;	however,	overconsumption	of
some	nutrients	could	be	harmful.
There	are	few	studies	specifically	on	the	performance	effects	of	supplements
in	masters	athletes,	so	benefits	for	masters	athletes	are	generally	inferred	from
studies	in	younger	athletes.	However,	physiological	changes	in	nutrient
absorption	and	metabolism	in	masters	athletes	may	mean	some	supplements	do
not	have	the	same	effect	as	for	younger	athletes,	and	there	is	always	the	concern
of	harm	to	health	or	performance.	For	example,	caffeine	is	known	to	enhance
endurance	performance	in	younger	athletes	but	may	acutely	affect	blood
pressure,	which	could	be	problematic	for	masters	athletes	with	hypertension.	On
the	other	hand,	supplements	such	as	creatine	and	whey	protein	may	assist
functionally	in	masters	athletes,	limiting	muscle	loss	and	promoting	muscle	gain
in	older	individuals.	Competing	masters	athletes	should	be	cautious	about	taking
any	supplement,	as	some	products	may	contain	substances	banned	by	the	World
Anti-Doping	Agency	(WADA)	or	may	interact	with	medications.	While
checking	the	ingredients	list	of	the	product	may	seem	a	prudent	safeguard,
ingredients	may	be	omitted	from	the	list	or	the	product	may	be	inadvertently
contaminated	by	substances	during	manufacture.	Quality	assurance	programs	are
now	available	for	testing	products	and	some	products	will	carry	a	logo	as	proof

of	testing	(LGC	Group	1999–2018).
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
Nutrition	recommendations	for	the	general	population	consider	the	physiological
effects	of	ageing	and	should	be	used	as	a	basic	framework	to	map	dietary	plans
of	masters	athletes.	Guidance	for	specific	sporting	requirements	can	be	taken
from	those	of	younger	athletes,	while	considering	the	physiological	changes	that
occur	with	age	and	any	underlying	chronic	nutrition-related	conditions.
Key	messages
•	The	broad	age	range	of	masters	athletes	and	differences	in	general	health
means	that	basic	requirements	can	vary	widely.
•	There	are	no	specific	sports	nutrition	guidelines	for	masters	athletes.	Guidance
may	be	inferred	from	general	dietary	guidelines	for	specific	age	groups,
information	on	physiological	changes	with	ageing	and	sport-specific
recommendations	for	younger	athletes.
•	Potential	changes	in	physiology	and	physiological	function	in	the	masters
athlete	include	reduction	in	FFM,	changes	in	glycogen	storage	capacity,
reduction	in	absorption	and	digestion	of	some	micronutrients,	reduced	immune
function	and	increases	in	oxidative	stress.
•	General	population	guidelines	consider	physiological	changes	with	ageing	and
can	be	used	as	a	basic	framework	for	the	diet	of	masters	athletes.
•	Chronic	nutrition-related	lifestyle	conditions	may	alter	nutrition	advice	given	to
athletes;	however,	an	Accredited	Sports	Dietitian	can	assist	in	tailoring	advice
for	individual	athletes	around	changes	in	energy,	carbohydrate,	protein	and
other	nutrients	to	support	health	and	performance.
•	Masters	athletes	may	take	supplements	for	health	conditions	or	to	improve
performance.	Most	of	the	information	about	performance	supplements	is
inferred	from	studies	in	younger	athletes.	Professional	guidance	from	an
Accredited	Sports	Dietitian	who	understands	individual	clinical	and	sports
performance	needs	would	be	beneficial	to	assist	masters	athletes	in	considering
the	use	of	dietary	supplements.
REFERENCES

Australian	Bureau	of	Statistics,	2014,	
Australian	Health	Survey:	Nutrition	First
Results–Foods	and	Nutrients,	2011–12
	[Online],	Australian	Bureau	of
Statistics,
<
http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Lookup/by%20Subject/4364.0.55.007~2011-
12~Main%20Features~Key%20Findings~1
>,	accessed	29	January	2018.
Bauer,	J.,	Biolo,	G.,	Cederholm,	T.	et	al.,	2013,	‘Evidence-based
recommendations	for	optimal	dietary	protein	intake	in	older	people:	A
position	paper	from	the	PROT-AGE	study	group’,	
Journal	of	the	American
Medical	Directors	Association,
	vol.	14,	no.	8,	pp.	542–59.
Brun,	S.,	2016,	‘Clinical	considerations	for	the	ageing	athlete’,	
Australian
Family	Physician,
	vol.	45,	no.	7,	pp.	478–83.
Doering,	T.M.,	Reaburn,	P.R.,	Phillips,	S.M.	et	al.,	2016,	‘Postexercise	dietary
protein	strategies	to	maximize	skeletal	muscle	repair	and	remodeling	in
masters	endurance	athletes:	A	review’,	
International	Journal	of	Sport
Nutrition	&	Exercise	Metabolism,
	vol.	26,	no.	2,	pp.	168–78.
Elahi,	D.	&	Muller,	D.C.,	2000,	‘Carbohydrate	metabolism	in	the	elderly’,
European	Journal	of	Clinical	Nutrition,
	vol.	54,	suppl.	3,	pp.	S112–120.
Gifford,	J.,	O’Connor,	H.,	Honey,	A.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Nutrients,	health	and	chronic
disease	in	masters	athletes’,	in	Reaburn,	P.	(ed.),	
Nutrition	and	Performance
in	Masters	Athletes
,	Boca	Raton,	FL:	CRC	Press,	pp.	213–41.
LGC	Group,	1999–2018,	
Informed-Sport.com
	[Online],	<
www.informed-
sport.com/
>,	accessed	11	February	2018.
Lidder,	S.	&	Webb,	A.J.,	2013,	‘Vascular	effects	of	dietary	nitrate	(as	found	in
green	leafy	vegetables	and	beetroot)	via	the	nitrate-nitrite-nitric	oxide
pathway’,	
British	Journal	of	Clinical	Pharmacology
,	vol.	75,	no.	3,	pp.	677–
96.
Meredith,	C.N.,	Frontera,	W.R.,	Fisher,	E.C.	et	al.,	1989,	‘Peripheral	effects	of
endurance	training	in	young	and	old	subjects’,	
Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
vol.	66,	no.	6,	pp.	2844–9.
Mountjoy,	M.,	Sundgot-Borgen,	J.,	Burke,	L.	et	al.,	2014,	‘The	IOC	consensus
statement:	Beyond	the	female	athlete	triad—Relative	energy	deficiency	in
sport	(RED-S)’,	
British	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	48,	no.	7,	pp.	491–7.
National	Health	and	Medical	Research	Council	(NHMRC),	2013,	
Australian
Dietary	Guidelines
,	Canberra,	ACT:	Commonwealth	of	Australia.
Reaburn,	P.,	Doering,	T.,	&	Borges,	N.,	2015,	‘Nutrition	issues	for	the	masters
athlete’,	in	Burke,	L.	&	Deakin,	V.	(eds.),	
Clinical	Sports	Nutrition
,	5th	edn,
North	Ryde,	NSW:	McGraw-Hill	Education,	pp.	619-646.
Soto-Quijano,	D.A.,	2017,	‘The	competitive	senior	athlete’,	
Physical	Medicine
and	Rehabilitation	Clinics	of	North	America,
	vol.	28,	no.	4,	pp.	767–76.

Striegel,	H.,	Simon,	P.,	Wurster,	C.	et	al.,	2006,	‘The	use	of	nutritional
supplements	among	master	athletes’,	
International	Journal	of	Sports
Medicine,
	vol.	27,	no.	3,	pp.	236–41.
Thomas,	D.T.,	Erdman,	K.A.	&	Burke,	L.M.,	2016,	‘American	College	of	Sports
Medicine	Joint	Position	Statement.	Nutrition	and	Athletic	Performance’,
Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	48,	no.	3,	pp.	543–68.

Paralympic	athletes
Michelle	Minehan	and	Elizabeth	Broad
Paralympic	athletes	compete	with	physical,	visual	or	intellectual	impairments.	A
classification	system	allows	athletes	with	similar	functional	ability	to	compete
against	each	other	on	an	even	playing	field.	Since	the	first	Paralympic	Games	in
Rome	in	1960,	the	Paralympic	movement	has	developed	rapidly.	Summer	and
Winter	Paralympic	Games	now	occur	every	four	years	and	participation	is
consistently	increasing.	In	2016,	4333	athletes	from	159	countries	competed	at
the	Rio	Paralympic	Games.
Working	with	Paralympic	athletes	can	be	challenging	due	to	limited	research
and	potentially	complex	interplay	between	athletes’	clinical,	life	and	sporting
needs.	Modern	Paralympic	athletes	train	and	perform	at	an	elite	level	with
increasingly	competitive	standards,	with	some	events	won	by	fractions	of	a
second	or	by	a	single	point.	In	many	cases,	the	nutritional	needs	of	Paralympic
athletes	are	very	similar	to	able-bodied	athletes.	In	other	cases,	nutrition
recommendations	need	to	be	modified	to	suit	individual	circumstances.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES

LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	understand	the	range	of	physical,	visual	and	intellectual	impairments	that	may
affect	Paralympic	athletes
•	describe	key	factors	driving	the	need	for	modification	of	nutrition
recommendations	for	Paralympic	athletes
•	consider	how	sports	nutrition	recommendations	might	need	to	be	modified	for
different	types	of	Paralympic	athletes.
CLASSES	OF	PARALYMPIC	ATHLETES
To	compete	as	a	Paralympic	athlete,	at	least	one	of	the	impairments	in	
Table
20.1
	must	be	present.	Some	sports	cater	for	only	one	type	of	impairment,	while
others	have	classes	for	all	impairments.	For	example,	goalball	is	played
exclusively	by	athletes	who	are	visually	impaired,	whereas	athletics	offers	a	full
spectrum	of	events.	Within	each	sport,	athletes	are	classified	based	on	their	level
of	impairment.	For	example,	the	T42	category	in	athletics	is	for	track	athletes
with	a	‘lower	limb	affected	by	limb	deficiency,	leg	length	difference,	impaired
muscle	power	or	impaired	range	of	movement’.	The	goal	of	classification	is	to
create	an	even	playing	field	for	competition.	Discussion	and	recommendations	in
this	chapter	will	focus	on	the	needs	of	athletes	with	physical	impairments.
Paralympic	sports	vary	widely,	from	traditional	events	such	as	athletics	to
modified	events	such	as	boccia	and	goalball.	
Table	20.2
	summarises	the	diverse
mix	of	sports	contested	at	summer	and	winter	Paralympic	games.
RESEARCH	CHALLENGES
In	1993,	the	International	Paralympic	Committee	(IPC)	established	a	Sports
Science	Committee	to	advance	knowledge	of	Paralympic	sport	across	five
central	themes:	(1)	involving	the	academic	world,	(2)	athlete	health	and	safety,
(3)	classification,	(4)	socio-economic	determinants	of	participation	and	success,
and	(5)	Paralympic	athlete,	trainer	and	coach	education.	Research	activity	is
increasing;	to	date,	however,	limited	work	has	been	done	on	nutritional	issues
for	Paralympic	athletes.	Challenges	to	conducting	research	include:
•	large	variation	in	functional	capacity	of	athletes
•	athletes	dispersed	over	large	geographical	distances
•	medical	contraindications	to	participation	in	experimental	research	(for
example,	use	of	particular	medications)

example,	use	of	particular	medications)
•	small	athlete	pool,	which	makes	it	difficult	to	set	up	designs	with
randomisation	and	control	groups
•	small	number	of	scientists	actively	researching	Paralympic	athlete	issues
•	national	focus,	with	many	scientists	working	with	Paralympic	athletes	having	a
mandate	to	help	athletes	from	their	own	countries	win	medals,	limiting
opportunities	for	collaboration	and	sharing
•	limited	funding	opportunities	for	sport-related	research,	especially	Paralympic
sport.
Table	20.1.	Impairments	in	Paralympic	sports
Impairment
Explanation
Impaired
muscle
power
Reduced	force	generated	by	muscles	or	muscle	groups	in	one
limb	or	the	lower	half	of	the	body,	
e.g.
	spinal	cord	injury.
Impaired
passive	range
of	movement
Range	of	movement	in	one	or	more	joints	is	reduced
permanently.	Joints	that	can	move	beyond	the	average	range
of	motion,	joint	instability	and	acute	conditions	such	as
arthritis	are	not	considered	eligible	impairments.
Limb
deficiency
Total	or	partial	absence	of	bones	or	joints,	from	birth	or	as	a
consequence	of	trauma	or	illness.
Leg	length
difference
Bone	shortening	in	one	leg	from	birth	or	trauma.
Short	stature
Reduced	standing	height	due	to	abnormal	dimensions	of
bones	of	upper	and	lower	limbs	or	trunk,	
e.g.
	achondroplasia.
Hypertonia
Abnormal	increase	in	muscle	tension	and	a	reduced	ability	of
a	muscle	to	stretch,	which	can	result	from	injury,	illness	or	a
health	condition,	
e.g.
	cerebral	palsy.
Ataxia
Lack	of	coordination	of	muscle	movements	due	to	a
neurological	condition,	
e.g.
	cerebral	palsy.
Athetosis
Unbalanced,	uncontrolled	movements	and	a	difficulty	in
maintaining	a	symmetrical	posture,	
e.g.
	cerebral	palsy.
Visual
Vision	impacted	by	a	physical	or	neurological	impairment.

Visual
impairment
Vision	impacted	by	a	physical	or	neurological	impairment.
Intellectual
impairment
A	limitation	in	intellectual	functioning	and	adaptive
behaviour	as	expressed	in	conceptual,	social	and	practical
adaptive	skills,	which	originates	before	the	age	of	18.
Source:	Adapted	from	
www.paralympic.org/classification
	(accessed	June	2017).
Table	20.2.	Sports	contested	at	Paralympic	Games
Summer	Paralympic	Sports
Winter
Paralympic
Sports
Archery
Para	athletics
Badminton
Boccia
Canoe
Cycling
Equestrian
Football	5-a-side
Goalball
Judo
Para	powerlifting
Rowing
Shooting	Para
sport
Sitting	volleyball
Para	swimming
Table	tennis
Taekwondo
Triathlon
Wheelchair
basketball
Wheelchair
fencing
Wheelchair
rugby
Wheelchair
tennis
Para	alpine
skiing
Para	biathlon
Para	cross-
country
skiing
Para	ice	hockey
Para	snowboard
Wheelchair
curling
Source:	Adapted	from	
www.paralympic.org/sports
	(accessed	August	2018).
In	the	absence	of	a	large	Paralympic	specific	research	base,	it	is	necessary	to
extrapolate	knowledge	gleaned	from	studies	of	able-bodied	athletes.	Budding
researchers	are	encouraged	to	consider	projects	with	Paralympic	populations.
TRAINING	AGE
Paralympic	athletes	compete	across	a	wide	age	range.	The	youngest	athlete	at
the	Rio	Paralympics	in	2016	was	13	years	old,	while	the	oldest	was	73.	Many
Paralympic	athletes	follow	a	traditional	sports	career	path,	playing	a	sport	from	a
young	age	and	gradually	improving	until	they	compete	at	an	elite	level.	Others
take	up	Paralympic	sport	later	in	life,	after	acquiring	a	disability	due	to	traumatic
injury	or	disease	progression.
It	is	also	relatively	common	for	Paralympic	athletes	to	cross-over	between	and

It	is	also	relatively	common	for	Paralympic	athletes	to	cross-over	between	and
within	Paralympic	sports.	The	events	offered	at	major	events	such	as	world
championships	and	major	games	can	change	to	balance	the	total	number	of
events	and	according	to	participation	rates.	This	might	require	a	400-metre
runner	to	switch	to	1500	metres,	or	a	javelin	thrower	to	convert	to	shotput	in
order	to	gain	a	spot	on	a	national	team.	As	new	competition	opportunities	arise,
some	athletes	transfer	to	new	sports.	For	example,	Para-Triathlon	was	contested
at	the	Paralympic	Games	for	the	first	time	in	2016,	enticing	athletes	to	swap
from	sports	such	as	athletics,	cycling	and	swimming.	Australian	athlete	Dylan
Alcott	competed	in	both	wheelchair	basketball	and	wheelchair	tennis	at	different
Paralympic	Games.
Consequently,	athletes	can	compete	at	major	events	with	relatively	few	years
of	sports	specific	training	under	their	belt.	It	is	important	to	consider	the	training
‘age’	of	an	athlete	as	well	as	their	chronological	age.	Nutritional	needs	can	be
different	for	an	athlete	with	a	long	training	history	compared	to	an	athlete
rapidly	adapting	to	a	training	stimulus.	Altering	body	composition	might	be	a
lower	priority	while	an	athlete	focuses	on	building	up	sufficient	strength	and
stamina	to	cope	with	training.	It	can	be	easy	to	assume	that	older	athletes	have
acquired	significant	knowledge	about	how	to	manage	their	nutrition	intake	for
their	sport,	but	in	reality	they	might	be	very	new	to	the	sport	and	on	a	rapid
learning	trajectory.
ENERGY	NEEDS
Estimating	energy	expenditure	is	arguably	the	biggest	challenge	when	working
with	Paralympic	athletes.	The	physiological	demands	of	most	Paralympic	sports
are	unmeasured	and	predictive	equations	have	limited	applicability	to	many
Paralympic	athletes.	Direct	measurement	of	resting	metabolic	rate	(RMR)	via
indirect	calorimetry	is	useful	but	not	easily	accessible	for	all	athletes.	In	general,
predictive	equations	based	on	muscle	mass	(for	example,	the	Cunningham
equation)	are	more	useful	than	equations	based	
solely	on	height	and	weight
(such	as	the	Harris-Benedict	equation).	A	trial-and-error	process	based	on
estimated	energy	intake	and	weight	changes	may	be	needed	to	fully	understand
individual	energy	requirements.
Athletes	with	conditions	such	as	spina	bifida	and	cerebral	palsy	might	have
proportionally	higher	energy	requirements	due	to	inefficient	ambulation	and
conditions	such	as	athetosis	(involuntary	movements).	Some	individuals	who
walk	with	a	prosthesis	might	have	a	higher	energy	expenditure	due	to
inefficiency	of	movement	caused	by	gait	asymmetry.	In	most	cases,	this

inefficiency	of	movement	caused	by	gait	asymmetry.	In	most	cases,	this
additional	energy	cost	is	small	and	possibly	offset	by	factors	such	as	reduced
muscle	and	reduced	daily	activity.
Energy	expenditure	of	individuals	who	use	a	wheelchair	is	typically	reduced
compared	with	able-bodied	individuals.	as	daily	movements	use	a	smaller
muscle	mass.	RMR	is	typically	lower	(up	to	25	per	cent)	in	athletes	with	spinal
cord	injuries	(SCI)	due	to	non-functioning	muscle	and	subsequent	muscle
wasting.	The	impact	is	greater	the	higher	the	injury	to	the	spinal	cord	but	can
vary	according	to	how	complete	the	injury	to	the	spinal	cord	is	and	whether	the
individual	experiences	involuntary	muscle	spasms.
Like	able-bodied	athletes,	many	Paralympic	athletes	strive	to	keep	their
physique	lean.	A	reduced	RMR	means	they	can	have	a	limited	kilojoule	budget
and	have	to	prioritise	nutrient	density.	It	can	be	a	fine	balance	between
supporting	performance	goals	while	achieving	a	suitable	physique.
ENERGY	AVAILABILITY
Low	energy	availability	has	emerged	as	an	important	issue	for	athletes.	Energy
availability	refers	to	the	amount	of	energy	available	to	support	bodily	functions
once	the	cost	of	training	has	been	met.	If	energy	availability	is	low,	metabolism
can	slow,	leading	to	negative	hormonal	changes	and	reduced	bone	density
(Blauwet	
et	al.
	2017).	This	can	put	athletes	at	risk	of	injury,	illness	and
suboptimal	body	composition.
Currently,	little	is	known	about	the	prevalence	of	low	energy	availability	in
Paralympic	athletes.	While	diagnostic	criteria	are	available	for	able-bodied
athletes	(see	
Chapter	18
),	specific	criteria	for	different	types	of	Paralympic
athletes	are	currently	unavailable.	However,	there	is	reason	to	suspect	that	many
Paralympic	athletes	could	be	affected,	as	low	energy	availability	can	arise	from
both	intentional	(restricting	intake	to	maintain	a	lean	physique)	and	unintentional
(insufficient	opportunity	to	eat	all	required	food	or	lack	of	understanding	of	total
energy	requirements)	under-eating.
Athletes	who	do	not	weight-bear	typically	have	reduced	bone	density.	The
primary	cause	is	reduced	skeletal	loading	which	may	be	related	to	their	sport	(for
example,	swimming,	cycling)	and/or	their	disability	(for	example,	spinal	cord
injury,	amputation).	However,	the	influence	of	low	energy	availability	should
also	be	considered.
MACRONUTRIENT	AND	MICRONUTRIENT

NEEDS
Carbohydrate	requirements	are	primarily	influenced	by	the	type	of	training
completed.	As	with	able-bodied	athletes,	adequate	carbohydrate	availability	is
required	for	long	(>90	mins)	sessions	or	sessions	where	maximum	work	output
is	required	(such	as	repeated	sprints)	(see	
Chapter	10
).	Rates	of	glucose
utilisation	in	arm	cycling	and	wheelchair	events	are	largely	unknown.	However,
the	capacity	to	store	glycogen	in	the	arms	is	less	than	in	the	large	muscles	of	the
legs.	Athletes	competing	in	long	duration	arm	cycling	and	wheelchair	events
might	have	a	higher	need	for	carbohydrate	replacement	during	sessions	to
compensate	for	reduced	storage	capacity.	This	can	prove	challenging	as	athletes
with	SCI	typically	do	not	like	to	eat	or	drink	while	exercising.
The	protein	needs	of	Paralympic	athletes	have	not	been	documented.
However,	it	is	widely	accepted	that	able-bodied	athletes	have	higher	protein
requirements	than	sedentary	individuals,	as	additional	protein	is	required	for
repair,	recovery	and	muscle	growth.	In	general,	the	same	is	expected	for
Paralympic	athletes.	However,	it	is	expected	that	athletes	with	less	functional
muscle	(SCI,	amputees)	require	lower	absolute	amounts	of	protein	than	able-
bodied	athletes	but	likely	the	same	intake	relative	to	functional	muscle	mass.
Some	Paralympic	athletes	with	SCI	or	congenital	defects	have	altered	kidney
function,	which	may	require	modifications	to	protein	recommendations.	Timing
and	spread	of	high-quality	protein	is	as	important	for	Paralympic	athletes	as	for
other	athletes	and,	as	such,	optimal	intakes	need	to	be	tailored	to	each	individual.
Requirements	for	micronutrients	are	generally	expected	to	be	similar	for
Paralympic	athletes.	Athletes	with	restricted	intakes	due	to	low	energy	budgets
might	have	difficulty	meeting	needs	from	food	alone.	Athletes	with	SCI	might
be	at	increased	risk	of	vitamin	D	insufficiency	due	to	inadequate	diet,
anticonvulsant	medication	and	reduced	sunlight	exposure.	Supplementation
might	be	warranted	in	some	circumstances.	In	these	instances,	vitamin	D	levels
should	be	monitored	and	supplementation	discussed	with	a	doctor	or	dietitian.
HYDRATION	AND	HEAT	REGULATION
In	general,	Paralympic	athletes	are	encouraged	to	start	exercise	sessions	in	a
euhydrated	state	and	to	match	fluid	intake	to	sweat	losses	during	exercise.	Fluid
balance	monitoring	(weighing	before	and	after	exercise)	is	useful	to	track	fluid
losses	and	plan	for	individualised	fluid	replacement	(see	
Chapter	11
).
Fluid	requirements	for	athletes	with	SCI	need	additional	consideration.	The

ability	of	the	brain	to	control	body	temperature	through	dilation	of	blood	vessels
and	increased	sweating	is	altered	in	athletes	with	SCI	if	the	injury	is	at	or	above
the	T8	vertebrae	(top	half	of	the	spinal	column).	The	extent	of	the	impact
depends	on	the	severity	and	level	of	the	damage	to	the	spinal	cord.	The	higher
the	lesion,	the	
greater	the	impairment	to	thermoregulation.	Furthermore,	some
medications	(diuretics,	thyroid	medication,	muscle	relaxants)	can	hamper
thermoregulation.	Reduced	sweating	means	fluid	losses	are	often	less	for
athletes	with	SCI	but	it	also	means	that	capacity	to	cool	is	impaired;	hence,
messages	around	hydrating	effectively	may	need	to	be	modified,	with	more
focus	on	external	cooling	strategies.
Acclimatisation	is	important	when	athletes	are	competing	in	the	heat	(Price
2016).	Generally,	7–14	days	are	required	for	adaptation	to	exercise	in	the	heat.
However,	some	Paralympic	athletes	with	coexisting	medical	conditions	might
require	longer.	Paralympic	athletes	need	to	schedule	travel	to	allow	sufficient
time	for	acclimatisation	before	competing,	or	to	implement	acclimatisation
strategies	such	as	use	of	heat	chambers	before	departure.	The	potential	for
acclimatisation	in	athletes	with	high-level	SCI	is	undocumented.	These	athletes
might	consider	limiting	their	exposure	to	hot	environments	prior	to	competition.
Various	cooling	strategies,	such	as	water	immersion,	cooling	jackets,	ice
slushies	and	water	sprays,	have	been	tested	in	athlete	populations.	Current
evidence	is	mixed	as	to	the	effectiveness	of	these	strategies	in	Paralympic
athletes.	Athletes	with	SCI	can	also	have	impaired	shivering	mechanisms	and
hence	have	difficulty	warming	the	body	when	required.	A	balance	needs	to	be
found	to	deliver	the	optimal	level	of	cooling.
Many	athletes	with	SCI	have	disrupted	signals	from	the	brain	to	the	bladder
and	require	catheterisation	to	manage	bladder	function.	It	is	common	for	athletes
to	time	fluid	intake	carefully	around	competition	and	travel	to	manage
catheterisation	around	events.	Some	athletes	may	limit	fluid	intake	to	avoid
having	to	empty	catheter	bags	or	devices.	Catheterisation	practices	need	to	be
considered	when	planning	fluid	intake	strategies	and	conducting	hydration
assessment.	Measures	such	as	morning	urine	specific	gravity	(USG)	and	fluid
balance	might	require	modification	in	some	circumstances.	It	may	be	important
to	discuss	and	trial	new	strategies,	including	the	use	of	electrolytes,	with	athletes
to	find	the	optimal	balance	between	appropriate	hydration	(especially	for	travel)
to	minimise	risk	of	developing	a	urinary	tract	infection	and	better	support
training	and	recovery.
INJURY	AND	ILLNESS

Athletes	perform	best	when	they	consistently	complete	all	scheduled	training
sessions.	Hence,	a	goal	is	to	minimise	loss	of	training	due	to	injury	or	illness.
Some	evidence	suggests	injury	rates	are	higher	in	Paralympic	sports.	This	may
be	due	to	Paralympic	athletes	being	more	likely	to	have	coexisting	medical
conditions,	to	biomechanical	inefficiencies	that	increase	susceptibility	to	injury,
or	to	exposure	to	high	training	loads	before	they	are	physically	ready.	Poor
nutrition	and	low	energy	availability	may	also	increase	susceptibility	to	injuries
and	illness.
Athletes	who	use	catheterisation	to	manage	bladder	function	are	more
susceptible	to	urinary	tract	infections	(UTI).	Recurrent	UTI	can	result	in
significant	loss	of	training	days	over	a	season.	A	variety	of	catheterisation
systems	are	available	but	all	have	the	potential	to	expose	the	bladder	to	bacteria,
leading	to	UTI	(Compton	
et	al.
	2015).	Key	measures	to	prevent	UTI	include
maintenance	of	good	hygiene	when	using	catheters,	frequent	emptying	of
catheters	(every	3–4	hours)	and	sufficient	fluid	intake.	Cranberry	juice	is	a
popular	preventative	measure	for	UTIs,	although	evidence	for	efficacy	is
inconsistent.
BODY	COMPOSITION	ASSESSMENT
Many	athletes	find	it	useful	to	monitor	body	composition	over	time	as	it
provides	useful	feedback	on	the	effectiveness	of	training	and	nutritional	regimes.
Surface	anthropometry	(skinfolds)	and	dual	energy	X-ray	absorptiometry	(DXA)
are	the	most	common	methods	for	assessing	body	composition	in	athletes.
However,	other	methods	are	also	available	and	it	is	important	to	understand	the
assumptions	and	limitations	that	influence	their	validity.	It	is	often	necessary	to
modify	techniques	for	Paralympic	athletes.	For	example,	according	to	the
International	Society	for	Advancement	of	Kinanthropometry	(ISAK),	skinfolds
are	routinely	taken	on	the	right	side	of	the	body.	However,	it	is	more	relevant	to
measure	the	left	side	if	an	athlete	has	hemiplegia	(weakness)	or	is	missing	a	limb
on	the	right	side.	The	standard	ISAK	skinfold	protocol	involves	measures	at
seven	or	eight	body	sites.	However,	for	athletes	with	SCI,	measures	are	often
limited	to	the	biceps,	triceps,	subscapular	and	abdominal	sites.
DXA	is	useful	for	measuring	body	fat	and	lean	tissue	changes	over	time	in
athletes	with	a	variety	of	physical	impairments.	There	is	little	value	in
comparing	data	to	normative	data	derived	from	able-bodied	reference	groups;
rather,	the	data	obtained	can	be	useful	for	monitoring	changes	within	the
Paralympic	athlete	over	time.	It	is	often	necessary	to	adjust	standard	positioning
to	obtain	the	most	useful	information	for	Paralympic	athletes.	For	example,	in

to	obtain	the	most	useful	information	for	Paralympic	athletes.	For	example,	in
standard	DXA	protocols	athletes	lie	on	their	back	in	standard	anatomical
position	with	legs	straight	and	arms	alongside	the	body.	Some	Paralympic
athletes	cannot	lie	in	standard	position	within	the	scanning	area.	While	it	is
possible	to	customise	positioning	and	analysis	of	DXA	scans,	these	adjustments
are	yet	to	be	validated.
GASTROINTESTINAL	ISSUES
Athletes	with	SCI,	congenital	abnormalities	of	the	gastrointestinal	tract,	a	history
of	gastrointestinal	injury	or	medication	use	are	more	likely	to	experience
gastrointestinal	issues	than	other	Paralympic	athletes.	Some	athletes	have	altered
transit	time	(for	example,	SCI)	while	others	have	various	food	intolerances	or
food	aversions.	Many	
athletes	who	compete	in	wheelchairs	avoid	eating	before
training	or	competing	as	the	bent	position	in	the	chair	is	uncomfortable	when	the
stomach	is	full.
As	such,	it	is	important	to	work	with	Paralympic	athletes	to	gain	a	full
understanding	of	gastrointestinal	issues	when	providing	dietary	advice.	The
timing	of	food	and	fluid	intake	around	sessions	typically	needs	to	be	adjusted
according	to	individual	tolerance.	Some	athletes	need	to	focus	on	eating	more	in
the	later	part	of	the	day	to	compensate	for	restricted	intake	in	the	earlier	part	of
the	day;	this	is	contradictory	to	most	nutrition	guidelines.	Experimentation	with
quickly	absorbed	forms	of	carbohydrate	such	as	gels	and	confectionery	is	often
needed.	This	can	be	challenging	when	energy	budget	is	limited.
MEDICAL	ISSUES	AND	MEDICATION
Many	Paralympic	athletes	have	coexisting	medical	conditions	such	as	epilepsy,
high	blood	pressure,	kidney	impairment,	osteoporosis,	reflux,	diabetes	and	heart
conditions	(Johnson	
et	al.
	2014).	Some	athletes	require	multiple	medications.
The	impact	of	medical	conditions	and	medications	needs	to	be	considered	when
providing	nutrition	advice.	Some	Paralympic	athletes	have	a	very	poor
understanding	of	their	medical	conditions,	so	it	is	useful	to	work	closely	with
other	support	staff	specifically	trained	in	managing	these	clinical	conditions—
doctors,	dietitians,	physiologists	and	physiotherapists—to	gain	an	accurate
understanding.
SUPPLEMENTS

A	recent	report	utilising	data	from	399	athletes	from	21	different	nationalities
and	28	different	sports	indicated	that	the	frequency	of	supplement	use	is	similar
in	Paralympic	and	able-bodied	athlete	populations	(Graham	
et	al.
	2014).
Paralympic	athletes	in	this	survey	identified	using	a	range	of	products,	including
nutritional	supplements	(vitamins,	minerals)	sports	foods	(gels,	protein	powders,
sports	drinks)	and	ergogenic	aids	(such	as	caffeine	and	bicarbonate).
All	athletes,	including	Paralympic	athletes,	are	encouraged	to	meet	their
nutrient	requirements	from	food.	However,	there	might	be	circumstances	in
which	nutritional	supplementation	is	warranted.	For	example,	some	athletes
might	need	to	supplement	key	micronutrients	if	their	energy	budget	does	not
allow	for	all	nutrients	to	be	consumed	from	food	choices.
Minimal	research	has	been	conducted	on	the	effect	of	ergogenic	aids	on
Paralympic	athletes.	However,	it	is	reasonable	to	assume	that,	in	the	absence	of
contradictory	medical	conditions	or	functionality,	similar	ergogenic	effects	are
likely.	When	advising	on	use	of	supplements,	potential	interaction	with	any
medication	and	health	conditions	needs	to	be	considered.	Timing	and	doses
might	need	to	be	adjusted	if	gastrointestinal	
function	is	altered	or	muscle	mass	is
significantly	lower	than	in	able-bodied	athletes.	It	is	wise	to	test	individual
tolerance	and	response	during	training	sessions	before	use	in	competition.
TRAVEL
Travel	is	an	inevitable	and	uncomfortable	experience	for	all	athletes	(see	
Chapter
21
).	However,	some	Paralympic	athletes	face	additional	challenges.	Airlines
typically	ask	people	with	impaired	mobility	to	board	planes	first	and	exit	planes
last.	This	can	substantially	increase	time	spent	sitting	on	the	plane.	Additionally,
some	athletes	choose	to	limit	fluid	intake	to	avoid	having	to	use	the	toilet	or
empty	a	catheter	during	a	flight.	It	is	useful	to	prepare	a	fluid	intake	plan	for
flights	to	minimise	dehydration.
Large	events	such	as	Paralympic	Games	and	world	championships	typically
cater	well	for	athletes	with	myriad	disabilities.	However,	modification	might	be
needed	when	eating	at	venues	unfamiliar	with	Paralympic	athletes.	Trays	are
useful	for	athletes	in	wheelchairs	when	eating	buffet-style,	although	they	are	not
always	available.	Food	serveries	are	typically	at	an	inconvenient	height	for
people	in	wheelchairs;	this	might	cause	some	athletes	to	avoid	dishes	towards
the	back	of	the	servery,	as	they	are	difficult	to	access.	Support	staff	need	to	look
out	for	challenges	and	request	modifications	if	required	(for	example,	a
temporary	servery	set	up	on	a	lower	table,	or	pre-plated	meals).	As	some
Paralympic	athletes	need	to	modify	eating	times	according	to	their

Paralympic	athletes	need	to	modify	eating	times	according	to	their
gastrointestinal	tolerance,	provision	of	takeaway	containers	is	useful	to	allow
flexibility	for	when	meals	are	consumed.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	have	an	awareness	of	the	athlete	diversity
in	Paralympic	sports.	Paralympic	athletes	compete	in	a	wide	range	of	events	and
with	wide-ranging	functionality.	Some	Paralympic	athletes	have	very	similar
needs	to	athletes	competing	in	corresponding	able-bodied	events.	Others	require
bespoke	modifications	to	suit	their	individual	characteristics.	As	research
regarding	the	nutritional	requirements	of	Paralympic	athletes	is	limited,	an
individual	approach	to	nutrition	planning	should	be	used	along	with	a	trial	and
modification	process	to	determine	optimal	nutrition	support.
Key	messages
•	Paralympic	athletes	compete	in	a	diverse	mix	of	sports	and	have	diverse
physiological	requirements—there	are	no	generic	nutrition	recommendations
for	Paralympic	athletes.
•	Limited	research	is	available	regarding	nutritional	requirements	for	Paralympic
athletes.
•	Athletes	with	SCI	are	more	likely	to	have	altered	heat	regulation,
gastrointestinal	tolerance	and	increased	illness	risk	compared	to	other
Paralympic	athletes.
•	Theoretically,	ergogenic	aids	should	have	similar	effects	in	Paralympic
athletes;	however,	individual	testing	and	adjustment	is	needed.
•	Sports	dietitians	working	with	Paralympic	athletes	need	to	work	closely	with
other	support	staff	(medicine,	physiotherapy,	physiology)	to	fully	understand
the	requirements	of	each	individual.
REFERENCES
Blauwet,	C.A.,	Brook,	E.M.,	Tenforde,	A.S.	et	al.,	2017,	‘Low	energy
availability,	menstrual	dysfunction,	and	low	bone	mineral	density	in
individuals	with	a	disability:	implications	for	the	para	athlete	population’,
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	47,	no.	9,	pp.	1697–708.
Compton,	S.,	Trease,	L.,	Cunningham,	C.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Australian	Institute	of

Sport	and	the	Australian	Paralympic	Committee	position	statement:	Urinary
tract	infection	in	spinal	cord	injured	athletes’,	
British	Journal	of	Sports
Medicine,
	vol.	49,	no.	19,	pp.	1236–40.
Graham,	T.,	Perret,	C.,	Crosland,	J.	et	al.,	2014,	
Nutritional	Supplement	Habits
and	Perceptions	of	Disabled	Athletes
,	World	Anti-Doping	Agency,
<
https://www.wada-ama.org/sites/default/files/resources/files/TOLFREY-
Final-2012-EN.pdf
>,	accessed	28	June	2017.
Johnson,	B.F.,	Mushett,	C.A.,	Richter,	D.O.	et	al.,	2014,	
Sport	for	Athletes	with
Physical	Disabilities:	Injuries	and	Medical	Issues
,	USA:	BlazeSports
America,	<
http://www.blazesports.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/02/BSA-
Injuries-and-Medical-Issues-Manual.pdf
>,	accessed	28	June	2017.
Price,	M.J.,	2016,	‘Preparation	of	Paralympic	athletes:	Environmental	concerns
and	heat	acclimation’,	
Frontiers	in	Physiology,
	vol.	6,	p.	415.

Travelling	athletes
Shona	L.	Halson,	Georgia	Romyn	and	Michelle	Cort
Most	athletes	are	required	to	undertake	significant	travel	for	competition.	This
can	have	consequences	for	both	physiological	and	psychological	status	and	has
the	potential	to	impair	performance.	Nutrition	is	one	aspect	of	travel	which
requires	careful	planning	to	minimise	the	risk	of	illness	and	to	ensure	nutritional
goals	are	met.	Obtaining	adequate	sleep	when	travelling	(especially	if	crossing
multiple	time	zones)	can	also	be	problematic	for	many	athletes,	and	there	is
emerging	evidence	that	nutrition	may	influence	sleep	quality	and	quantity	and,
therefore,	may	be	useful	to	the	travelling	athlete.	The	influence	of	carbohydrate,
protein	(tryptophan),	alcohol	and	caffeine	may	be	important	to	consider	when
managing	travel	and	jet	lag	in	athletes.	This	chapter	will	discuss	the	key
nutrition-related	considerations	for	travel,	including	jet	lag,	training	and
competition	schedule,	accommodation	and	meal	arrangements,	availability	of
food	and	drink	at	destination,	hygiene	issues,	climate	and	venue	facilities.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES

Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	understand	the	causes	and	consequences	of	jet	lag
•	identify	strategies	to	minimise	travel	fatigue	and	jet	lag
•	plan,	prepare	and	execute	effective	travel	nutrition
•	identify	some	of	the	nutritional	issues	athletes	face	when	travelling
•	understand	why	sleep	is	important	to	athletes
•	identify	strategies	to	enhance	sleep
•	understand	how	nutrition	may	influence	sleep.
JET	LAG	AND	THE	IMPACT	OF	TRAVEL	ON
PERFORMANCE
The	competition	and	training	schedules	of	elite	athletes	often	require	them	to
undertake	frequent	long-haul	air	travel	that	negatively	affects	the	
sleep–wake
cycle
.	Accordingly,	air	travel	can	interrupt	training	schedules	and	increase	the
physiological	and	perceptual	loads	of	athletes	prior	to	competition	(Fowler	
et	al.
2014).	With	performance	often	required	within	days	of	arrival	in	a	new	time
zone,	it	is	important	to	develop	a	plan	to	combat	the	detrimental	effects	of	sleep
disruption,	
circadian	process	desynchronisation
	and	travel	fatigue	so	athletes
can	return	to	optimal	performance	as	soon	as	possible.	This	will	reduce	the	days
lost	to	training	following	travel	and	may	help	to	optimise	competition	readiness
and	performance.
Sleep–wake	cycle
Also	known	as	circadian	rhythm,	a	daily	pattern	that	determines	when	it	is	time	to	sleep	and	when	it	is
time	to	be	awake.
Circadian	process	desynchronisation
Disruption	of	the	sleep–wake	cycle/	circadian	rhythm.
Jet	lag
	is	associated	with	rapid	travel	across	time	zones,	such	as	flying	east	to
west	or	west	to	east	on	an	aeroplane	(transmeridian	travel).	Circadian	processes
influence	the	physiological,	mental	and	behavioural	changes	that	occur	daily	on
approximately	24-hour	cycles.	When	circadian	processes	do	not	correspond	with
the	external	environment	jet	lag	symptoms	occur,	and	the	severity	of	jet	lag
increases	with	the	number	of	time	zones	crossed.	The	primary	symptoms	of	jet

lag	are	difficulty	initiating	and	maintaining	sleep	at	night,	daytime	sleepiness,
impaired	physical	and	mental	performance,	poor	mood,	appetite	suppression	and
gastrointestinal	complaints	(Waterhouse	
et	al.
	2004).
Jet	lag
A	physiological	condition	experienced	when	circadian	processes	do	not	correspond	with	the	new	external
environment.
Jet	lag	is	not	experienced	with	north-to-south	or	south-to-north	long-haul
travel	as	no	time	zones	are	crossed.	However,	this	travel	still	involves	exposure
to	mild	
hypoxia
,	cabin	noise	and	cramped	and	uncomfortable	conditions;	some
athletes	may	also	experience	anxiety	(Youngstedt	&	O’Connor	1999).	This	leads
to	travel	fatigue	and	sleep	disruption,	contributing	to	decreases	in	aerobic
performance,	reaction	time,	concentration,	alertness,	skill	acquisition,	mood,
immune	function,	tissue	regeneration	and	appetite	regulation	(Youngstedt	&
O’Connor	1999).	A	study	of	northbound	long-haul	travel	on	sleep	quality	and
subjective	jet	lag	in	professional	
soccer	players	found	that	sleep	was	disrupted
due	to	flight	and	competition	scheduling,	causing	travel	fatigue	(Fowler	
et	al.
2015).
Hypoxia
Deficiency	in	the	amount	of	oxygen	reaching	the	tissues.
MINIMISING	TRAVEL	STRESS
Jet	lag	and	travel	fatigue	are	of	concern	to	athletes	as	they	can	compromise
physical	and	cognitive	performance.	Sleep	hygiene	recommendations	before,
during	and	after	the	flight	may	help	alleviate	the	negative	effects	of	travel	on
sleep.	Under	normal	circumstances,	internal	circadian	processes	respond	to
external	cues	from	the	outside	environment.	These	cues	are	called	
zeitgebers
and	the	most	influential	is	sunlight	and	the	light–dark	cycle.	Food,	exercise,
sleep	and	pharmacological	interventions	that	mimic	hormones	involved	in
circadian	processes	are	also	zeitgebers	but	are	generally	weaker	than	sunlight.

Zeitgebers
External	or	environmental	cues	which	synchronises	our	biological	rhythms	to	the	Earth’s	24-hour	light–
dark	cycle.
One	potential	strategy	to	minimise	jet	lag	is	to	use	exposure	to,	and	avoidance
of,	bright	light.	While	natural	sunlight	has	powerful	phase-shifting	properties,
some	laboratory-based	research	suggests	that	correct	timing	of	artificial/indoor
light	exposure	and	avoidance	can	also	be	used	to	facilitate	adaptation	to	a	new
time	zone	(Fowler	
et	al.
	2015).	More	research	on	the	impact	of	scheduled
artificial	bright	light	exposure	and	avoidance	on	circadian	process
resynchronisation	following	long-haul	aeroplane	travel	is	required.
Melatonin	is	a	hormone	produced	by	the	body	at	night,	or	under	dark
conditions,	that	signals	night-time	to	the	body.	In	normal	circumstances,
melatonin	is	secreted	into	the	bloodstream	between	about	9	p.m.	and	7	a.m.
(Waterhouse	
et	al.
	2004),	in	line	with	the	timing	of	the	innate	drive	to	sleep.
Melatonin	has	several	effects	on	the	body,	including	dilation	of	blood	vessels	on
the	skin,	which	increases	heat	loss	from	the	body,	subsequently	causing	the	drop
in	core	body	temperature	required	for	sleep	(Waterhouse	
et	al.
	2004).	In	the
absence	of	melatonin,	heat	loss	and	the	subsequent	drop	in	core	body
temperature	are	affected	and	sleep	onset	and	quality	will	be	negatively	impacted.
Normally,	melatonin	is	released	in	the	body	from	approximately	two	hours
before	bedtime,	provided	there	is	limited	light	exposure	at	this	time.	When
circadian	processes	are	desynchronised	with	the	external	environment,	melatonin
secretion	is	incorrectly	timed;	this	is	one	of	the	primary	reasons	for	sleep
disruption	when	jet-lagged.	Therefore,	melatonin	may	be	used	to	treat	jet	lag,
although	the	timing	of	ingestion	is	highly	specific	and	individual.	The	dose	of
melatonin	is	also	highly	individual	and,	if	the	dose	is	too	high,	melatonin	may
remain	in	the	bloodstream	too	long	and	act	at	the	wrong	time.	Additionally,
melatonin	should	be	administered	with	caution	in	athletes	as	it	is	considered	a
medication,	can	only	be	prescribed	by	a	doctor,	is	not	readily	available,	and,	in
many	cases,	must	be	provided	by	a	compound	pharmacist.
It	has	been	found	that	exercise	lasting	one	to	three	hours	can	induce
significant	circadian	phase	shifts.	Time	of	day	at	which	exercise	is	completed,
intensity	of	exercise,	lighting	conditions	and	age	and	gender	of	participants	are
complicating	factors.	Furthermore,	most	previous	research	in	this	area	has	been
conducted	on	elderly	patients,	a	population	vastly	different	to	elite	athletes.
However	since	athletes	are	highly	likely	to	engage	in	training	before	and	after
travel,	there	is	potential	to	schedule	this	training	at	the	times	most	likely	to

correctly	adjust	circadian	processes.
The	strategies	below	may	be	used	to	minimise	travel	fatigue.
Box	21.1:	Strategies	to	minimise	travel	fatigue
BEFORE	TRAVEL
Sleep
•	Sleep	should	be	prioritised.
•	Aim	for	at	least	eight	hours	of	sleep	per	night	in	the	two	weeks	leading	up
to	travel.
•	Bedtime	and	wake	time	should	be	kept	consistent	to	give	the	best
opportunity	for	good-quality	sleep.
•	Do	not	stay	awake	late	at	night	before	an	early	morning	flight.
Planning
•	Avoid	intense	training	the	day	before	and	the	day	of	travel	to	minimise
muscle	damage	before	flying.
•	If	possible,	schedule	long-haul	flights	to	arrive	at	the	destination	late	in
the	day	so	that	the	athlete	does	not	need	to	stay	awake	all	day	before
sleeping	overnight.
•	Book	an	aisle	row	or	exit	row	to	give	more	space	and	comfort,	especially
if	the	athlete	is	tall.
•	Pack	what	is	needed	to	be	comfortable,	such	as	a	travel	pillow,	eye	mask,
earplugs,	noise-cancelling	headphones	and	blankets.
•	Plan	to	bring	entertainment.
•	Pack	as	much	as	you	can	in	advance	and	try	not	to	leave	this	to	the	last
minute.
Nutrition
•	Fill	your	water	bottle	(after	boarding)	and	drink	enough	water	to	stay
hydrated.

hydrated.
•	Does	travel	food	meet	your	nutritional	needs?	Pack	your	own	food	for
your	flight	and	for	the	duration	of	your	trip	if	required.	Choose	foods	that
fit	with	your	nutrition	plan	for	the	current	
phase	of	training	and
competition;	be	mindful	of	carbohydrate	and	protein	foods	to	maintain
requirements.
Compression
•	Put	medical-grade	compression	socks	on	before	the	flight	and	wear	them
during	the	flight	and	for	as	long	as	possible	after	the	flight.	Compression
socks	reduce	swelling	and	promote	blood	flow,	reducing	the	risk	of
developing	deep-vein	thrombosis	(DVT)	and	helping	you	feel	better	on
arrival.
•	DO	NOT	wear	compression	tights	or	tops,	as	these	will	not	stop	swelling
in	the	hands	and	feet.
DURING	TRAVEL
Airport	and	flight
•	Arrive	with	plenty	of	time	to	check	in,	get	through	security	and	board
without	rushing.
•	At	checkin,	ask	for	the	seat	you	want	(aisle,	window,	exit	row).
•	Once	on	the	plane,	ask	if	there	are	any	spare	seats	or	rows	you	can	move
to	to	stretch	out	after	take-off.
•	Ask	when	meals	will	be	served	so	you	can	plan	when	you	will	sleep.
•	Adjust	your	watch	to	the	destination	time.
Sleep
•	Sleep	as	much	as	possible.	Spread	out	where	possible	and	get	comfortable.
Use	ear	plugs,	noise-cancelling	headphones,	eye	shades	and	neck	pillows
to	improve	sleep	and	comfort	during	travel.
•	ANY	sleep/rest	is	beneficial!	Take	what	you	can	get.

Aeroplane	exercises
•	Athletes	may	suffer	from	DVT	due	to	injuries,	bruises	and	damaged
muscles.
•	Complete	stretching,	self-massage	and	light	exercises	every	1–2	hours
(when	awake)	to	increase	blood	flow	and	promote	relaxation.
Hydration	and	nutrition
•	Drink	enough	fluid	to	stay	hydrated.	If	possible,	eat	meals	at	the	time	you
will	at	the	destination.	To	help	avoid	disruption	to	sleep,	avoid	large
amounts	of	caffeine	(<1	cup	of	coffee	per	four	hours)	and	stop	drinking
coffee,	cola	and	other	caffeinated	beverages	before	4	p.m.
AFTER	TRAVEL
Compression
•	Wear	your	compression	socks	for	at	least	1–2	hours	(or	as	long	as
possible)	after	the	flight.	You	may	remove	compression	socks	to	do
hydrotherapy	or	before	sleeping	at	night.
Hydrotherapy
•	If	possible,	use	contrast	showers	(alternate	between	hot	and	cold	water)	or
ideally	a	pool	or	beach	hydrotherapy	session	on	arrival	to	help	reduce
physiological	stress.
Nutrition
•	Avoid	caffeine	in	the	afternoon	and	evening.
The	strategies	listed	below	can	be	used	to	minimise	jet	lag.

Box	21.2:	Strategies	to	minimise	the	effects	of	jet	lag
SLEEP
•	Prioritise	sleep	at	night	in	the	new	time	zone.
•	Get	to	bed	early	and,	if	possible,	sleep	in	the	following	morning.
•	If	you	arrive	early	in	the	day,	and	feel	you	will	not	make	it	through	the
day	without	sleep,	have	a	short	(<90	minute)	nap	in	the	early	afternoon.
LIGHT	EXPOSURE
•	Get	outside	and	seek	daylight	in	the	new	time	zone.	This	can	be	coupled
with	some	light	exercise	and	stretching.
NUTRITION
•	Eat	meals	at	the	usual	time	of	day.
EXERCISE
•	If	possible,	train	at	the	time	of	day	that	you	will	be	competing.
NUTRITION	AND	TRAVEL
Travel	can	heighten	the	risk	of	an	athlete	being	unable	to	meet	their	nutrition
goals	or	developing	an	illness.	Unfortunately,	this	is	often	at	a	time	when	the
outcomes	of	training	preparation	and	competition	performance	are	of	greatest
importance.	Athletes	should	seek	personalised	advice,	as	nutrition
recommendations	vary	and	will	be	specific	to	each	destination	and	athlete.
Table	21.1.	An	example	of	a	travel	nutrition	risk	management	audit
Risk
Risk
management
Further
strategy
Level	of
risk?
Level	of	risk
with

strategy	in
place?
development
required?
strategy	in
place?
Example:
Unknown
food	supply
on	flight
Call	airline
and	discuss
food
provided.
Plan	to	take
own	snacks
on	board	if
airline
cannot
provide
special	meal.
Moderate
Low
Planning
Preparation	prior	to	departure	can	mitigate	many	of	these	risks	to	performance
and	health.	One	strategy	that	is	useful	for	athletes	and	support	staff	to	undertake
well	in	advance	of	departure	is	a	travel	nutrition	‘risk	management	audit’.
Several	questions	must	be	answered	within	this	audit,	the	first	being,	what	are
the	risks	to	successful	performance	at	the	destination?	Each	‘risk’	then	needs	to
be	further	explored	and	a	risk	management	strategy	put	in	place.	
Table	21.1
shows	an	example	of	the	audit	process.
It	is	often	useful	to	talk	to	other	athletes,	staff	and	coaches	who	have	travelled
to	the	destination	previously.	Their	experiences	can	highlight	issues	that	need	to
be	considered	during	planning.
A	timeline	for	strategy	development	and	execution,	along	with	allocation	of
roles	and	responsibilities,	then	needs	to	be	developed.
Considerations	that	should	be	incorporated	into	the	planning	process	include:
•	itinerary
•	training	and	competition	schedule
•	type	of	accommodation	and	meal	arrangements
•	familiarity	with	the	destination—food	and	drink	availability,	hygiene	issues,
climate
•	local	dietary	habits	(for	example,	timing	of	meals)
•	food	and	fluids	provided	by	competition	management/organisers
•	distance	between	accommodation	and	training/competition	venue(s)
•	venue	facilities	(safe	water	supply,	refrigerators,	etc.).
An	athlete’s	specific	nutrition	goals	need	to	be	central	to	all	planning.	While
some	adaptability	will	be	needed,	a	nutrition	action	plan	for	training	and
competition	days	should	be	made	before	departure	so	that	major	issues	are

competition	days	should	be	made	before	departure	so	that	major	issues	are
avoided.
Common	travel	nutrition	issues
Many	of	the	common	nutrition-related	issues	experienced	by	athletes	who	travel
are	presented	in	the	following	section,	along	with	suggestions	for	how	these
issues	could	be	mitigated.
Flights
A	number	of	stresses	can	take	place	in	transit	that	are	independent	of	the	time
zones	crossed.
Dry,	pressurised	air	in	the	cabin	of	an	airplane	results	in	a	need	for	increased
fluid	intake	during	flight.	This	is	especially	the	case	for	long-haul	flights,	where
significant	dehydration	could	occur.
•	Carry	an	empty	water	bottle	and	use	the	onboard	taps	(located	near	the	flight
attendant	stations)	to	refill.
•	Request	additional	fluids	beyond	those	provided	at	meal	services	(these	are
invariably	very	small	containers).
•	Alcohol	can	contribute	to	dehydration	and	avoidance	should	be	considered.
•	Caffeine-containing	fluids	are	a	suitable	choice	to	add	to	fluid	balance	if	they
are	a	regular	part	of	an	athlete’s	diet.
Food	supplied	by	airlines	does	not	always	meet	the	nutrition	requirements	of
an	athlete.
•	Airlines	tend	to	provide	a	limited	range	of	foods.	Special	requests	can	be	made,
but	airlines	may	not	be	able	to	meet	an	athlete’s	requirements.
•	Special	meal	requests	to	airlines	should	be	made	well	in	advance	of	flights.
•	Athletes	should	take	their	own	snacks	on	board.	These	are	useful	if	the	food
provided	does	not	meet	requirements,	or	if	unexpected	delays	occur.
•	If	an	athlete’s	energy	requirements	are	high,	they	should	take	high-kilojoule
snacks	onboard	to	snack	on,	such	as	trail	mix,	muesli	or	energy	bars.
•	Alternatively,	if	the	athlete	has	low	energy	needs	they	will	need	to	be	wary	of
snacking	due	to	boredom.	Taking	some	sugar-free	chewing	gum	and	drinking
low-energy	(kJ)	fluids,	such	as	water,	can	be	a	useful	strategy	to	overcome	this
temptation.
Travel	by	road
If	travelling	via	car	or	bus	it	is	advisable	to	pack	a	small	cooler	or	lunchbox	with
meals	or	snacks	and	fluids	to	ensure	appropriate	items	are	on	hand.	This	will

meals	or	snacks	and	fluids	to	ensure	appropriate	items	are	on	hand.	This	will
also	be	a	more	economical	option	than	relying	on	over-priced	service	station
items.
Illness
Gastrointestinal	infections	related	to	travelling	are	frequent	among	athletes	and
are	often	food-and	fluid-borne.
•	Education	of	athletes	and	support	staff	before	travel	is	required.
•	Many	infections	can	be	prevented	by	taking	care	with	food	and	fluid	choices,
along	with	personal	hygiene.
•	Avoiding	the	local	water	supply	in	countries	where	potential	pathogens	could
be	consumed	in	this	manner	is	essential.	Care	should	be	taken	to	avoid	ice	in
drinks	and	to	avoid	brushing	teeth	with	local	water.	Drinks	should	be
consumed	from	sealed	containers	only.
•	Beware	that	salads	and	peeled	fruit	may	have	been	washed	in	local,
contaminated	water	and	are	best	avoided	unless	you	are	sure	that	they	are	safe.
•	Unpasteurised	dairy	products	should	be	avoided.
•	Care	should	be	taken	to	only	eat	meals	that	are	either	served	very	hot	or	cold.
•	Using	probiotics	and	prebiotics	(see	
Chapter	23
)	both	prior	to	departure	and
during	the	travel	period	can	help	minimise	the	risk	of	certain	infections.
Additional	food	supplies
Packing	a	supply	of	food	and	sports	foods	from	home	will	be	useful	if	the	food
supply	(type,	quality,	safety)	is	unknown,	the	athlete	is	a	fussy	eater,	or	if	they
rely	on	specific	products	around	training	sessions	and	competitions.
Always	check	ahead	with	customs/quarantine	authorities	to	identify	what
foods	are	restricted.
Environment
An	athlete’s	nutrition	needs	may	be	different	at	the	destination	due	to	the
environment	(for	example,	due	to	altitude	or	heat;	see	
Chapter	22
).
Develop	a	plan	to	counter	any	negative	effects	of	these	changes	before	leaving
home.
Eating	out
Eating	out	can	be	tricky	in	terms	of	meeting	nutrition	requirements.
•	Try	to	check	out	menus	online	before	selecting	a	restaurant.
•	Special	dietary	needs	should	be	organised	ahead	of	time.
•	If	travelling	with	large	groups	of	athletes,	calling	ahead	and	arranging	for	a
certain	number	of	specific	meals	to	be	ready	to	serve	can	help	reduce	wait
times.

times.
Buffets
Buffets	offer	a	large	variety	of	foods	and	it	is	easy	to	eat	more	than	required	in
this	setting.
•	It	is	important	that	the	athlete	is	familiar	with	their	own	nutrition	goals.
•	Athletes	should	be	encouraged	to	do	‘a	lap’	of	the	buffet	or	dining	hall	to	gauge
what	is	on	the	menu	before	plating	their	own	meal.
•	The	athlete	should	be	selective	with	their	choices	rather	than	taking	some	of
everything	on	offer.
•	Leaving	the	dining	area	as	soon	as	the	meal	has	been	consumed	helps	to
prevent	the	temptation	to	go	back	for	more.
Self-catering
Staying	in	apartments	that	have	cooking	facilities	allows	for	flexibility	in	meal
times	and	food	options.
•	Using	an	online	shopping	service	can	be	useful	if	ordering	large	quantities	(for
example,	when	cooking	or	ordering	for	a	whole	squad).
•	Having	‘go-to’	recipes	that	require	few	ingredients	and	minimal	cooking
equipment	(often	sparse	in	rented	accommodation)	is	suggested.
Hydration
Monitoring	hydration	using	morning	body	weight	or	with	urine	specific	gravity
testing	is	advisable,	especially	after	long-haul	flights	or	in	hot	climates.
•	In	hot	and	humid	countries	and	sporting	venues,	sweat	rates	can	be	significant.
•	Regular	body	weights	of	individual	athletes	before	and	after	exercise	sessions
are	useful	to	determine	hydration	status.
•	Drinking	large	volumes	of	water,	especially	during	hard	exercise,	may	lead	to
hyponatraemia.	Use	of	a	sports	drink	or	electrolyte	drink	can	help	to	address
this	problem.
Sleep
Sleep	is	increasingly	recognised	as	one	of	the	critical	foundations	of	an	athlete’s
training	program.	Sleep	is	considered	the	best	recovery	strategy	available	to
athletes	due	to	its	physical	and	psychological	restorative	effects.	Getting	a	good
night’s	sleep	can	decrease	injury	risk,	improve	reaction	time,	coordination,
concentration,	memory,	learning,	motivation,	mood	and	immunity	and	increase

concentration,	memory,	learning,	motivation,	mood	and	immunity	and	increase
performance.	Sleep	also	aids	the	repair	and	regeneration	of	muscles	and	tissues
due	to	important	hormonal	release	(growth	hormone	in	particular)	that	occurs
during	sleep	(Halson	2014).
Sleep	studies	with	training	athletes	are	an	emerging	area	of	research,	and	most
studies	have	found	that	athletes	have	poorer-quality	sleep	and	less	time	asleep
than	is	recommended	(Lastella	
et	al.
	2015;	Leeder	
et	al.
	2012;	Sargent	
et	al.
2014).	This	effect	is	likely	exacerbated	by	long-haul	or	frequent	travel.	Given
the	importance	of	sleep	and	the	poor	quality	and	amount	of	sleep	experienced	by
many	athletes,	strategies	to	enhance	sleep	should	be	considered	(see	
Box	21.3
).
Box	21.3:	Strategies	for	a	good	night’s	sleep
BEDROOM
•	The	bedroom	should	be	cool	(19–21°C	is	best),	dark,	quiet	and
comfortable.
•	The	bed	and	pillows	used	are	important.	They	should	be	supportive	and
requirements	will	vary	according	to	individual	physical	attributes.
ROUTINE
•	Create	a	good	sleep	routine	by	going	to	bed	at	the	same	time	and	waking
up	at	the	same	time	every	day	(or	as	often	as	possible).
•	A	before-bed	routine	can	help	the	body	prepare	for	sleep.	The	routine
should	start	about	30	minutes	before	bedtime	and	be	consistent.	This	may
include	activities	such	as	cleaning	teeth	and	reading	a	book.
ELECTRONICS
•	Avoid	watching	television	or	using	smartphones/computers	in	bed.	These
can	steal	sleep	time	and	form	bad	habits.
AVOID	WATCHING	THE	CLOCK
•	Many	people	who	struggle	with	sleep	tend	to	watch	the	clock	too	much.

•	Many	people	who	struggle	with	sleep	tend	to	watch	the	clock	too	much.
•	Frequently	checking	the	clock	during	the	night	can	wake	you	up
(especially	if	you	turn	on	the	light	to	read	the	time)	and	may	reinforce
negative	thoughts.
GET	UP	AND	TRY	AGAIN
•	If	you	haven’t	been	able	to	get	to	sleep	after	about	20	minutes,	get	up	and
do	something	calming	or	boring	until	you	feel	sleepy,	then	return	to	bed
and	try	again.
•	Sit	quietly	on	the	couch	with	the	lights	off	(bright	light	will	tell	your	brain
that	it	is	time	to	wake	up).
FOOD	AND	FLUID
•	Avoid	the	use	of	caffeinated	food	and	fluids	later	in	the	day.
•	Do	not	go	to	bed	after	consuming	too	much	fluid;	this	may	result	in
waking	up	to	use	the	bathroom.
BE	ORGANISED
•	Utilise	a	‘to-do’	list	or	diary	to	ensure	organisation	and	prevent
unnecessary	over-thinking	while	trying	to	sleep.
RELAX
•	Investigate	relaxation	or	breathing	techniques.
NUTRITION	AND	SLEEP
Although	our	knowledge	of	how	nutrition	impacts	sleep	is	still	somewhat	sparse,
it	is	an	area	of	growing	interest	to	researchers	and	athletes	alike.	Some	nutrition
strategies	are	known	to	impact	both	sleep	onset	and	quality,	and	can	be
manipulated	by	athletes	to	achieve	improved	sleep	outcomes.
Several	brain	neurotransmitters	are	associated	with	the	sleep–wake	cycle.
Specific	nutrition	interventions	can	act	on	these	neurotransmitters	to	influence

Specific	nutrition	interventions	can	act	on	these	neurotransmitters	to	influence
sleep	(Halson	2014).	The	rate	of	synthesis	and	function	of	the	neurotransmitter
5-HT	(which	in	turn	stimulates	the	production	of	melatonin),	is	influenced	by	the
availability	of	its	precursor	tryptophan	(Grimmett	&	Sillence	2005).	Tryptophan
is	an	amino	acid	found	in	foods	such	as	eggs,	meat,	poultry	and	dairy	products.
Tryptophan	must	be	transported	across	the	blood–brain	barrier	for	it	to	have
its	sleep-inducing	impact,	and	carbohydrate	is	needed	to	support	this	process.
Therefore,	a	drink,	snack	or	meal	that	contains	both	tryptophan	and	carbohydrate
could	help	induce	sleep.	Popular	sleep-inducing	snack	options	include	a	milk
drink,	yoghurt	or	tuna	and	crackers.
Alcohol	may	also	help	a	person	feel	sleepy	and	fall	asleep	more	quickly.
However,	once	alcohol	levels	in	the	blood	fall,	sleep	is	disrupted	and	the	amount
of	quality	sleep	is	reduced	(Ebrahim	
et	al.
	2013).	Athletes	should	be	made	aware
of	this	so	that	an	informed	choice	around	alcohol	consumption	can	be	made.
Caffeine	has	a	role	in	the	performance	plan	of	many	athletes,	as	well	as	being
a	regular	feature	in	many	athletes’	habitual	eating	plans.	Given	caffeine	can
delay	an	athlete’s	natural	signals	to	go	to	sleep,	its	use	as	an	ergogenic	aid	in
sport	needs	to	be	carefully	planned.	The	athlete	should	identify	the	dose	and
timing	of	caffeine	required	to	maximise	performance	and	minimise	sleep
disturbances	by	trialling	caffeine	intake	strategies	in	training	(see	
Chapter	12
).
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
Effective	planning	and	preparation	for	travel	in	elite	athletes	is	essential	to
optimise	performance	and	reduce	the	risk	of	illness.	Reducing	the	symptoms	of
jet	lag	can	aid	
in	reducing	training	days	lost	due	to	travel.	Through	careful
planning	and	execution	of	travel,	nutrition	and	sleep	strategies,	it	is	possible	to
minimise	some	of	the	negative	influences	of	travel	in	athletes.	This	may	have	a
positive	influence	on	health,	wellbeing,	mood	and,	importantly,	performance.
Key	messages
•	Jet	lag	can	result	in	physiological	and	psychological	symptoms	that	may	impair
performance.
•	Light,	exercise,	caffeine	and	melatonin	may	be	used	to	manage	jet	lag,
although	these	need	to	be	used	with	caution.
•	Strategies	such	as	sleep,	planning,	nutrition,	exercise	and	compression
garments	can	be	used	before	and	during	travel	to	manage	travel	fatigue	and	jet
lag.

lag.
•	Nutritional	considerations	such	as	nutrition	provisions	in	transit,	food	and	fluid
safety	(hygiene),	meal	availability	at	the	destination	and	food	and	fluid
provided	by	the	training	or	competition	venue	are	important.
•	Destination	eating	options	(eating	out,	buffets	and	self-catering)	have	issues
that	need	to	be	planned	for	prior	to	travel.
•	Monitoring	hydration	after	travel	is	recommended.
•	Optimal	sleep	is	important	for	athletes’	performance	as	well	as	managing	jet
lag.
•	The	role	of	nutrition	in	enhancing	sleep	is	likely	to	become	an	important	area
of	future	focus.
REFERENCES
Ebrahim,	I.O.,	Shapiro,	C.M.,	Williams,	A.J.	et	al.,	2013,	‘Alcohol	and	sleep	I:
Effects	on	normal	sleep’,	
Alcoholism:	Clinical	and	Experimental	Research
,
vol.	37,	no.	4,	pp.	539–49.
Fowler,	P.,	Duffield,	R.,	Howle	K.	et	al.,	2014,	‘Effects	of	northbound	long-haul
international	air	travel	on	sleep	quality	and	subjective	jet	lag	and	wellness	in
professional	Australian	soccer	players’,	
International	Journal	of	Sports
Physiology	and	Performance
,	vol.	10,	no.	2,	pp.	648–54.
Fowler,	P.,	Duffield,	R.,	Morrow,	I.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Effects	of	sleep	hygiene	and
artificial	bright	light	interventions	on	recovery	from	simulated	international
air	travel’,	
European	Journal	of	Applied	Physiology
,	vol.	115,	no.	3,	pp.	541–
53.
Grimmett,	A.	&	Sillence,	M.N.,	2005,	‘Calmatives	for	the	excitable	horse:	A
review	of	L-tryptophan’,	
The	Veterinary	Journal
,	vol.	170,	no.	1,	pp.	24–32.
Halson,	S.L.,	2014,	‘Sleep	in	elite	athletes	and	nutritional	interventions	to
enhance	sleep’,	
Sports	Medicine
,	vol.	44,	suppl.	1,	pp.	S13–23.
Lastella,	M.,	Roach,	G.D.,	Halson,	S.L.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Sleep/wake	behaviours	of
elite	athletes	from	individual	and	team	sports’,	
European	Journal	of	Sport
Science
,	vol.	15,	no.	2,	pp.	94–100.
Leeder,	J.,	Glaister,	M.,	Pizzoferro,	K.	et	al.,	2012,	‘Sleep	duration	and	quality	in
elite	athletes	measured	using	wristwatch	actigraphy’,	
Journal	of	Sports
Sciences
,	vol.	30,	no.	6,	pp.	541–5.
Sargent,	C.,	Lastella,	M.,	Halson,	S.L.	et	al.,	2014,	‘The	impact	of	training
schedules	on	the	sleep	and	fatigue	of	elite	athletes’,	
Chronobiology
International
,	vol.	31,	no.	10,	pp.	1160–68.

Waterhouse,	A.J.,	Reilly,	T.	&	Edwards,	B.,	2004,	‘The	stress	of	travel’,	
Journal
of	Sport	Sciences
,	vol.	22,	no.	10,	pp.	946–66.
Youngstedt,	S.D.	&	O’Connor,	P.J.,	1999,	‘The	influence	of	air	travel	on	athletic
performance’,	
Sports	Medicine
,	vol.	28,	no.	3,	pp.	197–207.

Environmental	and	climate
considerations	for	athletes
Alan	McCubbin
With	the	increasing	connectedness	of	our	planet,	humans	have	found	themselves
testing	their	physical	limits	in	almost	every	corner	of	the	globe.	A	soccer	player
can	find	themselves	in	the	searing	heat	of	the	Australian	summer,	or	walking	out
into	a	snow-covered	stadium	in	Europe.	A	triathlete	can	train	all	winter	in	the
southern	hemisphere,	then	fly	halfway	around	the	world	to	compete	in	the	heat
and	humidity	of	Hawaii.	There	are	also	people	exercising	in	environments	where
oxygen	is	in	limited	supply—explorers	trekking	to	the	peaks	of	the	highest
mountains,	and	those	deliberately	training	at	actual	or	simulated	altitude.
Understanding	the	impact	of	environment	on	exercise	physiology	and
nutrition	requirements	is	crucial	in	helping	athletes	stay	healthy	and	perform	at
their	best.	This	chapter	will	explore	the	effects	of	heat	and	humidity,	cold,
altitude	and	hypoxia	on	the	body	during	exercise,	and	nutritional	strategies	used
to	optimise	performance	in	these	environments.

LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	understand	the	impact	of	heat,	cold,	altitude	and	hypoxia	on	the	body	during
exercise
•	describe	the	effect	of	environmental	extremes	on	nutritional	requirements
•	identify	the	challenges	of	maintaining	optimal	nutritional	intake	in	extreme
environments
•	develop	practical	nutrition	strategies	to	optimise	athletic	performance	in
different	environmental	conditions.
HEAT,	HUMIDITY	AND	EXERCISE
Conduction
The	transfer	of	heat	from	one	object	to	another	through	contact.	Heat	is	transferred	from	the	warmer	to
the	cooler	object.
Convection
The	transfer	of	heat	through	the	movement	of	warmer	liquids	or	gases	towards	areas	that	are	cooler,
usually	due	to	air	or	water	flow	over	the	skin.	The	greater	the	flow	of	air	or	water,	the	greater	the	heat
transfer.
Radiation
The	transfer	of	heat	through	any	medium,	without	contact,	using	thermal	or	infrared	radiation.
Evaporation
Sweat	from	the	surface	of	the	skin	accounts	for	the	majority	of	heat	transfer	during	exercise.	The	rate	of
sweating	can	increase	significantly	during	exercise	to	increase	the	amount	of	evaporation	and,	therefore,
the	amount	of	heat	transferred	from	the	body.
During	exercise,	the	production	of	energy	for	muscle	contraction	also	produces
heat	as	a	by-product.	This	heat	accumulates	and	causes	a	rise	in	core	body

temperature.	Human	body	temperature	is	regulated	within	a	narrow	range;	lower
than	35°C	or	higher	than	40°C	places	an	individual	at	risk	of	serious	health
complications.	Therefore,	the	heat	produced	during	exercise	must	be	dissipated
into	the	environment	to	prevent	core	body	temperature	rising	to	dangerous
levels.	Initially,	heat	produced	by	the	working	muscles	is	transferred	to	the
blood.	The	blood	is	preferentially	circulated	to	the	skin,	so	heat	can	exchange
with	the	surrounding	environment.	Heat	exchange	occurs	via	several	processes,
including	
conduction
,	
convection
	and	
radiation
	from	the	skin,	and
evaporation
	of	fluid	in	the	lungs	and	of	sweat	on	the	skin	surface.
It	is	not	surprising	that	heat	exchange	is	less	effective	in	hot	and	humid
environments,	resulting	in	higher	core	body	temperatures	for	the	same	exercise
bout.	For	example,	when	two	hours	of	moderate	intensity	(60	per	cent	VO
2max
)
treadmill	running	was	performed	in	35°C,	rectal	temperature	rose	2.4°C	from	the
start	to	finish	of	the	exercise	bout.	The	same	exercise	performed	in	22°C	caused
a	rise	of	only	1.4°C	(Snipe	
et	al.
	2018).
Exercise	performance	in	hot	and	humid	environments
Exercise	performance	in	one-off	sprint	events	is	usually	improved	in	hot
weather,	whereas	performance	in	prolonged	efforts	or	repeated	sprint	efforts
(such	as	in	team	sports)	is	reduced	(see	
Figure	22.1
)	(Guy	
et	al.
	2015).	The	exact
mechanisms	by	which	heat	affects	prolonged	exercise	performance	are	not	well
understood,	but	it	is	known	that	increased	core	temperature	limits	performance
and	increases	the	body’s	perceived	level	of	effort	at	any	given	exercise	intensity.
Exercising	in	the	heat	reduces	activity	of	working	muscles,	resulting	in	less
power	generated,	even	before	core	temperature	begins	to	rise	(Tucker	
et	al.
2004).	When	core	body	temperature	does	rise,	sweat	glands	also	become
increasingly	active,	increasing	the	rate	of	sweating.	This	results	in	greater	losses
of	fluid	and	electrolytes,	particularly	sodium	and	chloride.	While	electrolyte
losses	are	not	believed	to	negatively	impact	on	performance,	dehydration	from
the	loss	of	fluid	is	well	established	as	a	performance-limiting	factor.	For	more
information	on	hydration	and	performance,	refer	to	
Chapter	11
.

Figure	22.1.	Effect	of	heat	(<25°C	compared	to	>25°C)	for	running	events	in	IAAF	World
Championship	events	held	between	1999	and	2011
Source:	Data	from	Guy	
et	al.
	2015	(Note:	average	of	male	and	female	data;	positive	effects	indicate	faster
finish	time;	negative	effects	indicate	slower	finish	times).
Athletes	in	sports	where	significant	metabolic	heat	is	generated	usually
produce	better	performances	in	cooler	and	less	humid	conditions.	For	example,
an	increase	from	23°C	to	32°C	reduced	power	output	by	6.5	per	cent	in	elite
road	cyclists	(Tatterson	2000).	The	optimal	temperature	chosen	by	scientists
supporting	the	Nike	Breaking	2	project	(an	attempt	to	break	the	two-hour	barrier
for	the	marathon)	was	7–12°C,	in	order	to	maximise	heat	exchange.	An	increase
in	relative	humidity	from	24	per	cent	to	80	per	cent	reduced	the	time	cyclists
could	ride	to	exhaustion	at	70	per	cent	VO
2max
	by	22	minutes,	even	when	the
temperature	remained	constant	(Maughan	
et	al.
	2012).
Health	consequences	of	exercising	in	hot	and	humid
environments
More	concerning	is	the	potential	health	consequences	of	exercise	in	hot	and
humid	environments.	Heat	exhaustion	occurs	when	significant	dehydration	has
caused	a	reduction	in	circulating	blood	volume	and	blood	pressure.	Symptoms
including	nausea	and	vomiting,	rapid	heart	rate,	significant	fatigue,	dizziness	or
fainting	are	associated	with	core	body	temperatures	lower	than	40°C.	If	core

body	temperature	exceeds	40°C,	
exertional	heat	stroke
	is	more	likely.	This	is	a
potentially	life-threatening	condition	in	which	the	central	nervous	system,	major
organ	systems	and	skeletal	muscles	can	be	affected.	Rapid	cooling	and	urgent
medical	attention	are	required	in	this	scenario.
Exertional	heat	stroke
An	elevated	core	temperature	associated	with	signs	of	organ	system	failure	due	to	overheating.
Sympathetic	nervous	system
Often	termed	the	fight	or	flight	response.	It	accelerates	heart	rate,	dilates	bronchial	passages,	decreases
motility	of	the	digestive	tract,	constricts	blood	vessels,	increases	sweating.
Exercise-induced	gastrointestinal	syndrome
A	term	used	to	describe	disruption	to	the	structure	and	function	of	the	gastrointestinal	tract	during
exercise.	This	can	result	in	gastrointestinal	symptoms	during	exercise.	Physical	damage	can	also	occur	to
the	gut	lining,	allowing	movement	of	bacteria	and	their	by-products	from	the	gut	into	the	bloodstream.
This	causes	a	significant	response	from	the	immune	system,	which	can	further	raise	core	body
temperature,	increasing	the	risk	of	exertional	heat	stroke	(Costa	
et	al.
	2017).
Exercise-associated	hyponatraemia
Also	called	low	blood	sodium,	and	defined	as	‘hyponatraemia	occurring	during	or	up	to	24	h	after
physical	activity.	It	is	defined	by	a	serum,	plasma	or	blood	sodium	concentration	([Na+])	below	the
normal	reference	range	of	the	laboratory	performing	the	test.	For	most	laboratories,	this	is	a	[Na+]	less
than	135	mmol/L’	(Hew-Butler	
et	al.
	2015).
Because	the	rise	in	core	body	temperature	causes	a	significant	shift	of	blood
flow	to	the	skin,	there	is	a	proportional	reduction	in	blood	flow	to	other	organs,
including	the	gastrointestinal	tract.	In	addition,	exercise	in	the	heat	increases	the
body’s	
sympathetic	nervous	system
	activity.	Because	of	both	these	factors,
exercising	in	the	heat	has	been	shown	to	significantly	increase	the	risk	of	both
gastrointestinal	symptoms	and	intestinal	damage,	known	as	
exercise-induced
gastrointestinal	syndrome
	(Snipe	
et	al.
	2018).	In	some	cases,	it	is	believed	that
intestinal	damage	and	the	resulting	immune	system	response	is	a	major
contributor	to	exertional	heat	stroke.	For	more	information	on	exercise-induced
gastrointestinal	syndrome,	refer	to	
Chapter	23
.
Although	dehydration	is	an	obvious	potential	consequence	of	exercise	in	the
heat,	what	is	less	intuitive	is	an	increased	risk	of	
exercise-associated
hyponatraemia
	(EAH),	which	is	typically	caused	by	fluid	overload	and	dilution

of	blood	sodium	concentration.	This	may	be	due	partially	to	fluid	retention,
because	the	blood	plasma	volume	expands	during	exercise	in	the	heat.	But	EAH
has	also	been	shown	to	occur	in	situations	where	an	individual	deliberately
consumes	large	amounts	of	fluid	during	exercise	for	fear	of	dehydration,	often
above	thirst	and	at	a	rate	equal	to	or	greater	than	sweat	losses.	It	is	also	believed
that,	while	less	common,	there	are	cases	of	hyponatraemia	that	have	developed
from	large,	unreplaced	sweat	sodium	losses,	without	over-hydration	(Hew-Butler
et	al.
	2015).	Regardless	of	the	cause,	the	consequences	of	EAH	are	severe.	Fluid
can	accumulate	around	the	
lungs	and	brain,	causing	shortness	of	breath	and
altered	conscious	state.	To	date,	at	least	ten	people	have	died	as	a	result	of
hyponatraemia,	including	some	exercising	in	hot	environments.
During	exercise	in	hot	conditions,	electrolyte—particularly	sodium—losses
are	significantly	increased	compared	to	cooler	conditions.	The	rate	of	sweat
production	increases	in	the	heat,	and	the	sweat	sodium	concentration	itself
increases	with	increasing	sweat	rate.	This	occurs	because	sweat	flows	faster
through	the	sweat	duct	to	the	skin	surface,	reducing	the	ability	of	the	duct	to
reabsorb	sodium	and	chloride	and	prevent	it	leaving	the	body.	The	total	amount
of	sodium	that	can	be	lost	during	exercise	is	probably	not	significant	for	shorter
exercise	bouts,	even	in	the	heat.	A	very	high	rate	of	sodium	loss	of	1000
milligrams	per	hour,	for	two	hours,	represents	a	change	in	sodium	stores	of	less
than	three	per	cent.	This	is	less	than	the	typical	sodium	losses	in	a	day	from
urine,	and	in	this	case	the	kidneys	simply	respond	by	reducing	urinary	sodium
excretion	to	compensate.	However,	in	ultra-endurance	sports	participants	can	be
exercising	continuously	for	ten	hours	or	more.	In	this	case,	the	total	theoretical
sodium	loss	could	accumulate	to	more	than	20	per	cent	of	the	body’s	total
sodium	if	not	replaced.	There	is	currently	no	research	to	show	whether	sweat
glands	act	to	conserve	sodium	when	such	a	large	deficit	occurs,	but	specifically
replacing	sodium	would	seem	prudent	in	this	scenario.	The	exact	health
consequences	of	large	sodium	deficits	during	exercise	have	not	been	well
studied,	but	the	potential	complications	include	whole-body	muscle	cramping,
exercise-associated	hyponatraemia	and	a	loss	of	bone	minerals	(Eichner	2008;
Hew-Butler	
et	al.
	2013;	Hew-Butler	
et	al.
	2015).
Because	of	the	potentially	significant	health	consequences	of	exercising	in	hot
environments,	many	sports	have	adopted	policies	to	shorten,	postpone	or	cancel
events	in	the	event	of	extreme	heat.	The	Australian	Open	tennis	tournament	has
an	extreme	heat	policy	to	move	matches	indoors	and	close	the	stadium	roof
where	possible,	at	the	discretion	of	match	referees.	The	Cycling	Australia	Road
National	Championships	in	2018	were	shortened,	and	the	mass	participation
support	event	cancelled	due	to	temperatures	forecast	to	exceed	40°C.	And	soccer
matches	in	the	A-League	and	W-League,	played	during	the	Australian	summer,

matches	in	the	A-League	and	W-League,	played	during	the	Australian	summer,
have	been	postponed	from	daytime	to	evening	to	reduce	the	impact	of	extreme
heat,	in	response	to	several	players	vomiting	at	half-time	during	matches	played
in	38°C.
Effect	of	heat	and	humidity	on	nutrient	metabolism
and	nutritional	requirements	during	exercise
The	use	of	carbohydrate	for	fuel	is	increased,	and	fat	reduced,	during	exercise	in
the	heat.	In	particular,	muscle	glycogen	appears	to	be	the	source	of	increased
carbohydrate	use,	with	the	use	of	blood	glucose	as	a	fuel	not	altered	by	heat
exposure.	Two	
potential	reasons	have	been	proposed	to	explain	this.	Firstly,
increased	blood	flow	to	the	skin	and	reduced	blood	flow	to	muscles	results	in
less	oxygen,	fatty	acids	and	glucose	being	delivered,	and	this	may	favour	the	use
of	fuels	already	stored	in	the	muscle—particularly	carbohydrate,	which	needs
less	oxygen	for	the	same	ATP	output.	Secondly,	there	is	often	an	increase	in	the
hormone	epinephrine	during	exercise	in	the	heat,	which	has	been	shown	to
increase	muscle	glycogen	use	as	a	fuel	source.	Total	oxidation	of	carbohydrate
during	exercise	is	at	least	15	per	cent	greater	in	the	heat	than	in	cooler
conditions,	with	some	studies	finding	greater	differences	(Hargreaves	
et	al.
1996;	Fink	
et	al.
	1975).
Heat	acclimatisation	and	acclimation
Heat	acclimatisation
The	process	of	adaptation	by	living	and	training	in	a	naturally	hot	environment.
Heat	acclimation
The	process	of	adaptation	from	completing	specific	training	sessions	in	artificially	induced	heat,	such	as
a	climate	chamber	or	heated	room.
The	responses	already	mentioned	assume	that	the	person	exercising	in	the	heat	is
not	already	adapted	to	hot	environments.	However,	if	an	athlete	undergoes	heat

acclimatisation
	or	
acclimation,
	several	processes	occur	that	improve	the	body’s
ability	to	transfer	heat.	These	reduce	the	detrimental	effects	of	heat	on
performance	and	health	to	some	extent.	Among	the	range	of	adaptations	that
occur	over	a	one-to	two-week	period	of	exercising	in	the	heat:
•	blood	volume	expands,	increasing	stroke	volume	and	reducing	heart	rate
•	skin	blood	flow	increases,	improving	the	ability	for	heat	exchange
•	sweating	begins	at	a	lower	core	body	temperature,	and	sweat	rate	is
significantly	higher
•	sodium	and	chloride	concentrations	become	significantly	lower
•	total	carbohydrate	oxidation	is	reduced	and	fat	oxidation	increased	at	the	same
exercise	intensity.
Overall,	these	adaptations	result	in	increased	fluid	needs	but	decreased
carbohydrate	needs	compared	to	someone	exercising	with	no	previous	heat
exposure.	Sodium	needs	are	about	the	same;	while	the	sodium	concentration
decreases	with	acclimation,	the	total	volume	of	sweat	produced	increases.
Nutritional	interventions	in	the	heat
In	addition	to	increased	requirements	for	carbohydrate,	fluid	and	sodium,	for
which	strategies	to	optimise	intake	are	covered	in	previous	chapters,	sports
nutrition	practitioners	have	sought	to	reduce	the	effect	of	heat	on	core	body
temperature	to	improve	health	and	performance	in	the	heat.	One	common
method	is	the	use	of	ice	slushies	in	the	30	minutes	before	exercise	as	a
precooling	strategy.	This	approach	was	used	by	
the	Australian	Institute	of	Sport
in	preparation	for	hot	temperatures	expected	at	the	2008	Beijing	Olympic
Games.	Pilot	testing	showed	a	reduction	of	0.25°C	in	rectal	temperature	after
consuming	500	grams	of	an	ice	slushie	made	from	sports	drink,	with	a	0.6°C
reduction	after	consuming	1000	grams	of	ice	slushy	(Ross	
et	al.
	2011).	This
reduction	remained	constant	after	warm-up	for	a	simulated	cycling	time-trial,	so
that	the	athlete	began	exercise	at	a	lower	core	body	temperature.	The	final
strategy	used	at	the	Beijing	Olympics	combined	the	consumption	of	an	ice
slushie	and	covering	the	legs	in	towels	that	had	been	soaked	in	ice-cold	water.
This	reduced	core	body	temperature	by	0.72°C,	and	improved	performance	in	a
simulation	of	the	Olympic	time-trial	by	66	seconds,	or	1.3	per	cent,	compared	to
drinking	4°C	water	and	not	using	iced	towels	(Ross	
et	al.
	2011).
Other	researchers	and	practitioners	have	attempted	to	use	ice	slushies	or	cold
water	as	a	cooling	strategy	during	exercise,	with	some	success.	Slushies	can	be

given	during	half-time	in	some	team	sports,	for	example;	however,	in	many
sports	this	is	not	affordable	or	practical.	Icy-poles	can	also	be	used,	but	the	total
fluid	quantity	is	usually	smaller.	As	shown	in	
Figure	22.2
,	large	fluid	volumes
are	an	important	factor	in	precooling,	outweighing	the	effectiveness	of	a	food
that	is	slightly	colder	but	contains	less	total	fluid.
The	effect	of	cold	water	has	also	been	investigated	as	a	strategy	to	reduce	the
effects	of	exercise-induced	gastrointestinal	syndrome.	Participants	ran	at	60	per
cent	VO
2max
	on	a	treadmill	for	two	hours	in	35°C	heat,	drinking	water	at	0.4°C,
7.3°C	or	22.1°C.	The	cold	water	was	successful	in	reducing	rectal	temperature
but	had	minimal	impact	on	gastrointestinal	symptoms	or	damage	(Snipe	&	Costa
2018).
Practical	issues	affecting	nutrition	in	hot	and	humid
environments
Keeping	food	and	fluids	cool	can	be	a	potential	challenge	depending	on	the
environment	in	which	exercise	is	taking	place.	It	is	easy	to	have	an	ice	chest	or
tub	of	ice	for	storing	drinks,	or	electric	refrigeration,	by	the	side	of	a	team	sport
field	or	racquet	sport	court.	But	for	longer	training	sessions,	or	competitions
where	the	exercise	takes	place	far	from	a	single	base	of	support,	keeping	food
and	fluids	cool	becomes	more	challenging.	In	multistage	ultramarathons	in
desert	environments,	for	example,	the	heating	of	sports	drinks	and	gels	in	the	sun
can	make	them	so	unpalatable	that	athletes	no	longer	consume	them	(McCubbin
et	al.
	2016).	Where	practical,	partially	or	completely	freezing	fluids	prior	to
prolonged	exercise	can	be	useful,	with	fluid	being	consumed	cold	as	it	thaws.
Ensuring	foods	and	fluids	are	shaded	from	the	sun	where	possible	and	avoiding
direct	contact	with	the	body	will	also	prevent	heat	exchange	that	warms	the	food
product.	Care	should	also	be	taken	regarding	food	safety	for	non-packaged	foods
consumed	during	exercise.	For	example,	rice	cakes—a	mixture	of	cooked	and
cooled	sushi	rice	combined	with	other	ingredients—is	a	popular	staple	among
road	cyclists	but	is	a	high-risk	food	for	contamination,	especially	on	a	hot	day.
Storing	them	refrigerated	as	long	as	possible	and	consuming	early	during
exercise	will	minimise	the	risk	of	food	poisoning.

Figure	22.2.	Effect	of	cold	water	and	ice	slushie	ingestion	on	rectal	temperature:	(a)	30	minutes	after
commencing	consumption;	(b)	following	a	30-minute	warm-up	in	preparation	for	competition
Source:	Data	from	Ross	
et	al.
	2011.

Figure	22.3.	Athletes	with	extra	fluid	storage	at	the	Marathon	des	Sables,	Morocco
Source:	Richard	Bettles	(used	with	permission).
As	well	as	food	temperature,	increased	fluid	requirements	can	create	a
challenge	in	ensuring	adequate	fluid	is	available	to	athletes.	The	requirement	to
carry	all	food	and	fluids	in	desert	ultramarathons	like	Marathon	des	Sables	in
Morocco	can	make	it	difficult	to	keep	items	cool	and	out	of	the	sun.	In	addition,
the	amount	of	protective	clothing	(including	gaiters	around	the	ankles	to	prevent
sand	entering	a	runner’s	shoes)	reduces	the	ability	to	transfer	heat	away	from	the
body.	With	an	understanding	of	an	athlete’s	expected	fluid	losses,	enough	fluid
can	be	organised	to	meet	their	expected	needs.
COLD	ENVIRONMENTS	AND	NUTRITION
REQUIREMENTS	DURING	EXERCISE
Exercise	in	environments	near	or	below	freezing	temperatures	presents	another
challenge	for	athletes,	whether	specifically	participating	in	snow	sports	or	not.
Energy	requirements	can	increase	in	very	cold	weather,	particularly	if	skin	and
core	body	temperature	cannot	be	maintained	either	through	protective	clothing
or	heat	production	from	exercise	
(Meyer	
et	al.
	2011).	The	weight	of	additional

protective	clothing	can	also	increase	energy	expenditure	(Ocobock	2016).	If	skin
and	core	body	temperature	is	allowed	to	fall,	shivering	can	occur,	which	can
more	than	double	energy	expenditure	compared	to	resting	(Ocobock	2016),
although	this	is	unlikely	during	participation	in	most	sports.	The	proportion	of
energy	that	is	derived	from	carbohydrate	or	fat	during	exercise	does	not	change
significantly	in	colder	weather,	provided	the	exercise	is	undertaken	at	sea	level.
However,	many	sports	undertaken	in	extreme	cold	do	so	at	altitude,	and	this	will
influence	fuel	use	independent	of	temperature,	as	described	later	in	this	chapter.
Although	sweat	rates	are	often	assumed	to	be	lower	in	cold	environments,	this
may	not	always	be	the	case.	Excessive	protective	clothing	will	maintain	skin	and
core	body	temperature	while	reducing	heat	transfer	from	the	skin	(O’Brien	
et	al.
1998).	Therefore,	a	lower	sweat	rate	should	not	be	assumed.	In	addition,
increased	fluid	losses	can	occur	from	the	lungs	in	cold	weather,	due	to	less
moisture	being	present	in	the	air	(O’Brien	
et	al.
	1998),	and	the	sensation	of	thirst
can	be	impaired,	reducing	the	motivation	to	drink	(Meyer	
et	al.
	2011).	Fluid
balance	assessment	and	the	calculation	of	fluid	needs	should	still	be	undertaken
in	cold	environments,	as	in	any	other	climatic	condition.
As	cold	environments	are	usually	associated	with	winter,	it	is	common	for
athletes	in	winter	sports	to	be	exposed	to	less	sunlight,	and	have	lower	vitamin	D
status,	than	athletes	who	train	and	compete	outdoors	in	the	summer	months.	This
is	especially	true	of	athletes	who	travel	between	northern	and	southern
hemispheres	to	continue	training	and	competing	year-round.	For	more
information	on	vitamin	D	status,	needs	and	supplementation,	refer	to	Chapters	5
and	
12
.
Practical	issues	affecting	nutrition	in	cold
environments
Many	of	the	impacts	of	cold	environments	on	nutrition	strategies	are	practical
issues.	Athletes	in	cold	environments	can	be	reluctant	to	drink	due	to	the	limited
availability	of	toilets	and	the	time	and	inconvenience	of	removing	several	layers
of	clothing.	If	thick	gloves	are	worn,	dexterity	is	often	reduced,	making	opening
food	packaging	or	using	drink	bottles	more	difficult.	Wrapping	food	in
aluminium	foil	that	can	easily	be	torn	open,	and	using	drink	bottles	that	can	be
opened	with	the	teeth,	can	avoid	these	issues.	Some	sports	foods	and	fluids	also
become	too	hard	to	chew,	and	may	freeze	in	cold	environments.	Storing	these
close	to	the	body	can	help	keep	them	warm,	and	the	use	of	disposable	heat	packs
can	prevent	food	and	fluids	stored	in	containers	from	freezing.	Alternative	foods
that	provide	carbohydrate,	fluid	and	sodium—such	as	dried	fruit,	hot	soup,	and

that	provide	carbohydrate,	fluid	and	sodium—such	as	dried	fruit,	hot	soup,	and
tea	or	hot	cocoa	with	added	sugar	or	maltodextrin—can	be	used,	particularly	in
the	immediate	pre-and	post-exercise	period.	Hot	foods	are	particularly	useful	if
athletes	are	required	to	wait	around	in	the	snow	with	minimal	protective
clothing,	risking	hypothermia.
Altitude	and	hypoxia
Altitude	exposure	is	generally	considered	to	occur	at	2000	metres	or	more	above
sea	level	(Thomas	
et	al.
	2016).	Athletes	often	exercise	at	altitude,	either	as	a
deliberate	training	strategy	before	competing	at	sea	level,	or	because	competition
occurs	there	(as	with	most	snow	sports).	At	altitude,	although	the	percentage	of
oxygen	in	the	air	is	the	same	as	at	sea	level,	air	is	less	dense,	meaning	there	are
fewer	oxygen	molecules	available.	This	reduces	the	amount	of	oxygen	brought
into	the	lungs	with	each	breath.	Commercial	altitude	tents	or	chambers	attempt
to	simulate	altitude	while	the	athlete	is	at	sea	level.	Although	these	devices	lower
the	availability	of	oxygen	(as	occurs	at	altitude),	they	achieve	it	by	filling	the
space	with	air	that	has	a	lower	oxygen	percentage,	without	changing	air	density.
There	are	several	unique	features	of	exercise	at	altitude	that	impact	on
nutrition.	Firstly,	fluid	losses	are	greater	at	altitude,	due	to	both	lower	humidity
and	the	increased	breathing	required	to	deliver	the	same	amount	of	oxygen	to	the
blood	(Thomas	
et	al.
	2016).	Secondly,	because	carbohydrate	produces	energy
with	less	oxygen,	there	is	a	shift	to	more	carbohydrate	and	less	fat	use	for	the
same	exercise	bout	(Koehle	2014).
Perhaps	most	importantly,	there	is	an	increase	in	red	blood	cells	as	an
adaptation	to	altitude,	which	is	why	endurance	athletes	often	use	altitude	training
to	improve	performance	at	sea	level.	This	effect,	however,	draws	considerably
on	iron	stores	in	order	to	produce	haemoglobin	for	the	new	blood	cells;	iron
levels	will	usually	fall	after	two	weeks	at	altitude.	It	is	recommended	that
athletes	travelling	to	altitude	have	their	iron	status	checked	beforehand,	and
supplementation	provided	as	required,	before	the	altitude	exposure.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	be	able	to	describe	the	key	challenges	that
athletes	face,	from	both	a	physiological	and	practical	perspective,	in	achieving
optimal	nutritional	intake	when	exercising	in	environments	of	extreme	heat,	cold
and	altitude.

and	altitude.
Key	messages
•	Exercise	in	the	heat	results	in	a	greater	increase	in	core	body	temperature
compared	to	exercise	in	cooler	conditions.
•	Exercise	performance	in	sprint	events	is	often	improved	or	unaffected	by	heat;
however,	performance	is	reduced	in	more	prolonged	exercise.
•	Elevated	core	body	temperature	can	lead	to	heat-related	illnesses	and	increase
the	risk	of	exercise-associated	hyponatraemia	and	exercise-induced
gastrointestinal	syndrome.
•	Exercise	in	the	heat	increases	fluid	and	sodium	losses	from	sweating	and
increases	the	use	of	muscle	glycogen	as	an	energy	source.
•	Nutrition	strategies	to	improve	performance	in	the	heat	include	precooling	with
ice	slushies	or	very	cold	water,	ensuring	that	drinks	to	be	consumed	during
exercise	are	kept	as	cold	as	possible,	and	ensuring	adequate	fluid	to	meet	the
athlete’s	needs.
•	Exercise	in	the	cold	can	increase	energy	and	fluid	requirements,	and	can	make
the	consumption	of	food	and	fluids	more	practically	difficult.
•	Athletes	training	and	competing	in	winter	year-round	are	at	increased	risk	of
vitamin	D	deficiency	and	should	be	monitored	and	supplemented	as	required.
•	Altitude	exposure	increases	carbohydrate	and	fluid	requirements,	and	can	draw
significantly	on	iron	stores.
•	Assessing	the	iron	status	of	athletes	prior	to	prolonged	altitude	exposure	is
important	to	ensure	deficiency	does	not	develop,	preventing	the	beneficial
adaptations	to	training	at	altitude.
REFERENCES
Costa,	R.J.S.,	Snipe,	R.M.J.,	Kitic,	C.M.	et	al.,	2017,	‘Systematic	review:
Exercise-induced	gastrointestinal	syndrome-implications	for	health	and
intestinal	disease’,	
Alimentary	Pharmacology	&	Therapeutics,
	vol.	46,	no.	3,
pp.	246–65.
Eichner,	E.R.,	2008,	‘Genetic	and	other	determinants	of	sweat	sodium’,	
Current
Sports	Medicine	Reports,
	vol.	7,	no.	4,	pp.	S36–40.
Fink,	W.J.,	Costil,	D.L.	&	Van	Handel,	P.J.,	1975,	‘Leg	muscle	metabolism
during	exercise	in	the	heat	and	cold’,	
European	Journal	of	Applied
Physiology,
	vol.	34,	no.	3,	pp.	183–90.

Guy,	J.H.,	Deakin,	G.B.,	Edwards,	A.M.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Adaptation	to	hot
environmental	conditions:	An	exploration	of	the	performance	basis,
procedures	and	future	directions	to	optimise	opportunities	for	elite	athletes’,
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	45,	no.	3,	pp.	303–11.
Hargreaves,	M.,	Angus,	D.,	Howlett,	K.	et	al.,	1996,	‘Effect	of	heat	stress	on
glucose	kinetics	during	exercise’,	
Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
	vol.	81,	no.
4,	pp.	1594–7.
Hew-Butler,	T.,	Rosner,	M.H.,	Fowkes-Godek,	S.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Statement	of	the
3rd	International	Exercise-Associated	Hyponatremia	Consensus	Development
Conference,	Carlsbad,	California,	2015’,	
British	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine,
vol.	49,	no.	22,	pp.	1432–46.
Hew-Butler,	T.,	Stuempfle,	K.J.	&	Hoffman,	M.D.,	2013,	‘Bone:	An	acute
buffer	of	plasma	sodium	during	exhaustive	exercise?’,	
Hormone	and
Metabolic	Research,
	vol.	45,	no.	10,	pp.	697–700.
Koehle,	M.S.,	Cheng,	I.	&	Sporer,	B.,	2014,	‘Canadian	Academy	of	Sport	and
Exercise	Medicine	Position	Statement:	Athletes	at	high	altitude’,	
Clinical
Journal	of	Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	24,	no.	2,	pp.	120–7.
Maughan,	R.J.,	Otani,	H.	&	Watson,	P.,	2012,	‘Influence	of	relative	humidity	on
prolonged	exercise	capacity	in	a	warm	environment’,	
European	Journal	of
Applied	Physiology,
	vol.	112,	no.	6,	pp.	2313–21.
McCubbin,	A.J.,	Cox,	G.R.	&	Broad,	E.M.,	2016,	‘Case	Study:	Nutrition
planning	and	intake	for	Marathon	des	Sables—A	series	of	five	runners’,
International	Journal	of	Sport	Nutrition	&	Exercise	Metabolism,
	vol.	26,	no.
6,	pp.	581–87.
Meyer,	N.L.,	Manore,	M.M.	&	Helle,	C.,	2011,	‘Nutrition	for	winter	sports’,
Journal	of	Sports	Science,
	vol.	29,	suppl.	1,	pp.	S127–36.
O’Brien,	C.Y.,	Young,	A.J.	&	Sawka,	M.N.,	1998,	‘Hypohydration	and
thermoregulation	in	cold	air’,	
Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
	vol.	84,	no.	1,
pp.	185–9.
Ocobock,	C.,	2016,	‘Human	energy	expenditure,	allocation,	and	interactions	in
natural	temperate,	hot,	and	cold	environments’,	
American	Journal	of	Physical
Anthropology,
	vol.	161,	no.	4,	pp.	667–75.
Ross,	M.L.,	Garvican,	L.A.,	Jeacocke,	N.A.	et	al.,	2011,	‘Novel	precooling
strategy	enhances	time	trial	cycling	in	the	heat’,	
Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports
&	Exercise,
	vol.	43,	no.	1,	pp.	123–33.
Snipe,	R.M.J.	&	Costa,	R.J.S.,	2018,	‘Does	the	temperature	of	water	ingested
during	exertional-heat	stress	influence	gastrointestinal	injury,	symptoms,	and
systemic	inflammatory	profile?’,	
Journal	of	Science	and	Medicine	in	Sport,
vol.	21,	no.	8,	pp.	771–6.

Snipe,	R.M.J.,	Khoo,	A.,	Kitic,	C.M.	et	al.,	2018,	‘The	impact	of	exertional-heat
stress	on	gastrointestinal	integrity,	gastrointestinal	symptoms,	systemic
endotoxin	and	cytokine	profile’,	
European	Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
vol.	118,	no.	2,	pp.	389–400.
Tatterson,	A.J.H.,	Hahn,	A.G.,	Martin,	D.T.	et	al.,	2000,	‘Effects	of	heat	stress
on	physiological	responses	and	exercise	performance	in	elite	cyclists’,
Journal	of	Science	and	Medicine	in	Sport,
	vol.	3,	no.	2,	pp.	186–93.
Thomas,	D.T.,	Erdman,	K.A.	&	Burke,	L.M.,	2016,	‘American	College	of	Sports
Medicine	Joint	Position	Statement.	Nutrition	and	Athletic	Performance’,
Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	48,	no.	3,	pp.	543–68.
Tucker,	R.,	Rauch,	L.,	Harley,	Y.X.	et	al.,	2004,	‘Impaired	exercise	performance
in	the	heat	is	associated	with	an	anticipatory	reduction	in	skeletal	muscle
recruitment’	
Pflügers	Archiv:	European	Journal	of	Physiology,
	vol.	448,	no.
4,	pp.	422–30.

Gastrointestinal	disturbances	in
athletes
Dana	M.	Lis	and	Stephanie	K.	Gaskell
We	have	now	established	the	importance	of	good	nutrition	for	health	and
performance.	However,	for	some	people	gastrointestinal	disturbances	can	impact
on	their	ability	to	consume	a	healthy	diet	and	can	also	have	a	substantial	impact
on	their	exercise	performance.	This	chapter	will	highlight	the	prevalence	of
gastrointestinal	disturbances	such	as	bloating,	pain	and	diarrhoea	in	athletes.	The
primary	causes,	modulating	factors	and	common	symptoms	involved	in	exercise-
associated	gastrointestinal	disturbances	will	be	discussed	alongside	nutrition
strategies	to	help	manage	symptoms.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	appreciate	the	prevalence	rates	of	gastrointestinal	disturbances	in	athlete
populations	•	recognise	the	common	symptoms	of	gastrointestinal	disturbances

populations	•	recognise	the	common	symptoms	of	gastrointestinal	disturbances
•	understand	the	primary	causes	and	modulating	factors	of	exercise-associated
gastrointestinal	disturbances	•	identify	nutritional	strategies	to	help	manage
exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	disturbances.
PREVALENCE	OF	GASTROINTESTINAL
SYMPTOMS
Gastrointestinal	symptoms	are	common,	estimated	to	occur	in	approximately
30–70	per	cent	of	athletes	(Costa	
et	al.
	2017),	particularly	endurance	athletes.	In
events	such	as	ultramarathon	running	events	(>42	kilometres)	up	to	85	per	cent
of	athletes	have	reported	gastrointestinal	symptoms	(Costa	
et	al.
	2016).	In
shorter	events,	serious	gastrointestinal	symptoms	are	reported	by	~31	per	cent	of
ironman	competitors	and	to	a	lesser	extent	in	marathon	and	road	cycling	races
(Pfeiffer	
et	al.
	2012).	The	severity	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms	varies	and	is
usually	associated	with	three	main	triggers:	physiological,	mechanical	and
nutritional.	Athletes	may	also	be	genetically	predisposed	to	experience
gastrointestinal	symptoms.	There	are	several	training	and	nutrition	strategies	that
can	be	implemented	to	reduce	the	potentially	detrimental	impact	of	moderate
and	more	severe	gastrointestinal	symptoms	on	training	capacity,	nutritional
intake	and	performance.
COMMON	GASTROINTESTINAL	SYMPTOMS
When	examining	the	effects	of	exercise	on	organs	and	system	function,	the
gastrointestinal	system	is	commonly	divided	into	two	sections.	The	upper
gastrointestinal	section	comprises	the	buccal	cavity	(mouth),	pharynx,
oesophagus,	stomach	and	duodenum	(beginning	of	small	intestine).	The	lower
gastrointestinal	section	includes	the	small	intestine	(duodenum,	jejunum,	ileum),
where	the	majority	of	digestion	occurs,	and	the	colon	(for	more	information	on
the	anatomy	and	physiology	of	the	digestive	system,	see	
Chapter	3
).	In	both	the
upper	and	lower	gastrointestinal	areas	mechanical	forces,	altered	gastrointestinal
blood	flow,	nutritional	intake	and	
neuroendocrine
	changes	associated	with
strenuous	endurance	exercise	can	trigger	or	augment	gastrointestinal	symptoms.
Neuroendocrine

Relating	to	interactions	between	the	neural	and	endocrine	system,	particularly	relating	to	hormones.
Exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms	may	be	experienced	during
exercise	or	the	few	hours	afterwards,	with	the	cause	not	being	entirely
understood.	Symptoms	range	in	severity,	type	and	duration.	Preventing	and
managing	symptoms	is	challenging	because	episodes	of	distress	are	short-lived
and	difficult	to	replicate.	Most	symptom	occurrences	are	reported	as	mild	to
moderate	in	severity	with	a	likely	negligible	impact	on	training	capacity	or
performance.	Symptoms	of	greater	severity,	such	as	diarrhoea	or	debilitating
cramps	during	a	race,	are	more	likely	to	have	a	detrimental	effect	on	athletic
performance	than	is	minor	bloating.	The	most	commonly	monitored	and
reported	symptoms	include:	Upper	gastrointestinal:
•	belching
•	bloating
•	gastroesophageal	reflux	disorder	(GORD)	•	nausea
•	vomiting.
Lower	gastrointestinal:
•	abdominal	cramps
•	side	ache
•	flatulence
•	urge	to	defecate
•	diarrhoea	(runner’s	trots)
•	intestinal	bleeding	(indicated	by	blood	in	the	stool).
FUNCTIONAL	GASTROINTESTINAL
DISORDERS
Several	exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms	are	similar	to	symptoms
experienced	in	functional	gastrointestinal	disorders	(FGIDs).	Although	FGIDs
are	primarily	managed	by	clinical	dietitians	and	other	relevant	medical
professionals,	a	basic	understanding	of	these	conditions	is	important	as	some
athletes	may	have	these	conditions,	diagnosed	or	undiagnosed.	It	is	also	possible
that	repeated	and	persistent	stress	placed	on	the	gut	during	strenuous	exercise
may	compromise	normal	gastrointestinal	system	functioning	resulting	in
abnormalities	similar	to	FGID.
FGIDs	are	considered	disorders	of	gut–brain	interaction	and	are	classified	by
a	range	of	recurrent	or	persistent	gastrointestinal	symptoms.	Diagnosis	is	made

by	identification	of	structural	and	physiological	abnormalities,	often	presenting
in	a	combination	of	abnormal	intestinal	contractions,	
visceral	hypersensitivity
and	alterations	in	the	gut	lining,	
gut	microbiota
,	immune	function	and	central
nervous	system	functioning.	In	clinical	settings,	psychological	therapy	such	as
cognitive	behavioural	therapy	may	be	a	component	of	the	overall	FGID
treatment	plan.
Visceral	hypersensitivity
Heightened	sensation	of	pain	in	the	internal	organs.
Gut	microbiota
Microbe	population	living	in	the	large	intestine.
Irritable	bowel	syndrome	(IBS)	is	one	of	the	most	common	FGIDs	and	is
estimated	to	affect	15	per	cent	of	the	Western	population.	More	common	in
females,	IBS	is	a	chronic	condition	that	can	occur	at	any	age,	with	episodes	that
vary	in	frequency	and	severity.	Symptoms	of	IBS	may	include	abdominal	pain,
bloating,	abnormal/delayed	bowel	movements,	constipation	or	diarrhoea,	with
no	obvious	structural	or	physiological	abnormalities	in	the	gut.	Several	IBS
symptoms	are	very	similar	to	exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms	such
as	bloating,	cramping	and	diarrhoea.
PATHOLOGY	OF	GASTROINTESTINAL
SYMPTOMS
Exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms	are	primarily	related	to
physiological,	mechanical	and	nutritional	triggers.	
Exercise-associated
gastrointestinal	syndrome
	describes	the	physiological	responses	and	symptoms
that	occur	due	to	exercise	and	may	subsequently	impair	gastrointestinal	system
function.	There	are	two	main	pathways	thought	to	be	involved	in	this	syndrome:
splanchnic	hypoperfusion
	and	neuroendocrine-gastrointestinal	changes.
Exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	syndrome
Describes	the	physiological	responses	that	occur	due	to	exercise,	which	may	compromise	gastrointestinal
system	function	and	gastrointestinal	barrier	integrity	and	trigger	adverse	symptoms.

Splanchnic	hypoperfusion
Splanchnic	circulation	refers	to	blood	flow	through	the	stomach,	small	intestine,	colon,	pancreas,	liver
and	spleen.	Hypoperfusion	refers	to	
low
	or	
decreased
	flow	of	fluid	through	the	circulatory	system.
During	exercise,	blood	flow	to	the	splanchnic	area	(gastrointestinal	organs)	is	decreased	and	instead
shunted	to	working	muscles.
Epithelial	barrier
Surface	cells	lining	the	gastrointestinal	tract.
Physiological
Exercise	intensity,	duration	and	load
Several	physiological	changes	that	occur	in	the	gastrointestinal	system	during
exercise	are	dependent	on	exercise	intensity.	More	strenuous	and	longer-duration
exercise	generally	results	in	greater	alterations	in	gastrointestinal	function	and
subsequent	symptoms.	At	exercise	intensities	ranging	from	70–80	per	cent	of
maximal	intensity	or	higher,	physiological	changes	such	as	reduced	splanchnic
blood	flow,	impaired	nutrient	absorption	and	delayed	gastric	emptying	occur.
Damage	to	the	
epithelial	barrier
	increases	permeability,	allowing	bacterial
endotoxins	to	enter	the	gut	(Dokladny	
et	al.
	2016).	Gastrointestinal	injury	can
further	compromise	nutrient	absorption,	which	has	been	shown	in	athletes
running	for	one	hour	at	70	per	cent	VO
2max
	(Lang	
et	al.
	2006).	In	addition,
delayed	gastric	emptying	may	reduce	intestinal	fluid	absorption	and	absorption
of	nutrients.
Longer	endurance	events	are	associated	with	a	higher	incidence	and	severity
of	gastrointestinal	disturbances.	Athletes	competing	in	ultra-endurance	events,
compared	with	relatively	shorter	events	such	as	the	marathon,	report	greater
rates	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms.	For	example,	in	a	24-hour	continuous
ultramarathon	race	85	per	cent	of	participants	reported	gastrointestinal
complaints	(Costa	
et	al.
	2017).	Although	methodological	differences	in	studies
make	it	difficult	to	quantify	and	compare	rates	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms,
symptom	rates	and	severity	seem	to	be	lower	in	shorter	events.	It	is	important	to
understand	that	most	symptoms	experienced	by	athletes	are	minor	or	moderate
and,	although	uncomfortable,	do	not	have	detrimental	implications	for

performance.	Severe	symptoms	may	have	a	more	substantial	impact	on
performance.
Gastrointestinal	disturbances	occur	not	only	in	competition	but	also	in	training
for	many	athletes,	and	can	compromise	their	training	capacity.	Strategies	for
reducing	the	
impact	of	this	are	outlined	below.	However,	it	is	important	to
consider	that	athletes	with	a	high	training	load	and	multiple	training	sessions
each	day	may	experience	recurrent	gastrointestinal	disturbances.	The	reason	for
this	may	be	that	the	time	between	strenuous	training	bouts	is	less	than	the	4–5
days	required	for	intestinal	epithelial	repair.	More	research	is	needed	to	identify
whether	repeated	exercise	stress	impairs	gastrointestinal	function	in	a	prolonged
manner,	or	increases	susceptibility	to	dietary	triggers.
Splanchnic	hypoperfusion
During	exercise,	particularly	endurance-type	exercise	at	higher	intensity,	blood
flow	is	redistributed	to	the	working	muscles	and	away	from	the	gastrointestinal
organs.	Blood	flow	to	the	gut	can	be	reduced	by	up	to	80	per	cent	during
strenuous	exercise	(Rehrer	
et	al.
	2001),	which	causes	epithelial	barrier	injury
and	increased	permeability.	Further,	alterations	in	the	movement	of	endotoxins
across	the	epithelial	barrier	can	initiate	an	inflammatory	response.
Factors	that	contribute	to	splanchnic	hypoperfusion	include:
•	exercise	intensity
•	duration	of	exercise
•	dehydration	during	exercise
•	heat	stress.
Neuroendocrine
Exercise	stress	activates	the	sympathetic	nervous	system—this	is	the	part	of	the
nervous	system	that	initiates	the	fight-or-flight	response,	in	which	blood	flow	is
shunted	from	the	gastrointestinal	tract	to	working	muscles.	This	then	activates
the	neuroendocrine-gastrointestinal	pathway,	where	hormones	are	secreted	that
impact	on	gut	function.	There	is	an	increase	in	stress	hormone	secretion,	which
may	alter	gut	motility	and	function.	An	important	interplay	between	exercise-
associated	stress	response	and	gut	microbiota	is	increasingly	recognised	as	a
contributing	factor	in	exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	disturbances	and
overall	gastrointestinal	health.
Environment

The	risk	of	intestinal	injury	and	increased	permeability	is	greater	in	hot	climatic
conditions	(>37°C).	Exercising	in	the	heat	increases	total	body	water	loss	(see
Chapter	22
),	leading	to	a	decrease	in	plasma	volume	and	a	further	reduction	of
blood	flow	to	the	gut.	Heat	stress	and	dehydration	may	exacerbate	intestinal
injury,	increasing	the	risk	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms.	In	one	study,	the
incidence	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms	increased	when	runners	lost	3.5–4	per
cent	of	body	weight	(Rehrer	
et	al.
	1990).	While	exercise	in	the	heat	and
accompanying	dehydration	may	worsen	gastrointestinal	injury	and	permeability,
it	is	not	known	whether	this	is	a	direct	cause	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms.
To	minimise	the	impact	of	heat	on	gastrointestinal	stress	during	exercise,	a
carefully	planned	hydration	regime	should	be	implemented	based	on	measured
sweat	rates	and	calculated	fluid	requirements.	It	is	also	important	to	note	that
hyperhydration,	or	over-hydrating,	may	cause	an	uncomfortable	‘sloshing’
sensation	in	the	stomach.	For	this	reason,	too	much	fluid	consumption	is	also	ill-
advised.	Exercise-associated	hyponatraemia—where	too	much	water	is	ingested
and	blood	sodium	concentrations	become	abnormally	low—has	been	linked	to
gastrointestinal	symptoms,	particularly	nausea	and	vomiting.	Beginning	exercise
in	a	euhydrated	state	and	aiming	to	maintain	a	fluid	loss	of	less	than	two	per	cent
of	body	weight	is	ideal.
Mechanical
Gastrointestinal	disturbances,	particularly	lower	gastrointestinal	symptoms,	are
more	common	in	exercise	that	has	a	greater	mechanical	impact,	such	as	running
or	triathlon	(Pfeiffer	
et	al.
	2012).	The	mechanical	jarring	(up-and-down	motion)
of	running	is	a	possible	trigger	for	gastrointestinal	symptoms.	Upper
gastrointestinal	symptoms	seem	to	be	more	common	in	cycling	due	to	the	bent-
over	body	position,	which	places	pressure	on	the	abdominal	area.	Technique-
related	breathing	in	swimming	may	result	in	swallowing	air.	It	is	normal	to
swallow	small	amounts	of	air;	however,	in	swimming,	air	may	be	gulped	and,
combined	with	a	horizontal	body	position,	can	be	difficult	to	expel,	causing
certain	upper	gastrointestinal	symptoms	(bloating,	burping,	stomach	pain).
Nutrition
Athletes	trial	various	nutrition	strategies	around	training	and	competition	with
the	aim	of	individualising	and	optimising	fuelling	as	well	as	to	reduce	the	risk	of
gastrointestinal	disturbance.	Common	pre-emptive	nutrition	strategies	to	prevent

gastrointestinal	disturbance.	Common	pre-emptive	nutrition	strategies	to	prevent
or	minimise	gastrointestinal	symptoms	include	reduced	dietary	fibre	intake,
decreased	fat	and	protein	intake,	adjusting	food	timing	and	training	the	gut	to
tolerate	greater	carbohydrate	and	fluid	loads.
Athletes	are	advised	to	‘train	race-day	nutrition’.	Ideally,	competition
nutrition	strategies	should	be	similar	to	those	used	in	specific	training	sessions.
Competition-specific	strategies	aimed	at	reducing	race-day	gastrointestinal
disturbances	may	include	a	short-term	
low-residue	diet
,	avoiding	lactose	the
day	before	a	competition,	or	modifying	carbohydrates	by	increasing	or	reducing
intake	or	changing	the	carbohydrate	type.	For	example,	athletes	may	avoid
fructose	or	choose	formulated	sports	nutrition	products	with	multitransporter
carbohydrates	(maltodextrin,	glucose,	fructose	blends).	It	is	important	to
consider	that,	in	some	events,	feed	stations	may	offer	a	variety	of	foods	
and
fluids	an	athlete	may	not	be	familiar	with.	A	less-experienced	athlete	may
consume	fuel	options	that	they	have	not	tried	before	or	may	overfuel	due	to
inexperience	or	a	fear	of	‘
bonking
’.	Competition	nutrition	plans	should	be	tested
in	training	sessions	of	similar	intensity	and	in	similar	climatic	conditions.
Logistical	challenges	and	the	additional	stress	of	race	situations	may	alter	even
the	best-laid	nutrition	plans.	The	following	sections	elaborate	on	nutrition
strategies	for	exercise	to	reduce	the	risk	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms	around	and
during	training	and	competition.
Bonking
An	athletic	term	describing	a	sudden	and	overwhelming	feeling	of	running	out	of	energy—often	also
termed	‘hitting	the	wall’—during	endurance	events.
Low-residue	diet
Diet	limiting	higher-fibre	foods.
Fibre,	fat	and	protein
Conclusive	links	between	gastrointestinal	symptoms	and	intakes	of	dietary	fat,
protein	and	fibre	have	not	been	drawn,	even	though	several	studies	have
attempted	to	connect	exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms	with	certain
macronutrients,	quantities	and	timing.	One	of	the	first	studies	investigating
dietary	habits	and	the	prevalence	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms	during	endurance
competition	found	that	athletes	who	consumed	foods	high	in	dietary	fibre,	fat	or
protein	before	competition	reported	a	higher	prevalence	of	gastrointestinal
symptoms,	notably	vomiting	and	reflux	(Rehrer	
et	al.
	1992).	However,	this	data

was	collected	retrospectively	so	there	is	potential	error	associated	with	athletes’
recall	(refer	to	
Chapter	7
	for	more	information	about	dietary	assessment).	More
recently,	protein	hydrolysate	intake	before	and	during	exercise	has	been	shown
to	be	poorly	tolerated	and	associated	with	higher	rates	of	gastrointestinal
disturbance	(Snipe	
et	al.
	2018).	Conversely,	a	prospective	study	in	triathletes
found	no	association	of	fibre,	fat	or	protein	intake	with	gastrointestinal
symptoms	during	the	cycle	and	run	leg	of	a	70.3	triathlon	(Rehrer	
et	al.
	1992).
Due	to	the	transient	nature	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms,	and	large	individual
variation	in	dietary	intakes,	it	is	difficult	to	draw	firm	conclusions	about	the
effects	of	fibre,	protein	and	fat	on	exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms.
However,	in	the	field	practitioners	will	generally	advise	low	fibre,	low	fat	and
moderate	protein	intakes	around	competition.	Tailored,	individualised	nutrition
is	likely	the	key	to	successful	macronutrient	choices	before,	during	and	after
exercise	when	aiming	to	moderate	gastrointestinal	disturbances.
Meal	timing
Limited	information	exists	linking	meal	timing	with	gastrointestinal	symptoms.
Several	studies	have	attempted	to	explore	how	meal	timing	influences
gastrointestinal	symptoms	and,	based	on	these,	it	is	suggested	that	solid	food
consumed	close	to	the	start	of	endurance	exercise	may	increase	upper
gastrointestinal	symptoms.	Based	on	limited	research	and	anecdotal	evidence	it
can	be	suggested	that	athletes	aiming	to	
reduce	gastrointestinal	disturbance	may
have	better	success	with	easier-to-digest	liquid	fuelling	options	ingested	closer	to
the	start	of	exercise,	rather	than	solids.	However,	ideal	meal	timing	generally
requires	testing	and	individualisation.
Gluten-free	diet
In	recent	years	gluten-free	diets	(GFDs)	have	become	popular	among	athletes,
with	a	prevalent	belief	that	this	diet	reduces	gastrointestinal	symptoms,	improves
overall	health	and	even	offers	an	ergogenic	benefit,	although	supportive
evidence	is	lacking.	Briefly,	a	GFD	restricts	a	family	of	gluten-related	proteins
found	mainly	in	food	or	constituents	derived	from	wheat,	rye	and	barley.	While
it	is	interesting	to	consider	that	perhaps	endurance	athletes	training	and
competing	frequently	at	high	intensities	may	develop	an	increased	susceptibility
to	dietary	triggers,	such	as	gluten,	this	has	not	been	shown	in	research.	A	greater
awareness	and	improved	diagnostics	for	clinical	gluten-related	conditions
(
coeliac	disease
,	
noncoeliac	gluten/wheat	sensitivity
)	may	also	influence	the
increasing	number	of	athletes	going	gluten-free.	Self-prescription	of	a	GFD	is
common—partly	due	to	the	lack	of	a	definitive	biomarker	for	noncoeliac	gluten/

wheat	sensitivity—and	is	also	a	contributing	factor	to	the	increased	uptake	of
this	diet	in	healthy	athletic	populations.	It	is	imperative	to	consider	any	clinical
necessity	for	a	GFD,	but	it	is	also	important	to	be	aware	of	other	dietary	changes
that	can	happen	alongside	a	GFD	as	well	as	the	belief	effect,	which	may
influence	gastrointestinal	symptom	perceptions.	While	a	strict	GFD	may	provide
less	fibre	and	fewer	micronutrients,	Lis	
et	al.
	(2015)	found	that	after	switching	to
a	GFD	subjects	exhibited	increased	consumption	of	fruit,	vegetables	and	gluten-
free	wholegrains,	and	an	overall	greater	awareness	and	implementation	of	a
healthy	eating	pattern.	One	distinct	dietary	change	that	may	naturally	take	place
alongside	the	adoption	of	a	GFD	is	a	subsequent	reduction	in	short-chain	rapidly
fermentable	carbohydrates	(fermentable	oligosaccharides,	disaccharides,
monosaccharides	and	polyols,	or	FODMAPs),	specifically	fructans	and
galactooligosaccharides.
Coeliac	disease
Autoimmune	disease	in	which	the	immune	system	reacts	abnormally	to	gluten,	causing	damage	to	the
small	intestine.
Noncoeliac	gluten/wheat	sensitivity
A	condition	characterised	by	adverse	gastrointestinal	and/or	extra-intestinal	symptoms	associated	with
the	ingestion	of	gluten-or	wheat-containing	foods,	in	the	absence	of	coeliac	disease	or	wheat	allergy.
FODMAPs
In	athletes	reporting	symptomatic	improvement	after	implementing	a	GFD,	it
may	be	the	subsequent	reduction	in	some	FODMAPs	(rather	than	in	gluten)	that
is	actually	alleviating	symptoms.	FODMAPs	are	a	family	of	short-chain
fermentable	carbohydrates	that	are	slowly	or	poorly	absorbed	in	the	upper
intestinal	tract	and	rapidly	fermented	by	colonic	bacteria.	In	the	upper	intestine
in	particular,	unabsorbed	
FODMAPs	may	exert	an	
osmotic	effect
,	which	means
more	fluid	is	drawn	into	the	bowel.	Combined	with	rapid	fermentation	of
FODMAPs	by	gas-producing	colonic	bacteria,	fluid	and	gas	distend	the	bowel.
As	a	result,	bloating,	abdominal	pain,	flatulence	and	alterations	in	bowel
movement	occur.	A	low-FODMAP	diet,	developed	by	researchers	at	Monash
University	(Melbourne,	Australia),	has	shown	promising	results	for	the
effectiveness	of	FODMAP	restriction	and	reintroduction	in	clinical	patients,
such	as	those	with	IBS.
Many	athletes	avoid	foods	high	in	FODMAPs	(Lis	
et	al.
	2015),	such	as	milk
or	legumes,	with	the	aim	of	reducing	gastrointestinal	symptoms,	and	there	is	a

high	rate	of	perceived	symptom	improvement.	Repeated	exercise	stress	placed
on	the	gut,	combined	with	high	carbohydrate	intakes	and	high	FODMAP	loads
present	in	many	sports	foods,	may	create	the	perfect	storm	for	FODMAPs	to
exacerbate	exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms.	Healthy	endurance
athletes	with	exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms	do	not	intrinsically
require	a	low-FODMAP	diet,	but	it	may	be	a	tool	that	can	be	used	to	reduce
symptoms	in	susceptible	individuals.
Osmotic	effect
The	movement	of	water	molecules	from	a	higher	water	potential	to	a	more	negative	water	potential.
Fructose
Athletes,	particularly	endurance	athletes,	may	have	higher	than	average	dietary
intakes	of	fructose.	Elevated	energy	requirements	may	be	partially	met	through
increased	consumption	of	fruit,	juice,	honey	and	sports	foods	(gels,	beverages),
all	of	which	are	high	in	fructose.	Fructose	is	normally	absorbed	in	the	small
intestine	by	intestinal	transporters,	low-capacity	facilitated	diffusion	GLUT	5
and	a	glucose-activated	more	rapid	diffusion,	GLUT	2.	Malabsorption	of
fructose	can	occur	when	the	activity	of	one	of	these	transporters,	GLUT	5,
becomes	saturated.	Some	individuals	have	a	condition	known	as	fructose
malabsorption,	in	which	fructose	is	not	fully	absorbed,	exerting	an	osmotic
effect	and	then	being	fermented	by	colonic	bacteria	and	influencing
gastrointestinal	symptoms.	It	is	possible	that	athletes	ingesting	large	amounts	of
high-fructose	foods	may	experience	some	fructose	malabsorption,	resulting	in
gastrointestinal	symptoms.	Fructose	absorption	can	be	improved	by	ingesting
less	of	this	monosaccharide,	and	also	by	consuming	it	as	a	component	of	foods
or	meals	containing	other	nutrients.
Osmolality,	carbohydrate	intake	and	type
Ingestion	of	carbohydrate	solutions	with	a	high	osmolality	(that	is,	having	a	high
concentration	of	molecules	in	a	solution,	also	known	as	hyperosmolar)	has	been
associated	with	gastrointestinal	symptoms	during	exercise.	Gastric	emptying	and
intestinal	
fluid	absorption	are	reduced	when	carbohydrate	concentration	in
solution	is	greater	than	six	per	cent.
The	ingestion	of	multiple	carbohydrate	types	increases	the	oxidation	of
ingested	carbohydrate,	improving	fuel	availability	and	also	possibly	decreasing
gastrointestinal	symptoms.	Large	amounts	of	carbohydrate	consumed	during

exercise	may	be	incompletely	absorbed,	particularly	if	the	carbohydrate	load	is
only	from	one	carbohydrate	type	(such	as	glucose).	Leftover	carbohydrate
remaining	in	the	intestine	can	exacerbate	gastrointestinal	symptoms	through
osmotic	actions.	Some	examples	of	multiple	transportable	carbohydrates	include
a	blend	of	glucose:fructose	at	a	2:1	ratio,	maltodextrin	and	fructose,	or	glucose,
sucrose	and	fructose.	A	series	of	studies	have	shown	that—provided	there	are
multiple	carbohydrate	types	ingested,	such	as	glucose	and	fructose—high	rates
of	carbohydrate	(90	g·h
–1
)	can	be	fairly	well	tolerated.	Although	a	higher
reported	incidence	of	nausea	occurred	when	the	athletes	ingested	90	g·h
–1
compared	to	60	g·h
–1
,	the	exercise	was	relatively	short	in	duration	(running	for
70	minutes)	and	conducted	in	mild	environmental	conditions	(Pfeiffer	
et	al.
2009).	The	amount	and	type	of	carbohydrate	consumed	by	an	athlete	needs	to	be
individually	
assessed,	although,	importantly,	tolerance	to	carbohydrate	can	be
trained,	as	the	gut	is	somewhat	adaptable.
Figure	23.1.	Carbohydrate	oxidation	rates	from	different	carbohydrate	blends
Note:	Data	are	extrapolated	from	a	number	of	studies.	Increasing	the	intake	of
one	carbohydrate	type	will	plateau	oxidation	at	approximately	1	g/min	and
increasing	the	intake	of	multiple	transportable	carbohydrate	types	increases
oxidation	up	to	1.75	g/min.
Source:	Asker	Jeukendrup,	SSE#108	Multiple	Transportable	Carbohydrates	and	Their	Benefits
(
www.gssiweb.org/en-ca/Article/sse-108-multiple-transportable-carbohydrates-and-their-benefits
).

Figure	23.1
	shows	the	peak	carbohydrate	oxidation	that	can	be	achieved
proportional	to	the	ingested	amount.	Practically,	athletes	can	mix	and	match
carbohydrate	sources	from	drinks,	gels,	bars	and	jelly	lollies	based	on
preferences	and	fuelling	logistics.	For	solid	foods	consumed	during	exercise,
low-fat,	fibre	and	protein	content	is	important	so	that	these	macronutrients	do
not	slow	the	delivery	of	carbohydrate	and	fluids.
Eating	during	exercise
Nutrient	intake	during	exercise	with	impaired	gastrointestinal	function	may
increase	the	risk	of	adverse	symptoms.	However,	frequent	and	consistent
carbohydrate	intake	during	exercise	may	also	be	a	protective	strategy	for
epithelial	injury	(Costa	
et	al.
	2017).
Trainability	of	the	gut
Gastrointestinal	symptoms	are	more	frequent	in	novice	athletes	with	less
training.	Training	lessens	the	reduction	of	splanchnic	blood	flow,	improving	gut
barrier	function	and	likely	reducing	the	risk	of	symptoms.	This	was	recently
demonstrated	in	a	study	where	two	weeks	of	a	repetitive	gut	challenge	involving
the	ingestion	of	high	intakes	of	carbohydrate	during	running	(ten	days	of
ingesting	90	g·h
–1
	for	one	hour	of	60	per	cent	VO
2max
	running)	reduced	the
incidence	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms	experienced	by	recreational	runners
compared	to	a	placebo	(Miall	
et	al.
	2017).	This	point	further	highlights	the
importance	of	‘training	race-day	nutrition’.
Belief	(placebo)	effect
The	belief/placebo	effect	is	where	the	belief	in	a	positive	effect	of	an
intervention	improves	a	range	of	outcomes,	such	as	perceived	gastrointestinal
symptoms.	Several	studies	have	shown	that	the	placebo	effect	decreased
symptoms	in	patients	with	IBS.	Similarly,	studies	on	athletes	have	shown	the
placebo	effect	(the	belief	that	an	intervention	will	improve	performance)	to	have
beneficial	outcomes.
History	of	gastrointestinal	symptoms	and	genetic	predisposition	There	appears	to
be	a	genetic	predisposition	to	gastrointestinal	symptoms,	and	those	with	a	history
of	gastrointestinal	symptoms	are	more	susceptible	to	recurrent	gastrointestinal
disturbance.
Chronic	low	energy	availability
Clinical	and	anecdotal	data	suggest	that	athletes	experiencing	chronic	low
energy	availability	report	a	high	incidence	of	gastrointestinal	disturbances.	This

energy	availability	report	a	high	incidence	of	gastrointestinal	disturbances.	This
area	has	not	been	well	studied	but,	theoretically,	limited	nutrient	intake	may
compromise	the	ability	to	absorb	or	tolerate	nutrients	and	increase	susceptibly	to
adverse	symptoms.
Medications	and	supplements
Particular	medications	and	supplements	can	interfere	with	the	gastrointestinal
system	and	influence	symptoms.	Non-steroidal	anti-inflammatory	drugs
(NSAIDs)	are	commonly	used	by	athletes	to	manage	pain	and	swelling	and
reduce	the	impact	of	injury	on	performance.	There	is	an	associated	three-to
fivefold	increased	risk	of	upper	gastrointestinal	disturbances	such	as	GORD	and
gastritis,	mucosal	bleeding	or	perforation	when	using	anti-inflammatory	drugs
compared	to	no	medication	(Van	Wijck	
et	al.
	2012).	It	is	recommended	that
prolonged	use	of	NSAIDs	and	use	prior	to	exercise	be	avoided.
Nerve	and	muscle	activity	of	the	large	intestine	can	be	affected	by
supplements	such	as	high-dose	iron,	leading	to	constipation.	Antibiotics	and	high
doses	of	magnesium	can	cause	diarrhoea	and	high	doses	of	vitamin	C	can	cause
digestive	symptoms,	including	abdominal	cramps,	pain	and	diarrhoea.
Psychological	stress
Stress,	fatigue	and	mood	disturbances	commonly	occur	alongside
gastrointestinal	disturbances	in	athletes.	Often,	athletes	experience
gastrointestinal	disturbances	only	around	race	situations,	where	stress	and
anxiety	levels	are	higher	compared	to	training.	The	psychological	demands	of
intense	exercise	can	initiate	a	stress	response,	resulting	in	stress	and	the	release
of	hormones	initiating	a	fight-or-flight	response.	Additionally,	a	complex
interplay	between	these	biochemical	changes	and	gastrointestinal	microbiotia	is
thought	to	reciprocally	influence	gastrointestinal	symptoms.	In	some	cases,
mental	training	to	address	stress	and	coping	mechanisms	may	be	part	of	an
athlete’s	toolbox	to	treat	gastrointestinal	disturbances.
NUTRITION	ADVICE	FOR	ATHLETES	WITH
GASTROINTESTINAL	DISTURBANCES
Gastrointestinal	disturbances	in	athletes	is	multifactorial	in	nature	and	its	dietary
management	requires	individualisation.	The	following	table	outlines	several
dietary	strategies	to	treat	gastrointestinal	disturbances	in	athletes.	These	tools
may	be	helpful;	however,	the	advice	of	an	Accredited	Sports	Dietitian	with
specialised	training	in	gastrointestinal	nutrition	is	recommended.	Furthermore,	in

specialised	training	in	gastrointestinal	nutrition	is	recommended.	Furthermore,	in
cases	of	persistent	gastrointestinal	symptoms,	both	at	rest	and	during	exercise,
the	advice	of	a	medical	professional	should	be	sought	to	determine	possible
underlying	clinical	conditions.
Table	23.1.	Dietary	management	tools	to	prevent	gastrointestinal
symptoms
*
Dietary	and/or	other	management
recommendations
Gastrointestinal
symptoms	that	may
be	avoided
Avoid	gulping	fluids	during	training	or	competition.
Use	breathing	techniques	that	avoid	swallowing	air.
Avoid	carbonated	beverages.
Belching
Avoid	agents	that	relax	the	lower	oesophageal
sphincter,	such	as	caffeine,	mint,	chocolate	and
alcohol.
Belching
GORD
Aim	to	eat	~2–4	hours	prior	to	training	or
competition.	Shorter	times	between	eating	and
exercise	start	may	increase	risk	of	adverse
gastrointestinal	effects.	As	a	general	rule,	the	closer
nutrition	is	taken	to	the	start	time	the	smaller	the
amount	of	food	or	fluid	that	should	be	ingested.
Liquid	nutrition	options,	such	as	meal	supplements,
may	be	better	tolerated	than	solids.
GORD
Vomiting
Bloating
Side	ache	/	cramp
Urge	to	defecate
Diarrhoea,	runner’s
trots
Consume	easy-to-digest,	low-fibre,	low-fat	and	low-
to	moderate-protein	meals/snacks	prior	to	exercise
and	as	much	as	24	hours	leading	up	to	competition.
GORD
Vomiting
Bloating
Side	ache	/	cramp
Urge	to	defecate
Diarrhoea,	runner’s
trots
Flatulence
Choose	carbohydrate	solutions	with	a	lower
concentration	or	osmolality	along	with	ingesting
sufficient	water.
GORD
Vomiting
Bloating
Flatulence

Flatulence
Nausea
Start	exercise	euhydrated	and	aim	to	minimise	body
weight	loss	(to	within	<2%	body	weight).	Avoid
over-hydrating.
Vomiting
Bloating
Nausea
Avoid	over-nutrition	prior	to	and	during	exercise	by
having	an	individualised	and	tested	nutrition	plan
based	on	energy	and	nutrient	demands.
Vomiting
Bloating
Nausea
Flatulence
Gut	training:	The	gastrointestinal	system	is	adaptable
and	its	capacity	to	uptake	fluid	and	nutrients	can	be
increased	with	training.	Train	with	carbohydrate	and
fluid	during	exercise	to	improve	absorption	and
identify	individual	tolerances.	A	focused
carbohydrate	challenge	protocol,	with	increasing
amounts,	may	improve	gastrointestinal	tolerance	and
reduce	related	symptoms.	It	is	best	to	seek	advice	on
such	a	protocol	from	a	qualified	sports	nutrition
practitioner.
Vomiting
Bloating
Nausea
Flatulence
Belching
Side	ache	/	cramp
Diarrhoea,	runner’s
trots
Consume	low-fibre	or	low-residue	foods	for	1–2	days
leading	up	to	the	event.
Bloating
Flatulence
Side	ache	/	cramp
Urge	to	defecate
Diarrhoea,	runner’s
trots
Allow	time	for	toilet	stops	before	competition	or
training.
Urge	to	defecate
Consume	a	low-FODMAP	diet	for	at	least	24	hours
before	strenuous	training	or	competition.	High-
FODMAP	foods	eaten	before	or	during	exercise	may
have	a	detrimental	additive	effect	on	gastrointestinal
symptoms.
Osmotic	diarrhoea
Bloating
Flatulence
Some	may	benefit	from	cognitive	behavioural
therapy;	see	an	allied	health	professional	trained	in
this	technique.
Diarrhoea,	runner’s
trots

this	technique.
Special	situations
Heat
Heat	stress	is	known
to	increase
gastrointestinal
injury,	splanchnic
hypoperfusion	and
hypoxia,	which	may
worsen	symptoms.
Heat	acclimation,
external	and	internal
pre-exercise/	during-
exercise	cooling	may
also	improve	gut
health,	although	to
date	research	is
limited	and
conflicting.
Limited	fluid	access	during	exercise
Recent	research
suggests	that	some
adaptation	may	occur
to	training
dehydrated.
Caffeine
Caffeine	can	increase
colon	motility
(movement	of	food),
which	could	be
additive	to	the
mechanical	impact	of
running	leading	to
diarrhoea.
Nitrate
May	improve
splanchnic	perfusion.
Other	recommendations:
	Ingesting	sufficient	water
and	nutrients	during	prolonged	exercise	can	help

maintain	splanchnic	blood	flow	and	reduce	the	risk	of
gut	symptoms.	Consumption	of	solutions	with
multiple	carbohydrate	types	(glucose,	maltodextrin,
fructose)	may	reduce	the	risk	of	gastrointestinal
symptoms.
*
Recommendations	are	based	on	limited	research	and	may	or	may	not	be	dietary	triggers	for	individuals.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter	you	should	understand	that	gastrointestinal	symptoms
are	common	among	athletes	and	that	although	most	are	minor	or	mild	in
severity,	some	can	be	severe	and	impact	negatively	on	exercise	performance.
Exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms	can	occur	during	or	after	exercise
and	although	the	cause	is	not	entirely	understood	symptoms	are	primarily	related
to	physiological,	mechanical	and	nutritional	factors.	Nutrition	can	play	a	key
role	in	reducing	the	risk	of	common	gastrointestinal	symptoms.
Key	messages
•	Gastrointestinal	disturbances	are	a	common	occurrence	among	athletes	and
severe	symptoms	are	likely	to	compromise	training	capacity	and	performance.
•	The	main	triggers	of	gastrointestinal	disturbances	in	athletes	are	physiological,
mechanical	and	nutritional.
•	Strenuous	exercise,	particularly	endurance-based	exercise,	stresses	the
gastrointestinal	system,	causing	reduced	blood	flow	which	initiates	alterations
in	gut	integrity.	Impaired	gastrointestinal	function	is	a	result	of	increased
permeability,	motility	changes,	alterations	in	endotoxin	movement	and
subsequent	systemic	inflammatory	response,	triggering	gastrointestinal
symptoms.
•	An	important	interplay	between	the	gut–brain	axis	influences	gastrointestinal
symptoms	and,	in	some	athletes,	may	be	the	reason	symptoms	are	hard	to
replicate	and	only	occur	in	race	situations	or	may	be	influenced	by
psychological	stress.
•	Exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	disturbance	is	multifactorial,	requiring	an
individualised	and	multidisciplinary	approach	for	successful	treatment.
•	Based	on	current	knowledge,	the	key	nutrition	strategies	that	may	reduce	the
risk	of	gastrointestinal	disturbances	include:	–	Eating	a	low-fibre	or	low-

risk	of	gastrointestinal	disturbances	include:	–	Eating	a	low-fibre	or	low-
residue	diet	in	the	1–2	days	leading	up	to	the	event.
–	Pre-fuelling	strategies	such	as	eating	the	pre-event	meal	~2–4	hours	prior	to
exercise.	It	should	be	easy	to	digest,	low	fibre,	low	fat	and	low	to	moderate
in	protein.
–	Starting	exercise	euhydrated,	aiming	to	minimise	body	weight	loss	during
exercise	and	avoiding	over-hydrating.
–	Avoiding	over-nutrition	(eating	or	drinking	too	much)	prior	to	and	during
exercise	by	implementing	an	individualised	and	tested	nutrition	plan	based
on	energy	and	nutrient	demands.
–	Undertaking	gut	training	to	adapt	the	gut	and	its	capacity	to	uptake	fluid	and
nutrients.
–	Consuming	solutions	with	multiple	carbohydrate	types,	such	as	glucose,
maltodextrin	and	fructose.
REFERENCES
Costa,	R.J.S.,	Snipe,	R.,	Camões-Costa,	V.	et	al.,	2016,	‘The	impact	of
gastrointestinal	symptoms	and	dermatological	injuries	on	nutritional	intake
and	hydration	status	during	ultramarathon	events’,	
Sports	Medicine	Open,
vol.	2,	no.	1,	p.	16,	doi:10.1186/	s40798-015-0041-9.
Costa,	R.J.S.,	Snipe,	R.M.J,	Kitic,	C.M.	et	al.,	2017,	‘Systematic	review:
Exercise-induced	gastrointestinal	syndrome—implications	for	health	and
intestinal	disease’,	
Alimentary	Therapeutics	&	Pharmacology,
	vol.	46,	no.	3,
pp.	246–65.
Dokladny,	K.,	Zuhl,	M.N.	&	Moseley,	P.L.,	2016,	‘Intestinal	epithelial	barrier
function	and	tight	junction	proteins	with	heat	and	exercise’,	
Journal	of
Applied	Physiology
,	vol.	120,	no.	6,	pp.	692–701.
Lang,	J.A.,	Gisolfi,	C.V.	&	Lambert,	G.P.,	2006,	‘Effect	of	exercise	intensity	on
active	and	passive	glucose	absorption’,	
International	Journal	of	Sport
Nutrition	&	Exercise	Metabolism,
	vol.	16,	no.	5,	pp.	485–93.
Lis,	D.,	Stellingwerff,	T.,	Shing,	C.M.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Exploring	the	popularity,
experiences,	and	beliefs	surrounding	gluten-free	diets	in	noncoeliac	athletes’,
International	Journal	of	Sport	Nutrition	&	Exercise	Metabolism,
	vol.	25,	no.
1,	pp.	37–45.
Miall,	A.,	Khoo,	A.,	Rauch,	C.	et	al.,	2017,	‘Two	weeks	of	repetitive	gut-
challenge	reduce	exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	symptoms	and
malabsorption’,	
Scandinavian	Journal	of	Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports,
	vol.
20,	no.	2,	pp.	630–40.

Pfeiffer,	B.,	Cotterill,	A.,	Grathwohl,	D.	et	al.,	2009,	‘The	effect	of	carbohydrate
gels	on	gastrointestinal	tolerance	during	a	16km	run’,	
International	Journal	of
Sport	Nutrition	&	Exercise	Metabolism,
	vol.	19,	no.	5,	pp.	485–503.
Pfeiffer,	B.,	Stellingwerff,	T.,	Hodgson,	A.B.	et	al.,	2012,	‘Nutritional	intake	and
gastrointestinal	problems	during	competitive	endurance	events’,	
Medicine	&
Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	44,	no.	2,	pp.	344–51.
Rehrer,	N.J.,	Beckers,	E.J.,	Brouns,	F.	et	al.,	1990,	‘Effects	of	dehydration	on
gastric	emptying	and	gastrointestinal	distress	while	running’,	
Medicine	&
Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	22,	no.	6,	pp.	790–95.
Rehrer,	N.J.,	van	Kemenade,	M.,	Meester,	W.	et	al.,	1992,	‘Gastrointestinal
complaints	in	relation	to	dietary	intake	in	triathletes’,	
International	Journal	of
Sports	Nutrition,
	vol.	2,	no.	1,	pp.	48–59.
Rehrer,	N.J.,	Smets,	A.,	Reynaert,	H.	et	al.,	2001,	‘Effect	of	exercise	on	portal
vein	blood	flow	in	man’,	
Medicine	&	Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	33,
no.	9,	pp.	1533–37.
Snipe,	R.M.J.,	Khoo,	A.,	Kitic,	C.M.	et	al.,	2018,	‘The	impact	of	exertional-heat
stress	on	gastrointestinal	integrity,	gastrointestinal	symptoms,	systemic
endotoxin	and	cytokine	profile’,	
European	Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
vol.	118,	no.	2,	pp.	389–400.
van	Wijck,	K.,	Lenaerts,	K.,	Van	Bijnen,	A.A.	et	al.,	2012,	‘Aggravation	of
exercise-induced	intestinal	injury	by	Ibuprofen	in	athletes’,	
Medicine	&
Science	in	Sports	&	Exercise,
	vol.	44,	no.	12,	pp.	2257–62.

Nutrition	support	for	injury
management	and	rehabilitation
Rebekah	Alcock	and	Greg	Shaw
Injuries	are	an	unfortunate	reality	of	both	recreational	and	professional	sports.	In
2011–12,	the	Australian	Institute	of	Health	and	Welfare	(AIHW)	reported	that
36,000	people	aged	over	15	years	were	hospitalised	as	a	result	of	a	sporting
injury	(AIHW	2014),	with	the	annual	cost	of	sporting	injuries	in	Australia
estimated	to	be	over	$1.5	billion	(Medibank	2003).	At	an	elite	level,	the	impact
of	sporting	injuries	can	be	significant,	often	having	various	physical,
psychological,	professional	and	economic	consequences	for	both	the	athlete	and
the	organisation	that	contracts	them.	Injuries	range	from	minor	(cuts	and
abrasions),	through	moderate	to	severe	(such	as	musculoskeletal	and	connective
tissue	injuries),	including	the	small	number	that	have	life-long	implications	(for
example,	concussion).	Depending	on	the	type	and	severity	of	injury,	the
consequences	may	range	from	immediate	but	short-term	cessation	of	sport	to
weeks,	months	or	even	years	away	from	training	and	competition.

While	rehabilitation	strategies	have	been	developed	in	physical	therapy,
medicine	and	psychology,	nutrition	interventions	are	often	focused
predominantly	on	controlling	body	composition.	However,	nutrition
interventions	outside	of	body	composition	management	can	play	an	important
role	during	the	rehabilitation	phase	for	an	injured	athlete,	and	can	influence	their
ability	to	return	to	training	and	competition.	Nutrition	strategies	for	injury
rehabilitation	should	focus	on	supporting	tissue	regeneration,	attenuating	the
effects	of	immobilisation	on	the	musculoskeletal	system	and	minimising
unnecessary	body	composition	changes	associated	with	reduced	training	loads.
Finally,	and	most	importantly,	any	rehabilitation	program	should	ensure	the
athlete	is	returned	to	competitive	sport	in	a	state	that	is	similar	to	or	better	than
pre-injury	functioning	where	possible.	The	following	chapter	will	give	an
overview	of	nutrition	considerations	in	the	management	of	injuries.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	should	be	able	to:
•	understand	the	influence	adequate	nutrition	has	in	preventing	load-related
injuries
•	understand	the	timeline	of	injury	rehabilitation	and	the	nutrition	considerations
at	each	time	point	of	the	rehabilitation	timeline
•	understand	nutrition	support	for	assisting	the	athlete	in	‘return	to	train	and	then
play’
•	have	an	awareness	of	emerging	nutrition	interventions	related	to	injury
prevention	and	rehabilitation.
TYPES	OF	INJURIES
The	types	of	injuries	that	occur	within	a	sport	are	generally	related	to	the
characteristics	of	that	particular	sport.	For	example,	contact	sports,	including
rugby	union,	rugby	league	and	Australian	football,	commonly	result	in	injuries
as	a	result	of	body	contact	and/or	sudden	directional	changes,	often	involving
musculoskeletal	and/or	connective	tissues.	Sports	such	as	boxing	commonly
result	in	injuries	as	a	result	of	a	direct	‘hit’	or	‘blow’	to	the	body	and	may	result
in	skin	lacerations,	fractures,	dislocations	or	concussions.	Athletes	participating
in	endurance	sports,	such	as	long-distance	running	and	triathlon,	are	often	faced
with	injuries	such	as	
tendinopathies
,	which	may	be	attributable	to	poor	load

management	and	over-use	of	a	specific	tissue.	We	will	focus	here	on	the	most
common	injuries	occurring	in	sport.	These	include	injuries	to	the	bone
(fractures),	soft	tissues	(including	cartilage,	ligaments,	tendons	and	muscle)	and
‘other’	injuries	(including	injuries	to	the	head	and	skin).	It	should	be	noted	that
injuries	rarely	occur	in	isolation	and	often	involve	multiple	components	of	the
body.
Tendinopathies
Diseases	of	the	tendons,	which	may	arise	from	a	range	of	internal	and	external	factors.
Bone	injuries
The	term	‘fracture’	encompasses	any	injury	in	which	a	bone	becomes	cracked	or
broken,	and	fractures	are	the	most	common	type	of	sports	injury	requiring
hospitalisation,	accounting	for	almost	50	per	cent	of	injuries	within	Australia
(AIHW	2012).	Fractures	can	occur	as	an	acute	injury—due	to	a	sudden	impact
such	as	contact	with	another	person,	obstacle	or	a	fall—or	as	a	result	of	repeated
stress	to	the	bone,	as	is	the	case	for	stress	fractures.	Acute	fractures	can	occur	in
almost	any	sport	where	there	is	some	form	of	direct	contact	with	another	person
or	object,	or	if	there	is	a	risk	of	a	fall,	such	as	in	football,	cycling,	running,
combat	sports,	snow	and	water	sports,	equestrian	activities	and	motor	sports.
While	stress	fractures	tend	to	occur	over	time,	they	are	common	in	sports	where
loading	can	change	quickly,	such	as	watercraft	sports	(rowing,	kayaking),
running,	gymnastics,	ballet,	basketball	and	volleyball.	While	it	is	important	to
focus	on	the	adequacy	of	key	nutrients	(such	as	calcium	and	vitamin	D)	that	may
assist	with	bone	healing,	preventing	nutrient	deficiencies	and	ensuring	adequate
energy	intake	(see	section	on	RED-S	and	energy	availability	below)	is	an
important	consideration	for	the	prevention	of	bone	injuries.
Soft-tissue	injuries
Soft-tissue	injuries	refer	to	injuries	to	the	musculoskeletal	and	connective
tissues,	whether	acutely,	such	as	a	sprain/	strain	or	tear,	or	chronically,	as	in	the
case	of	tendinopathies.	Soft-tissue	injuries	were	the	second	most	common	type
of	injury	requiring	hospitalisation,	according	to	the	AIHW	2011–12	report.

Sports	characterised	by	high-speed	movements	and	change	of	direction	have	a
high	incidence	of	soft-tissue	injuries	resulting	from	tears,	ruptures	and	strains.
These	types	of	injuries	are	typically	sustained	while	undertaking	high-speed
running—with	or	without	a	quick	change	of	direction—which	places	significant
strain	on	tissues	incapable	of	handling	the	load.	The	duration	of	recovery	can
range	from	days	to	a	year,	depending	on	the	severity	of	the	injury.	However,	in
sports	where	athletes	increase	load	rapidly	over	days	or	weeks,	more	chronic
conditions	like	tendinopathies	develop.	Specifically,	the	pain	and	dysfunction
resulting	from	a	tendinopathy	can	significantly	interfere	with	the	capacity	to
train	and	compete.	Tendinopathies	are	complicated	and	do	not	have	a	common
pathology
,	so	the	treatment	of	tendinopathies	will	often	be	specific	to	the	tendon
and	the	athlete’s	injury	history.	Consequences	of	soft-tissue	injuries	can	range
from	reduced	load	for	a	period	of	a	few	days	to	inability	to	complete	certain
types	of	exercise	for	the	rest	of	an	athlete’s	life.
Pathology
A	field	in	medicine	which	studies	the	causes	of	diseases.
Other	injuries
Head	injuries	are	frequently	reported	in	contact	sports.	Symptoms	can	be	as
minor	as	short	periods	(minutes)	of	memory	loss	to	long-term	impairment	in
brain	function.	
Recently,	this	long-term	impairment	in	brain	function	has	been
linked	to	multiple	acute	head	injuries	and	
subconcussive
	impacts.	Researchers
are	investigating	numerous	interventions,	including	the	influence	specific
nutrients	(important	for	brain	function)	can	have	on	helping	the	brain	regenerate
or	cope	with	these	types	of	injuries.	Other	injuries,	such	as	skin	lacerations	(deep
cuts)	are	also	common	in	sport	and	present	significant	concern	in	sports	where
dietary	adequacy	may	influence	wound	healing	or	in	events	where	treatment
options	may	be	limited,	such	as	multi-day	ultra-endurance	running	events.
Subconcussive
A	hit	to	the	head	that	does	not	meet	the	clinical	criteria	for	concussion,	but	is	hypothesised	to	have	long-
term	adverse	effects.

Special	interest	area:	Concussion
Concussion	is	a	type	of	traumatic	brain	injury	(TBI)	generally	caused	by	a
violent	blow	to	the	head	and	resulting	in	temporary	impairment	of	cognitive
function,	including	loss	of	consciousness,	vision,	memory	and	equilibrium
(balance).	Short-term	symptoms	include	diminished	reaction	times,	headache,
irritability	and	sleep	disturbances.	Repeated	concussive	injuries	have	been	linked
to	chronic	traumatic	encephalopathy	(CTE),	a	progressive	degenerative	disease
of	the	brain.	Often	referred	to	as	‘punch	drunk	syndrome’	in	retired	boxers,	it
can	eventually	result	in	dementia.	Under	normal	conditions,	the	human	brain
accounts	for	around	20	per	cent	of	the	oxygen	and	25	per	cent	of	the	glucose
utilised	by	the	body	(Belanger	
et	al.
	2011).	However,	after	a	concussion	there	is
a	cascade	of	functional	disturbances	within	the	brain,	including	alterations	in
energy,	glucose	and	lactate	metabolism,	increased	oxidative	stress	and
inflammation,	which	may	make	the	brain	more	susceptible	to	secondary	injury
and/or	lead	to	future	complications	(Giza	&	Hovda	2014).	Presently,	the	only
treatment	for	concussion	is	physical	and	cognitive	rest	until	acute	symptoms	are
resolved.
Although	nutrition	interventions	for	TBI	are	still	being	explored,	research	to
date	suggests	that	antioxidants	and	anti-inflammatory	agents	may	be	of	benefit.
Emerging	evidence	suggests	that	omega-3	fatty	acids	(n-3	FA),	particularly
docosahexaenoic	acid
	(DHA)	(see	
Chapter	4
)	may	play	a	role	in	both
prevention	and	treatment	of	TBI.	In	animal	models,	depletion	of	DHA	within	the
brain	impairs	recovery	from	TBI.	Additionally,	supplementing	with	n-3	FA	prior
to	sustaining	a	concussion	has	been	shown	to	protect	against	impact	sustained
from	a	concussion.	Athletes	at	risk	of	frequent	head	collisions	should	regularly
include	cold-water	fatty	fish	in	their	diets	at	least	three	times	per	week.	Other
nutrients	that	may	play	a	role	in	the	treatment	of	TBI	include	vitamins	C,	D	and
E,	through	the	reduction	of	oxidative	damage,	and	creatine,	whose	levels
decrease	within	the	brain	after	concussion.	
Although	further	research	is	needed
in	athletic	populations,	the	nutrients	suggested	as	beneficial	are	easily	obtained
from	dietary	sources.	Therefore,	athletes	competing	in	contact	sports	should	be
encouraged	to	consume	foods	high	in	the	above	nutrients	as	part	of	their	well-
planned	sports-specific	intake	(Ashbaugh	&	McGrew	2016).
Docosahexaenoic	acid
A	long-chain	n-3	fatty	acid	with	22—carbons	and	six	double	bonds,	found	in	fatty	fish	and	breast	milk.

PHASES	OF	NUTRITION	INTERVENTIONS	FOR
INJURIES
Typically,	acute	injury	begins	with	the	process	of	acute	inflammation,	followed
by	a	potential	period	of	immobilisation	and	a	varying	period	of	rehabilitation
before	returning	to	training	and	subsequently	competition.	Nutrition	plays	a
critical	role	in	each	phase	of	this	injury	rehabilitation	process,	as	outlined	below.
Although	it	is	tempting	to	suggest	nutrition	will	have	a	large	impact	on	injury
rehabilitation,	its	key	role	is	in	supporting	the	rehabilitation	program	designed	by
a	physician,	physical	therapist	or	rehabilitation	specialist.	Nutrition	will	boost
the	repair	process	but	the	interventions	will	only	be	as	successful	as	the	program
they	are	designed	to	support;	thus,	a	multidisciplinary	approach	to	support
rehabilitation	of	the	injured	athlete	is	essential.
Injury	prevention
While	nutrition	support	plays	an	important	role	in	injury	rehabilitation,	it	is	also
important	to	consider	that	adequate	nutrition	plays	a	critical	role	in	the
prevention	of	injuries.	It	has	long	been	known	that	significant	acute	changes	in
training	load	can	lead	to	a	range	of	injuries.	It	is	not	known	whether	the	primary
issue	is	the	increase	in	load	or	the	inability	of	athletes	to	change	their	dietary
intake	to	meet	the	requirements	of	the	increased	load.	An	International	Olympic
Committee	(IOC)	working	group	has	suggested	that	the	inability	to	match
energy	intake	to	account	for	variations	in	the	energy	cost	of	exercise	contributes
to	injury	risk	(Mountjoy	
et	al.
	2014).	It	is	therefore	essential	that	energy	intake
rises	and	falls	in	tight	response	to	training	load.	Additionally,	special	focus
should	be	given	to	ensure	adequate	nutrient	availability	necessary	for	the
significant	increase	in	remodelling	that	is	associated	with	increased	training
load.	Adequate	intake	of	protein,	carbohydrate,	and	calcium,	timed	closely	to
heavy	training,	has	been	shown	to	positively	influence	the	remodelling	process,
reducing	the	breakdown	of	tissues	such	as	bone	that	occurs	after	heavy	training
sessions.	Nutrition	recommendations	for	athletes	undertaking	increased	load
should	focus	on	adequate	energy	availability	combined	with	purposeful	nutrient
availability,	to	aid	in	the	prevention	of	load-related	injuries.
Special	interest	area:	RED-S	and	energy	availability
As	previously	discussed	in	
Chapter	18
,	appropriate	energy	availability	(EA)	is
particularly	important	for	athletes.	Reports	suggest	a	healthy	adult	has	a	typical

EA	of	
188	kJ/kg	of	fat-free	mass	(FFM).	However,	when	EA	drops	below	a
threshold	of	125	kJ/kg	FFM	(low	energy	availability),	insufficient	energy	is
available	after	exercise	is	accounted	for	to	maintain	key	functions	such	as	the
immune	system,	bone	remodelling,	protein	synthesis	and	hormonal	functioning.
Relative	energy	deficiency	in	sport	(RED-S),	as	a	consequence	of	long-term
low	energy	availability	(LEA),	has	a	range	of	implications	for	athlete	health	and
a	particularly	large	effect	on	bone	remodelling,	mostly	due	to	the	influence	LEA
has	on	oestrogen	and	its	flow-on	effect	of	reducing	IGF–1	(Mountjoy	
et	al.
2014).	IGF–1	is	a	hormone	that	is	essential	for	stimulating	remodelling	cells	in
the	muscle,	bone	and	connective	tissue.	It	has	also	been	shown	that	muscle
protein	synthesis	is	reduced	during	periods	of	LEA,	but	increasing	the	amount	of
protein	consumed	around	exercise	minimises	those	reductions	(Areta	
et	al.
2014).	This	highlights	that	LEA	influences	the	remodelling	of	proteins	in	both
bone	and	muscle	tissues,	potentially	increasing	the	risk	of	injuries	in	these
tissues.	More	work	is	needed	to	understand	whether	improving	nutrient
availability	around	exercise	while	in	a	state	of	LEA	can	potentially	reduce	the
negative	impact	of	LEA	on	bone,	muscle	and	connective	tissue	synthetic
processes.	This	complex	and	wide-reaching	area	of	nutrition	should	be	closely
monitored	and	not	discounted	in	the	prevention	of	injuries.	The	primary	focus	of
nutrition	interventions	as	training	loads	increase	should	be	ensuring	that
adequate	EA	is	maintained	to	reduce	the	risk	of	injury.
The	initial	phase	of	injury	(immobilisation)
After	any	injury	the	body’s	natural	response	is	to	increase	inflammation
(swelling),	signalling	the	requirement	for	repair	and	remodelling.	The
management	of	chronic	low-grade	inflammation	has	been	a	major	focus	of
lifestyle	disease	prevention	in	recent	times;	however,	acute	inflammation
associated	with	injury	is	an	important	process	that	helps	signal	and	stimulate
remodelling.	Evidence	to	support	the	use	of	anti-inflammatory	nutrients	to
suppress	inflammation,	and	hence	improve	injury	rehabilitation,	is	lacking
(Tipton	2015).	In	fact,	in	the	short	term	(the	period	of	the	first	few	hours	to	days
of	an	injury)	it	may	be	detrimental	to	reduce	a	response	that	is	necessary	for	the
healing	and	repair	of	damaged	tissue.
Most	injuries	require	some	form	of	disuse,	or	even	immobilisation,	with	acute
tears	and	ruptures	often	requiring	immobilisation	for	days	to	weeks.	This
immobilisation	leads	to	significant	reductions	in	energy	expenditure.	Often	the
first	instinct	of	athletes	is	to	reduce	energy	intake	proportionally.	However,

during	the	initial	phases	of	any	injury,	energy	requirements	may	actually	be
increased	due	to	energy	demands	for	the	proliferation	and	remodelling	of	injured
tissue	(Tipton	2015).	This	could	be	combined	with	the	increased	energy	cost	of
abnormal	movement	patterns,	especially	
with	lower	leg	injuries.	Therefore,
severe	energy	restrictions	leading	to	poor	nutrient	availability	(especially
protein)	should	be	avoided,	particularly	in	the	first	five	days	following	injury
and	immobilisation.	During	this	phase	of	injury,	athletes	are	recommended	to
not	actively	restrict	dietary	intake,	maintaining	energy	intake	between	146	and
188	kJ/kg/FFM.	They	should	focus	on	reducing	carbohydrate	intakes	to	the
lower	end	of	the	guidelines	(~3	g/kg	BM/day)	and	maintain	protein	intake	at	2–
2.5	g/kg	BM	per	day,	spread	evenly	over	all	meals	and	snacks.
If	immobilisation	is	expected	for	extended	periods	(>5	days)	athletes	are
advised	to	implement	nutrition	strategies	that	help	offset	muscle	wasting
associated	with	disuse.	Recent	studies	in	this	area	have	found	that	it	is	necessary
to	maintain	an	exercise	stimulus	when	providing	additional	nutrition	support	to
minimise	muscle	wasting	associated	with	disuse	or	immobilisation.
Recommendations	should	be	to	include	high-
leucine
	(~3	grams)	protein	sources
(>16	grams	of	essential	amino	acids)	at	all	meals	and	snacks	over	the	day.	This
is	especially	important	with	exercise	regimes	capable	of	maintaining	a
stimulatory	effect	(such	as	electrical	muscle	stimulation)	and	can	be	effective	at
reducing	muscle	wasting	(Dirks	
et	al.
	2017).	Although	traditionally	the	focus	has
been	on	minimising	loss	of	muscle	mass	and	function,	connective	tissue	volume
and	function	has	also	been	shown	to	deteriorate	rapidly	when	immobilised.
Recently,	novel	nutrition	interventions,	such	as	gelatin,	have	been	suggested	to
help	support	these	tissues	during	immobilisation;	however,	more	research	is
needed	before	definitive	interventions	can	be	recommended	(Baar	2017).
Leucine
An	essential	amino	acid,	which	is	required	for	muscle	protein	synthesis.
Other	nutritional	interventions	targeted	at	overcoming	the	anabolic	resistance
that	occurs	with	disuse—such	as	omega-3	fish	oils,	creatine,	b-Hydroxy-b-
methylbutyrate	(HMB,	an	active	metabolite	of	the	branch	chain	amino	acid
leucine),	and	other	chemicals	that	play	a	key	role	in	the	muscle	protein	synthetic
pathway	(such	as	phosphatidic	acid)—may	be	useful;	however,	the	evidence	for
their	use	requires	more	investigation	(Wall	
et	al.
	2015).	Nutrition
recommendations	for	injuries	that	require	periods	of	immobilisation	should	be

focused	on	ensuring	adequate	energy	availability	in	combination	with	optimal
total	protein	intake	(>2	g/kg	BM).	High-leucine	protein	sources	should	be
consumed	every	2–3	hours	throughout	the	day	to	maximally	support	optimal
protein	synthesis,	especially	in	the	early	stages	of	injury.	These	interventions
will	be	most	effective	when	combined	with	sufficient	exercise	of	the	injured
tissue	to	maintain	at	least	a	modest	amount	of	protein	synthesis.
Special	interest	area:	Nutrition	for	chronic	inflammation
While	acute	inflammation	is	a	necessary	and	natural	process	of	the	body’s
immune	system	in	response	to	initial	tissue	injury,	chronic	inflammation	can
lead	to	persistent	
pain	and	has	the	potential	to	contribute	to	long-term	damage
within	the	tissue.	Dietary	sources	of	anti-inflammatory	nutrients	are	highly
effective	at	maintaining	inflammatory	processes	within	manageable	ranges.	It
has	been	suggested	that	a	low	ratio	of	omega-3	(n-3)	fatty	acids	(found
predominantly	in	marine	sources)	to	omega-6	(n-6)	fatty	acids	(found	in
processed	foods	and	some	seeds,	nuts	and	oils)	leads	to	an	imbalance	in	the
control	of	inflammation	within	the	body.	Recommendations	to	manage	this
imbalance	are	to	limit	processed	foods	and	seeds/nuts/oils	high	in	n-6	while
increasing	intakes	of	dietary	sources	of	n-3,	such	as	oily	fish	(Simopoulos	2002).
There	is	also	an	increasing	focus	on	the	bioactive	components	of	plant-based
foods	that	may	assist	in	reducing	inflammation,	such	as	
polyphenols
.
Polyphenols	of	interest	include	epigallocatechin	(EGCG)	(found	in	green	tea),
curcumin	(found	in	turmeric)	and	rutin	(found	in	a	wide	variety	of	plants,
including	apples	and	citrus	fruits).	While	research	is	continuing	to	develop	and
evolve	around	the	bioactive	components	of	food,	athletes	may	be	able	to	help
manage	unwanted	inflammation	by	ensuring	that	they	consume	a	diet	rich	in
plant-based	foods.
Polyphenols
A	group	of	over	500	compounds	that	are	found	in	plants.	They	are	important	as	they	provide	protection
against	disease.
The	second	phase	of	injury	(return	to	train)
After	the	initial	phase	of	disuse	is	completed	and	athletes	are	able	to	use	and
train	the	injured	muscles	or	limb,	nutrition	focus	should	shift.	Nutrition	in	this
phase	of	injury	rehabilitation	will	focus	on	maximally	supporting	the	training

phase	of	injury	rehabilitation	will	focus	on	maximally	supporting	the	training
stimulus	to	rebuild	muscle	and	connective	tissue	to	pre-injury	levels.	If	nutrition
and	training	strategies	have	been	strategically	implemented,	muscle	wasting	as	a
result	of	disuse	should	have	been	minimised	to	no	more	than	a	few	hundred
grams.	As	per	traditional	training	nutrition	strategies,	nutrition	should	firstly	be
targeted	at	meeting	energy	availability.	During	the	initial	weeks	of	this	phase	of
rehabilitation,	energy	intake	will	still	be	lower	than	normal	as	total	training	load
is	still	low.	However,	depending	on	the	injury,	this	phase	of	rehabilitation	may
still	include	full-load	resistance	training	of	uninjured	tissue	and	aerobic	training
using	uninjured	muscles	and	limbs	(bike	for	upper	body	injury,	grinder	or
similar	for	low	body	injuries).	Therefore,	careful	thought	should	be	given	to
energy	intake	as	over-or	underestimating	energy	expenditure	during	this	period
of	rehabilitation	can	lead	to	suboptimal	changes	in	body	composition	(fat	mass
increase,	lean	mass	loss).
Rehabilitation	periods	are	often	utilised	as	opportunities	to	address	physique
insufficiencies.	Although	it	may	seem	intuitive	to	manipulate	body	composition
during	extended	rehabilitation	periods,	athletes	and	practitioners	should	ensure
any	gains	in	lean	mass	are	achieved	concurrently	with	appropriate	increases	in
training	loads.
Macronutrient	goals	should	be	re-aligned	with	typical	training
recommendations,	with	protein	intakes	between	1.4	and	2	g/kg	BM	per	day;
carbohydrate	intakes	matched	to	the	training	undertaken	on	a	day-to-day	basis;
and	fat	intake	from	quality	sources	focused	on	meeting	energy	requirements.
Dietary	supplements	such	as	creatine,	caffeine,	beta-alanine	and	sports	foods,	if
used,	should	be	focused	on	supporting	training	capacity	and	enabling	athletes	to
improve	training	performance,	hence	retraining	injured	muscles	quickly	back	to
pre-injury	strength	and	metabolic	capacity.
The	third	phase	of	injury	(train	to	play)
Once	an	injured	muscle,	joint	or	limb	has	returned	to	pre-injury	function	and
size,	the	nutrition	focus	should	shift	from	synthesis	and	regeneration	to
amplifying	the	adaptive	signal	of	exercise.	Over	the	last	ten	years,	significant
research	has	demonstrated	that	the	provision	or	restriction	of	specific	nutrients
can	help	amplify	the	biochemical	signalling	of	exercise.	For	those	athletes
looking	to	fast-track	aerobic	adaptations,	manipulating	carbohydrate	availability
around	training	has	been	shown	to	be	a	potent	stimulator	of	aerobic	adaptation.
Strength,	power	and	team	sport	athletes	may	benefit	from	dietary	interventions

focused	on	enhancing	high-intensity	training	volumes.	Small,	purposeful
carbohydrate	intakes	prior	to	exercise,	combined	with	supplements	that	enhance
training	capacity	(such	as	creatine,	beta-alanine,	nitrates	and	caffeine)	can
enhance	work	completed	during	training	if	used	strategically,	hence	fast-tracking
the	physiological	adaptations	achieved	from	training	(see	
Chapters	12
	and	
15
).
The	fourth	phase	of	injury	(return	to	competition)
Athletes	who	have	completed	a	rehabilitation	program	through	the	above	stages
and	are	deemed	ready	to	compete	should	no	longer	require	additional	or	specific
nutrition	requirements.	Nutrition	recommendations	should	follow	those	of
healthy	non-injured	athletes.	Injured	limbs	or	muscles	should	be	returned	to
similar,	if	not	enhanced,	muscle	size	and	function	prior	to	return	to	competition
and	should	not	require	ongoing	nutritional	support.
However,	injuries,	especially	to	joints,	can	often	place	significant	strain	on
both	the	injured	and	other	non-injured	joints,	leading	to	degenerative	conditions
such	as	
osteoarthritis
.	Although	numerous	nutrition	interventions	have	been
suggested	to	either	treat	or	alleviate	the	symptoms	of	these	conditions
(glucosamine,	fish	oils,	curcumin,	hydrolysed	collagen)	the	evidence	for	their
use	is	still	equivocal	and	requires	more	research.	Athletes	should	maintain	an
appropriate	body	weight	throughout	the	rest	of	their	career	and	then	throughout
their	adult	life,	to	avoid	placing	unnecessary	load	on	the	injured	joint	and
increasing	the	risk	of	developing	a	degenerative	joint	condition.
Osteoarthritis
A	degenerative	condition	of	the	joints	that	occurs	when	the	cartilage	in	the	joint	degenerates,	which	leads
to	loss	of	function.
Table	24.1.	Overview	of	rehabilitation	and	nutrition	planning	for	the
injured	athlete
Time	(week)
Stage/aims
Disuse	1	day
to	12	weeks
Return	to
train	3	days
to	10	weeks
Train	to
compete	2	to
10	weeks
Competition
Physical
Minimise
Retrain
Enhance
Train	for

Physical
Minimise
muscle
atrophy
Retrain
muscle
Optimise
physique
Enhance
adaptation	to
training
Train	for
competition
intensity
Fitness
Minimise
loss	of
aerobic
fitness
Re-develop
aerobic
fitness
Retrain
aerobic/
anaerobic
capacity
Nutrition
Energy
availability:
146–188
kJ/kg	FFM
Protein:	>2
g/kg	BM/
day
HBV	protein
sources	high
in	leucine
(>3	g)	(every
2–3	hrs)
Supplements:
Fish	oils:	4
g/day,	HMB:
3	g/day.
Energy
availability:
188	kJ/kg
FFM	Protein:
1.4–2	g/kg
BM/day
HBV	protein
sources	high
in	leucine
(>3	g)	(every
2–3	hrs)
CHO:	to
meet	training
requirement
3–8	g/kg	BM
Supplements:
creatine
(load	20	g/
day	x	5	days
then	5	g/day
for	return	to
train)
Energy
availability:
146–188
kJ/kg	FFM
Protein:	1.8–
2.4	g/kg
BM/day
CHO:	vary
CHO
availability
Supplements:
to	increase
work
completed/
physiological
adaptation
As	per
traditional
sports
nutrition
guidelines
Notes:	FFM:	fat-free	mass,	BM:	body	mass,	HBV:	high	biological	value,	HMB:	b-Hydroxy-b-
methylbutyrate,	CHO:	carbohydrate.
THE	ROLE	OF	SUPPLEMENTATION	IN
REHABILITATION

While	whole	foods	provide	an	opportunity	for	the	athlete	to	meet	multiple	goals
at	once	and	should	always	be	the	first	choice,	supplements	may	further	assist	by
filling	in	any	gaps	within	the	diet	and/or	providing	concentrated	or	convenient
sources	of	specific	nutrients	that	may	be	of	benefit.	A	supplement	such	as	
whey
protein	isolate
	(WPI)	may	provide	a	convenient	low-energy	(kJ)	source	of
protein	during	a	low-energy	requirement	period	like	disuse.	Alternatively,	other
supplements,	such	as	high-strength	fish	oils,	may	provide	a	convenient,	and
relatively	low-cost,	option	to	obtain	the	large	amounts	of	omega-3	fatty	acids
needed	to	attenuate	anabolic	resistance	or	inflammation.	Finally,	conditionally
essential	amino	acids	such	as	
arginine
	have	been	shown	to	
aid	in	wound	healing
(Stechmiller	
et	al.
	2005)	while	more	recently	there	is	promising	evidence	that
amino	acids	abundant	in	collagen-containing	tissues	(including	bone,	tendons
and	ligaments)	may	play	a	role	in	the	regeneration	and	repair	of	these	tissues
(Baar	2017).	However,	the	source	and	quality	of	any	supplement	should	be
carefully	considered	with	athletes;	a	recent	study	in	New	Zealand	found	69	per
cent	of	32	omega-3	fish	oils	tested	contained	less	than	two-thirds	of	the	amount
of	omega-3	stated	on	the	label	(Albert	
et	al.
	2015).	Additionally,	the	risk	of
contamination	with	the	use	of	supplements	should	always	be	considered	by
athletes	governed	by	the	WADA	code	(refer	to	
Chapter	12
).	Therefore,
supplementation	should	be	only	used	as	a	supportive	dietary	option	and,	in	most
instances,	the	purposeful	use	of	whole	foods	and	fluids	can	meet	the	nutrition
requirements	of	injury	rehabilitation.
Whey	protein	isolate
A	by-product	of	cheese	production,	which	contains	a	high	percentage	of	pure	protein	and	is	virtually
lactose-free,	carbohydrate-free,	fat-free	and	cholesterol-free.
Arginine
A	conditionally	essential	amino	acid	that	has	been	shown	to	have	benefits	in	wound	healing.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES
After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	understand	that	strategic	and	targeted
nutrition	has	the	potential	to	support	the	rehabilitation	process	of	the	injured
athlete.	This	occurs	mainly	by	minimising	wasting	of	essential	tissue	during

athlete.	This	occurs	mainly	by	minimising	wasting	of	essential	tissue	during
disuse	and	fast-tracking	the	retraining	of	injured	tissue	back	to	pre-injury	levels.
Key	messages
•	Injuries	range	from	moderate	to	severe	and	are	related	to	the	characteristics	of
the	sport,	with	both	immediate	and	potentially	long-term	consequences	for
athletes.
•	It	is	important	to	consider	the	different	phases	of	the	injury/rehabilitation
process,	from	prevention	through	to	‘return	to	play’,	when	considering
nutrition	interventions.
•	It	is	important	to	achieve	a	balance	between	consuming	a	sufficient	amount	of
energy	to	support	the	body	in	the	healing	and	regeneration	process,	and
preventing	unwanted	increases	in	fat	mass.
•	The	purposeful	timing	of	macro-and	micronutrients	can	significantly	influence
the	adaptations	achieved	during	the	rehabilitation	process.
•	Supplements	may	be	warranted	in	some	circumstances;	however,	meeting
nutrient	goals	should	be	achieved	through	the	intake	of	whole	foods	where
possible.
REFERENCES
Albert,	B.B.,	Derraik,	J.G.,	Cameron-Smith,	D.	et	al.,	2015,	‘Fish	oil
supplements	in	New	Zealand	are	highly	oxidised	and	do	not	meet	label
content	of	n-3	PUFA’,	
Scientific	Reports,
	vol.	5,	pp.	7928.
Areta,	J.L.,	Burke,	L.M.,	Camera,	D.M.	et	al.,	2014,	‘Reduced	resting	skeletal
muscle	protein	synthesis	is	rescued	by	resistance	exercise	and	protein
ingestion	following	short-term	
energy	deficit’,	
American	Journal	of
Physiology,	Endocrinology	&	Metabolism
,	vol.	306,	no.	8,	pp.	E989–97.
Ashbaugh,	A.	&	McGrew,	C.,	2016,	‘The	role	of	nutritional	supplements	in
sports	concussion	treatment’,	
Current	Sports	Medicine	Reports,
	vol.	15,	no.	1,
pp.	16–9.
Australian	Institute	of	Health	and	Welfare	(AIHW),	2012,	
Australian	Sports
Injury	Hospitalisations
,	AIHW,	<
www.aihw.gov.au/reports/australias-
health/australias-health-2012/contents/table-of-contents
>.
——	2014,	
Australian	Sports	Injury	Hospitalisations
,	AIHW,
<
www.aihw.gov.au/reports/australias-health/australias-health-
2014/contents/table-of-contents
>.

Baar,	K.,	2017,	‘Minimizing	injury	and	maximizing	return	to	play:	Lessons	from
engineered	ligaments’,	
Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	47,	suppl.	1,	pp.	5–11.
Belanger,	M.,	Allaman,	I.	&	Magistretti,	P.J.,	2011,	‘Brain	energy	metabolism:
Focus	on	astrocyte-neuron	metabolic	cooperation’,	
Cell	Metabolism,
	vol.	14,
no.	6,	pp.	724–38.
Dirks,	M.L.,	Wall,	B.T.	&	Van	Loon,	L.J.C.,	2018,	‘Interventional	strategies	to
combat	muscle	disuse	atrophy	in	humans:	Focus	on	neuromuscular	electrical
stimulation	and	dietary	protein’,	
Journal	of	Applied	Physiology,
	vol.	125,	no.
3,	pp.	850–61.
Giza,	C.C.	&	Hovda,	D.A.,	2014,	‘The	new	neurometabolic	cascade	of
concussion’,	
Neurosurgery,
	vol.	75,	suppl.	4,	pp.	S24–33.
Medibank,	2003,	
Sports	injuries	in	Australia	now	costing	$1.5	billion	a	year	in
new	report	finding
	[Online],	<
www.medibank.com.au
>,	accessed	9	August
2018.
Mountjoy,	M.,	Sundgot-Borgen,	J.,	Burke,	L.	et	al.,	2014,	‘The	IOC	consensus
statement:	Beyond	the	female	athlete	triad—Relative	energy	deficiency	in
sport	(RED-S)’,	
British	Journal	of	Sports	Medicine,
	vol.	48,	no.	7,	pp.	491–7.
Simopoulos,	A.P.,	2002,	‘The	importance	of	the	ratio	of	omega-6/omega-3
essential	fatty	acids’,	
Biomedicine	&	Pharmacotherapy,
	vol.	56,	no.	8,	pp.
365–79.
Stechmiller,	J.K.,	Childress,	B.	&	Cowan,	L.,	2005,	‘Arginine	supplementation
and	wound	healing’,	
Nutrition	in	Clinical	Practice,
	vol.	20,	no.	1,	pp.	52–61.
Tipton,	K.D.,	2015,	‘Nutritional	support	for	exercise-induced	injuries’,	
Sports
Medicine,
	vol.	45,	suppl.	1,	pp.	S93–104.
Wall,	B.,	Morton,	J.P.	&	Van	Loon,	L.J.,	2015,	‘Strategies	to	maintain	skeletal
muscle	mass	in	the	injured	athlete:	Nutritional	considerations	and	exercise
mimetics’,	
European	Journal	of	Sport	Science,
	vol.	15,	no.	1,	pp.	53–62.

Cultural	perspectives
Frankie	Pui	Lam	Siu	and	Evangeline	Mantzioris
Athletes	often	travel	abroad	for	training	and	competition.	Their	usual	dietary
habits	and	eating	plans	may	be	affected	when	they	face	new	environments	with
different	cultures.	Additionally,	with	globalisation	and	the	ease	of	international
travel,	many	countries	now	have	teams	that	are	composed	of	athletes	with
different	ethnic,	cultural	and	religious	backgrounds,	as	well	as	different
philosophical	approaches	to	choosing	food.	Although	the	principles	of	healthy
dietary	intake	and	the	nutrition	goals	of	sports	performance	are	similar	across
different	cultures,	there	is	an	infinite	variety	of	food	combinations	that	athletes
may	choose	to	meet	their	nutritional	goals.	An	understanding	of	different
cultural	perspectives	is	important	for	athletes	and	the	sports	nutrition
professionals	who	work	with	them	to	appreciate	how	foods	from	different
countries	of	the	world	may	contribute	to	their	dietary	plan	for	exercise	and
performance.
In	this	chapter,	you	will	be	presented	with	an	overview	of	the	dietary	customs
of	different	ethnic,	cultural	and	religious	groups,	as	well	as	the	typical	eating
patterns	and	food	availability	in	different	countries	across	Asia,	the	Middle	East,
Australia	and	New	Zealand.

Australia	and	New	Zealand.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:	•	describe	the	different
religious	and	philosophical	approaches	to	food	selection	•	understand	the
different	food	cultures	and	customs	in	different	countries	•	identify	foods
available	to	support	sports	performance	in	different	countries.
RELIGIOUS,	CULTURAL	AND	PHILOSOPHICAL
DETERMINANTS	OF	EATING
Many	religions	prescribe	a	set	of	guidelines	for	eating;	for	some	religions	they
are	prescriptive,	while	for	others	they	are	recommendations.	Just	how	closely
individuals	choose	to	adhere	to	the	guidelines	will	be	determined	by	their
devotion	to	their	religion,	as	well	as	cultural	and	family	influences.	As	culture
strongly	influences	the	foods	we	consume,	it	is	important	to	be	aware	of	an
athlete’s	cultural	background	and	personal	philosophy	before	translating	sport-
specific	nutritional	guidelines	into	food-based	dietary	advice	for	exercise
performance.	Here,	we	look	in	more	detail	at	the	dietary	practices	of	religions
with	prescribed	or	recommended	dietary	restrictions	or	fasting.
Vegetarianism	features	in	a	number	of	religions,	and	it	is	important	to
understand	that	there	are	a	number	of	types	of	vegetarianism,	and	that	athletes
may	choose	a	vegetarian	diet	based	on	any	number	of	religious	or	philosophical
beliefs.
•	Vegans	avoid	the	consumption	of	any	food	that	is	derived	from	animals,
including	dairy,	eggs	and	animal	fats	that	may	be	used	in	the	food	industry.
•	Lacto-ovo	vegetarians	avoid	the	consumption	of	any	foods	that	are	derived
from	the	flesh	of	the	animal	that	requires	the	animal	to	be	slaughtered.	They
will	consume	eggs	and	dairy	products.	A	lacto-vegetarian	will	consume	dairy
products	but	avoid	meat	and	eggs.	An	ovo-vegetarian	will	consume	eggs	but
avoid	dairy	and	meat.
•	Pescetarians	incorporate	fish	into	a	vegetarian	diet.
•	Flexitarians	will	usually	consume	eggs	and	dairy	products,	and	sometimes	fish,
but	will	tend	to	consume	meat	less	than	once	per	week.
Hinduism

Hinduism
Diet	in	Hinduism	varies	with	its	diverse	traditions.	Hinduism	does	not	explicitly
prohibit	the	consumption	of	meat;	rather,	it	strongly	advocates	
ahimsa
—non-
violence	against	all	life	forms,	including	animals.	As	such,	many	Hindus	prefer	a
vegetarian	or	lacto-vegetarian	diet	which	incorporates	food	production	that	is
aligned	with	a	respectful	consideration	of	nature	that	is	compassionate	and
respectful	of	all	life	forms.	Although	the	majority	of	Hindus	are	vegetarian,	a
significant	number	still	consume	meat.	However,	given	the	respect	for	the	cow
as	part	of	the	Hindu	belief	system,	they	do	not	consume	beef.	Among	meat-
eating	Hindus	the	preference	is	to	
consume	chicken,	fish,	lamb	and	goat.	There
may	also	be	periods	of	the	year	in	which	Hindus	may	fast,	such	as	the	Festival	of
Navratri,	when	the	devout	may	abstain	from	many	types	of	food	and	only	eat
one	meal	per	day.
Islam
Islamic	dietary	law	is	in	the	interest	of	health	and	cleanliness	as	well	as	in
obedience	to	God.	It	distinguishes	between	food	that	is	good	(halal)	and	those
foods	that	are	prohibited	by	God	(haram).	The	dietary	law	allows	prohibited
foods	to	be	consumed	under	the	‘law	of	necessity’	under	certain	circumstances,
such	as	if	no	viable	alternative	exists.	With	this	in	mind	the	following	foods	are
haram.
•	‘Dead’	meat	(the	carcass	of	an	already-dead	animal	that	was	not	slaughtered	by
appropriate	means).
•	The	meat	of	an	animal	that	has	been	sacrificed	to	idols.
•	The	meat	of	an	animal	that	died	from	electrocution,	strangulation	or	blunt
force.
•	Meat	from	which	wild	animals	have	already	eaten.
•	Blood.
•	The	flesh	of	swine	(pork,	bacon	and	ham).
•	Intoxicating	drinks.	For	devout	Muslims,	this	even	includes	sauces	or	food-
preparation	liquids	that	might	include	alcohol,	such	as	soy	sauce.
There	are	also	fasting	periods	within	the	Islamic	calendar.	Ramadan,	the	ninth
month	in	the	Islamic	calendar,	which	varies	from	year	to	year,	is	considered	the
most	sacred	month.	Under	Islamic	law,	followers	do	not	eat	or	drink	(and	in
some	cases	will	not	swallow	their	own	saliva)	from	dawn	to	dusk.	All	adult
Muslims	are	required	to	fast	except	for	pregnant,	lactating	and	menstruating
women,	women	who	have	given	birth	in	the	last	40	days,	people	with	short-term

women,	women	who	have	given	birth	in	the	last	40	days,	people	with	short-term
illnesses,	those	who	are	seriously	ill	and	travellers.	However,	it	is	expected	that
they	will	fast	to	make	up	the	days	they	have	lost	before	the	next	Ramadan
period.
Buddhism
The	Buddhist	laws	concerning	diet	are	based,	like	those	of	Hinduism,	on	
ahimsa
—avoidance	of	harm	to	any	living	thing—and	many	Buddhists	are	vegetarians.
Dietary	laws	apply	more	strictly	to	Buddhist	monks	and	nuns	and	even	those
who	live	in	monasteries	will	adapt	their	diet	based	on	food	availability	and	their
personal	need.	Additionally,	East	Asian	Buddhist	cuisine	differs	from
vegetarianism	in	its	avoidance	of	killing	plant	life.	Therefore	root	vegetables
(potato,	carrots,	onion	and	garlic),	which	require	the	plant	to	be	pulled	up,	are
forbidden.	The	ultimate	goal	of	Buddhist	practice	is	to	eliminate	suffering	by
limiting	attachment	to	worldly	goods,	which	leads	
to	the	cuisine	becoming	quite
simple	in	taste	as	well.	Meals	are	relatively	simple	and	are	based	on	ingredients
such	as	tofu,	legumes,	rice	and	vegetables	(excluding	root	vegetables).	Buddha
bowls	are	becoming	increasingly	popular,	containing	grains,	greens,	other
vegetables,	legumes	and	topped	with	nuts	and	seeds	and	a	dressing.
Judaism
Kashrut	is	the	body	of	Jewish	law	that	considers	the	foods	that	can	and	cannot	be
eaten.	Foods	that	meet	the	standards	set	in	the	kashrut	and	may	be	eaten	are
referred	to	as	kosher.	Briefly	the	general	rules	of	kashrut	are	as	follows.
•	Certain	animals	(hare,	hyrax,	camel,	pig	and	shellfish)	may	not	be	eaten	at	all
—this	includes	the	flesh	(meat),	organs,	eggs	and	milk	of	these	forbidden
animals.
•	Of	the	animals	that	may	be	eaten,	the	birds	and	mammals	must	be	killed	in
accordance	with	Jewish	law.	There	are	strict	guidelines	on	the	way	the	animal
should	be	killed	and	it	must	be	performed	by	a	pious	(devoutly	religious)	Jew.
•	All	blood	must	be	drained	from	meat	and	poultry	or	broiled	out	of	it	before	it	is
eaten.
•	Certain	parts	even	of	permitted	animals	may	not	be	eaten	(sciatic	nerves	and
surrounding	vessels;	chelev	(suet),	which	is	the	fat	surrounding	vital	organs
and	liver).
•	Fruits	and	vegetables	are	permitted	but	must	be	inspected	for	insects	(which
cannot	be	eaten).

cannot	be	eaten).
•	Meat	(the	flesh	of	birds	and	mammals)	must	not	be	eaten	with	dairy.	Eggs,
fruits,	vegetables	and	grains	can	be	eaten	with	either	meat	or	dairy.	According
to	some	views,	fish	may	not	be	eaten	with	meat.
•	Utensils,	pots	and	pans	and	other	cooking	surfaces	that	have	come	into	contact
with	meat	may	not	be	used	with	dairy,	and	vice	versa.	Utensils	that	have	come
into	contact	with	non-kosher	food	may	not	be	used	with	kosher	food.	This
applies	only	where	the	contact	occurred	while	the	food	was	hot.
•	Grape	products,	including	wine,	made	by	non-Jews	may	not	be	consumed.
Mormonism
The	dietary	restrictions	in	Mormonism	are	based	on	the	belief	that	people	should
care	for	their	bodies.	The	Mormon	Church	prescribes	exercise,	sleep,	cleanliness
and	dental	hygiene	as	well	as	dietary	restrictions.	The	dietary	restrictions	include
abstinence	from	coffee,	tea,	hot	drinks,	energy	and	carbonated	drinks	that
contain	caffeine,	alcohol	and	tobacco.	Mormons	are	allowed	to	eat	animal
products,	but	they	are	advised	to	choose	them	in	smaller	quantities.	Fasting	is
expected	for	one	day	per	month	and	the	money	that	would	have	been	spent	on
food	is	donated	to	the	poor.
Seventh	Day	Adventism
The	dietary	guidelines	prescribed	for	Seventh	Day	Adventists	are	based	on	the
belief	that	God	calls	them	to	respect	and	care	for	their	bodies.	A	vegetarian	diet
is	promoted	along	with	exercise	and	avoidance	of	harmful	substances	such	as
tobacco	and	alcohol.	No	meat	or	fish	is	allowed;	however,	eggs	and	dairy	in
moderation	are	acceptable.
Rastafarianism	(or	Rastafari)
Rastafarianism,	developed	in	Jamaica	in	the	1930s,	advocates	eating	food	that	is
natural.	Often	this	relates	to	food	being	produced	organically	and	locally.	Based
on	Judaism,	they	avoid	eating	pork	or	crustaceans,	while	many	Rastas	remain
vegetarian	and	avoid	the	addition	of	additives,	sugar	and	salt	to	their	food.	They
also	avoid	alcohol.	Rastas	typically	avoid	eating	food	which	has	been	produced
by	non-Rastas	or	other	unknown	sources.

Christian—Catholic,	Eastern	Orthodox
There	are	many	different	Christian	denominations,	but	only	two	have	dietary
guidelines	and	fasting	restrictions;	these	are	the	Eastern	Orthodox	Church	and
the	Roman	Catholic	Church.
Eastern	Orthodox	Church
While	commonly	referred	to	as	Greek	Orthodox	(due	to	the	use	of	the	Greek
language	in	all	of	its	theological	writings	and	its	heritage	with	the	Byzantine
Empire),	Eastern	Orthodox	Christians	are	also	of	Russian,	Eastern	European,
Caucasus,	African	and	Middle	Eastern	background.
The	set	fasting	periods	in	the	Eastern	Orthodox	Church	are	Lent	(eight	weeks
before	Easter),	Dormition	(1–15	August),	Apostles	(varying	number	of	days
before	29	July)	and	Nativity	Fast	(six	weeks	before	the	Feast	of	the	Nativity),	the
Eve	of	Theophany,	the	Beheading	of	St	John	the	Baptist	and	the	Elevation	of	the
Holy	Cross.	Eastern	Orthodox	Christians	also	fast	every	Wednesday	and	Friday,
except	for	the	week	after	Easter	Sunday	and	between	Christmas	and	the	Eve	of
Theophany.	As	a	result,	devout	observers	can	be	fasting	for	up	to	180	days	per
year.	The	guidelines	state	that	during	fasting	no	alcohol,	olive	oil,	animal
products	(including	eggs	and	dairy	products)	or	fish	with	backbones	can	be
consumed,	although	shellfish	and	fish	roe	are	permitted.	Children,	pregnant	and
lactating	women,	the	elderly	and	those	that	are	sick	(physically	or	mentally)	are
not	expected	to	fast.
Roman	Catholic	Church
The	Roman	Catholic	Church	did	have	a	dietary	restriction	which	prohibited	the
consumption	of	meat	on	Fridays,	but	this	was	abolished	in	1966	in	the	Apostolic
Constitution	of	Pope	Paul	VI.	Due	to	its	relative	recency,	some	devout	Roman
Catholics	will	still	not	eat	meat	on	Fridays	and	the	meat	is	replaced	with	fish—
hence	the	‘Friday	Fish	Fry’.	That	is	why	in	some	catering	facilities	(hospitals,
boarding	schools	and	pubs)	in	Western	countries	fish	is	routinely	available	on
the	menu	on	Fridays.	However,	Roman	Catholics	are	still	required	to	abstain
from	meat	(except	fish)	on	Ash	Wednesday	and	Good	Friday.
Religion	and	ethical	belief	systems	can	play	a	large	role	in	the	type	of	foods
that	athletes	will	eat.	However,	perhaps	a	bigger	influence	is	a	person’s	cultural
identity	as	identified	by	their	country	of	birth,	or	that	of	their	parents	or
grandparents.	The	next	section	provides	an	overview	of	foods	consumed	by
cultures	in	different	geographic	locations	around	the	world.	It	is	important	to
remember	that	within	these	regions,	there	may	be	a	number	of	different	religious
and	cultural	influences.

and	cultural	influences.
THE	DIETARY	CULTURE	IN	DIFFERENT	PARTS
OF	THE	WORLD
Asia
Asia	is	the	largest	and	most	populous	continent	in	the	world.	Asian	cuisines	vary
greatly,	from	the	delicacies	of	Japan	to	the	strong	flavours	of	Vietnam	and
Thailand	and	the	hot	and	spicy	flavours	of	India.	Rice	and	noodles	are	staple
foods	consumed	in	almost	every	meal	and	feature	heavily	in	all	Asian	cuisine.
Portion	sizes	are	relatively	small	compared	with	portion	sizes	in	Western
countries.
Eastern	Asian	Cuisine
East	Asian	cuisine	includes	Chinese,	Japanese,	Korean,	Taiwanese	and
Mongolian	food.
China
China	is	the	world’s	most	populous	country	and	the	world’s	second	largest	by
land	area,	with	different	climates,	ethnicities	and	religions.	As	a	result	there	are
many	distinctive	styles	of	cuisine	which	form	an	important	part	of	Chinese
culture.
In	the	northern	part	of	China	(Beijing,	Hebei),	wheat	is	the	staple	crop	and
people	eat	noodles,	dumplings,	wheat	buns	and	pancakes.	Due	to	the	large
proportion	of	Muslims	in	the	northwest	of	China,	mutton	is	popular.	Garlic,
scallions,	leeks	and	chillies	are	also	used	heavily	in	seasoning	meals.	With	cold
weather	in	the	north,	fresh	vegetables	are	less	available	so	preserving	vegetables
is	common.
In	the	eastern	part	of	China	(Shanghai,	Jiangsu),	the	cuisine	is	often	lighter,
mellower	and	slightly	sweet	in	taste	compared	to	other	cuisines.	This	is
attributed	to	the	use	of	sugar,	wines,	vinegars	and	soy	sauces	while	retaining	the
original	flavours	of	the	raw	ingredients.
In	southern	China	(Guangzhou	(Canton)	and	Hong	Kong),	much	of	the	region
is	subtropical	and	is	green	year-round,	allowing	year-long	production	of	foods
such	as	rice,	fruits	and	vegetables.	Reflecting	the	great	variety	in	produce	grown
in	this	subtropical	region,	any	one	dish	in	Cantonese	cuisine	will	contain	many

fresh	ingredients,	usually	cooked	by	either	steaming,	broiling	or	stir-frying.
From	western	China	(Sichuan,	Yunnan),	we	have	one	of	the	most	popular
cuisines,	Sichuan	(Szechuan)	style.	The	typical	Sichuan	dishes	are	spicy,	hot	and
oily.	Sichuan	peppercorn,	the	most	common	ingredient	in	Sichuan	cuisine,	has	a
very	strong	numbing	effect	on	the	mouth	and	face	when	eaten.	Mushroom,
bamboo	shoots	and	rice	are	also	prominent	ingredients	in	dishes,	and	goat’s
milk,	lamb	and	mutton	are	staple	foods	in	this	area.
Chinese	people	usually	like	to	eat	their	meals	together	and	share	their	dishes
whether	eating	in	restaurants	or	at	home.	Food	is	always	cooked	in	bite-size
pieces,	facilitating	easy	serving	with	chopsticks.
Dessert	is	not	a	common	feature	in	Chinese	dining,	although	westernisation	of
these	countries	has	led	to	increased	availability	of	sweets	in	the	country.
Japan
Japanese	cuisine	is	based	on	the	staple	foods:	rice,	miso	soup	and	seasonal
produce,	with	rice	being	consumed	2–3	times	a	day.	The	common	phrase	
ichijū-
sansai
,	which	means	‘one	soup,	three	dishes	(one	main	dish	and	two	side
dishes)’	refers	to	the	make-up	of	a	typical	meal.	This	is	based	on	rice	with	miso
soup	and	one	main	dish,	such	as	fish,	meat,	poultry	or	egg,	which	is	mainly	a
source	of	protein.	The	two	side	dishes	are	vegetables,	either	fresh	or	pickled,	and
commonly	include	seaweed	and	mushroom.	In	general,	Japanese	cuisine	is	light,
less	spicy	and	healthy.	The	exception	to	this	is	tempura	and	other	deep-fried
foods.
Before	Japanese	people	start	to	eat,	they	say	
Itadakimasu
	which	literally
means	‘I	humbly	receive’,	reflecting	Japan’s	Buddhist	origins	of	thanking	the
plants	and	animals	that	have	been	sacrificed,	as	well	as	those	involved	along	the
steps	required	to	produce	the	meal.	Traditionally	this	can	be	witnessed	as	people
(either	alone	or	as	a	group)	put	their	palms	together	and	slightly	bow	in	front	of
their	meal.	At	the	end	of	a	meal	they	say	
Gochisosama	deshita
	with	a	bow	again,
which	means	‘Thank	you	for	the	food’.
Japanese	people	use	chopsticks	for	eating.	They	use	soy	sauce	sparingly,
particularly	with	sushi.
Korea
Korean	cuisine	is	quite	similar	to	Chinese	and	Japanese	cuisines.	With	Korea’s
extensive	coastal	and	mountainous	regions,	there	is	a	wide	variety	of	foods
consumed	in	the	diet.	
The	most	characteristic	flavour	of	Korean	food	is
spiciness;	strong	flavour	is	imparted	with	seasonings	including	red	pepper,	green

onion,	bean	paste	and	garlic.
A	traditional	Korean	meal	consists	of	a	bowl	of	rice,	meat	and	a	number	of
side	dishes.	Side	dishes	include	spicy	fermented	cabbage	(kimchi),	seasoned
soybean	sprouts	(kongnamul	muchim),	seasoned	spinach	(sigeumchi	namul),
steamed	eggplant	(gaji	namul),	and	braised	tofu	(dooboo	jorim).	When	having
Korean	style	barbeque	or	hot	pot,	athletes	who	need	to	limit	energy	intake
should	limit	the	common	fatty	meats	(pork	belly,	spare	ribs)	and	sauces	that
contain	fat	in	them.	Heated	stone	rice	(dolsot)	is	a	popular	and	healthy	dish
because	it	contains	rice	with	meat	and	vegetables.
Before	eating,	Korean	people	usually	say	to	the	cook,	serving	staff	or	food	
Jal
mukgesseubnida
,	which	literally	means	‘I	will	eat	well’	or	‘I	will	enjoy	this
meal’;	after	eating,	they	say	
Jal	muhguhsseubnida
,	which	means	‘I	ate	well’.
Unlike	other	Asian	countries,	Korean	chopsticks	and	other	dining	utensils	are
made	from	stainless	steel.	While	Chinese	and	Japanese	people	use	chopsticks	to
eat	rice,	Koreans	normally	consume	rice	with	a	spoon	instead	of	chopsticks	(as
eating	rice	with	chopsticks	is	considered	rude).	It	is	also	not	usual	to	lift	a	rice	or
soup	bowl	while	eating.
Southeast	Asia
Southeast	Asian	cuisine	includes	the	foods	of	Thailand,	Vietnam,	Indonesia,
Malaysia	and	Singapore.	The	traditional	Southeast	Asian	cuisines	have	a	strong
aromatic	component	using	different	spices	and	herbs,	such	as	mint,	coriander,
basil	and	lemon	grass.	Many	Southeast	Asian	cuisines	use	fish	sauce	as	a
substitute	for	soy	sauce.	Commonly	used	cooking	methods	are	stir-frying,
steaming	and	boiling.
Vietnam
The	ideal	Vietnamese	cuisine	has	a	balance	of	the	five	taste	elements—spicy,
sour,	bitter,	salt	and	sweet—which	provides	distinctive	flavour	by	using	herbs
(lemongrass,	mint	and	basil)	and	sauces	(fish	sauce	and	shrimp	paste),	as	well	as
fresh	seasonal	ingredients,	minimal	oil	and	a	variety	of	textures.
There	are	some	regional	variations	in	Vietnamese	cuisine.	In	northern
Vietnam,	the	cuisine	is	influenced	more	by	neighbouring	China	and	the	colder
climate	which	limits	the	production	and	availability	of	spices,	contributing	to	the
light	taste	of	Vietnamese	cuisine.	Black	pepper	is	used	in	place	of	chilli	to
produce	spicy	flavours.	The	use	of	meat,	pork,	beef	and	chicken	was	relatively
limited	in	the	past,	but	is	now	increasingly	commonplace	in	northern	Vietnamese
cuisine.	Seafood	is	widely	used	in	the	northern	area.	In	the	central	area	there	is
an	abundance	of	spices	produced	by	the	mountainous	terrain,	and	this	is

reflected	in	the	local	cuisine,	which	has	hot	and	spicy	flavours.	Chillies,	black
peppers	and	shrimp	sauces	are	among	the	widely	used	ingredients.	The	
dishes	in
this	area	are	served	in	small	portions,	making	them	ideal	for	shared	meals.	The
warm	weather	and	fertile	soil	of	southern	Vietnam	create	ideal	conditions	for
growing	a	wide	variety	of	fruits,	vegetables	and	livestock.	As	a	result,	foods	in
southern	Vietnam	are	often	vibrant	and	flavourful,	with	liberal	uses	of	garlic,
shallots,	and	fresh	herbs.	Rice	is	a	staple	food	in	Vietnamese	cuisine	and	appears
at	breakfast,	lunch,	dinner	and	dessert.	People	eat	rice	or	‘made-from-rice’
dishes	such	as	rice	porridge,	rice	noodle	(Pho),	and	square	rice	cake	(Banh
chung)	in	every	meal.
Thailand
Although	Thai	food	has	a	reputation	for	being	spicy,	traditional	Thai	cuisine,
like	Vietnamese	cuisine,	is	based	on	the	balance	of	five	different	flavours—
spicy,	sour,	sweet,	salty	and	bitter.	Each	Thai	dish	includes	at	least	three	or	four
different	tastes	by	using	herbs	or	seasoning	such	as	lemongrass,	basil,	coriander
and	kaffir	lime	leaves.
Thai	cuisine	can	be	described	based	on	four	different	regional	cuisines.	Not
surprisingly,	the	variations	tend	to	reflect	the	local	geography	and	climate	as
well	as	the	influence	of	neighbouring	countries.	In	the	northern	area,	the	taste	is
generally	milder	than	other	areas.	Due	to	the	influence	of	neighbouring
Myanmar	and	Laos,	people	prefer	glutinous	rice	(sticky	rice);	it	is	rolled	into	a
ball,	and	dipped	into	dishes	and	sauces.	Noodle-based	dishes	are	popular	in
northern	Thailand.	One	such	regional	dish	which	is	popular	in	Chiang	Mai	is
Khao	soi,	a	coconut	milk-based	curry	seasoned	with	curry	powder	and	served
with	egg	noodles.	The	food	in	the	northeast	of	Thailand	is	influenced	by	Laos;
the	food	is	highly	spiced,	and	sticky	glutinous	rice	is	the	preferred	staple	for
northeastern	dishes.	Food	in	the	southern	area	of	Thailand	is	renowned	for	being
strong	in	taste—very	hot,	salty	and	sour,	with	coconut	milk	used	in	many	dishes.
Because	the	south	has	a	huge	coastline,	fish	and	seafood	are	a	major	part	of	the
everyday	diet	and	are	often	grilled,	flavoured	with	chillies	and	lime,	roasted	in	a
pot	filled	with	salt,	boiled	in	curries,	stirred	into	salads	or	simply	deep-fried.	The
central	region	offers	a	melting	pot	of	tastes	from	the	north	and	south.	Jasmine
rice	(non-sticky	rice)	is	a	staple	food.	Tom	yam	kung	(hot	and	sour	soup)	and
Tom	kha	kai	(chicken	soup	in	coconut	milk)	originate	from	the	central	region.
However,	due	to	strong	Chinese	influence	in	the	central	region,	plain	soups	that
usually	include	tofu,	ground	pork	and	green	squash	are	also	common.	Curries	are
also	popular	in	Thailand	and	there	are	four	main	types	of	curries	(based	on
colour);	the	hottest	is	green	curry	followed	by	red,	yellow	and	orange	curry,	the

colour);	the	hottest	is	green	curry	followed	by	red,	yellow	and	orange	curry,	the
mildest.
Street	food	in	Asia
Street	food	is	very	popular	and	tempting	in	most	Asian	countries.	However,
caution	must	be	exercised	as	there	is	a	possible	risk	of	food	poisoning.	When
athletes	want	to	have	street	food,	they	should	purchase	it	from	reliable	street
vendors.	Reliable	street	vendors	can	be	identified	by	having	the	food	stored
below	4°C	and	raw	food	separated	from	cooked	food	and	protected	by
containers.	Athletes	should	also	be	wary	of	high-risk	foods	such	as	undercooked
or	raw	meats	and	seafood.
Box	25.1:	How	do	Thai	curries	differ	from	other	Asian
curries?
Generally,	Thai	curries	use	a	lot	of	coconut	milk	and	more	liquid	than
Indian	curries.	Thai	curries	use	a	lot	of	vegetables	and	even	meat	and
seafood	and	contain	local	ingredients	such	as	chilli	peppers,	lime	leaves,
lemon	grass	and	coconut	which	makes	them	more	aromatic	than	Indian
curries.	Japanese	curry	is	usually	thicker,	sweeter	(apple,	carrots	and
potatoes	are	common	ingredients	in	Japanese	curries)	and	not	as	hot	as	Thai
and	Indian	curries.	In	India,	curries	commonly	use	lentils	as	their	featured
ingredients.
Middle	East
The	countries	of	the	Middle	East	include	Afghanistan,	Iran,	Iraq,	Israel,	Kuwait,
Syria	and	the	United	Arab	Emirates.	In	general,	Middle	Eastern	cuisine	includes
an	extensive	range	of	spices	such	as	cumin,	cinnamon	and	cloves.	Rice	and
wheat	products—such	as	bread,	flat	breads	(naan,	pita	bread,	matzo),	burghul,
whole	wheat	and	couscous—are	staple	foods	and	served	with	most	dishes.	Most
countries	in	the	Middle	East	are	primarily	Islamic;	certain	dietary	rules	are
observed,	as	described	earlier	in	this	chapter.	Alcohol	is	prohibited	in	many
countries,	as	are	pork	products.	Chicken,	beef	and	lamb	are	popular	protein
choices	and	often	served	as	kebabs,	where	chunks	of	meat	are	cooked	skewered
with	vegetables.	Soups	and	side	dishes	include	lentils,	beans,	capsicum,	eggplant
and	other	vegetables.	Yoghurt	and	olive	oil	are	common	accompaniments	with
meals	as	well	as	being	used	in	the	cooking.	Butter	or	oil	is	heavily	used	when

meals	as	well	as	being	used	in	the	cooking.	Butter	or	oil	is	heavily	used	when
cooking	many	Middle	Eastern	dishes.	Ensure	you	discuss	with	athletes
suggestions	for	healthier	options,	such	as	olive	oil,	canola	oil,	avocado	oil,	etc.,
and	discuss	cooking	methods	that	use	less	oil	if	there	is	concern	over	their
kilojoule	intake.	In	the	Middle	East,	people	consider	eating	an	important
socialising	event	and	they	put	a	lot	of	food	on	the	table.	Therefore,	it	is	easy	to
go	for	second	and	third	helpings.	If	athletes	need	to	control	body	weight,	you
should	encourage	them	to	serve	their	dishes	on	smaller	plates	and	to	place
leftovers	in	the	fridge	right	away;	also	remind	them	that	it	takes	20–30	minutes
for	satiety	to	set	in.
Iran
Iranian	(also	known	as	Persian)	cuisine	is	gaining	popularity	in	many	countries.
Rice	and	wheat	products	(whole	wheat,	burghul,	couscous)	are	also	staple	foods
in	Iran.	Although	beef	and	poultry	are	consumed	in	Iran,	sheep	and	goat	are	the
preferred	meat	sources.	For	Iranians	living	near	coastlines,	fish	is	their	main
protein	source.	Other	plant-based	protein	sources,	such	as	beans,	chickpeas	and
lentils,	are	consumed	on	a	daily	basis	as	an	addition	to	stews,	or	mixed	with	rice
and	bread.	Because	Iran	is	a	Muslim	country,	pork	and	some	seafood	such	as
shellfish,	molluscs	and	lobster	are	considered	unclean.	Saffron,	dried	lime,
cinnamon	and	coriander	are	common	ingredients	in	Iranian	cuisine.
Israel
Israeli	cuisine	comprises	local	dishes	of	the	native	Israeli	people	as	well	as	foods
brought	by	immigrants	to	Israel.	The	Mediterranean	diet	also	has	an	influence	on
Israeli	cuisine,	with	olives,	wheat,	chickpeas,	dairy	products,	fish	and	vegetables
such	as	tomatoes,	eggplants	and	zucchini	featuring	in	Israeli	cooking.	Fresh
fruits	and	vegetables	are	plentiful	in	Israel	and	are	cooked	and	served	in	many
dishes.	As	the	majority	of	people	in	Israel	are	Jewish,	they	follow	Jewish	dietary
law	(Kashrut)	regarding	foods	consumed,	food	preparation	and	cooking
methods.	In	addition,	Jewish	festivals	or	special	occasions	influence	the	cuisine.
For	example,	in	Passover,	unleavened	bread	(Matzah)	and	other	unleavened
foods	are	eaten.	In	Hanukkah	(festival	of	light),	fried	food	such	as	sufganiyah
(jelly-filled	doughnuts)	and	latkes	(potato	pancakes)	are	served.	Eating	dairy
foods	such	as	cheese,	cheesecake	and	blintzes	(cheese-filled	crepes)	is	also
popular	and	is	a	newer	food	tradition	for	Hanukkah.
Lebanon
Lebanese	cuisine	has	evolved	and	been	influenced	through	its	long	history	of

Lebanese	cuisine	has	evolved	and	been	influenced	through	its	long	history	of
successive	invasions	by	the	Egyptians,	Babylonians,	Greeks,	Turks	and	French.
The	Lebanese	diet	focuses	on	herbs,	spices	and	fresh	ingredients	such	as	mint,
parsley,	garlic,	allspice	and	cinnamon.	Bread	such	as	marqouq	(mountain	bread)
or	Syrian	bread	is	a	staple	food	in	Lebanon	and	is	served	with	almost	every
meal.	Although	meat	is	not	a	major	ingredient	in	Lebanese	cuisine,	poultry	and
lamb	make	up	the	most	popular	Lebanese	dishes.	Mezzes,	an	array	of	small	hot
and	cold	dishes	which	are	shared,	is	another	popular	part	of	Lebanese	cuisine.
Turkey
While	partly	situated	within	Europe,	Turkish	dietary	patterns	have	similar
features	to	Middle	Eastern	cuisine.	Turkish	cuisine	varies	across	the	country	and
each	region	has	its	own	food	culture.	In	the	central,	eastern	and	southern	parts	of
Turkey,	oily,	spicy	
meat	dishes,	kebabs	and	dishes	made	with	grains	and
legumes	are	famous.	The	cuisine	of	the	Black	Sea	region	is	composed
predominantly	of	fish,	particularly	anchovies,	and	corn.	In	Marmara,	the	Aegean
and	Mediterranean	regions	are	rich	in	vegetables,	legumes,	beans,	fish,	olive	oil,
lemon	juice,	yoghurt	and	feta	cheese.	Turkish	people	consume	the	highest
amount	of	bread	in	the	world.	Rice,	pilaf,	couscous	and	börek	(filo	dough	stuffed
with	vegetables	or	meat)	are	common	meals.	Mutton,	lamb	and	beef	are	basic
components	of	Turkish	cuisine.	Organ	meats	such	as	brain,	liver	and	kidney	are
also	popular.	Kokoreç,	a	dish	of	Balkan	origin	made	of	skewered	lamb	intestines
barbecued	over	slow	heat,	is	sold	in	many	places	in	Turkey.
Arabian	Peninsula
The	Arabian	Peninsula	includes	Bahrain,	Kuwait,	Oman,	Qatar,	Saudi	Arabia,
the	United	Arab	Emirates	and	Yemen.	Arabic	cuisine	consists	of	lamb,	mutton,
chicken,	beef,	milk,	dates,	squash,	radishes	and	okra.	Common	spices	used	in
cooking	include	turmeric,	garlic,	cumin,	coriander,	fenugreek,	black	lemon	and
saffron.	Rice	is	also	a	staple	food	in	the	Arabian	Peninsula.	In	the	coastal
regions,	fish	and	seafood	are	more	heavily	offered.	Whole	fried	fish	is	preferred,
served	with	spring	onions.	Arabians	prefer	fermented	forms	of	dairy	products.
Australia	and	New	Zealand
The	food	and	cuisine	of	Australia	and	New	Zealand	is	wide	and	diverse,
reflecting	the	many	different	cultures	that	now	live	in	these	countries.	However,
traditionally	the	food	is	based	on	the	modest,	often	plain	and	hearty	British
(Anglo-Saxon)	diet,	which	reflects	the	first	line	of	migration	into	these	countries.

(Anglo-Saxon)	diet,	which	reflects	the	first	line	of	migration	into	these	countries.
This	cuisine	is	typified	by	the	‘meat	and	three	vegetables’,	representing	the
typical	meal	in	Australian	and	New	Zealand	dining	rooms	up	to	the	1970s.
However,	the	influence	of	Southern	European	migrants	from	Greece	and	Italy
from	the	1950s	to	the	1970s	introduced	a	more	diverse	diet	with	the	use	of
olives,	olive	oil	and	a	greater	variety	of	vegetables—often	cooked	in	tomato-
based	sauces—pasta	and	rice	dishes,	as	well	as	the	use	of	cured	and	spicy	meats.
Italian	cuisine	still	remains	a	popular	meal	choice	and	there	are	many	Italian-
style	restaurants	and	cafes.	Since	the	1980s,	it	has	been	Asian	immigration	that
has	influenced	cuisine,	with	the	widespread	appearance	of	stir-fries	using	fresh
herbs	and	sauces	with	noodles	or	rice,	while	curries	have	continued	to	grow	and
feature	in	the	cuisine	of	Australia	and	New	Zealand.
While	the	influx	of	different	migrant	groups	has	contributed	greatly	to	the
cuisine,	there	has	been	increasing	incorporation	of	Indigenous	foods	such	as
kangaroo,	small	marsupials,	emu,	crocodile,	turtle	and	witchetty	grubs	along
with	native	plants	such	as	quandong,	kutjera,	muntries,	riberry	and	finger	lime	in
Australia.	In	New	Zealand,	the	kumara	(sweet	potato)	and	taro	are	now	staples
of	the	diet.
In	both	Australia	and	New	Zealand,	fusion	cuisine	has	become	very	popular.
This	involves	the	combination	of	elements	from	different	culinary	traditions,
including	fusion	of	traditional	British	cuisine	and	Asian	influences,	as	well	as
fusion	with	Indigenous	ingredients.	The	fusion	of	Mediterranean	dishes	with
Asian	and	Middle	Eastern	influences	has	also	become	popular	in	the	restaurant
industry,	as	well	as	in	home	cooking.	This	has	led	to	a	diet	and	selection	of	foods
that	truly	represent	the	multicultural	nature	of	the	Austral-Asian	and	Middle
Eastern	regions.
For	the	athlete	travelling	to	Australia	and	New	Zealand,	it	is	highly	likely	they
will	find	their	favoured	traditional	cultural	or	religious	cuisine	in	restaurants,
cafes,	fast-food	and	foods	available	for	self-catering.	Bakeries	are	another
popular	eating	spot,	providing	a	range	of	breads,	rolls,	wraps	and	baked	pies	and
pasties	(meat	and	vegetable	fillings	encased	in	pastry).	Ensuring	adequate	intake
of	carbohydrates	at	each	meal	is	not	difficult	as	dishes	can	be	ordered	with	bread
and	pizza,	pasta,	rice,	noodles,	couscous	and	starchy	vegetables	are	all	common
components	in	meals	from	most	restaurants	and	cafes.	Eating	at	Italian,	Asian
and	Middle	Eastern	style	restaurants	will	ensure	most	meals	on	the	menu	contain
carbohydrate	(noodles,	rice,	pasta,	couscous).	Most	of	the	meals	listed	in	
Tables
25.1
	and	
25.2
	are	also	available	in	Australia	and	New	Zealand.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES

Previous	chapters	have	focused	on	the	specific	nutritional	requirements	to
support	the	needs	of	performance	and	activity	for	athletes.	An	equally	important
aspect	is	the	cultural,	religious	and	philosophical	food	choices	that	affect	an
athlete’s	dietary	intake.	It	is	important	to	take	this	into	consideration	when
assessing	and	making	recommendations	to	athletes.
Key	messages
•	Athletes	and	teams	come	from	a	variety	of	dietary	backgrounds	which	affect
food	choices.
•	It	is	important	to	prepare	athletes	for	the	foods	available	in	different	countries
so	that	they	are	able	to	meet	their	nutrient	recommendations	for	sports
performance.
•	Athletes	should	also	be	warned	about	countries	in	which	food	hygiene	needs	to
be	considered	to	avoid	gastrointestinal	illness.
•	Athletes	should	also	be	provided	with	education	about	suitable	high-
carbohydrate	(and,	where	relevant,	low-fat)	food	choices	to	meet	their
requirements	in	the	countries	they	are	visiting.
•	Different	religions	set	dietary	laws	that	can	affect	the	type	of	foods	that	are
consumed,	as	well	as	the	timing	of	food	consumption.
Table	25.1.	Summary	of	healthy	food	options	in	Asian	countries
China
(including
Hong	Kong,
Macau	and
Taiwan)
Japan
Korea
Vietnam
Main	and
entrée
Carbohydrate
source
•	Steamed	rice
•	Noodle	in	soup
•	Steamed	plain
bun
•	Congee/rice
porridge
•	Gohan
(steamed	rice)
•	Okyau
(congee)
•	Soba
(buckwheat
noodle)	or
Udon	in	soup
•	Sushi	(made
with	cooked
•	Bap
(steamed
rice)
•	Juk
(congee)
•	Bibimbap
(mixed	rice
with
vegetables
and	meat)	•
•	Com
(steamed
rice)
•	Chao
(congee)
•	Pho	(rice
noodle	in
soup)
•	Banh	mi
(Vietnamese

with	cooked
ingredients
only)
and	meat)	•
Dolsot
(heated
stone	bowl
rice)
•	Guksu
jangguk
(noodle	in
clear	broth)
(Vietnamese
baguette)
Desserts
Carbohydrate
source
•	Sweet	soybean
curd
•	Red/green
bean	sweet
soup
•	Mixed	beans
sweet	soup
•	Sweet	potato
soup
•	Anmitsu	(agar
jelly	with	red
bean	paste
and	fresh
fruit)	•	Mochi
(Japanese	rice
cake)
•	Shiruko	(red
bean	sweet
soup)
•	Tteok	(rice
cake)
•	Jeonggwa
(boiling
sliced	fruits,
roots	or
seeds	in
honey)	•
Patjuk	(hot
red	bean
porridge)
•	Chè	Trôi
N
ướ
c
(sweet
glutinous
rice
dumplings)
•	Chè
S
ươ
ng	Sa
H
ạ
t	L
ự
u
(rainbow
dessert)
Main	and
entrée
Protein
source
•	Steamed	meat
bun
•	Stir-fried/
steamed/boiled
meat,	fish	and
seafood	•
Steamed	tofu
and	egg
•	Teriyaki	meat
or	vegetable
•	Shabu/Sukiyai
(hot	pot	dish
with	meats)
•	Nikujaga
(stewed	meat
and	potato)
•	Nizakana
(poached	fish)
•	Steamed	or
cold	tofu
•	Chawanmushi
•	Gimbap
(Korean-
style	sushi)
•	Samgyetang
(ginseng
chicken
soup)
•	Haemultang
(seafood
stew)
•	Odeng
(skewered
fishcake)
•	Goi	cuon
(steamed
spring	roll)
•	Gà	nóng	s
ả
(roasted
chicken
with
lemongrass)
•	Ch
ả
	l
ụ
a
(pork
sausage)
•	Bò	Lúc	L
ắ
c

•	Chawanmushi
(steamed	egg
custard)
•	Oden	(stewed
fishcake,
eggs,	daikon)
•	Kushiyaki
(skewered
meat)
fishcake)
(sautéed
diced	beef)
•	Nem	ngu
ộ
i
(meatball)
Table	25.2.	Summary	of	healthy	food	options	in	Middle	East	countries
Iran
Israel
Lebanon
Turkey
Main	and
entrée
Carbohydrate
source
•	Rice
–	Polo/Chelo
(rice
cooked	in
broth)
–	Kateh
(sticky
rice)
–	Doodi
(smoked
rice)
•	Zereshk
polow
(bareberry
rice)
•	Naan	bread
•	Lavash	bread
•	Sangak	bread
•	Qandi	bread
•	Komaj
•	Pita	bread
•	Bagel
•	Challah
•	Sabich
(pita
bread
served
with
eggplant,
boiled
eggs,
Israeli
salad,
amba,
parsley,
tahini
sauce	and
hummus)
•	Ptitim
(Israeli
couscous)
•	Flat	breads
•	Rice
•	Lahma	bi
Ajeen	(Arab
pizza)
•	Laban
Immo
(cooked
yoghurt	and
lamb	with
rice)	•	Riz
bil-Foul
(rice	and
Fava	beans)
•	Riz	bi-Djaj
(chicken
with	rice)
•	Rice
•	Bazlama
•	Gözleme
•	Misur
ekmegi
(corn
bread)
•	Yufka
•	Sade	pilav
(plain	rice
pilaf)
•	Pathicanli
pilav	(rice
with
eggplant)
Dessert
Carbohydrate
•	Bastani	Akbar
Mashti
•	Fazuelos
•	Tahini
•	Baklava
•	Date	pastry
•	Baklava
•	Sütlaç	(rice

Carbohydrate
source
Mashti
(saffron	ice
cream)
•	Fereni
(Persian	rice
pudding)
•	Sholezard
(saffron	rice-
based	dessert)
•	Halva	Ardeh
(semolina-
based	dessert)
•	Tahini
cookie
•	Rugelach
•	Date	pastry
•	Nammourah
(Lebanese
semolina
cake)
•	Sütlaç	(rice
pudding)
•	Tavuk
gögsü
(gelatinous,
milk
pudding
dessert)	•
Turkish
delight
Main	and
entrée
Protein
source
•	Kebab	(lamb
or	beef)
•	Dolma
(stuffed
grapevine
leaves)
•	Khoresh	(stew
dishes)
–	Baghala
ghatogh
(stewed
fava	beans,
dill	and
eggs)	–
Dizi
(mutton
stew	with
chickpeas
and
potatoes)	–
Khoresh	e
alu
(stewed
prunes	and
meat)
•	Kebab
•	Tilapia
•	Moussaka
(oven-
baked
dish	of
ground
meat	with
eggplant
or	potato
and
béchamel
sauce)
•	Kebbe
Lakteen
(meatballs)
•	Shish	Barak
(dough	balls
stuffed	with
ground	beef
and	cooked
in	yoghurt)
•	Deleh
Mehshi
(stuffed	rib
cage	of
lamb)
•	Kafta
Bithine
(spiced
meat	with
sesame
concentrate)
•	Kuzu
güveç
•	Ankara
tava	(pilav
with	lamb)
•	Köfte
(meatball)
•Íncik	(lamb
shank
cooked	in
the	oven)
•	Etli	bamya
(okra	with
meat)

FURTHER	READING
Liu,	J.,	2011,	
Introduction	to	Chinese	Culture
,	1st	edn,	New	York,	NY:
Cambridge	University	Press.
Edelstein,	S.,	2010,	
Food,	Cuisine,	and	Cultural	Competency	for	Culinary,
Hospitality,	and	Nutrition	Professionals
,	1st	edn,	Sudbury,	MA:	Jones	&
Bartlett	Learning.

Working	with	athletes
Anthony	Meade
The	preceding	chapters	have	provided	us	with	an	overview	of	the	key	concepts
in	sports	nutrition.	While	there	are	common	themes,	concepts	and	athlete	goals,
there	are	also	individual	challenges	in	translating	these	concepts	into
meaningful,	practical	sports	nutrition	advice.	In	this	chapter,	we	will	explore
how	to	turn	theoretical	sports	nutrition	information	and	food	knowledge	into
practical,	individualised	sports	nutrition	advice	in	various	settings.	We	will	also
look	at	the	roles	of	sports	dietitians	as	well	as	other	sport	and	nutrition
professionals	in	providing	nutrition	advice	and	support	for	athletes.
LEARNING	OUTCOMES
Upon	completion	of	this	chapter	you	will	be	able	to:
•	understand	the	role	of	a	sports	dietitian	within	the	team	of	support	people	for
an	athlete
•	describe	the	skills	needed	to	work	as	a	sports	dietitian	with	individual	athletes
•	describe	the	skills	needed	to	work	as	a	sports	dietitian	with	team	sport	athletes

•	describe	the	skills	needed	to	work	as	a	sports	dietitian	with	team	sport	athletes
and	within	a	team	sport	environment
•	recognise	the	various	roles	of	support	staff	in	the	implementation	of	team
sports	nutrition	practices.
THE	ROLE	OF	A	SPORTS	DIETITIAN:	MORE
THAN	JUST	DIETARY	ADVICE
Sports	dietitians	are	highly	trained	and	specialised	nutrition	professionals.	In
Australia,	accreditation	as	a	sports	dietitian	requires	completion	of	at	least	a
four-year	university	degree	in	dietetics,	additional	training	in	sports	nutrition	and
several	years	of	practical	experience.	The	environments	in	which	sports
dietitians	work	are	varied	and	include	private	clinics,	sports	institutes,	sports
teams,	universities,	research	and	industry.	In	this	chapter,	we	will	focus	on	the
two	most	common	environments:	private	clinical	practice	and	team	sports.
There	are	many	challenges	to	working	as	a	sports	dietitian,	but	the	need	to
work	independently,	often	as	a	sole	practitioner,	is	perhaps	the	most	common.
Communication	and	organisational	skills	are	as	important	as	clinical
knowledge	and	skills.	High-level	communication	skills	are	critical	for	building
rapport	with	the	athlete,	as	well	as	for	detailed	nutrition	assessment	and
implementation	of	plans,	and,	perhaps	even	more	importantly,	for	involving
other	members	of	the	athlete	support	team	in	these	processes.	While	there	are
equipment	and	technologies	that	can	enhance	what	a	sports	dietitian	does,	none
can	replace	good	communication	skills.
The	ability	to	manage	time,	prioritise	workflows	and	adjust	to	unexpected
situations	are	skills	common	to	many	professional	people,	but	critical	to	success
as	a	sports	dietitian,	as	we	will	explore	below.
NON-TEAM	ENVIRONMENT
One	of	the	biggest	challenges	working	in	the	private	clinical	setting	is	being
remote	from	the	other	members	of	the	athlete	support	team.
There	are	advantages	to	working	within	a	sports	medicine	clinic,	where	the
other	professionals	in	the	clinic	are	also	involved	with	the	same	or	similar
athletes	or	sporting	teams.	However,	this	is	not	always	possible	so	a	thorough
training	history,	medical	history,	analysis	of	goals,	objectives	and	timelines,	and
body	composition	assessment	are	as	important	as	a	diet	history	(see	
Chapters	7
and	
8
	for	more	detail	about	dietary	assessment	and	dietary	counselling).
Understanding	the	roles	of	the	other	clinicians	and	being	able	to	ask	questions

Understanding	the	roles	of	the	other	clinicians	and	being	able	to	ask	questions
about	non-nutritional	management	is	helpful	when	planning	nutrition
interventions.	For	example,	liaising	with	the	athlete’s	physiotherapist	during
injury	rehabilitation	can	guide	periodisation	of	energy	and	protein	intakes	during
the	different	phases	of	the	rehabilitation	program.	In	addition,	including	other
members	of	the	multidisciplinary	team	in	the	nutritional	planning	conversation
can	increase	the	athlete’s	support	and	adherence,	as	well	as	being	a	valuable
source	of	insight	into	the	athlete’s	progress	and	challenges,	particularly	between
consultations.
Importantly,	the	athletes	who	come	to	private	clinical	practice	are	often	highly
motivated,	even	if	they	do	not	compete	at	an	elite	level.	In	fact,	some	age	group
and	recreational	athletes	may	be	more	motivated	to	optimise	their	nutrition
practice	than	elite	or	professional	athletes,	and	may	come	with	unique	needs	not
seen	in	elite	athletes.
Where	possible,	it	is	useful	to	encourage	the	athlete	to	come	to	their
appointment	prepared	with	training	diaries	or	plans	and	even	a	multi-day	food
record.	Unfortunately,	in	private	clinical	practice	it	is	not	always	possible	to
know	much	about	a	client	until	they	walk	through	the	door;	however,	it	pays	to
research	the	athlete’s	chosen	sport/event	in	advance,	if	possible.	If	it	is	a	sport
with	which	you	are	unfamiliar,	it	is	far	better	to	recognise	the	limitations	of	your
knowledge	and	invest	time	asking	questions	of	the	athlete	(or	spending	time
doing	some	research)	than	to	pretend	to	know	(and	demonstrate	your	lack	of
knowledge)	and	lose	the	client.
Take	time	to	understand	what	it	is	that	the	athlete	wants	from	you.	It	may	be	a
complete	nutrition	assessment	and	eating	pattern	overhaul;	it	may	be	some
targeted	questions	or	a	competition	or	race-day	plan;	or	it	may	be	a	new	clinical
issue	(such	as	diagnosis	of	diabetes	or	other	health	concern)	that	requires
reassessment	of	current	training	nutrition	strategies.
When	working	in	private	practice,	it	is	highly	recommended	to	get	involved
with	the	local	sports	medicine	community.	Being	visible	within	the	sports
medicine	community	has	many	advantages.	Involvement	in	professional
meetings,	conferences	and	professional	development	sessions	can	raise	your
profile	and	lead	to	increased	referrals	and	other	opportunities	with	athletes,
teams	and	organisations	that	other	sports	medicine	professionals	are	involved
with,	as	well	as	providing	a	better	understanding	of	the	roles	of	other	members
of	the	athlete	support	team.	Having	professional	networks	for	support	is	critical
to	effective	private	practice	so	that	you	know	who	to	call	or	email	when	you
need	support.	Another	benefit	is	gaining	insights	into	training,	medical	and
nutritional	practices	from	other	sports	and	other	practitioners,	which	can	often	be
applied	or	adapted	to	other	athletes.

applied	or	adapted	to	other	athletes.
TEAM	ENVIRONMENT
There	are	common	elements	to	working	in	private	clinical	practice	and	working
in	sporting	teams,	institutes	or	sporting	organisations,	but	there	are	also	many
additional	considerations	and	roles	when	providing	support	to	a	team	or	squad.
The	individual	client/athlete	nutrition	assessment	and	advice	are	essentially	the
same	regardless	of	the	setting;	however,	the	structures	in	place	in	a	team	or
organisation	add	both	advantages	and	complexity	to	the	implementation.
Access	to	other	members	of	the	athlete	support	team	is	likely	to	be	easier,	or
at	least	more	clear	and	consistent,	in	a	team	environment,	but	communication	is
essential	
for	success.	Within	a	sporting	team	environment,	a	sports	dietitian
would	commonly	interact	with	many	other	individuals	including:
•	players	and	athletes
•	administrators	and	administrative	staff
•	sponsorship	and	marketing	staff
•	coaches
•	physical	performance	staff/sports	science	staff
•	support	staff	(team	managers,	trainers,	volunteers)
•	medical	staff
•	other	allied	health	professionals	(physiotherapy,	psychology,	massage)
•	food	service	and	catering	suppliers,	food	companies
•	supplement	companies,	representatives
•	universities	and	academic	researchers.
Starting	in	a	new	team	environment	can	be	daunting,	particularly	if	there	has
been	a	lack	of	nutrition	services	provided	previously.	The	team	is	likely	to	have
expectations	of	the	role,	although	these	may	not	necessarily	align	with	your	own
expectations,	skills	and	abilities.	In	many	situations,	budget	constraints	may
mean	there	is	a	specific	focus	area	while	other	aspects	of	nutrition	are	considered
less	important	or	optional	extras.	When	starting	out,	it	is	important	to	get	a	clear
role	description	and	familiarise	yourself	with	governance	structures,
communication	and	reporting	lines	and	the	areas	considered	high	priority.	Then
you	need	to	identify	who	everyone	is,	what	their	roles	are,	where	everything	is
and	how	everything	is	currently	working.	Oh,	and	as	quick	as	you	can	please!

Box	26.1:	Tips	for	sports	dietitians	starting	out	in	a	new	team
•	Make	as	many	friends	as	you	can	by	listening	to	all	of	the	people	involved
and	understanding	the	team	dynamics.
•	Make	as	many	notes	as	you	can	and	be	prepared	to	report	back.
•	Pick	off	low-hanging	fruit	as	far	as	problems	go—look	for	easy	fixes	and
efficiencies	that	can	quickly	build	your	credibility.
•	Be	prepared	to	be	flexible	and	deal	with	issues	at	short	notice.	It	is	not
uncommon	to	be	asked	to	change	a	plan	after	a	team	loss	or	a	coaching
observation,	even	though	it	may	not	always	appear	rational	or	a	high
priority.
Unless	you’re	starting	out	with	a	newly	created	club,	there	are	likely	to	be
established	systems	and	structures	that	have	developed	over	many	years.	Some
of	these	may	have	evolved	over	time,	others	remain	unchanged	because	no	one
remembers	why	things	are	done	a	certain	way,	and	others	are	compromised	due
to	limited	resources,	personnel,	skills	or	time.	Be	prepared	to	invest	time	in
observation,	thinking	about	how	you	see	an	ideal	set	up	and	assessing	what	is
and	what	is	not	working.	Talk	to	as	many	of	the	support	staff	as	you	can	to
gather	information	about	how	well	they	think	systems	work,	and	be	prepared	to
explore	the	history	of	how	the	team/club/organisation	has	evolved	to	better
understand	how	things	work.
WORKING	WITH	PLAYERS	AND	ATHLETES
Invest	time	learning	who	the	players	are,	their	experience	levels,	those	perceived
to	be	good	at	what	they	do	and	those	who	need	work.	With	this	knowledge	in
mind,	remain	objective	and	be	prepared	to	assess.
In	any	team	there	will	be	leaders	and	influencers	who	other	athletes	will	look
to,	observe	or	aspire	to	be.	Invest	time	figuring	out	who	the	‘influencers’	and
‘early-adopters’	are	and	get	to	know	what	they	do	that	can	be	used	to	guide	other
players/	athletes.	If	you	are	trying	to	implement	a	new	strategy	or	change	an
existing	practice,	you	can	make	good	use	of	the	‘early-adopters’	to	help	sell	what
you	are	trying	to	do.	The	dietitian’s	role	is	often	linked	with	weight	reduction	or
the	need	to	reduce	skinfolds,	and	in	some	teams	it	is	seen	as	a	negative	or	‘being
in	trouble’	to	get	a	dietitian’s	input.	Being	seen	to	work	with	the	‘good’	athletes
who	others	consider	not	to	need	your	input	is	a	valuable	way	to	build	credibility

who	others	consider	not	to	need	your	input	is	a	valuable	way	to	build	credibility
and	reduce	anxiety	of	‘having	to	see	the	dietitian’!
Ultimately,	the	sports	dietitian’s	goal	is	to	create	an	environment	in	which
athletes	feel	comfortable	asking	for	nutritional	advice	to	improve	their
performance.
It	is	important	to	learn	the	player	schedules	to	find	times	to	fit	in
appointments.	These	may	be	small	windows	of	opportunity,	sometimes	just	to
complete	an	assessment	before	a	training	session	with	a	plan	to	follow	up	after
the	training	session.	These	conversations	may	be	in	an	office	or	quiet	room,
changerooms,	corridors,	warm-up	areas,	the	gym,	the	race,	recovery	stations,
over	lunch	or	with	a	coffee	or	on	the	training	ground.	Some	players	may	be	quite
comfortable	having	a	discussion	in	front	of	teammates,	others	may	only	be
comfortable	in	a	quiet	room	away	from	prying	eyes.	It	is	always	a	good	idea	to
offer	a	quiet	space	and	ask	what	the	player	would	prefer.	There	are	many	factors
that	may	affect	a	player’s	ability	on	a	daily	basis	to	keep	an	appointment	time,	so
be	flexible,	reschedule	as	needed,	remind	(and	remind	again),	be	in	a	place	the
players	can	easily	find	you	and	let	other	staff	know	you	have	an	appointment	so
they	can	also	remind	the	player.
Importantly,	when	setting	up	appointments,	ask	or	learn	how	the	players
prefer	to	be	contacted	or	notified,	as	this	is	likely	to	vary.	Phone	calls,	text
messaging	and	social	media	applications	may	be	more	effective	than	emails.
Appointment	times	on	a	prominent	noticeboard	can	be	helpful	if	the	players
know	to	look	there,	but	useless	if	not.	It	is	prudent	not	to	assume	a	player	will
remember	their	appointment.
Not	every	conversation	is	formal	or	takes	place	in	a	consultation	room.	While
appointments	generally	make	life	easier	to	perform	more	detailed	assessments
and	provide	education,	it	is	equally	important	to	be	visible	and	to	‘float’	around
so	as	to	be	available	to	ask	questions.	Being	at	training,	or	key	positions	such	as
recovery	stations,	often	leads	to	conversations	that	develop	rapport	and	allow
you	to	demonstrate	what	you	do	in	a	more	‘public’	space.	Sometimes
overhearing	player	conversations	(or	players	overhearing	your	conversations)
encourages	other	individual	or	group	discussions,	initiated	by	the	players	or	the
dietitian.
Obviously,	individual	nutrition	assessment	and	education	are	a	major	part	of	a
sports	dietitian’s	responsibilities,	but	there	are	many	other	aspects	to	the	role	that
may	take	up	as	much	or	more	time.
The	amount	of	time	dealing	directly	with	administrators	and	administrative
staff	will	vary	from	role	to	role	and	the	size	of	the	club/team/organisation.	There
are	likely	to	be	meetings	and	committees	set	up	to	deal	with	budgets	and
expenditure,	policy	and	procedural	issues,	and	often	integrity	issues,	which	are
now	commonplace	in	major	sporting	competitions.	You	may	be	asked	to

now	commonplace	in	major	sporting	competitions.	You	may	be	asked	to
complete	accreditation	procedures	before	being	employed	or	to	work	in	specific
competitions.	Where	teams	travel	for	competition,	a	good	working	relationship
with	the	person	organising	the	travel	is	essential	to	ensure	that	arrangements	for
meals	are	consistent	with	the	principles	you	are	applying	in	individual
consultations,	and	that	individual	needs	(intolerances,	beliefs,	goals)	and	team
philosophies	are	appropriately	catered	for.
WORKING	WITH	ADMINISTRATIVE	AND
COACHING	STAFF
Sponsorship	and	marketing	is	a	key	role	in	any	major	sporting	organisation.
There	are	times	when	sponsorship	opportunities	arise	that	may	be	beneficial	to
the	nutrition	program	and	the	club,	but	there	will	also	be	times	where	a
sponsorship	opportunity	may	conflict,	so	it	is	important	to	build	a	solid
relationship	with	the	sponsorship	and	marketing	team.	In	addition,	the
sponsorship	and	marketing	team	will	be	interested	in	what	you	might	need	for
the	team	and	can	help	leverage	a	deal.	Often	the	dealings	will	be	for	sports
nutrition	supplements	or	food	products,	where	knowledge	of	the	product	and
doping	risks	is	crucial	to	signing	a	deal.	A	deal	that	adds	no	value	to	what	you	do
or	causes	major	conflicts	needs	to	be	addressed	with	care.	When	sponsorship
deals	are	done,	it	is	important	to	understand	details	such	as	the	value	of	the	deal
(including	
contraindications	or	agreed	spends),	sponsor	expectations	(such	as
product	placement	during	games)	and	club	expectations	(such	as	product	batch-
testing,	product	availability	and	ordering/purchasing	arrangements).
Coaches	will	bring	their	own	attitudes	and	philosophies	to	a	team,	and	this
includes	beliefs	about	nutrition	and	nutrition	services.	Some	coaches	will	have
worked	with	sports	dietitians	before,	while	others	may	have	had	limited
exposure	to	the	role.	Experiences	may	have	been	both	positive	and	negative,	so
it	is	wise	to	establish	rapport	with	coaching	staff,	learn	their	expectations	and
explain	your	role.	Governance	structures	will	vary.	Some	coaches	like	to	have
direct	communication	with	the	dietitian,	while	others	may	prefer	to	communicate
through	an	intermediary	such	as	a	high-performance	manager.	A	coach’s
personal	philosophies	around	nutrition	may	not	always	align	with	current	or
optimal	sports	nutrition	practices	and	can	conflict	with	individual	advice	you
give	to	a	player—just	another	challenge	for	a	sports	dietitian	in	the	team
environment.
It	is	common	for	a	sports	dietitian	to	report	to	a	manager	of	high	performance
or	sports	science	and	be	included	in	the	sports	science	team.	Developing	an	open

or	sports	science	and	be	included	in	the	sports	science	team.	Developing	an	open
relationship	with	the	high-performance	manager	is	critical	for	the	success	of
both	roles	but	can	be	challenging	if	philosophies	are	not	aligned.	Be	prepared	to
be	challenged	to	find	small	performance	gains	through	practice	efficiencies,
education	and	nutritional	supplement	strategies.	Be	prepared	to	defend	nutrition
strategies	with	evidence,	but	also	to	propose	and	trial	new	practices	in	a	strategic
way.	The	physical	performance	team	will	expect	a	level	of	innovation	but	be
mindful	if	innovation	becomes	more	important	than	getting	basic	practices	right.
WORKING	WITH	NUTRITION	SUPPORT	STAFF
A	sports	dietitian	is	the	best	person	to	
oversee
	team	nutrition	strategies,	but	the
sports	science	team	is	critical	to	the	
implementation
	of	team	nutrition	practices,
with	many	roles	not	exclusive	to	sports	dietitians.	Sports	science	tasks	may
include	taking	anthropometric	measurements	such	as	skinfolds	and	organising
DXA	scans,	monitoring	hydration	practices	with	urine	specific	gravity
measurements,	fluid	balance	and	sweat	studies,	organising	and	monitoring
recovery	nutrition	practices,	helping	with	game-day	nutrition	practices,	chasing
player	preferences	and	feedback,	and	providing	feedback	on	team	meals,
particularly	when	teams	travel	without	a	dietitian.	While	sports	dietitians	in
larger	teams	(such	as	AFL	or	rugby	teams)	will	often	assume	these	roles,	in
smaller	teams	with	limited	sports	dietitian	time	these	will	often	fall	to	sports
science	professionals	(including	students)	instead.	In	most	teams,	the	sports
science	staff	will	have	far	more	frequent	interactions	with	players	and	are	well
placed	to	observe	practices,	interpret	training	data,	overhear	conversations,
monitor	stock	levels	and	usage,	and	liaise	with	coaches	to	provide	valuable
insights	for	the	team	sports	dietitian.
Other	support	staff,	such	as	team	managers,	trainers,	volunteers,	medical	staff
and	other	allied	health	professionals	(physiotherapy,	psychology,	massage,
player	welfare),	are	important	to	engage	in	team-focused	nutrition	philosophies
and	strategies.	An	effective	working	relationship	with	all	of	these	people	will
have	a	major	impact	on	how	successful	team	nutrition	strategies	are,	as	they	will
often	be	involved	in	the	implementation.	Involving	support	staff	in	decision-
making	and	implementation	of	nutrition	strategies	is	a	great	way	to	demonstrate
your	knowledge,	skills	and	value	within	the	team	environment.	Perhaps	even
more	importantly,	many	of	these	staff	are	likely	to	be	present	in	the	team
environment	more	often	than	the	sports	dietitian,	so	be	mindful	that	the	support
staff	will	be	crucial	to	maintaining	nutrition	strategies	when	the	dietitian	is	not

around.
Support	staff	are	often	able	to	provide	significant	observational	feedback	on
individual	practices	and	team	nutrition	strategies.	Major	sporting	teams	may	take
a	sports	dietitian	when	travelling	for	competition;	however,	this	is	a	luxury	for
smaller	teams,	so	a	sports	dietitian	will	rely	on	the	game-day	or	competition-day
observations	of	support	staff.
Player	welfare	staff	are	often	employed	by	sporting	teams	and	can	provide
valuable	insight	into	player	living	situations,	personal	relationships,	mental
health	and	coping	strategies	and	other	personal	insights	that	can	assist	a	sports
dietitian	to	work	effectively	with	individuals	within	a	team	environment.	This
insight	can	help	the	sports	dietitian	to	be	sensitive	to	personal	issues	that	may
impact	on	an	athlete’s	ability	to	implement	nutrition	strategies	and	to	identify
issues	that	the	athlete	may	disclose	in	a	nutrition	consultation.
A	sports	dietitian	in	a	team	environment	will	also	spend	a	significant	amount
of	time	in	contact	with	food	service	and	catering	suppliers,	food	companies,
supplement	companies	and	representatives.	The	range	of	activities	can	vary	from
arranging	team	meals	during	the	training	week	and	team	meals	for	away	trips,
catering	for	club	events,	organising	cooking	sessions	for	players,	sourcing	new
products	for	sampling	and	supply,	and	clarifying	nutrition	information.	Good
food	product	knowledge	as	well	as	knowledge	of	commercial	cooking	practices
is	essential	for	these	roles.	Cooking	food	in	commercial	quantities	is	very
different	from	cooking	at	home,	and	products	commonly	used	at	home	may	not
be	available	to	commercial	caterers.	Catering	for	individual	needs	can	be
challenging	with	commercial	catering	but	being	prepared,	having	realistic
expectations	and	investing	time	speaking	with	caterers	can	save	unnecessary
stress	and	negative	feedback.
It	is	common	for	the	sports	dietitian	in	a	team	environment	to	be	provided
with	samples	of	new	products	that	need	to	be	assessed	for	suitability.
Endorsement	by	association	is	a	common	goal	of	product	sales	and	marketing
people,	but	remain	objective	
and	utilise	other	staff	within	the	organisation	to
make	decisions	about	new	products.
It	is	common	in	elite	sporting	teams	to	have	significant	links	with	universities
and	academic	researchers.	Not	only	are	these	relationships	valuable	for	keeping
abreast	of	the	latest	research,	they	can	also	be	useful	for	researching	and
validating	nutritional	interventions,	and	supporting	students	to	complete	projects
and	clinical	placements	within	the	team	environment.
SUMMARY	AND	KEY	MESSAGES

After	reading	this	chapter,	you	should	be	familiar	with	the	role	of	a	sports
dietitian	in	private	practice	and	in	team	settings,	and	be	able	to	describe	a
number	of	strategies	for	working	with	athletes	and	other	members	of	sports
organisations.	You	should	also	be	familiar	with	the	nutrition-related	roles	of
other	support	staff	in	team	environments.	For	more	information	about	the
differences	in	scope	of	practice	for	sport	and	nutrition	professionals,	refer	to	the
Introduction.
Key	messages
•	Sports	dietitians	are	highly	trained	and	specialised	nutrition	professionals	who
work	in	a	variety	of	settings.
•	Communication	and	organisational	skills	are	integral	to	successful	practice	in
both	one-on-one	and	team	settings.
•	It	is	important	to	invest	time	to	observe	and	understand	current	practices	when
implementing	change.
•	Sports	dietitians	should	understand	the	roles	of	other	staff	in	the	athlete	support
team	and	utilise	their	knowledge	and	skills	to	enhance	their	practice.
•	There	are	a	number	of	staff	within	sporting	organisations	who	play	a	role	in
improving	nutrition	practices.

GLOSSARY
Absolute	exercise	intensity:
	The	total	amount	of	energy	expended	(expressed	in
kilojoules	or	kilocalories)	to	produce	mechanical	work.
Accredited	Exercise	Scientist:
	A	specialist	in	the	assessment,	design	and
delivery	of	exercise	and	physical	activity	programs.
Acidosis:
	A	process	causing	increased	acidity	in	the	blood	and	other	body	tissue.
Adenosine:
	A	chemical	that	naturally	occurs	in	humans	and	which	causes	a
decrease	in	alertness	and	arousal	when	it	binds	to	receptors	on	the	surface	of
cells	in	the	brain.
Aerobic:
	Exercise	at	an	intensity	that	is	low	enough	to	allow	the	body’s	need	for
oxygen	(to	break	down	macronutrients)	to	be	matched	to	the	oxygen	supply
available.
Aerobic	capacity:
	The	ability	of	the	body	to	take	in	and	distribute	oxygen	to	the
working	muscles	during	exercise.
Allometric	scaling:
	Basing	an	individual’s	basal	metabolic	rate	(BMR)	and
hence	requirements	on	their	body	mass.
Amenorrhea
:	The	absence	or	cessation	of	menstruation.	Primary	amenorrhea	is
defined	as	the	delay	of	the	first	menstruation	past	16	years	of	age.	Secondary
amenorrhea	is	defined	as	the	absence	of	three	to	six	consecutive	cycles.
Amino	acids:
	The	building	blocks	of	protein,	composed	of	a	central	carbon	to
which	is	attached	a	hydrogen	(H),	an	amino	group	(NH
2
),	a	carboxylic	acid
group	(COOH)	and	a	side	chain	group.
Anabolic:
	An	anabolic	effect	refers	to	the	‘building	up’	and	repair	of	tissues
through	increased	protein	synthesis	and	cell	growth.	It	is	the	opposite	of
‘catabolism’,	which	refers	to	the	breakdown	of	molecules.
Anabolic	reactions:
	Small	molecules	join	to	form	a	larger	molecule	in	the
presence	of	energy	(ATP).
Anabolic	steroids:
	Drugs	which	help	the	repair	and	build	of	muscle	tissues,
derived	from	the	male	hormone	testosterone.
Anaerobic:
	Exercise	at	an	intensity	where	the	body’s	demand	for	oxygen	is
greater	than	the	oxygen	supply	available,	therefore	relying	on	anaerobic
metabolism	and	the	production	of	lactate.

Anions:
	Negatively	charged	ions,	which	means	they	have	lost	electrons.
Anthropometry:
	The	comparative	study	of	measurement	of	sizes	and
proportions	of	the	human	body.
Antioxidants:
	Substances	that	decrease	free	radical	damage	by	donating	an
electron	to	‘neutralise’	free	radicals.
Arginine:
	A	conditionally	essential	amino	acid	that	has	been	shown	to	have
benefits	in	wound	healing.
Beverage-hydration	index:
	An	index	system	that	has	been	developed	to
describe	the	fluid	retention	capacity	of	different	beverages	by	standardising
values	to	the	retention	of	still	water.
Biomechanical:
	Pertaining	to	the	mechanical	nature	of	the	body’s	biological
processes,	such	as	movements	of	the	skeleton	and	muscles.
Body	density:
	The	compactness	of	a	body,	defined	as	the	mass	divide	by	its
volume.
Body-image	disorder:
	A	mental	disorder	in	which	an	individual	continually
focuses	on	one	or	more	perceived	flaws	in	appearance	that	are	minor	or	not
observable	to	others.
Bolus:
	A	portion,	with	respect	to	food,	that	is	swallowed	at	one	time.
Bonking:
	An	athletic	term	describing	a	sudden	and	overwhelming	feeling	of
running	out	of	energy,	often	also	termed	‘hitting	the	wall’	during	endurance
events.
Brush	border:
	The	microvilli-covered	surface	of	the	epithelial	cells	in	the
surface	of	the	small	intestine.
Buffer:
	A	chemical	system	within	the	body	that	aims	to	counteract	a	change	in
the	blood	pH,	defined	by	the	blood	[H
+
].
Carbohydrate	availability
:	Consideration	of	the	timing	and	amount	of
carbohydrate	(CHO)	intake	in	the	athlete’s	diet	in	comparison	to	the	muscle
fuel	costs	of	the	training	or	competition	schedule.	Scenarios	of	‘high
carbohydrate	availability’	cover	strategies	in	which	body	CHO	supplies	can
meet	the	fuel	costs	of	the	exercise	program,	whereas	‘low	carbohydrate
availability’	considers	scenarios	in	which	endogenous	and/or	exogenous	CHO
supplies	are	less	than	muscle	fuel	needs.
Cardiac	output:
	The	product	of	an	individual’s	heart	rate	(the	amount	of	times
the	heart	contracts	per	minute)	and	stroke	volume	(the	volume	of	blood
ejected	from	the	heart	per	minute).
Cardiorespiratory	exercise:
	Whole-body,	dynamic	exercise	that	taxes
predominantly	the	cardiovascular	and	respiratory	systems,	such	as	running,
cycling	and	swimming.
Cardiovascular	system:
	A	system	of	the	body	consisting	of	the	heart,	blood

vessels	and	blood	that	delivers	nutrients	to	the	body	and	removes	waste
products.
Casein	protein:
	Casein	is	a	family	of	related	phosphoproteins,	which	are	found
in	mammalian	milk.	About	80	per	cent	of	the	protein	in	cow’s	milk	is	casein.
Catabolic	reactions:
	Biochemical	reactions	that	result	in	the	breakdown	of	large
molecules	and	give	off	energy	in	the	form	of	ATP.
Cations:
	Positively	charged	ions,	which	means	they	have	gained	electrons.
Central	nervous	system:
	Composed	of	the	brain	and	spinal	cord,	the	central
nervous	system	is	responsible	for	control	of	our	thoughts,	movements	and
regulation.
Chyme:
	The	mass	of	partially	digested	food	that	leaves	the	stomach	and	enters
the	duodenum.
Circadian	process	desynchronisation:
	Disruption	of	the	sleep–wake
cycle/circadian	rhythm.
Cis	form:
	In	a	molecule,	the	C	atoms	that	have	double	bonds	and	the	H	atoms
are	on	the	same	side.
Coeliac	disease:
	Autoimmune	disease	in	which	the	immune	system	reacts
abnormally	to	gluten,	causing	damage	to	the	small	intestine.
Coenzyme:
	A	substance	that	works	with	an	enzyme	to	initiate	or	assist	the
function	of	the	enzyme.	It	may	be	considered	a	helper	molecule	for	a
biochemical	reaction.
Conduction:
	The	transfer	of	heat	from	one	object	to	another	through	contact.
Heat	is	transferred	from	the	warmer	to	the	cooler	object.
Convection:
	The	transfer	of	heat	through	the	movement	of	warmer	liquids	or
gases	towards	areas	that	are	cooler,	usually	due	to	air	or	water	flow	over	the
skin.	The	greater	the	flow	of	air	or	water,	the	greater	the	heat	transfer.
Creatine	supplementation:
	Supplementation	with	synthetic	creatine	can
augment	the	level	of	creatine	in	the	body	and	lead	to	enhanced	performance
of	power	activities.
Cytoplasm:
	The	semifluid	substance	contained	within	a	cell.
Denaturation:
	The	change	that	occurs	in	a	protein’s	shape	and	structure	and
resulting	in	loss	of	function.	This	denaturation	may	occur	due	to	external
stressors	such	as	chemicals,	temperature,	digestion	or	other	factors.
Direct	calorimetry:
	A	direct	measure	of	heat	transfer	to	determine	energy
expenditure.
Disordered	eating:
	Eating	behaviours	that	are	not	healthy	or	normal,	including
restrained	eating,	binge	eating,	fasting,	heavy	exercise,	using	excessive
laxatives	or	purging.
Diuresis:
	Increased	or	excessive	production	of	urine.

Diurnal:
	The	24-hour	period	or	daily	cycle,	such	as	being	active	during	the	day
and	resting	at	night.
Docosahexaenoic	acid:
	A	long-chain	n-3	fatty	acid	with	22–	carbons	and	six
double	bonds,	found	in	fatty	fish	and	breast	milk.
Ectopic	fat	depots:
	Excess	adipose	tissue	in	locations	not	usually	associated
with	adipose	tissue	storage,	such	as	in	the	liver	or	around	the	heart.
Electrolytes:
	Salts	that	dissolve	in	water	and	disassociate	into	charged	particles
called	ions.
Electron:
	Negatively	charged	subatomic	particles.
Electron	transport	chain:
	Electrons	are	passed	through	a	series	of	proteins	and
molecules	in	the	mitochondria	to	generate	large	amounts	of	ATP.
Emulsification	of	fat:
	Involves	formation	of	smaller	fat	droplets	suspended	in
the	aqueous	digestive	juices.	This	process	increases	the	surface	area	of	fat	for
more	efficient	digestion.
Endocrine:
	Hormonal.
Endogenous:
	Substances	that	originate	or	derive	from	within	the	body,	in	this
case	from	body	stores.
Endogenous	carbohydrate	fuels:
	Carbohydrate	fuel	found	inside	the	muscle
cell	(glycogen).
Enterocytes:
	Cells	lining	the	intestine	that	are	highly	specialised	for	digestion
and	absorption.
Enzymes:
	Proteins	that	start	or	speed	up	a	chemical	reaction	while	undergoing
no	permanent	change	to	their	structure.	Enzymes	perform	this	function	by
lowering	the	minimum	energy	required	(activation	energy)	to	start	a	chemical
reaction.	Enzymes	are	involved	in	most	biochemical	reactions;	without	them,
most	organisms	could	not	survive.
Epidemiological	studies:
	Studies	that	analyse	the	distribution	(who,	when	and
where)	and	determinants	of	health	and	disease	in	a	defined	population	by
observation.	Epidemiological	studies	include	ecological,	case-control,	cross-
sectional	and	retrospective	or	prospective	longitudinal	cohorts	study	designs.
Epithelial	barrier:
	Surface	cells	lining	the	gastrointestinal	tract.
Ergogenic:
	Enhancing	physical	performance.
Ergogenic	aid
:	Any	substance	or	aid	that	improves	physical	performance.
Euhydrated:
	Normal	state	of	body	water	content.
Evaporation:
	Sweat	from	the	surface	of	the	skin	accounts	for	the	majority	of
heat	transfer	during	exercise.	The	rate	of	sweating	can	increase	significantly
during	exercise	to	increase	the	amount	of	evaporation	and,	therefore,	the
amount	of	heat	transferred	from	the	body.
Excess	post-exercise	oxygen	consumption:
	An	increased	rate	of	oxygen

consumption	following	high-intensity	activity.
Exercise:
	Physical	activity	that	is	planned,	structured,	repetitive	and	purposeful
with	the	aim	to	improve	or	maintain	one	or	more	components	of	physical
fitness.
Exercise-associated	hyponatraemia
:	Also	called	low	blood	sodium,	and
defined	as	‘hyponatraemia	occurring	during	or	up	to	24	h	after	physical
activity.	It	is	defined	by	a	serum,	plasma	or	blood	sodium	concentration
([Na+])	below	the	normal	reference	range	of	the	laboratory	performing	the
test.	For	most	laboratories,	this	is	a	[Na+]	less	than	135	mmol/L’.
Exercise-associated	gastrointestinal	syndrome:
	Describes	the	physiological
responses	that	occur	due	to	exercise,	which	may	compromise	gastrointestinal
system	function	and	gastrointestinal	barrier	integrity	and	trigger	adverse
symptoms.
Exercise-induced	gastrointestinal	syndrome
:	A	term	used	to	describe
disruption	to	the	structure	and	function	of	the	gastrointestinal	tract	during
exercise.	This	can	result	in	gastrointestinal	symptoms	during	exercise.
Physical	damage	can	also	occur	to	the	gut	lining,	allowing	movement	of
bacteria	and	their	by-products	from	the	gut	into	the	bloodstream.	This	causes
a	significant	response	from	the	immune	system,	which	can	further	raise	core
body	temperature,	increasing	the	risk	of	exertional	heat	stroke.
Exertional	heat	stroke:
	An	elevated	core	temperature	associated	with	signs	of
organ	system	failure	due	to	overheating.
Exogenous:
	Substances	that	come	from	outside	of	the	body,	in	this	case	from
food.
Exogenous	carbohydrate	fuels:
	Carbohydrate	fuel	taken	up	into	the	muscle
from	the	circulation	(blood	glucose,	which	is	greatly	supplemented	by	the
intake	of	carbohydrate	during	exercise).
Explosive:
	Requiring	a	maximum	or	near	maximum	power	output	from	the
athlete	in	a	short	amount	of	time.
Extracellular	water:
	Water	that	is	outside	the	cells,	including	the	water
between	the	cells	and	the	plasma.
Fat	soluble
:	Compounds	that	can	be	dissolved	in	lipids	(fats	or	oils)	and	are
found	in	the	lipids	of	the	body	(or	food).	Fat-soluble	vitamins	are	stored	in	the
body.
Free	radicals:
	Also	referred	to	as	reactive	oxygen	species,	free	radicals	are
highly	reactive	chemical	species	that	can	damage	cellular	components,
resulting	in	cell	injury	or	death.	They	are	usually	produced	by	oxidation	and
contain	an	unpaired	electron.
Gastric	pits:
	Specialised	cells	in	the	gastric	glands	that	secrete	gastric	juices.

Gastrointestinal	bleeding:
	Bleeding	that	occurs	from	any	part	of	the
gastrointestinal	tract,	but	typically	from	the	small	intestine,	large	intestine,
rectum	or	anus.	Gastrointestinal	bleeding	is	not	a	disease,	but	is	a	symptom	of
many	diseases.	For	athletes,	bleeding	may	occur	due	to	sloughing	of	intestinal
lining	as	a	result	of	the	continual	jarring	that	occurs	when	running	on	hard
surfaces.
Glycocalyx:
	A	protective	mucus	on	the	epithelial	cells	that	is	weakly	acidic	and
consists	of	mucopolysaccharides.
Glycolysis:
	The	breakdown	of	glucose	to	form	two	molecules	of	ATP.
Gut	microbiota:
	Microbe	population	living	in	the	large	intestine.
Haemoglobin:
	The	protein	unit	in	the	red	blood	cell	that	carries	oxygen.
Haemolysis:
	The	rupture	of	red	blood	cells.
Heat	acclimatisation:
	The	process	of	adaptation	by	living	and	training	in	a
naturally	hot	environment.
Heat	acclimation:
	The	process	of	adaptation	from	completing	specific	training
sessions	in	artificially	induced	heat,	such	as	a	climate	chamber	or	heated
room.
Homeostasis:
	Processes	used	by	living	organisms	to	maintain	steady	conditions
needed	for	survival.
Hydrochloric	acid	(HCl):
	An	acid	composed	of	hydrogen	and	chloride	atoms
that	is	produced	by	the	gastric	glands.	HCl	activates	pepsinogen	into	the
enzyme	pepsin,	which	then	aids	digestion	by	breaking	the	bonds	between
amino	acids.
Hydrolysis:
	The	breakdown	of	a	compound	by	chemical	reaction	with	water.
Hydrolytic	reaction:
	When	the	addition	of	water	to	another	compound	leads	to
the	formation	of	two	or	more	products;	for	example,	the	catalytic	conversion
of	starch	to	sugar.
Hyperglycaemia:
	Elevated	blood	glucose	levels.
Hypertonic:
	Having	a	higher	concentration	than	a	particular	fluid—in	this	case,
higher	than	body	fluid	or	intracellular	fluid.
Hypertrophy:
	An	increase	in	skeletal	muscle	size	through	growth	in	size	of	its
cells.
Hypoglycaemia:
	Low	blood	glucose	levels.
Hypohydration:
	Dehydration	of	the	body.
Hyponatraemia:
	Low	blood	sodium	levels.
Hypoxia:
	Deficiency	in	the	amount	of	oxygen	reaching	the	tissues.
Ileocecal	valve:
	The	sphincter	that	separates	the	small	and	large	intestine.
Indirect	calorimetry:
	A	method	of	estimating	energy	expenditure	by	measuring
oxygen	consumption	and	carbohydrate	production.

Intrinsic	factor:
	A	glycoprotein	produced	in	the	gastric	pits	that	binds	with
vitamin	B12	to	help	in	the	absorption	of	vitamin	B12.
Intermuscular	adipose	tissue:
	Adipose	tissue	located	within	the	skeletal
muscle.
Intervention	studies:
	Studies	in	which	researchers	make	changes	to	observe	the
effect	on	health	outcomes;	in	nutrition,	this	will	include	changes	to	diet.
Iron	deficiency	anaemia
:	Depletion	of	iron	levels	in	the	blood	that	leads	to	low
levels	of	haemoglobin	and	small	pale	red	blood	cells,	which	limits	their
capacity	to	carry	oxygen.
Isoenergetic:
	Containing	the	same	number	of	calories/kilojoules.
Isotope:
	Atoms	that	have	the	same	number	of	protons	and	electrons	but	a
different	number	of	neutrons.
Jet	lag:
	A	physiological	condition	experienced	when	circadian	processes	do	not
correspond	with	the	new	external	environment.
Joules:
	A	unit	of	energy	equal	to	the	amount	of	work	done	by	a	force	of	1
Newton	to	move	an	object	1	metre.
Kilocalories:
	A	unit	of	energy	equal	to	1000	calories.	A	calorie	is	the	energy
required	to	increase	the	temperature	of	1	gram	of	water	by	1°C.
Kilojoules:
	A	unit	of	energy	equal	to	1000	joules.	A	joule	is	a	unit	of	energy
equal	to	the	amount	of	work	done	by	a	force	of	1	Newton	(the	force	required
to	accelerate	1	kilogram	of	mass	at	the	rate	of	1	metre	per	second	squared	in
the	direction	of	the	applied	force)	to	move	an	object	1	metre.
Kinetic	energy:
	Energy	due	to	motion.
Krebs	cycle:
	A	series	of	biochemical	reactions	that	generate	energy	from	the
breakdown	of	pyruvate	(the	end-product	of	glycolysis).
Lactate	shuttling:
	Lactate	produced	at	sites	of	high	glycolysis	can	be	shuttled
(moved)	to	other	muscles	where	it	can	be	used	as	an	energy	source.
Lactic	acid:
	A	by-product	of	anaerobic	glycolysis	that	contributes	to	fatigue	of
the	muscle.
Lactose	intolerance
:	A	condition	that	leads	to	the	inability	to	digest	lactose
which	results	in	bloating,	abdominal	discomfort,	gas	and	diarrhoea.
Leucine:
	An	essential	amino	acid,	which	is	required	for	muscle	protein
synthesis.
Lingual	lipase:
	An	enzyme	secreted	by	the	tongue	that	breaks	down
triglycerides,	a	type	of	fat.
Lipoprotein:
	A	cluster	of	lipids	attached	to	proteins	that	act	as	transport
vehicles	for	the	lipids	in	the	blood.	They	are	divided	according	to	their
density.
Low-residue	diet:
	Diet	limiting	higher-fibre	foods.

Macrocycle:
	Refers	to	the	overall	training	period,	usually	representing	a	year.
Macromolecules
:	Proteins	(polypeptides),	digestible	carbohydrates	and	fats
(triglycerides)	digested	by	humans.
Maximal	exercise:
	Exercise	performed	at	an	intensity	equal	to	an	individual’s
maximum	capacity	for	the	desired	activity.
Maximally	exhaustive:
	Exercise	that	requires	the	participant	to	work	at	their
maximal	capacity	until	exhaustion.
Maximum	aerobic	power	(
	O
2max
):
	The	maximum	amount	of	oxygen	an
individual	can	take	up	per	minute	during	dynamic	exercise	using	large	muscle
groups.
Metabolic	acidosis:
	A	decrease	in	blood	pH	below	the	body’s	normal	pH	of
~7.37–7.42.
Metabolic	equivalents:
	Measures	of	energy	expenditure	typically	used	to
describe	the	energy	expended	in	physical	activity.	The	standard	resting
metabolic	rate	is	1	MET,	and	is	equivalent	to	1.0	kcal/kg/hour,	or	4.18
kJ/kg/hour.
Metabolism:
	Chemical	processes	that	occur	within	a	living	organism	to
maintain	life.
Morphological	prediction:
	The	prediction	of	the	adult	body	shape	from	a
growing	child	or	adolescent.
Morphological	prototype:
	The	best	body	shape	and	distribution	of	soft	tissue	to
maximise	performance	in	a	given	sport.
Morphology:
	The	body	shape.
Motor	unit:
	A	motor	neuron	(nerve	cell)	and	the	skeletal	muscle	fibres	that	it
innervates	(services).
Neural:
	Relating	to	a	nerve	or	the	nervous	system.
Neurological:
	Pertaining	to	the	function	of	the	nervous	system	in	a	healthy
person.
Non-coeliac	gluten/wheat	sensitivity:
	A	condition	characterised	by	adverse
gastrointestinal	and/or	extra-intestinal	symptoms	associated	with	the	ingestion
of	gluten-or	wheat-containing	foods,	in	the	absence	of	coeliac	disease	or
wheat	allergy.
Norepinephrine	(or	noradrenaline):
	A	neurotransmitter	that	binds	to	α-
adrenoreceptors	of	the	sympathetic	nervous	system.	It	has	effects	such	as
constricting	blood	vessels,	raising	blood	pressure	and	dilating	bronchi,
reducing	blood	flow	to	internal	organs	and	increasing	blood	flow	to	the
working	muscles.
Nutrient-poor:
	A	food	or	meal	that	has	low	content	of	nutrients	relative	to

energy	content.
Neuroendocrine
:	Relating	to	interactions	between	the	neural	and	endocrine
system,	particularly	relating	to	hormones.
Newton	metres:
	A	unit	of	torque.
Organoleptic:
	The	aspect	of	substances,	in	this	case	food	and	drink,	that	an
individual	experiences	via	the	senses	of	taste,	texture,	smell	and	touch.
Osmotic	effect:
	The	movement	of	water	molecules	from	a	higher	water
potential	to	a	more	negative	water	potential.
Osteoarthritis:
	A	degenerative	condition	of	the	joints	that	occurs	when	the
cartilage	in	the	joint	degenerates,	which	leads	to	loss	of	function.
Oxidation:
	Part	of	a	chemical	reaction	that	results	in	the	loss	of	electrons.
During	fat	oxidation,	triglycerides	are	broken	down	into	three	fatty	acid
chains	and	glycerol.
Oxidative	stress:
	Occurs	when	the	body’s	production	of	free	radicals	occurs	at	a
rate	higher	than	the	body’s	ability	to	neutralise	them.
Oxygen	reserve	(%
O
2
R
):
	The	difference	between	resting	oxygen
consumption	and	maximal	oxygen	consumption.
Pack	mentality:
	For	team	sport	athletes,	a	pack	mentality	occurs	when
individual	athletes	within	the	team	act	in	a	similar	manner	to	others	in	the
group.
Pathogenesis:
	The	biological	mechanism	that	leads	to	the	development	of
diseases.
Pathology:
	A	field	in	medicine	which	studies	the	causes	of	diseases.
Pepsinogen:
	Part	of	the	zymogen	enzyme	family.	These	enzymes	digest	proteins
and	polypeptides	(smaller	proteins)	in	the	body	and	are	secreted	in	an	inactive
form	to	protect	the	digestive	and	accessory	organ	tissues	themselves	from
being	broken	down.	The	enzymes	can	be	activated	by	hydrochloric	acid	and
other	activated	zymogens.	The	‘inactive’	feature	of	these	enzymes	is	very
important	to	protect	digestive	and	accessory	organ	tissues	themselves	from
being	broken	down,	as	they	are	all	made	up	of	proteins.
Per	cent	heart	rate	reserve	(%HRR):
	Heart	rate	reserve	multiplied	by	the
desired	percentage	of	exercise	intensity.
Periodisation:
	The	timing	of	exercise	bouts	to	ensure	sufficient	exercise
stimulus	and	recovery	is	provided	to	elicit	the	greatest	response	and
adaptation.
Peristalsis
:	The	wave-like	contractions	of	the	longitudinal	muscles	of	the
digestive	tract	that	propels	food	forward.
Personalised	nutrition	advice:
	Specific	and	individualised	advice	for	each

athlete	based	on	their	own	personal	situation	including	playing	position,	body
composition,	culture,	taste	preferences	and	past	experiences.
Physical	activity:
	Any	bodily	movement	produced	by	skeletal	muscles	that
results	in	energy	expenditure.
Physiological:
	Pertaining	to	the	functions	of	the	body’s	systems	in	a	healthy
person.
Physiological	conditions:
	The	natural	internal	and/or	external	environmental
conditions	within	which	the	body’s	physiological	systems	operate.
Placebo	effect:
	When	an	individual	experiences	or	perceives	a	benefit	from	a
supplement	due	to	the	belief	that	it	will	be	beneficial	rather	than	any	direct
physiological	effect.
Plyometric	exercises:
	Exercises	in	which	muscles	exert	maximum	force	in	short
intervals	of	time,	with	the	goal	of	increasing	power—for	example,	jump
training.
Polyphenols:
	A	group	of	over	500	compounds	that	are	found	in	plants.	They	are
important	as	they	provide	protection	against	disease.
Potential	energy:
	Stored	energy	resulting	from	the	relative	position	within	a
physical	system.
Prebiotics:
	Food	components	that	are	not	digested	in	the	gastrointestinal	system
but	are	used	by	the	bacteria	in	the	colon	to	promote	their	growth.
Progressive	overload:
	The	continued	incremental	increase	in	training	demand
(duration	or	intensity)	required	to	elicit	an	adaptive	response.
Protocol:
	The	official	procedure	or	set	of	rules	or	methods	that	need	to	be
followed.
Proton:
	A	positively	charged	subatomic	particle	with	a	positive	electric	charge.
Pulmonary	ventilation:
	The	product	of	an	individual’s	breathing	frequency	(the
amount	of	breaths	per	minute)	and	tidal	volume	(the	volume	of	gas	inhaled
per	minute).
Pyruvate	dehydrogenase	(PDH)
:	Mitochondrial	enzyme	complex	that	commits
the	breakdown	products	of	glycolysis	(the	first	step	in	glucose	metabolism)
into	the	citric	acid	(Krebs	cycle)	oxidation	pathway.	This	step	is	irreversible
and	is	the	rate	limiting	step	in	carbohydrate	oxidation.
Radiation:
	The	transfer	of	heat	through	any	medium,	without	contact,	using
thermal	or	infrared	radiation.
RED-S:
	Relative	energy	deficiency	in	sport,	a	syndrome	of	impaired
physiological	function	caused	by	relative	energy	deficiency.
Relative	exercise	intensity:
	Refers	to	exercise	intensity	that	is	expressed
relative	to	an	individual’s	maximal	capacity	for	a	given	task	or	activity.
Resistance	exercise:
	Exercise	that	predominantly	involves	the	musculoskeletal

system.
Respiratory	exchange	ratio:
	The	ratio	of	carbon	dioxide	produced	to	oxygen
consumed;	used	to	indicate	the	relative	contribution	of	substrates	oxidised
during	submaximal	exercise.
Rugae:
	The	folds	of	the	stomach	that	occur	when	the	stomach	is	empty.
Salivary	amylase	(or
	α	
amylase):
	An	enzyme	in	the	saliva	that	breaks	down
amylose,	a	type	of	carbohydrate.
Satiety:
	The	feeling	of	fullness	and	satisfaction	after	consuming	food	which
inhibits	the	need	to	eat.
Segmentation
:	The	contraction	of	the	circular	muscles	of	the	digestive	tract	that
leads	to	mixing	and	breaking	up	of	food.
Sleep–wake	cycle:
	Also	known	as	circadian	rhythm,	a	daily	pattern	that
determines	when	it	is	time	to	sleep	and	when	it	is	time	to	be	awake.
Sliding	filament	theory:
	A	theory	explaining	the	mechanism	of	skeletal	muscle
actions	whereby	muscle	proteins	(myofilaments)	slide	past	each	other	to
produce	movement.
Somatotype:
	Classification	of	the	human	physical	shape	according	to	the	body
build	or	shape.
Sphincters
:	Muscular	rings	that	open	or	close	to	control	passage	of	food	along
the	digestive	tract.
Splanchnic	hypoperfusion:
	Splanchnic	circulation	refers	to	blood	flow	through
the	stomach,	small	intestine,	colon,	pancreas,	liver	and	spleen.	Hypoperfusion
refers	to	
low
	or	
decreased
	flow	of	fluid	through	the	circulatory	system.
During	exercise,	blood	flow	to	the	splanchnic	area	(gastrointestinal	organs)	is
decreased	and	instead	shunted	to	working	muscles.
Sports	anaemia
:	Also	referred	to	as	dilutional	anaemia	or	pseudo-anaemia,
occurs	when	haemoglobin	concentration	is	‘diluted’	due	to	increased	volume
of	the	plasma	(the	liquid	component	of	blood).	Plasma	volume	generally
increases	in	response	to	exercise;	therefore,	this	‘anaemia’	is	transient	and
often	fluctuates	with	training	loads.	Unlike	the	other	anaemias	described	in
this	chapter,	sports	anaemia	does	not	impair	athletic	performance	or	respond
to	nutritional	changes.
Steady-state	exercise:
	Exercise	performed	at	an	intensity	whereby	the	body’s
physiological	systems	are	maintained	at	a	relatively	constant	value.
Stop-start	sports:
	Sports	in	which	the	play	is	frequently	stopped	due	to	the	ball
going	out	of	play	or	the	referee	stopping	play	because	of	violations	of	the
rules.	This	includes	sports	like	basketball	and	football.
Subconcussive:
	A	hit	to	the	head	that	does	not	meet	the	clinical	criteria	for
concussion,	but	is	hypothesised	to	have	long-term	adverse	effects.

Subcutaneous	adipose	tissue
:	Adipose	tissue	directly	under	the	skin.
Submaximal	exercise:
	Exercise	performed	at	an	intensity	below	an	individual’s
maximum	capacity	for	the	desired	activity.
Substrate:
	The	substance,	in	this	case	the	components	of	food,	on	which
enzymes	work.
Sugar	alcohols
:	Carbohydrates	that	have	been	chemically	altered.	They	provide
fewer	kilojoules	as	they	are	not	well	absorbed	and	may	have	a	laxative	effect.
They	include	sorbitol,	mannitol	and	xylitol.	While	they	have	fewer	kilojoules
they	can	still	lead	to	elevation	in	blood	glucose	levels	and,	hence,	can	have	an
impact	on	blood	glucose	control	in	people	with	diabetes;	as	such	they	need	to
be	considered	in	the	diet.
Sympathetic	nervous	system:
	Often	termed	the	fight	or	flight	response.	It
accelerates	heart	rate,	dilates	bronchial	passages,	decreases	motility	of	the
digestive	tract,	constricts	blood	vessels,	increases	sweating.
Synthesise:
	To	form	a	substance	by	combining	elements.
Tendinopathies:
	Diseases	of	the	tendons,	which	may	arise	from	a	range	of
internal	and	external	factors.
Thermoregulation:
	The	maintenance	of	the	body	at	a	particular	temperature
regardless	of	the	external	temperature.
Total	body	water:
	The	total	sum	of	water	in	the	body.	It	is	the	sum	of	water
within	the	cells	(intracellular)	and	outside	the	cells	(extracellular).
Trachea:
	The	tube	leading	to	the	lungs,	more	commonly	known	as	the
windpipe.
Training	low:
	Training	with	low	carbohydrate	availability	in	the	body.
Trans	form
:	In	a	molecule,	the	C	atoms	that	have	double	bonds	and	the	H	atoms
are	on	opposite	sides.
Transferrin:
	An	iron	transport	protein	in	the	blood.
Transit	time:
	Duration	of	content	movement	through	the	colon.	This	can	be
affected	by	factors	such	as	illness,	infection	and	type	and	intensity	of
exercise.	When	transit	time	is	accelerated	there	is	not	enough	time	for	water
and	other	macro-and	micronutrients	to	be	absorbed,	resulting	in	their	loss	in
stools.
Triglycerides:
	The	main	type	of	fat	in	our	bodies	and	our	diets.	They	are	made
up	of	a	glycerol	backbone	with	three	fatty	acids	attached.
Villi:
	Cells	that	form	finger-like	projections	from	the	intestinal	lumen	and	have
microvilli	protruding	from	them.	This	greatly	increases	the	absorption	surface
of	the	intestine.
Visceral	adipose	tissue:
	The	adipose	tissue	within	the	abdominal	cavity,	which
is	wrapped	around	the	organs.

Visceral	hypersensitivity:
	Heightened	sensation	of	pain	in	the	internal	organs.
Vitamin	B12:
	An	essential	vitamin	found	in	milk,	eggs	and	meat.	The	active
forms	of	this	vitamin	are	methylcobalamin	and	deoxyadenosylcobalamin.
Water	soluble
:	Compounds	that	can	be	dissolved	in	water	and	are	found	in	the
aqueous	parts	of	the	body	(or	food).	Water-soluble	vitamins	are	not	stored	in
the	body;	they	are	excreted	in	the	urine.
Weight-making:
	Any	behaviour	used	to	quickly	lose	weight	regardless	of	what
that	‘weight’	is	(water,	fat,	muscle)	before	a	competition	weigh-in.
Whey	protein	isolate:
	A	by-product	of	cheese	production,	which	contains	a
high	percentage	of	pure	protein	and	is	virtually	lactose-free,	carbohydrate-
free,	fat-free	and	cholesterol-free.
Window	of	opportunity:
	In	sports	nutrition	and	training	this	refers	to	the	1–2
hours	after	hard	exercise	in	which	the	muscle	is	primed	to	absorb	and	store
carbohydrate.
Wolff	’s	Law:
	Bone	in	a	healthy	person	will	adapt	to	the	loads	under	which	it	is
placed.	In	this	sense,	an	exercise	stimulus	results	in	bone	remodelling	that
makes	the	bone	stronger	to	resist	that	sort	of	loading.
Work	capacity:
	The	total	amount	of	work	a	person	can	sustain	over	a	defined
period	of	time.
Zeitgebers:
	External	or	environmental	cues	which	synchronises	our	biological
rhythms	to	the	Earth’s	24-hour	light–dark	cycle.