Nutritional 
Supplements in 
Sports and Exercise
Second Edition
Mike Greenwood
Matthew B. Cooke
Tim Ziegenfuss
Douglas S. Kalman
Jose Antonio
Editors
123

  Nutritional Supplements in Sports 
and Exercise 

     

       Mike   Greenwood         Matthew   B. Cooke    
   Tim   Ziegenfuss         Douglas   S.   Kalman    
     Jose   Antonio     
 Editors 
 Nutritional Supplements 
in Sports and Exercise
Second Edition                       

     ISBN 978-3-319-18229-2      ISBN 978-3-319-18230-8 (eBook) 
 DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8 
 Library of Congress Control Number: 2015943310 
 Springer Cham Heidelberg New York Dordrecht London 
 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland   2015 
 This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved by the Publisher, whether the whole or 
part of the material is concerned, speciﬁ  cally the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of 
illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microﬁ  lms or in any other physical way, 
and transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, 
or by similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed. 
 The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this 
publication does not imply, even in the absence of a speciﬁ  c statement, that such names are 
exempt from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use. 
 The publisher, the authors and the editors are safe to assume that the advice and information in 
this book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor 
the authors or the editors give a warranty, express or implied, with respect to the material 
contained herein or for any errors or omissions that may have been made. 
 Printed on acid-free paper 
      Springer International Publishing AG Switzerland is part of Springer Science+Business Media 
(www.springer.com )  Editors 
   Mike   Greenwood, PhD, FISSN, FNSCA, 
FACSM, RSCC *D, CSCS *D   
  Exercise Sport Nutrition Laboratory
Department of Health & Kinesiology 
 Texas A & M University 
  College Station ,  TX ,  USA   
   Tim   Ziegenfuss, PhD, FISSN, CSCS   
  The Center For Applied Health Sciences 
(CAHS) 
  Stow ,  OH ,  USA   
   Jose   Antonio, PhD, FISSN, FACSM, 
CSCS   
  Exercise & Sport Science Laboratory 
 Nova Southeastern University 
  Fort Lauderdale-Davie ,  FL ,  USA      Matthew   B. Cooke, BSc (Hons), PhD   
  Biomedical and Lifestyle Diseases 
(BioLED) Unit 
 Institute of Sport, Exercise & Active 
Living
College of Health and Biomedicine
Victoria University 
  Melbourne ,  VIC ,  Australia   
   Douglas   S.   Kalman, PhD, RD, CCRC, 
FISSN, FACN   
  Nutrition & Applied Clinical Trials 
 QPS-MRA (Miami Research) & 
Athletics Department
Florida International University 
  Miami ,  FL ,  USA   

v Over the past two decades, the area of sport nutrition and nutritional supple-
mentation has escalated in monumental proportions. An enormous number of 
qualiﬁ  ed professionals—sport nutritionists, athletic coaches, athletic trainers, 
sports medicine personal, strength and conditioning coaches, personal train-
ers, medical representatives, and health practitioners, among others—as well 
as a variety of athletic and exercise participants have searched for viable 
dietary ergogenic aids to attain optimal training and performance levels. 
A multitude of universities have infused relevant sport nutrition courses, aca-
demic majors, and critical research agendas into their curriculums to further 
investigate this popular and dynamic aspect of our society. Professional orga-
nizations such as The International Society of Sport Nutrition have evolved to 
take a scientiﬁ  cally based approach to help further understand the annual 
billion dollar industry. What an extraordinary challenge this undertaking has 
been due to the multitude of nutritional supplements that are currently on the 
market and the plethora of these products that surface on a regular basis. 
 The editors and the authors noted in this textbook ﬁ  rmly believe that the 
public has the right to know the truth regarding nutritional supplement 
inges tion—health, safety, efﬁ  cacy—and quality-based scientiﬁ  c research is 
the accepted approach supported by those contributing to this published 
endeavor. However, it should be noted that even highly acclaimed researchers 
are not always in agreement regarding speciﬁ  c scientiﬁ  c ﬁ ndings, but such is 
the nature of research in any realm. Based on this reality, there is a critical 
need for professionals to bridge the gap between scientiﬁ  c results and com-
mon sense approaches related to practical sports and exercise nutritional 
supplement strategies. 
 A major purpose of this book is to provide detailed analysis of nutritional 
supplementation supported by, whenever possible, replicated scientiﬁ  c 
research regarding sports and exercise performance. Previous chapters have 
been fully revised and new chapters have been added to cover important cut-
ting edge topics. New chapters include: (1) Carbohydrate Utilization and 
Disposal in Strength/Power Training & Sports, (2) Exercise for Athletes with 
Diabetes, and (3) Beyond the Obvious: Future Innovations in Sports Nutrition. 
Additionally, the book is divided into four parts to accomplish this goal. Part 
I delves into the industrial component as well as the psychological nature of 
the consumer-based nutritional supplement game. In Part II, strong emphasis 
is placed on nutrient-dense food/ﬂ  uid ingestion basics. Part III provides infor-  Pref ace   

vi
mation reg arding specialized nutritional supplements and strategies for unique 
athletic populations, and Part IV addresses the present and future status of 
nutritional supplements in sports and exercise environments. This book pro-
vides the readers with a viable up-to- date reference guide, keeping in mind 
publication time frames often limit the inclusion of current research out-
comes. We have attempted to include relevant nutritional supplement infor-
mation that is timely and useful in an ever-evolving industry.  
  College Station, TX     Mike     Greenwood, PhD, FISSN, FNSCA, FACSM, 
 RSCC *D, CSCS *D   
 Melbourne, VIC     Matthew     B. Cooke, BSc (Hons), PhD   
 Stow, OH      Tim     N.     Ziegenfuss, PhD, FISSN, CSCS   
 Miami, FL     Douglas     S.     Kalman, PhD, RD, CCRC, FISSN, FACN   
 Fort Lauderdale-Davie, FL     Jose     Antonio, PhD, FISSN, FACSM, CSCS    Preface

vii   Part I The Industrial Nature of the Supplement Game   
    1     Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution 
of Sports Nutrition  ........................................................................  3   
    Rick   Collins     and     Douglas   S. Kalman    
     2     The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport 
and Exercise: Motivational Antecedents 
and Biobehavioral Outcomes  .......................................................  23   
    Shawn   M.   Arent     and     Rafer   S.   Lutz     
   Part II Nutritional Basics First   
    3     The Role of Nutritional Supplements 
Complementing Nutrient-Dense Diets: General 
Versus Sport/Exercise-Specific Dietary Guidelines 
Related to Energy Expenditure  ...................................................  51   
    Susan   M. Kleiner     and     Mike   Greenwood    
     4     Macronutrient Intake for Physical Activity  ................................  63   
    Elfego   Galvan    
     5     Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport  ..............  77   
    Monica   C.   Serra     and     Kristen   M.   Beavers    
     6     Fluid Balance and Hydration for Human Performance ............  105   
    Neil   M.   Johannsen     and     Conrad   P.   Earnest     
   Part III Specialized Nutritional Strategies & Supplements   
    7     Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, 
and Supplementation  ....................................................................  123   
    Kyle   Levers     and     Kelley   Vargo    
     8     Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements  ........................................  159   
    Joan   M.   Eckerson    
     9     Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations  .......................  187   
    Matthew   B.   Cooke     and     Paul   J.   Cribb      Contents 

viii
     10     Nutritional Supplements for Strength 
and Power Athletes ........................................................................  223   
    Colin   Wilborn    
     11     Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes  ......................  253   
    Conrad   P.   Earnest     and     Christopher   Rasmussen    
     12     Nutritional Supplements to Enhance Recovery  .........................  273   
    Tim   N.   Ziegenfuss    ,     Jamie   Landis    ,     Darryn   Willoughby    , 
and     Mike   Greenwood    
     13     Nutrient Timing  .............................................................................  303   
    Chad   M.   Kerksick     and     Nathan   H.   Cole    
     14     Carbohydrate Utilization and Disposal 
in Strength/Power Training and Sports: 
Examining the Underexamined  ...................................................  329   
    Anthony   L.   Almada     and     David   Barr    
     15     Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes  .............................................  343   
    Anupam   Ohri    ,     Stephen   H. Schneider    ,     Stephanie   Wilson    , 
and     Gabe   Wilson     
   Part IV  Present and Future Directions of Nutritional 
Supplements   
    16     Beyond the Obvious: Future Innovations 
in Sports Nutrition  ........................................................................  363   
    Anthony   L.   Almada     
   Index  .......................................................................................................  375    Contents

ix        Mike     Greenwood  , PhD, FISSN, FNSCA, 
FACSM, RSCC *D, CSCS *D  ,     is currently a 
Full C linical Professor in the Department of 
Health and Kinesiology at Texas A&M University. 
In addition to a variety of teaching and research 
responsibilities, Mike serves as a Research 
Associate for the Exercise and Sport Nutrition 
Laboratory located at Research Park in College 
Station. Over the past 30 years, Mike has served 
as a Departmental Graduate Director, Graduate 
Academic Director for Strength and Conditioning, 
Graduate Research Coordinator, as well as the 
Ph.D. Director primarily involved with the Institute for Exercise, Nutrition 
and Preventive Health. Mike is a Fellow of the International Society of Sport 
Nutrition (ISSN), National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA), 
and American College of Sport Medicine (ACSM). Dr. Greenwood is certi-
ﬁ ed as strength and conditioning specialist recognized with distinction by the 
NSCA and has previously served as a NCAA collegiate baseball/basketball 
coach as well as a collegiate strength training/conditioning professional. 
Mike is the NSCA Texas State Director and currently serves on the Advisory 
Board of ISSN and on the NSCA Certiﬁ  cation and Research Committees. His 
primary lines of research are in the areas of sport/exercise nutrition and 
strength and conditioning. Dr. Greenwood serves on the Editorial Boards of 
the Strength and Conditioning Journal, Journal of the International Society of 
Sports Nutrition, and has reviewed manuscripts for Medicine and Science in 
Sports and Exercise as well as The Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research. In 2003, Mike received the Educator of The Year Award from the 
National Strength and Conditioning Association and in 2005 honored as the 
Sunshine State Conference Baseball Coach of The Year.  About the Editors 


x
        Matthew     B.     Cooke  ,   BSc (Hons), PhD,     received 
his Bachelor of Science (Biomedical Sciences) 
with honors and his Ph.D. in Exercise Science 
from Victoria University in Australia. Dr. Cooke 
then completed a Post-Doctoral Fellowship and 
Assistant Professorship at Baylor University 
from 2006 to 2009. In 2010, Dr. Cooke com-
pleted a Post-Doctoral fellowship in Clinical 
Exercise Physiology in the School of Medicine 
at the University of Queensland. Dr. Cooke is 
currently a Senior Lecturer and Deputy leader of 
the Biomedical and Lifestyle Disease (BioLED) Unit within the College of 
Health and Biomedicine at Victoria University in Melbourne, Australia. His 
areas of research interests include: Resistance training and nutritional inter-
ventions on the physiological, biochemical, and molecular mechanisms regu-
lating skeletal muscle atrophy (sarcopenia) associated with aging. Nutritional 
supplementation and/or varied training regimes to manipulate muscle bioen-
ergetics in aged and diseased populations. Exercise training and nutritional 
interventions on weight loss, weight maintenance, and metabolism in aged 
and diseased populations.
           Tim     N.     Ziegenfuss  ,   PhD, FISSN, CSCS,       i s  
the Chief Executive Ofﬁ  cer of The Center for 
Applied Health Sciences. Dr. Ziegenfuss is a 
Past President and Fellow of the International 
Society of Sports Nutrition, a Certiﬁ  ed 
Strength and Conditioning Specialist, and a 
consultant to several professional sports teams 
in Europe (soccer) and the United States 
(American football). In addition to his out-
reach program with athletes, he is active in 
clinical/academic research (600 articles in 
mainstream magazines, 40 scientiﬁ  c papers, 5 
book chapters) and new product formulation with select sports nutrition 
companies.           
        Douglas     S.     Kalman  ,   PhD, RD, CCRC, FISSN, 
FACN,     is an Adjunct Professor in the Robert 
Stempel School of Public Health at Florida 
International University and a Director in the 
Nutrition and Endocrinology Research Lab at 
Miami Research Associates. He has been the 
Nutrition Program Consultant for IMG Academies 
in Bradenton, FL, and is currently the Sports 
Nutritionist for the Blackzilians (UFC) and for the 
Florida International University in Miami, Florida 
as well as being the Team Nutritionist for Coral 
About the Editors

xi
Springs Aquatic Center. He has been involved in over 300 clinical trials and 
projects within the pharmaceutical, medical, and nutrition ﬁ  elds. He has pub-
lished over 75 abstracts and more than 30 peer-reviewed manuscripts. He is a 
Cofounder of the International Society of Sports Nutrition and Coeditor of 
the Journal—JISSN (  www.jissn.com    ).
        Jose     Antonio  ,   PhD, FISSN, FACSM, CSCS,     is 
the CEO and cofounder of the  International Society 
of Sports Nutrition   (  www.theissn.org    ) and is a 
Fellow of the National Strength and Conditioning 
Association. He is an Assistant Professor at Nova 
Southeastern University in Exercise and Sports 
Science in Ft Lauderdale FL and an avid outrigger 
paddler. In his spare time, he writes a lot, gives an 
occasional seminar, and reads minds. Okay, the last 
one he can’t do. If you love sports nutrition, then 
you must go to an ISSN event. It’s where nerds can 
have fun and learn at the same time.
About the Editors

     

xiiiPart I. The Industrial Nature of the Supplement Game
Chapter 1: 
Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition
Rick Collins and Douglas S. Kalman
Rick Collins, ESQ, JD, FISSN,  is an interna-
tionally recognized legal authority in the ﬁ  eld of 
dietary supplements and performance-enhancing 
substances. His law ﬁ  rm, Collins, McDonald and 
Gann, represents numerous companies in the 
nutritional supplement industry. He is admitted 
to practice in the State courts of New York, 
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and Texas, in the 
courts of the District of Columbia, and in various 
federal courts. He serves as General Counsel to, 
and is a Fellow of, the International Society of 
Sports Nutrition and has contributed chapters to two textbooks on sports 
nutrition. A frequent contributor to various health and ﬁ  tness publications, he 
is a monthly columnist for the nationally circulated Muscular Development 
magazine and has served for years as a member of their Advisory Board. Rick 
is the ofﬁ  cial legal advisor to the International Federation of Body Builders 
(the IFBB, formed in 1946, currently has 173 afﬁ  liated National Federations 
and is recognized by over 90 National Olympic Committees). He has been 
interviewed as a legal authority in the ﬁ  lm “Bigger, Stronger, Faster*” (2008) 
and on national television talk and news shows, in talk radio interviews, and 
by countless online and print publications. A former Nassau County Assistant 
District Attorney, he has been awarded the prestigious Martindale-Hubbell 
“A V-rating” for his keen legal abilities and ethical standards (A V-rating), and 
he is listed in the Bar Register of Preeminent Lawyers. He is also a nationally 
Certiﬁ  ed Strength and Conditioning Specialist (NSCA-CSCS).  About the Contributors 


xiv
Douglas S. Kalman, PhD, RD, CCRC, FISSN, 
FACN , is an Adjunct Professor in the Robert 
Stempel Scho ol of Public Health at Florida 
International University and a Director in the 
Nutrition and Endocrinology Research Lab at 
Miami Research Associates. He has been the 
Nutrition Program Consultant for IMG Academies 
in Bradenton, FL, and is currently the Sports 
Nutritionist for the Blackzilians (UFC) and for the 
Florida International University in Miami, Florida 
as well as being the Team Nutritionist for Coral 
Springs Aquatic Center. He has been involved in over 300 clinical trials and 
projects within the pharmaceutical, medical, and nutrition ﬁ  elds. He has 
published over 75 abstracts and more than 30 peer-reviewed manuscripts. 
He is a Cofounder of the International Society of Sports Nutrition and 
Coeditor of the Journal—JISSN (  www.jissn.com    ).
Chapter 2: 
The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise: Motivational 
Antecedents and Biobehavioral Outcomes
Shawn M. Arent and Rafer S. Lutz
Shawn M. Arent, PhD, CSCS *D, FACSM, is an 
Associate Professor in the Department of Exercise 
Science at Rutgers University, where he is also the 
Director of the IFNH Center for Health and Human 
Performance. He is currently the Head Exercise 
Physiologist for the NJ Devils of the NHL. He com-
pleted both his M.S. and Ph.D. in Exercise Science 
at Arizona State University and received his B.A. 
from the University of Virginia. He is a Certiﬁ  ed 
Strength and Conditioning Specialist with the NSCA 
and a Fellow in ACSM. He is on the national staff 
for the US Soccer Federation and provides performance enhancement advice 
for a variety of athletes. His research focuses on the relationship between the 
stress response, health, and performance and has been funded by various 
sources including NIH, RWJF, and nutritional biotechnology companies.
Rafer S. Lutz, PhD, (Deceased) was an associate 
professor of sport and exercise psychology in the 
department of Health, Human Performance, and 
Recreation at Baylor University. A former winner 
(2001) of the Dissertation Award by the American 
Alliance for Health, Ph ysical Education, Recreation, 
and Dance’s Sport Psychology Academy, Dr. Lutz’s 
research focuses primarily on the psychology of 
exercise participation and related health psychology 
topics, though he has secondary interests in the 
study of sport performance enhancement. In his 
brief career, Dr. Lutz has published 22 papers, 13 as 
About the Contributors

xv
ﬁ rst or second author, in well-respected, peer-reviewed journals such as 
Behavioural Brain Research, Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology, 
American Journal of Health Behavior, and Psychology of Sport and 
Exercise. Additionally, Dr. Lutz has been the primary presenter or co-pre-
senter of over 45 presentations to national and international scientiﬁ  c soci-
eties such as North American Society for the Psychology of Sport and 
Physical Activity, American College of Sports Medicine, American 
Psychological Association, and American Psychological Society. A former 
Academic All-American golfer, Dr. Lutz has served as a performance 
enhancement consultant for a variety of business organizations, individual 
athletes, and athletic teams. 
Part II. Nutritional Basics First
Chapter 3: 
The Role of Nutritional Supplements Complementing Nutrient-Dense 
Diets: General Versus Sport/Exercise-Speciﬁ  c Dietary Guidelines 
Related to Energy Expenditure
Susan M. Kleiner and Mike Greenwood
Susan M. Kleiner, PhD, RD, CNS, FISSN, main-
tains one foot in the academic world and one foot in 
the business world. After her doctoral research on 
the Inﬂ  uence of Dietary Fats and Cholesterol, and 
Anabolic Steroids, on the Lipoprotein Proﬁ  les and 
Body Composition of Competitive Male 
Bodybuilders at Case Western Reserve University 
School of Medicine and The Cleveland Clinic 
Foundation Department of Sports Medicine, she 
continued to research and publish her seminal work 
on male and female bodybuilders. Dr. Kleiner has 
continued to research and publish in the ﬁ  eld of 
sports nutrition and supplements and has also established herself through 
research and publications as an expert in hydration and health. Dr. Kleiner 
has consulted with professional teams, including the Seattle Seahawks, 
Supersonics, and Storm, the Cleveland Browns and Cavaliers, the Miami 
Heat, Olympians and elite athletes in countless sports. Dr. Kleiner is the co-
CEO of Vynna, LLC, an evidence-based, female-centric sports nutrition com-
pany dedicated to the health, well-being and performance of athletic women 
and girls. She still maintains her 22-year ownership of High Performance 
Nutrition, LLC, her consulting ﬁ  rm in Mercer Island, Washington. She is a 
scientiﬁ  c advisor to numerous businesses in the industry and is the author of 
seven popular books, including POWER EATING®, Fourth Edition, The 
Oxygen Diet Solution, The Good Mood Diet®, and The POWERFOOD 
Nutrition Plan.
About the Contributors

xvi
Mike Greenwood, PhD, FISSN, FNSCA, 
FACSM, RSCC *D, CSCS *D, is currently a 
Full Clinical Professor in the Department of 
Health and Kinesiology at Texas A&M 
University. In addition to a variety of teaching 
and research responsibilities, Mike serves as a 
Research Associate for the Exercise and Sport 
Nutrition Laboratory located at Research Park in 
College Station. Over the past 30 years, Mike 
has served as a Departmental Graduate Director, 
Graduate Academic Director for Strength and 
Conditioning, Graduate Research Coordinator, as well as the Ph.D. Director 
primarily involved with the Institute for Exercise, Nutrition and Preventive 
Health. Mike is a Fellow of the International Society of Sport Nutrition 
(ISSN), National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA), and 
American College of Sport Medicine (ACSM). Dr. Greenwood is certiﬁ  ed as 
strength and conditioning specialist recognized with distinction by the NSCA 
and has previously served as a NCAA collegiate baseball/basketball coach as 
well as a collegiate strength training/conditioning professional. Mike is the 
NSCA Texas State Director and currently serves on the Advisory Board of 
ISSN and on the NSCA Certiﬁ  cation and Research Committees. His primary 
lines of research are in the areas of sport/exercise nutrition and strength and 
conditioning. Dr. Greenwood serves on the Editorial Boards of the Strength 
and Conditioning Journal, Journal of the International Society of Sports 
Nutrition, and has reviewed manuscripts for Medicine and Science in Sports 
and Exercise as well as The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. 
In 2003, Mike received the Educator of The Year Award from the National 
Strength and Conditioning Association and in 2005 honored as the Sunshine 
State Conference Baseball Coach of The Year.
Chapter 4:
Macronutrient Intake for Physical Activity
Elfego Galvan
Elfego Galvan, MS, RD, LD, CSCS, is currently 
a 4th year doctoral student in the Exercise and 
Sport Nutrition Lab in the Department of Health 
and Kinesiology at Texas A&M University. Elfego 
is a registered dietitian who completed his M.S. at 
the State University of New York at Buffalo and 
his undergraduate studies at Baylor University. 
His research interests lie in the area of nutrition 
and exercise intervention and the effect they have 
on mechanisms regulating skeletal muscle physi-
ology, weight loss, and human performance. If all 
goes as planned, Elfego plans to pursue a post-doctoral fellowship in the ﬁ  eld 
of muscle physiology
About the Contributors

xvii
Chapter 5:
Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport
Monica C. Serra and Kristen M. Beavers
Monica C. Serra, PhD, RD, ATC, is an Assistant 
Professor at the University of Maryland School of 
Medicine in the Division of Gerontology and 
Geriatric Medicine and a Supervisory Research 
Health Scientist at the Baltimore V A Medical 
Center in the Geriatric Research Education and 
Clinical Center. She received her BS from Duquesne 
University in Athletic Training; her MS in Nutrition 
from Case Western Reserve University; and her 
PhD from Baylor University in Exercise, Nutrition, 
and Preventative Health. She is a Registered 
Dietitian and Certiﬁ  ed Athletic Trainer. Her research focuses on the loss of 
functional independence and cardiovascular disease risk in older chronically 
disabled adults and the effects of nutritional and exercise rehabilitation in 
these populations.
Kristen M. Beavers, PhD, RD, is an Assistant 
Profe ssor in the Department of Health and Exercise 
Science at Wake Forest University with an adjunct 
appointment in the Section on Gerontology and 
Geriatric Medicine at Wake Forest School of 
Medicine. She received her BS from Cornell 
University in Human Biology, Health and Society; 
MPH from The University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill in Nutrition; and PhD from Baylor 
University in Exercise, Nutrition, and Preventive 
Health. She is a Re gistered Dietitian and certiﬁ  ed 
by the American College of Sports Medicine as a 
personal trainer. Dr. Beavers’ academic and professional interests lie in the 
study of nutrition and exercise as interdisciplinary sciences, speciﬁ  cally as 
they relate to prevention and etiology of chronic disease and disability. Her 
current research focuses on the identiﬁ  cation of optimal weight loss therapies 
for overweight and obese, older adults.
About the Contributors

xviii
Chapter 6:
Fluid Balance and Hydration for Human Performance
Neil M. Johannsen and Conrad P . Earnest
Neil M. Johannsen, PhD, is an Assistant Professor 
in the School of Kinesiology at Louisiana State 
University in Baton Rouge, LA. In addition, Dr. 
Johannsen is an Adjunct Assistant Professor at 
Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Baton 
Rouge. In 1998, he graduated from South Dakota 
State University with a Bachelor of Science in 
Chemistry. His graduate training was conducted at 
Iowa State University where he obtained a Ph.D. 
within the Department of Health and Human 
Performance in 2007 with a focus on the Biologic 
Basis of Exercise, in particular, exercise metabo-
lism and physiologic responses to ﬂ  uid intake during exercise. During his 
time at Iowa State University, he was awarded the Future Faculty Fellowship 
Award for demonstrating outstanding scholarship and promise for becoming 
a faculty member in higher education. His research focus at Pennington is the 
study of physical activity and exercise training effects on chronic disease and 
special populations and has played an integral role in more than 10 research 
studies involving populations ranging from young lean adults to older adults, 
overweight/obese people, individuals with type 2 diabetes, and women with 
a history of breast cancer. Recently, Dr. Johannsen was awarded the Robert 
and Patricia Hines Endowed Professorship at LSU and received the College 
of Human Sciences and Education Early Career Award and the LSU Alumni 
Association Rising Faculty Award.
Conrad P. Earnest, PhD, FACSM,  in Exercise 
Physiology, has published over 140 journal articles 
including notable journals such as JAMA, 
JAMAArchives, Lancet Oncology, Diabetes Care, 
and numerous sport/exercise related journals. Dr. 
Earnest takes an integrative approach to health, 
nutrition, and athletic performance by looking at 
various ways to bridge gaps between sport perfor-
mance and disease states. He is also one of the most 
frequently published authors examining profes-
sional cyclists competing in the Grand tours of 
Cycling (Tour de France, Giro d’Italia and Vuelta a Espana). Dr. Earnest is 
the current Director of Research for Nutrabolt International which holds a 
parttime graduate faculty appointment at Texas A&M University and was 
formerly a professor at The University of Bath, and associate professor at 
Pennington Biomedical, and VP of Research at The Cooper Institute.
About the Contributors

xix
Part III. Specialized Nutritional Strategies & Supplements
Chapter 7: 
Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation
Kyle Levers and Kelley Vargo
Kyle Levers, PhD, CSCS, is currently an Exercise 
Physiology Doctoral Research Assistant in the 
Exercise and Sport Nutrition Laboratory as part of 
the Department of Health and Kinesiology at Texas 
A&M University. Mr. Levers received his B.A. in 
both Exercise Science and Chemistry from 
McDaniel College and his M.S. in Exercise Science 
with a concentration in Strength and Conditioning 
from George Washington University. He is a 
Certiﬁ  ed Strength and Conditioning Specialist 
(CSCS) through the National Strength and 
Conditioning Association (NSCA) and continues to 
consult as a sports performance coach. His current research focuses on the 
effects of recovery modalities and supplementation interventions on the phys-
iological adaptations and biochemical mechanisms regulating skeletal mus-
cle protein degra dation and hypertrophy, blood ﬂ  ow, inﬂ  ammation, soreness, 
and performance in subsequent bouts of exercise. His other research interests 
include effects of proper performance and recovery supplementation on hydra-
tion and electrolyte status in addition to skeletal muscle hypertrophy in power, 
sprint, endurance, and concurrent training athletes. Additionally, Mr. Levers is 
focused on analyzing the physiological, biomechanical, and biochemical 
effects of active and under-loaded recovery, in addition to water temperature 
and subfreezing temperatures on markers of muscle damage, muscle hypertro-
phy, blood ﬂ  ow, and performance in subsequent bouts of exercise.
Kelley Vargo, MS, MPH, CSCS,  CISSN, earned 
her B.S. Health and Exercise Science from Wake 
Forest University. She earned her graduate degrees 
from The Milken Institute School of Public Health 
at The George Washington University, an MS in 
Exercise Science with a concentration in Strength 
and Conditioning, and an MPH in Communication 
and Marketing. Ms. Vargo is a certiﬁ  ed Health 
Coach through the American Council on Exercise 
and member of the Delta Omega Public Health 
Honors Society. She has contributed content to 
Discovery Health as well as the ACE Fitness Journal. She contributes content 
for the American Council on Exercise and serves as an adjunct instructor at 
The George Washington University Exercise and Nutrition Sciences 
Department. Ms. Vargo independently consults for both personal and group 
training, health coaching, and speaking engagements.
About the Contributors

xx
Chapter 8: 
Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements
Joan M. Eckerson
Joan M. Eckerson, PhD, CSCS, FNSCA, 
FACSM, is Professor in the Department of 
Exercise Science and Pre-Health Professions at 
Creighton University. She has over 50 publica-
tions in the area of body composition and dietary 
supplementation and currently serves on the edi-
torial board for the Journal of Strength and 
Conditioning Research and the Journal of the 
International Society of Sports Nutrition.
Chapter 9: 
Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations
Matthew B. Cooke and Paul J. Cribb
Matthew B. Cooke, BSc (Hons), PhD, received 
his Bachelor of Science (Biomedical Sciences) 
with honors and his Ph.D. in Exercise Science 
from Victoria University in Australia. Dr. Cooke 
then completed a Post-Doctoral Fellowship and 
Assistant Professorship at Baylor University 
from 2006 to 2009. In 2010, Dr. Cooke com-
pleted a Post-Doctoral fellowship in Clinical 
Exercise Physiology in the School of Medicine 
at the University of Queensland. Dr. Cooke is 
currently a Senior Lecturer and Deputy leader of the Biomedical and Lifestyle 
Disease (BioLED) Unit within the College of Health and Biomedicine at 
Victoria University in Melbourne, Australia. His areas of research interests 
include: Resistance training and nutritional interventions on the physiologi-
cal, biochemical, and molecular mechanisms regulating skeletal muscle atro-
phy (sarcopenia) associated with aging. Nutritional supplementation and/or 
varied training regimes to manipulate muscle bioenergetics in aged and dis-
eased populations. Exercise training and nutritional interventions on weight 
loss, weight maintenance, and metabolism in aged and diseased populations.
About the Contributors

xxi
Paul J. Cribb, PhD, CSCS, FATES His self-
designed Ph.D. program focused on nutrient tim-
ing, and the results have been published in top 
peer-reviewed journals and magazines. For his 
contributions to the exercise sciences, Dr. Cribb 
has been recognized as one of Australia’s leading 
researchers. Dr. Cribb serves on the Advisory 
Board for the ISSN and is the creator of Metabolic 
Precision, mp-body.com—the ﬁ  rst ever science-
based, nationally accredited body transformation 
program.
Chapter 10: 
Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes
Colin Wilborn
Colin Wilborn, PhD, CSCS, ATC, is currently 
Dean of the Graduate School and Research, an 
Associate Professor of Physical Therapy and 
Director of the Human Performance Lab at the 
University of Mary Hardin-Baylor. He has a BS 
in Exercise Science from the University of Mary 
Hardin-Baylor and a MSEd and PhD in Exercise 
Physiology and Nutrition from Baylor University. 
Colin has published numerous peer-reviewed 
articles, abstracts, and book chapters on the 
effects of sport supplements and exercise on 
body composition, metabolism, and perfor-
mance. Colin’s professional and personal interests are the effects resistance 
training and sport nutrition on health, body composition, and performance. 
Colin is a Fellow of the International Society of Sports Nutrition.
Chapter 11: 
Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes
Conrad P . Earnest and Christopher Rasmussen
Conrad P. Earnest, PhD, FACSM, in Exercise 
Physiology, has published over 140 journal articles 
including notable journals such as JAMA, 
JAMAArchives, Lancet Oncology, Diabetes Care, 
and numerous sport/exercise related journals. Dr. 
Earnest takes an integrative approach to health, 
nutrition, and athletic performance by looking at 
various ways to bridge gaps between sport perfor-
mance and disease states. He is also one of the most 
frequently published authors examining profes-
sional cyclists competing in the Grand tours of 
About the Contributors

xxii
Cycling (Tour de France, Giro d’Italia and Vuelta a Espana). Dr. Earnest is 
the current Director of Research for Nutrabolt International which holds a 
parttime graduate faculty appointment at Texas A&M University and was 
formerly a professor at The University of Bath, and associate professor at 
Pennington Biomedical, and VP of Research at The Cooper Institute.
Christopher Rasmussen, MS, CSCS, currently 
serves as a Research Associate in the Exercise 
and Sport Nutrition Laboratory (ESNL) within 
the Department of Health and Kinesiology 
(HLKN) at Texas A&M University in College 
Station, TX. He received Bachelor’s degree from 
Kansas University in Lawrence, KS, in 1997 and 
Master’s degree from the University of Memphis 
in Memphis, TN, in 2000. Chris has over 15 
years’ experience conducting human clinical tri-
als in the exercise and nutrition arena. I have three beautiful and wonderful 
women in my life, my wife Heather and daughters Katherine and Kelsie. My 
hobbies include spending time with family, running, and striving to maintain 
a healthy lifestyle.
Chapter 12: 
Nutritional Supplements to Enhance Recovery
Tim N. Ziegenfuss, Jamie Landis, Darryn Willoughby, and Mike Greenwood
Tim N. Ziegenfuss, PhD, CSCS, FISSN, is the 
Chief Executive Ofﬁ  cer of The Center for 
Applied Health Sciences. Dr. Ziegenfuss is a 
Past President and Fellow of the International 
Society of Sports Nutrition, a Certiﬁ  ed Strength 
and Conditioning Specialist, and a consultant to 
several professional sports teams in Europe 
(soccer) and the United States (American foot-
ball). In addition to his outreach program with 
athletes, he is active in clinical/academic research 
(600 articles in mainstream magazines, 40 scien-
tiﬁ c papers, 5 book chapters) and new product formulation with select sports 
nutrition companies.
About the Contributors

xxiii
Jamie Landis, MD, PhD, CSCS, received a 
B.S. in Biology from Ferris State University, fol-
lowed by an M.S. in Endocrine Physiology, and 
a Ph.D. in Neuroscience, both from Bowling 
Green State University. His M.D. was earned at 
the University of Toledo, followed by an intern-
ship in medicine at Michigan State University, 
and a residency appointment in Physical 
Medicine and Rehabilitation at the Mayo Clinic. 
He holds several awards for teaching excellence 
and has been named a Distinguished Professor of 
Biology at Lakeland Community College.
Darryn Willoughby, PhD, FACSM, FISSN, 
FACN, CSCS, CISSN, holds B.S. and M.S. 
degrees in Exercise Science from Tarleton State 
University and a Ph.D. in Neuromuscular 
Physiology and Biochemistry with sub-emphases 
in Nutritional Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology from Texas A&M University. He is a 
Fellow of the American College of Sports 
Medicine, International Society of Sport Nutrition, 
and American College of Nutrition. He is a 
Certiﬁ  ed Strength and Conditioning Specialist 
through the National Strength and Conditioning Association and a Certiﬁ  ed 
Sports Nutritionist through the ISSN. He is also a Past-President of the ISSN. 
Dr. Willoughby is presently an Associate Professor of Exercise and Nutritional 
Biochemistry and Molecular Physiology at Baylor University in Waco, TX.
Mike Greenwood, PhD, FISSN, FNSCA, 
FACSM, RSCC *D, CSCS *D, is currently a 
Full Clinical Professor in the Department of 
Health and Kinesiology at Texas A&M University. 
In addition to a v ariety of teaching and research 
responsibilities, Mike serves as a Research 
Associate for the Exercise and Sport Nutrition 
Laboratory located at Research Park in College 
Station. Over the past 30 years, Mike has served 
as a Departmental Graduate Director, Graduate 
Academic Director for Strength and Conditioning, 
Graduate Research Coordinator, as well as the Ph.D. Director primarily 
involved with the Institute for Exercise, Nutrition and Preventive Health. 
Mike is a Fellow of the International Society of Sport Nutrition (ISSN), 
National Strength and Conditioning Association (NSCA), and American 
College of Sport Medicine (ACSM). Dr. Greenwood is certiﬁ  ed as strength 
and conditioning specialist recognized with distinction by the NSCA and has 
previously served as a NCAA collegiate baseball/basketball coach as well as 
a collegiate strength training/conditioning professional. Mike is the NSCA 
About the Contributors

xxiv
Texas State Director and currently serves on the Advisory Board of ISSN and 
on the NSCA Certiﬁ  cation and Research Committees. His primary lines of 
research are in the areas of sport/exercise nutrition and strength and condi-
tioning. Dr. Greenwood serves on the Editorial Boards of the Strength and 
Conditioning Journal, Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition, 
and has reviewed manuscripts for Medicine and Science in Sports and 
Exercise as well as The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. In 
2003, Mike received the Educator of The Year Award from the National 
Strength and Conditioning Association and in 2005 honored as the Sunshine 
State Conference Baseball Coach of The Year.
Chapter 13: 
Nutrient Timing
Chad M. Kerksick and Nathan H. Cole
Chad M. Kerksick, PhD, CSCS *D, ATC, 
currently works as an Assistant Professor in the 
Exercise Science Department and also serves as 
the Graduate Program Director in the School of 
Sport, Recreation and Exercise Sciences at 
Lindenwood University in St. Charles, MO. In 
addition to this appointment, Dr. Kerksick serves 
on the Executive Council for the Nutrition, 
Metabolism and Body Composition Special 
Interest Group and as a member of the 
Scholarship Review Committee for the National 
Strength and Conditioning Association Foundation. He received his Ph.D. in 
Exercise, Nutrition, and Preventive Health from Baylor University and is cur-
rently certiﬁ  ed with distinction as a strength and conditioning specialist 
(CSCS*D) and certiﬁ  ed personal trainer (NSCA-CPT*D) by the National 
Strength and Conditioning Association and as an athletic trainer (ATC) by the 
National Athletic Trainers Association. He is recognized as a Fellow of the 
American College of Sports Medicine and International Society of Sports 
Nutrition and received his Master’s degree at the University of Memphis and 
Bachelor’s degree at Truman State University. Dr. Kerksick’s research con-
tinues to focus on studying the impact of exercise and nutrition on numerous 
aspects of health and performance, and from this work he has published over 
60 articles in peer-reviewed scientiﬁ  c journals, given over 100 research pre-
sentations, authored multiple chapters, and edited a recent book on nutrient 
timing.
About the Contributors

xxv
Nathan H. Cole, BS, has received his Bachelor’s 
degree in Exercise Science from the University of 
New Mexico and is currently a Master’s student 
studying Exercise Physiology in the Health, 
Exercise and Sport Sciences department at the 
University of New Mexico. He has previously pre-
sented his research at the Southwest Chapter of the 
American College of Sports Medicine regional 
meeting and is currently a member of the National 
Strength and Conditioning Association. His 
research interests revolve around human health 
and performance, particularly the biochemical, nutritional, and endocrino-
logical factors governing skeletal muscle action and adaptation.
Chapter 14: 
Carbohydrate Utilization and Disposal in Strength/Power Training and 
Sports: Examining the Underexamined
Anthony L. Almada and David Barr
Anthony L. Almada, MSc, FISSN, started his 
career in the natural products industry in 1975, 
working in retail nutrition stores. He has a B.Sc. in 
Physiology (Cal State U, Long Beach) and per-
formed his Master’s thesis research in Nutritional/
Exercise Biochemistry at UC Berkeley. In 1990 he 
created the “thermogenic” category of dietary sup-
plements. In 1992 he cofounded EAS, which pio-
neered creatine monohydrate and evidence-based 
sport nutrition in most of the world, and was the ﬁ  rst 
company to introduce Vitargo® outside of 
Scandinavia (in 1997). He has collaborated on over 50 university-based clini-
cal trials (nutrition intervention, in health and disease) and is a coauthor on 
over 30 peer-reviewed scientiﬁ  c journal articles. He is a frequently sought out 
nutrition business, science, and intellectual property expert, having been 
quoted in the New York Times, Business Week, and Forbes. He is on the 
editorial board of several scientiﬁ  c journals and is a member of the editorial 
advisory board of Nutrition Business Journal. He is a cofounder and Fellow 
of the International Society of Sports Nutrition (ISSN). He is the Founder and 
CEO of Vitargo Global Sciences, LLC.
About the Contributors

xxvi
David Barr, BSc, CSCS, CISSN His research expe-
rience includes work for NASA at the Johnson 
Space Center, as well as clinical research on the 
effect of amino acid intake on muscle growth. He 
has interviewed more than 100 key inﬂ  uencers 
throughout strength and conditioning, personal 
training, and sports nutrition. He is a registered 
Strength and Conditioning Coach with the NSCA 
and holds certiﬁ  cations through the ISSN, Precision 
Nutrition, USA Track and Field, and USA 
Weightlifting .
Chapter 15: 
Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes
Anupam Ohri, Stephen H. Schneider, Stephanie Wilson, and Gabe Wilson
Anupam Ohri, MD, is currently working as a 
Clinical Assistant Professor at Rutgers Robert 
Wood Johnson University Hospital. Anupam 
trained for her fellowship in Endocrinology from 
State University of New York at Buffalo. She 
completed her residency in Internal medicine at 
Jersey Shore University Medical Center in New 
Jersey. She also received residency training in 
Pathology in India. She is a member of American 
Association of Clinical endocrinologists. She has 
published peer r-viewed articles in several medi-
cal journals. She has keen interest in areas of 
research in exercise, nutrition, and Diabetes.
Stephen H. Schneider, MD, was a graduate of 
Boston University Medical School were he 
served on the faculty for a number of years. He is 
currently a Professor of Medicine at the Rutgers-
Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in New 
Brunswick New Jersey in the Division of 
Endocrinology, Metabolism, and Nutrition. He 
was one of the founders of the council on exer-
cise for the American Diabetes Association and 
has twice served as Chairman. During that time 
he contributed to the exercise recommendations 
of the ADA and edited and contributed to ADA publications for the use of 
exercise in diabetes. He has served as president of the New York Metropolitan 
chapter of the American College of Sports Medicine and as a board member 
of the Diabetes Exercise and Sports Association. In 2011, Dr. Schneider was 
awarded the lifetime achievement award of the New Jersey Diabetes 
Foundation in part for his early work on exercise and the metabolic syn-
drome. Dr. Schneider has published numerous articles and chapters on the 
About the Contributors

xxvii
use of exercise in the treatment and prevention of diabetes and continues his 
interest in the application of exercise and diet for that patient population as a 
clinician and participant in multicenter studies. He maintains an active teach-
ing and clinical practice for patients with diabetes and other endocrine disor-
ders at the Rutgers Medical School.
Stephanie Wilson, MS, RD, LD, is the Head of 
Nutrition at IMG Academy in Bradenton, 
Florida, where she oversees the development and 
implementation of researched-based sport nutri-
tion programs for over 900 student-athletes and 
over 200 professional athletes yearly, including 
dozens of gold medal recipients. Originally from 
St. Louis, Stephanie graduated summa cum 
laude from Saint Louis University with her 
Bachelor of Science degrees in Nutrition/
Dietetics and Spanish. Stephanie holds a Master of Science degree in 
Nutrition with Sports Nutrition emphasis and a minor in Applied Physiology 
and Kinesiology from the University of Florida. Currently, Stephanie is a 
Ph.D. Candidate at Grand Canyon University, where she is pursuing a degree 
in psychology: cognition and instruction for athletes. Stephanie has published 
in multiple high-impact, peer-reviewed journals and coauthored book chap-
ters. Stephanie’s excellence has been recognized on multiple occasions, hav-
ing been a recipient of the American Dietetic Association (ADA) 
Undergraduate of the Year Award (2007), St. Louis University Doisy College 
Undergraduate of the Year award (2007), Missouri Dietetic Student of the 
Year (2007), ADA Intern of the Year Award (2009), the Florida Dietetic 
Association Intern of the Year Award (2009), and the William and Agnes 
Brown Research Scholar Award (2009).
Gabriel Wilson, PhD, is the Head of Science and 
Innovation at Maximum Human Performance 
(MHP) in West Caldwell, New Jersey, where he has 
a lead role in research and product development, 
innovation, and ideation. Gabriel is originally from 
Richmond, California, where he pursued a bache-
lors and master’s degree in Kinesiology from Cal 
State University East Bay. Gabriel has a Ph.D. in 
nutritional sciences from the University of Illinois 
and has extensive research experience in the area of 
protein and amino acid metabolism and nutritional 
supplementation, and their impact on health and 
athletic performance. Dr. Wilson has published over 50 peer-reviewed papers, 
manuscripts, and book chapters, and spoken at several scientiﬁ  c conferences 
including the ISSN and Experimental Biology. Gabriel also has extensive 
experience in the sports nutrition ﬁ  eld, having served as a Nutrition Coach at 
IMG Academy in Bradenton Florida, and having consulted numerous insti-
tutes and nutritional companies including Saint Mary’s College Nutrition 
program, Post Foods, and Champion Nutrition.
About the Contributors

xxviii
Part IV . Present and Future Directions of Nutritional Supplements
Chapter 16: 
Beyond the Obvious: Future Innovations in Sports Nutrition
Anthony L. Almada
Anthony L. Almada, MSc, FISSN, started his 
career in the natural products industry in 1975, 
working in retail nutrition stores. He has a B.Sc. in 
Physiology (Cal State U, Long Beach) and per-
formed his Master’s thesis research in Nutritional/
Exercise Biochemistry at UC Berkeley. In 1990 he 
created the “thermogenic” category of dietary sup-
plements. In 1992 he cofounded EAS, which pio-
neered creatine monohydrate and evidence-based 
sport nutrition in most of the world, and was the ﬁ  rst 
company to introduce Vitargo® outside of 
Scandinavia (in 1997). He has collaborated on over 50 university-based clini-
cal trials (nutrition intervention, in health and disease) and is a coauthor on 
over 30 peer-reviewed scientiﬁ  c journal articles. He is a frequently sought out 
nutrition business, science, and intellectual property expert, having been 
quoted in the New York Times, Business Week, and Forbes. He is on the 
editorial board of several scientiﬁ  c journals and is a member of the editorial 
advisory board of Nutrition Business Journal. He is a cofounder and Fellow 
of the International Society of Sports Nutrition (ISSN). He is the Founder and 
CEO of Vitargo Global Sciences, LLC.
About the Contributors

   P a r t  I  
   The Industrial Nature of the 
Supplement Game        

3 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_1      Effect of Government Regulation 
on the Evolution of Sports 
Nutrition 
           Rick     Collins       and     Douglas     S. Kalman     
    Abstract  
  The sports nutrition segment of the dietary supplement industry enjoyed 
over a decade of unfettered growth under federal legislation passed in 
1994. A series of breakthroughs in the dietary supplement ﬁ  eld led to the 
development and marketing of innovative products designed to enhance 
performance, build muscle, or lose excess fat. As the popularity of these 
products soared and evolved into a multibillion dollar industry, the sports 
nutrition supplement market drew the attention of federal and state regula-
tory bodies and sports anti-doping authorities. Growing concerns over 
potential consumer health risks, banned substance contamination, and 
unfair athletic advantages have spurred government regulators and legisla-
tors to heighten the scrutiny of this market in recent years, leading to leg-
islative amendments and increased government enforcement action.  
  Keywords  
  Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994   •   Food and Drug 
Administration   •   Dietary supplements   •   FTC   •   Nutrition  
1.1         Dietary Supplement Health 
and Education Act of 1994 
 The Dietary Supplement Health and Education 
Act of 1994 (DSHEA) was passed with the unan-
imous consent of Congress. This statute was 
enacted amid claims that the Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) was distorting the then- 
existing provisions of the Food, Drug, and 
Cosmetic Act (FDCA) [ 1 ] to try improperly to 
deprive the public of safe and popular dietary         R.   Collins ,  ESQ, JD, FISSN      ( *) 
  Collins, McDonald & Gann, P.C. ,   138 Mineola 
Boulevard ,  Mineola ,  NY   11501 ,  USA   
 e-mail: rcollins@supplementcounsel.com    
    D.S.   Kalman ,  PhD, RD, CCRC, FISSN, FACN      
  Florida International University ,   Miami ,  FL 33199 ,  USA   
 e-mail: dkalman@miamiresearch.com    1

4
supplement products. The FDA was perceived as 
engaging in anti-supplement policy and enforce-
ment tactics, provoking a groundswell of legisla-
tive criticism. In its ofﬁ  cial report about the need 
for DSHEA to curtail excessive regulation of 
dietary supplements by the FDA, the Senate 
Committee on Labor and Human Resources 
charged that the “FDA has been distorting the 
law in its actions to try to prevent the marketing 
of safe dietary supplement substances” [ 2 ]. The 
Senate Committee also concluded that the “FDA 
has attempted to twist the statute (i.e., the provi-
sions of the FDCA, as it then existed) in what the 
Committee sees as a result-oriented effort to 
impede the manufacture and sale of dietary sup-
plements” [ 3 ]. 
 DSHEA represented a sharp rebuke to the 
FDA’s regulatory tactics of the time. However, 
although DSHEA deﬁ  ned “dietary supplements” 
and “dietary ingredients,” set certain criteria for 
“new dietary ingredients,” and prevented FDA 
from overreaching, it did not, as some critics 
have charged, leave the industry unregulated. 
The dietary supplement industry is in fact regu-
lated by the FDA as a result of DSHEA. The 
Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition 
(CFSAN), a branch of the FDA, along with the 
Ofﬁ ce of Dietary Supplements (ODS) assists the 
FDA in the regulation of dietary supplements. 
This power ensures the FDA’s authority to pro-
vide legitimate protections for the public health. 
The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) also con-
tinues to have jurisdiction over the claims (mar-
keting, from implied to direct claims) that 
manufacturers make about their products. The 
FDA and FTC work together to regulate the 
dietary supplement industry. There is increased 
sharing of information and overlapping of juris-
diction with regard to marketing and advertising 
of dietary supplements. 
 DSHEA regulates dietary supplements more 
like conventional foods than like drugs. Why? 
The reasoning is that the ingredients in supple-
ments are inherently safe because they are con-
tained in the foods that humans eat. Unlike drugs, 
dietary supplements do not require pre-approval 
from the FDA. Dietary supplements, unlik e drugs, 
cannot be marketed to treat or cure diseases. Accordingly, dietary supplements with claims on 
the labeling that promote treatment, prevention, 
or cure for a speciﬁ  c disease or condition 
would be considered an unapproved—and thus 
illegal—drug.  
1.2     Government Protections 
from Dietary Supplement 
Hazards and Risks 
 How is the FDA authorized to protect the public 
in the realm of dietary supplements? What if evi-
dence showed that a particular supplement prod-
uct was causing an acute epidemic of illnesses 
and fatalities? What could the FDA do about it? 
The FDA is an Operating Division of the US 
Department of Health and Human Services 
(HHS), which is headed by the Secretary of 
HHS. The Secretary has the power to declare a 
dangerous supplement to be an “imminent haz-
ard” to public health or safety and immediately 
suspend sales of the product [ 4 ]. 
 The FDA also has the authority to protect 
consumers from dietary supplements that  do 
not  present an imminent hazard to the public 
but  do  present certain  risks   of illness or injury to 
consumers. The FDCA prohibits introducing 
 adulterated   products into interstate commerce [ 5 ]. 
Two important provisions exist by which unsafe 
dietary supplements can be deemed to be adul-
terated [ 6 ]. 
 The ﬁ  rst provision, which applies to all 
dietary supplements, states that a supplement 
shall be deemed adulterated if it presents “a sig-
niﬁ cant or unreasonable risk of illness or injury 
under … conditions of use recommended or sug-
gested in labeling, or … if no conditions of use 
are suggested or recommended in the labeling, 
under ordinary conditions of use” [ 7 ]. The stan-
dard does not require proof that consumers have 
 actually   been harmed or even that a product will 
harm anyone. It was under this provision that the 
FDA concluded that dietary supplements con-
taining ephedra presented an unreasonable risk. 
The criminal penalties for a ﬁ  rst conviction of 
 introducing adulterated supplement products into 
interstate commerce can include a ﬁ  ne of up to R. Collins and D.S. Kalman

5
$1,000, imprisonment for up to 1 year, or both [ 8 ]. 
Subsequent convictions, or convictions for 
offenses committed with the intent to defraud or 
mislead, can include ﬁ  nes of up to $10,000, 
imprisonment of up to 3 years, or both [ 9 ]. 
 The second provision by which supplements 
may be deemed adulterated addresses only dietary 
supplements containing “new dietary ingredients” 
for which the FDA believes there may be inade-
quate information to provide a reasonable assur-
ance that the ingredient does not present a 
signiﬁ  cant risk of illness or injury.  
1.3     New Dietary Ingredients 
 Recognizing that new and untested dietary sup-
plement products may pose unknown health 
issues, DSHEA distinguishes between products 
containing dietary ingredients that were already 
on the market and products containing new 
dietary ingredients that were not marketed prior 
to the enactment of the law [ 10 ]. A “new dietary 
ingredient” (NDI) is deﬁ  ned as a dietary ingredi-
ent that was not marketed in the United States 
before October 15, 1994 [ 11 ]. DSHEA grants the 
FDA greater control over supplements containing 
new dietary ingredients. A new dietary ingredient 
is deemed adulterated and subject to FDA 
enforcement sanctions unless it meets one of the 
two exemption criteria: either (1) the supplement 
in question contains “only dietary ingredients 
which have been present in the food supply as an 
article used for food in a form in which the food 
has not been chemically altered,” or (2) there is a 
“history of use or other evidence of safety” pro-
vided by the manufacturer or distributor to the 
FDA at least 75 days before introducing the prod-
uct into interstate commerce [ 12 ]. The ﬁ  rst crite-
rion is silent as to how and by whom presence in 
the food supply as food articles without chemical 
alteration is to be established. The second crite-
rion—applicable only to new dietary ingredients 
that have not been present in the food supply—
requires manufacturers and distributors of the 
product to take certain actions. Those actions 
include submitting, at least 75 days before the 
product is introduced into interstate commerce, information that is the basis on which a product 
containing the new dietary ingredient is “reason-
ably be expected to be safe” [ 13 ]. That informa-
tion would include (1) the name of the new 
dietary ingredient and, if it is an herb or botani-
cal, the Latin binomial name and (2) a descrip-
tion of the dietary supplement that contains the 
new dietary ingredient, including (a) the level of 
the new dietary ingredient in the product; (b) 
conditions of use of the product stated in the 
labeling or, if no conditions of use are stated, the 
ordinary conditions of use; and (c) a history of 
use or other evidence of safety establishing that 
the dietary ingredient, when used under the con-
ditions recommended or suggested in the label-
ing of the dietary supplement, is reasonably 
expected to be safe. For most of DSHEA’s exis-
tence, there was no guidance as to what evidence 
might be required to establish a reasonable 
expectation of safety. In fact, the FDA speciﬁ  -
cally stated that the person submitting the appli-
cation is responsible for determining what 
information provides the basis for the conclusion 
that the product is reasonably expected to be safe. 
The only hint given was that the FDA expects the 
applicant to “consider the evidence of safety 
found in the scientiﬁ  c literature, including an 
examination of adverse effects associated with 
the use of the substance” [ 14 ]. 
 In July 2011, the FDA released a Draft Guidance 
for Industry, entitled “Dietary Supplements: New 
Dietary Ingredient Notiﬁ  cations and Related 
Issues” [ 15 ]. While a guidance does not carry 
the authority or the enforceability of a law or 
regulation, the FDA’s NDI draft guidance repre-
sented the agency’s current thinking on the topic:
  The purpose of this guidance is to give manufac-
turers and distributors of these products informa-
tion and recommendations to help them decide 
when a NDI notiﬁ  cation is necessary and to 
improve the quality and quantity of NDI notiﬁ  ca-
tions. There are an estimated 55,600 dietary sup-
plement products on the market, and FDA has 
received approximately 700 NDI notiﬁ  cations 
since we began reviewing NDI notiﬁ  cations 
approximately 16 years ago. Additionally, the 
Institute of Medicine has estimated that 1,000 new 
dietary supplements are introduced to the market 
each year These ﬁ  gures, coupled with recent con-
cern by both the agency and industry regarding the 1 Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition

6
presence of undeclared active ingredients in prod ucts 
marketed as dietary supplements, highlight the 
necessity for marketers of dietary supplements to 
submit NDI notiﬁ  cations as an important preven-
tive control to ensure that the consumer is not 
exposed to potential unnecessary public health 
risks in the form of new ingredients with unknown 
safety proﬁ  les. [ 16 ] 
   The controversial draft guidance was met by 
staunch criticism from the supplement industry. 
Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Tom Harkin 
(D-Iowa), who were the principal authors of 
DSHEA, asked the FDA Commissioner to with-
draw the guidance and replace it with a new draft 
that “will provide needed clariﬁ  cation on what 
constitutes an NDI, but does not undermine the 
balance Congress struck in DSHEA to provide 
consumers with access to safe, affordable dietary 
supplement products” [ 17 ]. Other members of 
Congress and various industry trade groups have 
asked the FDA to clarify its positions, including 
the subject of identity information for NDI notiﬁ  -
cations. Other questions surround whether NDI 
notiﬁ cations should be submitted when a ﬁ  rm 
changes its manufacturing process or the ratio of 
ingredients and what would cause an ingredient to 
be “chemically altered.” Given the many uncer-
tainties surrounding the draft guidance, the FDA 
eventually agreed (after initially refusing) to with-
draw the document. As of this writing, the FDA 
has not issued further NDI guidance documents.  
1.4     New Dietary Ingredient 
Review: Application Process 
 If a supplement manufacturer seeks to market an 
ingredient to the public that was not previously 
sold on the US market (prior to October 15, 
1994), a dossier of animal and human safety data 
and/or proof of historical use as a food must be 
compiled. Unless the ingredient has been present 
in the food supply as an article used for food in a 
form in which the food has not been chemically 
altered, the history of use or other evidence of 
safety must be presented to the FDA/CFSAN at 
least 75 days before introducing the product into 
interstate commerce. What sort of information should be presented? By what process would the 
FDA evaluate the data to determine if the ingredi-
ent should be allowed on the market? Let us take 
an example. 
 Excluding discussions of whether animal 
safety studies have utility as related to efﬁ  cacy 
outcome-oriented research in humans, let us 
assume that the product of interest was found to 
be of acceptable safety margins when used in 
human doses. This means that the animal studies 
found the ingredient to be noncarcinogenic, to 
have a high LD 50  (median lethal dose), and not to 
be organotoxic. In addition, let us assume that the 
human studies also found the product not to have 
an effect on blood pressure or heart rate or on 
markers of safety as denoted by speciﬁ  c blood 
tests (e.g., liver, kidney). Based on the compila-
tion of animal and brief human studies, we can 
believe that the product is nontoxic, although fur-
ther and more invasive safety data are warranted. 
 For example, the dietary supplement popu-
larly known as 7-Keto®, also known as 3-acetyl- 
7-oxo dehydroepiandrosterone, was “approved” 
by the FDA via the NDI premarket notiﬁ  cation 
process. Prior to marketing 7-Keto as a dietary 
supplement, it was submitted for a review of 
safety to the FDA in the form of an NDI premar-
ket notiﬁ  cation. This document, which can be 
viewed at the FDA website, received no com-
ments or concerns expressed from the 
FDA. Subsequent to this initial ﬁ  ling, another 
NDI premarket notiﬁ  cation has been ﬁ  led spe-
ciﬁ c to the use of 7-Keto for weight loss in adults 
at the prescribed dosage. This notiﬁ  cation also 
has received no comments or concerns expressed 
from the FDA. 
 The FDA has a searchable database of submit-
ted NDIs that the public can view, located online 
[ 18 ]. In addition to 7-Keto, other popular dietary 
supplements (e.g., creatine ethyl ester, vinpo-
cetine, Diosmin 95) have successfully undergone 
the NDI process. Some applications to the FDA 
fail to meet the bar of demonstrating relative 
safety, usefulness, and other criteria requested by 
the FDA in the application, and thus the rejection 
or failure rate for NDI applications is thought to 
be about 65–70 % of the applications submitted.  R. Collins and D.S. Kalman

7
1.5     FDA Regulatory Action: 
Ephedra Supplements 
and DMAA 
 In February 2004, the FDA issued a ﬁ  nal rule 
prohibiting the sale of dietary supplements con-
taining ephedrine alkaloids, reasoning that this 
category of supplements presented an unreason-
able risk of illness or injury (based on a risk-to- 
beneﬁ  t evaluation) [ 19 ]. The rule took effect on 
April 12, 2004, 60 days from the date of publica-
tion, at which time companies that continued to 
sell supplements containing ephedra alkaloids 
found themselves subject to a variety of enforce-
ment possibilities, including seizure of the prod-
uct, injunction against the manufacturers and 
distributors of such products, and criminal pros-
ecution of violators. Three months after the rule 
was announced, Utah-based Nutraceutical Corp. 
ﬁ led suit challenging the ban, speciﬁ  cally the 
FDA’s risk-to-beneﬁ  t analysis, arguing that the 
FDA had not shown ephedra supplements to 
present an undue risk at low doses. 
 In April 2005, a federal court in Salt Lake City 
(US District Court for the District of Utah, Central 
Division) issued its decision on a legal challenge 
to the FDA’s 2004 Final Rule banning all ephed-
rine-alkaloid dietary supplements. Judge Tena 
Campbell’s decision made two key points:
•    It held that the analysis used by the FDA was 
incorrect and improper. The FDA’s analysis 
weighed risks against beneﬁ  ts. DSHEA, how-
ever, requires a straightforward  risk  assess-
ment. The court held that requiring supplement 
companies to demonstrate a beneﬁ  t as a pre-
condition to marketing violated DSHEA by 
shifting the burden from the FDA to industry.  
•   It held that the FDA did not have adequate sci-
entiﬁ c evidence to ﬁ  nd that a daily dose of 
10 mg or less of ephedrine alkaloids presented 
a “signiﬁ  cant or unreasonable risk of illness or 
injury” [under 21 U.S.C. § 342(f)(1)(A)]. The 
court effectively held that it is improper to ban 
all ephedra supplements because the FDA lacks 
data to determine what dosage might be safe.    
 The FDA ﬁ  led a notice of appeal in the 10th 
Circuit Court of Appeals.  On August 17, 2006, the US Circuit Court of 
Appeals in Denver reversed and remanded the 
Utah ruling that challenged the FDA ban on prod-
ucts containing ephedra. The federal appeals 
court overturned Judge Campbell’s decision, rul-
ing that the FDA was correct in its 2004 analysis 
of ephedrine products, concluding that the FDA 
had properly examined the facts when it ruled, in 
2004, that dietary supplements containing ephed-
rine alkaloids present an “unreasonable risk of 
illness or injury” and that there is no acceptable 
dose of the ingredient. Pursuant to this, the gov-
ernment has since seized numerous products con-
taining the herbal ingredient. 
 Further appeals/petitions were ﬁ  led by 
Nutraceutical, followed by a petition for a writ 
of certiorari to the US Supreme Court. The US 
Supreme Court denied Nutraceutical’s petition 
for certiorari on May 14, 2007, refusing to con-
sider their appeal, establishing a precedent for the 
applicable legal standards, and conﬁ  rming the 
FDA’s regulatory authority over the issues. 
 In 2012, the FDA again targeted a fat-loss 
ingredient. This time, it was a stimulant called 
DMAA, also known as 1,3-dimethylamylamine, 
methylhexanamine, or geranium extract. Citing 
evidence that DMAA, especially in combination 
with other ingredients such as caffeine, can pose 
health risks to consumers, FDA issued warning 
letters to companies notifying them that DMAA 
products were adulterated and needed to be taken 
off the market [ 20 ]. One company resisted, 
defending its marketing of the substance as legal, 
until FDA took administrative detention actions. 
In July 2013, the remaining stock of the products, 
estimated to have been worth more than $8 mil-
lion at the retail level, was voluntarily destroyed 
by the ﬁ  rm [ 21 ].  
1.6     FDA Regulatory Actions: 
Androstenedione, Piracetam, 
and ATD 
 The ban on androstenedione is another exam-
ple of the authority of the FDA to prohibit the 
marketing of ingredients the agency believes 
are adulterated. On March 11, 2004, the FDA 
pronounced that dietary supplement products 1 Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition

8
containing androstenedione were adulterated 
new dietary ingredients under DSHEA. For the 
second time in as many months, the FDA took 
regulatory action against the sports nutrition 
industry. There was no evidence of an immi-
nent health hazard posed by androstenedione. 
However, instead of the formal administrative 
procedure of issuing a proposed rule and invit-
ing public comment, the FDA took unilateral 
action, issued a press release, held a news con-
ference, and sent warning letters to 23 compa-
nies that had manufactured, marketed, or 
distributed the products containing androstene-
dione. In its warning letters, the FDA threat-
ened possible enforcement actions for 
noncompliance. The effect was to cause retail-
ers, manufacturers, and distributors alike to 
cease selling products containing androstene-
dione. No meaningful dialogue between the 
FDA and industry occurred prior to the FDA 
taking this action. 
 Supplements containing androstenedione 
were introduced during the mid-1990s and were 
promoted as a natural way to help increase 
strength and muscle mass as well as to combat 
the effects of the aging process in older men, 
much of which is attributed to declining testos-
terone levels. Like dehydroepiandrosterone 
(DHEA), androstenedione is a naturally derived 
precursor to testosterone. Androstenedione con-
verts directly to testosterone in the metabolic 
pathway. The fact that it is naturally derived 
and, as described below, present in the food sup-
ply is important in relation to the action taken 
by the FDA. In its press release [ 22 ] and warn-
ing letters, the FDA declared androstenedione to 
be an adulterated new dietary ingredient based 
on its position that no evidence demonstrates 
“that androstenedione was lawfully marketed as 
a dietary ingredient in the United States before 
October 15, 1994” [ 23 ]. It seems to be correct 
that androstenedione was not marketed before 
1994, given that the ﬁ  rst commercial marketing 
of products containing androstenedione appears 
to have been in 1996. Furthermore, a review of 
the FDA’s electronic database indicates no sub-
mission of an application for a new dietary 
ingredient involving androstenedione [ 24 ]. Interestingly, however, the FDA went beyond 
the explicit words of the statute and used the 
term “lawfully marketed” in their letters instead 
of simply “marketed.” The implication was that 
to receive “grandfathered” status into DSHEA 
as a pre-1994 supplement ingredient, the prod-
uct must not only have been marketed but must 
have met the additional requirement of having 
been  lawfully   marketed. At least one commenta-
tor has interpreted this language to impose a 
burden on industry to prove the product was 
generally recognized as safe (GRAS) pre-
1994—an impossible standard for any product 
that was not explicitly afﬁ  rmed as such by the 
FDA prior to the enactment of DSHEA [ 25 ]. 
Assuming that androstenedione is indeed a new 
dietary ingredient, the FDA could determine 
that products containing androstenedione are 
adulterated under DSHEA unless they meet 
either of the two exemption criteria stated above. 
 Accordingly, it appears that the question of 
exemption turns on (1) whether androstenedi-
one is present in the food supply as an article 
used for food without chemical alteration and 
(2), if not, whether the product could satisfy the 
requirement of reasonable expectation of safety. 
With respect to the ﬁ  rst exemption, according to 
scientiﬁ  c journals, androstenedione is indeed 
present in the food supply without chemical 
alteration [ 26 ]. Had there been open communi-
cation between the FDA and industry, the scien-
tiﬁ c evidence that androstenedione is present in 
the foods we eat could have been presented and 
discussed. Moreover, until 1998, which is the 
date for the most recent information, there were 
no reports of adverse events reported on the 
FDA’s database [ 27 ]. Adverse events comprise 
one of the few speciﬁ  c pieces of information 
that the FDA sets forth in their “information” 
about what safety data they require [ 28 ]. The 
FDA’s requirements to show safety have never 
been fully articulated; arguably, the FDA’s policy 
creates a nearly impossible procedure to demon-
strate safety. Unlike the situation reg arding ephe-
dra supplements, industry did not formally 
challenge the FDA’s regulatory action regarding 
androstenedione, and sales of androstenedione 
ceased. R. Collins and D.S. Kalman

9
 The FDA’s action on androstenedione marked 
the start of a heightened enforcement policy 
against what the agency deems to be adulterated 
new dietary ingredients. In August 2010, the 
FDA took actions with respect to  piracetam   and 
 1,4,6-etioallocholan-dione   (also known as 
 3,17-keto-etiochol-triene   and more commonly 
referred to as  ATD ). The FDA sent a letter to a 
dietary supplement ﬁ  rm indicating that the 
agency did not believe that piracetam and ATD 
are dietary ingredients, and when combined with 
claims that the products affect the structure or 
function of the body, these substances are “new 
drugs,” not supplements [ 29 ]. Signiﬁ  cantly, in a 
footnote to the letter, the FDA referenced a 2003 
NDI notiﬁ  cation ﬁ  led by the ﬁ  rm for piracetam 
and a 2004 reply by CFSAN, stating FDA’s posi-
tion that piracetam is “not a dietary ingredient.” 
Although the company apparently complied with 
the 75-day premarket NDI notiﬁ  cation require-
ment, the FDA failed to respond to the company’s 
notiﬁ cation within the 75-day waiting period (the 
response was more than 90 days after the notiﬁ  -
cation had been ﬁ  led). The warning letter was not 
issued until 6 years after the notiﬁ  cation was ﬁ  led 
and after the products had been discontinued. 
 Due to the long-after-the-fact timing of these 
particular enforcement actions, little substantive 
debate or review of the NDI regulations was gen-
erated. The FDA actions do, however, reinforce 
the need for clariﬁ  cation and guidance with 
respect to NDI notiﬁ  cations. These actions should 
also serve as notice to the dietary supplement 
industry as a whole that FDA is shifting its focus 
toward NDIs and that we can likely expect more 
enforcement actions in the near future. 
 If a new dietary ingredient is exempted from 
adulterated status because it is present in the food 
supply as an article used for food in a form in 
which the food has not been chemically altered, it 
is prudent for supplement companies to docu-
ment that information prior to marketing the 
product or even to communicate that information 
to the FDA. If a new dietary ingredient is not 
exempted from adulterated status based on the 
food-supply exemption, premarket notiﬁ  cation of 
history of use or other evidence of safety estab-
lishing that the dietary ingredient, when used under the conditions recommended or suggested 
in the labeling of the dietary supplement, is rea-
sonably expected to be safe must be provided to 
the FDA at least 75 days before the product is 
introduced into interstate commerce.  
1.7     Contaminated Supplements 
and Banned Ingredients 
 Research conducted by the United States 
Olympic Committee in 2004 found that 90 % of 
athletes use some form of dietary supplements. 
To ensure a “level playing ﬁ  eld” and protect the 
health of athletes, sports bodies are free to create 
their own lists of banned ingredients. Athletes are 
generally held under a standard of “strict liabil-
ity” by their respective sport bodies and are there-
fore held responsible for everything they put into 
their bodies. 
 Highly publicized cases, however, have shown 
that when athletes fail drug tests, tainted dietary 
supplements may be blamed, and expensive liti-
gation may follow. Such lawsuits may seek not 
only compensation for the athlete’s lost potential 
income during the ever-lengthening suspensions 
from athletic bodies and the tarnishing of the ath-
lete’s name in the publicity that follows a positive 
test but also punitive damages in the tens of mil-
lions. One of the most well-known lawsuits 
against a dietary supplement company involved 
world-class swimmer Kicker Vencill, who tested 
positive for the anabolic steroid nandrolone. He 
blamed it on contaminated dietary supplements—
vitamin capsules. When he received a 2-year sus-
pension from competition, he sued the sports 
nutrition company Ultimate Nutrition and 
received a nearly $600,000 verdict, which was 
later appealed. The case was later settled for an 
undisclosed amount with no direct admission of 
guilt by the manufacturer. 
 The National Football League (NFL) running 
back Mike Cloud, a Boston College graduate 
playing for the Patriots, tested positive for noran-
drostenedione and androstenediol (two nandro-
lone metabolites). He claimed that a tainted whey 
protein powder (Nitro-Tech™) caused his posi-
tive test and consequent four-game suspension, 1 Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition

10
while the supplement’s Canadian manufacturer, 
MuscleTech, countersued, maintaining that the 
allegations were false and amounted to trade 
libel. Pavle Jovanovic, a US bobsledder, tested 
positive for 19-norandrosterone (also a nandro-
lone metabolite) in 2001. He was suspended for 
2 years and disqualiﬁ  ed from the Salt Lake City 
Olympics in 2002. He blamed his troubles on 
MuscleTech’s whey protein, saying it was cross- 
contaminated by one of its prohormone products. 
Jovanovic also ﬁ  led suit, and MuscleTech coun-
tersued. Both Cloud and Jovanovic submitted 
tests showing containers of the product contained 
nandrolone metabolites not listed on the label 
(these results were also televised nationally on 
Bryant Gumbel’s HBO Inside Sports show). 
 Graydon Oliver, a tennis player, tested posi-
tive in 2003 for the prohibited substance hydro-
chlorothiazide, a diuretic used as a masking agent 
for other banned substances (used medically 
typically for hypertension). He blamed a purport-
edly homeopathic Chinese herbal sleeping aid 
called Relax-Aid. He ﬁ  led suit on October 1, 
2004, against Keimke Inc. (a.k.a. Barry’s Vitamin 
and Herbs), a Boca Raton purveyor of food and 
health supplements. The Association of Tennis 
Professionals panel found that Oliver was aware 
of the ATP warnings regarding using supple-
ments and that he failed to investigate the product 
as thoroughly as possible. ATP suspended Oliver 
for 2 months and directed him to forfeit $5,000 in 
prize money and championship points. Oliver 
had retained a sample of Relax-Aid for testing 
( note : his sample of Relax-Aid also tested posi-
tive for chlordiazepoxide, the active ingredient in 
Librium). Allegedly, the store owner, even after 
being informed that the user was a professional 
athlete subject to mandatory testing, told Oliver’s 
mother who purchased the product that the 
dietary supplement was safe for all sports organi-
zations as it contained no banned ingredients. 
Graydon brought suit alleging $15 million in 
damages (economic and noneconomic losses). 
 In 2013, Australian middleweight boxing 
champion Sam Soliman beat German champion 
Felix Sturm by unanimous decision in Dusseldorf, 
Germany, in a voluntary eliminator for the #1 
position. Subsequently, it was revealed that Soliman’s A sample from a urine test was positive 
for oxilofrine which is a banned stimulant on the 
WADA list. He was suspended for 9 months by 
the German authorities, although the positive 
ﬁ nding likely resulted from a contaminated sup-
plement product. Soliman was ultimately exoner-
ated when his B sample was tested and retained 
his position as the IBF’s #1 contender for the 
World Middleweight title. There have been cases 
tracking from at least 2009 of other athletes who 
have for some reason tested position for this 
stimulant [ 30 ]. Some of the athletes who have 
tested positive for this banned medication 
have also maintained that they were only taking 
dietary supplements and that the supplement was 
contaminated. These positive drug tests from 
potentially tainted supplements have led to 
greater awareness and messaging by the testing 
organizations to athletes and the public. As oxilo-
frine falls under as a regulated class of medica-
tion, it ought not to be part of any legal dietary 
supplement. 
 A 2002 International Olympic Committee 
(IOC) study titled “Analysis of Non-Hormonal 
Nutritional Supplements for Anabolic- Androgenic 
Steroids” done by an IOC-accredited drug testing 
laboratory found that 94 of the 634 (14.8 %) 
dietary supplement samples it studied contained 
substances not listed on the label that would trig-
ger positive drug tests. The dietary supplements 
were from 12 countries. The dietary supplements 
from the United States tested positive in 45 of the 
240 products tested, at a fail rate of 18.8 %. 
During the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Games, 
athletes from the Netherlands submitted 55 sup-
plements to be conﬁ  dentially analyzed for banned 
substances. In total, 25 % of the supplements 
tested positive for prohibited substances. 
 When DSHEA was passed in 1994, it con-
tained a provision requiring that FDA establish 
and enforce current Good Manufacturing Practices 
(cGMPs) for dietary supplements. However, it 
was not until 2007 that the cGMPs were ﬁ  nally 
approved, and not until 2010 that the cGMPs 
applied across the industry, to large and small 
companies alike. The adherence to cGMPs has 
helped protect against the contamination issues 
discussed and should serve to improve consumer R. Collins and D.S. Kalman

11
conﬁ dence in dietary supplements. We should 
expect an improving market, as these regulations 
impose new, stringent requirements such as ven-
dor certiﬁ  cation, document control procedures, 
and identity testing. These compliance criteria 
address the problems that have damaged the rep-
utation of the industry with a focus on quality 
control, record keeping, and documentation. 
 However, it does appear that some within the 
industry continue to struggle with compliance. In 
2010, it was reported that about one-third of 
FDA’s 90 dietary supplement cGMP inspections 
that year revealed severe compliance problems. 
The most common problem was reportedly 
“inadequate identity testing.” Undoubtedly, rely-
ing on certiﬁ  cates of analysis from the raw mate-
rials, supplier without further testing, or failing to 
conduct identity testing of a ﬁ  nished product, can 
result in the creation of a product that contains 
something it should not—such as synthetic 
chemicals or even pharmaceutical drugs. All 
members of the industry need to ensure compli-
ance with cGMPs.  
1.8     Anabolic Steroid Control Act 
 During the past decade, the use of performance- 
enhancing substances in sports has been in the 
media spotlight like never before, with publicized 
positive doping tests in major and minor league 
professional baseball, professional football, track 
and ﬁ  eld, cycling, weightlifting, tennis, inline 
skating, boxing, soccer, swimming, softball, 
Paralympics, and even horse racing. Chemically 
induced advantages can undermine the traditional 
principle of a level playing ﬁ  eld, and the abuse of 
these substances can lead to health risks. The war 
against the use of performance-enhancing sub-
stances in sports has been waged mostly on two 
fronts: (1) prohibition of the substances by ath-
letic bodies that have implemented drug testing 
of players and (2) federal and state legislation of 
the substances as dangerous drugs with criminal 
penalties imposed on violators. Federal legisla-
tors responded to the reports of extensive use of 
anabolic steroids and steroid precursors among 
sports competitors by subjecting possessors of a plethora of steroid precursor products—openly 
sold in US health food stores until January 
2005—to arrest and prosecution. The law, passed 
by Congress in 2004, was an expansion of anti- 
steroid legislation passed in 1990 and demon-
strates the evolution of government regulation in 
this area. 
1.8.1     Anabolic Steroid Control Act 
of 1990 
 During the mid-1980s, reports of the increasing 
use of anabolic steroids in organized sports, 
including a purported “silent epidemic” of high 
school steroid use, came to the attention of 
Congress. When Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson 
tested positive for the steroid stanozolol (popu-
larly known as Winstrol) at the 1988 Seoul 
Olympics and was stripped of his gold medal, 
the ensuing media frenzy galvanized the US 
Congress into action. Between 1988 and 1990, 
Congressional hearings were held to determine 
whether the Controlled Substances Act should be 
amended to include anabolic steroids [ 31 ]. 
Signiﬁ  cantly, medical professionals and repre-
sentatives of regulatory agencies (including the 
FDA, DEA, and National Institute on Drug 
Abuse) testiﬁ  ed  against   the proposed amend-
ment to the law. Even the American Medical 
Association opposed it, maintaining that steroid 
abuse does  not  lead to the physical or psychologi-
cal dependence required for scheduling under the 
Controlled Substances Act [ 32 ]. However, any 
“psychologically addictive” properties of ste-
roids or public health dangers seemed to be sec-
ondary considerations to Congress. Most of the 
witnesses at the hearings were representatives 
from competitive athletics whose testimony, and 
apparently Congress’s main concern, focused on 
the purported need for legislative action to solve 
an athletic “cheating” problem [ 33 ]. 
 Congress passed the Anabolic Steroid 
Control Act of 1990 [ 34 ], criminalizing the pos-
session of anabolic steroids without a valid 
prescription. This was accomplished by amend-
ing Title 21 of the United States Code (U.S.C.) 
§ 812(c), which contains the initial schedules of 1 Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition

12
controlled substances [ 35 ]. Anabolic steroids 
were listed under subsection (e) of Schedule 
III. The law placed steroids in the same legal 
class as barbiturates, ketamine, LSD precursors, 
and narcotic painkillers such as Vicodin. To this 
day, anabolic steroids remain the only hormones 
in the schedules. 
 Once the law became effective, in 1991, mere 
unlawful possession of any amount of anabolic 
steroids, even without any intent to sell or distrib-
ute, became a federal crime [ 36 ]. A conviction is 
punishable by a term of imprisonment of up to 1 
year and/or a minimum ﬁ  ne of $1,000; and prior 
state or federal drug convictions increase the pos-
sible sentence. Unlawful steroid distribution or 
possession with intent to distribute became pun-
ishable by up to 5 years in prison for a ﬁ  rst 
offender or 10 years for a prior drug offender [ 37 ]. 
 The 1990 law listed only 27 compounds, along 
with their salts, esters, and isomers [ 38 ]. In the-
ory, however, there are hundreds or even thou-
sands of anabolic steroidal compounds—many of 
which might enhance athletic performance—that 
could be created in laboratories and offered for 
human use. By the early part of the past decade, 
some of these substances were being openly mar-
keted as performance-enhancing dietary supple-
ments. Called “prohormones” or in some cases 
“prosteroids,” these products were frequently 
metabolic precursors to testosterone or other 
listed anabolic steroids. Prosecution of those 
responsible for selling these compounds—
including androstenedione, norandrostenedione, 
norandrostenediol, 1-testosterone, and 
4-hydroxytestosterone—was hampered by the 
absence of these compounds from the list [ 39 ].  
1.8.2     Anabolic Steroid Control Act 
and DASCA 
 Although dietary supplements have never been 
embraced by anti-doping agencies, prohormone 
supplements were of particular concern, present-
ing at least four problems beyond any perceived 
health issues. First, by their very nature and 
design, they deﬁ  ed traditional sports values: They 
were pills that might give the player who swallo wed them a chemically induced advantage over the 
player who did not. Second, some of the steroid 
precursor products shared metabolites with 
banned anabolic steroids, raising the specter of 
false-positive tests [ 40 ]. Third, traditional drug 
screening might fail to detect some of the newer 
“designer” steroid conﬁ  gurations. Lastly, poor 
quality control at the manufacturing level pre-
sented the possibility that some dietary supple-
ment products might inadvertently contain 
steroid precursors by “cross-contamination,” 
resulting in false-positive tests for anabolic ste-
roids [ 41 ]. Amid the searing media attention to 
the issue, legislators publicly cried out for broader 
and stiffer steroid laws. Congress drafted bills 
and held hearings [ 42 ]. On October 22, 2004, 
President Bush signed into law the Anabolic 
Steroid Control Act of 2004, and it took effect in 
January 2005 [ 43 ]. The new law expanded the 
original steroid law that had been passed in 1990, 
also providing $15 million for educational pro-
grams for children regarding the dangers of ana-
bolic steroids and directing the US Sentencing 
Commission to consider revising federal guide-
lines to increase the penalties for steroid posses-
sion and distribution. 
 The law added 26 new steroid compounds to 
the previous list of substances that are legally 
deﬁ ned as “anabolic steroids” and classiﬁ  ed them 
as Schedule III controlled substances [ 44 ]. An 
exhaustive analysis of all the new compounds is 
beyond the scope of this chapter, but a few obser-
vations are in order. Some of these compounds 
were being marketed as dietary supplements, 
whereas others, such as bolasterone, calusterone, 
furazabol, and stenbolone, are actually early phar-
maceutical steroids that were missed in the origi-
nal federal law (note, however, that some states, 
among them California, did include some of these 
compounds in their own steroid laws). These 
dusty old compounds were likely added to the list 
after the highly publicized reemergence of norbo-
lethone (also added to the list) in an Olympic 
urine sample. Listed also is tetrahydrogestrinone, 
or THG, the so-called designer steroid that pre-
cipitated the BALCO scandal. Mere possession of 
any of these products is now a basis for a person’s 
arrest and prosecution as a federal drug criminal. R. Collins and D.S. Kalman

13
 The new law also changed the general requi-
site elements of an anabolic steroid. Ironically, no 
longer is there any requirement for evidence that 
an anabolic steroid is “anabolic” (i.e., that it pro-
motes muscle growth). It simply needs to be 
chemically and pharmacologically related to tes-
tosterone and either on the new list of substances 
or be any salt, ester, or ether of a substance on the 
list. The omission of the criterion of promoting 
muscle growth profoundly affects the process by 
which a newly created “designer” steroidal com-
pound may be added to the list. Even under the 
1990 law, the US Attorney General had the 
authority [ 45 ] to schedule additional or newly 
discovered steroidal compounds without going 
back to Congress for approval. However, under 
the old law, for a compound to qualify as an ana-
bolic steroid, the Attorney General was required 
to prove that the compound had anabolic proper-
ties. Now, for administrative scheduling, the 
Attorney General must only establish that the 
compound is chemically and pharmacologically 
related to testosterone [ 46 ]. 
 After a protracted battle on the issue among 
members of Congress, the law permits the con-
tinued sale of DHEA [ 47 ] as a dietary supple-
ment by adding it to the other hormonal 
substances explicitly excluded from scheduling 
(estrogens, progestins, and corticosteroids). The 
law also ﬁ  xes some of the mistakes and poor 
draftsmanship of the 1990 law [ 48 ]. 
 The new law retains the “catch-all” provision 
of the 1990 law concerning certain variations of 
the listed compounds and includes speciﬁ  c iso-
mers of a compound under that compound’s 
heading [ 49 ]. However, not all prohormone prod-
ucts fall under the new law, nor do all conceivable 
anabolic steroids. 
 The DEA tried to remedy the problem admin-
istratively, issuing a ﬁ  nal rule [ 50 ], effective 
January 2010, classifying three more compounds 
as anabolic steroids (boldione, desoxymethyltes-
tosterone, and 19-nor-4,9(10)-androstadienedi-
one, along with their salts, esters, and ethers). 
Then, the DEA last year published a notice of 
proposed rulemaking to add yet two more steroi-
dal compounds, prostanozol and methasterone 
(marketed as Superdrol), along with their salts, esters, and ethers, to the list. The ﬁ  nal rule on 
these two was issued on July 30, 2012 [ 51 ], effec-
tive August 29, 2012. 
 Recognizing the difficulties in attempting 
to administratively schedule new prohormones 
one by one, Congress has attempted to ﬁ  x this 
problem through yet another version of the law. 
The “Designer Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 
2014” (DASCA) was signed into law on 
December 18, 2014 [ 52 ]. DASCA lists 25 ste-
roidal compounds as newly criminalized ana-
bolic steroids. DASCA criminalizes very close 
relatives of explicitly listed steroids. It says 
that “a drug or hormonal substance (other than 
estrogens, progestins, corticosteroids, and dehy-
droepiandrosterone) that is not listed ... and is 
derived from, or has a chemical structure sub-
stantially similar to, 1 or more [listed] anabolic 
steroids [is considered an anabolic steroid] if ... 
[it] has been created or manufactured with the 
intent of [promoting muscle growth or having 
pharmacological effects like testosterone or] has 
been, or is intended to be, marketed or other-
wise promoted [to suggest it will promote mus-
cle growth or have pharmacological effects like 
testosterone].” In other words, derivatives and 
slight variations on compounds which are on the 
list can violate the law if they are made or if they 
are marketed, or intended to be marketed, to 
build muscle or have effects like testosterone.  
DASCA prohibits a compound from being a 
drug or hormonal substance under the law if it is 
“an herb or other botanical” or “a concentrate, 
metabolite, or extract of, or a constituent iso-
lated directly from, an herb or other botanical” 
or if it is a dietary ingredient (under DSHEA) 
and “is not anabolic or androgenic.” DASCA 
places the burden of proof upon anyone seeking 
to claim an exemption.  The law also introduces 
a new theory by which to prosecute steroid cases 
by making it a crime to import, export, manu-
facture, distribute, dispense, sell, offer to sell, or 
possess with intent to manufacture or sell any 
anabolic steroid, or any product containing an 
anabolic steroid, unless it bears a label clearly 
identifying the anabolic steroid by accepted 
(IUPAC) nomenclature.  This provision would 
apply to manufacturers who use deceptive or 1 Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition

14
“creative” ingredient labeling to conceal that the 
product is an anabolic steroid.  It would also 
apply to distributors and retailers who know, 
intend, or have reasonable cause to believe that 
the product contains an anabolic steroid.  The 
Attorney General will be able to add new 
“designer” compounds to the list of anabolic 
steroids with greater ease and speed (with only 
30 days’ notice for temporary scheduling). 
 It is important to recognize, however, that 
regardless of whether a steroidal substance is 
scheduled under the Controlled Substances Act, the 
marketing of these compounds as dietary ingredi-
ents is an “adulteration” or “misbranding” viola-
tion of the FDCA unless they comply with 
DSHEA. Numerous prosecutions have been insti-
tuted against prohormone marketers over the last 5 
years, resulting in criminal convictions of both 
companies and, in a few cases, their principals [ 53 ] .    
1.9     Adverse Event Regulation 
and Legislation 
 In response to growing criticism of the dietary sup-
plement industry, which is often inaccurately char-
acterized by mass media and sometimes the US 
government as “unregulated,” the 109th Congress 
passed the ﬁ  rst mandatory Adverse Event Reporting 
(AER) legislation for the dietary supplement indus-
try. On December 22, 2006, President Bush 
signed into law the Dietary Supplement and 
Nonprescription Drug Consumer Protection Act. 
This Act, which took effect on December 22, 2007, 
was sponsored by Senator Orrin Hatch (Utah) and 
cosponsored by Senators John Cornyn (Texas), 
Michael Enzi (Wyoming), Edward Kennedy 
(Massachusetts), Richard Durbin (Illinois), and 
Tom Harkin (Iowa). After much debate in Congress 
and input from the FDA, the American Medical 
Association (AMA), many of the major supple-
ment trade associations, and a host of others, the 
group ﬁ  nally agreed that the legislation was neces-
sary and the ﬁ  nal version was approved by all. In 
short, the Act requires that all “serious adverse 
events” regarding dietary supplements be reported 
to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
 An adverse event, as deﬁ  ned in section (a)(1) 
of this new law, is any health-related event  associated with the use of a dietary supplement 
that is adverse. A  serious   adverse event, as 
deﬁ ned in section (a)(2)(A), is an adverse event 
that results in (i) death, (ii) a life-threatening 
experience, (iii) inpatient hospitalization, (iv) a 
persistent or signiﬁ  cant disability or incapacity, 
(v) or a congenital anomaly or birth defect or (B) 
requires, based on reasonable medical judgment, 
a medical or surgical intervention to prevent an 
outcome described under subparagraph (A). 
 Once it is determined that a serious adverse 
event has occurred, the manufacturer, packer, or 
distributor of a dietary supplement whose name 
appears on the label of the supplement shall sub-
mit to the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services any report received of the serious 
adverse event accompanied by a copy of the label 
on or within the retail packaging of the dietary 
supplement. 
 This law strengthens the regulatory structure 
for dietary supplements and builds greater con-
sumer conﬁ  dence in this category of FDA- 
regulated products, thus ensuring and protecting 
Americans’ continued access to safe, beneﬁ  cial 
dietary supplements. Consumers have a right to 
expect that if they report a serious adverse event to 
a dietary supplement manufacturer, the FDA will 
be advised about it. The Council for Responsible 
Nutrition, Natural Products Association, American 
Herbal Products Association, and the Consumer 
Healthcare Products Association all support the 
AER legislation and have structured educational 
presentations for the dietary supplement industry 
in order to educate and implement programs for all 
companies to comply with this useful law.  
1.10     Contamination or 
Adulteration: A Need 
for Better Consumer 
Conﬁ  dence 
 We must ask ourselves: Can the dietary supplement/
nutrition industry do anything more to enhance the 
image and/or quality of the products being sold? Most 
health professionals would emphatically state that con-
ducting clinical trials that examine the products as they 
are intended to be used or as they are marketed to ensure 
that they deliver on their promise is well worthwhile. R. Collins and D.S. Kalman

15
 The research industry intersects with many 
other industries in more than one way. Research is 
used to plan marketing, create a product, and learn 
more about the product. Research can be used to 
delineate consumer demographics within the 
dietary supplement industry, to deﬁ  ne safety and 
efﬁ cacy, and for intellectual property means. 
However, a point to consider is whether there 
exists a responsibility on the part of a company 
that markets a product to research and learn the 
unknowns about their products. To paraphrase 
former US Secretary of Defense Donald 
Rumsfeld: Are you responsible for known- 
unknowns? Before we explore the potential 
answers, one must also wonder just who in the 
chain of product retailing is really responsible for 
the product dossier. Many companies purchase 
their ﬁ  nished products from other companies and 
simply relabel the products for their own market-
ing purposes (private labeling). Yet other compa-
nies source raw materials or sometimes branded 
ingredients from a supplier and then retail it as 
their own in the ﬁ  nished product. This is all per-
fectly legal and quite common in many industries. 
 To utilize a popular ingredient for the pur-
poses of this chapter, the example of blue-green 
algae is examined. Blue-green algae are often 
skimmed or collected from surface waters. 
Among the most popular site in the United States 
for cultivating blue-green algae is the Upper 
Klamath Lake in southern Oregon. In 1996, the 
state of Oregon noted that the Upper Klamath 
Lake was experiencing an extensive growth of 
 Microcystis aeruginosa   (a type of blue-green alga) 
that is known to produce hepatotoxins (microcys-
tins). A local public uproar occurred, and the 
local health departments decided to test the 
waters and blue-green algae dietary supplements 
(61 to be exact) for the presence of microcystins. 
Among the dietary supplements tested was spiru-
lina (15 samples), which is also considered a 
blue-green alga and is not from the Upper 
Klamath Lake. The researchers established a 
“no-observed adverse effect level” for the pres-
ence of microcystins via animal data and guid-
ance from Health Canada along with the World 
Health Organization. The “tolerable human dose” 
was determined to be 0.04 μg/kg/day or 2.4 total μg for a 60 kg person. Most people who use these 
types of supplement ingest 2 g/day; thus, the safe 
dose of the hepatotoxin from blue-green algae 
was determined to be 1.0 μg/g of product. 
 The results of the study were surprising (and 
perhaps not well distributed among the compa-
nies that sell these types of dietary supplement). 
In general, the average microcystin level of the 
blue-green algae from this lake was found to be 
>2.15 μg/g of product (more than double the 
“safe” limit). Some samples tested were from the 
same lot (meaning that three bottles of product 
were purchased from the same lot), and the varia-
tion within the same lot from bottle to bottle 
ranged from <30 to 99 %. This indicates that a 
wide variation and potential for this particular 
hepatotoxin exists within this class of dietary 
supplements harvested from this region. The spi-
rulina dietary supplements did not contain any 
serious amounts of hepatotoxins. 
 The exposure to high levels of microcystins is 
known to disrupt liver function and can result in 
intrahepatic hemorrhage as well as hypovolemic 
shock; less is known about the risks of exposure 
to low levels of this hepatotoxin over time. In ani-
mals, chronic exposure to low doses of this hepa-
totoxin is correlated with tumor progression 
(liver cancer). The blue-green algae often har-
vested for dietary supplements are harvested dur-
ing the bloom when microcystins in the surface 
water are at their maximum. Because spirulina is 
grown under controlled conditions, the contami-
nation risk is less likely. Blue-green algae are 
harvested from the surface waters; therefore, the 
microcystins contained therein are known also to 
contain neurotoxins that are produced from 
cyanotoxins. 
 Under DSHEA, it is the marketer’s responsi-
bility to ensure the safety of the dietary supple-
ment being retailed to the public. It appears that 
the most common “adverse effect” associated 
with blue-green algae supplements is gastrointes-
tinal disturbance and that this side effect is some-
times interpreted by the industry to be 
“detoxiﬁ  cation.” There are no known cases in the 
FDA database of serious AERs regarding blue- 
green algae. Once the appearance of microcystin 
hepatotoxin in surface water and in blue-green 1 Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition

16
algae dietary supplements became known, some 
states have enacted public health measures 
(Vermont and Oregon). 
 It may be wholly possible that every company 
in the product distribution chain, from the origi-
nal raw material supplier through the wholesalers 
and distributors (with the possible exception of 
the retail store outlet selling other companies’ 
brands), should conduct safety studies [ 54 ,  55 ]. 
These safety studies might run the gamut from 
animal toxicity surveillance all the way to human 
safety studies. In addition, the safety dossier may 
include laboratory analysis for the presence of 
known carcinogens, adulterated medications, and 
other standard safety parameters. Perhaps, it is 
the responsibility of the raw material company 
and the ﬁ  nished goods retailer to know directly 
with ﬁ  rst-hand evidence that their product is safe 
from known agents that can negatively affect the 
heart, kidneys, liver, and so on. This is where it is 
important for both types of company to employ 
the services of a ﬁ  rm or in-house individual to 
create a dossier (“Product Master File”) that has 
direct and/or third-party peer-reviewed published 
science denoting the safety of the ingredient and 
to contract with a laboratory—either private or at 
a university—to do ﬁ  rst-hand product safety 
studies. Companies that do all of this can feel 
comfortable that they have directly satisﬁ  ed the 
safety aspects of DSHEA for their products; con-
sumers should feel more conﬁ  dent as well. It is 
true that unknown safety issues may still be lurk ing; 
however, a company that is responsible in doing 
its due diligence by having a complementary ﬁ  le 
on safety compiled from third-party science and 
direct “owned” science is taking the steps that the 
public should expect members of the sports nutri-
tion supplement industry to take.  
1.11     Substantiation 
from the Perspective 
of Research 
 If you were set up on a blind date or better yet get 
involved in online dating and were told that the 
person who you will be meeting for drinks was 
six foot two and in decent physical shape and had 
brown hair and hazel eyes, but when you got to the club you saw no such person, would you 
wonder what was going on? You ﬁ  nd the club just 
ﬁ ne; it is located where he said it would be; the 
music is just as cool as you thought it would be; 
and then a man taps you on the shoulder, says 
your name (“Hi Staci, nice to meet you!”). You 
stare at him wondering, “Who are you?” Finally 
he says his name and thanks you for meeting him. 
He compliments your attire and perfume and 
notes that your drink of choice is one of his favor-
ites as well. Still, you remember the online pic-
ture you saw of him, the details of his height, 
build, even the type of work that he said he did. 
So why does he not appear as well as he should? 
Why is not the real thing (the guy)  substantiating   
the claims he made about himself in his online 
dating proﬁ  le? Do you think he was fudging to 
hedge his bet? To perhaps increase the likelihood 
he could  make the sale  ? 
 The scenario occurs not only socially but in 
business as well. For example, years ago you 
could go to a used car lot and test-drive any car 
there. The car would start, roar even; however, 
after you plunked down your money for the vehi-
cle of your temporary dreams, the car would start 
to stutter and often not even start. After an almost 
epidemic of bad cars being sold, many states 
enacted laws to protect the car buyers—known as 
“lemon laws.” The typical scenario encompasses 
a car being test-driven and enjoyed for its suppos-
edly superior strength and looks that just does 
not pan out to have the “muscle” you expected. 
Simply put, the advertising was not  substanti ated . 
Can you think of other industries that may also 
need a “lemon law”?  
1.12     Advertising 
 Imagine you read an advertisement for a dietary 
supplement that stated “other natural supple-
ments appear to treat only 15 %, or one type of 
pain.” Would you then believe that the supple-
ment ad is implying that the particular product 
being promoted treats or is useful for  all  types of 
pain? Because a product is being directed or sold 
to consumers, should it not have direct research 
demonstrating support for its marketing claims? 
In the case of comparing one product versus R. Collins and D.S. Kalman

17
 others for a speciﬁ  c effect, once a speciﬁ  c effect 
is mentioned there is a further implication that 
substantiation must exist. A lawyer or even a reg-
ulatory agency might say that the advertisement 
is playing fast and loose with the scientiﬁ  c record. 
 Another example of a common advertisement 
that we all see in the major periodicals and trade 
journals is for a product purported to “reduce 
stress, improve sleep quality, diminish PMS, 
enhance mental sharpness, and reduce negative 
side effects of caffeine.” This product is popular; 
in fact, it is a branded ingredient in many prod-
ucts. The studies on the branded ingredient have 
been carried out mostly in Japan, with few having 
been conducted in the United States. One may 
wonder if studies carried out in a foreign land, on 
people who may have genotypes and phenotypes 
different from those in the typical US population, 
would yield the same results here. In other words, 
does the research  substantiate   the advertising 
claims that are made in the US market? The cur-
rent Guidance for Substantiation released by the 
FDA in December 2008 addresses this very issue. 
In fact, the FDA indicates that foreign studies 
may not have equivalence for US substantiation 
but will be considered as part of the portfolio. 
This is surely something that must be a consider-
ation for any dietary supplement company, and 
thus some motivation to organize a clinical trial 
platform is there. It is also a factor that consum-
ers should consider when reading supplement 
marketing materials [ 56 – 59 ].  
1.13     Is There Legal Precedence? 
 In January 2002, the FDA issued guidance 
regarding claims and compliance guidelines for 
dietary supplements. According to the Guidance 
for Industry Reg arding Structure/Function Claims, 
claims can be made on or for dietary supplements 
if you have substantiation that the claims are 
truthful and not misleading. The substantiation 
must be in place prior to the claim being made; 
and, in fact, the FDA is to be notiﬁ  ed within 30 
days of ﬁ  rst marketing the product. So although 
there is clear guidance regarding what constitutes 
a structure/function claim (for more information, 
see the set of 10 criteria in section 101.93(g) of Title 21 Code of Federal Regulations), it appears 
from the above two product advertisement exam-
ples that these laws are not being followed. 
Section 101.93(g) of Title 21 contains guidance 
regarding claims, and this section keys in on dis-
ease or symptom claims, implied claims, and 
much more. This is of utmost importance because 
the document contains clear guidance regarding 
what a company could say or how a company 
could structure the label, advertisements, and 
other product-supportive literature when market-
ing the product. 
 However, the lack of clarity as to what consti-
tutes substantiation for a claim is a concern. For 
example, if you had one small-scale pilot open- 
label study on what you considered the key ingre-
dient (the “active”) in your product and the small 
study found efﬁ  cacy of that ingredient, is this 
enough substantiation on which to base advertis-
ing claims? Or think about a situation in which 
you have a single-ingredient product, and studies 
on that ingredient have already been published in 
decent scientiﬁ  c journals and in the United States. 
Would this be considered substantiation? In this 
case, the answer appears to be that the substantia-
tion of prior “third party” (borrowed science, if 
you will) is valid if the product that you sell has 
the same exact dosage and quality of the studies 
on which you are basing your claims. In other 
words, if there are ﬁ  ve studies on “product X” 
and in those studies the ingredient is dosed at 
250 mg three times per day but you decide to sell 
it at 100 mg for twice per day usage, the pub-
lished science does not support your claims. 
 The FTC has announced its intention to be 
more active in policing the advertising of weight 
loss products. In fact, the FTC’s publication  Gut 
Check: A Reference Guide for Media on Spotting 
False Weight Loss Claims   detailed the types of 
claims that the agency believes to be almost 
impossible to substantiate. The FTC was granted 
this power in the Federal Trade Commission Act 
by the simple words within the Act that note the 
prohibition of “unfair or deceptive acts or prac-
tices.” It is clear that deceptive claims are those 
that are misleading or false in some way because 
facts are misstated or omitted or important infor-
mation was not disclosed [ 60 – 62 ]. Even if “puff-
ery” is used in an advertisement, it can be 1 Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition

18
considered deceptive if substantiation for the 
basis of the claim is not real or valid. There are 
many other areas that the FTC and FDA consider 
when evaluating if an advertisement (of any 
form) is valid, and these parameters should not be 
discarded. However, one should be cognizant of 
the FTC advertising and substantiation policy 
(known as the “substantiation doctrine”) that was 
ﬁ rst enacted in 1972 and then further articulated 
in 1984. Within the FTC’s actions, the use of the 
“Pﬁ zer factors” in noting if a claim is  substantiated 
is typically used [ 63 ]. The factors evaluating sub-
stantiation include (1) type of product, (2) type of 
claim, (3) the beneﬁ  ts of a truthful claim, (4) the 
cost/feasibility of developing substantiation, (5) 
consequences of a false claim, and (6) the amount 
of substantiation that experts in the ﬁ  eld believe 
is reasonable. Did you know that the FTC’s 
experts have stated that weight loss beyond 1 
pound per week without dieting or exercise 
should be considered scientiﬁ  cally not feasible? 
 In new FTC cases, the agency appears to be 
attempting to redeﬁ  ne “competent and reliable 
scientiﬁ  c evidence” through consent decrees. In 
an action involving POM Wonderful in 2013, the 
standard suggested by FTC is two randomized, 
well-controlled, human clinical trials [ 64 ]. At 
present, this is not the law and only applies to 
these companies, but we may see a move toward 
a broader application of this standard. The FTC 
requires that companies identify all express and 
implied claims that the advertisement conveys 
to consumers. Once these claims are identiﬁ  ed, 
the scientiﬁ  c evidence is assessed to determine 
whether there is adequate support for those 
claims. Companies are barred from conveying 
other claims beyond those expressly stated. As a 
result, an advertiser is equally responsible for the 
claims stated as well as those implied in the ad. 
Additionally, an advertisement is considered 
deceptive if it fails to disclose certain informa-
tion. Advertisers are required to disclose infor-
mation if it is material in light of representations 
made or suggested by the ad. This also applies in 
situations where material would alter the way in 
which consumers would ordinarily use the 
 product [ 65 ].  1.14     The Cost of Nontruth 
 Although the FTC has not clearly deﬁ  ned what 
constitutes substantiation, it has provided a global 
overview of how the agency analyzes marketing 
claims. In addition, the FDA along with the FTC 
points to a 1994 ruling as related to weight loss 
claims that states that at least two well-designed 
randomized clinical trials are needed to support 
weight loss and appetite suppressant claims. 
Because both the FDA and FTC point to this 
1994 ruling, we now have some speciﬁ  c guidance 
as to what constitutes substantiation from the 
perspective of the amount of clinical trials needed 
for claims support [ 66 ]. 
 Companies that have run afoul of either the FTC 
or FDA guidelines for advertising and marketing 
have been pursued in courts for their  private actions 
and have paid ﬁ  nancially. Fines appear to have 
ranged from the cost of consumer redress to out-
right ﬁ  nes payable to the respective agency. In a 
recent case, the manufacturer and subsequent 
retailer of one popular weight loss supplement paid 
$100,000 to the FTC and consented to not advertise 
any weight loss supplements that did not have sub-
stantiation (not all parties in this suit have settled 
with the FTC). In another FTC action, one com-
pany touting an oral growth hormone product paid 
the FTC $485,000 for consumer redress with a bal-
loon clause of $5.9 million if the individual violates 
the consent order. Two other companies who also 
marketed oral growth hormone products have con-
sented to pay the FTC up to $20 million dollars for 
their unsubstantiated marketing claims. In addition 
to the $20 million dollar notation, the companies 
and ofﬁ  cers named in the FTC action may have to 
pay up to an additional $80 million dollars if the 
FTC ﬁ  nds that they misrepresented their personal 
and corporate ﬁ  nances. The consent order notes 
that substantiation is needed for claims and that the 
defendants have agreed to acquire the proper sub-
stantiation for future products they wish to retail. 
Do you think that with the possibility of losing 
$100 million dollars, this company will spend the 
money on studies to support their marketing? The 
FTC has been very active over the past few years, 
and it appears that they are more active than ever in R. Collins and D.S. Kalman

19
enforcing the laws regarding misleading advertis-
ing and substantiation [ 67 – 71 ]. This should be 
motivation enough for any dietary supplement 
company to learn and to conduct themselves in the 
right manner. In the big picture, because research 
and development is tax- credible (IRS Codes 41 and 
174), why not spend the money now rather than 
paying ﬁ  nes and facing possible disbarment from 
the industry and, heaven forbid, jail time later for 
being guilty of unsubstantiated marketing claims?  
1.15     Conclusion 
 As we have seen, after a decade of quietude, recent 
Congressional legislation and FDA regu latory 
actions have targeted sports and ﬁ  tness supple-
ments, banning some products and criminalizing 
others. The future may yet see additional regulatory 
efforts, or even legislative initiatives, as the market 
continues to evolve. Although the rules and regula-
tions set forth by the Federal Trade Commission 
and the Food and Drug Administration were 
designed with the best intentions, the role that polit-
ical pressure and potential lobbying by other indus-
tries plays in the enforcement of these rules and 
regulations cannot be ignored. Part of the problem 
lies with the industry itself, which could assist in 
uplifting the perception of sports supplements by 
creating a structured “self-policing” policy to ensure 
product purity and quality. Meanwhile, despite cer-
tain governmentally imposed limitations, sports 
nutrition supplements will likely continue to grow 
in popularity. The Internet has provided consumers 
with access to a wealth of information to research 
dietary supplements from a multitude of perspec-
tives conveniently, helping individuals to make 
more informed decisions. Millions of members of 
the consuming public continue to enjoy the right to 
decide for themselves whether to take a wide vari-
ety of dietary supplements.     
   References 
    1.   Pub. L. No. 75–717, 52 Stat. 1040 (1938) [codiﬁ  ed as 
amended 21 U.S.C. 301 et seq. (1994)].  
    2 .     Id. , citing Senate Report No. 103–410, 103d Congress, 
2d Session, Committee on Labor and Human 
Resources (October 8, 1994), at page 16.      3 .     Id. , citing Senate Report No. 103–410, at page 22.  
    4.   Provided that the Secretary then initiates on-the- 
record rulemaking to afﬁ  rm or withdraw the declara-
tion. See 21 U.S.C. § 342(f)(1).  
    5.   21 U.S.C. § 331(a) and (v).  
    6.   21 U.S.C. §§ 342(f)(1), 350b(a).  
    7.   21 U.S.C. § 342(f)(1)(A).  
    8.   21 U.S.C. § 333(a)(1).  
    9.   21 U.S.C. § 333(a)(2).  
    10.   A “dietary ingredient” may be a vitamin, a mineral, an 
herb or other botanical, an amino acid, a dietary sub-
stance for use by man to supplement the diet by 
increasing the total dietary intake, or a concentrate, 
metabolite, constituent, extract, or combination of any 
of these. See 21 U.S.C. 321 (ff)(1).  
    11.   21 U.S.C. § 350b(d).  
    12.   21 U.S.C. § 350b(a).  
    13.   See FDA, Center for Food Safety & Applied 
Nutrition (CFSAN), New dietary ingredients in 
dietary supplements. Available at   http://www.fda.gov/
food/dietarysupplements/ucm109764.htm    ; see also, 
21 CFR § 190.6.  
    14.   “To date, we have not published guidance deﬁ  ning 
the speciﬁ  c information that the submission must 
 contain. Thus, you are responsible for determining 
what  information provides the basis for your conc-
lusion.” FDA, CFSAN, New Dietary Ingredients 
in Dietary Supplements, archived at   http://archive.
today/XyhTR    .  
    15.   FDA, CFSAN, Draft guidance for industry: dietary 
supplements: New dietary ingredient notiﬁ  cations and 
related issues. Available at   http://www.fda.gov/food/
guidanceregulation/guidancedocumentsregulatoryin-
formation/dietarysupplements/ucm257563.htm      
    16.   Id.  
    17.   Natural Products Insider, Senators Hatch, Harkin Call 
for NDI Guidance Redo. Available at   http://www.natu-
ralproductsinsider.com/news/2012/01/senators-hatch- 
harkin-call-for-ndi-guidance-redo.aspx      
    18.   FDA, CFSAN, 95S-0316: 75-Day premarket notiﬁ  cations 
for new dietary ingredients. Available at   http://www.
fda.gov/ohrms/dockets/dockets/
95s0316/95s0316.htm      
    19.   FDA, CFSAN, FDA issues regulation prohibiting sale 
of dietary supplements containing ephedrine alkaloids 
and reiterates its advice that consumers stop using 
these products. Available at   http://www.fda.gov/
NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnouncements/2004/
ucm108242.htm      
    20.   FDA, CFSAN, DMAA in dietary supplements. 
Available at   http://www.fda.gov/food/dietarysupple-
ments/qadietarysupplements/ucm346576.htm      
    21.    Id .  
    22.   FDA, CFSAN, HHS launches crackdown on products 
containing andro. Available at   http://www.fda.gov/
newsevents/newsroom/pressannouncements/2004/
ucm108262.htm      
    23.   See, e.g., FDA, CFSAN, Scientiﬁ  c ﬁ tness androstene-
dione warning letter. Available at   http://www.fda.gov/
ICECI/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/
ucm170182.htm      1 Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition

20
    24.   FDA, CFSAN, 95S-0316: 75-day premarket notiﬁ  cations 
for new dietary ingredients. Available at   http://www.fda.
gov/ohrms/dockets/dockets/95s0316/95s0316.htm      
    25.   Siegner W. FDA’s actions on ephedra and androstene-
dione: understanding how they erode the protections 
of DSHEA. Paper presented at FDLI’s 47th Annual 
Conference, April 2004.  
    26.   Johnson SK, Lewis PE, Inskeep EK. Steroids and 
cAMP in follicles of postpartum beef cows treated 
with norgestomet. J Anim Sci 1991;69:3747–3753. 
Braden TD, King ME, Odde KG, Niswender 
GD. Development of preovulatory follicles expected 
to form short-lived corpora lutea in beef cows. J 
Reprod Fertil 1989;85:97–104. Wise TH, Caton D, 
Thatcher WW, Lehrer AR, Fields MJ. Androstenedione, 
dehydroepiandrosterone and testosterone in ovarian 
vein plasma and androstenedione in peripheral arterial 
plasma during the bovine oestrous cycle. J Reprod 
Fertil 1982;66:513–518.  
    27.   Margolis M. Dietary supplements: caveat athlete. 
Available at   http://www.law.uh.edu/healthlaw/per-
spectives/Food/980910Dietary.html      
    28.   FDA, CFSAN, New dietary ingredients in dietary 
supplements. Archived at   http://archive.today/XyhTR      
    29.   See FDA, CFSAN, Unlimited nutrition warning letter. 
Available at   http://www.fda.gov/ICECI/Enforcement
Actions/WarningLetters/ucm225605.htm      
    30.   See, e.g., Oliveira v. United States Anti-Doping 
Agency, Court of Arbitration for Sport, CAS 
2010/A/2107, available at   http://www.usada.org/
uploads/oliveiraCAS.pdf    ; United States Anti-
Doping Agency (USADA), Supplement Red Flags, 
available at   http://www.usada.org/uploads/redﬂ  ag-
spdf.pdf    ; USADA, Supplement 411: The Anti-
Doping Authority’s Dilemma, available at   http://
www.usada.org/supplement411/supplement-
dilemma/anti-doping- authoritys-dilemma    ; 
Christopher Chavez, Asafa Powell Suspended, av ail-
able at   http://www.ﬂ  otrack.org/coverage/251077-News-
from-the-Track- and-Field-World/article/26098-
Asafa-Powell-suspended#.U1lmg2dOUpF      
    31.   See generally, Legislation to Amend the Controlled 
Substances Act (Anabolic Steroids): Hearings on 
H.R. 3216 Before the Subcomm. on Crime of the 
House of Representatives Comm. on the Judiciary, 
100th Cong., 2d Sess. 99, July 27, 1988; Steroids in 
Amateur and Professional Sports—The Medical and 
Social Costs of Steroid Abuse: Hearings Before the 
Senate Comm. on the Judiciary, 101st Cong. 1st Sess 
736, April 3 and May 9, 1989; Abuse of Steroids in 
Amateur and Professional Athletics: Hearings Before 
the Subcomm. on Crime of the House Comm. on the 
Judiciary, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. 92, March 22, 1990; 
Hearings on H.R. 4658 Before the Subcomm. on 
Crime of the House Comm. on the Judiciary, 101st 
Cong., 2 nd Sess. 90, May 17, 1990.  
    32.   Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 812(b), a substance in 
Schedule III is to be placed there if: (A) the drug or 
other substance has a potential for abuse less than 
the drugs or other substances in schedules I and II; (B) the drug or other substance has a currently 
accepted medical use in treatment in the United 
States; and (C) abuse of the drug or other substance 
may lead to moderate or low physical dependence or 
high psychological dependence.  
    33.   John Burge, Legalize and regulate: a prescription for 
reforming anabolic steroid legislation, 15 Loy. L.A. 
Ent. L.J., 33, 45 (1994).  
    34.   Pub. L. No. 101–647, Sec. 1902, 104 Stat. 4851 (1990).  
    35.   Revised schedules are published in the Code of Federal 
Regulations, Part 1308 of Title 21, Food and Drugs.  
    36.   21 U.S.C. § 844.  
    37.   21 U.S.C. § 841(b)(1)(D).  
    38.   For a comprehensive examination of the 1990 steroid 
legislation,  see  this co-author’s treatise, Legal Muscle: 
Anabolics in America (2002).  
    39.   Androstenedione or “andro,” a precursor to the sex 
hormone testosterone, achieved national notoriety in 
1998 when a bottle of the pills was spotted in the 
locker of St. Louis Cardinals slugger Mark McGwire.  
    40.   Norsteroid prohormones, for example, can result in a 
positive test for nandrolone because both nandrolone 
and the norsteroid prohormones give rise to the uri-
nary excretion of the metabolites norandrostenedione 
and norandrostenediol.  
    41.   The problem of positive doping results from cross- 
contamination made national headlines when U.S. 
bobsledder Pavle Jovanovic was disqualiﬁ  ed from the 
Salt Lake City Olympics for a test result he blamed on 
a cross-contaminated protein powder supplement and 
when research conducted at an IOC-accredited drug 
testing laboratory in 2002 found that 94 of the 634 
samples contained substances not listed on the label 
that would trigger positive drug tests.  
    42.   Examples: Anabolic Steroid Penalties: Hearings on 
H.R. 3866 Before the Subcomm. on Crime of the 
House of Representatives Comm. on the Judiciary, 
108th Cong., 2 nd Sess., March 16, 2004; 
Consolidating Terrorist Watchlists: Hearings on H.R. 
3866 Before the Subcomm. on Crime, Terrorism, and 
Homeland Security, House of Representatives Comm. 
On the Judiciary, 108th Cong., 2 nd Sess., March 25, 
2004; Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 2004: Hearings 
on S. 2195 Before the Senate Comm. on the Judiciary, 
108th Cong., 2 nd Sess., October 6th, 2004.  
    43.   Public L. No. 108–358; 118 Stat. 1661 (2004).  
    44.   The new compounds are androstanediol; androstanedi-
one; androstenediol; androstenedione; bolasterone; calus-
terone; *1-dihydrotestosterone (a.k.a. “1- testosterone”); 
furazabol; 13 β-ethyl-17 α- hydroxygon-4-en-3-one; 4-
hydroxytestosterone; 4-h ydroxy-19-nortestosterone; mest-
anolone; 17 α-methyl-3 β,17β-dihydroxy-5 α-androstane; 
17α-methyl-3 α,17β-dihydroxy-5 α-androstane; 
17α-methyl-3 β,17β-dihydroxyandrost-4-ene; 17 α-methyl-
4-hydroxynandrolone; methyldienolone; methyltrieno-
lone; 17 α-methyl-*1-dihydrotestosterone (a.k.a. “17α-methyl-
1-testosterone”); norandrostenediol; norandrostenedione; 
norbolethone; norclostebol; normethandrolone; stenbo-
lone; and tetrahydrogestrinone.  
    45.   21 U.S.C. § 811.  R. Collins and D.S. Kalman

21
    46.   Note that litigation may be required to explore what 
“pharmacologically related” means with respect to ste-
roidal compounds, including whether a steroid’s ana-
bolic capacity is inherent to its pharmacologic effect.  
    47.   DHEA, or dehydroepiandrosterone, is a steroid hor-
mone that serves as a metabolic precursor to the sex 
hormones estrogen and testosterone. It has become a 
popular dietary supplement among middle-aged and 
elderly consumers seeking improved vigor.  
    48.   The errors in the 1990 law were exposed by coauthor 
Collins in  Legal Muscle   (see endnote 38). However, at 
least one typographic error appears in the new law: 
13α-ethyl-17 α-hydroxygon-4-en-3-one (a demethyl-
ated version of norbolethone) should read as 13 β-ethyl-
17β-hydroxygon-4-en-3-one. A new bill [S. 893] was 
introduced on April 25, 2005 to ﬁ  x the problem (it also 
amends the chemical nomenclature for stanozolol).  
    49.   The deﬁ  nition of an anabolic steroid under the old law 
included, under subparagraph (xxviii), is “any salt, 
ester, or isomer of a drug or substance described or 
listed in this paragraph, if that salt ester, or isomer pro-
motes muscle growth.” The new law says, “any salt, 
ester, or ether of a drug or substance described in this 
paragraph.” Note that the reference to muscle growth 
in the old law has been omitted [from what is now, in 
the longer list, subparagraph (xlx) of the new law] and 
that the word “isomer” has been replaced by “ether.”  
    50.   Classiﬁ  cation of three steroids as schedule III ana-
bolic steroids under the controlled substances act, 74 
Fed. Reg. 63,603 (Dec. 4, 2009) (codiﬁ  ed at 21 C.F.R. 
pt. 1300). Available at   http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/
FR-2009-12-04/pdf/E9-28572.pdf      
    51.   Classiﬁ  cation of two steroids, prostanozol and meth-
asterone, as schedule III anabolic steroids under the 
controlled substances act, 77 Fed. Reg. 44,456 (July 
30, 2012) (codiﬁ  ed at 21 C.F.R. pt. 1300), available at 
(  http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2012-07-30/
pdf/2012-18495.pdf    ).  
    52.   Public L. No. 113-260 128 STAT. 2929 (2014).        
    53.   See, e.g., FDA, Ofﬁ  ce of Criminal Investigations, 
May 22, 2012: Bodybuilding.com, LLC and Jeremy 
DeLuca Plead Guilty in Federal Court to Violating 
FDCA. Available at   http://www.fda.gov/ICECI/
CriminalInvestigations/ucm305494.htm    .  
    54.    Gilroy DJ, et al. Assessing potential health risks from 
microcystin toxins in blue-green algae dietary supple-
ments. Environ Health Perspect. 2000;108:435–9.  
    55.   Department of Health & Human Services, Centers for 
Disease Control & Prevention, Facts about cyanobac-
teria & cyanobacterial harmful algal blooms. Available 
at   www.cdc.gov/hab/cyanobacteria/pdfs/facts.pdf      
    56.   FDA, CFSAN, Guidance for industry: substantiation 
for dietary supplement claims made under Section 
403(r) (6) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
Act. Available at   http://www.fda.gov/food/guidance-
regulation/guidancedocumentsregulatoryinformation/
dietarysupplements/ucm073200.htm         57.   FDA, CFSAN, Guidance for industry: structure/func-
tion claims, small entity compliance guide. Available 
at   http://www.fda.gov/Food/GuidanceRegulation/
GuidanceDocumentsRegulatoryInformation/
DietarySupplements/ucm103340.htm      
   58.   Correia EW. The federal trade commission’s regula-
tion of weight loss advertising claims. Food Drug Law 
J. 2004;59(4).  
    59.   Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Bureau of 
Consumer Protection Business Center, Dietary 
Supplements: an advertising guide for industry. 
Available at   http://www.business.ftc.gov/docu-
ments/bus09-dietary-supplements-advertising-guide-
 industry                        
    60.   FTC, gut check: a reference guide for media on spot-
ting false weight loss claims. Available at   http://www.
business.ftc.gov/documents/0492-gut-check-reference-
guide-media-spotting-false-weight-loss-claims      
   61.   15 USC 45(a)(1)(2000).  
    62.   FTC, FTC Policy Statement Regarding Advertising 
Substantiation, available at   http://www.ftc.gov/ftc- policy- 
statement-regarding-advertising- substantiation                ; see  In 
re  Thompson Medical Co., 104 F.T.C. 648 (1984), 
aff’d, 791 F.2d 189 (D.C. Cir. 1986).  
    63.    In re   Pﬁ zer, Inc., 81 F.T.C. 23 (1972).  
    64.    POM Wonderful LLC v. F .T.C  ., 894 F. Supp. 2d 40 
(2012).  
    65.   FTC, Bureau of Consumer Protection Business 
Center, Dietary supplements: an advertising guide for 
industry. Available at   http://www.business.ftc.gov/
documents/bus09-dietary-supplements-advertising-
guide- industry                        
    66.    In re  Schering Corp., 118 FTC 1030, 1123, 1127 (1994).  
    67.   FTC, FTC concludes case against marketers of xenad-
rine efx; court ruling requires ﬁ  nal defendant to accept 
settlement terms. Available at   http://www.ftc.gov/
news-events/press-releases/2009/04/ftc-concludes-case-
against-marketers-xenadrine-efx-court- ruling            
   68.   FTC, Florida man settles FTC charges of sending ille-
gal spam and making false “human growth hormone” 
product claims. Available at   http://www.ftc.gov/news- 
events/press-releases/2005/06/florida-man-
settles-ftc-charges-sending-illegal-spam- and-making      
   69.   FTC, FTC targets bogus anti-aging claims for pills 
and sprays promising human growth hormone bene-
ﬁ ts. Available at   http://www.ftc.gov/news-events/
press-releases/2005/06/ftc-targets-bogus-anti-aging-
claims-pills-and-sprays- promising            
   70.   FTC, FTC settles claims with marketers of FiberThin 
and Propolene. Available at   http://www.ftc.gov/news- 
events/press-releases/2005/06/ftc-settles-claims-
marketers-ﬁ  berthin-and-propolene      
    71.   FTC, defendants who deceptively marketed the hima-
layan diet breakthrough settle FTC charges. Available 
at   http://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press- releases/
2005/06/defendants-who-deceptively-marketed-
himalayan- diet-breakthrough          1 Effect of Government Regulation on the Evolution of Sports Nutrition

23 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_2      The Psychology 
of Supplementation in Sport 
and Exercise: Motivational 
Antecedents and Biobehavioral 
Outcomes 
           Shawn     M.     Arent       and     Rafer     S.     Lutz      
        S.  M.   Arent ,  PhD, CSCS*D, FACSM      ( *) 
  Department of Exercise Science & Sport Studies , 
 Rutgers University ,   70 Lipman Drive , 
 New Brunswick ,  NJ   08901-8525 ,  USA      IFNH Center for Health & Human Performance , 
 Rutgers University ,   New Brunswick ,  NJ   USA   
 e-mail: shawn.arent@rutgers.edu    
    R.  S.   Lutz ,  PhD (Deceased)                     2
  
Dr. Rafer Lutz Dedication     On May 23, 2012, we lost an incredible colleague and friend, 
Dr. Rafer S. Lutz, to mucosal melanoma at the age of 42. Rafer was one of the kindest and 
most thoughtful people we’ve had the good fortune to know. Not only was Rafer an excel-
lent researcher, but his dedication to the education of his students was second-to-none. He 
was one of those people about which no one ever had a bad word to say. Rafer and I became 
close friends in graduate school at Arizona State University. The many long hours in the lab 
were always made more entertaining when he was present, and I was proud to see the 
impact he eventually had on his colleagues at Baylor University, where he ultimately 
served as department chair in Health, Human Performance, and Recreation. Any time I run 
into his former colleagues, students, or friends, the fondness they each had for him is evi-
dent. Above all else, though, Rafer was a loving husband and father. He is survived by his 
wife, Lori, and his two sons, William and Carson. The memory of Rafer lives on in all of 
us who were fortunate to cross paths with him, and he will always remain close in our 
minds and hearts. In keeping with this idea, the chapter in this text on the Psychology of 


24
    Abstract  
  Research concerning the physiological and biobehavioral effects of 
supplements commonly used in sport or exercise settings has multiplied 
rapidly over the last decade. However, less attention has been directed to 
understanding the motivational pathways leading to sport and exercise 
supplement use. This chapter summarizes known usage rates for sport/ﬁ  t-
ness supplements and describes motivational theories and constructs 
which may be of use for understanding individuals’ use of these sub-
stances. In this respect, we contend that researchers should consider 
behavioral approaches, the theory of planned behavior, balance theory, 
achievement goal theory, social physique anxiety, and muscle dysmorphia 
as useful for developing an understanding of the psychological inﬂ  uences 
on supplement use. For some of the latter theories/constructs, research has 
already shown support for their explanatory abilities, whereas research is 
scant and the utility for understanding sport/exercise supplement use is yet 
to be determined for many of the theories. In addition to describing the 
motivation behind supplement use, this chapter summarizes the biobehav-
ioral effects of a select group of supplements commonly used to improve 
performance, ﬁ  tness, or health. Speciﬁ  cally, we consider psychobiological 
effects of caffeine, creatine,  Ginkgo biloba  , St. John’s wort, and omega-3 
fatty acids related to enhanced arousal, improved memory and cognition, 
enhanced brain function and protection, and reduced depression. There is 
promising initial evidence for the efﬁ  cacy of these compounds in produc ing 
favorable psychological outcomes, though certain shortcomings of many 
studies on these compounds must be taken into account before reaching 
deﬁ nitive conclusions.  
  Keywords  
  Attitudes      Norms      Persuasion      Goal orientations      Motivational climate    
  Body image      Creatine      Caffeine      Ginkgo      St. John’s wort      Fish oil  Supplementation was the last major project I worked on with Rafer before his untimely 
passing. The updated version of this chapter is dedicated to Rafer and his family. While we 
all miss him tremendously, the lasting impact he has had on us cannot be overstated. 
 Shawn M. Arent, Ph.D., CSCS*D, FACSM 
 Associate Professor, Rutgers University           
2.1         Introduction 
 Over the last decade, there have been numer-
ous high-proﬁ  le cases of athletes testing posi-
tive for performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) 
and claiming it was due to a tainted supple-
ment or examples of individuals having psy-
chotic episodes and ultimately attributing them to drug-supplement interactions (e.g., Terrell 
Owens). While there is considerable drama 
and attention surrounding such high-proﬁ  le 
cases, it does show some of the reason for con-
cern in a largely unregulated and sometimes 
poorly researched industry. As supplement use 
has grown in sport and exercise settings, it 
becomes increasingly important to understand 
the reasons for supplements use. Additionally, S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

25
while many supplements target physiological 
systems, it is important to understand that these 
systems impact behavior (and vice versa). Such 
interactions of biological processes and behav-
ior are termed biobehavioral effects and repre-
sent the intersection of the ﬁ  elds of physiology 
and psychology. 
 The growth of the overall supplement indus-
try over the past decade is startling. According to 
the 1994 congressional Dietary Supplement 
Health and Education Act, it was reported that 
there were an estimated 600 dietary supplement 
manufacturers in the United States producing in 
the neighborhood of 4,000 products [ 1 ]. The 
total annual sales of these products were esti-
mated to be at least $4 billion [ 1 ]. In 1998, this 
ﬁ gure had grown to $13.9 billion and by 2012 
equaled to $23.5 billion with an estimated annual 
increase of 5–7 % [ 2 ]. Anecdotally, it seems 
there are several motivations for this explosion 
in the use of supplements in sport and exercise—
the increase in overweight and obesity and the 
pursuit of an ideal body shape have likely 
spurred the growth of supplements purporting to 
aid weight loss, media portrayal of “ideal” body 
images for males may be causing adolescent and 
adult males to increase supplement use to 
increase their muscle size, and the ever-increas-
ing stakes in the sporting world seem to be caus-
ing athletes to continue to strive for new ways to 
gain an edge on the competition. 
 As an initial foray into the psychology of sup-
plementation, this chapter proposes to look at 
three questions: (1) what do we know about the 
prevalence of supplement use, particularly con-
sidering supplementation among athletic popula-
tions or among those trying to gain muscle mass 
or lose weight, (2) what accounts for the motiva-
tions causing the explosive growth in the sport 
and exercise/weight loss supplement industry, 
and (3) what do we know about psychobiological 
outcomes related to sport performance, ﬁ  tness, 
and health for a select group of supplements with 
purported biobehavioral effects? Reviewing the 
literature considering each of the latter three 
questions reveals some interesting research ﬁ  nd-
ings as well as signiﬁ  cant gaps in the body of 
knowledge. It is our hope that an initial review concerning supplement use in sport and exercise 
from a psychological perspective will serve as an 
impetus to further research allowing a better 
understanding of the reasons for sport and exer-
cise supplement use, their effects, and areas of 
potential concern.  
2.2     Review of Literature 
2.2.1     Deﬁ  nition of a Dietary 
Supplement 
 In the United States, a summary deﬁ  nition of 
dietary supplements as deﬁ  ned by the DSHEA of 
1994 [ 1 ] can be stated as “a product (other than 
tobacco) intended to supplement the diet that 
bears or contains one or more of the following 
dietary ingredients: (a) a vitamin, (b) a mineral, 
(c) an herb or other botanical, (d) an amino acid, 
(e) a dietary substance for use by man to supple-
ment the diet by increasing the total dietary 
intake, or (f) a concentrate, metabolite, constitu-
ent, extract, or combination of any ingredient 
described in clauses a, b, c, d, or e.” It should be 
noted, additionally, that any claims a manufac-
turer or individual makes about a supplement 
might change its classiﬁ  cation. Dietary supple-
ments claimed to cure, mitigate, or treat disease 
would be considered to be an unauthorized new 
drug rather than a supplement. Researchers have 
also differentiated “nonvitamin, nonmineral sup-
plements” (NVNM) as those primarily consisting 
of herbal, botanical, protein/amino acid, brewer’s 
yeast, and shark cartilage and a variety of other 
plant-based and nonplant dietary supplements 
such as enzymes and ﬁ  sh oil [ 3 ,  4 ]. Finally, in the 
arena of competitive sport speciﬁ  cally, it should 
be noted that there are both “accepted” and “ille gal/
banned” substances, including some supple ments. 
Making this distinction somewhat difﬁ  cult, 
various sport governing bodies do not necessar-
ily agree about which supplements should consti-
tute banned substances, with inconsistencies 
appearing between the IOC, WADA, USOC, and 
the NCAA [ 5 ]. 
 In an interesting quandary for the ﬁ  eld of 
 performance enhancement, many supplements 2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

26
marketed to athletes may contain banned 
 substances—either overtly or because of impuri-
ties in these  supplements. Geyer and colleagues’ [ 6 ] 
IOC-commissioned study examined nonhor-
monal supplements to determine the prevalence 
of anabolic–androgenic steroids (AAS) in these 
products not listed on the label. Researchers 
bought supplements from 215 suppliers in 13 dif-
ferent countries testing 634 nonhormonal supple-
ments. A meaningful percentage of the 
supplements (14.8 %) contained substances that 
would lead to a positive drug test. These results 
indicate that a proportion of supplements would 
be considered drugs; further, they would be con-
sidered drugs with potentially deleterious side 
effects. The difﬁ  culty for many athletes and the 
various sport governing bodies is that it is difﬁ  -
cult to determine which supplements may truly 
be supplements and which contain substances 
that would be considered drugs. 
 Despite the possibility for failed doping tests, 
athletes typically take supplements because they 
want an advantage over their competition. 
Supplement use should not be surprising consid-
ering that some athletes are willing to take ille-
gal/banned drugs to improve performance. Thus, 
it would appear that the desire for money, fame, 
and feelings of achievement associated with ath-
letic success are driving forces for the use of 
sport supplements. Yet not all athletes use sup-
plements, and some are extremely cautious about 
the substances they ingest. Perhaps there are 
more subtle psychological factors at work that 
should be considered. 
 Problems also abound for individuals who 
supplement in order to achieve added weight 
loss and/or muscle gain (or even improved recov-
ery post-workout) from their exercise pro grams. 
Products of dubious efﬁ  cacy are plentiful, and little 
is known about drug/supplement or supplement/
supplement interactions which may be hazardous 
to the user’s health [ 7 ,  8 ]. Substances such as 
brindleberry ( Garcinia cambogia/indica  ), capsa-
icin, caffeine,  L -carnitine, chromium  picolinate, 
and  Ginkgo biloba   have purported weight loss 
beneﬁ  ts; however, not all of these substances have 
research support in the published literature [ 9 ]. Considering a worldwide ongoing obesity 
 epidemic [ 10 ] and problems in particular in the 
United States, it is not surprising that many indi-
viduals are seeking new ways to lose weight. 
Supplements promise, though probably seldom 
deliver, a magic bullet of sorts—easy, hassle-free 
weight loss with little in the way of dietary sacriﬁ  ce. 
Motivation for users of weight loss supplements, 
however, is likely not simple or straightforward. 
A range of issues ranging from body image con-
cerns to obsessive tendencies may be important 
to consider.  
2.2.2     Prevalence of Supplement Use 
 There have been several large-scale surveys of 
supplement use among US citizens. The Slone 
Survey [ 11 ] used random digit dialing to survey 
2,590 US citizens to determine commonly used 
herbals/supplements (nonvitamin, nonmineral: 
NVNM) and vitamins and minerals. The ten most 
commonly used substances in these categories 
are reported in Tables  2.1  and  2.2 , respectively. 
Additionally, 14.0 % of individuals reported use 
of a herbal/supplement over the previous 7-day 
period. Popular reasons given for the use of 
herbal/supplements included health (16 %), 
arthritis (7 %), memory improvement (6 %), 
energy (5 %), and immune booster (5 %). Recent 
analysis of NHANES data from 2003 to 2006 [ 12 ] 
found that of the 18,758 individuals included in 
the analysis, 49 % reported supplement use, with 
multivitamins being the most commonly con sumed 
(33 %) followed by botanical supplements (14 %). 
Over 70 % of adults over 71 years indicated using 
at least one dietary supplement [ 12 ].
    Other large surveys have been conducted to 
examine supplement use and ﬁ  nd, generally, 
greater usage rates among older individuals, non-
obese, Caucasians, females, nonsmokers, physi-
cally active individuals, those with higher levels 
of educational attainment, as well as those with 
higher fruit and ﬁ  ber intake [ 3 ,  13 ,  14 ]. In a study 
of 1,000 university students, Perkin and col-
leagues [ 4 ] found that 26.3 % indicated use of a 
NVNM supplement and 16 % had used in the S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

   Table 2.1    Understanding the motives for supplement use in sport and exercise settings   
 Theory 
 Pertinent construct(s)  Expected relationship to supplement use  Research support 
 Behaviorism/operant conditioning 
  Positive 
reinforcement  Supplement use that leads to reward/praise 
should promote future use  No known  direct   support 
  Punishment  Supplement use leading to punishment/
sanction should reduce future use  Indirect support (success 
of doping sanctions) 
 Theory of planned behavior 
  Attitude  Attitudes that supplements are good/healthy 
should promote use  Supported w/ limited 
research 
 Subjective norm  Beliefs that others feel you ought (injunctive 
norm) to use or beliefs that others commonly 
do use (descriptive norm) should promote use  Supported w/ limited 
research 
 Perceived behavioral 
control  Perceptions that supplements are easy to use, 
available, or inexpensive should promote use  Supported w/ limited 
research 
 Balance theory 
 If subject likes a celebrity spokesperson 
promoting a supplement and perceives that 
celebrity approves of the supplement, the 
subject should be more willing to try the 
supplement as they should like it more (to 
achieve psychological balance)  Well supported 
generally; no known 
 direct   support 
 Achievement goal theory 
 Goal orientation  Individuals who have a high ego orientation 
for their sport would be expected to be more 
willing to use supplements, even if these 
supplements are potentially harmful  No known  direct   support 
 Motivational climate  Individuals within ego-promoting climates 
would be expected to be more willing to use 
supplements, even if these supplements are 
potentially harmful  No known  direct   support 
 Other constructs 
 Social physique 
anxiety  High social physique anxiety may promote 
supplement use in some circumstances  No known  direct   support 
 Muscle dysmorphia  Higher levels of muscle dysmorphia may 
promote supplement use  Supported w/ limited 
research 
   Table 2.2    Ten    most commonly used herbals/supplements in the United States: 1-week percentage prevalence by sex 
and age a    
 Rank  Herbal/supplement  Men  Women 
 Total  18–44 
years  45–64 
years  ≥65 years  18–44 
years  45–64 
years  ≥65 y 
 1  Ginseng  4  4  <1  2  5  2   3.3  
 2   Gingko biloba   extract  <1  4  1  1  4  5   2.2  
 3   Allium sativum    <1  4  4  1  3  3   1.9  
 4  Glucosamine  <1  2  4  <1  5  4   1.9  
 5  St. John’s wort  <1  2  0  2  3  <1   1.3  
 6      Echinacea angustifolia    1  1  0  1  3  <1   1.3  
 7  Lecithin  <1  <1  1  1  3  1   1.1  
 8  Chondroitin  <1  1  1  0  3  2   1.0  
 9  Creatine  4  0  0  0  0  0   0.9  
 10   Serenoa repens    1  1  4  0  <1  0   0.9  
 Any use  12  17  11  10  23  14   14.0  
  Adapted from [ 11 ] 
  a Percentages weighted according to household size  

28
past. ginseng, echinacea, protein powder/amino 
acids, and  Ginkgo biloba   were the most fre-
quently used supplements. Reasons for use 
included to improve energy (61.2 %), to promote 
weight loss (38 %), to burn fat (36.1 %), to sup-
plement inadequate diet (35 %), to build muscle 
(27.8 %), and to relieve stress/improve mood 
(24.7 %). It appears the reasons for use in the 
 university population are more performance- and 
appearance-driven than the reasons for the gen-
eral US population, which are more health- 
focused [ 11 ]. 
  Sport Speciﬁ  c Use     Athletes undoubtedly account 
for a large portion of those who use dietary sup-
plements, and there are a variety of products that 
are marketed directly at competitive athletes. 
Sobal and Marquart’s [ 15 ] meta-analytic review 
of vitamin/mineral supplement use among ath-
letes reported an overall use rate of 46 %. They 
also found that elite athletes tended to more 
commonly take supplements than did college or 
high school athletes, and women used supple-
ments more often than men. Another conclusion 
was that some athletes take high doses that may 
lead to nutritional problems. Regarding other 
herbal or other agents (e.g., AAS), use rates 
widely vary depending on the sport population 
investigated or the deﬁ  nition of supplement. 
Froiland and colleagues [ 16 ] actually found use 
rates as high as 89 % in a survey of 115 male and 
88 female Division I athletes, with energy drinks 
being the most commonly consumed supplement 
(73 %) followed by calo rie replacement products 
(61.4 %), multivitamins (47.3 %), and creatine 
(37.2 %). In some studies, though, use rates are 
lower—often when investigating younger or less 
competitive athletes and when using a deﬁ  nition 
of supplement that excludes sports drinks and 
vitamins. Scoﬁ  eld and Unruh [ 17 ] found 22.3 % 
of adolescent athletes reported supplement use 
in a small sample in Nebraska. In their study, 
athletes deﬁ  ned supplements on their own terms 
and most did not consider sport drinks to be a 
supplement. Considering elite Canadian athletes 
 participating at the Atlanta and Sydney Olympics, 
respectively, prevalence rates of 69 % and 74 % 
were reported [ 18 ]. Though vitamin use was most common (58–66 %), nutritional supple-
ments were also commonly used (Atlanta, 35 % 
of men, 43 % of women; Sydney, 43 % of men, 
51 % of women) and typically consisted of cre-
atine and/or amino acid supplementation. 
Nutritional supplement use occurred most often 
in cycling (100 %) and swimming (56 %). Based 
on overall results, it appears that supplementa-
tion increases with competitive level of sport and 
is somewhat higher for female athletes.   
2.2.3     Motivational Theories Applied 
to Supplement Use 
 Examining the literature as a whole, it is well- 
established that supplement use is high among 
athletic populations and those who want to 
either build muscle or lose weight. What exist-
ing theoretical paradigms, however, might 
inform our future study of this area concerning 
reasons for use and potential abuse? To answer 
this question, it is perhaps best to consider three 
speciﬁ  c categories—supplement use to produce 
athletic performance beneﬁ  ts, supplement use to 
build muscle for aesthetic purposes or body 
image concerns, and supplement use to lose 
weight for aesthetic purposes, body image con-
cerns, or health. Each of the three reasons for use 
likely has different motivational underpin nings. 
Therefore, in our description of theoretical 
paradigms that may be applied to understand 
supplement use, we have tried to identify the 
areas where each theory may be particularly 
effective for understanding supplementation. 
Overall, it should be considered that there are 
likely to be multifaceted, overlapping motiva-
tions for supplement use. Table  2.3  gives an 
overview of psychological/motivational theo-
ries and constructs that may be related to sup-
plement use. As is obvious upon examination of 
this table, little direct inquiry has been con-
ducted to explain motivation to use supplements 
in sport and exercise settings.
   Certainly, there is a behavioristic explanation 
possible for the use of supplements in that ath-
letes’ use may lead to reward contingencies (e.g., 
more prize money) thus driving future behavior. S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

29
Similarly, supplements that build muscle or 
 promote weight loss could produce rewarding 
results. Also, there are undoubtedly social inﬂ  u-
ences at work considering that coaches, parents, 
athletic trainers, and peers have been reported as 
inﬂ uential to the decision to take supplements 
[ 17 ,  19 ,  20 ]. Finally, other extant motivational 
theories may be useful to predict supplement use 
and abuse. Most of these potential explanations 
have received limited research, if any, in the con-
text of supplement use, so our primary purpose is 
to describe how theory or previous research 
would predict the stated constructs’ explanatory 
ability and direct future inquiry to understand 
motivation for supplementation. 
  Operant Conditioning     If supplements work 
quickly and effectively to produce performance 
changes or body shape changes resulting in 
reward or praise, it is possible to use operant con-
ditioning as a means of explaining the choice to 
take supplements. Operant conditioning focuses 
on the manner in which our behavior and action 
are inﬂ  uenced by the outcomes that follow them 
[ 21 ]. Derived from the behavioristic research tra-
dition [ 22 ], the sum of ﬁ  ndings in this area would 
dictate that some outcomes/stimuli strengthen the 
behavior that preceded them, while others 
weaken the likelihood of the behavior that  preceded them. Outcomes or consequences that 
increase the likelihood of behavior are known as 
reinforcers, and those that decrease the likelihood 
of behavior are known as punishment. In the 
present context, prize money, praise from others, 
or rewards due to improved performance are rein-
forcers of the behavior to take supplements. 
However, it should be apparent that this theory 
demands that the reward is contingent upon 
 taking the supplement—in other words, the sup-
plement must work effectively and ostensibly. 
Additionally, it must likely work quickly in order 
to provide effective reinforcement of use. If it 
takes months to see the results, the behavior/
reward timeline may be too protracted to encour-
age future use, particularly in an age of instant 
gratiﬁ  cation. Otherwise, we must use other moti-
vational explanations to understand supplement 
use. Because most legal supplements likely 
would not produce dramatic sport performance 
gains, muscle mass gains, or weight loss results, 
perhaps the best explanation for use is found in 
other theories. Behavioristic explanations, how-
ever, might be very applicable considering the 
use of illegal substances such as steroid use.  
  Persuasion and Conformity     A set of ideas/
principles that might best explain supplement use 
across areas (performance enhancement, weight    Table 2.3    Ten most commonly used vitamins/minerals in the United States: 1-week percentage prevalence by sex and 
age a    
 Rank  Herbal/supplement  Men  Women 
 Total  18–44 
years  45–64 
years  ≥65 
years  18–44 
years  45–64 
years  ≥65 
years 
 1  Multivitamin  19  29  31  25  29  33   26.0  
 2  Vitamin E  3  18  14  4  19  19   10.0  
 3  Vitamin C  4  13  12  5  16  14   9.1  
 4  Calcium  3  4   7  6  19  23   8.7  
 5  Magnesium  1  2   5  2  6  5   3.0  
 6  Zinc  2  2   3  1  5  3   2.2  
 7  Folic acid  <1  3   4  2  3  4   2.2  
 8  Vitamin B 12   <1  2   2  2  3  3   2.1  
 9  Vitamin D  <1  <1   2  <1  5  7   1.9  
 10  Vitamin A  <1  3   2  <1  4  3   1.8  
 Any use  24  46  47  35  51  59   40.0  
  Adapted from [ 11 ] 
  a Percentages weighted according to household size. Numbers (excluding multivitamins) indicate prevalence of use in 
nonmultivitamin products  2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

30
loss, and muscle building) can be found examining 
research on persuasion and conformity to norms. 
Edwin Moses, one of the greatest hurdlers of all 
time, once estimated that use rate of illegal drugs 
in track and ﬁ  eld to be about 50 % at the elite 
level [ 23 ]. Such a statement is reﬂ  ective of a 
descriptive norm indicating what you believe 
others actually do. In an exercise setting, this 
would manifest in one’s belief that others com-
monly take weight loss supplements or muscle- 
building supplements. The power of such norms 
to inﬂ  uence behavior is well documented [ 24 – 26 ], 
and if supplement use is perceived as the norm, 
there will be social pressure to conform—even 
in the face of negative outcomes that might be 
due to use.  
 Among theories adopting the concept of nor-
mative inﬂ  uence on behavior, the  theory of 
planned behavior   (TPB) may be useful for 
understanding motivation to use supplements. 
This theory proposes the existence of three 
psychological constructs which are believed to 
inﬂ uence behavior through the mediator of 
intent: normative inﬂ  uences, attitude, and per-
ceived behavioral control (see Fig.  2.1 ) [ 27 ]. Within normative inﬂ  uences, it is important to 
consider what one believes concerning what oth-
ers feel you  ought   to do, known as the  injunctive 
norm  , in addition to the actual,  descriptive norm   
relating to what others do themselves [ 27 ,  28 ]. 
Attitudes pertain to the degree that a behavior is 
positively or negatively valued. Speciﬁ  cally, in this 
context, would taking supplements be considered 
“good”? Perceived behavioral control pertains to 
one’s beliefs about factors that might facilitate/
impede performance of a behavior. Factors such 
as cost and availability of supplements would be 
expected to inﬂ  uence percep tions of behavioral 
control. No known study has focused on supple-
ment use among athletes/exer cisers using this 
theory, though it has shown very good predic tive 
ability examining supplement use in other popu-
lations. In a study of 400 randomly selected women 
from the UK Women’ s Cohort Study including 
15,000 participants who completed variables 
pertinent to TPB constructs and supplement use, 
Conner and colleagues [ 28 ] found that intent very 
accurately predicted supplement use (82.9 % 
accuracy) and that attitude was the strongest 
predictor of intent, though subjective norm and 
  Fig. 2.1    The theory of planned behavior applied to sport/exercise supplement use. Adapted from [ 27 ]         S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

31
perceived behavioral control were also signiﬁ  cant 
predictors of intent. The latter three variables 
predicted an astonishing 70 % of variance in 
intent to use supplements. Certainly, these 
ﬁ ndings suggest that attitudes, normative beliefs, 
and perceptions of control are important corre-
lates of supplement use among women. What is 
not known, however, are the ultimate reasons for 
use in this sample (e.g., weight loss, health ben-
eﬁ ts, etc.). Future research examining the TPB’s 
predictive ability given different reasons for sup-
plement use may be informative as these reasons 
may moderate the relative association of these 
predictors with intent to use and actual supple-
ment use.  
 When trying to change attitudes about whether 
supplements are good or bad, it is likely that 
some individuals will be more persuasive than 
others. For example, individuals will be more 
persuasive if they are seen as trustworthy or hav ing 
pertinent expertise [ 29 ]. The supplement industry 
often uses exactly such a strategy to help market 
their products. University research and “expert” 
sport and exercise nutritionists are increasingly 
being used to support the efﬁ  cacy of perfor-
mance-enhancing, muscle-building, or weight 
loss supplements. While this is a wise strategy 
on the part of the supplement industry from an 
economic standpoint, consumers should also 
consider that a company may contract with mul-
tiple universities to test their product and only 
report the results of the positive outcomes in their 
advertisements. Such a practice should be viewed 
as unethical, yet this is certainly a possibility. 
In recent years, certain research labs have even 
garnered a reputation for somehow always pro-
ducing positive results for certain supplements. 
In some cases, these ﬁ  ndings run contrary to a 
majority of previous research. Even in the pub-
lished literature, there is likely to be a bias to the 
beneﬁ  ts of supplements as opposed to studies 
documenting no effects due to the ﬁ  le drawer 
problem in current scientiﬁ  c practice where sig-
niﬁ cant results are published more frequently than 
nonsigniﬁ  cant results [ 30 ,  31 ]. Scientists con-
ducting investigations in the area of supplements 
should attempt to publish nonsigniﬁ  cant and 
signiﬁ  cant ﬁ  ndings alike because of these issues.  Another theory that might inform persuasive 
efforts to effect attitude change is Heider’s [ 32 ] 
balance theory. According to this theory, people 
want to view the world in a consistent manner. In 
other words, if your favorite athlete has admitted 
using a controversial supplement but you do not 
generally approve of the use of performance- 
enhancing substances, you are likely to change 
either your opinion of the athlete or acceptability 
of substance use in order to achieve harmony of 
thought and action. In this manner, we might 
expect that overt or covert messages from well- 
liked or well-respected athletes that indicate 
their use of supplements will cause others to view 
use as acceptable even if they initially resist. 
This would also support supplement companies’ 
use of well-liked spokespersons to tout the use 
of their products. Similarly, using well-liked 
spokespersons to advertise supplements with 
purported weight loss beneﬁ  ts should have simi-
lar effects. 
  Achievement Goal Theory     While the latter theo-
retical explanations allow some insight into the 
use of supplements among athletic populations, 
perhaps no theory addresses supplement use in 
this population as precisely as achievement goal 
theory [ 33 ,  34 ]. Within this theoretical paradigm, 
it is assumed that there are differences in the 
manners by which athletes judge their compe-
tencies, successes, or failures. Such differences 
of goal involvement may be inﬂ  uenced by envi-
ronmental/situational inﬂ  uences, termed the cli-
mate [ 33 ], and individual differences, termed 
goal orientations [ 35 ]. Individuals who are task-
oriented tend to judge their success on the basis 
of personal improvement (e.g., I am successful if 
I learn or improve), whereas those who are ego- 
oriented tend to judge their success on the basis 
of social comparison with others (e.g., I am suc-
cessful if I win). Task-oriented individuals typi-
cally view personal ability as changeable and 
will exhibit strong motivation regardless of their 
perceptions of competence [ 36 ]. Those who are 
ego- oriented, in contrast, tend to view ability as 
more static and are thus more likely to engage in 
questionable strategies to ensure winning [ 37 ] 
and would be expected to engage in more 2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

32
 frequent doping activities and perhaps a greater 
willingness to use supplementation strategies. 
Interestingly, there is little direct evidence to link 
ego-goal orientations or ego climates with sup-
plement use. However, this would be an impor-
tant topic of inquiry in future studies. Certainly, 
this is an important topic of study in youth sport. 
If young athletes who are ego-involved begin 
using supplements, we must consider that they 
may not be as likely to comprehend (or care about) 
the potential for drug/supplement interactions.  
  Body Image and Eating Disorders     The desire to 
win in athletics couched within the achievement 
goal framework appears to be a good model to 
understand sport supplement use. In exercise and 
ﬁ tness settings, however, theories directed to 
body image may be more useful. While obesity 
rates have dramatically increased in the United 
States over the past few decades [ 38 ], a similar 
increase in the ideal body size has not occurred in 
the female population. In fact, the “ideal” waist 
size for females may have become unhealthily 
small [ 39 ]. Because of these two contradictory 
trends, it is no surprise that the use of supple-
ments targeted at weight loss has increased 
dramatically during this same time period. The 
nation is getting heavier and feeling worse 
about it, speciﬁ  cally in the female population. 
While we know that a large portion of supple-
ment use is driven by a desire to lose weight [ 4 ], 
less is known about more severe body image dis-
turbances in females as it may impact unhealthy 
supplement practices. Risky supplementation 
involving taking high doses or mixing supple-
ments may occur among individuals who have 
more severe body image disturbances. More 
research is needed to investigate the relations 
between social physique anxiety, the degree to 
which people are anxious or nervous when others 
are observing or evaluating their physique [ 40 ], 
and supplementation practices. Social physique 
anxiety has been shown to be positively related to 
percent body fat and body dissatisfaction [ 40 ,  41 ], 
and it is logical that such dissatisfaction would be 
an impetus for the use of weight loss supplements 
that may be used in exercise settings. The feelings 
associated with social physique anxiety are often so distressful that they have even been found to 
be related to cortisol secretion in exercise-related 
settings [ 42 ]. Given the intensity of these emo-
tions, it is reasonable to assume that practices 
that may make one feel better about their phy-
sique (i.e., weight loss with supplements) would 
be likely behaviors.  
 In a similar vein, it may be informative to look 
at disordered eating practices and supplement use. 
Examining the diagnostic criteria for bulimia [ 43 ], 
one of the notable symptoms is “recurrent 
inappropriate compensatory behavior in order to 
prevent weight gain, such as self-induced vomit-
ing; misuse of laxatives, diuretics, enemas, or 
other medications; fasting; or excessive exercise” 
(p. 549). It might be expected that individuals 
suffering from bulimia, and perhaps anorexia 
nervosa, would have excessive or unhealthy sup-
plementation practices. Research has shown that 
among women at risk for eating disorders, 
approximately 65 % engage in frequent use of 
“diet pills” [ 44 ], of which it is reasonable to 
assume a large portion would be considered 
supplements. Again, as the supplement industry 
has surged ahead promoting an ever-increasing 
range of products, researchers must try to deter-
mine how this may pose yet another risk for those 
who have eating disorders. It may also be that 
high levels of supplementation could be a warn-
ing sign of an eating disorder. More research sim-
ply needs to be done in this area. We do know that 
a warning sign of eating disorders is excessive 
exercise [ 43 ], and those working in exercise set-
tings should be alert to this. 
  The Adonis Complex     Typically, when one con-
siders issues related to body image concerns in 
the United States, one focuses upon female popu-
lations. However, Pope and colleagues [ 45 ] have 
identiﬁ  ed a similar, but opposing set of preoccu-
pations afﬂ  icting males termed the Adonis 
Complex, which seems to be afﬂ  icting boys and 
men more speciﬁ  cally in the last few decades. 
Those afﬂ  icted with the Adonis Complex may 
compulsively lift weights or exercise, engage in 
steroid abuse, elect to undergo plastic surgery, or 
suffer from eating disorders or body dysmorphic 
disorders, all in attempts to gain muscle mass, S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

33
change fat distribution, or otherwise alter their 
appearance to some ideal.  
 In one of the seminal works in this area, Pope 
and colleagues [ 46 ] interviewed 108 bodybuild-
ers (55 steroid users and 53 nonuser controls) 
and found a higher than normal incidence of 
anorexia nervosa (2.8 % incidence) and a sur-
prising incidence of “reverse anorexia” (8.3 % 
incidence) in which respondents believed they 
appeared small and weak despite a very large, 
muscular appearance. The latter ﬁ  nding indi-
cated that some of these bodybuilders exhibited 
unusual preoccupations with their appearance. 
Such pathological preoccupations with muscu-
larity have been termed  muscle dysmorphia  , and 
research concerning this issue has found it to be 
relatively common among adolescents and 
young males [ 45 ]. As an important link to poten-
tial supplement use or abuse, in Pope and col-
leagues’ [ 46 ] research, all of the bodybuilders 
indicating muscle dysmorphia (then termed 
“reverse anorexia”) were in the sample of steroid 
users, and many reported that the symptoms of 
muscle dysmorphia were a factor that led to ste-
roid use. If these individuals are driven to use 
illegal substances, one might expect higher than 
normal use of any substance (i.e., muscle-build-
ing supplements) purported to promote strength 
or muscle mass gains. As an indication of the 
degree of this obsession, individuals with this 
afﬂ iction have reported lifting weights for hours 
a day while sacriﬁ  cing other areas of their lives. 
For example, some of these individuals reported 
earning degrees in business, law, or medicine but 
did not pursue a career or gave up a career in 
these areas because they needed more time to lift 
weights [ 47 ]. 
 Recent research indicates that bodybuilders 
suffering from higher levels of muscle dysmor-
phia are more likely to experience body dissatis-
faction, social physique anxiety, and use 
muscle-building- or fat-reducing-targeted sup-
plements [ 48 ]. While the association between 
“muscle dissatisfaction” and frequency of exer cise 
has been questioned, indicating that incidence 
of muscular dissatisfaction is similar among 
frequent and infrequent exercisers [ 49 ], this study 
used perhaps an overly simplistic measure of muscular dissatisfaction likely not sensitive to 
indications of muscle dysmorphia. Nonetheless, 
further research is necessary to determine the 
incidence of muscular dissatisfaction or muscle 
dysmorphia and their impact on a variety of 
important outcomes such as supplement use. 
At present, there is some evidence that supple-
ment use is greater among individuals with 
muscle dissatisfaction [ 49 ], muscle dysmorphia 
[ 48 ], or a high drive for muscularity [ 50 ]. It also 
appears that illegal supplement use may accom-
pany muscle dysmorphia as data indicate that 
one million or more US males have used these 
substances (such as anabolic steroids) primarily 
to promote muscle growth as opposed to perfor-
mance enhancement purposes [ 45 ]. Finally, it 
should also be noted that research ﬁ  nds that 
some men have become preoccupied with fat as 
opposed to muscle and, in contrast to attempting 
to gain weight, may develop eating disorders [ 45 ]. 
This suggests that body image concerns among 
males may drive some to obsessively attempt to 
build muscle mass, whereas others may obses sively 
work to lose fat—and in both cases, it is likely 
that legal or illegal supplementation is a common 
means to achieve such goals.   
2.3     Biobehavioral Effects 
of Selected Supplements 
Commonly Employed 
for Performance, Fitness, 
and Health 
 In addition to the psychological reasons underlying 
supplement use, there are also a number of psycho-
logical and biobehavioral effects that are associated 
with certain supplements or ergogenic aids. In 
some illegal ergogenic aids (i.e., AAS), many of 
these effects are considered negative side effects 
associated with the use of the drug or substance. 
For example, AAS abuse has been reported to 
result in mood changes, irritability, aggression, 
and psychotic or manic behavior [ 51 – 55 ]. There 
has been mixed support for these effects in experi-
mental studies using supraphysiological doses of 
testosterone [ 56 – 58 ]. However, it appears that 
this may be due to considerable individual 2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

34
 variability in the psychological responses to AAS 
use, with those individuals predisposed to aggres-
sion or hostility most likely to respond with 
increased aggressive behaviors or anger [ 56 ,  57 ]. 
It is worth noting, though, that due to ethical 
restrictions in human subjects research, even the 
“supraphysiological” doses of testosterone used 
in the above studies (200–600 mg week −1 ) fall 
well below what some individuals typically use 
when on an AAS cycle. The negative psychologi-
cal responses likely become more apparent as the 
dosage increases. 
 In contrast to the negative psychological out-
comes associated with AAS administration, there 
are actually many positive psychobiological 
responses for some of the legal ergogenic aids 
and nutritional supplements used in sport or exer-
cise settings such as caffeine, creatine, omega-3 
fatty acids,  Ginkgo biloba  , and St. John’s wort. 
Some of these effects include enhanced arousal, 
improved memory and cognition, enhanced brain 
function and protection, and reduced depression. 
Unfortunately, deﬁ  nitive conclusions are difﬁ  cult 
for each of these compounds due to the typically 
small-scale studies conducted on each of them as 
well as likely publication bias in some cases [ 59 ]. 
In light of this, emphasis will be placed on meta- 
analytic results and ﬁ  ndings of well-controlled, 
randomized trials where available when review-
ing the evidence for each supplement. 
  Caffeine     Caffeine, particularly in the form of 
coffee, is one of the most commonly used ergo-
genic aids and CNS stimulants [ 60 ]. In fact, 
according to Sinclair and Geiger [ 61 ], caffeine is 
the worlds’ most abused substance. Its effects on 
physical performance (particularly endurance) 
are well established, but there are also many stud-
ies that have examined the role of caffeine as a 
psychological ergogenic. Caffeine would be used 
by athletes as a performance aid in athletic situa-
tions, yet it is likely that this is a widely used sub-
stance among those populations in exercise 
settings as well. Research has generally sup-
ported a beneﬁ  cial effect of caffeine intake on 
sensorimotor performance as well as vigilance 
and attention. Some of these ﬁ  ndings include 
improvements in simple and choice reaction time 
[ 60 ,  62 – 64 ], faster response rate for a tapping task [ 64 ], sustained attention and vigilance [ 64 – 66 ], 
and improved decision-making [ 67 ]. Furthermore, 
these effects appear to be even more pronounced 
under the situation of sleep deprivation or fatigue 
[ 67 – 69 ]. While it has been suggested that many 
of these ﬁ  ndings could be due to reversal of with-
drawal effects after caffeine abstinence rather 
than actual performance beneﬁ  ts per se, there is 
recent evidence that this is not the case [ 70 ].  
 Lieberman et al. [ 71 ] examined the impact of 
three different doses of caffeine (100, 200, or 
300 mg) or a placebo on cognitive performance 
in 68 Navy SEAL trainees under extreme condi-
tions during their Hell Week. At the time of test-
ing, the SEAL trainees had been sleep-deprived 
for approximately 72 h. Furthermore, due to stan-
dard SEAL training policy, they had refrained 
from caffeine intake for the entire week, thus 
controlling for possible “reversal of withdrawal” 
effects. Results indicated signiﬁ  cant improve-
ments in visual vigilance, choice reaction time, 
fatigue, repeated acquisition, and alertness in 
both the 200 and 300 mg groups, with the great-
est effects at 1 h post-ingestion but still persisting 
at 8 h post. There were no differences between 
the 200 and 300 mg groups. Additionally, though 
marksmanship was not improved, caffeine also 
did not adversely affect it, which had previously 
been expressed as a concern with a ﬁ  ne-motor 
steadiness type of task due to muscle tremors 
associated with caffeine [ 72 ,  73 ]. It could be that 
even if caffeine disrupts “steadiness,” it improves 
target acquisition and detection [ 74 ,  75 ]. In tasks 
requiring less ﬁ  ne-motor control (i.e., a tennis 
serve), accuracy has been found to improve with 
caffeine administration [ 76 ]. Caffeine adminis-
tration pre- and in-task has also been found to 
improve both endurance performance as well as 
decision-making ability [ 77 ], which has implica-
tions for sports requiring concentration and 
decision- making late in games. In general, the 
arousal effects induced by caffeine appeared to 
beneﬁ  t most areas of cognitive and psychological 
performance tested. 
 Caffeine can be linked to a state of arousal 
through speciﬁ  c physiological mechanisms. 
Research has shown caffeine intake leads to more 
positive frontal P2 and parietal P3 components of 
event-related potentials (ERP) [ 78 ]. This increase S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

35
in CNS activity indicates elevated levels of 
arousal, heightened information processing, and 
control-oriented mechanisms [ 78 ]. The arousal- 
inducing properties of caffeine appear to be tied 
primarily to its binding to adenosine A 1  and A 2A  
receptors, though recent research has suggested 
that the A 2A  receptor is primarily responsible for 
mediating these effects [ 79 ]. This may help 
explain the positive effects that caffeine ingestion 
appears to have on the risk of Parkinson’s disease 
(PD), which is characterized by central dopamine 
deﬁ ciency [ 80 ]. Because of an interaction 
between dopamine D 2  receptors and adenosine 
A 2A  receptors [ 81 ], caffeine appears to have 
dopamine agonist-like effects [ 82 ]. Though two 
small-scale clinical trials have failed to ﬁ  nd an 
effect of caffeine on Parkinson’s symptoms, the 
dosage used was extremely high (>1,000 mg), 
which may have eradicated the motor beneﬁ  ts 
seen at lower caffeine doses [ 83 ]. A more recent 
study found beneﬁ  ts on certain freezing-gait 
characteristics (i.e., total akinesia) using a low- 
dose (100 mg) caffeine treatment in patients with 
PD, though there appear to be distinct “responder” 
and “nonresponder” effects [ 84 ]. 
 According to Ferrauti, Weber, and Struder 
[ 76 ], caffeine can also produce improvements in 
psychomotor coordination and neuromuscular 
function through its effect on contractile status. 
Other effects include increased heart rate and the 
release of epinephrine, norepinephrine, and corti-
sol [ 78 ,  85 ]. Because of caffeine’s stimulatory 
effects on the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal 
(HPA) axis [ 86 ], it has the potential to induce an 
endocrine response similar to that seen under 
mental or physical stress. Individuals classiﬁ  ed as 
“at risk” for hypertension appear to be especially 
sensitive to this HPA activation [ 87 ,  88 ], particu-
larly when also exposed to a psychosocial stressor 
[ 88 ]. In light of this, it would appear prudent to 
caution those at risk for hypertension on the use of 
caffeine, particularly during periods of high stress. 
 When evaluating the psychological or biobe-
havioral effects of caffeine, it is important to keep 
in mind that plasma concentrations typically reach 
their peak within 30–60 min after ingestion [ 89 ]. 
Therefore, test administration must be timed 
appropriately. Additionally, some studies have 
evaluated the psychological and cognitive effects using absolute doses, while others have standard-
ized dose by bodyweight. Depending upon the 
heterogeneity of the study sample, these two 
approaches could provide distinctly different 
interpretations of a dose–response effect. This 
can become even more problematic if pretreat-
ment caffeine intake is not accounted for or con-
trolled [ 90 ]. This may be particularly important 
for the study of skills requiring concentration, 
reaction speed, and accuracy. Finally, Mikalsen 
et al. [ 91 ] found mixed evidence for potential 
expectancy and placebo effects for caffeine and 
arousal. Further research in this area appears 
warranted in order to determine the extent of 
these effects and the impact on actual psycho-
logical performance. 
  Creatine     Creatine use is common among both 
athletic and exercise populations. Much like the 
research on caffeine, there is abundant evidence 
that creatine supplementation improves physical 
performance, particularly for tasks requiring 
strength and power. Because of this, and because 
of the role of creatine in brain function and neu-
roprotection [ 92 ], interest has risen for investigat-
ing the role of creatine in the treatment of certain 
clinical conditions such as traumatic brain injury 
(TBI) and Huntington’s disease (HD), as well as 
for general cognitive functioning.  
 Overall, TBI affects approximately between 
1.7 and 3.8 million people each year in the US 
alone [ 93 ]. Emergency room visits due to sport- 
related TBI in children and adolescents have 
risen 60 % in the last 10 years and account for 
almost 200,000 TBIs annually [ 94 ], which can 
result in subdural hematomas, deterioration of 
cognitive function, or even death [ 95 ,  96 ]. These 
injuries are occurring despite improvements in 
safety equipment, rule changes, and training 
methods. Furthermore, there is currently very 
little in the way of “therapeutic intervention” to 
help prevent or even treat this type of injury [ 97 ]. 
It has been hypothesized that creatine might 
exert neuroprotective effects through provision 
of sufﬁ  cient ATP immediately after trauma or by 
inhibiting the mitochondrial permeability transi tion 
pore (mPTP) [ 95 ,  96 ]. In an effort to examine the 
potential neuroprotective effects of creatine on this 
type of injury as well as underlying mechanisms, 2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

36
Sullivan et al. [ 95 ] employed an animal model of 
experimentally induced TBI. They found that 
chronic creatine administration reduced cortical 
damage due to experimentally induced TBI by as 
much as 36 % in mice and 50 % in rats. They also 
found that chronic creatine supplementation 
resulted in maintenance of cellular ATP levels, 
reductions of free radical formation, decreased 
intramitochondrial Ca 2+ , and maintenance of 
mitochondrial membrane potential [ 90 ]. There 
also appeared to be inhibition of mPTP, though 
recent research using ubiquitous mitochondrial 
creatine kinase (UbMi-CK)-deﬁ  cient mice sug-
gests that the neuroprotective effects of creatine 
are most likely due to the maintenance of ATP/
ADP and PCr/Cr levels rather than mPTP inhibi-
tion [ 93 ]. Nonetheless, the overall ﬁ  ndings of 
Sullivan et al. [ 95 ] are encouraging and warrant 
further investigation into the potential use of cre-
atine supplementation in the prevention and 
treatment of TBI. 
 The use of a human model in a true- 
experimental design of TBI and creatine supple-
mentation would likely not be ethically acceptable 
or logistically feasible at this point. However, 
there is evidence supporting the cognitive bene-
ﬁ ts of creatine in humans. Using a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, crossover design, Rae et al. 
[ 98 ] found that 6 weeks of creatine supplementa-
tion (5 g day −1 ) in 45 young adult vegetarians 
resulted in improved brain function as evidenced 
by signiﬁ  cant improvements on speed of process-
ing tasks, including working memory and intel-
ligence. Similarly, Watanabe et al. [ 99 ] found that 
supplementing with 8 g of creatine per day for 5 
days reduced mental fatigue resulting from a 
repeated serial calculation task. Perhaps more 
importantly, they found that creatine ingestion 
was associated with increased oxygen utilization 
in the brain during the task as measured with 
near-infrared spectroscopy [ 99 ]. This is consis-
tent with in vitro results demonstrating that mito-
chondrial oxygen consumption is greater in the 
presence of higher creatine concentrations [ 100 ]. 
A recent, intriguing study [ 101 ] found that 6 months 
of creatine administration (0.4 g kg −1  day −1 ) in 
children (ages 1–18 years) admitted to a hospital 
in Greece with TBI resulted in trends for improved duration of posttraumatic amnesia, 
period of intubation, and length of the ICU stay 
compared to a placebo. It also signiﬁ  cantly 
improved linguistic understanding [ 101 ]. 
 Another potential area of clinical utilization 
for creatine supplementation has been in the 
treatment of HD, which is a progressive neurode-
generative disease for which there currently is no 
effective therapy. One of the side effects to HD 
that might contribute to neuronal death is 
impaired energy metabolism, particularly in the 
brain [ 102 ]. Given creatine’s demonstrated 
neuroprotective effects as well as its role in bio-
energetics, researchers have begun to examine 
the utility of the supplement in delaying or 
improving the symptoms associated with HD. 
Fortunately, a transgenic mouse model of HD was 
developed [ 103 ] that has allowed examination of 
mechanistic effects of HD and potential treat ments. 
Using this model, Ferrante et al. [ 102 ] found 
that creatine supplementation enhanced brain 
creatine concentrations, delayed brain atrophy, 
delayed atrophy of striatal neurons, and signiﬁ  -
cantly improved survival. Body weight and 
motor performance were also improved with 
creatine supplementation. Matthews et al. [ 104 ] 
used a slightly different animal model of HD by 
inducing HD-like striatal lesions with malonate 
and 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP). They found 
that both creatine and cyclocreatine provided 
protective effects against malonate and 3-NP 
lesions in a dose–response manner. There was 
actually a reduction in the neuroprotection 
afforded by creatine supplementation at its high-
est dose, suggesting a curvilinear (U-shaped) 
dose–response curve for treatment efﬁ  cacy. It is 
also worth noting that creatine appeared to func-
tion as either a free radical scavenger or as an 
inhibitor of hydroxyl radical formation [ 104 ]. 
The authors suggest that by preventing ATP 
depletion, creatine and cyclocreatine serve to 
prevent the cascade of events leading to free 
radical generation or accumulation and cell 
death [ 104 ]. Unfortunately, these effects have not 
always translated into symptom improvements 
in studies utilizing creatine supplementation in 
human HD patients [ 105 ]. However, it is possible 
that the supplementation method was less than S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

37
ideal for attenuating declines associated with this 
disease in humans or that differential effects will 
be seen depending upon the stage of the disease. 
Given the promising results from animal studies, 
further research is clearly warranted to determine 
whether the effects seen in an animal model of 
HD translate to the human model. 
  Ginkgo Biloba     The use of  Ginkgo biloba   as a 
therapeutic aid can be traced back over 5,000 
years to early Chinese medicine [ 106 ]. It was not 
until the 1960s that  Ginkgo biloba   extract (EGb) 
was introduced into Western medicine [ 106 ]. 
EGb is commonly found in energy drinks that 
would be commonly used by sport and exercise 
populations, though the doses in these drinks are 
usually quite low. Athletes may be persuaded to 
take EGb because of its professed effects on 
mental alertness or focus. Purported clinical uses 
now include treatment for memory impairment, 
dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, and intermittent 
claudication [ 59 ,  107 ]. There is even evidence 
that EGb might help prevent symptoms of sea-
sonal affective disorder (SAD) during the winter 
months [ 108 ]. While there have been well over 
40 controlled trials examining these effects, 
much of the early research was relatively small- 
scale and of questionable methodological quality 
[ 107 ]. Meta-analyses that have included the more 
rigorous of these trials have generally found posi-
tive results for the effects of EGb on memory 
impairment, Alzheimer’s disease, and dementia 
[ 107 ,  109 – 111 ]. Despite the generally positive 
ﬁ ndings, however, Birks and Grimly Evans [ 111 ] 
conclude that the evidence for EGb having 
signiﬁ  cant beneﬁ  t for treatment of dementia or 
cognitive impairment is both inconsistent and 
unconvincing. Part of the reason for this conclu-
sion appears to be based on concern for publi-
cation bias in this area [ 107 ,  111 ]. Ernst [ 59 ] 
argues that the evidence for EGb’s effects on 
normal cognitive function is not compelling, 
but that the average effect associated with EGb 
and Alzheimer-related dementia is likely to be 
clinically relevant. There is some evidence that 
acute EGb ingestion can provide enhanced 
 cognitive effects in even healthy, young 
adults, though this effect was signiﬁ  cantly more  pronounced when EGb was combined with 
 Panax ginseng   [ 112 ]. Future research should 
 consider interactive effects of EGb with other 
common supplements.  
 Most EGb used for medical and research pur-
poses (EGb 761) contains 24 % ﬂ  avone and 6 % 
terpenoids [ 113 ]. It is believed that the ﬂ  avonoids 
contribute the antioxidant effects of EGb, thus 
making it an effective free radical scavenger [ 113 ]. 
This might actually be one of the primary mecha-
nisms through which EGb exerts its effects on 
dementia and cognition. Oxidative damage to 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) in brain 
cells results in impaired neurotransmitter uptake, 
and cellular damage resulting from free radical 
production appears to be a key contributor to the 
pathology and neurotoxicity associated with 
Alzheimer’s disease [ 114 ]. Research using an 
animal model for Alzheimer’s disease found that 
both in vivo and in vitro treatment with EGb 761 
resulted in signiﬁ  cant attenuations in reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) [ 115 ] and enhanced hip-
pocampal neurogenesis [ 116 ]. This is consistent 
with epidemiological ﬁ  ndings in humans demon-
strating an association between ﬂ  avonoid [ 117 ] 
and vitamin E [ 118 ] intake and cognitive func-
tioning in older adults. 
 Results of a few, large-scale randomized clini-
cal trials (RCT) have provided somewhat mixed 
results regarding the effects of EGb administra-
tion on symptoms of dementia, though the major-
ity of the evidence supports the efﬁ  cacy of EGb 
treatment. In a 24-week study of 156 subjects 
with Alzheimer-induced dementia or multi- 
infarct dementia, Kanowski et al. [ 119 ] found 
that EGb 761 administration resulted in improved 
cognitive performance, behavior (i.e., coping 
skills, independence), and EEG mapping charac-
teristics compared to placebo. LeBars et al [ 120 ] 
randomly assigned 202 subjects with dementia of 
mild-to-moderate severity to receive either 
120 mg day −1  of EGb 761 or a placebo for 1 year. 
They found that EGb successfully attenuated 
continued declines in cognitive functioning and 
the signs and symptoms of the disease compared 
to placebo, though the effects were relatively 
modest. There were also some patients that 
improved while taking EGb. A re-analysis of 2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

38
the data [ 121 ] revealed that the changes in the 
experimental group were dependent upon sever-
ity of the disease at baseline. In those indivi-
duals classiﬁ  ed as having “mild” cognitive 
impairment, EGb resulted in improvements. 
In those individuals having “severe” cognitive 
impairments, progression of the disease was only 
stabilized or slowed by EGb, but was still better 
than placebo [ 121 ]. A more recent 24-week 
placebo- controlled, double-blind EGb trial with 
123 patients [ 122 ] failed to support the efﬁ  cacy 
of two different doses (240 or 160 mg day −1 ) of 
EGb for subjects with age-associated memory 
impairment or dementia. However, these results 
have been criticized as difﬁ  cult to interpret due to 
the mixture of subjects suffering from dementia 
and subjects with, in some cases, very little cog-
nitive impairment [ 113 ]. In light of this criticism, 
interpretation becomes even more challenging 
due to the fact that subjects in each of the original 
EGb dose groups were randomly assigned to 
continue with EGb or a placebo after 12 weeks. 
A more recent RCT in over 400 individuals with 
mild-to- moderate dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, 
or vascular dementia found signiﬁ  cant improve-
ments in cognitive function, neuropsychiatric 
symptoms, and functional abilities over 24 weeks 
of treatment with 240 mg d −1  of EGb [ 123 ]. 
Overall, it appears that EGb has potentially 
 beneﬁ  cial effects on Alzheimer’s disease and 
dementia symptoms, and further well-designed 
RCTs should help elucidate long-term efﬁ  cacy 
and dose–response effects. 
  St. John’s Wort     The use of St. John’s wort may be 
less common for sport or exercise-speciﬁ  c rea-
sons as compared to caffeine, creatine, or EGB. 
However, this supplement is widely used in the 
general population [ 11 ] and has interesting pur-
ported beneﬁ  ts and concerning possible side 
effects. Also, this supplement has similar pur-
ported beneﬁ  ts to alleviate depression as does 
physical exercise, and its study in conjunction in 
exercise settings is warranted. Several meta- analytic 
reviews [ 124 – 129 ], most of which have included 
only RCTs in their analyses, have supported the 
efﬁ cacy of St. John’s wort (SJW;  Hypericum per-
foratum   L.) for the treatment of depression of mild-to-moderate severity compared to placebo. 
Many of these meta-analyses [ 124 ,  126 ,  128 ] 
have also concluded that SJW is as effective as 
some of the conventional antidepressants, 
including tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) and 
ﬂ uoxetine, typically with fewer side effects. 
However, Whiskey et al. [ 128 ] urged caution in 
interpreting the apparent equivalence due to the 
low statistical power inherent in most of the 
RCTs that traditionally compared SJW to antide-
pressants. A more recent, larger-scale ( N  = 251) 
RCT, however, found that SJW was  at least   as 
effective as paroxetine for treating moderate to 
severe major depression and was better toler-
ated [ 130 ]. Nonetheless, most RCTs continue to 
support the meta-analytic conclusions (see 
reviews [ 131 ,  132 ]), though evidence for efﬁ  cacy 
in treating major depression appears mixed [ 130 , 
 133 – 135 ].  
 The two primary substances contained in 
SJW that are believed to be responsible for the 
antidepressant effect are hyperforin and hyperi-
cin [ 131 ]. Recent evidence now points to hyper-
forin being the main contributor to this effect 
[ 136 ,  137 ]. Various mechanisms have been iden-
tiﬁ ed to explain how SJW might exert its antide-
pressant effects, though the precise mechanism 
remains unclear [ 131 ]. SJW or its isolated com-
ponents have been shown to inhibit serotonin 
(5-HT), norepinephrine, and dopamine reuptake 
[ 138 ], inhibit GABA and  L -glutamate uptake 
[ 136 ,  139 ], and inhibit substance-P (SP) produc-
tion of proinﬂ  ammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-6) 
[ 140 ] that have been implicated in depressive 
etiology. Additionally, SJW has been shown to 
inhibit monoamine oxidase (MAO), though this 
inhibition appears to be of insufﬁ  cient magni-
tude to account for signiﬁ  cant antidepressant 
effects [ 141 ]. It is entirely possible that SJW 
functions to reduce depression through a com-
bined effect of each of these mechanisms. 
 Despite the established beneﬁ  ts of SJW in the 
treatment of mild-to-moderate depression, there 
is a major concern with its use that focuses on 
apparent drug-interaction effects. There have 
been various reports of SJW having negative 
interactions with drugs such as warfarin, 
cyclospo rine, HIV protease inhibitors, digoxin, S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

39
theophylline, and oral contraceptives by decreasing 
their circulating concentrations [ 142 ]. The mech-
anism behind these interactions appears to be the 
combined result of induction of the cytochrome 
P450 isoenzymes, particularly CYP3A4 as well 
as CYP2C9 and CYP1A2, and the transport pro-
tein P-glycoprotein by SJW [ 142 ]. These effects 
appear to be primarily related to the degree of 
hyperforin content, with the least enzyme induc-
tion seen for SJW products with <1 % hyperforin 
[ 142 ]. It also appears that SJW can compound the 
effects of other selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors (SSRIs) and potentially lead to sero-
tonin excess if SJW and SSRIs are combined due 
to their common pharmacological mechanisms 
[ 143 ,  144 ]. Considering the commonality of the 
mechanisms identiﬁ  ed above to explain SJWs 
effects on depression and those that have been 
advanced to explain the effects of exercise on 
depression (see review [ 145 ]), it is imperative 
that future studies begin to explore the potential 
interactions between SJW (as well as many other 
popular herbal supplements) and exercise. While 
there might be a synergistic effect, we must also 
consider the physiological responses induced 
by exercise and how they might impact the 
metabolism of these supplements. Dose–response 
models derived from primarily sedentary popula-
tions may not apply to more active groups. 
  Omega-3 Fatty Acids     Omega-3 fatty acids 
(O3FA) have received considerable attention for 
their established effects on cardiovascular 
health, blood lipids, and inﬂ  ammation. However, 
there is increasing evidence for impacts of the 
O3FA constituent components eicosapentaenoic 
acid    (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) 
on cognitive- and mood-related issues [ 146 ]. 
Sufﬁ cient EPA and, in particular, DHA are 
absolutely required for development of sensory, 
perceptual, cognitive, and motor neural systems 
during brain growth, which is part of the reason 
that they have begun to receive attention in 
supplemental form for adults and individuals 
with certain cognitive- based disorders [ 146 ]. 
There is evidence that O3FAs may be helpful 
in treating mild Alzheimer’s disease [ 147 ]. 
A large-scale double- blind RCT in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease found 
that a combined DHA/EPA supplement (total 
2.3 g day -1 ) slowed the decline in cognitive 
function in a subgroup with less severe dysfunc-
tion [ 147 ]. As noted by the authors, the effect 
appeared to be primarily driven by DHA. This 
also makes theoretical sense given that DHA lim-
its production and accumulation of amyloid β 
peptide toxin, thus protecting against Alzheimer’s 
disease and dementia [ 148 ]. It also suppresses 
several signal transduction pathways induced by 
amyloid β [ 148 ]. Because of this, DHA may be 
more effective if begun early and used in con-
junction with antioxidants. It is also worth noting 
that even in otherwise healthy subjects, a recent 
double-blind RCT [ 149 ] found that using 4 g ﬁ  sh 
oil/day (800 mg DHA and 1,600 mg EPA) for 35 
days resulted in improved mood, attention, reac-
tion time, and decision-making.  
 Another area related to cognitive function 
and development that has received interest as an 
area of impact with O3FA is attention-deﬁ  cit/
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), which happens 
to be the most common childhood development 
disorder. Prevalence rates in children range 
between 4 and 15 % [ 150 ]. Children with ADHD 
consistently exhibit abnormal FA status, with 
pronounced O3FA deﬁ  ciencies [ 150 ]. The low 
levels of O3FA have been found to be correlated 
with behavioral problems and learning difﬁ  cul-
ties [ 151 ]. Though results have been mixed [ 150 , 
 152 – 155 ], most RCTs have supported at least 
some beneﬁ  ts of an EPA/DHA combination (par-
ticularly if combined with O6FA) for improving 
ADHD symptoms and behaviors. From a design 
standpoint, some of these RCTs have used a 
potentially “active” placebo in the form of olive 
oil which may explain some of the small differ-
ences noted between groups. 
 Given the notable cognitive effects of O3FA, it 
is perhaps not surprising that they have been 
investigated for their potential contribution to 
protection or recovery from TBI. Much like we 
see with creatine, O3FA restore cellular energet ics, 
reduce oxidative stress and inﬂ  ammation, repair 
cellular damage, reduce axonal damage, and mit-
igate the activation of apoptotic processes after 
TBI [ 156 – 159 ]. Perhaps equally as important, 2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

40
O3FA also appear to regulate BDNF and  maintain 
brain plasticity [ 159 ]. Of critical consideration is 
that supplementation not only serves as effective 
treatment from induced TBI in an animal model 
[ 158 ], but it also provides a prophylactic effect 
when supplemented regularly before the injury 
[ 157 ,  159 ]. Recovery was to the level of unin-
jured animals by 30 days in one study [ 158 ]. 
Overall, it appears that O3FA supplementation 
enhances structural, biochemical, behavioral, and 
cognitive (i.e., memory) responses to TBI in ani mal 
models utilizing mild ﬂ  uid percussion injury 
[ 159 ] or impact acceleration injury [ 157 ,  158 ] to 
induce TBI. By increasing axonal regeneration, 
reducing inﬂ  ammation, buffering glutamate 
cytotoxicity, and decreasing lipid peroxidation 
byproducts, O3FA mitigate much of the patho-
genesis resulting from TBI. Unfortunately, human 
data are generally lacking. Given the promising 
animal ﬁ  ndings, this is an area of research with 
O3FA that clearly warrants human trials. 
 One ﬁ  nal area of biobehavioral impact of 
O3FA that has received considerable support in 
human research is on mental health and, speciﬁ  -
cally, depression. Not only does epidemiological 
and correlational evidence support the role of low 
levels of O3FA in the etiology of depression 
[ 156 ], but supplementation with these com-
pounds has provided generally positive results 
for mild, moderate, and, in some cases, major 
depression [ 146 ]. In a recent double-blind RCT 
in individuals with major depression, O3FA only 
appear to be effective if the depression is not 
accompanied by comorbid anxiety disorders [ 160 ]. 
There may even be a positive effect for bipolar 
disorder [ 146 ]. It has become increasingly clear 
that the effects of O3FA on depression are almost 
solely due to the EPA component (1–4.4 g/day) 
[ 161 ], which may explain mixed ﬁ  ndings from 
some studies if a high DHA component was 
employed [ 162 ]. While a meta- analysis by Bloch 
and Hannestad [ 163 ] concluded that there is no 
signiﬁ  cant beneﬁ  t of O3FA on depression, it 
has been heavily criticized [ 164 ] for including 
studies in which depressive disorder was not 
rigorously diagnosed and one study in particular 
that represented 31.7 % of the weighted pooled 
estimate in the meta-analysis but used self-rating to classify depression [ 165 ]. A re-analysis of the 
data after accounting for the questionably 
included clinical trials resulted in a signiﬁ  cant 
effect for O3FA on depression [ 164 ]. 
 It has been suggested that method of delivery 
may impact O3FA outcomes, with EPA and DHA 
bound to phospholipids (i.e., omega-3 phosphati-
dylserine; omega-3 phospholipids via krill oil) 
potentially being the most effective method of 
administration due to their ability to target the 
brain [ 146 ]. However, most of this evidence 
applies to ADHD and dysmenorrhea while direct 
testing for depression is lacking. Future research 
is warranted in this area. Additionally, further 
examination of mechanisms of action for the 
O3FA biobehavioral effects is needed, particu-
larly considering that DHA and EPA appear to 
provide different outcomes depending on the 
condition. Whether the compounds are modulat-
ing inﬂ  ammation, modifying neurotransmitters 
(especially BDNF), maintaining membrane ﬂ  uid-
ity, reducing oxidative stress, or providing for 
axonal protection needs to be elucidated in order 
to provide sound recommendations for applica-
tion and potentially enhance effects with other 
biobehavioral treatments (e.g., exercise, creatine) 
in a synergistic manner.  
2.4     Summary 
 Though supplement use continues to grow in 
the United States, little attention has been given 
to developing a theoretical understanding of 
the motivational forces at work in this area. 
Researchers should consider that most individu-
als in sport and exercise environments are look-
ing for quick results reﬂ  ected as performance 
gains, shape change, or health. If supplements 
provide such changes, they could be said to be 
reinforced through reward contingencies. Thus, 
in one sense, the motivation to take supplements 
is quite simple—those who take supplements are 
(sometimes) rewarded. This might help to explain 
why many muscle-building supplements have been 
shown to contain illegal constituents that would 
actually lead to a failed drug test [ 6 ]. Supplement 
companies want their products to work very S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

41
effectively in order to capitalize upon the 
 motivating properties of reward. On the other 
hand, we know that the effectiveness of many 
supplements is not well-established and that it is 
likely that few supplements can legitimately offer 
immediate improvement. Therefore, researchers 
must consider other motivational explanations for 
supplement use in sport and exercise settings. 
 Among theories or constructs that may explain 
supplement use in sport and exercise, the theory 
of planned behavior, balance theory, achievement 
goal theory, social physique anxiety, and muscle 
dysmorphia would be important to consider. 
The theory of planned behavior considers the 
importance of norms, attitude and perceived 
behavioral control as predictors of intent to 
engage in behavior that is partially under our 
volitional control. Understanding how supple ments 
are considered good/bad (attitude), commonly 
used or approved of (subjective norm), and 
avail able and easy to use (perceived behavioral 
control) may allow researchers to understand the 
pathways directing supplement use. Closely 
related to the idea of normative inﬂ  uence on 
behavior, we should consider the persuasive 
effects of well-liked spokespersons who tout the 
efﬁ cacy of certain supplements. According to 
balance theory, individuals may change their 
action (begin to use supplements) or attitudes 
(condone use) when faced with a situation that 
causes imbalance of thought and action (i.e., one 
of their favorite athletes uses supplements). 
Achievement goal theory proposes that indi vidu-
als who are motivated to beat others or win (i.e., 
judge success based on social comparison) will be 
more likely to use legal or even illegal supple-
mentation to achieve such goals. Individuals 
driven by personal improvement (i.e., task 
involved motivation) should be less likely to use 
supplements. Finally, upon considering the forces 
driving supplementation in sport and exercise, it is 
important to consider how body image and social 
physique anxiety relate to supplement use. This 
may be one of the more important psychological 
considerations considering the dramatic ﬁ  ndings 
of Pope and colleagues [ 42 ]. If individuals are 
willing to risk their career to lift weights to 
change their body shape, it suggests an alarming obsession with body image that has been already 
linked to supplement use. What seems to be lack-
ing in the literature is an understanding of moti-
vational factors and their relation to supplement 
use generally, but more importantly to dangerous 
(i.e., over-supplementation or mixed supplemen-
tation) supplementation practices. 
 Consideration of the psychological outcomes 
associated with some of the best-selling supple-
ments (e.g., caffeine, creatine,  Ginkgo biloba  , St. 
John’s wort) has revealed encouraging ﬁ  ndings 
for efﬁ  cacy in improving such things as arousal 
and attention, neuroprotection, cognitive func-
tion, neurological diseases, and mild-to- moderate 
depression. Furthermore, there is reason to be 
encouraged by the RCTs and meta-analytic 
reviews that have been conducted on many of 
these compounds. Some of these studies, particu-
larly those employing animal models, have pro-
vided important evidence for the physiological 
mechanisms potentially underlying these psy-
chological outcomes. While considerable work 
remains to be done to continue to clarify these 
mechanisms and examine their applicability to 
the human model, biological plausibility for 
these supplements’ psychological utility appears 
to have been established. Dose–response issues, 
on the other hand, remain unresolved for many of 
the substances, and this is an area that warrants 
further consideration in order to establish optimal 
use. Along these same lines, effects that might be 
impacted by exercise need to be evaluated for 
 Ginkgo biloba   and St. John’s wort. This is par-
ticularly important for St. John’s wort consider-
ing the established interaction effects that it has 
been shown to have with many drugs [ 133 – 136 ]. 
Some of the effects induced by these drugs have 
also been found to be induced by exercise [ 137 ], 
and this needs to be considered in future research. 
Finally, before deﬁ  nitive efﬁ  cacy conclusions 
can be reached for creatine and neuroprotection, 
 Ginkgo biloba   and dementia/Alzheimer ’s disease, 
and St. John’s wort and depression, larger- scale, 
long-term RCTs are needed. To this point, trials 
of these supplements have been too small 
and too short [ 55 ]. Generally speaking, though, 
there appears to be a positive risk-beneﬁ  t proﬁ  le 
for each of the reviewed supplements, thus 2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

42
 warranting dedication of resources to further 
examination of their application to enhancing 
performance as well as to various diseases and 
conditions.  
2.5     Practical Applications 
     The use of supplements having obvious efﬁ  -
cacy to the user is likely to cause future use.  
   Information leading to favorable attitudes 
about supplements is likely to promote their 
use. Promotion or data from “experts” can be 
persuasive in developing (or degrading) favor-
able attitudes regarding supplements.  
   Individuals who perceive that supplement use 
is common among their peers will be more 
likely to use supplements. Individuals who 
believe that they “should” be taking  supplements 
will be more likely to take supplements. One 
should be aware of the messages sent by 
coaches, trainers, and professionals regarding 
frequency of use of supplements and the neces-
sity of supplement use.  
   Individuals will be more likely to take supple-
ments if they feel they are easy to use or cheaper.  
   Well-liked individuals (e.g., professional ath-
letes, celebrities) who state they use supple-
ments may lead their fans to use supplements.  
   Athletes motivated primarily to win may 
engage in greater supplementation. Care may 
be taken to ensure that win-focused athletes 
don’t engage in illegal or dangerous supple-
mentation practices.  
   There appears to be a portion of the popula-
tion compulsive about their appearance which 
may cause an increase in supplementation 
(either to gain muscle or lose weight). 
Appearance of these compulsions should be 
taken seriously, as we are just beginning to 
learn about the nature of these issues. 
Professionals working with such individuals 
should be on the lookout for illegal or danger-
ous supplementation practices.  
   We know little about the overlap of eating 
disorders and supplementation use, but indi-
viduals who work with those attempting to lose weight should consider preoccupation 
with weight an important risk factor. Studies 
show that intense and prompt treatment is the 
best course of action to help individuals with 
eating disorders. Professionals working in this 
area should monitor traditional warning signs 
and supplementation practices alike.  
   Caffeine doses in the range of 200 mg appear 
to produce positive changes in attention, vigi-
lance, and arousal, particularly if the individ-
ual is fatigued or sleep deprived. This may be 
particularly useful to athletes that require sus-
tained vigilance or individuals exposed to 
extreme conditions and physical and psycho-
logical demands (i.e., military, ﬁ  reﬁ ghters).  
   Creatine not only enhances physical perfor-
mance but also has apparent neuroprotective 
effects. Its use as a prophylactic might be ben-
eﬁ cial to athletes involved in sports where 
incidence of TBI is high (i.e., mixed martial 
arts, football, soccer, boxing). Additionally, 
creatine use might be beneﬁ  cial for individu-
als suffering from Huntington’s disease in 
order to help attenuate neurodegeneration. 
Moderate doses appear to be most effective.  
    Ginkgo biloba   supplementation might help 
attenuate or even reverse some of the cogni-
tive symptoms of Alzheimer-related dementia. 
It appears to do this through a reduction in 
oxidative stress at the level of the brain cells.  
   St. John’s wort can be used to help reduce 
symptoms of mild-to-moderate depression. 
However, caution must be observed if the indi-
vidual is taking other drugs, such as warfarin, 
cyclosporine, HIV protease inhibitors, digoxin, 
theophylline, or oral contraceptives because it 
may interact with these drugs and lower their 
circulating levels. Combination with SSRIs 
can exacerbate their effects. Interactions with 
exercise also need to be considered because of 
many overlapping mechanisms.  
   O3FA improve cognition in health individuals 
and those with Alzheimer’s disease, reduce 
problems associated with ADHD, serve as a 
prophylactic and treatment for TBI, and 
reduce depression. The DHA and EPA com-
ponents appear to have different effects S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

43
depending on the desired outcome, with 
DHA contributing primarily to cognitive 
beneﬁ  ts and EPA contributing to antidepres sant 
effects. Doses from 1.5 to 4 g day -1  appear to 
be well-tolerated and most effective.        
   References 
      1.   Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 
1994. Public Law 103-417. 103rd Congress. 
Downloaded from   http://www.fda.gov/opacom/
laws/dshea.html     on 7 May 2007.  
    2.   Nutrition Business Journal’s Supplement Business 
Report. Downloaded from   http://www.nutrition
business.com     on 7 May 2013.  
     3.    Radimer KL, Subar AF, Thompson FE. Nonvitamin, 
nonmineral dietary supplements: issues and ﬁ  ndings 
from NHANES III. J Am Diet Assoc. 2000;100(4):
447–54.  
      4.    Perkin JE, Wilson WJ, Schuster K, Rodriguez J, 
Allen-Chabot A. Prevalence of non-vitamin, non- 
mineral supplement usage among university stu-
dents. J Am Diet Assoc. 2002;102:412–4.  
    5.   2013-14 NCAA Banned Drugs. Downloaded from 
  http://www.ncaa.org/health-and-safety/policy/2013-
14- ncaa-banned-drugs     on 1 May 2014.  
     6.    Geyer H, Parr MK, Mareck U, Reinhart U, Schrader 
Y , Schanzer W. Analysis of non-hormonal nutritional 
supplements for anabolic-androgenic steroids—
results of an international study. Int J Sports Med. 
2004;25:124–9.  
    7.    Almeida JC, Grimsley EW. Coma from the health 
food store: interaction between kava and alprazolam. 
Ann Intern Med. 1996;125(11):940–1.  
    8.    Fennell D. Determinants of supplement usage. Prev 
Med. 2004;39:932–9.  
    9.    Egger G, Cameron-Smith D, Stanton R. The effec-
tiveness of popular, non-prescription weight loss 
supplements. Med J Aust. 1999;171:604–8.  
    10.    Popkin BM, Doak C. The obesity epidemic is a 
worldwide phenomenon. Nutr Rev. 1998;56:
106–14.  
        11.    Kaufman DW, Kelly JP, Rosenberg L, Anderson TE, 
Mitchell AA. Recent patterns of medication use in 
the ambulatory adult population of the United States: 
the Slone Survey. JAMA. 2002;287:337–44.  
     12.    Bailey RL, Gahche JJ, Lentino CV , Dwyer JT, Engel 
JS, Thomas PR, Betz JM, Sempos CT, Picciano 
MF. Dietary supplement use in the United States, 
2003-2006. J Nutr. 2011;141:261–6.  
    13.    Foote JA, Murphy SP, Wilkens LR, Hankin JH, 
Henderson BE, Kolonel LN. Factors associated with 
dietary supplement use among healthy adults of ﬁ  ve 
ethnicities: the Multiethnic Cohort Study. Am J 
Epidemiol. 2003;157:888–97.      14.    Harrison RA, Holt D, Pattison D, Elton PJ. Who and 
how many people are taking herbal supplements? 
A survey of 21,923 adults. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 
2004;74:183–6.  
    15.    Sobal J, Marquart LF. Vitamin/mineral supplement 
use among athletes: a review of the literature. Int J 
Sport Nutr. 1994;4:320–34.  
    16.    Froiland K, Koszewski W, Hingst J, Kopecky L. 
Nutritional supplement use among college athletes 
and their sources of information. Int J Sport Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2004;14:104–20.  
     17.    Scoﬁ  eld DE, Unruh S. Dietary supplement use 
among adolescent athletes in central Nebraska and 
their sources of information. J Strength Cond Res. 
2006;20:452–5.  
    18.    Huang SH, Johnson K, Pipe AL. The use of dietary 
supplements and medications by Canadian athletes 
at the Atlanta and Sydney Olympic Games. Clin J 
Sport Med. 2006;16:27–33.  
    19.    Nieper A. Nutritional supplement practices in UK 
junior national track and ﬁ  eld athletes. Br J Sports 
Med. 2005;39:645–9.  
    20.    Perko MA, Eddy JM, Bartee RT, Dunn MS. Giving 
new meaning to the term “Taking one for the team”: 
inﬂ uences on use/non-use of dietary supplements 
among adolescent athletes. J Am Health Stud. 
2000;16:99–106.  
    21.    Martin G, Pear J. Behavior modiﬁ  cation: what it is 
and how to do it. 6th ed. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: 
Prentice-Hall; 1998.  
    22.    Watson JB. Psychology as the behaviorist views it. 
Psychol Rev. 1913;20:158–77.  
    23.   Moses E. An athlete’s Rx for the drug problem. 
 Newsweek.   1988;Oct. 10:57.  
    24.    Asch SE. Opinions and social pressures. Sci Am. 
1955;193:31–5.  
   25.    Okun MA, Karoly P, Lutz R. Clarifying the contribu-
tion of subjective norm to predicting leisure-time 
exercise. Am J Health Behav. 2002;26:296–305.  
    26.    Reno RR, Cialdini RB, Kallgren CA. The transsitu-
ational inﬂ  uence of norms. J Pers Soc Psychol. 
1993;64:104–12.  
      27.    Ajzen I, Fishbein M. The inﬂ  uence of attitudes on 
behavior. In: Albarracin D, Johnson BT, Zanna MP, 
editors. The handbook of attitudes. Mahwah, NJ: 
Erlbaum; 2005. p. 173–221.  
     28.    Conner M, Kirk SF, Cade JE, Barrett JH. Why do 
women use dietary supplements? The use of the 
theory of planned behaviour to explore beliefs about 
their use. Soc Sci Med. 2001;52:621–33.  
    29.    Perloff RM. The dynamics of persuasion. Hillsdale, 
NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum; 1993.  
    30.    Rosenthal R. The “ﬁ  le drawer problem” and toler-
ance for null results. Psychol Bull. 1979;86:638–41.  
    31.    Scargle JD. Publication bias: the “ﬁ  le-drawer” prob-
lem in scientiﬁ  c inference. J Sci Explor. 2000;14:
91–106.  
    32.    Heider F. The psychology of interpersonal relations. 
New York: Wiley; 1958.  2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

44
     33.    Ames C. Classrooms: goals, structures, and student 
motivation. J Educ Psychol. 1993;84:261–71.  
    34.    Dweck C. Motivational processes affecting learning. 
Am Psychol. 1986;41:1040–8.  
    35.    Nicholls JG. The competitive ethos and democratic 
education. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University 
Press; 1989.  
    36.    Sarrazin P, Biddle S, Famose JP, Cury F, Fox K, 
Durand M. Goal orientations and conceptions of the 
nature of sport ability in children: a social cognitive 
approach. Br J Soc Psychol. 1996;35:399–414.  
    37.    Duda JL, Olson LK, Templin TJ. The relationship of 
task and ego orientation to sportsmanship attitudes 
and the perceived legitimacy of injurious acts. Res Q 
Exerc Sport. 1991;62:79–87.  
    38.    Flegal KM, Carroll MD, Ogden CL, Johnson CL. 
Prevalence and trends in obesity among US adults, 
1999-2000. JAMA. 2002;288:1723–7.  
    39.    Owen PR, Laurel-Seller E. Weight and shape ideals: 
thin is dangerously in. J App Soc Psychol. 
2000;30:979–90.  
     40.    Hart EH, Leary MR, Rejeski WJ. The measurement 
of social physique anxiety. J Sport Exerc Psychol. 
1989;11:94–104.  
    41.    Hausenblas HA, Fallon EA. Relationship among 
body image, exercise behavior, and exercise dep-
endence symptoms. Int J Eat Disord. 2002;32:
179–85.  
     42.    Martin Ginis KA, Strong HA, Arent SM, Bray SR. 
The effects of threatened social evaluation of the 
physique on cortisol activity. Psychol Health. 2012;
27:990–1007.  
     43.    American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and sta-
tistical manual of mental disorders. 4th ed. Washington, 
DC: American Psychiatric Association; 1994.  
    44.    Celio CI, Luce KH, Bryson SW, Winzelberg AJ, 
Cunning D, Rockwell R, Celio Doyle AA, Wilﬂ  ey 
DE, Taylor CB. Use of diet pills and other dieting 
aids in a college population with high weight and 
shape concerns. Int J Eat Disord. 2006;39:492–7.  
       45.    Pope Jr HG, Phillips KA, Olivardia R. The Adonis 
complex: the secret crisis of male body obsession. 
New York: Free; 2000.  
     46.    Pope Jr HG, Katz DL, Hudson JI. Anorexia nervosa 
and “reverse anorexia” among 108 male bodybuild-
ers. Compr Psychiatry. 1993;34:406–9.  
    47.    Pope Jr HG, Gruber AJ, Choi P, Olivardia R, Phillips 
KA. Muscle dysmorphia: an underrecognized form 
of body dysmorphic disorder. Psychosomatics. 
1997;38:548–57.  
     48.    Hildebrandt T, Langenbucher J, Schlundt DG. 
Muscularity concerns among men: development of 
attitudinal and perceptual measures. Body Image. 
2004;1:169–81.  
     49.    Raevuori A, Keski-Rahkonen A, Bulik CM, Rose 
RJ, Rissanen A, Kaprio J. Muscle dissatisfaction in 
young adult men. Clin Pract Epidemiol Ment Health. 
2006;2:6.  
    50.    Chittester NI, Hausenblas HA. Correlates of drive 
for muscularity: the role of anthropometric measures and psychological factors. J Health Psychol. 2009;
14:872–7.  
    51.    Bond A, Choi PYL, Pope HG. Assessment of atten-
tional bias and mood in users and non-users of 
anabolic- androgenic steroids. Drug Alchol Depend. 
1995;37:241–5.  
   52.    Choi PY . Alarming effects of anabolic steroids. 
Psychologist. 1993;6:258–60.  
   53.    Dalby JT. Brief anabolic steroid use and sustained 
behavioral reaction. Am J Psychiatry. 1992;149:
271–2.  
   54.    Pope HG, Katz DL. Psychiatric and medical effects 
of anabolic-androgenic steroid use. Arch Gen 
Psychiatry. 1994;51:375–82.  
     55.    Su T, Pagliaro M, Schmidt PJ, Pickar D, Wolkowitz 
O, Rubinow DR. Neuropsychiatric effects of ana-
bolic steroid in male normal volunteers. JAMA. 
1993;269:2760–4.  
     56.    O’Connor DB, Archer J, Hair WM, Wu FCW. 
Exogenous testosterone, aggression, and mood in 
eugonadal and hypogonadal men. Physiol Behav. 
2002;75:557–66.  
    57.    Pope HG, Kouri EM, Hudson JI. Effects of supra-
physiological doses of testosterone on mood and 
aggression in normal men. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 
2000;57:133–40.  
    58.    Tricker R, Casaburi R, Storer TW, Clevenger B, 
Berman N, Shirazi A, Bhasin S. The effects of sup-
raphysiological doses of testosterone on angry 
behavior in healthy eugonadal men: a clinical 
research center study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 
1996;81:3754–8.  
      59.    Ernst E. The risk-beneﬁ  t proﬁ  le of commonly used 
herbal therapies: Ginkgo, St. John’s Wort, ginseng, 
echinacea, saw palmetto, and Kava. Ann Intern Med. 
2002;136:42–53.  
     60.    Kruk B, Chmura J, Krzeminski K, Ziemba AW, 
Nazar K, Pekkarinen H, Kaciuba-Uscilko H. 
Inﬂ uence of caffeine, cold and exercise on multiple 
choice reaction time. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 
2001;157:197–201.  
    61.    Sinclair CJ, Geiger JD. Caffeine use in sports: a 
pharmacological review. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 
2000;40:71–9.  
    62.    Doyle T, Arent SM, Lutz RS. Dose-response effects 
of caffeine on performance in college fencers. 
J Strength Cond Res. 2006;20, e41.  
   63.    Kenemans JL, Lorist MM. Caffeine and selective 
visual processing. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1995;
52:461–71.  
      64.    Rees K, Allen D, Lader M. The inﬂ  uences of age and 
caffeine on psychomotor and cognitive function. 
Psychopharmacology. 1999;145:181–8.  
   65.    Fine BJ, Kobrick L, Lieberman HR, Marlowe B, 
Riley RH, Tharion WJ. Effects of caffeine or diphen-
hydramine on visual vigilance. Psychopharmacology 
(Berl). 1994;114:233–8.  
    66.    Koelega HS. Stimulant drugs and vigilance perfor-
mance: a review. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 1993;
111:1–16.  S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

45
     67.    Reyner LA, Horne JA. Early morning driver 
 sleepiness: effectiveness of 200 mg caffeine. Psy-
cho physiology. 2000;37:251–6.  
   68.    Lorist MM, Snel J, Kok A, Mulder G. Inﬂ  uence of caf-
feine on selective attention in well-rested and fatigued 
subjects. Psychophysiology. 1994;31:525–34.  
    69.    Patat A, Rosenzwieg P, Enslen M, Trocherie S, 
Miget N, Bozon MC, Allain H, Gandon JM. Effects 
of a new slow release formulation of caffeine on 
EEG, psychomotor and cognitive functions in sleep 
deprived subjects. Hum Psychopharmacol Clin Exp. 
2000;15:153–70.  
    70.    Smith A. Effects of repeated doses of caffeine on 
mood and performance of alert and fatigued volun-
teers. J Psychopharmacol. 2005;19:620–6.  
    71.    Lieberman HR, Tharion WJ, Shukitt-Hale B, 
Speckman KL, Tulley R. Effects of caffeine, sleep 
loss, and stress on cognitive performance and 
mood during U.S. Navy SEAL training. Psycho-
pharmacology (Berl). 2002;164:250–61.  
    72.    Bovim G, Naess P, Helle J, Sand T. Caffeine inﬂ  u-
ence on the motor steadiness battery in neuropsy-
chological tests. J Clin Exp Neuropsychol. 1995;
17:472–6.  
    73.    Loke WH, Hinrichs JV , Ghoneim MM. Caffeine and 
diazepam: separate and combined effects on mood, 
memory, and psychomotor performance. Psycho-
pharmacology (Berl). 1985;87:344–50.  
    74.    Tikuisis P, Keefe AA, McLellan TM, Kamimori G. 
Caffeine restores engagement speed but not shooting 
precision following 22 h of active wakefulness. Aviat 
Space Environ Med. 2004;75:771–6.  
    75.    Gillingham RL, Keefe AA, Tikuisis P. Acute caf-
feine intake before and after fatiguing exercise 
improves target shooting engagement time. Aviat 
Space Environ Med. 2004;75:865–71.  
     76.    Ferrauti A, Weber K, Struder HK. Metabolic and 
ergogenic effects of carbohydrate and caffeine bev-
erages in tennis. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 1997;
37:258–66.  
    77.    Hogervorst E, Bandelow S, Schmitt J, Jentjens R, 
Oliveira M, Allgrove J, Carter T, Gleeson M. 
Caffeine improves physical and cognitive perfor-
mance during exhaustive exercise. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 2008;40:1841–51.  
      78.    Ruijter J, Lorist LM, Snel J, De Ruiter M. The inﬂ  u-
ence of caffeine on sustained attention: an ERP 
study. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2000;66:29–37.  
    79.    Huang Z-L, Qu W-M, Eguchi N, et al. Adenosine 
A2A, but not A1, receptors mediate the arousal 
effect of caffeine. Nat Neurosci. 2005;8:858–9.  
    80.    Ross GW, Abbott RD, Petrovich H, et al. Relationship 
between caffeine intake and Parkinson’s disease. 
JAMA. 2000;283:2674–9.  
    81.    Ferré S, Fredholm BB, Morelli M, Popoli P, Fuxe K. 
Adenosine-dopamine receptor-receptor interactions 
as an integrative mechanism in the basal ganglia. 
Trends Neurosci. 1997;20:482–7.  
    82.    Garrett BE, Grifﬁ  ths RR. The role of dopamine in 
the behavioral effects of caffeine in animals and humans. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1997;57:
533–41.  
    83.    Schwarzschild MA, Chen J-F, Ascherio A. 
Caffeinated clues and the promise of adenosine A2A 
antagonists in PD. Neurology. 2002;58:1154–60.  
    84.    Kitagawa M, Houzen H, Tashiro K. Effects of caf-
feine on the freezing of gait in Parkinson’s disease. 
Mov Disord. 2007;22:710–2.  
    85.    Gilbert DG, Dibb WD, Plath LC, Hiyane SG. Effects 
of nicotine and caffeine, separately and in combina tion, 
on EEG topography, mood, heart rate, cortisol, and 
vigilance. Psychophysiology. 2000;37:583–95.  
    86.    Lovallo WR, al’Absi M, Blick K, et al. Stress-like 
adrenocorticotropin responses to caffeine in young 
healthy men. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 1996;55:
365–9.  
    87.    al’Absi M, Lovallo WR, Sung BH, et al. Persistent 
adrenocortical sensitivity to caffeine in borderline 
hypertensive men. FASEB J. 1993;7:A552.  
     88.    al’Absi M, Lovallo WR, McKey B, Sung BH, 
Whitsett TL, Wilson MF. Hypothalamic-pituitary- 
adrenocortical responses to psychological stress and 
caffeine in men at high and low risk for hyperten-
sion. Psychosom Med. 1998;60:521–7.  
    89.    Blanchard J, Sawers SJA. Comparative pharmacoki-
netics of caffeine in young and elderly men. 
J Pharmacokinet Biopharm. 1983;11:109–26.  
     90.    Jacobson BH, Thurman-Lacey SR. Effect of caffeine 
on motor performance by caffeine-naïve and -famil-
iar subjects. Percept Mot Skills. 1992;74:151–7.  
    91.    Mikalsen A, Bertelsen B, Flaten MA. Effects of caf-
feine, caffeine-associated stimuli, and caf feine- related 
information on physiological and psychological 
arousal. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2001;157:
373–80.  
    92.    Wyss M, Schulze A. Health implications of creatine: 
can oral creatine supplementation protect against 
neurological and atherosclerotic disease? 
Neuroscience. 2002;112:243–60.  
     93.    Faul M, Xu L, Wald MM, Coronado VG. Traumatic 
brain injury in the United States: emergency depart-
ment visits, hospitalizations, and deaths. Atlanta, GA: 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National 
Center for Injury Prevention and Control; 2010.  
    94.    Gilchrist J, Thomas KE, Xu L, McGuire LC, 
Coronado VG. Nonfatal sports and recreation related 
traumatic brain injuries among children and adoles-
cents treated in emergency departments in the United 
States, 2001-2009. MMWR. 2011;60:1337–42.  
       95.    Sullivan PG, Geiger JD, Mattson MP, Scheff SW. 
Dietary supplement creatine protects against trau-
matic brain injury. Ann Neurol. 2000;48:723–9.  
     96.    Klivenyi P, Ferrante RJ, Matthews RT, et al. 
Neuroprotective effects of creatine in a transgenic 
animal model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Nat 
Med. 1999;5:347–50.  
    97.    Klivenyi P, Calingasan NY , Starkov A, et al. 
Neuroprotective mechanisms of creatine occur in the 
absence of mitochondrial creatine kinase. Neurobiol 
Dis. 2004;15:610–7.  2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

46
    98.    Rae C, Digney AL, McEwan SR, Bates TC. Oral 
creatine monohydrate supplementation improves 
brain performance: a double-blind, placebo- 
controlled, cross-over trial. Proc R Soc Lond [Biol]. 
2003;270:2147–50.  
     99.    Watanabe A, Kato N, Kato T. Effects of creatine on 
mental fatigue and cerebral hemoglobin oxygen-
ation. Neurosci Res. 2002;42(4):279–85.  
    100.    Jacobus WE, Difﬂ  ey DM. Creatine kinase of heart 
mitochondria: control of oxidative phosphorylation 
by the extramitochondrial concentrations of creatine 
and phosphocreatine. J Biol Chem. 1986;261:
16579–83.  
     101.    Sakellaris GS, Partalis NI, Nasis GD, Kotsiou ME, 
Tamiolaki MD, Bouloukaki EH, Evangeliou AN. 
Outcome of traumatic dysarthria and lingual prob-
lems of understanding with creatine administration. 
An open label randomized pilot study. J Trauma 
Treat. 2012;1:120.  
     102.    Ferrante RJ, Andreassen OA, Jenkins BG, et al. 
Neuroprotective effects of creatine in a transgenic 
mouse model of Huntington’s disease. J Neurosci. 
2000;20:4389–97.  
    103.    Mangiarini L, Sathasivam K, Seller M, et al. Exon 1 
of the HD gene with an expanded CAG repeat is suf-
ﬁ cient to cause a progressive neurological phenotype 
in transgenic mice. Cell. 1996;87:493–506.  
      104.    Matthews RT, Yang L, Jenkins BG, et al. 
Neuroprotective effects of creatine and cyclocreatine 
in animal models of Huntington’s disease. J Neurosci. 
1998;18:156–63.  
    105.    Verbessem P, Lemiere J, Eijnde BO, et al. Creatine 
supplementation in Huntington’s disease: a placebo- 
controlled pilot trial. Neurology. 2003;61:925–30.  
     106.    Mahady GB. Ginkgo biloba: a review of quality, 
safety, and efﬁ  cacy. Nutr Clin Care. 2001;4:140–7.  
       107.    Kleijnen J, Knipschild P. Ginkgo biloba for cerebral 
insufﬁ  ciency. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 1992;34:352–8.  
    108.    Lingaerde O, Foreland AR, Magnusson A. Can win-
ter depression be prevented by Ginkgo biloba 
extract? A placebo-controlled trial. Acta Psychiatr 
Scand. 1999;100:62–6.  
    109.    Hopfenmüller W. Evidence for a therapeutic effect 
of Ginkgo biloba special extract: meta-analysis of 11 
clinical studies in patients with cerebrovascular 
insufﬁ  ciency in old age. Arzneimittelforschung. 
1994;44:1005–13.  
   110.    Oken BS, Storzbach DM, Kaye JA. The efﬁ  cacy of 
Ginkgo biloba on cognitive function in Alzheimer’s 
disease. Arch Neurol. 1998;55:1409–15.  
      111.   Birks J, Grimly Evans J. Ginkgo biloba for cognitive 
impairment and dementia. Cochrane Database Syst 
Rev. 2007;(2):CD003120.  
    112.    Scholey AB, Kennedy DO. Acute, dose-dependent 
cognitive effects of Ginkgo biloba, Panax ginseng 
and their combination in healthy young volunteers: 
differential interactions with cognitive demand. 
Hum Psychopharmacol Clin Exp. 2002;17:35–44.        113.    Gertz H-J, Kiefer M. Review about Ginkgo biloba 
special extract EGb 761 (Ginkgo). Curr Pharm Des. 
2004;10:261–4.  
    114.    Butterﬁ  eld DA, Howard B, Yatin S, et al. Elevated 
oxidative stress in models of normal brain aging and 
Alzheimer’s disease. Life Sci. 1999;65:1883–92.  
    115.    Vining Smith J, Luo Y . Elevation of oxidative free 
radicals in Alzheimer’s disease models can be atten-
uated by Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761. J 
Alzheimers Dis. 2003;5:287–300.  
    116.    Tchantchou F, Xu Y , Wu Y , Christen Y , Luo Y . EGb 
761 enhances adult hippocampal neurogenesis and 
phosphorylation of CREB in transgenic mouse 
model of Alzheimer’s disease. FASEB J. 2007;21:
2400–8.  
    117.    Letenneur L, Proust-Lima C, Le Gouge A, Dartigues 
JF, Barberger-Gateau P. Flavonoid intake and cogni-
tive decline over a 10-year period. Am J Epidemiol. 
2007;165(12):1364–71 [Epub ahead of print].  
    118.    Grodstein F, Chen J, Willett WC. High-dose antioxi-
dant supplements and cognitive function in 
community- dwelling elderly women. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2003;77:975–84.  
    119.    Kanowski S, Herrmann WM, Stephan K, Wierich W, 
Horr R. Proof of efﬁ  cacy of the Ginkgo biloba spe-
cial extract EGb 761 in outpatients suffering from 
mild to moderate primary degenerative dementia of 
Alzheimer type or multi-infarct dementia. Pharma-
copsychiatria. 1996;29:47–56.  
    120.    LeBars PL, Katz MM, Berman N, Itil TM, Freedman 
AM, Schatzberg A. A placebo-controlled, double- 
blind, randomized trial of an extract of Ginkgo 
biloba for dementia. JAMA. 1997;278:1327–32.  
     121.    LeBars PL, Velasco FM, Ferguson JM, Dessain EC, 
Kieser M, Hoerr R. Inﬂ  uence of the severity of cog-
nitive impairment on the effect of the Ginkgo biloba 
extract EGB 761 in Alzheimer’s disease. Neuro-
psychobiology. 2002;45:19–26.  
    122.    van Dongen M, van Rossum E, Kessels A, Sielhorst 
H, Knipschild P. Ginkgo for elderly people with 
dementia and age-associated memory impairment: a 
randomized clinical trial. J Clin Epidemiol. 2003;
56:367–76.  
    123.    Ihl R, Tribanek M, Bachinskaya N. Efﬁ  cacy and tol-
erability of a once daily formulation of Ginkgo 
biloba extract EGb 761 in Alzheimer’s disease and 
vascular dementia: results from a randomized con-
trolled trial. Pharmacopsychiatry. 2012;45:41–6.  
     124.    Kim HL, Streltzer J, Goebert D. St. John’s wort for 
depression: a meta-analysis of well-deﬁ  ned clinical 
trials. J Nerv Ment Dis. 1999;187:532–9.  
   125.    Linde K, Ramirez G, Mulrow CD, Pauls A, 
Weidenhammer W, Melchart D. St. John’s wort for 
depression—an overview and meta-analysis of ran-
domized clinical trials. BMJ. 1996;313:253–8.  
    126.      Linde K, Mulrow CD. St. John’s wort for depres-
sion (Cochrane Review). Cochrane Database Syst 
Rev. 1998;(4):CD000448.  S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

47
   127.    Gaster B. Holroyd. St. John’s wort for depression: a 
systematic review. Arch Intern Med. 2000;160:
152–6.  
     128.    Whiskey E, Werneke U, Taylor D. A systematic 
review and meta-analysis of Hypericum perforatum 
in depression: a comprehensive clinical review. Int 
Clin Psychopharmacol. 2001;16:239–52.  
    129.    Williams JW, Mulrow CD, Chiquette E. A system-
atic review of new pharmacotherapies for depression 
in adults. Ann Intern Med. 2000;132:743–56.  
     130.    Szegedi A, Kohnen R, Dienel A, Kieser M. Acute 
treatment of moderate to severe depression with 
hypericum extract WS 5570 (St John’s wort): ran-
domized controlled double blind non-inferiority trial 
versus paroxetine. BMJ. 2005. doi:  10.1136/bmj.
38356.655266.82    .  
      131.    Barnes J, Anderson LA, Phillipson JD. St. John’s 
wort (Hypericum perforatum L.): a review of its 
chemistry, pharmacology and clinical properties.
J Pharm Pharmacol. 2001;53:583–600.  
    132.    Bilia AR, Gallori S, Vincieri FF. St. John’s wort and 
depression: efﬁ  cacy, safety, and tolerability—an 
update. Life Sci. 2002;70(26):3077–96.  
     133.    Shelton RC, Keller MB, Gelenberg A, et al. 
Effectiveness of St. John’s wort in major depression: 
a randomized controlled trial. JAMA. 2001;285:
1978–86.  
   134.    Lecrubier Y , Clerc G, Didi R, Kieser M. Efﬁ  cacy of 
St. John’s wort extract WS 5570 in major depres-
sion: a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Am J 
Psychiatry. 2002;159:1361–6.  
    135.    Fava M, Alpert J, Nierenberg AA, et al. A double- 
blind, randomized trial of St. John’s wort, ﬂ  uoxetine, 
and placebo in major depressive disorder. J Clin 
Psychopharmacol. 2005;25:441–7.  
      136.    Chatterjee SS, Nolder M, Koch E, Erdelmeier C. 
Antidepressant activity of hypericum perforatum 
and hyperforin: the neglected possibility. Pharma-
copsychiatry. 1998;31:7–15.  
     137.    Müller WE, Singer A, Wonnemann M, Hafner U, 
Rolli M, Schäfer C. Hyperforin represents the neu-
rotransmitter reuptake inhibiting constituent of 
hypericum extract. Pharmacopsychiatry. 1998;31:
16–21.  
    138.    Müller WE, Rolli M, Schäfer C, Hafner U. Effects of 
hypericum extract in biochemical models of anti- 
depressant activity. Pharmacopsychiatry. 1997;30:
102–7.  
    139.    Wonnemann M, Singer A, Müller WE. Inhibition of 
synaptosomal uptake of 3H-L-glutamate and 
3H-GABA by hyperforin, a major constituent of St. 
John’s wort: the role of amiloride sensitive sodium 
conductive pathways. Neuropsychopharmacology. 
2000;23:188–97.  
    140.    Fiebich BL, Höllig A, Lieb K. Inhibition of sub-
stance P-induced cytokine synthesis by St. John’s 
wort extracts. Pharmacopsychiatry. 2001;34:S26–8.      141.    Cott JM. In vitro receptor binding and enzyme inhi-
bition by Hypericum perforatum extract. Pharma-
copsychiatry. 1997;30:108–12.  
      142.    Madabushi R, Frank B, Drewelow B, Derendorf H, 
Butterweck V . Hyperforin in St. John’s wort 
drug interactions. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2006;62:
225–33.  
    143.    Müller WE, Rolli M, Schäfer C, Hafner U. Effects of 
Hypericum extract on the expression of serotonin 
receptors. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 1994;7:63–4.  
    144.    Demmott K. St. John’s wort tied to serotonin syn-
drome. Clin Psychiatry News. 1998;26:28.  
    145.    Landers DM, Arent SM. Exercise and mental health. 
In: Eklund RC, Tenenbaum G, editors. The handbook 
of sport psychology. 3rd ed. New York: Wiley; 2007. 
p. 469–91.  
        146.    Kidd PM. Omega-3 DHA and EPA for cognition, 
behavior, and mood: clinical ﬁ  ndings and structural- 
functional synergies with cell membrane phospho-
lipids. Altern Med Rev. 2007;12:207–27.  
     147.    Freund-Levi Y , Eriksdotter-Jönhagen M, Cederholm 
T, Basun H, Faxén-Irving G, Garlind A, Vedin I, 
Vessby B, Wahlund L, Palmblad J. ω-3 fatty acid 
treatment in 174 patients with mild to moderate 
Alzheimer’s disease: OmegAD study. A randomized 
double-blind trial. Arch Neurol. 2006;63:1402–8.  
     148.    Cole GM, Ma Q-L, Frautschy SA. Omega-3 fatty 
acids and dementia. Prostaglandins Leukot Essent 
Fatty Acids. 2009;81:213–21.  
    149.    Fontani G, Corradeschi F, Felici A, Alfatti F, 
Migliorini S, Lodi L. Cognitive and physiological 
effects of Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid sup-
plementation in healthy subjects. Eur J Clin Invest. 
2005;35:691–9.  
      150.    Richardson AJ, Puri BK. A randomized double- 
blind, placebo-controlled study of the effects of 
supplementation with highly unsaturated fatty acids 
on ADHD-related symptoms in children with speciﬁ  c 
learning difﬁ  culties. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol 
Biol Psychiatry. 2002;26:233–9.  
    151.    Stevens LJ, Zentall SS, Abate ML, Kuczek T, Burges 
JR. Omega-3 fatty acids in boys with behavior, 
learning, and health problems. Physiol Behav. 
1996;59:915–20.  
    152.    V oigt RG, Llorente AM, Jensen CL, Fraley JK, 
Berretta MC, Heird WC. A randomized, double- 
blind, placebo-controlled trial of docosahexaenoic 
acid supplementation in children with attention- 
deﬁ cit/hyperactivity disorder. J Pediatr. 2001;139:
189–96.  
   153.    Hirayama S, Hamazaki T, Terasawa K. Effects of 
docosahexaenoic acid-containing food administra-
tion on symptoms of attention-deﬁ  cit/hyperactivity 
disorder—a placebo-controlled double-blind study. 
Eur J Clin Nutr. 2004;58:467–73.  
   154.    Hamazaki T, Hirayama S. The effect of docosa-
hexaenoic acid-containing food administration on 2 The Psychology of Supplementation in Sport and Exercise…

48
symptoms of attention-deﬁ  cit/hyperactivity disor-
der—a placebo-controlled double-blind study. Eur J 
Clin Nutr. 2004;58:838.  
    155.    Stevens L, Zhang W, Peck L, Kuczek T, Grevstad N, 
Mahon A, Zentall SS, Arnold LE, Burgess JR. EFA 
supplementation in children with inattention, hyper-
activity, and other disruptive behaviors. Lipids. 
2003;38:1007–21.  
     156.    Sinclair AJ, Begg D, Mathai M, Weisinger RS. 
Omega 3 fatty acids and the brain: review of studies 
in depression. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2007;16:391–7.  
     157.    Mills JD, Hadley K, Bailes JE. Dietary supplementa-
tion with the omega-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic 
acid in traumatic brain injury. Neurosurgery. 
2011;68:474–81.  
      158.    Mills JD, Bailes JE, Sedney CL, Hutchins H, Sears 
B. Omega-3 fatty acid supplementation and reduc-
tion of traumatic axonal injury in a rodent head 
injury model. J Neurosurg. 2011;114:77–84.  
       159.    Wu A, Ying Z, Gomez-Pinilla F. Dietary omega-3 
fatty acids normalize BDNF levels, reduce oxidative 
damage, and counteract learning disability after trau-
matic brain injury in rats. J Neurotrauma. 2004;21:
1457–67.  
    160.    Lespérance F, Frasure-Smith N, St-André E, Turecki 
G, Lespérance P, Wisniewski SR. The efﬁ  cacy of 
omega-3 supplementation for major depression: a randomized controlled trial. J Clin Psychiatry. 
2011;72:1054–62.  
    161.    Martins JG. EPA but not DHA appears to be respon-
sible for the efﬁ  cacy of omega-3 long chain polyun-
saturated fatty acid supplementation in depression: 
evidence from a meta-analysis of randomized 
 controlled trials. J Am Coll Nutr. 2009;28:525–42.  
    162.    Marangell LB, Martinez JM, Zboyan HA, Kertz B, 
Seung Kim HF, Puryear LJ. A double-blind, 
placebo- controlled study of the omega-3 fatty 
acid docosahexaenoic acid in the treatment of 
major depression. Am J Psychiatry. 2003;160:
996–8.  
    163.    Bloch MH, Hannestad J. Omega-3 fatty acids for the 
treatment of depression: systematic review and 
meta-analysis. Mol Psychiatry. 2012;17:1272–82.  
     164.    Lin P-Y , Mischoulon D, Freeman MP, Matsuoka Y , 
Hibbeln J, Belmaker RH, Su K-P. Are omega-3 fatty 
acids anti-depressants or just mood-improving 
agents? Mol Psychiatry. 2012;17:1161–3.  
    165.    Rogers PJ, Appleton KM, Kessler D, Peters TJ, 
Gunnell D, Hayward RC, Heatherley SV , Christian 
LM, McNaughton SA, Ness AR. No effect of n-3 
long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (EPA and 
DHA) supplementation on depressed mood and cog-
nitive function: a randomised controlled trial. Br J 
Nutr. 2008;99:421–31.     S.M. Arent and R.S. Lutz

Part II
Nutritional Basics First

51 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_3      The Role of Nutritional 
Supplements Complementing 
Nutrient-Dense Diets: General 
Versus Sport/Exercise-Speciﬁ  c 
Dietary Guidelines Related 
to Energy Expenditure 
           Susan     M. Kleiner       and     Mike     Greenwood    
    Abstract  
  A nutrient-dense diet is a critical aspect in attaining optimal exercise train ing, 
recovery, and athletic performance outcomes. While including safe and 
effective nutritional supplements in the dietary design can be extremely 
helpful in promoting adequate caloric and nutrient ingestion, they are not 
a complete cure in promoting adequate caloric ingestion based on indi-
vidualized caloric expenditure needs without the proper diet. Speciﬁ  cally, 
a strategic and scientiﬁ  cally based nutrient-dense dietary proﬁ  le should be 
created by qualiﬁ  ed professionals to meet the sport/exercise-speciﬁ  c 
energy and nutrient demands of any individual involved in select training 
intensity protocols. Finally, ingesting the right quantity and quality of 
nutrient-dense calories at precise windows of opportunity becomes vital in 
attaining desired training and/or competitive performance outcomes.  
  Keywords  
  Nutrient dense   •   Nutritional Supplements   •   Caloric intake   •   Caloric expen-
diture   •   Nutrient timing   •   Restoration   •   Macronutrient proﬁ  les  
3.1         Establishing Adequate 
Dietary Foundations 
 One of the important differences between any 
athlete and a champion is the keen ability to pay 
attention to details regarding a variety of training 
categories. While one might think that the 
 important details of sports nutrition center on tar-
geting the right supplements, that assumption 
could not be further from the truth. Nothing is 
more important than a good nutritional founda tion.         S.M.   Kleiner ,  PhD, RD, CNS, FISSN      ( *) 
  High Performance Nutrition LLC , 
  7683 SE 27th Street, PMB 167 , 
 Mercer Island ,  WA   98040 ,  USA   
 e-mail: susan@drskleiner.com    
    M.   Greenwood ,  PhD, FISSN, FNSCA, FACSM, 
RSCC *D, CSCS *D    
  Department of Health & Kinesiology , 
 Texas A & M University ,   College Station ,  TX ,  USA     3

52
This chapter focuses on the details of nutrient 
density, how to pack in the most nutrition for 
every calorie that you eat from food, putting your 
food to work for you. By maximizing nutrient 
density, your body will be primed to respond to 
the supplements that you may choose to add to 
enhance your nutrition program. Build a strong 
nutritional foundation and your optimal health, 
ﬁ tness, and performance outcomes will follow.  
3.2     Nutrient Density Deﬁ  ned 
 The most important factor in an athlete’s diet is 
the amount of energy available. Calories (or 
joules) are the key to activity, to feeling ener-
gized, to building muscle, to increasing power, 
and to fueling endurance. Hand in hand with cal-
ories are the nutrients that you consume per calo-
rie. If one just focuses on getting enough calories 
to fuel activity, foods high in simple sugars and 
fats would be the ideal choices. There is no doubt 
that this would fuel exercise. However, a diet 
robust in calories, along with the right composi-
tion of proteins, carbohydrates, healthy fats, vita-
mins, minerals, and other notable food factors, 
will catalyze metabolism and tissue building, get-
ting the athlete further in training at a faster rate, 
with a superior outcome. 
 A common example of nutrient density is 
comparing a sports drink to orange juice and 
water (see Table  3.1 ). Even if you doubled the amount of sports drink to make the calories 
equivalent to orange juice, the nutrient density is 
not even close.
   The sports drink is the performance beverage of 
choice during exercise to promote rehydration and 
glucose/electrolyte replenishment. If a sports drink 
is the beverage of choice all day long, then many 
calories will add up without any further nutrition. 
If orange juice is chosen as a beverage during the 
day, there is greater density of nutrients per calo-
rie, building the nutritional foundation throughout 
the day. Finally, water adds no calories and a minor 
amount of nutrients, but the ongoing ﬂ  uid replace-
ment is essential for an athlete. By eliminating 
“empty calories” from sports drinks during non-
exercise times, the athlete can eat more nutrient-
dense foods, allowing for a greater amount and 
variety of nutrients in the diet and enhancing the 
nutritional foundation for performance.  
3.3     The Nutrient-Dense Diet 
 It is often assumed that a nutrient-dense diet is 
also a diet full of variety, but this should not be 
taken for granted. One could easily have a diet 
that is high in certain nutrients, but missing oth-
ers due to the elimination of an entire food group. 
For instance, if dairy is eliminated from the diet, 
one could easily consume enough of most nutri-
ents, but it would be difﬁ  cult to consume enough 
calcium and vitamin D. Along with choosing 
foods that are dense in nutrients, a nutrient-dense 
diet must also be rich in a variety of foods from 
all the food groups to be most readily and efﬁ  -
ciently both nutritionally dense and complete 
(see Table  3.2 ).
   In addition to choosing a variety of foods from 
all of the food groups, a variety of foods from 
within each food group should also be selected. 
For example, one could select only wheat bread, 
apples, celery, yogurt, hamburger, and butter to 
create a diet that includes foods from all the food 
groups. But if this is what was eaten each day it 
would not provide a nutritionally complete diet, 
despite representation from all of the food groups. 
Selecting apples, peaches, and grapefruits from 
the fruit group, celery, broccoli, and onions from    Table 3.1    Nutrient density ﬂ  uid comparisons   
 8 oz. sports 
drink  8 oz. orange 
juice  8 oz. 
water 
 Calories   50  112  0 
 Protein (g)  0  2  0 
 Carb (g)  14  27  0 
 Fat (g)  0  0  0 
 Vit A (IU)  0  266  0 
 Vit C (mg)  0  97  0 
 Folate (mg)  0  110  0 
 Ca (mg)  0  0  5 
 Mg (mg)  0  0  2 
 K (mg)  30  473  0 
 Na (mg)  110  2  5 S.M. Kleiner and M. Greenwood

53
the vegetable group, wheat, buckwheat, quinoa, 
peas, and winter squash from the grains and 
starches group, etc., represents variety among the 
food groups as well as from within each group.  
3.4     Nutritional Supplements 
Deﬁ  ned 
 Within the area of sports, performance- enhancing 
aids have been deﬁ  ned and classiﬁ  ed by Dr. 
Melvin H. Williams. Describing them as sports 
ergogenics, Dr. Williams categorizes them into 
nutritional aids, pharmacological aids, and physi-
ological aids. Nutritional supplements would fall 
under the category of nutritional aids and serve to 
“increase muscle tissue, muscle energy supplies, 
and the rate of energy production in the muscle.” 
Some nutritional supplements are also used to 
enhance mental focus and energy [ 1 ]. 
 Most nutritional supplements are obvious, but 
some are not as clear. Supplements included in 
the broad nutritional aids category include ﬂ  uid 
replacements, carbohydrates, fats, protein/amino 
acids and their metabolites, vitamins, minerals, 
plant extracts, miscellaneous food factors, phyto-
chemicals, probiotics, prebiotics, and engineered 
dietary supplements.  
3.5     The Role of Supplements 
in a Nutrient-Dense Diet 
 There are many circumstances where nutritional 
supplementation plays a very important role in 
both health and performance. The most common instance is when food groups or key foods in the 
diet must be eliminated intentionally due to food 
allergies or intolerances. Supplementation with 
the minerals and vitamins associated with bone 
health is essential when individuals are allergic to 
cow’s milk protein. Supplementation may come 
in the form of food fortiﬁ  cation, as with the addi-
tion of calcium and vitamins A and D to soymilk. 
Supplementation can also be in a daily dose of 
the nutrients through liquids, pills, or capsules. 
 Oftentimes the diet is unintentionally incom-
plete due to lack of nutritional knowledge, hectic 
lifestyle, or other reasons. In this case, daily mul-
tivitamin–mineral supplementation has been sug-
gested as an “insurance policy” for health 
promotion and disease prevention [ 2 ]. 
 The use of nutritional supplementation in 
sports is pursued with the goal of enhancing per-
formance. As stated above, in this case nothing 
can substitute for a complete, nutrient-dense diet 
from foods. However, there are circumstances 
where athletes beneﬁ  t from supplementation due 
to increased requirements but an inability to con-
sume increased amounts of nutrients from foods. 
An example of this may be protein. The protein 
requirements of a lightweight or middleweight 
strength and power athlete may be difﬁ  cult to 
meet with food alone. Since dense sources of 
protein most often occur with fats and/or carbo-
hydrates (egg whites are the exception here), the 
total caloric intake for the diet may be too high, 
or the foods too inconvenient to eat throughout 
the day. A powdered protein supplement can 
offer just pure protein that can be easily mixed 
with water anywhere during the athlete’s day. For 
any athlete, the convenience of dietary supple-
ments used in a targeted way in the diet, of which 
protein is one good example, is often the driving 
force for their use. 
 Athletes may also beneﬁ  t from increased 
amounts of speciﬁ  c nutrients, but will not neces-
sarily beneﬁ  t from consuming increasing 
amounts of the whole foods that are the source of 
those nutrients. Creatine is an excellent example 
of this notion. While the research is clear that 
many athletes will beneﬁ  t from creatine supple-
mentation, consuming enough creatine from food 
(meat) to achieve dose requirements would be 
both difﬁ  cult and unhealthy.    Table 3.2    Foundational food group categories   
 Grains, breads, and starches 
 Fruit 
 Non-starchy vegetables 
 Milk/dairy 
 Meat and meat substitutes 
  Very lean   
  Lean   
  Medium-fat   
  High-fat   
 Fats 3 The Role of Nutritional Supplements Complementing Nutrient-Dense Diets…

54
 In both of the above examples, nutritional 
supplementation plays an important role in per-
formance enhancement. However, neither of the 
supplements will be as effective if used in place 
of a nutrient-dense diet, rather an addition to a 
nutrient-dense diet.  
3.6     Designing 
a Nutrient-Dense Diet 
3.6.1     Establishing Viable Energy 
Requirements 
 Signs and symptoms associated with decrements 
in performance and health that are related to clin-
ical safety markers have been linked to a number 
of aspects including chronic caloric restrictions 
[ 3 ,  4 ]. In relation to establishing a solid nutri-
tional foundation, to adequately set the stage for 
reaching optimal training/performance outcomes 
one need not look any further than establishing a 
properly designed dietary plan. While this may 
seem to be an easy goal to accomplish, the com-
mitment, time, and costs often associated with a 
quality dietary strategy often make it difﬁ  cult to 
attain this option. It is a widely accepted fact that 
athletes involved with high-intensity training and 
competition do not ingest the right type and/or 
amounts of macronutrients to offset their energy 
expenditure. Conﬁ  rming this premise, utilizing a 
self-report measure, researchers recently reported 
that 405 Division I strength and power athletes’ 
{male = 191; female = 214} caloric intake did not 
match the recommended caloric intake require-
ments compared to their caloric expenditure dur-
ing their annual peroidized training cycles [ 5 ]. 
Speciﬁ  cally, 86 % of the participants surveyed 
reported being drastically below the scientiﬁ  cally 
based recommended macronutrient intake for 
strength/power athletes [ 3 – 5 ]. In fact over 79 % 
of the athletes reported being hungry during 
practice/training sessions and competitive events 
[ 5 ]. Finally, with the noted undernourished mac-
ronutrient levels, one could also question these 
athletes’ micronutrient dietary status, especially 
when 74 % of these participants reported never 
ingesting a multivitamin during the academic 
training year.  While nutritional supplementation is a viable 
alternative for athletes to consume and meet 
their dietary needs, it should be noted that this 
practice is not a healthy option to completely 
replace a quality nutrient-dense diet. This is 
exactly why it is referred to as nutritional supple-
mentation, to complement/supplement a prop-
erly designed nutrient-dense diet. In this section, 
nutritional necessities surrounding an “eat to 
compete” philosophy are addressed in relation to 
strategies to promote recovery of athletic and 
exercise populations. 
 The most critical aspect of establishing a 
properly implemented dietary strategy to accom-
plish optimal performance outcomes is to insure 
that exercise participants ingest quality caloric 
needs to balance speciﬁ  c energy expenditure [ 3 ,  4 ]. 
When considering this nutritional approach, it is 
always important to include and calculate indi-
vidual differences regarding select exercise 
training intensities. While RDA guidelines have 
been established regarding daily dietary con-
sumption for general populations, these sug-
gested initiatives really do not apply to athletic or 
exercise populations involved with intense train-
ing protocols because of greater caloric require-
ments. For example, daily caloric intake needs 
for untrained individuals are based on the num-
ber of kilocalories per kilogram of body weight 
per day which usually averages between 1,900 
and 3,000 kcal daily [ 6 – 8 ]. Without question, 
when adding various factors of exercise into 
the equation, the frequency, duration, and inten-
sity demands of the training protocol require 
increased nutritional intake to maintain an effec-
tive energy balance. Individuals involved in low-
intensity exercise lasting 30–40 min a day that is 
performed three times per week typically require 
1,800–2,400 kilocalories per day due to minimal 
physical exertion and energy expenditure [ 4 ,  7 ,  8 ]. 
Athletes undertaking moderate exercise proto-
cols deﬁ  ned as 5–6 times a week for 2–3 h a day 
or intense training 5–6 days a week 3–6 h a day 
obviously require greater dietary needs (2,500–
8,000 kcal/day depending on body weight) com-
pared to individuals involved in light exercise 
protocols [ 4 ,  8 ,  9 ]. When accurately evaluating 
the amount of caloric values needed for individu-
als involved in the previously mentioned levels of S.M. Kleiner and M. Greenwood

55
exercise training, it becomes increasingly evident 
that athletes have a difﬁ  cult time maintaining 
ingestion of enough calories by simply consum ing 
a well-balanced diet. Due to the enormous energy 
expenditure for high volume intensity training 
the combination of nutritional supplementation 
to a quality nutritional dietary proﬁ  le makes it 
much more feasible for athletes to consume 
enough energy to replace caloric needs. The 
proper replacement of caloric needs based on 
energy expenditure not only helps control a per-
son’s health status but heightens the recovery 
process needed for adaption to the exercise ses-
sion and future optimal training/performance 
bouts. While a balanced energy status is vital for 
all athletes in formalized training, this aspect 
becomes even more imperative for larger athletes 
who must consume huge amounts of quality cal-
ories to offset the energy expenditures acquired 
from high volume and intensity training. 
Obviously the ramiﬁ  cations of inappropriate 
dietary strategies can not only lead to tremendous 
weight loss but make the athlete more susceptible 
to the various signs and symptoms of physiologi-
cal and psychological decline. Further, there is 
scientiﬁ  c evidence that the athlete who under-
takes intense training has a greater preponderance 
to display suppressed appetites which increases 
the possibility of health risk factors and ultimately 
promotes performance decrements [ 10 ]. A great 
strategic plan is to develop a multidisciplinary 
team approach that combines athletic coaches, 
athletic trainers, sports nutritionists, strength and 
conditioning coaches, parents, and physicians to 
closely monitor and evaluate the athlete’s nutrient-
dense dietary status in an effort to maintain 
body weight and promote restoration, thereby 
promoting optimal performance outcomes. 
 While caloric ingestion concerns of larger 
athletes were previously mentioned, there are 
additional athletic groups that require close 
monitoring in relation to meeting caloric energy 
demands. Speciﬁ  cally, female athletes such as 
gymnasts, ﬁ  gure skaters, and distance runners 
can be highly susceptible to eating disorders and 
therefore place themselves in jeopardy of not 
meeting speciﬁ  c energy caloric needs. This can also hold true for athletes who participate in 
sports like horse racing (jockeys), boxing, and 
wrestling and select unsafe dietary strategies in 
order to make a particular weight class for 
competition.   
3.7     Determining Macronutrient 
Proﬁ  les 
 The goals of training and competition will guide 
the determination of dietary macronutrient pro-
ﬁ les. While the differences in the dietary recom-
mendations may appear small, research has shown 
that they lead to signiﬁ  cant differences in out-
comes in endurance enhancement, muscle growth, 
strength building, and power output. In all cases, 
adequate energy consumption is the most critical 
factor, with macronutrient distribution following 
close behind. For a very detailed discussion of 
research and nutrient-dense recommendations for 
energy and macronutrient proﬁ  les and diet plans, 
see  Power Eating, 4th Edition  [ 11 ]. 
3.7.1     Endurance Enhancement 
 Carbohydrates and fats are long-distance fuels. 
A diet low in either one will temper performance 
advancement. Protein is essential for repair and 
recovery of damaged tissues and to keep the 
body healthy as it is driven in distance and dura tion. 
Typical recommendations for carbohydrate are 
5–7 g/kg body weight per day for general train-
ing. With exercise of increased distance and 
duration, a carbohydrate intake of 8–10 g/kg/day 
has been shown to be a successful dietary strat-
egy for fueling performance. Male athletes are 
more likely to achieve these recommendations 
than female athletes. Due to their lower energy 
requirements, it is often difﬁ  cult to consume this 
much carbohydrate and maintain control of body 
weight, an essential factor in long-distance 
sports [ 12 ]. These calorie and carbohydrate deﬁ  -
cits can lead to disruption of metabolic control 
and are therefore essential to monitor in female 
and male athletes [ 13 ]. 3 The Role of Nutritional Supplements Complementing Nutrient-Dense Diets…

56
 The protein needs of endurance athletes are 
close to twice the Dietary Reference Intakes for 
the general population. According to research 
studies, an intake of 1.4–1.8 g/kg/day of protein 
is an important target for support of endurance 
exercise [ 14 ,  15 ]. 
 The difﬁ  culty with these recommendations is 
that once you add up the carbohydrate and pro-
tein needs of the diet, there is little room left for 
fat. However, the critical role that monounsatu-
rated and polyunsaturated fats play in health pro-
motion, disease prevention, hormone production, 
weight control, mood, and cognitive function 
requires their adequate inclusion in the diet. The 
proportion of calories from fat in the diet should 
not go below 25 % for any extensive length of 
time. The role of fats is so important that if calo-
ries are restricted it is advisable to reduce the pro-
portion of carbohydrates in the diet to leave room 
for adequate protein and fat [ 16 ]. However, with 
appreciable energy restriction, a lowering of 
energy output is advisable to avoid gross meta-
bolic disturbances [ 13 ].  
3.7.2     Weight Gain and Muscle 
Growth 
 There is little disagreement on the nutritional 
requirements of building strength and power. 
Carbohydrate is required to fuel muscle build-
ing and sports-speciﬁ  c exercise, protein is 
essential to tissue recovery, repair, and growth, 
and fat is essential for production of the hor-
mones that allow the entire anabolic process to 
move forward. 
 The protein needs of strength trainers and 
bodybuilders are higher than those of endurance 
athletes. When energy intake is adequate, protein 
needs during a building phase range from 2.0 to 
2.5 g/kg body weight per day and are closely 
linked to total energy consumption. Carbohydrate 
needs are lower than those of endurance athletes 
and range from 4.5 to 7.0 g/kg/day depending on 
intensity and frequency of training. Depending 
on energy intake, 25–30 % of total calories will 
come from healthy fats [ 11 ].   3.8     Nutritionally Dense 
Restoration Timing 
Consideration 
 The issue of rest and recovery for athletes 
involved with speciﬁ  c training intensities and 
competitive situations involves so much more 
than adhering to adequate sleep patterns. 
Speciﬁ  cally, sport nutritionists and researchers 
have placed tremendous emphasis on the value of 
adequate dietary timing to promote viable recov-
ery ingestion strategies. Understanding the value 
of select but quality nutritional timing is critical 
for athletes to not only increase strength and 
muscle mass but to enhance optimal performance 
outcomes. 
 Notable researchers in the Exercise and Sport 
Nutrition Laboratory at  Texas A & M   University 
promote the following guidelines for nutritional 
timing for athletic and exercise populations. In 
order to enhance the digestive process, athletes 
are encouraged to eat a full meal complete with 
high-energy carbohydrates 4–6 h before prac-
tice or competition. An example of this could 
include the ingestion of a high carbohydrate 
breakfast for afternoon training sessions and a 
carbohydrate snack for events prior to noon. 
Thirty to 60 min before practice/competition 
athletes should consume a combination carbo-
hydrate (30–50 g)/protein (5–10 g) snack or 
shake to help provide needed energy and reduce 
catabolism. Ready to drink products and bars 
are convenient options for pre-training and pre-
competition events which can help control 
markers of overtraining. One concern associated 
with post-training and competition dietary inges-
tion is that select athletes just are not hungry 
after the intense event. However, this is one of 
the most critical times to replenish dietary 
energy balance to offset tremendous energy 
expenditure. A viable recommendation is to 
ingest a post-workout snack within 30–60 min 
after the event comprised of a light carbohy-
drate/protein (50–100 g of carbohydrates and 
30–40 g of protein) snack until the individual is 
ready to consume a complete dietary meal within 
the 2 h supported nutritional recovery window. S.M. Kleiner and M. Greenwood

57
Further, the scientiﬁ  c based recommendation is 
to ingest low to moderate glycemic index and/or 
glycemic load carbohydrates prior to and during 
training/competition with an emphasis on high 
glycemic index/load carbohydrate ingestion 
options post-workout [ 5 ]. The post-workout/
competition meal should be high in carbohy-
drates and protein because this is the period that 
body is most receptive to energy replenishment 
which helps sustain the critical energy repletion 
and balance. Overall, the general dietary sug-
gested guidelines for athletes during heavy train-
ing periods include 55–65 % calories from 
carbohydrates, 15 % from protein, and less than 
30 % from fat [ 3 ]. Sport nutritionists and 
researchers recommend that athletes involved in 
heavy intense training eat as frequently as 4–6 
meals daily. However, it is recommended that 
power and/or strength athletes do not need as 
much carbohydrates as suggested in these 
guidelines. 
 In a recent book entitled “Nutrient Timing,” 
the authors further drive home the importance of 
proper dietary ingestion based on a ﬁ  nely tuned 
nutritional schedule [ 17 ]. This exceptionally 
written and scientiﬁ  c based reading promotes 
the importance of a “Nutritional Timing System” 
that is comprised of three vital phases: (1) 
Energy, (2) Anabolic, and (3) Growth. While the 
majority of nutritional research has been cen-
tered on what to eat, this cutting-edge contribu-
tion places tremendous emphasis on what and 
when to eat. The primary concepts of this book 
not only allow the athlete to reach optimal 
potentials but prepare for the next training or 
competitive bout. 
 There are numerous formulae for determining 
energy needs. Table  3.3  is a representation of 
accumulated data translated into an easy-to-use 
format [ 18 ]. Under circumstances of endurance 
and ultra-endurance training, energy demands 
may be signiﬁ  cantly higher, and the sport- speciﬁ  c 
energy demand should be added to the energy 
estimation (see Table  3.3 ). Numerous charts of 
energy expenditure during exercise are available 
from exercise physiology texts, as well as within 
online sites and nutrient analysis software.3.9        Translating Nutrients 
into Food 
 Once macronutrient numbers are determined, 
they must be applied to the design of a meal plan 
and a menu. Meal plans can be based on accepted 
dietary guidelines but will need to be broadened 
and increased based on the needs of athletes. For 
a sedentary population, dietary guidelines often 
serve as a complete meal plan since calorie and 
nutrient needs are relatively low. In an active pop-
ulation, dietary guidelines serve as the scaffolding 
upon which a diet more dense in calories and 
nutrients can be built. Without the guidelines, it 
becomes more cumbersome to determine a basic 
outline of foods to include in the diet. The guide-
lines also ensure food group variety in the diet. 
 Several dietary guidelines are in use. The 
USDA MyPlate Food Guide is the most widely 
disseminated food guide in the United States 
(  www.myplate.gov    ) [ 19 ]. Worldwide many coun-
tries have dev eloped their o wn dietary guidelines 
based on cultural preferences and regional 
foods. The Healthy Eating Plate from Harvard 
School of Public Health (  http://www.hsph.harv ard.
edu/nutritionsource/healthy-eating- plate/    ) [ 20 ],     Table 3.3    Men and women’s estimation of daily energy 
needs based on activity intensity [ 16 ]   
 Level of activity  Estimated energy 
expenditure (kcal/kg/day) 
  Very light   
 Men  31 
 Women  30 
  Light   
 Men  38 
 Women  35 
  Moderate   
 Men  41 
 Women  37 
  Heavy   
 Men  50 
 Women  44 
  Very light: walking/standing, light: walking up to 3.0 mph; 
housecleaning, moderate: walking 3.5–4.0 mph; heavy 
housecleaning, heavy: football, soccer, other serious ath-
letic endeavors; manual labor  3 The Role of Nutritional Supplements Complementing Nutrient-Dense Diets…

58
The Mediterranean Diet Pyramid and Heritage 
Diet Pyramids from Oldways Preservation and 
Exchange Trust (  www.oldwayspt.org    ) [ 21 ], 
and the Healing Foods Pyramid 2010 from the 
University of Michigan Integrative Medicine 
Clinic (  http://med.umich.edu/umim/food-pyra mid/
index.htm    ) [ 22 ] are also well- accepted and scien-
tiﬁ cally founded food guides. 
 An adjunct to the food guides is the use of an 
accepted database of calories and macronutri-
ents in foods. This can be done by hand using a 
rough equivalency chart based on The Exchange 
Lists for Meal Planning from the American 
Dietetic Association and The American Diabetes 
Association (see Table  3.4 ) [ 23 ]. Added to this 
chart is the notation for a teaspoon of added 
sugar. In all food guides, sugar is an optionally 
added food that should be controlled to avoid 
diluting the nutrient density of the diet. Rapidly 
and comfortably digested and utilized carbohy-
drates should be used by an athlete around exer-
cise to gain the greatest fuel advantage.
   One can determine the amount of added sugar 
in foods by ﬁ  rst selecting a sugar-free prepared 
food, such as shredded wheat cereal, and observ-
ing the amount of sugar listed per serving on the 
Nutrition Facts label. This sugar-free cereal con tains 0 g of sugar. Therefore, any cereal that contains 
sugar has it added as an ingredient (unless fruit is 
added as an ingredient, and even then the fruit 
will add a minor amount of sugar). You can deter-
mine the number of teaspoons of added sugar in 
foods by using this strategy and knowing that one 
teaspoon of sugar contains 4 g. Note that certain 
foods contain a natural amount of sugar: milk, for 
instance, contains 12 g of milk sugar per one cup 
serving. This should be subtracted from any 
amount greater than 12 g per cup in a milk prod-
uct with added sugar [ 11 ]. 
 Nutrient database software is also available 
for meal planning and menu design. There are a 
number of options available, from free and sub-
scription online services to personal and profes-
sional software programs. Take the time to 
investigate the quality of the software and the 
nutrient database used for establishing nutrient 
values of foods consumed. The database should 
be research quality from reputable sources. The 
USDA Nutrient Database for Standard Reference 
is the gold standard used by nearly all modern 
software programs. Release 26 is the most recent 
edition. Other research quality databases may 
specialize in certain nutrients. For instance, the 
University of Minnesota Nutrition Coordinating 
   Table 3.4    Nutrients and calories per serving of food from each food group and from teaspoons of added sugar   
 Food groups  Carbohydrates (g)  Protein (g)  Fat (g)  Calories 
 Grains, breads, and starches  15  3  0–1  72–81 
 Fruit  15  –  –  60 
 Milk 
 Fat-free  12  8  0  80 
 Reduced-fat  12  8  1–5  89–120 
 Whole  12  8  8  152 
 Non-starchy vegetables   5  2  –  28 
 Meat and meat substitutes 
 Very Lean  –  7  0–1  28–37 
 Lean  –  7  3  55 
 Medium-fat  –  7  5  73 
 High-fat  –  7  8  100 
 Fat  –  –  5  45 
 Added sugars (1 teaspoon)  4  –  –  16 
  Adapted from: American Dietetic Association, American Diabetes Association. Exchange lists for meal planning. 2003 
and Kleiner SM, Greenwood-Robinson M. Power eating, 3rd ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 2014  S.M. Kleiner and M. Greenwood

59
Center Database is well known for its collection 
of foods important in the research of lipid metab-
olism, cancers, and other disease states. 
 If you are going to use the software for meal 
planning, then it must be versatile enough to 
allow for customization of calorie levels and 
nutrient composition. Many software programs 
will generate menus based on guidelines that you 
enter; others can use only preset guidelines. 
Editing should be easy and fairly intuitive. Files 
should be able to be exported and used in word 
processing or calendar programs, or compressed 
for email or other online utilities [ 24 ]. 
3.9.1     Example Diet Plans 
 Creating an effective diet plan requires an under-
standing of the goals of the athlete and their sport. 
When training and competition seasons alter 
energy and nutrient requirements, one diet plan 
may not be enough. Many athletes, especially 
youth athletes, participate in more than one sport 
and move quickly from a strength and power 
sport to the next season where speed and agility 
are primary. They frequently request a weight 
gain diet prior to the ﬁ  rst season and a weight loss 
diet prior to the second. 
 For some athletes, the diet during the competi-
tive season is lower in calories than in the pre-
season. During the preseason for football, 
increases in weight and strength can be desirable. 
Training activity is high, especially during train-
ing camps when two-a-day practices are common, 
along with strength training and position-speciﬁ  c 
drills. Energy needs are high. Once the season 
begins, activity levels decrease so calorie intakes 
must decrease to avoid fat gain. 
 Reset calorie and nutrient levels based on 
physical goals and seasonal changes. Diets can be 
designed for weight maintenance, muscle build-
ing, or fat loss. Macronutrient composition can be 
set to enhance endurance capacity or strength and 
power. Refer to other chapters in this text for 
sport-speciﬁ  c macronutrient breakdowns. 
 Once the calorie and macronutrient composition 
is set, choose a food guide system to start the distri-
bution of nutrients into foods, portions, and servings. Use the values in Table  3.5  to calculate the 
amount of calories and macronutrients gained from 
the number of portions from each food group. In 
most cases, the number of servings suggested in the 
food guide will not add up to the calorie and macro-
nutrient levels set for your diet plan. At this point, 
begin to ﬁ  ll out the plan by adding more servings 
from the different food groups to yield your set val-
ues and still allow for variety among all the food 
groups. An example follows.
   If you now use the USDA My Plate Food 
Guide SuperTracker at   www.myplate.gov     and 
enter this personal data, the results are actually 
quite close in calories: 3,200 [ 19 ]. The distribu-
tion of food groups from the SuperTracker  is 
noted directly in Table    3.6 .
   Now the actual distribution of macronutrients 
must be calculated and food group servings 
adjusted to meet guidelines set for the mainte-
nance diet for the actual athlete. More detail must 
be added to the meat group and the servings 
adjusted to control for unhealthy saturated fats, 
leaving room for healthy and essential monoun-
saturated and polyunsaturated fats. More carbo-
hydrate in the form of added sugar or fast starches 
must be added to allow for proper fueling before, 
during, and after exercise. While the ﬁ  nal numbers    Table 3.5    Percent calculation of macronutrients ingestion 
according to food groups   
 Maintenance diet for a male athlete training 5 or more 
days per week [ 11 ] 
 Body weight: 180 lb./81.5 kg; height: 6 ′2″/188 cm; 
age: 25 years 
 Calories: 42 calories/kg/day  3,423 calories 
 Protein: 1.4 g/kg/day   115 g 
 Carbohydrate: 6.0 g/kg/day   486 g 
 Fat: ~1.4 g/kg/day  ~114 g 
   Table 3.6    Food group distributions via USDA “My Food 
Plate Guide” SuperTracker   
 Grains, breads, and starches  10 servings 
 Fruit   5 servings 
 Milk   3 servings 
 Nonstarchy vegetables   4 servings 
 Meat and meat substitutes   7 servings (ounces) 
 Fats  11 servings 3 The Role of Nutritional Supplements Complementing Nutrient-Dense Diets…

60
are not exactly the same as the goal, they are very 
close. It is often very difﬁ  cult to create a diet that 
exactly meets the goal values (see Table  3.7 ).
   The next step is to distribute these foods 
throughout the day, creating a meal plan that fol-
lows the principles of food combinations and 
timing of eating that enhance sports performance 
and that is also practical and palatable for the ath-
lete (see Table  3.8 ). Then the food group catego-
ries will be translated into actual food selections 
to create a day’s menu.
3.10         Summary 
•     A nutrient-dense diet is the foundation to ath-
letic performance and optimal results.  
•   The most important factor in an athlete’s diet 
is the amount of energy available.  
•   Nutrient density is deﬁ  ned as a rich amount of 
nutrients per calorie consumed.  
•   To attain optimal performance outcomes via 
quality nutritional intake, exercise and athletic 
populations must match caloric ingestion with 
caloric expenditure.  
•   It is a widely accepted fact that athletes involved 
with high-intensity training and competition do not ingest the right type and/or amounts 
of macronutrients to offset their energy 
expenditure.  
•   Along with choosing foods that are dense in 
nutrients, a nutrient-dense diet must also be 
rich in a variety of foods from all the food 
groups to be both nutritionally dense and 
complete.  
•   Nutritional supplements are not a complete 
substitute for a well-balanced nutrient-dense 
diet. However, nutritional supplementation 
strategies, in addition to a nutrient-dense diet, 
are vital in assisting the athlete in replacing 
the necessary caloric requirements lost 
through high-intensity energy expenditure.  
•   Because matching caloric intake to energy 
expenditure is critical, athletes engaged in 
intense training to build performance (2–3 h/
day) should ingest between 60 and 80 kcal/kg/
day. The quality caloric requirement should be 
based on the intensity of training and the total 
energy expenditure.  
•   Because it is difﬁ  cult to consume large quanti-
ties of food in one setting and difﬁ  cult to 
maintain a quality energy balance, athletes are 
encouraged to eat 4–6 meals per day. Ingesting 
carbohydrate/protein snacks between meals 
helps offset energy expenditure.     Table 3.7    Example ﬁ  nal meal plan for maintenance diet   
 Food groups  Number of 
servings  Carbohydrate (g)  Protein (g)  Fat (g)  Calories 
 Grains, breads, 
and starches  11  165  32  0–11  880 
 Fruit   9  135  –  –  540 
 Nonfat Milk   3  36  24  0  240 
 Non-starchy 
Vegetables  11  55  22 a   –  275 
 Meat and meat substitutes 
 Very lean   4  –  28  0–5  140 
 Lean   3  –  21  9  165 
 Medium fat   1  –  7  5  75 
 Fat  18  –  –  90  810 
 Tsp of added sugar  23  92  –  –  368 
 Totals (goal)  483  132 a   104  3,493 
   a Protein quality in non-starchy vegetables is low; so to maintain a high nutrient density from vegetables and a high- 
quality overall protein consumption, a larger margin is allowed for total protein consumption. While this augments total 
calorie consumption, it is not a substantial amount of calories for a highly active athlete  S.M. Kleiner and M. Greenwood

61
   Table 3.8    Example daily meal plan for adequate nutrient 
timing and food combinations enhancing sport 
performance   
 Food group servings  Menu 
  Pre-workout snack   
 Water 
 1 milk  1 c plain yogurt 
 1 fruit  ¾ cup fresh blueberries 
 1 tsp added sugar  1 tsp honey 
  Workout   
 Water 
 18 tsp added sugar  ~70 g carbohydrate from 
sports drink 
  Breakfast   
 Water 
 2 grain/bread/starch  2 slices whole-grain bread 
 1 vegetable  Sliced tomato to garnish eggs 
 1 milk  1 c fat-free milk 
 3 fruit  1 c orange juice 
 1 c melon cubes 
 2 tsp added sugar  2 tsp 100 % fruit spread for 
bread 
 1 medium-fat meat/
substitute  1 whole egg, scrambled 
 5 fat  ½ avocado cooked with eggs 
 1 tsp heart healthy spread for 
cooking eggs 
  Snack   
 2 grains/bread/starch  8 whole grain crackers or 
1 cup quinoa 
 2 vegetable  2 c vegetable sticks 
 6 fat  3 Tbsp natural peanut butter 
  Lunch   
 5 grains/bread/starch  Foot-long Subway sandwich 
(choose from “6 grams of fat 
or less” list) 
 2 vegetable  Fill sandwich with vegetable 
choices 
 1 fruit  1 banana 
 4 very lean meat/
substitute  4 oz. meat included in 
sandwich 
 2 fat  2 tsp olive oil or 2 tbsp salad 
dressing 
  Snack   
 2 fruit  8 dried apricots 
 1 milk  1 tall nonfat latte 
 1 tsp added sugar  1 tsp sugar in latte 
 3 fat  18 almonds 
  Snack (before or after dinner)   
 3 vegetables  Plate of fresh vegetable crudité 
(continued)Table 3.8  (continued)
 Food group servings  Menu 
  Dinner   
 Green tea or other tea 
 2 grains/bread/starch  1 baked sweet potato 
 2 fruit  6 oz. or about 30 red grapes 
 1 tsp added sugar  1 tsp. sugar or honey for tea 
 3 vegetable  ½ c steamed asparagus 
 2 c mixed green salad 
 3 lean mean/substitute  3 oz. grilled salmon 
 3 fat  2 tbsp. olive oil-based salad 
dressing 
 1 tsp olive oil for grilling 
salmon 
•   Because athletes are susceptible to negative 
energy balance during intense training peri-
ods, dietary options should be comprised of 
the following combinations: carbohydrate 
(8–10 g/kg/day), high-quality protein (1.5–
2.5 g/kg/day), and low to moderate fat intake 
(less than or equal to 30 % of diet). This rec-
ommendation is suggested 4–6 h before train-
ing whenever possible. Recommended fat 
intake for athletes attempting to lose weight is 
0.5–1 g/kg/day.  
•   Nutritional timing is imperative as a dietary 
strategy. To help maintain energy balance and 
reduce catabolic states, athletes are encour-
aged to consume the following 30–60 min 
prior to exercise: 50–100 g of carbohydrate 
and 30–40 g of protein.        
   References 
    1.    Williams MH. The ergogenics edge. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics; 1998. p. 12.  
    2.    Fletcher RH, Fairﬁ  eld KM. Vitamins for chronic dis-
ease prevention in adults. JAMA. 2002;287:3127–9.  
       3.    Kreider RB, Leutoholtz B. Nutritional considerations 
for preventing overtraining. In: Antonio J, Stout JR, 
editors. Sports supplements. Philadelphia, PA: 
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2001. p. 199–208.  
       4.    Kreider RB, Almada AL, Antonio J, et al. ISSN exer-
cise and sport nutrition review: research recommen-
dations. Sports Nutr Rev J. 2004;1(1):1–44.  3 The Role of Nutritional Supplements Complementing Nutrient-Dense Diets…

62
       5.   Greenwood M, Jones M, Carter J, et al. Sport nutrition 
eating habits of NCAA-division I athletes. In: NSCA 
annual national conference, Las Vegas, NV , 10–13 
July 2013.   http://NSCA.allenpress.com      
    6.    Berning JR. Energy intake, diet, and muscle wasting. 
In: Kreider RB, Fry AC, O’Toole ML, editors. 
Overtraining in sport. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 
1998. p. 275–88.  
    7.    American College of Sports Medicine. Encyclopedia 
of sports sciences and medicine. New York: 
Macmillan; 1999. p. 1128–9.  
      8.    Leutholtz B, Kreider RB. Exercise and sport nutrition. 
In: Temple N, Wilson T, editors. Nutritional health. 
Totowa NJ: Humana; 2001. p. 207–39.  
    9.    Bloomstrand E, Hassmen P, Newsholme E. Effect of 
branch-chain amino acid supplementation on mental 
performance. Acta Physiol Scand. 1991;143:225–6.  
    10.    Blomstrand E, Celsing F, Newshome EA. Changes in 
plasma concentrations of aromatic and branch-chain 
amino acids during sustained exercise in man and 
their possible role in fatigue. Acta Physiol Scand. 
1988;133:115–21.  
       11.    Kleiner SM, Greenwood-Robinson M. Power eating. 
4th ed. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 2014.  
    12.    Burke LM, Cox GR, Culmmings NK, Desbrow 
B. Guidelines for daily carbohydrate intake: do ath-
letes achieve them? Sports Med. 2001;31(4):267–99.  
     13.    Trexler ET, Smith-Ryan AE, Norton LE. Metabolic 
adaptation to weight loss: implications for the athlete. 
J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2014;11:7.  
    14.    Lemon PW. Beyond the zone: protein needs of active 
individuals. J Am Coll Nutr. 2000;19(5 Suppl):
513S–21.      15.    Pasiakos SM, Martin WF, Sharma CS, Pikosky MA, 
Gaine PC, Bolster DR, Bennett BT, Rodriguez 
NR. Level of dietary protein intake affects glucose 
turnover in endurance-trained men. J Int Soc Sports 
Nutr. 2011;8:20. doi:  10.1186/1550-2783-8-20    .  
     16.    Wells A, Read NW, Macdonald IA. Effects of carbo-
hydrate and lipid on resting energy expenditure, heart 
rate, sleepiness and mood. Physiol Behav. 1998;63(4):
621–8.  
    17.    Ivy J, Portman P. The future of sports nutrition: nutri-
ent timing. North Bergen, NJ: Basic Health; 2004. 
p. 7–14.  
    18.    Food and Nutrition Board, Institute of Medicine of the 
National Academies. Dietary reference intakes for 
energy, carbohydrate, ﬁ  ber, fat, fatty acids, choles-
terol, protein, and amino acids (macronutrients). 
Washington, DC: National Academies Press; 2005.  
     19.   United States Department of Agriculture, Center for 
Nutrition Policy and Promotion. Choose My Plate. 
2013.   www.myplate.gov      
    20.   Harvard School of Public Health. The Nutrition 
Source. 2014. Healthy eating plate and healthy eating 
pyramid.   http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/nutrition-
source/healthy-eating-plate/      
    21.   Oldways Preservation and Exchange Trust. The 
Mediterranean diet pyramid. 1999.    www.oldwayspt.org            
    22.   The University of Michigan Integrative Medicine 
Clinic. The healing foods pyramid. 2004.   http://med.
umich.edu/umim/food-pyramid/index.htm      
    23.   American Dietetic Association, American Diabetes 
Association. Exchange lists for meal planning. 2008.  
    24.   Prestwood E. Nutrition software: 101 questions to ask 
before you buy. Today’s Dietitian. 2000;2(2).      S.M. Kleiner and M. Greenwood

63 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_4      Macronutrient Intake 
for Physical Activity 
           Elfego     Galvan     
    Abstract  
  Appropriate nutritional guidelines are an essential component of optimal 
training programs to aid in adaptations, peak sports performance, and 
injury prevention. Understanding the latest macronutrient guidelines set 
forth by the latest research ﬁ  ndings and position stands from credible pro-
fessional organizations that have a specialty with applied sports nutrition 
can assist dietitians, nutritionists, coaches, and athletes develop suitable 
nutrition plans that are strategically timed around an athlete’s training 
schedule. Furthermore, it is important to recognize the three main energy 
systems used to yield adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and the bioenergetics 
involved in strength–power events, speed events, and endurance events. To 
develop a nutrition plan, you must determine the total daily needs for both 
calories and macronutrients.  
  Keywords  
  Macronutrients   •   Protein   •   Carbohydrate   •   Fats   •   Estimating energy 
expenditure  
        E.   Galvan ,  MS, RD, LD, CSCS      ( *) 
  Texas A & M University ,   College Station ,  TX ,  USA   
 e-mail: egalvan@hlkn.tamu.edu    4
4.1         Introduction 
 Appropriate nutrition guidelines are an essential 
component of athletic performance, body com-
position goals, and health. While natural variabil-
ity between persons makes it inappropriate to 
create one diet to recommend to all, examining scientiﬁ  c principles makes it easier for athletes 
and other physically active persons to eat a diet 
that will prepare them for successful training or 
athletic competition. The purpose of this chapter 
is to discuss the three macronutrients (i.e., pro-
tein, carbohydrate, and fat) that provide energy 
(e.g., calories) and how they can promote and 
maintain athletic nutrition. Throughout the chap-
ter, the term athlete will be used to refer to any-
one who exercises consistently. 
 Designing a nutritional program for an ath-
lete can be viewed much like the process of 

64
exercise prescription. The nutritional design 
should be individualized and account for factors 
such as age, height, weight, gender, body compo-
sition, training regimen, and bioenergetics 
demands of the activity or sport. Much like the 
concept of sport-speciﬁ  c training, to maximize 
the beneﬁ  ts of training and/or exercise perfor-
mance, one needs to implement a system of per-
formance nutrition for sport and recovery. To do 
this, it is necessary to understand the primary 
energy systems used during a particular activity. 
Furthermore, it is necessary to understand an 
athlete’s goals. Only then can kilocalorie 
requirements, macronutrient ratios, and nutrient 
timing issues be addressed. 
 The aim of this chapter is to provide a frame-
work to allow athletes, coaches, and sports nutri-
tionists to make successful food and supplement 
choices and recommendations. These choices 
will enable the athlete to train and compete at 
maximal capacity and reach their ﬁ  tness goals. 
Each individual responds differently to a given 
diet; athletes must take these recommendations 
and make adjustments if their body does not 
respond as they would wish.  
4.2     The Macronutrients 
 Macronutrients consist of the three nutrients that 
are required in large quantities in an individual’s 
diet: protein, carbohydrate, and fat. These nutri-
ents provide the energy or kilocalories required 
to maintain the body’s functions during exercise 
and rest. Whether in energy production or cellu-
lar structure, these nutrients play a vital role in 
athletic performance as well as the overall health 
of an individual. 
4.2.1     Protein 
 In the human body, skeletal muscle consists of 
approximately half of total body weight [ 1 ]. 
Proteins may be mainly associated with play-
ing a role in skeletal muscle hypertrophy, but 
they play a role in every cell of the body. They 
are needed to support normal growth and repair of tissues and cells. Furthermore, proteins have 
structural and regulatory (e.g., hormones) 
roles. Proteins provide structure to bodily tis-
sues such as skeletal muscle, connective tissue, 
bone, and organs. In addition, nonstructural 
proteins act as hormones, catalysts (enzymes), 
buffer systems, cellular water balance regula-
tors, and lubricants. Noting these numerous 
functions, the value of proteins in the body 
cannot be underestimated. In contrast to carbo-
hydrates and fat, the body has no physiologic 
reserve of protein stores. Therefore, if the body 
is not sufﬁ  ciently supplied with protein, it will 
catabolize tissue proteins, and cellular function 
will be lost. 
 Proteins are nitrogen-containing compounds 
composed of dozens, hundreds, or thousands of 
amino acids. Amino acids are joined by peptide 
bonds, and several amino acids joined together 
become a polypeptide. Polypeptide chains then 
bond together and form various proteins. 
Chemically, proteins can be divided into groups: 
simple or conjugated. Simple proteins contain 
only amino acids or their derivatives. More rec-
ognizable to some are conjugated proteins, 
which contain some nonprotein substances such 
as sugar molecules (glycoproteins), lipids (lipo-
proteins), or phosphate groups (phosphopro teins). 
One protein category that is most important to 
the nutritionist and the athlete alike is essential 
versus nonessential and complete versus incom-
plete proteins. 
 For nutritional purposes, amino acids (AA) 
can be divided into several groups: essential, con-
ditionally essential, and nonessential. It is impor-
tant to understand that all AA (i.e., essential, 
conditionally essential, and nonessential AA) 
are necessary for normal growth and general 
health [ 2 ]. Essential amino acids (EAA) must be 
provided by the diet as the body cannot synthe-
size them [ 3 ]. Generally, protein from animal 
sources contains a greater concentration of EAA 
than protein from plant sources [ 3 ]. Conditionally 
essential amino acids (CEAA) are needed in 
greater amounts under certain physiologically 
stressful situations. Under certain stressful situa-
tions, nonessential amino acids (NEAA) can 
become CEAA. For example, proline, a NEAA E. Galvan

65
under normal physiological conditions, becomes 
a CEAA in burn victims [ 4 ,  5 ]. NEAA does not 
need to be provided by dietary protein as they are 
AA that our body can synthesize de novo [ 5 ]. 
Some argue that serine and glutamic acid are the 
only truly NEAA as they are the only AA that can 
be synthesized de novo from non-amino acid 
sources of nitrogen [ 5 ]. EAA, CEAA, and NEAA 
are listed in Table  4.1 .
   Furthermore, it is also useful to know if a cer-
tain dietary protein is categorized as a complete 
or incomplete protein. A complete protein is one 
containing all AA within one serving. Complete 
proteins are primarily found in animal products 
and are proteins that contain the proper quantity 
of EAA. Meat, ﬁ  sh, eggs, milk, and cheese are all 
good sources of complete proteins. Incomplete 
proteins, on the other hand, lack one or more 
EAA. A few animal products may be considered 
incomplete proteins, but they are primarily found 
in plant protein sources such as grains, legumes, 
or vegetables. It can be challenging for vegetar-
ian and vegan athletes to obtain proper amounts 
of all essential amino acids when forced to eat 
many plant sources in combination. An option is 
to combine two or more incomplete proteins (i.e., 
complementary proteins) in order to ingest all of 
the EAA. For example, combining legumes (lim-
ited in methionine) with corn (limited in lysine) 
results in the ingestion of all EAA [ 7 ]. Thus, an 
athlete following a vegetarian or vegan diet can 
obtain the EAA by combining foods of comple-
mentary AA composition.  4.2.2     Carbohydrates 
 Carbohydrates have a wide range of functions, 
but they are most known for providing kilocalo-
ries (i.e., energy) and a storage form of energy in 
the body. Simpler carbohydrates are known to 
have the empirical formula (CH 2 O)  n  , hence the 
name “hydrate of carbon” [ 8 ]. Carbohydrates are 
usually classiﬁ  ed into three major groups: mono-
saccharides, disaccharides, and polysaccharides. 
 Monosaccharides are single sugar molecules 
and include glucose, fructose, and galactose. 
Monosaccharides can bond to form disaccharides 
and polysaccharides. Disaccharides, as the preﬁ  x 
suggests, are two sugar units and include sucrose 
(glucose + fructose), lactose (glucose + galac-
tose), and maltose (glucose + glucose). 
Monosaccharides and disaccharides are better 
known as simple carbohydrates or simple sugars. 
Polysaccharides are commonly referred to as 
complex carbohydrates. Important polysaccha-
rides include starch, ﬁ  ber, and glycogen. 
Glycogen is also the storage form of glucose in 
the body and is found primarily in the liver and 
skeletal muscle. 
 Over the last few decades, simple carbohy-
drates have received an overwhelming amount of 
negative attention. Beverages such as sodas, fruit 
juices, energy drinks, and functional waters are 
sweetened with simple sugars [ 9 ], and these 
sugar-sweetened beverages are associated with 
an increased risk of weight gain, metabolic syn-
drome, and type 2 diabetes in both children and 
adults [ 10 – 12 ]. Furthermore, simple carbohy-
drates have also been associated with a greater 
risk for certain cancers [ 10 ]. It may sound like 
simple carbohydrates are vastly inferior to com-
plex, but a mix of carbohydrate types is beneﬁ  cial 
for supplying athletes with energy. While the 
majority of the sedentary population should cut 
back and even avoid sugar-sweetened beverages, 
the athletic population has better use of short- 
term simple sugar-containing beverages to 
enhance training adaptations and exercise perfor-
mance during competition [ 13 ]. With that said, 
athlete should consume simple sugars before, 
during, and after exercise training (this will be 
further discussed in the nutrient timing section).    Table 4.1    Nonessential, essential, and conditionally 
essential amino acids   
 Nonessential  Essential  Conditionally 
essential 
 Alanine  Isoleucine  Arginine 
 Asparagine  Leucine  Cysteine 
 Aspartic acid  Lysine  Glutamine 
 Glutamic acid  Methionine  Histidine 
 Glycine  Phenylalanine  Proline 
 Serine  Threonine  Tyrosine 
 Tryptophan 
 Valine 
  Adapted from [ 5 ,  6 ]  4 Macronutrient Intake for Physical Activity

66
 Polysaccharides are generally promoted 
because of their ability to be absorbed more 
slowly and provide greater nutrient value over-
time. Starch is the storage form of carbohydrate in 
plants, and starch can be found in grains, nuts, 
legumes, and vegetables. It is a viable energy 
source because it digests slowly and provides 
energy for longer periods than does simple carbo-
hydrate. Fiber on the other hand, is indigestible, 
and is useful in slowing the digestive rate of food, 
adding bulk to the feces, reducing appetite and is 
associated with health beneﬁ  ts [ 14 ,  15 ]. It is found 
in foods such as vegetables, fruits, nuts, and 
legumes. Current recommendations suggest that 
~20–40 g/day, depending on age and gender, of 
dietary ﬁ  ber be consumed for proper health [ 16 ]. 
 Although ﬁ  rst developed for use with diabet-
ics, the glycemic index (GI) provides a useful 
tool for helping athletes with food choices. The 
GI is a measurement of the response of blood 
glucose concentration after a 50-g bolus of a 
carbohydrate- containing food [ 17 ,  18 ]. The val-
ues are based on a standard of 100, which is the 
value for glucose or white bread (common food 
found globally). Often, people mistake the GI as 
a function of whether foods are simple or com-
plex. However, some complex carbohydrates 
(e.g., baked potatoes) may increase glucose lev-
els similarly to glucose. These values can be 
helpful for athletes to determine food choices 
when they quickly want to increase glucose/gly-
cogen levels. A food is considered to have a low 
GI when its value is less than 55, a medium GI 
when it is 55–70, and a high GI when its value is 
over 70 [ 19 ]. 
 Glycemic load (GL) is often confused with the 
glycemic index. Although GL is related to GI, the 
latter is thought to be a better indicator of dietary 
insulin demand [ 20 ]. GL is related to GI, yet its 
value represents the effect it will have on blood 
sugar after an average serving of a particular food 
[ 19 ]. It is calculated by dividing the product of the 
grams of carbohydrate in a typical serving of a 
food and its GI value by 100 [ 19 ]. A low, medium, 
and high GL is represented by a score of 10 or 
less, 11–19, and 20 or more, respectively [ 19 ]. 
Table  4.2  lists common foods and data derived 
from subjects with normal glucose tolerance [ 21 ].4.2.3        Fat 
 Lipids are a broad group of energy dense com-
pounds made up of carbon, hydrogen, and oxy-
gen that are insoluble in water. Often, the terms 
fat and lipid are used interchangeably, although 
they are indeed different ― all fats are lipids, 
but not all lipids are fats. Lipids include triglyc-
erides, sterols, and phospholipids. Triglycerides 
are the primary fat found in our food and our 
body. They are the primary storage form of fat 
within the human body. Sterols are found in 
both plant and animal sources. In animal and 
plant sources, sterols are referred to as choles-
terol and plant sterols, respectively. Although 
many associate cholesterol with negative health 
outcomes, it plays an import role as a structural 
component of all cell membranes and is a pre-
cursor of bile acids, steroid hormones, and vita-
min D. Phospholipids are the predominate lipids 
of cell membranes. Phospholipids play a role in 
intracellular communication as well as struc-
tural support of the cell membrane. Many other 
lipids exist and are signiﬁ  cant in the diet. For 
the purposes of this chapter, the terms fat/fats 
will be used to refer to dietary lipids. 
 Weight gain is often attributed to dietary fats 
because they contain far more energy per gram 
than does carbohydrate or protein. Dietary fats 
provide 9 calories per gram, while carbohydrates 
and proteins provide 4 calories per gram. Fats 
are often viewed in a negative light due to the 
association with weight gain and their role in 
disease development. However, fats serve many 
functions in the body. These include providing 
energy for tissues and organs as well as playing 
a role in cell membrane makeup, nerve signal 
transmission, vitamin transport, and cushioning 
and insulation for internal organs. In addition, 
for endurance athletes, they are a vital fuel 
source for skeletal muscles. 
 The primary fats found in large quantities in 
foods are triglycerides. Triglycerides are com-
posed of three fatty acids and one glycerol mol-
ecule. Fatty acids can be grouped by the amount 
of hydrogen they contain, otherwise known as 
saturation. Saturated fatty acid chains contain 
no double bonds; monounsaturated fatty acids E. Galvan

67
contain one double bond; and polyunsaturated 
fats have two or more double bonds. The fatty 
acid makeup of the triglycerides is important to 
its metabolism in the body. For example, satu-
rated fats may increase cholesterol in the body, 
while unsaturated fats may have no effect or 
lower cholesterol. 
 Cholesterol is found in food and even synthe-
sized by the body. High-density lipoproteins 
(HDLs) are a type of cholesterol composed of a 
high protein-to-fat ratio. HDL is typically known 
as good cholesterol because of its protective 
nature against heart disease, while elevated low- 
density lipoproteins (LDLs) are a risk factor for heart disease. LDL is primarily fat with lower 
amounts of protein. However, recent research 
suggests that lipoprotein size, regardless of 
whether the lipoprotein is high or low density, is 
more important to cardiovascular health [ 22 ]. 
Small particle LDL and HDL may both have a 
negative effect on the cardiovascular system [ 22 ]. 
A recent prospective study of 26,332 initially 
healthy women evaluated the association between 
HDL particle size, determined via nuclear mag-
netic resonance spectroscopy, and the risk of 
coronary heart disease (CHD) [ 23 ]. Researchers 
observed a positive association in CHD and both 
small and very small HDL particles.    Table 4.2    Glycemic index (GI) and glycemic load (GL) values determined in subjects with normal glucose tolerance: 
2008   
 Food item  GI (glucose = 100)  GI (bread = 100)  Serve size (g)  GL per serving 
 Coca Cola ® , soft drink  63  90  250 ml  16 
 V8 ®  100 % vegetable juice  43 ± 4  61  250 ml  4 
 V8 ®  Splash, tropical blend fruit drink  47 ± 4  67  250 ml  13 
 Bagel, white  69  99  70  24 
 100 % whole wheat burger bun  62 ± 6  89  30  7 
 Rye bread (50 % rye ﬂ  our + 50 % 
wheat ﬂ  our)  50  72 ± 5  30  7 
 Wonder™, enriched white bread  71 ± 9  101 ± 13  30  10 
 Rice, Arborio, risotto rice, boiled 
(SunRice brand)  69 ± 7  99  150  36 
 Rice, brown, steamed  50  72  150  21 
 Ice cream, premium, French vanilla, 
16 % fat  38 ± 3  54  50  3 
 Milk, full fat  41 ± 2  59  250 ml  5 
 Milk, reduced fat (1.4 %)  30 ± 6  43  250 ml  4 
 Milk, skim  32  46  250 ml  4 
 Soy milk, full fat (3 %)  44 ± 5  63  250 ml  8 
 Soy milk, reduced fat (1.5 %), light  17 ± 3  24  250 ml  8 
 Yoplait™ no fat yogurt, various ﬂ  avors  18 ± 3  26  200  3 
 Grapes, black  59  84  120  11 
 Raisins  64 ± 11  91  60  28 
 Pineapple, raw  66 ± 7  94  120  6 
 Watermelon, raw  72 ± 13  103  120  4 
 Apple juice, unsweetened, reconstituted  39 ± 5  55 ± 7  250 ml  10 
 Carrot juice, freshly made  43 ± 3  61  250 ml  10 
 Peanut butter  23 ± 3  33  50  1 
 Filet-O-Fish™ burger (ﬁ  sh patty, 
cheese, and tartar sauce on a burger bun)  66 ± 10  94  128  20 
 Pizza, Super Supreme, pan (Pizza Hut, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia)  36 ± 6  51  100  9 
  Adapted from International Tables of Glycemic Index and Glycemic Load Values: 2008 [ 21 ]  4 Macronutrient Intake for Physical Activity

68
 Dietary fats also provide a source of essential 
fatty acids. These fatty acids are essential as the 
body cannot synthesize them from endogenous 
sources. There are two types of fatty acids to pay 
special attention to in the diet. The essential fatty 
acids are linoleic    (omega-6) and linolenic 
(omega-3), both 18-carbon fatty acids. Linoleic 
acid is found in oils of plant origin, while marine 
oils are a good source of linolenic acid. Although 
both linoleic and linolenic are essential fatty 
acids, they have very different roles in the body. 
Linoleic acids are generally associated with the 
promotion of inﬂ  ammation [ 24 ] and certain can-
cers [ 25 ], while linolenic are anti-inﬂ  ammatory 
and associated with a decreased risk of heart dis-
ease [ 26 ] and cancers [ 25 ]. 
 Trans fatty acids should receive considerable 
attention as well due to their relationship with 
health status. Trans fats, as they are commonly 
known, are often oils that are solidiﬁ  ed through a 
process known as dehydrogenation, although 
some amounts are found naturally. Dr. Paul 
Sabatier, a French chemist, received the Nobel 
Prize in Chemistry in 1912 for developing a 
method to convert oils, via hydrogenation, to 
saturated fats. Trans fats are now used in foods 
such as margarine, shortening, and some dairy 
products. These fats are beneﬁ  cial to the food 
industry as they are inexpensive to make and pro-
mote product shelf life. The reduction of trans 
fats has become a point of public scrutiny in 
places such as fast food and packaged foods 
because, although they are unsaturated fats, they 
behave like saturated fats in the body. Trans fatty 
acids have been shown to have a negative effect 
on blood cholesterol markers of health, increase 
inﬂ ammatory markers, and promote endothelial 
dysfunction [ 27 ]. Research suggests that trans 
fatty acids should have no place in our food sup-
ply as they have no health value and pose sub-
stantial health risks [ 28 ]. In 2013, the Food and 
Drug Administration took their initial steps to 
potentially eliminate trans fats from our 
processed- food supply as ample evidence sug-
gested that trans fats are no longer safe for 
consumption. 
 Generally, fruits and vegetables contain little 
fat. Animal products such as meat, milk, cheese, and eggs, as well as baked goods, generally 
contain high amounts of saturated fats. Nuts and 
peanut/canola oils can be good sources of mono-
unsaturated fats. Polyunsaturated fats, including 
the essential fatty acids, can be found in ﬁ  sh, 
nuts, corn, soy, and sunﬂ  ower oils. Lastly, marga-
rine, shortening, cookies, pastries, and fried 
foods have high levels of trans fats.  
4.2.4     Metabolic Usage 
 Paramount to understanding sport-speciﬁ  c eating 
and proper food decisions is a basic knowledge 
of the metabolic usage of the macronutrients 
within the body. This chapter will give only a cur-
sory overview of the bioenergetics of activity and 
exercise, yet these principles are essential to a 
proper nutritional design. The discussion here 
will be limited to energy production from carbo-
hydrates and fats. 
 The primary energy systems used during exer-
cise depend on the intensity and duration of the 
exercise. Most exercise activity can be  categorized 
as power–strength events (e.g., discus throw), 
speed events (e.g., 100-m sprint), and endurance 
events (e.g., triathlons). Short quick bursts such 
as a discus throw and vertical jump are fueled by 
the phosphagen system (adenosine triphosphate 
[ATP] system and creatine phosphate [CP]). The 
glycolytic system is mainly responsible for sup-
plying energy derivative during speed events 
such as a 100-m and 400-m sprints. Endurance 
events are mainly supported by the substrates 
metabolized by the oxidative phosphorylation 
system. It is important to realize that all of the 
energy systems work in unison, but under certain 
conditions, one energy system may be more 
dominant in providing energy substrates. In terms 
of energy metabolism for exercise, it is agreed 
that fats provide the dominant energy source dur-
ing low- to moderate-intensity exercise [ 29 ]. As 
exercise intensity increases, there is a greater reli-
ance on carbohydrate (e.g., muscle and liver gly-
cogen; blood glucose; blood, muscle, and liver 
lactate) oxidation for fuel. In addition, the longer 
the duration, the more fat will be utilized. This 
means that even activity that begins at high or E. Galvan

69
moderate levels will taper off due to glycogen 
depletion, and fat will be the primary fuel deriva-
tive after 20–30 min of continual exercise. These 
basic concepts are essential to determine proper 
dietary guidelines for an activity or event. 
 When comparing energy reserves, the human 
body has far more fat than glycogen stores. 
Skeletal muscle glycogen stores approximately 
400 g for an 80-kg individual, with an additional 
100 g stored in the liver. In comparison, that same 
80-kg individual may have over 12,000 g of fat 
stored in adipose tissue! When factoring in the 
fact that fat is more than twice as calorie dense 
than carbohydrate, the energy stores are quite 
unbalanced. However, while each fatty acid pro-
vides 147 ATP and each triglyceride provides 
460 ATP, glucose metabolism (36 ATP/molecule) 
is more efﬁ  cient per unit of oxygen at providing 
energy. In addition, it takes roughly 20 min for 
free fatty acids to be liberated for use through 
lipolysis. Therefore, per unit of time glucose is 
more efﬁ  cient and thus the preferred fuel for 
high-intensity exercise. These data help to brieﬂ  y 
detail the merits of both fats and carbohydrates as 
fuel sources. The importance of both of these 
fuels should not be underestimated by the athlete, 
when considering intake or expenditure.   
4.3     Determining Intake Needs 
 Possibly, the most important piece of the nutri-
tional puzzle for athletes is the understanding of 
how to determine the right amount of calories 
and macronutrients to consume. After all, what 
good is an understanding of what the nutrients 
are for an athlete if they do not know how much 
they need to take in? 
 The initial consideration when determining 
macronutrient needs is to determine the goal of 
the nutritional design. Is the goal to improve 
muscular strength and power, lose fat mass, or 
simply improve body composition? Secondly, 
one must then consider the bioenergetics of the 
event or training required to meet the estab-
lished goal. For example, a high-intensity, high- 
frequency resistance training will require higher 
dietary protein intake than other forms of exer cise. Finally, physiologic factors such as size, age, 
and gender will play a role in caloric needs as 
well as the macronutrient distribution of those 
calories. For example, older athletes may need 
higher protein intake to prevent muscle loss and/
or bone resorption, while highly active women 
at risk for amenorrhea may need to increase 
caloric intake and fat consumption. 
4.3.1     Determining Caloric Needs 
 Meeting caloric needs of an athlete should be a 
nutritional priority. To determine macronutrient 
intake needs, one must begin by determining the 
caloric needs of the individual. Total energy 
expenditure (TEE) is composed of four factors: 
resting metabolic rate (RMR), exercise energy 
expenditure, thermogenesis, and activities of 
daily living. 
 RMR accounts for the greatest percentage of 
calorie expenditure. RMR is positively correlated 
with total body surface area and lean body mass. 
The percentage of TEE from RMR depends on 
the ﬁ tness and activity level of the individual, but 
it generally accounts for 60–70 % of daily energy 
expenditure. As a person becomes more active, 
RMR will begin to account for slightly lower per-
centages of energy expenditure. RMR values 
below 50 % of TEE have even been reported in 
male endurance athletes [ 30 ]. 
 When direct or indirect calorimetry is not 
available to determine RMR, the next best 
method is using a predictive equation to estimate 
an athlete’s RMR. Two predictive equations rec-
ommended by several professional organizations 
[ 31 ] include the Harris–Benedict equation [ 32 ] 
and the Cunningham equation [ 33 ]. It is sug-
gested that the Cunningham equation, which 
requires fat-free mass information, is the most 
appropriate predictive equation to use when 
working with endurance athletes [ 34 ]. If accu-
rate fat-free mass data is not available, then the 
Harris–Benedict equation may be more appro-
priate. The Harris–Benedict equation requires 
information of total body weight, height, and 
gender. It is important to note that neither the 
Cunningham nor the Harris–Benedict equations 4 Macronutrient Intake for Physical Activity

70
were developed using athletic test subjects; 
rather, they were developed using healthy 
untrained subjects. The De Lorenzo equation did, 
however, use male athletes to predict RMR [ 35 ]. 
Numeric guidelines such as these only provide an 
approximation of the average energy needs of an 
individual athlete (Table  4.3 ).
   While most of these equations do not take into 
account fat-free mass, they have been reported to 
predict RMR within 200 kcal/day in endurance 
athletes of both genders [ 34 ]. 
 Exercise energy expenditure and activities of 
daily living are often combined into physical 
activity. It is important to remember to factor in 
daily activities such as walking up/down stairs, 
yard work, or even shopping. These activities 
take small amounts of energy to complete, but 
energy nonetheless. Then, the athlete’s training 
routine must be taken into account. Once the 
RMR has been established by using a predictive 
equation or by measurement, the next step is to 
determine the daily energy expenditure from 
physical activity. This is accomplished by multi-
plying the RMR value by the physical activity 
level factor that most closely represents the ath-
lete’s current physical activity level. Although no 
standard physical activity level factor exists, the 
values below in Table  4.4  are common ranges for 
the sedentary and active population [ 36 ].
   The ﬁ  nal component of TEE is thermogenesis, 
which is energy expenditure not accounted for by 
RMR or physical activity. The most important 
form of thermogenesis is the thermic effect of 
food, which accounts for the energy cost of diges-
tion, absorption, transportation, and storage of 
the macronutrients. The measured thermic effects of fat, carbohydrates, and proteins are 0–3 %, 
5–10 %, and 20–30 %, respectively [ 37 ]. In other 
words, it does not take much energy to break-
down, transport, and store dietary fat, whereas 
much more energy is required to do the same for 
dietary protein. The thermic effect of food gener-
ally accounts for 5–10 % of TEE. 
 We know TEE determines the number of calo-
ries that the athlete needs per day to stabilize his/
her body weight. If, however, a change in body 
weight is desired, as in the case of weight- 
dependent or muscle-building sports, the daily 
caloric intake will need to be adjusted as such. 
Dietitians and nutritionists often recommend a 
500 calorie per day reduction, which will lead to 
3,500 calorie deﬁ  cit over the course of 1 week. It 
is generally assumed that this 3,500 calorie 
reduction will result in the loss of one pound of 
fat. One pound of fat is worth approximately 
3,500 calories. If all weight loss came in the form 
of lost fat mass, then the previous assumption 
would be true [ 36 ]. However, this is not the case. 
Approximately 25 % of skeletal muscle mass is 
also lost when body mass is reduced [ 38 ]. Under 
certain conditions such as rapid weight loss and 
at altitude, the loss of lean muscle mass can be 
even greater.     Table 4.3    Various predictive equations   
 Harris–
Benedict: 
Males  RMR (kcal/
day) =  66.47 + 13.75 (wt. in 
kg) + 5 (ht. in cm) – 6.76 
(age in years) 
 Harris–
Benedict: 
Females  RMR (kcal/
day) =  655.1 + 9.56 (wt. in kg) 
+ 1.85(ht. in 
cm) – 4.68(age in years) 
 Cunningham:  RMR (kcal/
day) =  500 + 22 (LBM [lean 
body mass] in kg) 
 De Lorenzo:  RMR (kcal/
day) =  –857 + 9.0 (wt. in 
kg) + 11.7 (ht. in cm)    Table 4.4    Physical activity level based on doubly 
labeled water   
 Lifestyle and level of activity  Physical 
activity level 
 Chair bound/bed bound  1.2 
 Seated work with no option of moving 
around and little or no strenuous leisure 
activity  1.4–1.5 
 Seated work with discretion and 
requirement to move around but little 
or no strenuous leisure activity  1.6–1.7 
 Standing work (e.g., housework, shop 
assistant)  1.8–1.9 
 Signiﬁ  cant amounts of sport or 
strenuous leisure activity (30–60 min 
4–5 times per week  2.1–2.3 
 Strenuous work or highly active leisure 
time  2.0–2.4 
  Adapted from Human energy expenditure in afﬂ  uent 
societies: An analysis of 574 doubly-labelled water mea-
surements [ 30 ]  E. Galvan

71
4.3.2     Determining Macronutrient 
Intake 
 Once daily caloric intake is determined, the mac-
ronutrient composition distribution of the diet 
must be considered. The ﬁ  rst thing to consider is 
the type of athlete you are working with. Are you 
working with a strength and power athlete or an 
endurance athlete? From there, you can start with 
the general recommendations for protein, carbo-
hydrate, and fat for that speciﬁ  c type of athlete. 
A second consideration should be the athlete’s 
goal. Is the goal to lose fat mass, gain lean body 
mass, or maintain current body composition? 
 Beginning with protein, the general guideline 
for sedentary individuals is to intake ~0.8 g/kg of 
body weight [ 39 ]. This recommendation of pro-
tein intake is estimated to be sufﬁ  cient for most 
(~98 %) healthy, adult men and women. The 
International Society of Sports Nutrition recom-
mends a protein intake of 1.4–2.0 g/kg/day for 
the athletic population [ 40 ]. It was suggested 
that protein consumption for endurance athletes 
occur on the lower range (i.e., 1.4 g/kg/day), ath-
letes in intermittent sports such as soccer and 
basketball in the middle range (i.e., 1.7 g/kg/
day), and strength and power athletes on the 
higher range (i.e., 2 g/kg/day). Other researchers 
have also recommended the upper range of daily 
protein intake to prevent lean muscle mass losses 
during periods of caloric restriction [ 41 ]. In 
addition, BCAAs may be important for endur-
ance athletes in delaying fatigue in respect to the 
central fatigue hypothesis. New research reports 
that dietary protein intake as high as 1.8 g/kg 
stimulates protein synthesis following endur-
ance exercise, but further research is needed 
[ 42 ]. For athletes participating in regular resis-
tance training, greater amounts of protein are 
needed in order to maintain an anabolic environ-
ment and increase muscle mass. 
 Carbohydrate intake is of great importance to 
endurance athletes who train for longer than 
90 min/day in order to replenish muscle and liver 
glycogen levels. However, each gram of glyco-
gen requires extra water to be stored and may 
inhibit performance in training or events shorter 
than 90 min. Generally, individuals need between 
6 and 10 g/kg of carbohydrates daily to restore muscle and liver glycogen levels, but athletes 
training for periods longer than 90 min may 
require 8–10 g/kg daily [ 42 ]. In fact, Fallowﬁ  eld 
and Williams [ 43 ] determined that even when 
isocaloric diets were consumed, a high- 
carbohydrate (8.8 g/kg) diet was signiﬁ  cantly 
better at maintaining running time than a low- 
carbohydrate (5.8 g/kg) diet. However, beneﬁ  ts 
vary between individuals, and some may experi-
ence gastrointestinal problems on a high- 
carbohydrate diet. Therefore, it is important for 
athletes to determine what works best for them. 
 Once the total grams of protein and carbohy-
drate have been determined, multiply each factor 
by 4 to ﬁ  nd the total number of calories from 
each of the respective substrates. Once this is 
completed, subtract the number from the total 
energy needs determined earlier. The remainder 
of the necessary calories will come from fat. 
Divide the fat calories by 9 to determine the total 
number of fat grams to be consumed per day. 
 Though fats are the last macronutrient to be 
prescribed in the diet, they are not simply throw- 
away calories. It is not the unimportance of fats 
but rather the importance of protein and carbohy-
drate that makes dietary fat the ﬁ  nal consider-
ation. It is not recommended for an athlete to 
consume less than 20 % of calories from fat as it 
can promote immune system dysfunction and 
deteriorate health status [ 44 – 46 ]. Generally, it is 
accepted that athletes consume approximately 
30 % of their calories from fat [ 47 ]. Additionally, 
athletes participating in high-volume training can 
safely ingest up to 50 % of their calories from fat 
[ 47 ]. In fact, higher fat diets (~35 % kcal) have 
been reported to enhance endurance performance 
in some athletes [ 48 ]. The effects of a high-fat 
diet also vary between individuals; caution 
should be used in recommending such a diet. For 
athletes attempting to lose fat mass, a dietary fat 
intake of 0.5–1 g/kg body weight/day is recom-
mended [ 47 ]. 
 Since the daily recommendations are ranges, 
these should be reconciled with the percentages. 
For example, if the values of 9 g/kg of carbohy-
drate and 1.4 g/kg of protein breakdown to 80 % 
carbohydrate, 12 % protein, and 8 % fat, then 
they need to be adjusted to lower the carbohy-
drate intake and increase the fat and protein.  4 Macronutrient Intake for Physical Activity

72
4.3.3     Case Study 
 Ellen is an endurance athlete who comes to you 
for nutrition counseling. She is 27 years old, 5 ft., 
4 in. (163 cm) tall, weighs 121 lb. (55 kg), and 
her body fat percentage is 23 % according to her 
latest DEXA (dual energy X-ray absorptiome-
try). During her training, she performs well at the 
beginning of her sessions, but she feels fatigued 
sooner than she would like or expect. She trains 
5–6 days/week for 90 min per session at a 7 mph 
pace. She informs you that she consumes 2,197 
calories per day with 302 g of carbohydrate, 83 g 
of protein, and 73 g of fat. 
 Since Ellen is an endurance athlete and we 
have her body fat percentage information, we will 
use the Cunningham equation (RMR = 500 + 22 
[LBM in kg]). If we did not have Ellen’s body fat 
percentage information, we would not be able to 
use the Cunningham equation, and thus it would 
be more appropriate to use either the De Lorenzo 
or the Harris–Benedict equation. Using Ellen’s 
information, we get an RMR value of ~1,430 cal-
ories (500 + 22 [42.25 kg of LBM]). Using a phys-
ical activity level factor of 2.1 (based on her 
training frequency per week), we multiply the cal-
culated RMR value by 2.1, which gives us approx-
imately 3,000 calories per day. You inform Ellen 
that she ﬁ  rst needs to consume more calories; 
based on her RMR (1,430 kcal) and her physical 
activity level factor (2.1), her calorie intake during 
regular training periods should be approximately 
3,000 calories per day. The added calories should 
help her to improve her endurance. Frequent 
nutrition counseling and body composition 
assessment of an athlete will help determine 
any undesirable body composition changes. If 
unwanted weight gain occurs, then reducing 
caloric intake would be appropriate. 
 Now that we have her total daily caloric needs, 
we can work on setting dietary guidelines for pro-
tein, carbohydrate, and fat. Based on the dietary 
protein recommendations mentioned earlier, we 
can recommend Ellen to consume 1.4 g of pro-
tein/kg body weight/day. This gives us a total 
dietary protein intake of 77 (1.4 × 55) grams of 
protein per day. Now, following with carbohy-
drate guidelines, we would recommend 8 g of car-bohydrate/kg body weight per day. Ellen would 
be recommended to consume approximately 
440 g (8 × 55) of carbohydrate per day. Right now, 
we have protein contributing approximately 308 
calories (77 g of protein × 4 calories per gram of 
protein) and carbohydrates contributing 1,760 
calories (440 g of carbohydrate × 4 calories per 
gram of carbohydrate), which gives us a total of 
2,068 calories. Since we are recommending 
Ellen to consume approximately 3,000 calories, 
the remaining 932 calories (3,000 – 2,068 = 932) 
will come from dietary fat. This amount of dietary 
fat (~31 % calories from fat) puts us well within 
the fat recommendations mentioned above. 
Remember that these are  simply guidelines 
that can be adjusted at any time to better suit the 
athlete. 
 You inform her that this diet should help to 
maximize muscle glycogen stores while still pro-
viding enough fat for oxidation and protein for 
contractile protein repair. After beginning this 
new diet, Ellen discovers that her ability to main-
tain intensity during the ends of her workouts 
improves and that she recovers more readily from 
her training bouts.   
4.4     Nutrient Timing 
 One of the hottest topics in the sports nutrition 
ﬁ eld is the concept of “nutrient timing.” Nutrient 
timing suggests that it is not merely what you eat 
and how much, but also when. To properly build 
lean mass, replace glycogen stores, or simply 
maximize athletic performance, one needs to be 
conscious of the proper time to ingest food or mac-
ronutrient supplements. Not only is the timing an 
issue in terms of proper metabolic usage, but 
improper timing can also cause gastrointestinal or 
psychological discomfort. In general, pre- and 
postexercise supplements are preferred to be in 
liquid form to limit gastrointestinal discomfort. 
 Aside from improving performance, the pri-
mary nutritional goal for endurance athletes is to 
maximize (pre) and replenish (post) glycogen 
stores. For many years, endurance athletes have 
used “carbohydrate loading” as a tool for increas ing 
muscle glycogen stores. Variations of carbohy drate E. Galvan

73
loading regimens exist, but it requires several 
days of high-carbohydrate intake combined with 
tapered exercise the week before competition. 
Yet, endurance athletes should not forget about 
the importance of fats as a fuel either. For muscle 
glycogen to be spared during long- duration 
endurance training, fats must be metabolized 
preferentially to glycogen. Depending on the 
intensity of exercise, carbohydrate supplementa-
tion immediately before or during exercise may 
inhibit lipolysis due to increases in insulin. Fat 
oxidation seems to be inhibited by carbohydrate 
intake during lower-intensity exercise (~45 % 
VO 2 max), but not during moderate- intensity 
exercise [ 49 ,  50 ]. In contrast, increased dietary 
fat appears to increase lipolysis and fat oxidation 
during exercise [ 51 ]. Therefore, it may be 
advis able to consume carbohydrate prior to mod-
erate- to high-intensity exercise so muscle glyco-
gen is maximized, but to consume small amounts 
of fat prior to low-intensity exercise to increase 
fat oxidation. 
 To maximize glycogen replenishment after 
exercise, it is necessary to ingest a carbohydrate 
supplement immediately after and every 2 h (up 
to 6 h) following exercise [ 52 ]. In addition, add-
ing protein to the carbohydrate supplement 
appears to increase glycogen storage by acting 
synergistically on insulin secretion [ 53 ]. 
Restoring the glycogen levels properly after exer-
cise will allow for proper recovery and support 
the next day’s training or competition. 
 For resistance-training athletes, the goals are 
to increase amino acid uptake and anabolic hor-
mone release to enhance protein synthesis as 
well as to replenish glycogen stores. At present, 
it appears that providing protein and/or carbohy-
drate immediately before and after resistance 
exercise may provide the optimal environment 
for enhanced muscle growth [ 54 ]. While con-
sumption of protein [ 55 ] or carbohydrate [ 56 ] 
following exercise has been shown to increase 
protein synthesis, the combination of the two has 
shown even greater success before and after 
exercise [ 57 ,  58 ]. The protein–carbohydrate 
combination consumed prior to and after a work-
out has also been shown to signiﬁ  cantly increase 
growth hormone levels [ 59 ,  60 ]. In addition, it currently appears that consuming the postexer cise 
supplement as soon as possible is extremely 
important and more effective than waiting for 
extended periods [ 54 ,  61 ]. 
 Research in the area of nutrient timing and its 
connection with athletic performance is greatly 
expanding. As more research is completed, fur-
ther information on the proper timing of macro-
nutrient intake will most certainly come to light.  
4.5     Summary 
 Proper macronutrient nutrition is part of the basis 
of any successful training and competition pro-
gram. Although it is suggested that prior to using 
nutritional supplements, an athlete must properly 
regiment their diet, it is not imperative. Most 
dietary supplementation studies do not control 
nutritional intake. A ﬁ  tting nutritional design is 
an essential part of an athlete’s training program. 
A proper meal plan will help manage body com-
position, promote training adaptations and exer-
cise performance, improve recovery, and prevent 
fatigue and injury. When designing a nutritional 
program, you must know what type of athlete you 
are working with. Once that is established, you 
can set total caloric needs, followed by total daily 
grams of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. 
Additionally, we know that the timing of protein 
and carbohydrate in relation to exercise training 
is important to training adaptations. Each of these 
factors plays a critical role in the development of 
peak athletic performance.     
   References 
       1.    Wagenmakers AJM. Muscle amino acid metabolism at 
rest and during exercise: role in human physiology and 
metabolism. Exerc Sport Sci Rev. 1998;26:287–314.  
    2.    Elango R, Ball RO, Pencharz PB. Amino acid require-
ments in humans: with a special emphasis on the 
metabolic availability of amino acids. Amino Acids. 
2009;37:19–27.  
     3.    Wilson JM, Wilson SMC, Loenneke JP, Wray M, 
Norton LE, Campbell BI, Lowery RP, Stout JR. 
Effects of amino acids and their metabolites on aero-
bic and anaerobic sports. Strength Cond J. 2012;
34:33–48.  4 Macronutrient Intake for Physical Activity

74
    4.    Jaksic T, Wagner DA, Burke JF, Young VR. Proline 
metabolism in adult male burned patients and healthy 
control subjects. Am J Clin Nutr. 1991;54:408–13.  
       5.    Reeds PJ. Dispensable and indispensable amino acids 
for humans. J Nutr. 2000;130:1835S–40S.  
    6.    Darmaun D. What is an essential amino acid in 2008? 
Nutrition Clinique Et Metabolisme. 2008;22:142–50.  
    7.    St. Jeor ST, Howard BV , Prewitt TE, Bovee V , 
Bazzarre T, Eckel RH. Dietary protein and weight 
reduction: a statement for healthcare professionals 
from the nutrition committee of the council on nutri-
tion, physical activity, and metabolism of the 
American Heart Association. Circulation. 2001;104:
1869–74.  
    8.      Champe PC, Harvey RA, Ferrier DR. Biochemistry. 
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2005; 83.  
    9.    Moeller SM, Fryhofer SA, Osbahr AJ, Robinowitz 
CB, Amer Med A. The effects of high fructose syrup. 
J Am Coll Nutr. 2009;28:619–26.  
     10.    Larsson SC, Bergkvist L, Wolk A. Consumption of 
sugar and sugar-sweetened foods and the risk of pan-
creatic cancer in a prospective study. Am J Clin Nutr. 
2006;84:1171–6.  
   11.    Malik VS, Popkin BM, Bray GA, Despres JP, Hu 
FB. Sugar-sweetened beverages, obesity, type 2 dia-
betes mellitus, and cardiovascular disease risk. 
Circulation. 2010;121:1356–64.  
    12.    Malik VS, Popkin BM, Bray GA, Despres JP, Willett 
WC, Hu FB. Sugar-sweetened beverages and risk of 
metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes. Diabetes 
Care. 2010;33:2477–83.  
    13.    Kerksick C, Harvey T, Stout J, Campbell B, Wilborn 
C, Kreider R, Kalman D, Ziegenfuss T, Lopez H, 
Landis J, Ivy JL, Antonio J. International Society of 
Sports Nutrition position stand: nutrient timing. J Int 
Soc Sports Nutr. 2008;5:12.  
    14.    Johansson-Persson A, Ulmius M, Cloetens L, Karhu 
T, Herzig K-H, Onning G. A high intake of dietary 
ﬁ ber inﬂ  uences C-reactive protein and ﬁ  brinogen, but 
not glucose and lipid metabolism, in mildly hypercho-
lesterolemic subjects. Eur J Nutr. 2014;53(1):39–48.  
    15.    Wanders AJ, Feskens EJ, Jonathan MC, Schols HA, 
de Graaf C, Mars M. Pectin is not pectin: a random-
ized trial on the effect of different physicochemical 
properties of dietary ﬁ  ber on appetite and energy 
intake. Physiol Behav. 2014;128:212–9.  
    16.    Trumbo P, Schlicker S, Yates AA, Poos M. Dietary 
reference intakes for energy, carbohydrate, ﬁ  ber, fat, 
fatty acids, cholesterol, protein and amino acids. J Am 
Diet Assoc. 2002;102:1621–30.  
    17.    Ludwig DS. Dietary glycemic index and obesity. 
J Nutr. 2000;130:280S–3S.  
    18.    Roberts SB. High-glycemic index foods, hunger, and 
obesity: is there a connection? Nutr Rev. 2000;58:163–9.  
       19.    Gagne L. The glycemic index and glycemic, load in 
clinical practice. Explore. 2008;4:66–9.  
    20.    Salmeron J, Manson JE, Stampfer MJ, Colditz GA, 
Wing AL, Willett WC. Dietary ﬁ  ber, glycemic load, 
and risk of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus in 
women. JAMA. 1997;277:472–7.       21.    Atkinson FS, Foster-Powell K, Brand-Miller JC. 
International tables of Glycemic Index and Glycemic 
Load values: 2008. Diabetes Care. 2008;31:2281–3.  
     22.    Krauss RM, Blanche PJ, Rawlings RS, Fernstrom HS, 
Williams PT. Separate effects of reduced carbohy-
drate intake and weight loss on atherogenic dyslipid-
emia. Am J Clin Nutr. 2006;83:1025–31.  
    23.    Akinkuolie AO, Paynter NP, Padmanabhan L, Mora 
S. High-density lipoprotein particle subclass 
 heterogeneity and incident coronary heart disease. 
Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2014;7:55–63.  
    24.    Simopoulos AP. The importance of the omega-6/
omega-3 fatty acid ratio in cardiovascular disease and 
other chronic diseases. Exp Biol Med. 2008;233:
674–88.  
     25.    Ibiebele TI, Nagle CM, Bain CJ, Webb PM. Intake of 
omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids and risk of ovarian 
cancer. Cancer Causes Control. 2012;23:1775–83.  
    26.    Chowdhury R, Warnakula S, Kunutsor S, Crowe F, 
Ward HA, Johnson L, Franco OH, Butterworth AS, 
Forouhi NG, Thompson SG, Khaw KT, Mozaffarian 
D, Danesh J, Di Angelantonio E. Association of 
dietary, circulating, and supplement fatty acids with 
coronary risk: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Ann Intern Med. 2014;160:398–408.  
    27.    Mozaffarian D, Katan MB, Ascherio A, Stampfer MJ, 
Willett WC. Medical progress—trans fatty acids and 
cardiovascular disease. N Engl J Med. 2006;354:
1601–13.  
    28.    Michas G, Micha R, Zampelas A. Dietary fats and 
cardiovascular disease: putting together the pieces of 
a complicated puzzle. Atherosclerosis. 2014;234(2):
320–8.  
    29.    Brooks GA, Mercier J. Balance of carbohydrate and 
lipid utilization during exercise - the crossover con-
cept. J Appl Physiol. 1994;76:2253–61.  
     30.    Black AE, Coward WA, Cole TJ, Prentice AM. Human 
energy expenditure in afﬂ  uent societies: an analysis of 
574 doubly-labelled water measurements. Eur J Clin 
Nutr. 1996;50:72–92.  
    31.    Position of the American Dietetic Association, 
Dietitians of Canada, and the American College of 
Sports Medicine. Nutrition and athletic performance. 
J Am Diet Assoc. 2009;109:509–27.  
    32.    Harris J, Benedict F. A biometric study of basal 
metabolism in man. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott; 
1919.  
    33.    Cunningham JJ. A reanalysis of the factors inﬂ  uenc-
ing basal metabolic-rate in normal adults. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 1980;33:2372–4.  
     34.    Thompson J, Manore MM. Predicted and measured 
resting metabolic rate of male and female endurance 
athletes. J Am Diet Assoc. 1996;96:30–4.  
    35.    De Lorenzo A, Bertini I, Candeloro N, Piccinelli R, 
Innocente I, Brancati A. A new predictive equation to 
calculate resting metabolic rate in athletes. J Sports 
Med Phys Fitness. 1999;39:213–9.  
     36.    Campbell B. Sports nutrition: enhancing athletic per-
formance. Boca Raton, FL: Taylor & Francis; 2013. 
p. 338.  E. Galvan

75
    37.    Tappy L. Thermic effect of food and sympathetic 
nervous system activity in humans. Reprod Nutr Dev. 
1996;36:391–7.  
    38.      Heymsﬁ  eld SB, Gonzalez M, Shen W, Redman L, 
Thomas D. Weight loss composition is one-fourth fat-
free mass: a critical review and critique of this widely 
cited rule. Obes Rev. 2014;15(4):310–21.  
    39.    Zello GA. Dietary Reference Intakes for the macronu-
trients and energy: considerations for physical activ-
ity. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2006;31:74–9.  
    40.    Campbell B, Kreider RB, Ziegenfuss T, La Bounty P, 
Roberts M, Burke D, Landis J, Lopez H, Antonio J. 
International Society of Sports Nutrition position 
stand: protein and exercise. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2007;4:7.  
    41.    Phillips SM, Van Loon LJC. Dietary protein for ath-
letes: from requirements to optimum adaptation. J 
Sports Sci. 2011;29:S29–38.  
     42.    Costill DL, Sherman WM, Fink WJ, Maresh C, Witten 
M, Miller JM. The role of dietary carbohydrates in 
muscle glycogen resynthesis after strenuous running. 
Am J Clin Nutr. 1981;34:1831–6.  
    43.    Fallowﬁ  eld JL, Williams C. Carbohydrate intake and 
recovery from prolonged exercise. Int J Sport Nutr. 
1993;3:150–64.  
    44.    Loucks AB. Energy balance and body composition in 
sports and exercise. J Sports Sci. 2004;22:1–14.  
   45.    Loucks AB. Low energy availability in the marathon 
and other endurance sports. Sports Med. 2007;37:
348–52.  
    46.    Venkatraman JT, Leddy J, Pendergast D. Dietary fats 
and immune status in athletes: clinical implications. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2000;32:S389–95.  
      47.    Kreider RB, Wilborn CD, Taylor L, Campbell B, 
Almada AL, Collins R, Cooke M, Earnest CP, 
Greenwood M, Kalman DS, Kerksick CM, Kleiner 
SM, Leutholtz B, Lopez H, Lowery LM, Mendel R, 
Smith A, Spano M, Wildman R, Willoughby DS, 
Ziegenfuss TN, Antonio J. ISSN exercise & sport 
nutrition review: research & recommendations. J Int 
Soc Sports Nutr. 2010;7:43.  
    48.    Muoio DM, Leddy JJ, Horvath PJ, Awad AB, 
Pendergast DR. Effect of dietary-fat on metabolic 
adjustments to maximal VO2 and endurance in run-
ners. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1994;26:81–8.  
    49.    Horowitz JF, Mora-Rodriguez R, Byerley LO, Coyle 
EF. Substrate metabolism when subjects are fed car-
bohydrate during exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol 
Metab. 1999;276:E828–35.      50.    Horowitz JF, MoraRodriguez R, Byerley LO, Coyle 
EF. Lipolytic suppression following carbohydrate 
ingestion limits fat oxidation during exercise. Am J 
Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 1997;273:E768–75.  
    51.    Zderic TW, Davidson CJ, Schenk S, Byerley LO, 
Coyle EF. High-fat diet elevates resting intramuscular 
triglyceride concentration and whole body lipolysis 
during exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 
2004;286:E217–25.  
    52.    Ivy JL. Glycogen resynthesis after exercise: effect of 
carbohydrate intake. Int J Sports Med. 1998;19:
S142–5.  
    53.    Williams MB, Raven PB, Fogt DL, Ivy JL. Effects of 
recovery beverages on glycogen restoration and 
endurance exercise performance. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2003;17:12–9.  
     54.    V olek JS. Inﬂ  uence of nutrition on responses to resis-
tance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2004;36:689–96.  
    55.    Tipton KD, Ferrando AA, Phillips SM, Doyle D, 
Wolfe RR. Postexercise net protein synthesis in 
human muscle from orally administered amino acids. 
Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 1999;276:E628–34.  
    56.    Roy BD, Tarnopolsky MA, MacDougall JD, Fowles 
J, Yarasheski KE. Effect of glucose supplement tim-
ing on protein metabolism after resistance training. J 
Appl Physiol. 1997;82:1882–8.  
    57.    Rasmussen BB, Tipton KD, Miller SL, Wolf SE, 
Wolfe RR. An oral essential amino acid-carbohydrate 
supplement enhances muscle protein anabolism after 
resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol. 2000;88:386–92.  
    58.    Tipton KD, Rasmussen BB, Miller SL, Wolf SE, 
Owens-Stovall SK, Petrini BE, Wolfe RR. Timing of 
amino acid-carbohydrate ingestion alters anabolic 
response of muscle to resistance exercise. Am J 
Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2001;281:E197–206.  
    59.    Chandler RM, Byrne HK, Patterson JG, Ivy JL. 
Dietary-supplements affect the anabolic hormones 
after weight-training exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1994;
76:839–45.  
    60.    Kraemer WJ, V olek JS, Bush JA, Putukian M, 
Sebastianelli WJ. Hormonal responses to consecutive 
days of heavy-resistance exercise with or without 
nutritional supplementation. J Appl Physiol. 1998;
85:1544–55.  
    61.    Esmarck B, Andersen JL, Olsen S, Richter EA, 
Mizuno M, Kjaer M. Timing of postexercise protein 
intake is important for muscle hypertrophy with resis-
tance training in elderly humans. J Physiol. 2001;
535:301–11.      4 Macronutrient Intake for Physical Activity

77 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_5      Essential and Nonessential 
Micronutrients and Sport 
           Monica     C.     Serra       and     Kristen     M.     Beavers    
    Abstract  
  The purpose of this chapter is to review the role of micronutrients in sport. 
Attention is given to the function of micronutrients in the body, examples 
of quality dietary sources of each micronutrient, and an assessment of the 
literature examining how the recommended daily intake of a micronutrient 
may or may not change with exercise. The discussion includes plausible 
biological mechanisms of proposed performance enhancement and cur-
rent research to support or negate these claims. Water-soluble vitamins, 
fat-soluble vitamins, macrominerals, and select microminerals are dis-
cussed in detail, and a comprehensive table reviewing all micronutrient 
recommendations for the athletes is provided. Practical applications for 
professionals working with athletes conclude the chapter.  
  Keywords  
  Micronutrients   •   Vitamins   •   Minerals   •   Ergogenic aid   •   Physical 
performance  
5.1         Chapter Introduction 
 In order to maintain normal health, a wide range 
of vitamins, minerals, and trace elements must be 
present in adequate amounts in the body. 
Micronutrients play many important roles in the 
body, including hemoglobin synthesis, mainte-
nance of bone health, adequate immune function, 
and protection of body tissues from oxidative 
damage [ 1 ]. In addition to this, and of interest to 
the athlete, micronutrients are integral in the pro-
cess of energy metabolism. While macronutrients 
(carbohydrate, protein, and fat) constitute the         M.  C.   Serra ,  PhD, RD, ATC      ( *) 
  Gerontology and Geriatric Medicine ,  Medical Center 
and University of Maryland School of Medicine , 
  Baltimore ,  V A ,  USA   
 e-mail: mserra@greccumaryland.edu    
    K.  M.   Beavers ,  PhD, RD    
  Health & Exercise Science Department ,  Wake Forrest 
University ,   Winston-Salem ,  NC ,  USA     5

78
sources of fuel for our bodies, micronutrients 
allow for the breakdown and use of these fuels. 
 To help quantify which micronutrients we 
need and in what amounts, the Food and Nutrition 
Board, along with the Institute of Medicine, 
 provides reference values, known as Dietary 
Reference Intakes (DRIs: Tables  5.1  and  5.2 ), of 
suggested intake of micronutrients to prevent 
deﬁ ciency and provide optimal nutrition [ 2 ]. The 
DRIs consist of four categories: recommended 
dietary allowance (RDA), adequate intake (AI), 
estimated average requirement (EAR), and toler-
able upper intake level (UL). The goal of the 
RDA is to provide a dietary intake level that is 
sufﬁ cient to meet the requirement for 98 % of 
healthy individuals. The AI is used when no RDA 
has been determined, while the EAR is used to 
satisfy the needs of 50 % of individuals within a 
particular group. The UL is the maximum recom-
mended intake that individuals can consume of a 
particular nutrient, without the risk of adverse 
effects. The DRIs vary among gender and age 
groups, and importantly, these values represent 
what is needed for the “normal” individual. Thus, 
if and how micronutrient needs change with 
increased physical activity is still a matter of 
debate. It appears logical that regular intense 
exercise training increases all nutrient require-
ments by increasing turnover and decreasing 
absorption. Moreover, high intakes of micronu-
trients may be required to cover needs related to 
tissue maintenance and repair.
    The purpose of this chapter is to review the 
function of micronutrients in the body, provide 
examples of quality dietary sources of each micro-
nutrient, and assess the literature examining how 
the recommended daily intake of a micronutrient 
may or may not change with exercise.  
5.2     Vitamin Introduction 
 Vitamins are organic compounds naturally found 
in small amounts in food products. They are des-
ignated as essential nutrients because they cannot 
be synthesized by the body in amounts that are 
necessary to support normal physiological func-
tion. Generally, vitamins are classiﬁ  ed as either 
water soluble or fat soluble, based on the medium needed for their absorption. Water-soluble vita-
mins include the B complex (thiamin, riboﬂ  avin, 
niacin, pantothenic acid, pyridoxine, biotin, folic 
acid, cyanocobalamin) and ascorbic acid (vita-
min C), and fat-soluble vitamins include vitamins 
A, D, E, and K. Each group and its associated 
vitamins will be examined in detail in the para-
graphs that follow. 
5.2.1     Water-Soluble Vitamins 
 As their name suggests, water-soluble vitamins 
dissolve readily in water and are lost daily in the 
urine. Because of this, most water-soluble vitamins 
are not stored in the body, necessitating their regu-
lar dietary consumption. The largest contributors 
to the water-soluble vitamins are the B complex 
vitamins, including thiamin (B 1 ), riboﬂ  avin (B 2 ), 
niacin (B 3 ), pantothenic acid, pyridoxine (B 6 ), bio-
tin, folic acid, and cyanocobalamin (B 12 ). B vita-
mins act primarily as coenzymes, facilitating 
hundreds of chemical reactions in our bodies. 
Ascorbic acid, or vitamin C, is also a water-soluble 
vitamin and plays a major role as an antioxidant. 
5.2.1.1     Vitamin B 1  (Thiamin) 
 Thiamine monophosphate (TMP), thiamine 
pyrophosphate (TPP), and thiamine triphosphate 
(TTP) are the three most studied forms of thia-
min. The TPP form makes up ~80 % of thiamin 
in the body, while TMP and TTP each contribute 
~10 %. TPP functions in the metabolism of car-
bohydrates, by serving as a cofactor in the con-
version of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and in the 
transketolase reaction, which synthesizes 
NADPH, deoxyribose, and ribose sugars in the 
pentose phosphate pathway. Thiamin also plays a 
role in branch chain amino acid metabolism and 
may serve a role in nerve conduction and trans-
mission. Although found in a variety of animal 
products and vegetables, an abundance of thia-
min is found in only a few foods (see Table  5.3 ). 
There are no known adverse effects associated 
with thiamin supplementation; therefore, no UL 
has been set. Deﬁ  ciency of thiamin may lead to 
cardiac failure, muscle weakness, neuropathy, 
and gastrointestinal disturbances (all hallmarks 
of the thiamin-deﬁ  ciency disease: beriberi).M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

   Table 5.1    Dietary reference intakes (DRIs): recommended dietary allowances and adequate intakes of vitamins. Food and Nutrition Board,  Institute of Medicine, National Academies   
 Life stage 
group  Vitamin A 
(μg/day) a   Vitamin C 
(mg/day)  Vitamin D 
(μg/day) b,c   Vitamin E 
(mg/day) d   Vitamin K 
(μg/day)  Thiamin 
(mg/day)  Riboﬂ  avin 
(mg/day)  Niacin 
(mg/day) e   Vitamin B6 
(mg/day)  Folate 
(μg/day) f   Vitamin B12 
(μg/day)  Pantothenic 
acid (mg/day)  Biotin 
(μg/day)  Choline 
(mg/day) g  
  Infants   
 0–6 months  400*  40*  10  4*  2.0*  0.2*  0.3*  2*  0.1*  65*  0.4*  1.7*  5*  125* 
 6–12 months  500*  50*  10  5*  2.5*  0.3*  0.4*  4*  0.3*  80*  0.5*  1.8*  6*  150* 
  Children   
 1–3 years   300    15    15    6   30*   0.5    0.5    6    0.5    150    0.9   2*  8*  200* 
 4–8 years   400    25    15    7   55*   0.6    0.6    8    0.6    200    1.2   3*  12*  250* 
  Males   
 9–13 years   600    45    15    11   60*   0.9    0.9    12    1.0    300    1.8   4*  20*  375* 
 14–18 years   900    75    15    15   75*   1.2    1.3    16    1.3    400    2.4   5*  25*  550* 
 19–30 years   900    90    15    15   120*   1.2    1.3    16    1.3    400    2.4   5*  30*  550* 
 31–50 years   900    90    15    15   120*   1.2    1.3    16    1.3    400    2.4   5*  30*  550* 
 51–70 years   900    90    15    15   120*   1.2    1.3    16    1.7    400    2.4  h   5*  30*  550* 
 > 70 years   900    90    20    15   120*   1.2    1.3    16    1.7    400    2.4  h   5*  30*  550* 
  Females   
 9–13 years   600    45    15    11   60*   0.9    0.9    12    1.0    300    1.8   4*  20*  375* 
 14–18 years   700    65    15    15   75*   1.0    1.0    14    1.2    400  i    2.4   5*  25*  400* 
 19–30 years   700    75    15    15   90*   1.1    1.1    14    1.3    400  i    2.4   5*  30*  425* 
 31–50 years   700    75    15    15   90*   1.1    1.1    14    1.3    400  i    2.4   5*  30*  425* 
 51–70 years   700    75    15    15   90*   1.1    1.1    14    1.5    400    2.4  h   5*  30*  425* 
 > 70 years   700    75    20    15   90*   1.1    1.1    14    1.5    400    2.4  h   5*  30*  425* 
  Pregnancy   
 14–18 years   750    80    15    15   75*   1.4    1.4    18    1.9    600  j    2.6   6*  30*  450* 
 19–30 years   770    85    15    15   90*   1.4    1.4    18    1.9    600  j    2.6   6*  30*  450* 
 31–50 years   770    85    15    15   90*   1.4    1.4    18    1.9    600  j    2.6   6*  30*  450* 
(continued)

Table 5.1  (continued)
 Life stage 
group  Vitamin A 
(μg/day) a   Vitamin C 
(mg/day)  Vitamin D 
(μg/day) b,c   Vitamin E 
(mg/day) d   Vitamin K 
(μg/day)  Thiamin 
(mg/day)  Riboﬂ  avin 
(mg/day)  Niacin 
(mg/day) e   Vitamin B6 
(mg/day)  Folate 
(μg/day) f   Vitamin B12 
(μg/day)  Pantothenic 
acid (mg/day)  Biotin 
(μg/day)  Choline 
(mg/day) g  
  Lactation   
 14–18 years   1,200     115    15    19   75*   1.4    1.6    17    2.0    500    2.8   7*  35*  550* 
 19–30 years   1,300     120    15    19   90*   1.4    1.6    17    2.0    500    2.8   7*  35*  550* 
 31–50 years   1,300     120    15    19   90*   1.4    1.6    17    2.0    500    2.8   7*  35*  550* 
  Note: This table (taken from the DRI reports, see   www.nap.edu    ) presents recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) in  bold type   and adequate intakes (AIs) in ordinary type followed by an 
asterisk (*). An RDA is the average daily dietary intake level, sufﬁ  cient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97–98 %) healthy individuals in a group. It is calculated from an estim ated 
average requirement (EAR). If sufﬁ  cient scientiﬁ  c evidence is not available to establish an EAR and thus calculate an RDA, an AI is usually developed. For healthy breast-fed infants, an AI is 
the mean intake. The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed to cover the needs of all healthy individuals in the  groups, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevents being 
able to specify with conﬁ  dence the percentage of individuals covered by this intake 
 Sources: Dietary reference intakes for calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, vitamin D, and ﬂ  uoride (1997); Dietary reference intakes for thiamin, riboﬂ  avin, niacin, vitamin B 6 , folate, vitamin 
B 12 , pantothenic acid, biotin, and choline (1998); Dietary reference intakes for vitamin C, vitamin E, selenium, and carotenoids (2000); Dietary reference intakes for vitamin A, vitamin K, 
arsenic, boron, chromium, copper, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, nickel, silicon, vanadium, and zinc (2001); Dietary refe rence intakes for water, potassium, sodium, chloride, and 
sulfate (2005); and Dietary reference intakes for calcium and vitamin D (2011). These reports may be accessed via   www.nap.edu     
  a As retinol activity equivalents (RAEs). 1 RAE = 1 μg retinol, 12 μg β-carotene, 24 μg α-carotene, or 24 μg β-cryptoxanthin. The RAE for dietary provitamin A carotenoids is twofold greater 
than retinol equivalents (RE), whereas the RAE for preformed vitamin A is the same as RE 
  b As cholecalciferol. 1 μg cholecalciferol = 40 IU vitamin D 
  c Under the assumption of minimal sunlight 
  d As α-tocopherol. α-Tocopherol includes  RRR-  α - tocopherol, the only form of α-tocopherol that occurs naturally in foods, and the  2R -stereoisomeric forms of α-tocopherol ( RRR -,  RSR -,  RRS -, 
and  RSS -α-tocopherol) that occur in fortiﬁ  ed foods and supplements. It does not include the  2S -stereoisomeric forms of α-tocopherol ( SRR -,  SSR -,  SRS -, and  SSS -α-tocopherol), also found in 
fortiﬁ  ed foods and supplements 
  e As niacin equivalents (NE). 1 mg of niacin = 60 mg of tryptophan; 0–6 months = preformed niacin (not NE) 
  f As dietary folate equivalents (DFE). 1 DFE = 1 μg food folate = 0.6 μg of folic acid from fortiﬁ  ed food or as a supplement consumed with food = 0.5 μg of a supplement taken on an empty 
stomach 
  g Although AIs have been set for choline, there are few data to assess whether a dietary supply of choline is needed at all stag es of the life cycle, and it may be that the choline requirement can 
be met by endogenous synthesis at some of these stages 
  h Because 10–30 % of older people may malabsorb food-bound B 12 , it is advisable for those older than 50 years to meet their RDA mainly by consuming foods fortiﬁ  ed with B 12  or a supplement 
containing B 12  
  i In view of evidence linking folate intake with neural tube defects in the fetus, it is recommended that all women capable of b ecoming pregnant consume 400 μg from supplements or fortiﬁ  ed 
foods in addition to intake of food folate from a varied diet 
  j It is assumed that women will continue consuming 400 μg from supplements or fortiﬁ  ed food until their pregnancy is conﬁ  rmed, and they enter prenatal care, which ordinarily occurs after the 
end of the periconceptional period—the critical time for formation of the neural tube  

   Table 5.2    Dietary reference intakes (DRIs): recommended dietary allowances and adequate intakes of elements. Food and Nutrition Board,  Institute of Medicine, National Academies   
 Life stage 
group  Calcium 
(mg/day)  Chromium 
(μg/day)  Copper 
(μg/day)  Fluoride 
(mg/day)  Iodine 
(μg/day)  Iron 
(mg/day)  Magnesium 
(mg/day)  Manganese 
(mg/day)  Molybdenum 
(μg/day)  Phosphorus 
(mg/day)  Selenium 
(μg/day)  Zinc 
(mg/day)  Potassium 
(g/day)  Sodium 
(g/day)  Chloride 
(g/day) 
  Infants   
 0–6 months  200*  0.2*  200*  0.01*  110*  0.27*  30*  0.003*  2*  100*  15*  2*  0.4*  0.12*  0.18* 
 6–12 months  260*  5.5*  220*  0.5*  130*   11   75*  0.6*  3*  275*  20*   3   0.7*  0.37*  0.57* 
  Children   
 1–3 years   700   11*   340   0.7*   90    7    80   1.2*   17    460    20    3   3.0*  1.0*  1.5* 
 4–8 years   1,000    15*   440   1*   90    10    130   1.5*   22    500    30    5   3.8*  1.2*  1.9* 
  Males   
 9–13 years   1,300    25*   700   2*   120    8    240   1.9*   34    1,250     40    8   4.5*  1.5*  2.3* 
 14–18 years   1,300    35*   890   3  *    150    11    410   2.2*   43    1,250     55    11   4.7*  1.5*  2.3* 
 19–30 years   1,000    35*   900   4*   150    8    400   2.3*   45    700    55    11   4.7*  1.5*  2.3* 
 31–50 years   1,000    35*   900   4*   150    8    420   2.3*   45    700    55    11   4.7*  1.5*  2.3* 
 51–70 years   1,000    30*   900   4*   150    8    420   2.3*   45    700    55    11   4.7*  1.3*  2.0* 
 > 70 years   1,200    30*   900   4*   150    8    420   2.3*   45    700    55    11   4.7*  1.2*  1.8* 
  Females   
 9–13 years   1,300    21*   700   2*   120    8    240   1.6*   34    1,250     40    8   4.5*  1.5*  2.3* 
 14–18 years   1,300    24*   890   3*   150    15    360   1.6*   43    1,250     55    9   4.7*  1.5*  2.3* 
 19–30 years   1,000    25*   900   3*   150    18    310   1.8*   45    700    55    8   4.7*  1.5*  2.3* 
 31–50 years   1,000    25*   900   3*   150    18    320   1.8*   45    700    55    8   4.7*  1.5*  2.3* 
 51–70 years   1,200    20*   900   3*   150    8    320   1.8*   45    700    55    8   4.7*  1.3*  2.0* 
 > 70 years   1,200    20*   900   3*   150    8    320   1.8*   45    700    55    8   4.7*  1.2*  1.8* 
  Pregnancy   
 14–18 years   1,300    29*   1,000    3*   220    27    400   2.0*   50    1,250     60    12   4.7*  1.5*  2.3* 
 19–30 years   1,000    30*   1,000    3*   220    27    350   2.0*   50    700    60    11   4.7*  1.5*  2.3* 
 31–50 years   1,000    30*   1,000    3*   220    27    360   2.0*   50    700    60    11   4.7*  1.5*  2.3* 
(continued)

Table 5.2  (continued)
 Life stage 
group  Calcium 
(mg/day)  Chromium 
(μg/day)  Copper 
(μg/day)  Fluoride 
(mg/day)  Iodine 
(μg/day)  Iron 
(mg/day)  Magnesium 
(mg/day)  Manganese 
(mg/day)  Molybdenum 
(μg/day)  Phosphorus 
(mg/day)  Selenium 
(μg/day)  Zinc 
(mg/day)  Potassium 
(g/day)  Sodium 
(g/day)  Chloride 
(g/day) 
  Lactation   
 14–18 years   1,300    44*   1,300    3*   290    10    360   2.6*   50    1,250     70    13   5.1*  1.5*  2.3* 
 19–30 years   1,000    45*   1,300    3*   290    9    310   2.6*   50    700    70    12   5.1*  1.5*  2.3* 
 31–50 years   1,000    45*   1,300    3*   290    9    320   2.6*   50    700    70    12   5.1*  1.5*  2.3* 
  Note: This table (taken from the DRI reports, see   www.nap.edu    ) presents recommended dietary allowances (RDAs) in  bold type   and adequate intakes (AIs) in ordinary type followed by an 
asterisk (*). An RDA is the average daily dietary intake level, sufﬁ  cient to meet the nutrient requirements of nearly all (97–98 %) healthy individuals in a group. It is calculated from an estim ated 
average requirement (EAR). If sufﬁ  cient scientiﬁ  c evidence is not available to establish an EAR and thus calculate an RDA, an AI is usually developed. For healthy breast-fed infants, an AI is 
the mean intake. The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed to cover the needs of all healthy individuals in the  groups, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevents being 
able to specify with conﬁ  dence the percentage of individuals covered by this intake 
 Sources: Dietary reference intakes for calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, vitamin D, and ﬂ  uoride (1997); Dietary reference intakes for thiamin, riboﬂ  avin, niacin, vitamin B 6 , folate, vitamin B 12 , 
pantothenic acid, biotin, and choline (1998); Dietary reference intakes for vitamin C, vitamin E, selenium, and carotenoids (20 00); and Dietary reference intakes for vitamin A, vitamin K, 
arsenic, boron, chromium, copper, iodine, iron, manganese, molybdenum, nickel, silicon, vanadium, and zinc (2001); Dietary refe rence intakes for water, potassium, sodium, chloride, and 
sulfate (2005); and Dietary reference intakes for calcium and vitamin D (2011). These reports may be accessed via   www.nap.edu      

83
     Table 5.3    Summary of water-soluble vitamins   
 Nutrient  Function  Adult (nonpregnant) 
recommended intake  Food sources  Comments for the athlete 
 Thiamin (B 1 )  Carbohydrate 
and amino acid 
metabolism  • UL: N/A 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: weakness, 
decreased endurance, 
weight loss  Yeast, pork, 
fortiﬁ  ed grains, 
cereals, legumes  Studies indicate that there 
is no need for additional 
thiamin supplementation 
above the DRI 
recommendations with 
exercise 
 Riboﬂ  avin (B 2 )  Oxidative 
metabolism, 
electron 
transport system  • UL: N/A 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: altered 
skin and mucous 
membrane and 
nervous system 
function  Milk, almonds, 
liver, eggs, bread, 
fortiﬁ  ed cereals  Athletes who consume 
adequate levels through 
the diet do not require 
supplementation above 
the DRI 
 Niacin (B 3 )  Oxidative 
metabolism, 
electron 
transport system  • UL: 35 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: irritability, 
diarrhea  Meats, ﬁ  sh, 
legumes, 
peanuts, some 
cereals  All persons should obtain 
the DRI for niacin intake 
to ensure adequate intake 
and performance 
 Pantothenic acid  Essential to the 
metabolism of 
fatty acids, 
amino acids, and 
carbohydrates  • UL: N/A 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: muscle 
cramps, fatigue, 
apathy, malaise, 
nausea, vomiting  Liver, egg yolk, 
sunﬂ ower seeds, 
mushrooms, 
peanuts, brewer’s 
yeast, yogurt, 
broccoli  Limited research exists 
on pantothenic acid 
supplementation and 
exercise performance 
 Vitamin B 6   Gluconeogenesis  • UL: 100 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: dermatitis, 
convulsions  Meats, whole 
grain products, 
vegetables, nuts  Exercise has been shown 
to increase the loss of 
vitamin B 6  
 Biotin  Cofactor in 
synthesis of 
fatty acids, 
gluconeogenesis, 
and the 
metabolism of 
leucine  • UL: N/A 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: dermatitis, 
alopecia, 
conjunctivitis  Liver, egg yolk, 
soybeans, yeast, 
cereals, legumes, 
nuts  Not enough information 
to make a 
recommendation 
regarding 
supplementation and 
exercise 
 Folate  Hemoglobin and 
nucleic acid 
formation  • UL:1,000 μg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: anemia, 
fatigue  Yeast, liver, fresh 
green vegetables, 
strawberries  Exercise does not appear 
to increase needs 
 Vitamin B 12   Hemoglobin 
formation  • UL: N/A 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: anemia, 
neurologic symptoms  Organ meats, 
shellﬁ  sh, dairy 
products  Supplemental vitamin B 12  
does not appear to beneﬁ  t 
performance unless a 
nutritional deﬁ  cit is 
present 
 Vitamin C  Antioxidant  • UL: 2,000 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: fatigue, 
loss of appetite  Citrus fruits, 
green vegetables, 
peppers, 
tomatoes, berries, 
potatoes  Results of 
supplementation on 
performance are 
equivocal; possible 
beneﬁ  ts of 
supplementation include 
enhanced immune 
function, antioxidant 
effects, and decreasing 
body temperature 5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

84
   Because of the role thiamin plays in energy 
(particularly carbohydrate) metabolism, it is 
speculated that needs increase with exercise. 
Indeed, the differential RDA for thiamin for men 
and women (1.1 mg/day for adult women and 
1.2 mg/day for adult men) is based on increased 
energy requirements and carbohydrate intake in 
men than women. Further, exercise has been sug-
gested to affect thiamin status by decreasing 
absorption of minerals, increasing turnover and 
metabolism of the nutrients, increasing thiamin- 
dependent mitochondrial enzymes, increasing 
needs through tissue repair and maintenance, and 
varying biochemical adaptations through exer-
cise training [ 3 ]. 
 Suzuki et al. [ 4 ] determined that 100 mg/day of 
thiamin supplementation signiﬁ  cantly decreased 
self-reported fatigue (compared to a placebo) 
after 30 min on a bicycle ergometer. Additionally, 
one mg/kg of intravenous TPP, administered 24 h 
prior to a submaximal exercise bout, resulted in 
reduced serum lactate and postexercise heart rate, 
as well as improved VO 2 max compared to a pla-
cebo [ 5 ]. However, other studies examining sup-
plementation of thiamin derivatives have been 
unsuccessful at showing improvements in exer-
cise performance [ 6 ,  7 ]. Despite a plausible bio-
logical mechanism, the current literature does not 
support thiamin supplementation above the DRI 
recommendations with exercise.  
5.2.1.2     Vitamin B 2  (Riboﬂ  avin) 
 Riboﬂ  avin functions as a catalyst for redox reac-
tions in energy production and many metabolic 
pathways, mainly as a component of ﬂ  avin mono-
nucleotide (FMN) and ﬂ  avin adenine dinucleo-
tide (FAD) [ 8 ]. Also, riboﬂ  avin is required for the 
conversion of other nutrients to their active forms, 
including niacin, folic acid, and vitamin B 6 . FAD 
is part of the electron transport chain, which is 
central to energy production. Signs and symp-
toms of deﬁ  ciency include sore throat, cracked 
and red lips, inﬂ  ammation of the tongue and lin-
ing of the mouth, and bloodshot eyes, although 
overt riboﬂ  avin deﬁ  ciency (ariboﬂ  avinosis) is 
rare. Excess intake of riboﬂ  avin is eliminated in 
the urine; therefore, no UL exists. Most plant and 
animal food sources contain riboﬂ  avin, with milk, liver, whole and enriched grains, and forti-
ﬁ ed cereals among the best dietary sources. 
 Nutritional surveys provided to athletes  suggest 
that most athletes consume the DRI recommended 
amount of riboﬂ  avin [ 9 ,  10 ]; however, whether 
current recommendations are adequate for athletes 
has been debated. Although conﬂ  icting data exists 
as to whether exercise affects the biochemical sta-
tus of riboﬂ  avin in the blood [ 3 ,  11 ], potentially 
due to increased losses [ 3 ,  12 ], supplementation 
does not appear to improve physical ﬁ  tness if 
baseline values are within the normal range [ 13 , 
 14 ]. If riboﬂ  avin deﬁ  ciency is present, however, 
limited data suggest that supplementation may 
improve ﬁ  tness performance [ 13 ]. The current 
consensus is that individuals who consume ade-
quate levels through the diet do not require supple-
mentation above the DRI.  
5.2.1.3     Vitamin B 3  (Niacin) 
 Niacin is a water-soluble vitamin whose deriva-
tives, such as NADH, NAD, NAD+, and NADP, 
play vital roles in substrate metabolism. There is 
growing evidence that NAD+ plays an important 
role in mitochondrial function and energy 
metab olism, calcium homeostasis, and inﬂ  amma-
tion [ 15 ]. Deﬁ  ciencies of this vitamin can result in 
a condition known as pellagra, a disease charac-
terized by scaly skin sores, diarrhea, inﬂ  amed 
mucous membranes, mental confusion, delusions, 
and ultimately death. Although pellagra has 
almost disappeared from industrialized countries, 
it is still common in regions that subsist primarily 
on a corn-based diet, as corn is a very poor source 
of niacin. (It is now known that treating corn 
products in an alkali bath, typically limewater, 
will increase the bioavailability of niacin.) 
 Although critical to the oxidation of fuel 
sources, and thus exercise metabolism, studies 
assessing the role of niacin on metabolic 
responses during acute exercise are limited. With 
small doses of niacin (<1 g/day), supplementa-
tion has been shown to improve agility [ 16 ], but 
not endurance [ 17 ]. Large doses of niacin (typi-
cally supplemented in the form of nicotinic acid) 
have been shown to adversely affect plasma free 
fatty acid concentrations during exercise [ 18 , 
 19 ], and thus, it is hypothesized that large doses M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

85
may negatively impact lower-intensity exercise. 
However, to date, large niacin supplementation 
doses have only been shown to decrease 
 performance when carbohydrate availability is 
low [ 20 ,  21 ]. Surveys of athletic populations 
show that niacin consumption is adequate, with 
only athletes participating in weight-restrictive 
behaviors falling below recommended levels [ 9 , 
 10 ]. At present, it is recommended that all per-
sons obtain the DRI for niacin intake to ensure 
adequate intake and performance.  
5.2.1.4     Vitamin B 5  (Pantothenic Acid) 
 Pantothenic acid performs multiple roles in cel-
lular metabolism and regulation as an integral 
part of two acylation factors: coenzyme A (CoA) 
and acyl carrier protein (ACP). In these forms, 
pantothenic acid is essential to the metabolism of 
fatty acids, amino acids, and carbohydrates, as 
well as the synthesis of cholesterol, steroid hor-
mones, vitamin A, and vitamin D [ 22 ]. Although 
human studies looking at the effect of panto-
thenic acid and exercise performance are limited, 
two studies suggest that supplementation with 
pantothenic acid (or vitamin B 5  derivative) does 
not alter exercise metabolism or exercise perfor-
mance [ 23 ,  24 ].  
5.2.1.5     Vitamin B 6  (Pyridoxine 
and Related Compounds) 
 Vitamin B 6  collectively refers to all biologically 
active forms of vitamin B 6  (including pyridoxal, 
pyridoxamine, and pyridoxine) although the met-
abolically active form of the vitamin is pyridoxal 
phosphate or PLP. B 6  is involved in many differ-
ent cellular processes including gluconeogenesis, 
niacin formation, lipid metabolism, erythrocyte 
function and metabolism, and hormone modula-
tion [ 22 ]. All persons, including athletes, con-
sume adequate amounts of this vitamin [ 10 ,  25 ]. 
Vitamin B 6  is widely distributed in foods (see 
Table  5.3  to view foods with the greatest concen-
trations of vitamin B 6 ) and commonly found in 
multivitamin and mineral supplements. 
 Because exercise has been shown to increase 
the loss of vitamin B 6  as 4-pyridoxic acid [ 26 ] 
and because PLP acts as a cofactor in both gluco-
neogenesis and glycogenolysis, it has been postu lated that supplementation of the vitamin 
may increase exercise performance. Studies show 
that time to exhaustion does not improve follow-
ing B 6  supplementation [ 27 ,  28 ], and thus supple-
mentation above the DRI does not appear to 
improve performance.  
5.2.1.6     Vitamin B 7  (Biotin) 
 Biotin, also known as vitamin H, plays an impor-
tant role in the catalysis of many essential meta-
bolic reactions, including the synthesis of fatty 
acids, gluconeogenesis, and metabolism of leu-
cine. To date no studies have been conducted 
looking at the role of biotin in exercise perfor-
mance in humans.  
5.2.1.7    Folic Acid 
 Named for the abundance of the vitamin in green, 
leafy vegetables (or foliage), folic acid plays sev-
eral important roles in energy metabolism. Folic 
acid is the synthetic form of folate and is needed 
for DNA production and erythropoiesis. 
Deﬁ ciencies, common among athletes [ 10 ,  26 , 
 29 ], can cause errors in cellular replication, par-
ticularly affecting the red blood cells; as a result 
of folate deﬁ  ciency, megaloblastic anemia can 
occur. The DRI for folate is 400 μg/day for 
women and men. Due to its prominent role in cel-
lular growth and differentiation, this value 
increases to 600 and 500 μg/day during preg-
nancy and lactation, respectively [ 2 ]. Folate is 
ubiquitous in nature and found in most all natural 
foods. However, the vitamin is highly susceptible 
to oxidative damage, and thus the folate content 
of foods is easily destroyed by heat. 
 Due to its role in erythrocyte production, it is 
not surprising that researchers question whether 
folic acid supplementation can increase athletic 
performance. Results of one study showed that 
while folate supplementation in an athletic popula-
tion did signiﬁ  cantly increase circulating levels of 
serum folate, this increase did not translate into 
increased performance [ 30 ]. The authors of this 
study speculate that changes in circulating concen-
trations of folate may not reﬂ  ect changes in cellular 
folate status; thus, over- supplementation cannot be 
justiﬁ  ed. At present recommended intake of folate 
follows the DRI for normal individuals.  5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

86
5.2.1.8    Vitamin B 12  (Cyanocobalamin) 
 Cyanocobalamin, or vitamin B 12 , is unlike other 
B vitamins in that plants do not provide it and the 
body is capable of storing it in the liver. Vitamin 
B 12  is involved in fat and carbohydrate metabo-
lism, as well as protein synthesis. Additionally, 
vitamin B 12  is responsible for the conversion of 
homocysteine to methionine, and deﬁ  ciencies in 
the vitamin have been linked to hyperhomocyste-
inemia, an independent risk factor for cardiovas-
cular disease [ 31 ]. In nature, this vitamin is 
synthesized by microorganisms, and thus it is not 
found in plant foods, except when they are con-
taminated by microorganisms. Small amounts of 
vitamin B 12  are found in legumes, which contain 
microorganisms, and may provide the only 
dietary source of vitamin B 12  for vegans. 
 Although older studies have shown that sup-
plemental B 12  does not beneﬁ  t performance 
unless a nutritional deﬁ  cit is present [ 32 ,  33 ], 
controlled, well-designed studies utilizing mod-
ern technology are needed to determine whether 
Vitamin B 12  is needed in larger amounts by indi-
viduals who exercise.  
5.2.1.9    Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid) 
 The functions of vitamin C are based primarily 
on its biological reductant capabilities. As such, 
vitamin C is involved in collagen formation, cor-
tisol synthesis, neurotransmitter synthesis, and 
iron absorption. Vitamin C has also been shown 
to promote resistance to infection through the 
immunologic activity of leukocytes, production 
of interferon, process of inﬂ  ammatory reaction, 
and/or integrity of the mucous membranes [ 22 ]. 
When dietary intake of ascorbic acid is insufﬁ  -
cient, a set of conditions occur (e.g., malaise, 
lethargy, petechiae, gum disease, poor wound 
healing) that are collectively known as scurvy. 
 Important to the athlete, vitamin C has certain 
biological functions that can inﬂ  uence physical 
performance. Due to its requirement in the syn-
thesis of carnitine (the enzyme responsible for 
the transport of long-chain fatty acids into the 
mitochondria), it is thought to play a major role 
in lipid energy availability. Additionally, it may 
act as an antioxidant, along with vitamins A and 
E, preventing cellular damage caused by free radical intermediates. In general, intakes of 0.2–
1.0 g/day reduce oxidative stress, but do not 
improve athletic performance [ 34 ]. Large doses 
(>1.0 g/day) may possibly impair athletic perfor-
mance through reduced mitochondrial biogenesis 
or alterations in vascular function [ 34 ].   
5.2.2     Fat-Soluble Vitamins 
 The fat-soluble vitamins include vitamins A, D, 
E, and K. Vitamins A and E function as antioxi-
dants, and vitamins D and K play a role in bone 
metabolism. Because fat-soluble vitamins are 
stored for extended periods when consumed in 
excess, they create a greater risk for toxicity than 
water-soluble vitamins. Disease states affecting 
the absorption or storage of fat could cause deﬁ  -
ciency of these vitamins. 
5.2.2.1    Vitamin A 
 The roles of vitamin A within the body are vast, 
including immune function, vision, growth, and 
gene expression. Vitamin A comprises a group of 
compounds, including retinol, retinal, retinoic 
acid, or retinyl ester. Provitamin A carotenoids 
(i.e., α-carotene and β-carotene) are precursors to 
retinol, one of the most active forms of vitamin 
A. Some provitamin A carotenoids have been 
found to have antioxidant activity, with β-carotene 
suggested to be the primary anticancer agent in 
fruits and vegetables [ 35 ]. 
 Dietary carotenoids are consumed primarily 
through oils and brightly colored fruits and vegeta-
bles, whereas preformed vitamin A is found only in 
animal products. The RDA requirements for vita-
min A are expressed in retinol activity equivalents 
(RAE). A UL of preformed vitamin A has been rec-
ommended because retinol is stored and metabo-
lized in the liver; however, the liver has a protective 
mechanism for reducing vitamin A metabolites by 
excreting the metabolites in bile. Adverse effects 
associated with an overdose of vitamin A include 
acute effects such as vertigo, blurred vision, and 
nausea, as well as chronic effects such as bone loss 
and liver abnormalities [ 36 ]. 
 To date, there is very little research examining 
the effects of β-carotene supplementation alone M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

87
on muscular strength or endurance. Although 
there is potential for vitamin A supplementation 
to decrease oxidative stresses from exercise, 
research is limited, predominantly because vita-
mins C and E have greater antioxidant capabili-
ties. Further, evidence of vitamin A deﬁ  ciency in 
athletic individuals is lacking, likely because 
body storage is appreciable [ 37 ]. Due to the fat 
solubility properties, supplementation of 
β-carotene is not recommended.  
5.2.2.2    Vitamin D (Calciferol) 
 Although many forms of calciferol (vitamin D) 
exist, the two main forms are ergocalciferol 
(vitamin D 2 ) and cholecalciferol (vitamin D 3 ). 
Vitamin D 2  is produced from ergosterol in the 
diet, while vitamin D 3  is synthesized by ultravio-
let radiation from a precursor of cholesterol in 
the skin. Both forms are biologically inert and 
must be converted to the biologically active 
form, 1,25- dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25 (OH) 2 D). 
The major source of vitamin D for humans is 
sunlight. This source is especially important 
because few dietary sources contain vitamin D 
naturally (see Table  5.4 ). In the United States, 
many dairy foods (i.e., milk and cheese) are  fortiﬁ  ed with vitamin D to avoid deﬁ  ciency in 
latitudes where exposure to sunlight is limited 
during the winter months.
   Excess amounts of vitamin D (hypervitamin-
osis D) can lead to high blood pressure, bone 
loss, and kidney damage. These effects are 
thought to be caused, for the most part, by hyper-
calcemia that may occur with hypervitaminosis 
D [ 38 ]. This is because the function of vitamin D 
is to maintain serum calcium and phosphorus lev-
els within the body by enhancing their absorption 
from the gastrointestinal tract and promoting 
their release from the bones. Active vitamin D 
provides such a role by working in combination 
with the parathyroid hormone (PTH) to mobilize 
calcium and, indirectly, phosphorus from the 
bone to maintain serum concentrations as needed. 
 Studies suggest that serum 25- hydroxyvitamin 
(25(OH)D) concentrations <50 nmol/L is com-
mon among athletes [ 39 – 41 ], with serum proﬁ  les 
often worse depending upon winter season, unfa-
vorable latitude of training, and indoor training 
routine [ 42 ]. Decreased vitamin D is associated 
with increased inﬂ  ammation in athletes [ 43 ]. 
In subjects with elevated baseline inﬂ  ammation, 
the addition of vitamin D supplementation to 
   Table 5.4    Summary of fat-soluble vitamins   
 Nutrient  Function  Adult (nonpregnant) 
recommended intake  Food sources  Comments for the athlete 
 Vitamin A  Vision, immune 
response, epithelial 
cell growth and 
repair  • UL: 3,000 μg preformed 
vitamin A/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: dry skin, dry 
hair, broken ﬁ  ngernails, 
susceptibility to infections  Broccoli, squash, 
sweet potatoes, 
pumpkin, 
cantaloupe, liver, 
milk, eggs  Supplementation of 
β-carotene is not 
recommended 
 Vitamin D  Bone remodeling 
and maintaining 
serum calcium and 
phosphorus 
concentrations  • UL: 100 μg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: osteomalacia, 
osteoporosis, heart 
disease, hypertension   Natural sources  : 
fatty ﬁ  sh, egg yolks 
  Fortiﬁ  ed sources  : 
milk, cereals  May inﬂ  uence bone 
mineralization and help 
prevent fractures 
 Vitamin E  Antioxidant  • UL: 1,000 mg 
α-tocopherol/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: retinopathy, 
neuropathy, and myopathy  Vegetable oils, 
unprocessed cereal 
grains, green leafy 
vegetables, nuts  Antioxidant properties 
may be beneﬁ  cial in 
decreasing oxidative 
stress during exercise 
bouts 
 Vitamin K  Essential for normal 
blood clotting  • UL: N/A 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: increase in 
blood clotting time and 
decrease in bone mineral 
density  Green leafy 
vegetables, cereal, 
organ meats, dairy 
products, eggs  Supplementation may be 
needed for formation of 
bone 5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

88
exercise has been shown to reduce inﬂ  ammation 
beyond that of exercise alone [ 44 ]. Further, insuf-
ﬁ cient vitamin D may increase risk for injuries, 
such as stress fractures, which are quite common 
among athletes. In older adults, increasing serum 
25(OH)D levels from 53 to 74 nmol/L by supple-
mentation reduced fracture risk by 33 % over 5 
years [ 45 ]. In a large sample of active female 
military recruits, supplementation with 800 IU/
day of vitamin D for 8 weeks resulted in 20 % 
lower incidence of stress fractures than the pla-
cebo group [ 46 ]. 
 With regard to athletic and muscular perfor-
mance, studies examining the effects of vitamin 
D supplementation in young athletes are sparse. 
A recent study examining the effects of 5,000 IU/
day of vitamin D 3  supplementation for 8 weeks 
showed that supplementation resulted in 
improved 10 m sprint time and vertical jump 
height [ 39 ]. In older adults (>50 years of age), 
beneﬁ  cial effects of vitamin D treatment have 
been observed on muscle function, including 
muscle strength [ 47 ,  48 ] and physical function 
[ 49 ,  50 ], when vitamin D status is low prior to 
supplementation. However, the beneﬁ  cial effect 
of supplementation on physical function is not 
universally observed. A recent review showed 
that over half of the previously published papers 
examining the effects of vitamin D supplementa-
tion on muscle function show a lack of an effect 
versus beneﬁ  cial results [ 51 ]. 
 In conclusion, and much like the other micro-
nutrients, while randomized controlled trial evi-
dence is not strong enough to suggest vitamin D 
as an ergogenic aid, insufﬁ  cient levels of vitamin 
D can contribute to decreased athletic perfor-
mance, potentially by increasing the risk of debil-
itating stress fractures. Thus, obtaining optimal 
25(OH)D levels (i.e., ≥50 ng/mL) through diet 
and UV exposure is recommended.  
5.2.2.3    Vitamin E 
 Unlike the other fat-soluble vitamins, vitamin E 
has no speciﬁ  c metabolic function. Instead, its 
major function is as an antioxidant of polyunsat-
urated fatty acids, preventing free radical damage 
in biological membranes caused by lipid peroxi-
dation. Because vitamin E is absorbed similarly to dietary fat, changes in pancreatic function, 
chylomicron transport of lipids, and bile produc-
tion are known to impair vitamin E absorption 
[ 52 ]. The majority of vitamin E is stored in the 
adipose tissue, while smaller amounts are stored 
in the heart, liver, lungs, brain, muscles, and adre-
nal glands. Eight naturally occurring isomers of 
vitamin E exist; however, only the α-tocopherol 
form is maintained in human plasma [ 53 ]. 
Adverse effects of vitamin E deﬁ  ciency include 
retinopathy, neuropathy, and myopathy; however, 
deﬁ ciency occurs rarely in humans. There are no 
adverse effects noted with ingestion of naturally 
occurring vitamin E in foods. As a nutritional 
supplement, side effects include fatigue, gastro-
intestinal disturbances, and altered lipid concen-
trations. Nutritional supplements contain either a 
natural or synthetic form of α-tocopherol. 
 Studies examining the effects of vitamin E 
supplementation on oxidative stress and lipid 
peroxidation during exercise are numerous. 
Compared to a placebo, supplementation of 
800 mg/day α-tocopherol for 2 months [ 54 ] 
resulted in improvements in antioxidant potential 
1.5 h after completing a triathlon. However, the 
large dose also appeared to cause signiﬁ  cant 
increases in oxidative stress markers and did not 
improve performance time. Conversely, free radi-
cal production was reduced in basketball players 
following lower dose supplementation (1 month 
of 200 mg/day of α-tocopherol) [ 55 ]. Regarding 
performance, no difference in aerobic work 
capacity was observed following supplementa-
tion with a low (35 days of 268 mg/day of vita-
min E [ 56 ]) or high dose (4 weeks of daily 
1,200 IU of α-tocopherol [ 57 ]) of vitamin 
E. Additionally, supplementation with 400–
1,000 IU of vitamin E does not appear to reduce 
biochemical indices of muscle damage following 
acute, strenuous exercise [ 58 ,  59 ]. Interestingly, 
data from a recent randomized controlled trial 
suggests that combined vitamin E and C supple-
mentation (which often occurs together) may 
hamper beneﬁ  cial cellular adaptations to exercise 
[ 60 ], with authors interpreting results to advocate 
caution when considering antioxidant supple-
mentation combined with endurance exercise. 
Further research should be aimed at determining M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

89
speciﬁ  c recommendation regarding vitamin E 
supplementation on exercise performance, oxida-
tive stress, and muscle damage.  
5.2.2.4    Vitamin K 
 Two forms of vitamin K naturally exist: phyllo-
quinones (vitamin K 1 ), produced by plants, and 
menaquinones (vitamin K 2 ), produced by bacte-
ria in the large intestine. The predominant forms 
of intake in the diet are phylloquinones, from 
green leafy vegetables. Vitamin K functions as a 
critical cofactor of γ-carboxylase, an essential 
posttranslational modiﬁ  cation required for the 
functional activity of coagulation proteins such 
as prothrombin. Deﬁ  ciency of vitamin K leads to 
changes in blood clotting (increased prothrombin 
time) and a decrease in bone mineral density 
(increase in plasma under- γ-carboxylated osteo-
calcin) [ 61 ]. 
 Although no studies on the effects of vitamin 
K supplementation and performance exist, sup-
plementation beneﬁ  ts on bone mass have been 
studied. Vitamin K 1  (10 mg/day) supplementation 
in younger (20–30 years of age), female endur-
ance athletes showed no effect on the rate of bone 
loss following 2 years of supplementation [ 62 ]. It 
was determined that females beginning endurance 
training at younger ages were at risk for higher 
amounts of bone loss than those that began their 
training at a later age; however, both groups had a 
relatively high rate of bone loss when compared 
to standards for females of the same age. In post-
menopausal elite female athletes, 1 month of K 1  
supplementation (10 mg/day) resulted in increased 
bone formation marker and decreased bone 
resorption marker production [ 63 ].   
5.2.3     Vitamins and Exercise 
Summary 
 Because both fat- and water-soluble vitamins are 
essential to human physiological function, exam-
ining their effect on exercise, both on athletic 
performance and deﬁ  ciency avoidance, is popu-
lar in sport nutrition research. In summary, the 
grouping of “B vitamins” has two major func-
tions directly related to exercise. Thiamin,  riboﬂ  avin, vitamin B 6 , niacin, pantothenic acid, 
and biotin are involved in energy production dur-
ing exercise, whereas folate and vitamin B 12  are 
required for the production of red blood cells, 
protein synthesis, and tissue repair and mainte-
nance. Vitamin C may play a role in improved 
immune function and may indirectly beneﬁ  t ath-
letic performance. Although it is thought that 
exercise may slightly increase the need for these 
vitamins, demands can usually be met by the 
increased energy intakes required for physically 
active persons to maintain energy balance. The 
two major functions of the fat-soluble vitamins 
include the antioxidant activity of vitamins A and 
E and bone formation of vitamins D and K. 
 In general, beneﬁ  ts of vitamin supplementation 
in regard to increased exercise needs or improved 
athletic performance are assumed inconclusive, 
unless stated otherwise. More research is needed 
before micronutrient  supplementation above the 
DRI should be recommended to athletes, either as 
a requirement for increased needs during exercise 
or as an ergogenic aid.    
 Sidebar 5.1 Multivitamin and Mineral 
Supplementation: To Supplement or Not? 
 Current recommendations from the 
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics sug-
gest consuming a wide variety of foods to 
avoid chronic disease and micronutrient 
deﬁ ciency. Although it is ideal to consume 
nutrients through a balanced diet, over-the- 
counter multivitamin and mineral supple-
ments may contribute to total nutrient 
intake, especially if dietary intake is inade-
quate. The percentage of US adults who 
used at least one multivitamin and mineral 
supplement increased from 30 % in 1988–
1994 to 39 % in 2003–2006, with use more 
common among women than men [ 64 ]. 
Lun et al. [ 65 ] recently reported that multi-
vitamin and mineral use in high- 
performance athletes is 16 %, with 87 % of 
taking ≥3 dietary supplements (e.g., com-
(continued)5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

90
5.3     Mineral Introduction 
 Dietary minerals are chemical agents required by 
living organisms to maintain physical health. Like 
vitamins, minerals also regulate macronutrient 
use and are classiﬁ  ed as either macrominerals or 
microminerals/trace elements, depending on the 
daily amount needed. Additionally, minerals play 
various roles involved in enzyme regulation, 
maintenance of acid-base balance, nerve and 
function, and cellular growth. Because many of 
these processes are heightened during exercise, 
the ﬁ eld of exercise nutrition has sought to explore 
the relationship between different mineral needs 
and physical activity. Such ﬁ  ndings, along with 
the general function, effects of deﬁ  ciency or over-
supplementation, and recommended intake lev-
els, are the focus of this section. 5.3.1     Macrominerals 
 Macrominerals are required in amounts greater 
than 100 mg/day and include calcium, phospho-
rus, magnesium, sulfur, potassium, sodium, and 
chloride. A comprehensive review of the above 
listed macrominerals and their role in physical 
performance can be found in Table  5.5 .
5.3.1.1      Calcium 
 Calcium is the most abundant mineral in the 
body, totaling approximately 1–2 % of body 
weight. Ninety-nine percent of calcium in the 
body is found in the structure of the teeth and 
bones. The remaining 1 %, found in the blood, 
muscle, extracellular ﬂ  uid, and other tissues, 
functions in different roles throughout the body, 
such as in vascular and muscle contractions, 
blood coagulation, and nerve transmission [ 68 ]. 
At low calcium concentration, absorption 
depends on the activation of vitamin D; however, 
passive diffusion becomes more common at 
higher concentrations [ 68 ]. In addition to vitamin 
D, calcitonin and parathyroid hormone (PTH) are 
two hormones that regulate serum calcium con-
centrations. Calcitonin and PTH increase when 
blood calcium concentrations drop, causing cal-
cium to be released from bone, reabsorbed in the 
kidneys, and absorbed in the intestines. A high- 
protein diet, as well as foods containing sodium, 
phytates, ﬁ  ber, oxalic acid, and caffeine, may 
decrease the bioavailability and absorption of 
dietary calcium. 
 The two main calcium compounds found in 
supplements are calcium citrate and calcium car-
bonate. Calcium carbonate supplements typically 
contain 40 % calcium, while calcium citrate sup-
plements contain 21 % calcium; therefore, more 
calcium citrate must be taken to equal a similar 
amount of calcium available in calcium carbon-
ate [ 69 ]. Amounts less than 500 mg/day of cal-
cium generally are recommended because 
absorption decreases as the amount of calcium in 
the supplement increases. Calcium citrate sup-
plements are typically better absorbed in indi-
viduals with decreased stomach acid [ 69 ], usually 
a result of taking the supplement with food. 
When adolescent females were supplemented 
with 670 mg/day of a calcium citrate malate bination of multivitamin and mineral sup-
plements, sports drinks, sports bars, protein 
powder, and meal-replacement products). 
In general, supplementation to an athlete 
on a well-balanced diet has not been shown 
to improve performance. Eight weeks of 
supplementation with a liquid multivitamin 
and mineral supplement in resistance- 
trained men did not appear to improve 
short-duration anaerobic exercise perfor-
mance compared to a placebo [ 66 ]. In addi-
tion, no apparent difference in endurance 
performance was observed in athletes who 
regularly consume multivitamin and min-
eral supplements versus those who do not 
[ 67 ]. Research to evaluate whether supple-
mentation with megadoses of multivitamin 
and mineral improves performance is nec-
essary. However, because supplements are 
concentrated sources of nutrients and 
dietary supplements may be marketed 
without providing evidence of safety or 
efﬁ cacy, it is important for health-care pro-
fessionals to monitor for excess nutrient 
intake in those choosing to consume a 
 multivitamin and mineral supplement. Sidebar 5.1 (continued)M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

91
      Table 5.5    Summary of minerals   
 Nutrient  Function  Adult (nonpregnant) 
recommended intake  Food sources  Comments for the 
athlete 
 Calcium  Structure of the 
teeth and bone, 
vascular and muscle 
contractions, blood 
coagulation, nerve 
transmission  • UL: 
  2,500 g/day in adults 
≤50 years 
  2,000 g/day in adults 
>50 years 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: improper 
bone mineralization, 
tetany, muscle pain and 
spasms  Dairy products, 
pinto and black 
beans, spinach, 
fortiﬁ  ed cereal, 
orange juice  Possible effects of 
calcium supplementation 
on body weight and 
sweat losses during 
exercise; however, 
current recommendation 
is DRI 
 Phosphorus  Essential for strong 
bones and teeth and 
energy metabolism  • UL: 
  4 g/day in adults 
≤70 years 
  3 g/day in adults
 >70 years 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: anorexia, 
muscle weakness, bone 
pain, rickets, confusion  Milk, carbonated 
cola drinks, eggs, 
whole wheat 
bread, almonds, 
lentils, some ﬁ  sh  Phosphate loading may 
increase exercise 
performance; however, 
supplementation is 
potentially harmful 
 Magnesium  Energy metabolism, 
neuromuscular 
coordination, bone 
mineralization  • UL: 350 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: 
hypocalcemia, tetany, 
tremors, muscular 
weakness, confusion  Wheat ﬂ  our, 
artichokes, 
pumpkin seeds, 
almonds, tuna  Although exercise may 
increase needs, current 
recommendation is DRI 
 Sulfate  Protein synthesis 
and formation of 
disulﬁ  de bridges  • UL: N/A 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: stunted 
growth  Meat, poultry, ﬁ  sh, 
eggs, dried beans, 
broccoli, 
cauliﬂ  ower  Although exercise may 
increase needs, current 
recommendation is DRI 
 Potassium  Water balance, 
acid-base balance, 
electrical potential 
gradients across 
membranes  • UL: N/A 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: muscle 
weakness, myalgia, 
increased risk of 
hyponatremia  Tomatoes, orange 
juice, beans, 
raisins, potatoes, 
grapefruit  Exercise does not appear 
to increase needs 
 Sodium  Maintain 
extracellular volume 
and plasma 
osmolality  • UL: 2.3 g/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: 
hyponatremia, muscle 
cramps, overhydration, 
hypotension  Processed and 
cured meats and 
cheeses, frozen 
meals  Ultra-endurance athletes 
and those with 
occupational physical 
activity and heat 
exposure may beneﬁ  t 
from supplementation 
 Chloride  Same as sodium  • UL: 3.6 g/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: 
overhydration, 
hypotension, muscle 
cramps  Similar to 
sodium- containing 
foods  Similar to sodium 
 Iron  Transportation of 
oxygen in the body  • UL: 45 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: fatigue, 
lack of stamina, 
breathlessness, 
headaches, insomnia  Lean red meats, 
seafood, beans, 
leafy green 
vegetables, 
molasses  May have beneﬁ  cial 
effects on physical 
performance in those 
who are iron deﬁ  cient 
 Zinc  Aids in wound 
healing and is a 
vital component of 
many enzymatic 
reactions  • UL: 40 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: altered 
taste, hair loss, diarrhea, 
fatigue, delayed wound 
healing  Oysters, wheat 
germ, ground 
beef, liver, ricotta 
cheese  Evidence supporting 
zinc supplementation in 
athletes has been 
equivocal 
(continued)5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

92
Table 5.5  (continued)
 Nutrient  Function  Adult (nonpregnant) 
recommended intake  Food sources  Comments for the 
athlete 
 Chromium  Involved in 
carbohydrate, 
protein, and lipid 
metabolism and 
facilitates the action 
of insulin  • UL: N/A 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: weight loss, 
peripheral neuropathy, 
impaired glucose 
utilization, and 
increased insulin 
requirements  Eggs, liver, 
oysters, wheat 
germ, spinach, 
broccoli, apples, 
bananas  Studies suggest that 
chromium 
supplementation beneﬁ  ts 
may only occur in 
individuals with 
impaired chromium 
concentrations 
 Boron  Function 
unknown—
proposed functions 
include metabolism 
of vitamin D, 
macromineral 
metabolism, and 
immune function  • UL: 20 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: proposed 
effects include 
decreased bone density, 
mineral metabolism, 
and cognitive function  Grapes, leafy 
vegetables, nuts, 
grains, apples, 
raisins  Boron supplementation 
does not appear to effect 
physical performance 
 Copper  Enzyme catalyst, 
enhances iron 
absorption, 
antioxidant  • UL: 10,000 μg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: leukopenia, 
fatigue, hair loss, 
anorexia, diarrhea  Shellﬁ  sh, ﬁ  nﬁ sh, 
beef, table salt, 
coffee  No known beneﬁ  ts of 
supplementation on 
performance 
 Fluoride  Mineralized bones 
and teeth  • UL: 10 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: dental 
caries weakened bone  Fluorinated water, 
tea, ﬁ  sh, legumes, 
potatoes  No known beneﬁ  ts of 
supplementation on 
performance; however, 
suboptimal intake may 
affect bone mineral 
density 
 Iodine  Essential in thyroid 
hormone function  • UL: 1,100 μg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: goiter, 
reduced mental 
function, 
hypothyroidism  Iodized table salt, 
seafood, kelp, 
dairy  No known beneﬁ  ts of 
supplementation on 
performance; however, 
suboptimal thyroid 
hormone concentrations 
may affect performance 
 Manganese  Antioxidant, bone 
formation, 
metabolism of 
amino acids, lipids, 
and carbohydrates  • UL: 11 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: decreased 
growth, impaired 
glucose tolerance, 
dermatitis  Nuts, leafy 
vegetables, whole 
grains, pineapple, 
teas  No known beneﬁ  ts of 
supplementation on 
performance 
 Molybdenum  Enzymatic cofactor  • UL: 2,000 μg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: headache, 
night blindness, 
tachycardia, tachypnea  Carrots, cabbage, 
legumes, nuts  No known beneﬁ  ts of 
supplementation on 
performance 
 Selenium  Defends against 
oxidative stress  • UL: 400 μg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: 
cardiomyopathy 
muscular weakness, 
pain  Brazil nuts, 
seafood, ﬁ  sh and 
shellﬁ  sh, meats, 
garlic, eggs  No known beneﬁ  ts of 
supplementation on 
performance; however, 
may be beneﬁ  cial due to 
antioxidant effects. 
Toxic if consumed in 
excess 
 Vanadium  Stimulates cell 
proliferation and 
differentiation, 
regulates phosphate- 
dependent enzymes, 
insulin-mimetic 
activity  • UL: 1.8 mg/day 
 • Deﬁ  ciency: heart and 
kidney disease, 
reproductive disorders  Black pepper, 
beer, wine, 
mushrooms, 
sweeteners, grains  No known beneﬁ  ts of 
supplementation on 
performance M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

93
supplement (mean daily intake approximately 
1,500 mg/day) for 7 years, supplementation posi-
tively inﬂ  uenced gain of bone mass throughout the 
bone-modeling phase of the pubertal growth spurt, 
which is when requirements of calcium are deter-
mined to be the highest [ 70 ]. By the beginning of 
young adulthood, the only signiﬁ  cant ﬁ  ndings 
were seen in those of tall subjects, suggesting that 
calcium requirements vary with skeletal size. 
Positive effects of calcium supplementation were 
seen at all skeletal regions examined during the 
young adulthood assessment period. 
 In a large placebo-controlled trial of 1,000 mg 
calcium carbonate plus 400 IU vitamin D 3 , exami-
nation of physical performance and self-reported 
exercise measures after 1, 2, and 4 years did not 
result in improvements in subjective or objective 
physical function [ 71 ]. However, the effects of 
calcium supplementation on physical perfor-
mance are lacking. Possible effects of supplemen-
tation on body weight and sweat losses warrant 
review, especially since low calcium intake is 
well documented in athletes [ 72 – 74 ]. Martin et al. 
found that 400 mg/day of calcium carbonate sup-
plementation can correct negative calcium bal-
ance attributable to low calcium dietary intake 
and additional dermal losses following a 1-h 
strenuous exercise session [ 75 ]. Elevated urinary 
calcium losses also are observed following high-
impact and resistance training exercise program 
[ 76 ]. Thus, calcium supplementation may beneﬁ  t 
those involved in  high- intensity sports, as well as 
those with weight restrictions. Overall, current 
research does not support the need for calcium 
supplementation above the DRI; however, more 
research is required.  
5.3.1.2    Phosphorus 
 Phosphorus is essential for all living cells as a 
component in phospholipid membranes, as well 
as in nucleic acids and nucleotides. Eighty-ﬁ  ve 
percent of total body phosphorus is found in the 
bone, and the remaining 15 % is found in the soft 
tissues. The form of phosphorus most commonly 
found in nature is phosphate; however, while 
stored in the bone, the main form is hydroxyapa-
tite crystals. Although extremely rare, because 
phosphorus is well dispersed throughout plant and animal foods, deﬁ  ciency of serum  phosphorus 
may lead to anorexia, muscle weakness, bone 
pain, rickets, confusion, and death. High intake 
of phosphorus may reduce serum calcium con-
centrations and reduce the formation of active 
vitamin D, leading to an increase of PTH. Elevated 
PTH is associated with increased bone loss to 
maintain serum calcium concentrations. Along 
with its adverse effects on the bone, overcon-
sumption of phosphorus also may cause calciﬁ  -
cation of soft tissues, especially the kidney. 
 Athletes often consume excess phosphorus 
due to “phosphate loading.” The aim of the sup-
plementation is to improve tissue oxidation by 
increasing erythrocyte 2,3-diphosphoglycerate 
concentrations. Phosphate loading may result in 
improved athletic performance in endurance ath-
letes by improving oxygen release in tissues. For 
ergogenic purposes, sodium phosphate typically 
is supplemented orally in capsule form, at a dose 
of 3–5 g/day for a period of between 3 and 6 days 
[ 77 ]. Numerous studies have shown positive 
effects of phosphate loading on peak power out-
put, increased anaerobic threshold, and improved 
cardiovascular responses in trained athletes [ 78 –
 80 ]. Before phosphorus supplementation is rec-
ommended among athletes; however, effects on 
performance and bone mineralization must be 
evaluated.  
5.3.1.3    Magnesium 
 As a required cofactor for over 300 enzymatic 
reactions, magnesium plays an important role in 
aerobic and anaerobic energy generation. Other 
functions of magnesium include immune func-
tion, neuromuscular coordination, and bone min-
eralization. Magnesium is important in vitamin D 
absorption and metabolism. It also plays a struc-
tural role in the body. Fifty to sixty percent of 
body magnesium is stored in the bones, and the 
parathyroid hormone is dependent upon magne-
sium for regulation of calcium in the bone. Also, 
magnesium is required for regulating the outward 
movement of potassium from myocardial cells 
and the intracellular concentration of calcium 
during muscle contractions [ 68 ]. Serum magne-
sium depletion may lead to hypocalcemia, tetany, 
tremors, muscular weakness, and confusion. 5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

94
 Several studies report that athletes may be 
deﬁ cient in magnesium [ 74 ,  81 ,  82 ], and exercise 
is believed to increase magnesium requirements 
by as much has 10–20 % [ 83 ]. Because of its role 
in immune function, low magnesium status could 
contribute to the depressed immunological 
changes observed after strenuous exercise, which 
may be sufﬁ  cient to lead to an infection, particu-
larly upper respiratory tract infections [ 84 ]. 
Mooren et al. [ 85 ] observed that 2 months of 
magnesium supplementation was unable to pre-
vent exhaustive exercise-induced alterations in 
immune cell function in athletes with balanced 
magnesium status. Marginal magnesium deﬁ  -
ciency also resulted in increased peak oxygen 
uptake and peak heart rate following submaximal 
exercise compared to those with adequate mag-
nesium intake [ 86 ]. Recently, Kass et al. found 
that supplementation with 300 mg of magnesium 
oxide resulted in reduced resting and recovery of 
systolic blood pressure following aerobic and 
resistance exercise, but did not have an effect on 
athletic performance [ 87 ]. Overall, studies do not 
support the need for supplementation of physi-
cally active individuals, with adequate magne-
sium status, to improve performance.  
5.3.1.4    Sulfur 
 The mineral, sulfur, is a major constituent of 
three amino acids: cystine, cysteine, and 
 methionine. Additionally, sulfur is involved in 
protein synthesis, as it is responsible for the for-
mation of disulﬁ  de bridges, a necessary compo-
nent of the tertiary structure of proteins. Dietary 
sources of sulfur include meat, poultry, ﬁ  sh, eggs, 
dried beans, broccoli, and cauliﬂ  ower. 
 Current research studying the effect of sulfur 
on athletic performance is limited to amino acids 
containing the mineral. While a DRI is currently 
not available for sulfur, at present there is no lit-
erature to suggest that athletes need to consume 
higher amounts than the average person.  
5.3.1.5    Potassium 
 As an electrolyte, potassium plays a major role in 
electrical and cellular body functions. Along with 
sodium and chloride, potassium is involved in 
maintaining water balance and distribution, osmotic equilibrium, acid-base balance, and elec-
trical potential gradients across membranes [ 88 ]. 
Because nerve and muscle cells have the highest 
gradients of bodily cells, potassium plays a major 
role in nerve and muscle function. 
 Due to its role in muscle function, several 
studies have been conducted looking at the rela-
tionship between potassium and exercise perfor-
mance. Prolonged exhaustive exercise has been 
shown to impair potassium transport processes in 
exercising muscle [ 89 ]. This impairment can lead 
to a rise in extracellular potassium concentration 
in the skeletal muscle, which is thought to play an 
important role in the development of fatigue dur-
ing intense exercise [ 90 ]. 
 Although few studies have been conducted 
looking at the effects of potassium supplementa-
tion on exercise performance, an interesting study 
suggests that potassium phosphate supplementa-
tion may mediate perceived and physiological 
exertion [ 91 ]. In a double-blind, placebo- 
controlled study, eight highly trained endurance 
runners were asked to provide a rating of per-
ceived exertion (RPE) during maximal graded 
exercise tests. Results showed that overall RPE 
was lower with supplementation, thus encourag-
ing prolonged activity; however, no group differ-
ences were observed in maximal physiological 
response. Additional studies are warranted before 
exercise-speciﬁ  c recommendations can be made.  
5.3.1.6    Sodium and Chloride 
 The cation, sodium, and the anion, chloride, are 
normally found together in most foods as sodium 
chloride, also known as salt, with the highest 
concentrations found in prepared, cured, or pick-
led food products. In the body, sodium and chlo-
ride are required to maintain extracellular volume 
and plasma osmolality. Healthy adults should 
consume 1.5 g of sodium and 2.3 g of chloride 
each day, or 3.8 g of salt, to replace the amount 
lost in sweat [ 92 ]. Sweat is produced by our bod-
ies as a by-product of thermoregulation. Should 
the capacity for sweat production be hindered, a 
rise in core temperature and resultant heat illness 
could result. For the athlete, conditions such as 
extreme heat or exercise intensity can signiﬁ  -
cantly elevate sweat losses above what is M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

95
 considered normal, and resultant dietary 
 adjustments must be made. 
 Given the critical need to maintain ﬂ  uid 
homeostasis, the American College of Sports 
Medicine has put forth guidelines for proper 
hydration [ 93 ] (see Table  5.6 ). Inclusion of sodium 
chloride in rehydration beverages has been shown 
to reduce urinary water loss, leading to a more 
rapid recovery of ﬂ  uid balance, with some experts 
now recommending sodium concentrations of 
20–50 mmol/L and an osmolality between 200 
and 330 mOsm/kg water in glucose- electrolyte 
beverages consumed during physical activity [ 94 , 
 95 ]. Fruits, vegetables, and other high-moisture 
foods also make an important contribution to total 
ﬂ uid intake. Evidence suggests that humans 
receive 20–25 % of their daily water intake from 
foods and that recovery from exercise and heat 
exposure is improved when food is ingested 
before consuming water after exercise [ 96 ].
   Recently, there have been reports of hypona-
tremia among individuals who tend to over-ingest 
water during exercise lasting more than 4 h in 
length [ 97 ]. Additionally, lower plasma sodium 
and development of exercise-associated hypona-
tremia may be attributed to pituitary secretion of 
vasopressin, an impaired mobilization of osmoti-
cally inactive sodium stores, and/or an inappropri-
ate inactivation of osmotically active sodium. For 
ultra-endurance athletes, inclusion of sodium 
chloride in the ﬂ  uid replacement beverage is often 
suggested as a potential means of reducing risk of 
hyponatremia. Although hyponatremia is not 
likely to be a major risk factor for the general pop-
ulation, ultra-endurance athletes and people with 
occupational physical activity and heat exposure 
may beneﬁ  t from these recommendations [ 98 ].   5.3.2     Microminerals/Trace Elements 
 Microminerals, or trace elements, include iron, 
zinc, copper, selenium, iodine, ﬂ  uoride, chro-
mium, manganese, molybdenum, boron, and 
vanadium. In general, these elements are required 
in amounts less than 100 mg/day. Although 14 
trace minerals have been identiﬁ  ed as essential 
for life, there is sufﬁ  cient information on only 
four, as related to physical performance. The 
 following section will provide detailed informa-
tion on four of these trace elements, with 
Table  5.5  summarizing recommended dietary 
intake, food sources, and functional role in the 
body for all other microminerals. 
5.3.2.1    Iron 
 Dietary iron is a constituent of hemoglobin, myo-
globin, cytochromes, and iron-containing 
enzymes. As such, iron plays a fundamental role 
in the transport of oxygen in the body, and ade-
quate stores are necessary for optimal athletic 
performance. Dietary iron can be obtained 
through quality food sources, as well as obtained 
from foods prepared in cast iron cookware. 
Furthermore, the bioavailability of iron in certain 
foods (particularly vegetables) can be increased 
by the addition of an acid (i.e., vitamin C) during 
preparation. 
 Iron deﬁ  ciency is the most common nutritional 
disorder disease [ 99 ], with iron status negatively 
altered in many populations of chronically exer-
cising individuals [ 100 ]. Despite claims of blood 
loss as a result of foot striking, gastritis, and men-
struation, as well as the pseudo-anemia caused by 
an increase in plasma volume during exercise, the 
true cause of anemia in athletes often can be    Table 5.6    Hydration guidelines for exercise   
 Pre-exercise  During exercise  Postexercise 
 • ~4 h before exercise, consume 
5–7 mL/kg of a 20–50 mEq Na +  
solution 
 • If urine is dark, drink another 
3–5 mL/kg of a 20–50 mEq Na +  
solution ~2 h before exercise  • Consume 0.4–0.8 L/h 
 • If prolonged, solution should contain: 
  – 5–10 % carbohydrate solution 
  – 20–30 mEq/L Na +  
  – 2–5 mEq/L K +   • If time permits, consumption 
of normal meals and 
beverages will restore 
euhydration 
 • If a more rapid recovery is 
required, consume ~1.5 L 
ﬂ uid per kg body weight lost 
  American College of Sports Medicine [ 93 ]  5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

96
attributed to a diet inadequate in iron [ 101 ]; thus, 
efforts should be placed on the improvement of 
dietary quality. If left untreated, an iron deﬁ  ciency 
can cause anemia, a condition where hemoglobin 
cannot be formed. Iron deﬁ  ciency without anemia 
is found in 29 % of female and 4 % of male recre-
ationally active subjects [ 102 ] and, depending on 
the sport surveyed, can increase to a prevalence 
of 80 % in elite athletes [ 103 ]. In general, reduc-
tions in tissue oxidative capacity hinder endur-
ance and energetic efﬁ  ciency, which translates 
into impaired athletic performance. Numerous 
studies have shown the negative impact of iron 
deﬁ ciency anemia on work output and physical 
performance [ 104 ,  105 ], with supplementation in 
deﬁ cient individuals shown to improve athletic 
performance [ 106 ,  107 ]. 
 Because some individuals carry a gene for 
increased iron absorption, or hemochromatosis, 
over-supplementation is not advised. Iron is a 
very powerful oxidant and is toxic at high con-
centrations; it is for this reason that iron supple-
mentation should only be reserved for those 
individuals who are deﬁ  cient. Moreover, even in 
individuals without hemochromatosis, iron sup-
plementation can cause side effects, usually stom-
ach upset such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dark 
stools, or constipation. In general, female ath-
letes, vegetarians, and endurance athletes are con-
sidered at greater risk for iron deﬁ  ciency than the 
typical athlete; however, proper diagnosis of the 
condition by assessing ferritin levels in the blood 
by a medical provider is necessary before supple-
mentation should be considered.   In addition to the numerous health beneﬁ  ts 
associated with a vegetarian diet [ 110 ], the high- 
carbohydrate nature of a vegetarian diet can be 
beneﬁ  cial for the athlete during heavy training 
when maximizing body glycogen stores is a 
must. Although the beneﬁ  ts to following a vege-
tarian diet are numerous, appropriate nutrition 
education and planning are necessary to ensure 
that dietary needs are being met. Certain nutri-
ents are either not present or are not as easily 
absorbed in plant products as they are in animal 
products. Speciﬁ  cally, vegetarians need to be 
mindful of their intake of iron, calcium, vitamin 
B 12 , and vitamin D, as good sources of these 
nutrients are mostly of animal origin. Listed 
below in Table  5.7  are vegetarian-friendly food 
sources of the nutrients that are most likely to be 
lacking in a vegetarian diet. According to the Vegetarian Resource 
Group, vegetarian diets can be classiﬁ  ed 
into four major groups:
    Vegans:   Do not eat meat, ﬁ  sh, or poultry. 
Additionally, do not use other animal 
products and by-products such as eggs, 
dairy products, honey, leather, fur, silk, 
wool, cosmetics, and soaps derived 
from animal products.  
   Lacto-vegetarians:   Do not eat meat, ﬁ  sh, 
poultry, or eggs; do consume dairy 
products.  
   Ovo-vegetarians:   Do not eat meat, ﬁ  sh, 
poultry, or dairy; do consume egg 
products.  
   Lacto-ovo vegetarians:   Do not eat meat, 
ﬁ sh, or poultry; do consume dairy and 
eggs.    
  Additionally, some persons may self- 
describe themselves as vegetarians if they 
are occasional meat eaters who predomi-
nately practice a vegetarian diet      .  Sidebar 5.2 (continued)
 Sidebar 5.2 The Vegetarian Athlete 
 In a recent poll, 4 % of US adults were 
found to be vegetarian [ 108 ]. While this 
percentage may seem small, in actuality it 
translates to over nine million people! With 
the prevalence at only 1 % in 1997 [ 109 ], 
the trend of vegetarianism shows no sign of 
stopping. 
(continued)M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

97
5.3.2.2       Zinc 
 The mineral zinc primarily serves a structural 
role in thousands of proteins. Additionally, zinc is 
also involved as a cofactor in many enzyme reac-
tions and plays a vital role in tissue repair. As 
with many other nutrients, it has been suggested 
that athletes generally consume less zinc than the 
RDA [ 112 ,  113 ]. In athletes, zinc deﬁ  ciency can 
lead to anorexia, signiﬁ  cant loss in body weight, 
latent fatigue with decreased endurance, and a 
risk of osteoporosis [ 114 ]. Zinc depletion can 
reduce total work capacity of the skeletal muscle 
[ 115 ]; however, exercise has not been shown to 
cause signiﬁ  cant losses in the athlete when 
dietary zinc intake is sufﬁ  cient [ 116 ]. 
 To date, evidence supporting zinc supplemen-
tation in athletes has been equivocal. Two recent 
studies showed that zinc supplementation in ath-
letes resulted in higher antioxidant [ 117 ] and 
greater inﬂ  ammatory responses [ 118 ] than in 
non-supplemented athletes. Kilic et al. reported 
that 4 weeks of zinc supplementation positively 
affected hematological parameters in athletes 
[ 119 ]; yet Lukaski et al. found that neither zinc 
supplementation nor a restricted zinc intake was 
found to have any effect of maximal oxygen 
uptake over a 4-month period [ 120 ]. 
 Although the ergogenic potential for zinc sup-
plementation is debatable, the effects of over- 
supplementation are not. In the body, an intake of zinc greater than 50 mg/day has been shown to 
inhibit copper bioavailability [ 121 ]. Additionally, 
zinc intake ten times greater than the RDA has 
been shown to decrease immune function, reduce 
HDL cholesterol, and increase LDL cholesterol 
[ 122 ]. For these reasons, zinc supplements 
exceeding 15 mg/day are not recommended.  
5.3.2.3    Chromium 
 The two most common forms of chromium are 
chromium III and chromium VI, with chromium 
III being the form most often found in foods 
because of its greater stability. Chromium VI is 
recognized as carcinogenic if inhaled or ingested, 
whereas chromium III is important in carbohy-
drate, lipid, and protein metabolism. Chromium 
helps facilitate the action of insulin, ultimately 
increasing insulin sensitivity and decreasing the 
need for insulin. Chromium is well dispersed 
throughout many food sources. Side effects asso-
ciated with chromium deﬁ  ciency include weight 
loss, peripheral neuropathy, impaired glucose uti-
lization, and increased insulin requirements. 
Although nephritis, hepatic dysfunction, carcino-
gens, and rhabdomyolysis (extreme skeletal mus-
cle damage) are possible effects of high chromium 
intake, at present, no upper limit for chromium 
has been set. 
 Because of chromium’s role in energy metab-
olism, numerous studies examining the effects of 
chromium supplementation and exercise have 
been performed. V olek et al. determined that 
11 μmol chromium III supplementation had no 
effects on glycogen synthesis during recovery 
from high-intensity cycle ergometry    in over-
weight adult males on a high-carbohydrate diet 
[ 123 ]. Likewise, no differences in strength gains 
in older adults during twice-weekly resistance 
training for 12 weeks were observed with 924 μg 
chromium/d as chromium III versus a placebo 
[ 124 ]. Multiple studies have hypothesized that 
beneﬁ  ts of supplementation may only occur in 
individuals with impaired chromium concentra-
tions [ 125 ,  126 ]. Further, chromium supplemen-
tation has been suggested to dispose an individual 
to iron deﬁ  ciency, depending on the dose and 
duration of chromium supplementation [ 125 ].     Table 5.7    Good food sources of speciﬁ  c micronutrients 
for the vegetarian   
 Nutrient  Good food choices 
 Iron  Legumes, leafy green and root 
vegetables, prune juice, tahini, and 
dried fruits 
 Zinc  Grains, legumes, and nuts 
 Calcium  Calcium-set tofu, fortiﬁ  ed beverages 
(orange juice, soy milk), kale, collard, 
mustard greens, tahini, and blackstrap 
molasses 
 Vitamin D  Fortiﬁ  ed foods (soy and rice milk). 
Sun exposure (~10–15 min 2–3 times 
per week) 
 Vitamin B 12   Fortiﬁ  ed foods (cereal, soy, and dairy 
products) and meat analogues 
  Adapted from the Vegetarian Resource Group [ 111 ]  5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

98
5.3.2.4    Boron 
 The physiological role of boron in the body is not 
clearly understood. Proposed functions include 
metabolism of vitamin D, macromineral metabo-
lism, and immune function. Due to a lack of evi-
dence surrounding boron, no DRI has been 
established. 
 Some data suggest that boron may play an 
ergogenic role in athletic performance by increas-
ing the concentration of plasma steroid hormones 
[ 127 ]. Additionally, Meacham et al. have con-
ducted two studies to determine if supplementing 
3 mg/day of boron versus a placebo in athletic 
versus sedentary participants has an effect on 
minerals, namely, phosphorus, magnesium, and 
calcium, affecting bone mineral density (BMD). 
The ﬁ  rst study found that athletes supplemented 
with boron had lower serum magnesium concen-
trations than the sedentary subjects, but no dif-
ferences were seen among activity groups 
receiving the placebo [ 128 ]. Plasma calcium did 
not differ between any groups, and serum phos-
phorus concentrations were signiﬁ  cantly lower 
than baseline values among all groups. The sec-
ond study not only looked at blood mineral con-
centrations, but also BMD using a dual-photon 
absorptiometer [ 129 ]. Boron supplementation 
did not appear to inﬂ  uence BMD; however, 
serum calcium and magnesium increased and 
phosphorus decreased over time in all subjects. 
Serum phosphorus concentrations were signiﬁ  -
cantly lower in boron- supplemented subjects, 
with sedentary levels lower than active individu-
als. Athletic subjects supplemented with boron 
had lower serum magnesium levels than seden-
tary individuals. Due to varied ﬁ  ndings on serum 
mineral concentrations with boron supplementa-
tion, more research should be conducted to deter-
mine effects on BMD.  
5.3.2.5    Other Minerals 
 Little research exists on exercise and the follow-
ing minerals: copper, ﬂ  uoride, iodine, manga-
nese, molybdenum, selenium, and vanadium. 
Functions, DRIs, known effects of exercise, and 
food sources of each nutrient may be found in 
Table  5.5 . Exercise does not appear to increase needs above the DRIs, nor is there conclusive 
evidence recommending the use of supplementa-
tion for increased athletic performance.   
5.3.3     Minerals and Exercise 
Summary 
 Athletes should consume a balanced diet in an 
attempt to obtain adequate amounts of minerals 
necessary for optimal performance. Mineral sup-
plementation may be recommended in those who 
do not consume a balanced diet. Research has con-
sistently found iron and calcium to be consumed 
in low amounts by athletes. During strenuous 
activity or exercise in a hot environment, elevated 
sweat losses may result in increased dietary 
requirements of sodium and chloride. Mineral 
deﬁ ciencies, especially iron and chromium, may 
lead to performance impairment, while deﬁ  cien-
cies in calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus may 
decrease bone health. Overall, when well-nour-
ished athletes are supplemented with minerals, 
including calcium, magnesium, iron, zinc, copper, 
and selenium, no improvements in athletic perfor-
mance have been found. Phosphorus is the lone 
mineral in which multiple studies have shown that 
supplementation may improve performance in 
athletes without deﬁ  ciency. However, due to 
adverse effects with over-supplementation and the 
need for further controlled research, current 
 recommended intake remains the DRI.   
5.4     Chapter Summary 
 In conclusion, the micronutrient needs of the ath-
lete do not appear to differ from that of a healthy 
individual; that is, the athlete may refer to appro-
priate DRI tables to gauge nutrient needs. 
Generally, when dietary intake is adequate, supple-
mentation is unnecessary. If dietary intake is inad-
equate (such as the case of strict vegans and intake 
of vitamin B 12 ), or increased losses through sweat 
occur, supplementation may be warranted; how-
ever, care should be taken not to exceed the upper 
limit of the speciﬁ  c micronutrients in question.  M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

99
5.5     Practical Application 
 For the professional working with the athlete, 
proper assessment should be made of caloric 
intake and expenditure prior to dietary prescrip-
tion recommendations. This involves evaluation 
of current dietary habits (i.e., analysis of a 4-day 
food record or 24-h dietary recall) and exercise 
status (i.e., type, frequency, duration, and inten-
sity of exercise). Additionally, age and gender as 
well as environmental factors (i.e., temperature 
and terrain) should also be considered when 
making dietary recommendations. Professionals 
should emphasize consuming a well-balanced 
diet before recommending supplementation. 
Special attention should be given to female and 
vegetarian athletes who may present with low 
calcium and iron levels. Tables  5.3  through  5.5  
serve as a quick reference for recommended 
intakes and good dietary sources of speciﬁ  c 
micronutrients, as well as the role each plays in 
physical performance.     
   References 
    1.    American Dietetic Association, Dietitians of Canada, 
American College of Sports Medicine, Rodriguez 
NR, Di Marco NM, Langley S. American College of 
Sports Medicine position stand. Nutrition and ath-
letic performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
2009;41(3):709–31.  
     2.    Institute of Medicine’s Food and Nutrition Board. 
Dietary reference intakes: recommended intakes for 
individuals. Washington, DC: National Academy 
Press; 2011. Available from   http://www.iom.edu/
Activities/Nutrition/SummaryDRIs/~/media/Files/
Activity%20Files/Nutrition/DRIs/5_Summary%20
Table%20Tables%201-4.pdf    .  
      3.    Manore MM. Effect of physical activity on thiamine, 
riboﬂ  avin, and vitamin B-6 requirements. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2000;72(2 Suppl):598S–606.  
    4.    Suzuki M, Itokawa Y . Effects of thiamine supple-
mentation on exercise-induced fatigue. Metab Brain 
Dis. 1996;11(1):95–106.  
    5.    Bautista-Hernandez VM, Lopez-Ascencio R, Del 
Toro-Equihua M, Vasquez C. Effect of thiamine 
pyrophosphate on levels of serum lactate, maximum 
oxygen consumption and heart rate in athletes per-
forming aerobic activity. J Int Med Res. 2008;
36(6):1220–6.  
    6.    Webster MJ, Scheett TP, Doyle MR, Branz M. The 
effect of a thiamin derivative on exercise  performance. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 
1997;75(6):520–4.  
    7.    Doyle MR, Webster MJ, Erdmann LD. Allithiamine 
ingestion does not enhance isokinetic parameters of 
muscle performance. Int J Sport Nutr. 1997;7(1):
39–47.  
    8.    Institute of Medicine’s Food and Nutrition Board. 
Dietary reference intakes for thiamin, riboﬂ  avin, nia-
cin, vitamin B6, folate, vitamin B12, pantothenic 
acid, biotin, and choline. Washington, DC: National 
Academy Press; 1998.  
     9.    Marquart LF, Cohen EA, Short SH. Nutrition knowl-
edge of athletes and their coaches and surveys of 
dietary intake. In: Wolinsky I, editor. Nutrition in 
exercise and sport. Boca Raton, FL: CRC; 1998.  
       10.    Wierniuk A, Wlodarek D. Estimation of energy and 
nutritional intake of young men practicing aerobic 
sports. Roczniki Panstwowego Zakladu Higieny. 
2013;64(2):143–8.  
    11.    Sato A, Shimoyama Y , Ishikawa T, Murayama 
N. Dietary thiamin and riboﬂ  avin intake and blood 
thiamin and riboﬂ  avin concentrations in college 
swimmers undergoing intensive training. Int J Sport 
Nutr Exerc Metab. 2011;21(3):195–204.  
    12.    Belko AZ. Vitamins and exercise—an update. Med 
Sci Sports Exerc. 1987;19(5 Suppl):S191–6.  
     13.    Suboticanec K, Stavljenic A, Schalch W, Buzina 
R. Effects of pyridoxine and riboﬂ  avin supplementa-
tion on physical ﬁ  tness in young adolescents. Int J 
Vitam Nutr Res. 1990;60(1):81–8.  
    14.    Fogelholm M, Ruokonen I, Laakso JT, Vuorimaa T, 
Himberg JJ. Lack of association between indices of 
vitamin B1, B2, and B6 status and exercise-induced 
blood lactate in young adults. Int J Sport Nutr. 
1993;3(2):165–76.  
    15.    Ma Y , Chen H, He X, Nie H, Hong Y , Sheng C, et al. 
NAD+ metabolism and NAD(+)-dependent 
enzymes: promising therapeutic targets for neuro-
logical diseases. Curr Drug Targets. 
2012;13(2):222–9.  
    16.    Frankau IM. Acceleration of muscular effort by nic-
otinamide. Br Med J. 1943;2(4323):601–3.  
    17.    Hilsendager D, Karpovich PV . Ergogenic effect of 
glycine and niacin separately and in combination. 
Res Q. 1964;35(Suppl):389–92.  
    18.    Murray R, Bartoli WP, Eddy DE, Horn 
MK. Physiological and performance responses to 
nicotinic-acid ingestion during exercise. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 1995;27(7):1057–62.  
    19.    Trost S, Wilcox A, Gillis D. The effect of substrate 
utilization, manipulated by nicotinic acid, on excess 
postexercise oxygen consumption. Int J Sports Med. 
1997;18(2):83–8.  
    20.    Heath EM, Wilcox AR, Quinn CM. Effects of nico-
tinic acid on respiratory exchange ratio and substrate 
levels during exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
1993;25(9):1018–23.  
    21.    Pernow B, Saltin B. Availability of substrates and 
capacity for prolonged heavy exercise in man. J Appl 
Physiol. 1971;31(3):416–22.  5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

100
      22.    Shils ME, Shike M, Ross AC, Caballeo B, Cousins 
RJ, editors. Modern nutrition in health and disease. 
10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams & 
Wilkins; 2006.  
    23.    Webster MJ. Physiological and performance 
responses to supplementation with thiamin and pan-
tothenic acid derivatives. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol. 1998;77(6):486–91.  
    24.    Wall BT, Stephens FB, Marimuthu K, Constantin- 
Teodosiu D, Macdonald IA, Greenhaff PL. Acute 
pantothenic acid and cysteine supplementation does 
not affect muscle coenzyme A content, fuel selec-
tion, or exercise performance in healthy humans. J 
Appl Physiol (1985). 2012;112(2):272–8.  
    25.    Manore MM. Vitamin B6 and exercise. Int J Sport 
Nutr. 1994;4(2):89–103.  
     26.    Woolf K, Manore MM. B-vitamins and exercise: 
does exercise alter requirements? Int J Sport Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2006;16(5):453–84.  
    27.    Virk RS, Dunton NJ, Young JC, Leklem JE. Effect of 
vitamin B-6 supplementation on fuels, catechol-
amines, and amino acids during exercise in men. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1999;31(3):400–8.  
    28.    Linderman J, Kirk L, Musselman J, Dolinar B, Fahey 
TD. The effects of sodium bicarbonate and pyridox-
ine-alpha-ketoglutarate on short-term maximal exer-
cise capacity. J Sports Sci. 1992;10(3):243–53.  
    29.    Molina-Lopez J, Molina JM, Chirosa LJ, Florea DI, 
Saez L, Planells E. Effect of folic acid supplementa-
tion on homocysteine concentration and association 
with training in handball players. J Int Soc Sports 
Nutr. 2013;10(1):10.  
    30.    Matter M, Stittfall T, Graves J, Myburgh K, Adams 
B, Jacobs P, et al. The effect of iron and folate ther-
apy on maximal exercise performance in female 
marathon runners with iron and folate deﬁ  ciency. 
Clin Sci. 1987;72(4):415–22.  
    31.    Marti-Carvajal AJ, Sola I, Lathyris D, Karakitsiou 
DE, Simancas-Racines D. Homocysteine-lowering 
interventions for preventing cardiovascular events. 
Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013;1, CD006612.  
    32.    Tin May T, Ma Win M, Khin Sann A, Mya-Tu 
M. The effect of vitamin B12 on physical perfor-
mance capacity. Br J Nutr. 1978;40(2):269–73.  
    33.    Montoye HJ, Spata PJ, Pinckney V , Barron L. Effects 
of vitamin B12 supplementation on physical ﬁ  tness 
and growth of young boys. J Appl Physiol. 1955;7(6):
589–92.  
     34.    Braakhuis AJ. Effect of vitamin C supplements on 
physical performance. Curr Sports Med Rep. 2012;
11(4):180–4.  
    35.    Krinsky NI, Johnson EJ. Carotenoid actions and 
their relation to health and disease. Mol Aspects 
Med. 2005;26(6):459–516.  
    36.    McLaren DS, Kraemer K. Retinoids and carotenoids 
in general medicine. World Rev Nutr Diet. 2012;
103:137–47.  
    37.    Lukaski HC. Vitamin and mineral status: effects on 
physical performance. Nutrition. 2004;20(7–8):
632–44.      38.    Jones G. Pharmacokinetics of vitamin D toxicity. 
Am J Clin Nutr. 2008;88(2):582S–6.  
     39.    Close GL, Russell J, Cobley JN, Owens DJ, Wilson 
G, Gregson W, et al. Assessment of vitamin D con-
centration in non-supplemented professional ath-
letes and healthy adults during the winter months in 
the UK: implications for skeletal muscle function. J 
Sports Sci. 2013;31(4):344–53.  
   40.    Hamilton B, Grantham J, Racinais S, Chalabi 
H. Vitamin D deﬁ  ciency is endemic in Middle 
Eastern sportsmen. Public Health Nutr. 2010;13(10):
1528–34.  
    41.    Constantini NW, Arieli R, Chodick G, Dubnov-Raz 
G. High prevalence of vitamin D insufﬁ  ciency in 
athletes and dancers. Clin J Sport Med. 2010;20(5):
368–71.  
    42.    Ogan D, Pritchett K. Vitamin D and the athlete: 
risks, recommendations, and beneﬁ  ts. Nutrients. 
2013;5(6):1856–68.  
    43.    Willis KS, Smith DT, Broughton KS, Larson-Meyer 
DE. Vitamin D status and biomarkers of inﬂ  amma-
tion in runners. Open Access J Sports Med. 
2012;3:35–42.  
    44.    Razavi MZ, Nazarali P, Hanachi P. The effect of an 
exercise programme and consumption of vitamin D 
on performance and respiratory indicators in patients 
with asthma. Sport Sci Health. 2011;6:89–92.  
    45.    Trivedi DP, Doll R, Khaw KT. Effect of four monthly 
oral vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) supplementation 
on fractures and mortality in men and women living 
in the community: randomised double blind con-
trolled trial. BMJ. 2003;326(7387):469.  
    46.    Lappe J, Cullen D, Haynatzki G, Recker R, Ahlf R, 
Thompson K. Calcium and vitamin d supplementa-
tion decreases incidence of stress fractures in female 
navy recruits. J Bone Miner Res. 2008;23(5):741–9.  
    47.    Moreira-Pfrimer LD, Pedrosa MA, Teixeira L, 
Lazaretti-Castro M. Treatment of vitamin D deﬁ  -
ciency increases lower limb muscle strength in insti-
tutionalized older people independently of regular 
physical activity: a randomized double-blind con-
trolled trial. Ann Nutr Metab. 2009;54(4):291–300.  
    48.    Sato Y , Iwamoto J, Kanoko T, Satoh K. Low-dose 
vitamin D prevents muscular atrophy and reduces 
falls and hip fractures in women after stroke: a ran-
domized controlled trial. Cerebrovasc Dis. 2005;
20(3):187–92.  
    49.    Pfeifer M, Begerow B, Minne HW, Suppan K, 
Fahrleitner-Pammer A, Dobnig H. Effects of a long- 
term vitamin D and calcium supplementation on 
falls and parameters of muscle function in 
community- dwelling older individuals. Osteoporos 
Int. 2009;20(2):315–22.  
    50.    Bunout D, Barrera G, Leiva L, Gattas V , de la Maza 
MP, Avendano M, et al. Effects of vitamin D supple-
mentation and exercise training on physical perfor-
mance in Chilean vitamin D deﬁ  cient elderly 
subjects. Exp Gerontol. 2006;41(8):746–52.  
    51.    Rejnmark L. Effects of vitamin d on muscle function 
and performance: a review of evidence from M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

101
 randomized controlled trials. Ther Adv Chronic Dis. 
2011;2(1):25–37.  
    52.    Rigotti A. Absorption, transport, and tissue delivery 
of vitamin E. Mol Aspects Med. 
2007;28(5-6):423–36.  
    53.    Institute of Medicine’s Food and Nutrition Board. 
Dietary reference intakes for vitamin c, vitamin E, 
selenium, and carotenoids. Washington, DC: 
National Academy Press; 2000.  
    54.    McAnulty SR, McAnulty LS, Nieman DC, Morrow 
JD, Shooter LA, Holmes S, et al. Effect of alpha- 
tocopherol supplementation on plasma homocyste-
ine and oxidative stress in highly trained athletes 
before and after exhaustive exercise. J Nutr Biochem. 
2005;16(9):530–7.  
    55.    Tsakiris S, Karikas GA, Parthimos T, Tsakiris T, 
Bakogiannis C, Schulpis KH. Alpha-tocopherol sup-
plementation prevents the exercise-induced reduc-
tion of serum paraoxonase 1/arylesterase activities 
in healthy individuals. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2009;63(2):
215–21.  
    56.    Cobley JN, Marrin K. Vitamin E supplementation 
does not alter physiological performance at ﬁ  xed 
blood lactate concentrations in trained runners. J 
Sports Med Phys Fitness. 2012;52(1):63–70.  
    57.    Itoh H, Ohkuwa T, Yamazaki Y , Shimoda T, 
Wakayama A, Tamura S, et al. Vitamin E supple-
mentation attenuates leakage of enzymes following 
6 successive days of running training. Int J Sports 
Med. 2000;21(5):369–74.  
    58.    Taghiyar M, Ghiasvand R, Askari G, Feizi A, Hariri 
M, Mashhadi NS, et al. The effect of vitamins C and 
e supplementation on muscle damage, performance, 
and body composition in athlete women: a clinical 
trial. Int J Prev Med. 2013;4 Suppl 1:S24–30.  
    59.    Dawson B, Henry GJ, Goodman C, Gillam I, Beilby 
JR, Ching S, et al. Effect of vitamin C and E supple-
mentation on biochemical and ultrastructural indices 
of muscle damage after a 21 km run. Int J Sports 
Med. 2002;23(1):10–5.  
    60.    Paulsen G, Cumming KT, Holden G, Hallen J, 
Ronnestad BR, Sveen O, et al. Vitamin C and E sup-
plementation hampers cellular adaptation to endur-
ance training in humans: a double-blind randomized 
controlled trial. J Physiol. 2014;592(Pt 8):1887–901.  
    61.    Institute of Medicine’s Food and Nutrition Board. 
Dietary reference intakes for vitamin A, vitamin K, 
arsenic, boron, chromium, copper, iodine, iron, man-
ganese, molybdenum, nickel, silicon, vanadium, and 
zinc. Washington, DC: National Academy Press; 
2001.  
    62.    Braam LA, Knapen MH, Geusens P, Brouns F, 
Vermeer C. Factors affecting bone loss in female 
endurance athletes: a two-year follow-up study. Am 
J Sports Med. 2003;31(6):889–95.  
    63.    Craciun AM, Wolf J, Knapen MH, Brouns F, 
Vermeer C. Improved bone metabolism in female 
elite athletes after vitamin K supplementation. Int J 
Sports Med. 1998;19(7):479–84.      64.   Gahche J, Bailey R, Burt V , Hughes J, Yetley E, 
Dwyer J, et al. Dietary supplement use among U.S. 
adults has increased since NHANES III (1988–
1994). NCHS Data Brief. 2011;61.  
    65.    Lun V , Erdman KA, Fung TS, Reimer RA. Dietary 
supplementation practices in Canadian high- 
performance athletes. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2012;22(1):31–7.  
    66.    Fry AC, Bloomer RJ, Falvo MJ, Moore CA, 
Schilling BK, Weiss LW. Effect of a liquid multivita-
min/mineral supplement on anaerobic exercise per-
formance. Res Sports Med. 2006;14(1):53–64.  
    67.    Knechtle B, Knechtle P, Schulze I, Kohler 
G. Vitamins, minerals and race performance in ultra- 
endurance runners—Deutschlandlauf 2006. Asia 
Pac J Clin Nutr. 2008;17(2):194–8.  
      68.    Institute of Medicine’s Food and Nutrition Board. 
Dietary reference intakes for calcium, phosphorus, 
magnesium, vitamin D, and ﬂ  uoride. Washington, 
DC: National Academy Press; 1997.  
     69.   National Institutes of Health’s Ofﬁ  ce of Dietary 
Supplements. Calcium: Dietary supplement fact 
sheet 2013 [updated November 21, 2013]. Available 
from   http://ods.od.nih.gov/factsheets/Calcium-
HealthProfessional/      
    70.    Matkovic V , Goel PK, Badenhop-Stevens NE, 
Landoll JD, Li B, Ilich JZ, et al. Calcium supple-
mentation and bone mineral density in females from 
childhood to young adulthood: a randomized con-
trolled trial. Am J Clin Nutr. 2005;81(1):175–88.  
    71.    Brunner RL, Cochrane B, Jackson RD, Larson J, 
Lewis C, Limacher M, et al. Calcium, vitamin D 
supplementation, and physical function in the 
Women’s Health Initiative. J Am Diet Assoc. 
2008;108(9):1472–9.  
    72.    Paschoal VC, Amancio OM. Nutritional status of 
Brazilian elite swimmers. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc 
Metab. 2004;14(1):81–94.  
   73.    Rico-Sanz J, Frontera WR, Mole PA, Rivera MA, 
Rivera-Brown A, Meredith CN. Dietary and perfor-
mance assessment of elite soccer players during a 
period of intense training. Int J Sport Nutr. 
1998;8(3):230–40.  
     74.    Papadopoulou SK, Papadopoulou SD, Gallos 
GK. Macro- and micro-nutrient intake of adolescent 
Greek female volleyball players. Int J Sport Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2002;12(1):73–80.  
    75.    Martin BR, Davis S, Campbell WW, Weaver 
CM. Exercise and calcium supplementation: effects 
on calcium homeostasis in sportswomen. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2007;39(9):1481–6.  
    76.    Nemoseck T, Kern M. The effects of high-impact 
and resistance exercise on urinary calcium excretion. 
Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2009;19(2):162–71.  
    77.    Buck CL, Wallman KE, Dawson B, Guelﬁ   
KJ. Sodium phosphate as an ergogenic aid. Sports 
Med. 2013;43(6):425–35.  
    78.    Folland JP, Stern R, Brickley G. Sodium phosphate 
loading improves laboratory cycling time-trial 5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

102
 performance in trained cyclists. J Sci Med Sport. 
2008;11(5):464–8.  
   79.    Brewer CP, Dawson B, Wallman KE, Guelﬁ   
KJ. Effect of repeated sodium phosphate loading on 
cycling time-trial performance and VO2peak. Int J 
Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2013;23(2):187–94.  
    80.    Kreider RB, Miller GW, Schenck D, Cortes CW, 
Miriel V , Somma CT, et al. Effects of phosphate 
loading on metabolic and myocardial responses to 
maximal and endurance exercise. Int J Sport Nutr. 
1992;2(1):20–47.  
    81.    Rankinen T, Lyytikainen S, Vanninen E, Penttila I, 
Rauramaa R, Uusitupa M. Nutritional status of the 
Finnish elite ski jumpers. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
1998;30(11):1592–7.  
    82.    Beals KA. Eating behaviors, nutritional status, and 
menstrual function in elite female adolescent volleyball 
players. J Am Diet Assoc. 2002;102(9):1293–6.  
    83.    Nielsen FH, Lukaski HC. Update on the relationship 
between magnesium and exercise. Magnes Res. 
2006;19(3):180–9.  
    84.    Laires MJ, Monteiro C. Exercise, magnesium and 
immune function. Magnes Res. 2008;21(2):92–6.  
    85.    Mooren FC, Golf SW, V olker K. Effect of magne-
sium on granulocyte function and on the exercise 
induced inﬂ  ammatory response. Magnes Res. 
2003;16(1):49–58.  
    86.    Lukaski HC, Nielsen FH. Dietary magnesium deple-
tion affects metabolic responses during submaximal 
exercise in postmenopausal women. J Nutr. 
2002;132(5):930–5.  
    87.    Kass LS, Skinner P, Poeira F. A pilot study on the 
effects of magnesium supplementation with high 
and low habitual dietary magnesium intake on rest-
ing and recovery from aerobic and resistance exer-
cise and systolic blood pressure. J Sports Sci Med. 
2013;12(1):144–50.  
    88.    Mahan LK, Escott-Stump S, editors. Krause’s food and 
nutrition therapy. Philadelphia, PA: Saunders; 2007.  
    89.    Juel C. Changes in interstitial K+ and pH during 
exercise: implications for blood ﬂ  ow regulation. 
Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2007;32(5):846–51.  
    90.    Vissing J, Haller RG. Mechanisms of exertional 
fatigue in muscle glycogenoses. Neuromuscul 
Disord. 2012;22 Suppl 3:S168–71.  
    91.    Goss F, Robertson R, Riechman S, Zoeller R, 
Dabayebeh ID, Moyna N, et al. Effect of potassium 
phosphate supplementation on perceptual and physi-
ological responses to maximal graded exercise. Int J 
Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2001;11(1):53–62.  
    92.    Institute of Medicine’s Food and Nutrition Board. 
Dietary reference intakes: water, potassium, sodium, 
chloride, and sulfate. Washington, DC: National 
Academy Press; 2004.  
     93.    Sawka MN, Burke LM, Eichner ER, Maughan RJ, 
Montain SJ, et al. American College of Sports 
Medicine position stand. Exercise and ﬂ  uid replace-
ment. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2007;39(2):377–90.  
    94.    Sharp RL. Role of sodium in ﬂ  uid homeostasis with 
exercise. J Am Coll Nutr. 2006;25(3 Suppl):231S–9.      95.    European Food Safety Authority Panel on Dietetic 
Products Nutrition and Allergies. Scientiﬁ  c Opinion 
on the substantiation of health claims related to 
carbohydrate- electrolyte solutions and reduction in 
rated perceived exertion/effort during exercise, 
enhancement of water absorption during exercise, 
and maintenance of endurance performance pursu-
ant to Article 13(1) of Regulation (EC) No 
1924/20061. EFSA J. 2011;9(6):29.  
    96.    Sharp RL. Role of whole foods in promoting hydra-
tion after exercise in humans. J Am Coll Nutr. 
2007;26(5 Suppl):592S–6.  
    97.    Rosner MH. Exercise-associated hyponatremia. 
Semin Nephrol. 2009;29(3):271–81.  
    98.    Jeukendrup AE. Nutrition for endurance sports: mar-
athon, triathlon, and road cycling. J Sports Sci. 
2011;29 Suppl 1:S91–9.  
    99.    Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Iron 
deﬁ ciency—United States, 1999–2000. Morb Mortal 
Wkly Rep. 2002;51:897–9.  
    100.    Suedekum NA, Dimeff RJ. Iron and the athlete. Curr 
Sports Med Rep. 2005;4(4):199–202.  
    101.    Weight LM, Noakes TD, Labadarios D, Graves J, 
Jacobs P, Berman PA. Vitamin and mineral status of 
trained athletes including the effects of supplementa-
tion. Am J Clin Nutr. 1988;47(2):186–91.  
    102.    Sinclair LM, Hinton PS. Prevalence of iron deﬁ  -
ciency with and without anemia in recreationally 
active men and women. J Am Diet Assoc. 
2005;105(6):975–8.  
    103.    Hinton PS, Giordano C, Brownlie T, Haas JD. Iron 
supplementation improves endurance after training 
in iron-depleted, nonanemic women. J Appl Physiol 
(1985). 2000;88(3):1103–11.  
    104.    DellaValle DM, Haas JD. Impact of iron depletion 
without anemia on performance in trained endurance 
athletes at the beginning of a training season: a study 
of female collegiate rowers. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc 
Metab. 2011;21(6):501–6.  
    105.    Dellavalle DM, Haas JD. Iron status is associated 
with endurance performance and training in female 
rowers. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2012;44(8):1552–9.  
    106.    DellaValle DM. Iron supplementation for female 
athletes: effects on iron status and performance out-
comes. Curr Sports Med Rep. 2013;12(4):234–9.  
    107.    Hinton PS, Sinclair LM. Iron supplementation main-
tains ventilatory threshold and improves energetic 
efﬁ ciency in iron-deﬁ  cient nonanemic athletes. Eur J 
Clin Nutr. 2007;61(1):30–9.  
    108.   Stahler C. How often do Americans Eat vegetarian 
meals? And how many adults in the U.S. are vegetar-
ian?: The Vegetarian Resource Group; 2012 [cited 
2014 March 20, 2014]. Available from Four percent 
of U.S. adults were found to be vegetarian—see 
more at   http://www.vrg.org/blog/2012/05/18/how-
often- do-americans-eat-vegetarian-meals-and-how-
many-adults-in-the-u-s-are-vegetarian/#sthash.
EeuVDYey.dpuf      
    109.   How many vegetarians are there? Vegetarian 
J. 1997;XVI(5).  M.C. Serra and K.M. Beavers

103
    110.    McEvoy CT, Temple N, Woodside JV . Vegetarian 
diets, low-meat diets and health: a review. Public 
Health Nutr. 2012;15(12):2287–94.  
    111.   Veganism in a Nutshell: The Vegetarian Resource 
Group; 2014 [cited 2014 March 20, 2014]. Available 
from   http://www.vrg.org/nutshell/vegan.htm      
    112.    Giolo De Carvalho F, Rosa FT, Marques Miguel 
Suen V , Freitas EC, Padovan GJ, Marchini 
JS. Evidence of zinc deﬁ  ciency in competitive swim-
mers. Nutrition. 2012;28(11-12):1127–31.  
    113.    Daneshvar P, Hariri M, Ghiasvand R, Askari G, 
Darvishi L, Iraj B, et al. Dietary behaviors and nutri-
tional assessment of young male isfahani wrestlers. 
Int J Prev Med. 2013;4 Suppl 1:S48–52.  
    114.    Micheletti A, Rossi R, Ruﬁ  ni S. Zinc status in ath-
letes: relation to diet and exercise. Sports Med. 
2001;31(8):577–82.  
    115.    Van Loan MD, Sutherland B, Lowe NM, Turnlund JR, 
King JC. The effects of zinc depletion on peak force 
and total work of knee and shoulder extensor and 
ﬂ exor muscles. Int J Sport Nutr. 1999;9(2):125–35.  
    116.    Lukaski HC. Effects of exercise training on human 
copper and zinc nutriture. Adv Exp Med Biol. 
1989;258:163–70.  
    117.    Kara E, Gunay M, Cicioglu I, Ozal M, Kilic M, 
Mogulkoc R, et al. Effect of zinc supplementation on 
antioxidant activity in young wrestlers. Biol Trace 
Elem Res. 2010;134(1):55–63.  
    118.    Kara E, Ozal M, Gunay M, Kilic M, Baltaci AK, 
Mogulkoc R. Effects of exercise and zinc supple-
mentation on cytokine release in young wrestlers. 
Biol Trace Elem Res. 2011;143(3):1435–40.  
    119.    Kilic M, Baltaci AK, Gunay M. Effect of zinc sup-
plementation on hematological parameters in ath-
letes. Biol Trace Elem Res. 2004;100(1):31–8.  
    120.    Lukaski HC, Bolonchuk WW, Klevay LM, Milne 
DB, Sandstead HH. Changes in plasma zinc content 
after exercise in men fed a low-zinc diet. Am J 
Physiol. 1984;247(1 Pt 1):E88–93.      121.    Fischer PW, Giroux A, L’Abbe MR. Effect of zinc 
supplementation on copper status in adult man. Am J 
Clin Nutr. 1984;40(4):743–6.  
    122.    Chandra RK. Excessive intake of zinc impairs 
immune responses. JAMA. 1984;252(11):1443–6.  
    123.    V olek JS, Silvestre R, Kirwan JP, Sharman MJ, 
Judelson DA, Spiering BA, et al. Effects of chro-
mium supplementation on glycogen synthesis after 
high-intensity exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
2006;38(12):2102–9.  
    124.    Campbell WW, Joseph LJ, Ostlund Jr RE, Anderson 
RA, Farrell PA, Evans WJ. Resistive training and 
chromium picolinate: effects on inositols and liver 
and kidney functions in older adults. Int J Sport Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2004;14(4):430–42.  
     125.    Lukaski HC, Bolonchuk WW, Siders WA, Milne 
DB. Chromium supplementation and resistance 
training: effects on body composition, strength, and 
trace element status of men. Am J Clin Nutr. 
1996;63(6):954–65.  
    126.    V olpe SL, Huang HW, Larpadisorn K, Lesser 
II. Effect of chromium supplementation and exercise 
on body composition, resting metabolic rate and 
selected biochemical parameters in moderately 
obese women following an exercise program. J Am 
Coll Nutr. 2001;20(4):293–306.  
    127.    Naghii MR. The signiﬁ  cance of dietary boron, with 
particular reference to athletes. Nutr Health. 
1999;13(1):31–7.  
    128.    Meacham SL, Taper LJ, V olpe SL. Effect of boron 
supplementation on blood and urinary calcium, mag-
nesium, and phosphorus, and urinary boron in ath-
letic and sedentary women. Am J Clin Nutr. 
1995;61(2):341–5.  
    129.    Meacham SL, Taper LJ, V olpe SL. Effects of boron 
supplementation on bone mineral density and 
dietary, blood, and urinary calcium, phosphorus, 
magnesium, and boron in female athletes. Environ 
Health Perspect. 1994;102 Suppl 7:79–82.      5 Essential and Nonessential Micronutrients and Sport

105
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_6Fluid Balance and  Hydration 
for Human Performance
Neil  M. Johannsen and  Conrad  P. Earnest
Abstract
This chapter examines fluid balance for human performance. Topics 
reviewed in this chapter include the nature and function of water in human 
physiology as it pertains to maintaining daily fluid balance; the relation -
ship of fluid balance to human performance when administered before, 
during, and after exercise; and the efficacy of carbohydrate and specially 
formulated drinks to promote improved fluid balance. While dehydration 
is rarely observed during lower-intensity exercise associated with physical 
activity while indoors and under controlled environmental conditions, 
increased preventive strategies are required at higher-intensity, longer 
exercise bouts and under more extreme conditions. The chapter concludes 
with recommendations to optimize fluid balance in recreational activities 
and sports.
Keywords
Hydration • Fluid balance •Water • Exercise
6.1  Nature of  Water 
in the Human Body
Water is considered the most essential macronu -
trient, as death can occur in as few as 3–7 days in 
the absence of adequate fluid intake. Water 
accounts for approximately 60  % of total body 
weight although the actual percentage varies 
greatly depending on several factors including 
age, sex, health status, and body composition. 
Specifically, body water percent is higher in 
 individuals with a greater lean muscle mass 
(~65–75  %) and, consequently, lower in obese N.M. Johannsen, PhD ( *) 
School of Kinesiology, Louisiana State University, 
Baton Rouge, LA 70803, USA
e-mail: njohan1@lsu.edu  
C.P. Earnest, PhD, FACSM 
Woodbolt International, Bryan, TX, USA
Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, USA6

106
individuals (~50  %). Given this relationship 
between lean mass and body water percent, men 
and younger individuals tend to have higher body 
water content.
6.2  Function of  Water 
in the Human Body
Water is the main solvent in the body and, as 
such, serves many physiological functions. The 
primary functions of water include transport of 
gasses and nutrient/waste, lubrication and protec -
tion, structure from intercellular and vascular 
pressures, and body temperature regulation. As to 
the last function, water helps the body maintain 
temperature equilibrium by absorbing consider -
able heat with only small changes in temperature 
and, combined with its high heat of vaporization 
(energy required to change 1  g of liquid into the 
gaseous state at the boiling point), maintains a 
relatively stable body temperature during envi -
ronmental heat stress and the increased internal 
heat load generated by exercise [ 1].
Water is found in two main compartments 
inside the body: intracellular fluid (ICF), which
represents the fluid inside the cells, and extracel -
lular fluid (ECF), which includes the fluid that
flows interstitially (found between cells) and 
intravascularly (fluid inside the vessels). The 
ECF accounts for about one-third of the total
body water and provides cell structure in the 
human body. The ECF also acts as a reactive
medium between various tissues, including 
lymph, saliva, the vitreous humor (fluid inside 
the eyes), fluid secreted by glands and the diges -
tive tract, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and sweat
and urine. Blood plasma accounts for approxi -
mately 20 % of the ECF fluid (3–4 L) and pro -
vides a solvent used in the transport of gasses and 
nutrients/wastes, as well as for sweat and the 
maintenance of acid/base balance. Of the total 
body water, it is commonly taught that ~62  % 
(26Lof the body’s 42 Lof water for an average
80-kg man) is intracellular, with the other third 
(~38%) being ECF [ 1].
The precise volumes of fluids in the specified 
compartments represent average volumes because water in the body is in constant exchange 
between the compartments depending on the 
hydrostatic (blood pressure) and oncotic (colloid 
osmotic) pressure differences [ 2]. Chronic exer -
cise training (in particular resistance training) 
canincreasetheamountofwaterintheICFcom -
ponents because of associated increases in lean 
mass. Conversely, chronic aerobic exercise 
increases intravascular fluid volumes. During an 
acute bout of exercise, fluid from blood plasma is 
forced into the interstitial and intracellular spaces 
because of the increased hydrostatic pressure of 
fluid in the circulatory system.
6.3  Fluid Balance
Fluid balance is the difference between the
amount of fluid entering the body and the amount 
that leaves the body. Considering the many fac -
tors that affect fluid balance, body water levels 
remain fairly stable over long periods of time. In 
this section, the fluid intake and losses will be 
discussed in detail beginning with fluid intake. 
Fluid intake comes from two sources, foods and
liquids. In addition, water is created during the 
breakdown of fuel, termed metabolic water. Of 
the fluid ingested in foods and liquids, roughly 
60 % comes from liquids ingested into the body 
(Table  6.1). These liquids not only include water 
but also juices, milk, sports drinks, and even 
 caffeinated beverages such as sodas and coffee. 
Table 6.1  Dietary reference intake values for total water 
(L/day)
Children Females
1–3 years 1.3 9–13 years 2.1
4–8 years 1.7 14–18 years 2.3
19–70+ years 2.7
Males
9–13 years 2.4 Pregnancy 3
14–18 years 3.3 Lactation 3.8
19–70+ years 3.7
Adapted and modified from: Dietary reference intakes for 
energy, carbohydrate, fiber, fat, fatty acids, cholesterol, 
protein, and amino acids (2002/2005) and Dietary refer -
ence intakes for water, potassium, sodium, chloride, and 
sulfate (2005, www.nap.edu )
N.M. Johannsen and C.P. Earnest

107
On any given day, the average adult consumes 
around1,200 mLor40 oz.ofliquidsperday[ 3].
Another 30  % of fluid intake comes from 
foods(e.g.,fruits,vegetables).Fruitsandvegeta -
bles can contain significant water (~90  %). In 
contrast, foods such as butter, oil, dried meats, 
chocolate, cookies, and cakes have compara -
tively low water content (<20  %). Peanut butter 
and shelled peanuts contain only traces of water, 
whereas walnuts contain 4 % water and dried
coconuts and pecans around 7  %. This percent -
age increases for foods such as molasses (25  %), 
whole wheat bread (35  %), beef hamburger 
(54%), and whole milk (87 %). The following
foods contain at least 90  % water by weight: let -
tuce, raw strawberries, cucumbers, watercress, 
Swiss chard, boiled squash, green peppers, bean 
sprouts, boiled collards, watermelon, cantaloupe, 
canned pumpkin, celery, and raw peaches [ 4].
Metabolic water accounts for the remaining 
~10 % of water that adds to fluid balance. In a 
sedentary person, metabolic water contributes 
approximately 14 % of the daily water require -
ment. The breakdown of the major macronutri -
ents (carbohydrates, fats, protein) results in the 
formation of heat, carbon dioxide, and water. The 
breakdown of 100  g of carbohydrate releases 
55 g of metabolic water, while water occurring 
from protein (41.3 g water/100 g protein) and fat
(110 g water/100  g fat) is roughly equivalent [ 5]. 
In addition, each gram of glycogen is associated 
with ~2.7  g of water in storage which is liberated 
when glycogen is broken down during its catabo -
lism for energy [ 6]. It should be noted, however, 
that metabolic water production alone has mini -
mal affect at maintaining plasma volume levels 
during exercise [ 7].
The human body loses water via four mecha -
nisms: through the skin (evaporation), in air leav -
ing the lungs (expired air, water vapor), and in 
urine and feces. Under resting conditions, water 
lost in the urine constitutes the main route for 
water loss. Water loss through seepage from the 
skin during rest, called insensible perspiration, 
can account for ~250–350  mL of water per day. 
Additional water loss from the skin comes in the 
form of perspiration via sweat glands. Under nor -
mal environmental conditions, sweat losses can amount to between 500 and 700  mL/day, 
 depending on body size. However, sweat losses 
can greatly exceed resting levels during exercise, 
especially under significant thermal stress (high 
ambient temperature and humidity). For exam -
ple, someone exercising in a hot environment can 
produce up to 12  L of sweat (equivalent of 12  kg) 
at a rate of 1  L/h during prolonged exercise. 
These levels of sweat losses can exceed 3  L/h in 
well-acclimated athletes [ 2, 8]. Insensible water 
losses also occur when relatively dry air is 
brought into the lungs and moistened before 
reaching the alveoli. Typical water losses in the 
expired air amount to 250–350  mL daily but can 
be much higher in physically active individuals 
[1].Forphysicallyactivepersons,therespiratory
passages release 2–5  mL of water each minute 
during vigorous exercise, depending on climatic 
conditions of the environment. Ventilatory water 
loss is less in hot, humid climates than in cold 
temperatures (cold air contains little moisture) 
and at high altitudes. At high altitude, water 
losses, from insensible sources, are greater 
because water evaporates more quickly under 
lower air pressures and ventilation rates are 
higher resulting in more air requiring humidifica -
tion as it enters the lungs [ 9].
The volume of urine excreted daily by the 
kidneys ranges from 1,000 to 1,500  mL, or about 
1.5 quarts. This water loss is termed obligatory 
water losses because it is necessary to rid the 
body of metabolic by-products like urea, the end 
product of protein metabolism. Total daily urine 
output can be upregulated to match fluid intake 
in order to prevent excessive water accumulation 
in the body and the associated electrolyte distur -
bances. Urine output may also increase depend -
ing on the macronutrients (carbohydrate, fats, 
protein) in the diet. For example, eating large
amounts of protein can increase obligatory water 
losses as each gram of solute excreted by the 
kidneys requires 15  mL of water [ 1]. Intestinal 
water loss in the form of feces amounts to 100–
200 mL/day. However, water losses can be much 
higher (1,500–5,000  mL/day) in cases where 
individuals have intestinal disturbances and/or 
vomiting. In addition to losing large quantities of 
water, electrolytes are lost resulting in fluid and 
6 Fluid Balance and  Hydration for  Human Performance

108
electrolyte imbalances that can be deadly if not 
corrected [ 1].
In healthy individuals, water lost through 
excessive sweating during exercise can quickly 
result in significant dehydration ( ≥2 % body 
weight loss) [ 10]. The intensity of the physical 
activity, environmental temperature, and relative 
humidity contribute to the amount of water lost through sweating. The mechanisms for sweat loss 
during exercise are covered in the next section. 
Overall, the equation to determine daily fluid bal -
ance can be found below where fluid balance is in 
L/day, body weight is in kg weighed approxi -
mately24 hapartaftervoiding(urinationanddef -
ecation), and insensible water loss is the sum of 
evaporative water loss from the lungs and  skin:
 Fluidbalance food intake fluidintakem etabolic wate r
Insen=+ + ()
- ssiblewaterlosssweat lossurinevolumefecalloss BW Bday ++ + () @-2 WWday1
6.4  Exercise and  Hydration 
Requirements
In order to discuss hydration requirements with 
exercise, heat balance must first be outlined. Heat 
balance or heat storage (HS) is the sum of heat 
gain and loss (see equation below). Heat balance 
during exercise occurs through four main pro -
cesses: evaporation (sweat and respiratory; E), 
conduction (contact with a solid surface; Cd), 
convection (contact with a fluid; Cv), and radia -
tion (electromagnetic waves; R). Exercise
increases metabolic heat production ( M):
 Heat StorageHSC dC v () =± ±± - MR E 
While all four mechanisms are important at 
rest, evaporation is the primary mechanism for 
heat loss during exercise. Not accounting for 
changes in the environment, heat loss through 
evaporation must make up for the increase in 
metabolic heat production. This is apparent in the 
equation below as an increase in metabolic heat 
production increases heat storage (+) and evapo -
ration reduces heat storage (−). The increase in 
metabolic heat production during exercise occurs 
because the body is ~25  % efficient at converting 
stored fuels (fat and carbohydrates) into usable 
energy for muscle contraction and movement. 
The remaining ~75  % of the energy released in 
metabolism accumulates in the body as heat and 
raises the body’s core temperature. Consequently, 
higher metabolic demands on the body, or an increase in exercise intensity, will result in greater 
body heat accumulation and accelerated core 
temperature. In order to stabilize the rise in body 
heat, or core temperature, sweat volume increases 
with an increase in exercise intensity, or meta -
bolic heat production.
Environmental factors affect all the mecha -
nisms responsible for heat storage shown in the 
above equation. A hot environment can increase 
the stored body heat by increasing, or reducing 
the cooling effect of, conduction, convection, and 
radiation. However, a hot environment can 
increase the amount of sweat produced and, 
therefore, the potential for heat loss through 
evaporation. Relative humidity, or the amount of 
water in the air relative to the total amount the air 
can hold, impacts the effectiveness of sweat to 
maintain core body temperature by directly 
affecting the rate of evaporation of sweat from 
the skin. Under extreme environmental condi -
tions, high ambient temperature, and relative 
humidity, sweat beads on the skin and rolls off 
before it has the chance to evaporate. In dry or 
less humid environments, ambient air can hold 
substantially more moisture, and fluid evaporates 
from the skin into the surrounding air and, with it, 
carries substantial heat from the remaining water 
on the skin. The overall effect is cooler water on 
the skin and overall heat loss from the body.
Dehydration results from loss of significant 
amounts of body water during exercise that 
exceeds 1-h duration depending on the intensity 
and type of exercise and resultant sweat rate. 
Larger amounts of water are lost as the result of 
N.M. Johannsen and C.P. Earnest

109
exercise at greater intensity especially when 
 coupled with hot and humid environments as 
shown previously. However, even when exercise 
is conducted in milder environmental conditions, 
sweat is still produced. Sweat rate is also influ -
enced by the level of acclimation to a hot/humid 
environment. Acclimatized individuals can 
achieve sweat rates of around 3  L/h during a bout 
of intense exercise and may reach a total volume 
of 12  L in a single day.
The level of dehydration will determine the 
level of physiologic and performance changes 
that occur. Dehydration approaching 2  % nega -
tively affects body temperature regulation and 
cardiovascular functioning. For example, in one
study, body fluid deficits of only 1  % body weight 
increased the core temperature when compared 
with that seen during equivalent exercise and a 
normal hydrated state; and for each liter of fluid 
lost, the heart rate increased approximately 8 
beats per minute and there was a 1.0  L/min 
decline in cardiac output [ 11]. As dehydration 
worsens, the plasma volume and peripheral blood 
flow decline, and thus, the sweat rate declines in 
the exercising individual, further complicating 
the body’s ability to maintain a safe core temper -
ature. Specifically, dehydration prior to exercise 
or competition equal to approximately 5  % of 
body weight can result in an increase in heart rate 
and core temperature and a reduction in the 
sweating rate, VO 2max, and exercise capacity 
compared to a normal euhydrated state [ 12]. In a 
dehydrated state, this is explained by the reduc -
tion in blood volume that results in less ventricu -
lar filling pressure, which ultimately causes an 
increased heart rate and an approximately 
25–30  % reduction in stroke volume. The conse -
quences are reduced cardiac output and arterial 
blood pressure, leading to reduced aerobic per -
formance [ 13]. In one study, physical work 
capacity and physiological function were shown 
to decline with fluid loss of around 4–5 % body
weight [14]. Dehydration equal to 4.3 % of the
body mass reduced walking endurance by 48 %
along with a 22  % decrease in VO 2max in this 
study [14]. The rise in core body temperature is 
directly related to reduced peripheral blood flow 
and sweat rate. This becomes most pronounced in hot humid environments in which ambient air 
is, for the most part, completely saturated.
Many sports and athletic events have the 
potential to cause large fluid deficits if adequate 
fluid intake is not encouraged. Triathletes and 
other elite endurance athletes can lose approxi -
mately ≥5 L of fluid (~6–10  % of body mass) 
duringcompetition.Forathletesoflowercaliber,
fluid loss does not usually exceed 500  mL/h, 
whereas even in temperate climates of 10  °C 
(50°F),soccerplayerscanloseanaverageof2 L
during a 90-min game [ 15]. Substantial water 
loss occurs outside typical exercise-related events 
too. For example, athletes concerned with “mak -
ing weight” (e.g., boxers, wrestlers, weightlift -
ers) seek out rapid weight loss methods such as 
saunas, steam rooms, or severe dietary alterations 
including restricting fluids, diuretics, and purg -
ing. These techniques accelerate weight loss but 
also increase an athlete’s susceptibility to heat-  
related illness (e.g., muscle cramps, heat exhaus -
tion, heat stroke) [ 16, 17].
6.5  Fluid Balance and  Exercise
As mentioned in Sect.  6.3, fluid balance is the 
sum of fluid intake and fluid loss. In addition, we 
discussed the effect of water losses, particularly 
through evaporation, during exercise and the 
requirements for fluid intake according to envi -
ronmental conditions and the types of activities 
in Sect.  6.4. Much research has been conducted 
on optimal hydration strategies to improve fluid 
balance during exercise. While additional 
research is needed to optimize and individualize 
these strategies, solid recommendations for the 
pre-exercise, during exercise, and post-exercise 
time frames have been made. In each section, the 
recommendations from the American College of 
Sports Medicine position stand on fluid replace -
ment will be outlined first, followed by support -
ing evidence. Note that many of the strategies 
attempt to optimize not only fluid balance but 
also sodium balance recognizing that sodium, the 
primary extracellular and intravascular cation, 
has important implications in reducing water lost 
in urine.
6 Fluid Balance and  Hydration for  Human Performance

110
6.5.1   Before Exercise
The American College of Sports Medicine 
 recommends that individuals try to achieve at 
least a euhydrated, adequately hydrated state 
before starting exercise. Depending on previous 
exercise, environmental exposure, and age, 
among other modifying factors, more aggressive 
approaches than recommended may be necessary 
to achieve a euhydrated state. Hydration strate -
gies should start at least 4 h before exercise and
consist of ingesting 5–7  mL of fluid per kg body 
weight. Additional fluids should be ingested 
about 2  h before exercise if the urine color is still 
dark. In order to reduce the amount of ingested 
fluids before exercise, foods or snacks containing 
sodium are recommended. The evidence to sup -
port these recommendations is strong, in particu -
lar, core temperature and cardiovascular function 
(heart rate and cardiac output) are better main -
tained during exercise when the individual is 
properly hydrated at the onset. At the time the 
position stand was written, research into sodium-  
containing beverages before exercise was scarce. 
However, recent research in which participants 
ingested 350  mL of chicken noodle soup as a pre-  
exercise beverage showed an increase in ad libi -
tum water intake during long-duration exercise 
and a potential alteration in kidney function to 
reduce urine output during exercise in both tem -
perate and hot/dry environments [ 18, 19]. Other 
methods of pre-exercise hyperhydration aimed at 
expanding intravascular volumes, including glyc -
erol (discussed in Sect.  6.8), have not been very 
successful.
6.5.2   During Exercise
Prior to exercise, additional fluid intake (hyper -
hydration) can provide some initial prevention 
against dehydration and other heat-related prob -
lems affecting performance. This is especially 
true during exercise in which there is no fluid 
intake. The pre-exercise ritual helps facilitate 
increases in sweating during exercise with a much 
less pronounced increase in body temperature. 
A sensible method for increasing  pre- exercise hydration is to ingest around 500  mL of water the 
night before competition, another 500  mL first 
thing in the morning, and another 400–600 mL
(13–20  oz.) of cool water approximately 20  min 
before exercise [ 8, 20]. In a study involving elite 
soccer players, a regimented intake of fluid of 
roughly 4.5 L/day a week (even though greater
urine output) before competition helped facilitate 
better temperature regulation during a warm 
weather competition creating a 1.1  L greater total 
body fluid volume when compared to the ath -
letes’ typical daily intake of fluid [ 21].
Pre-exercise water/fluid intake benefits:
 1. Delays dehydration
 2. Increases sweating during exercise
 3. Diminishes the rise in core temperature
The goal for fluid intake during exercise is to 
prevent fluid balance changes greater than 2  % 
body weight. As mentioned earlier, this level of 
dehydration is associated with reduced physical 
and cognitive performance as well as altered car -
diovascular function and heat tolerance. Many 
factors play into the absolute amounts of water 
lost during exercise including environmental 
conditions, age, health status, heat acclimatiza -
tion, and genetics among others. In planning the 
amounts of fluid replacement required during 
exercise, typical body weight losses, as deter -
mined by the difference between pre- and post-  
body weight accounting for fluid intake, can be 
used to estimate sweat rates and, therefore, fluid 
needs.Forexample,an80-kgmanwhoexercises
for 1  h and weighs 79.5  kg after exercise and 
drinks 1  L of fluid has an approximate sweat rate, 
and fluid requirement, of 1.5  L/h to maintain 
euhydration assuming 1  L of fluid is equal to 
1 kg. Thirst is not a good indicator of fluid losses 
during exercise, and in the absence of forced fluid 
intake, individuals will progressively become 
more dehydrated, termed voluntary dehydration. 
Ad libitum fluid intake during exercise, however, 
can be influenced by beverage temperature, fla -
vor, and composition with cool, flavored bever -
ages containing carbohydrates and sodium 
resulting in greater amounts of fluid ingested. 
Last, the likelihood of making an error in the 
N.M. Johannsen and C.P. Earnest

111
amount of fluid needed to maintain euhydration 
is greater in events lasting several hours. In lon -
ger bouts of exercise, minor miscalculations in 
sweat rates can lead to significant dehydration or 
dilutional hyponatremia, a serious condition 
whereby plasma sodium is diluted by the ingested 
beverage [ 22].
6.5.3   After Exercise
As previously noted, pre-exercise fluid ingestion 
does not negate the responsibility of fluid replace -
ment during the bout of exercise itself. If an ath -
lete does not ingest fluids during an event such as 
a marathon, the benefits of hyperhydration before 
competition are soon negated, especially in a hot, 
humid climate, because it is not possible to match 
fluid loss (~2,000  mL/h) with fluid intake due to 
the slower gastric emptying rate (~1,000  mL/h) 
of the stomach. Thus, pre-exercise hyperhydra -
tion becomes imperative prior to competition, 
especially long-endurance events.
The main goal after exercise is to completely 
replace fluid and electrolytes lost during exercise. 
Under normal time constraints to achieve euhy -
dration, normal meals and fluid intake is ade -
quate. However, if a shorter time period exists 
until the next exercise bout, larger volumes of 
water and electrolyte (sodium) intakes will be 
necessary. The additional sodium intakes can be 
achieved through sports beverages and salty 
snacks or by adding extra salt to your food. 
Depending on how short the duration between 
exercise bouts, individuals will need to ingest 
more than the level of dehydration at the end of 
the exercise (i.e., 150  % of the dehydration level) 
to account for future fluid losses in urine. Less 
fluid will be needed if greater amounts of sodium 
in the beverages or foods are ingested. In addition 
to reducing urinary water losses, the additional 
sodium intake will encourage fluid intake further 
improving the likelihood of achieving euhydra -
tion before the next exercise bout begins.
Perception of thirst is not a good indicator of 
overall fluid balance. Additional methods must 
be used to ensure adequate hydration. As noted 
earlier, body weight prior to and immediately after exercise can help assess water or fluid loss 
resulting from physical activity and/or exercise. 
Monitoring urine output is another method by 
which the hydration level can be visually moni -
tored, as a dark amber/yellow output with subse -
quent odor is a sign of dehydration whereas a 
normal euhydrated individual excretes lighter, 
clearer urine with little or no odor. Coaches and 
athletic trainers should encourage periodic water 
breaks during activity to prevent severe dehydra -
tion and subsequent loss of performance.
6.6  Electrolyte Replacement
It is generally accepted that a small increase in 
the amount of salt added to the food in the diet is 
adequate to replace any sodium lost through 
sweat. However, sodium balance can be disturbed 
by increased loses of large amounts of sweat or 
urine or ingesting large quantities of plain water 
in conjunction with a diet low in sodium. 
However, electrolytes and glucose found in sports 
drinks may hasten rehydration either through 
reducing urine losses or increasing fluid intake or 
both [ 23, 24]. Restoration of water and sodium 
balance in recovery occurs more rapidly by add -
ing moderate to high amounts of sodium (20–
60 mmol/L) to the rehydration drink or combining 
solid food with appropriate sodium content. 
Adding a small amount of potassium 
(2–5 mmol/L) may enhance water retention in the 
intracellular space and replace lost potassium 
during exercise [ 8, 20]. The American College of 
Sports Medicine (ACSM) also recommends that 
sports drinks contain 0.5–0.7  g of sodium per 
liter of fluid consumed during exercise lasting 
more than 1  h [20].
Restoring fluid balance in the body requires 
ingesting a fluid volume that exceeds the volume 
of fluid or water lost through sweat by approxi -
mately 25–50  % [25]. When a fluid is ingested, 
especially dilute beverages like water, the 
changes in blood plasma and gut distension cause 
the body to increase urine production and rapidly 
decrease the perception of thirst. Therefore, 
keeping a consistently higher plasma sodium 
concentration by adding sodium to ingested fluid 
6 Fluid Balance and  Hydration for  Human Performance

112
may sustain the thirst mechanism and promote 
retention of ingested fluids. Typical activity 
including exercise generally results in only mini -
mal loss of potassium (partially due to the 
potassium-  conserving mechanism in the kidneys), 
and at higher-intensity exercise levels, losses 
appear to have no consequences [ 26].Evenunder
extreme conditions, potassium needs can be met 
by ingesting foods that contain this mineral (e.g., 
bananas and potassium-rich citrus fruits).
6.7  Hyponatremia
Though hydration is important to exercise, exces -
sive fluid consumption during longer events (i.e., 
marathons and longer triathlons) under certain 
conditions can result in the serious medical illness 
hyponatremia, sometimes referred to as “water
intoxication” [ 22]. Hyponatremia occurs when 
low plasma sodium concentrations are created in 
the blood due to the over-ingestion of water. In 
essence, the blood becomes “dilute” of sodium,
thus creating an imbalance in osmotic pressure 
across the blood–brain barrier that initiates rapid 
water influx to the brain resulting in edema of 
brain tissue. In addition, the following symptoms, 
from mild to severe, can also be caused by this 
condition: confusion, headache, malaise, nausea, 
cramping, seizures, coma, pulmonary edema, car -
diac arrest, and death [ 22, 27, 28].
During exercise in hot, humid weather, the 
body produces a sweat rate of more than 1  L an 
hour, with a sweat sodium concentration ranging 
between 20 and 100 mEqL−1 [8]. In addition, 
repeatedly ingesting large volumes of plain water 
draws sodium from the extracellular fluid com -
partment into the unabsorbed intestinal water, 
further diluting serum sodium concentration [ 29, 
30]. Exercise compounds the problem because
urine production decreases during exercise due to 
a significantly reduced renal blood flow. This 
reduces the body’s ability to excrete excess water 
[8, 20]. Although hyponatremia is usually associ -
ated with competitive athletes, recreational par -
ticipants and occupational workers should be 
aware of the dangers of excessive hydration and 
should ensure that fluid intake does not exceed fluid loss [ 8, 20]. It has been recommended that 
the following steps be taken to prevent develop -
ment of hyponatremia when planning on compet -
ing in prolonged endurance activities [ 8, 20]:
1.Drink 400–600 mL(14–22 oz.) of fluid 2–3 h
before exercise.
 2. Drink 150–300  mL (5–10  oz.) of fluid about 
30 min before exercise.
 3. Drink no more than 1,000  mL/h (32  oz.) of 
plain water spread over 15-min intervals dur -
ing or after exercise.
4.Add a small amount of sodium (~ ¼–½ tsp.
per 32  oz.) to the ingested fluid. Water, carbo -
hydrate fuel, and electrolytes from manufac -
tured sports drinks can also be helpful.
 5. Do not restrict salt in the diet.
6.8  Glycerol
Glycerol is also known as glycerin and an alcohol 
compound that is more commonly found in 
the diet as a component of fat or triglycerides. 
It serves as a backbone onto which fatty acid 
molecules are attached and is marketed as an aid 
for “hyperhydrating” the body by increasing
blood volume and helping delay dehydration. 
Thus, glycerol may aid endurance athletes train -
ing or competing in hot, humid environments by 
hydrating tissues, increasing blood volume, and 
ultimately delaying fatigue and exhaustion asso -
ciated with dehydration. Glycerin dosages used 
in research are based on body weight or total 
body water and have been approximated to be 
1 g/kg body weight, with each gram diluted in 
about 20–25  mL of water or similar fluid [ 31].
Numerous studies support the theory that 
glycerol added to fluids increase tissue hydration 
compared with drinking fluid without glycerol 
added. Following glycerol consumption, the
heart rate and body core temperature are lower 
during exercise in the heat, suggesting an ergo -
genic effect. In endurance type of activities, a 
larger supply of stored water may lead to a delay 
in dehydration and exhaustion [ 32, 33]. More 
specifically, one study examined the effect of 
N.M. Johannsen and C.P. Earnest

113
glycerol (1  g/kg) supplementation on body 
 temperature while exercising on a treadmill (60  % 
VO 2max) at 42 °C at 25% relative humidity for
90 min 2.5  h after ingestion of the glycerol. 
Results showed that the urine volume decreased 
before exercise, the sweat rate increased, and the 
rectal temperature was lower during exercise 
[34]. These findings imply that glycerol ingestion 
was helpful in maintaining normal body tempera -
ture during exercise in the heat.
Another study reporting positive results gave 
11 fit adults glycerol (1.2  g/kg in a 26  mL/kg 
body weight solution) or a placebo (26  mg/kg 
body weight aspartame-flavored solution) 1  h 
prior to cycle exercise to exhaustion at 60  % of 
maximum workload (temperature 23.5–24.5 °C,
humidity 25–27  %). The heart rate for those tak -
ing glycerol was 2.8  bpm lower, and endurance 
time was 21  % longer [ 35]. In a follow-up study, 
these same researchers wanted to determine 
whether the same pre-exercise routine followed 
by a carbohydrate oral replacement solution dur -
ing exercise had any further effect. Once again, 
they found that when glycerol had been taken, the 
endurance time was 25  % longer [ 35].
It is important to note that not all studies show 
an ergogenic effect and that the benefits—
although noted for trained endurance athletes 
exercising in hot, humid environments—are not 
necessarily observed in athletes who are less well 
trained or are exercising in more temperate cli -
mates [ 33, 36]. These factors should be taken into 
account when considering glycerol supplements. 
Research is still unclear about its usefulness; and 
although it may have more value during exercise 
under extreme conditions of heat and humidity, 
the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) 
currently lists glycerol as a banned substance. It 
should also be noted that there are currently no 
tests for the use of supplemental glycerol.
6.9  Carbohydrate Drinks 
and  Exercise Performance
As previously noted, water by itself may not be 
enough to replace the deficit created from exces -
sive sweat rates during prolonged exercise. If fluid lost during exercise is to be completely 
restored, it cannot occur without replacing elec -
trolytes, particularly sodium [ 37]. In addition to 
sodium, carbohydrate added to fluid replacement 
solutions can enhance the intestinal absorption of 
water. It also helps maintain the blood glucose 
concentration and so delays dependence on mus -
cle glycogen stores, thereby delaying fatigue dur -
ing bouts of exercise lasting more than 1  h [38]. 
Aerobic exercise of high intensity for 1  h or more 
decreases liver glycogen by about 55  %, and a 
2-h strenuous workout almost completely 
depletes the glycogen content of the liver and 
active muscle fibers [ 1]. Activities such as foot -
ball, soccer, hockey, and other similar sports that 
have repeated supramaximal exercise with inter -
vals of rest can also result in substantial depletion 
of glycogen content of the liver and muscle [ 39]. 
Therefore, it seems prudent to include carbohy -
drate in drinks used to rehydrate because it is 
necessary to maintain blood glucose levels dur -
ing exercise that lasts more than an hour. 
Repeated ingestion of water and other fluids con -
taining carbohydrate and electrolytes can be an 
easy method by which to promote optimal per -
formance in athletes.
A carbohydrate concentration of 4–8 % seems
optimal in fluids ingested during exercise. It 
appears to help replace fluid lost through sweating, 
maintain blood glucose, and stave off fatigue. This 
percent solution also contributes to temperature 
regulation and fluid balance during extreme heat 
and humidity, as effective as plain water, and 
includes an extra 5 calories per minute for main -
taining glucose and glycogen levels [ 40, 41]. When 
it comes to the type of carbohydrate used in the 
solution, no significant difference exists between 
glucose, sucrose, and starch. However, the simple 
sugar fructose or high-fructose corn syrup should 
not be used because it has the potential to cause 
gastrointestinal distress. In addition, because of 
fructose’s low glycemic index,  absorption by the 
gut is slower and promotes less fluid uptake than 
an equivalent amount of glucose [ 1].
As noted, carbohydrate ingestion during pro -
longed activity of an hour or more provides a 
readily available energy nutrient for active mus -
cles during intense exercise. Studies have found 
6 Fluid Balance and  Hydration for  Human Performance

114
that consuming about 60  g of liquid or solid 
 carbohydrates each hour during exercise benefits 
high-intensity, long-duration aerobic exercise 
and repetitive short bouts of near-maximal effort 
[42–44]. Additionally, supplemental carbohy -
drate during extended intermittent supramaximal 
exercise may also provide the same benefits. To 
improve performance, it has been recommended 
that athletes should take in 25–30  g of carbohy -
drate (100–200  kcal) every half hour through 
either food or fluids. However, it is advised that 
carbohydrate drinks should be consumed every 
15 min due to gastric emptying concerns sur -
rounding hydration and simultaneous carbohy -
drate ingestion [ 8].
Additionally, it has been found that flavored 
beverages with added salt improve voluntary 
rehydration in children and young and older 
adults [24]. In a study examining after exercise, 
dehydration, and heat exposure, boys voluntarily 
consumed one of three beverages: (1) plain water, 
(2) grape-flavored water, or (3) grape-flavored 
water containing 6 % carbohydrate (14 g/8oz.)
and 18  mmol  L−1 NaCl (110  mg/8  oz.). The fla -
vored carbohydrate–electrolyte drink elicited the 
largest total voluntary fluid intake (1,157  mL), 
followed by the flavored drink (1,112  mL), with 
the smallest volume recorded for plain water 
(610 mL) [45, 46]. The final result is improved 
endurance at higher intensities or during intense 
intermittent exercise as well as increased sprint 
capacity toward the end of prolonged physical 
activity such as a marathon in which sustained 
high energy output and final sprint contribute 
immensely to the overall and perhaps winning 
performance.
6.10   Caffeine
It has been a long-held belief that the consump -
tion of caffeinated beverages will increase urine 
production and increase dehydration. Despite 
this widely held belief, there is no substantive 
research to support its recommendation. In 2000, 
Grandjean et  al. examined the effects of caffein -
ated, non-caffeinated, and noncaloric beverages 
on hydration in 18 participants receiving four counterbalanced treatments: (1) carbonated cola, 
(2) caffeinated cola, (3) non-caffeinated cola, and 
(4) coffee.Asmall subset ( n = 10) of participants 
water and carbonated, non-caffeinated, citrus soft 
drink during a fifth trial. Collectively, no signifi -
cant differences in the effect of various combina -
tions of beverages on hydration were noted [ 47].
Armstrong et  al. [48] extended this body of 
work by examining three levels of controlled caf -
feine consumption to examine whether caffeine 
affected fluid–electrolyte balance and renal func -
tion differently in 60 men receiving a placebo, 
3 mg/kg/day of caffeine, or 6  mg/kg/day of caf -
feine in capsular form. The results of this study 
showed no effect on body mass, urine osmolality, 
urinespecificgravity,urinecolor,24-hurinevol -
ume, 24-h Na+ and K+ excretion, 24-h creati -
nine, blood urea nitrogen, serum Na+ and K+, 
serum osmolality, hematocrit, and total plasma 
protein when measured at days 1, 3, 6, 9, and 11 
of treatment [ 48]. Similar and consistent effects 
are noted for hydration indices when caffeine is 
co-ingested with carbohydrates and electrolytes 
in a warm climate (28.5 °C/83.3°F) and under
more practical conditions such as during a soccer 
match or when examining a cycling time trial 
[49–51]. In point of fact, caffeine ingestion not 
only did not adversely affect hydration status in 
soccer and cycling but improved performance 
indices concurrent to each investigation [ 50, 51].
6.11   Creatine
While it is well established that creatine is a safe 
and reliable ergogenic aid, anecdotal and opinion-  
driven descent regarding the use of the supple -
ment still persists. One point of contention is the 
effects of creatine on hydration and heat toler -
ance. In the year 2000, the American College of 
Sports Medicine even issued an advice in a sports 
medicineroundtablethatathletes“…subjectedto
strenuous exercise and/or hot environments” 
avoid creatine [ 8, 20].
In brief, the underlying hypothesis surround -
ing the hydration/heat tolerance risk was posited 
as follows. Associated with creatine intake is an 
increase in skeletal muscle creatine concentration 
N.M. Johannsen and C.P. Earnest

115
[52, 53]. In turn, this leads to an increased 
 intracellular water concentration of fluid volume. 
During dehydration, plasma volume decreases, 
and if creatine were to hinder hydration, it would 
be due to creatine’s potential to hold fluid within 
the cell, thus leading to an increased regulatory 
burden and risk of heat-related illnesses. Research 
has evolved, however, to show that creatine may 
indeed decrease thermoregulatory strain, subse -
quently decreasing the risk of heat illness by 
releasing intracellular water from inside the cells 
to maintain hydration status [ 54–60].
Shortly after the release of the ACSM state -
ment, V olek et  al. [57] examined the use of cre -
atine administered at 0.3  g/kg during 35  min of 
exercise at 60–70  % of VO2max, followed by 
three 10-s sprints in the heat (37 °C/99°F, 80%
relative humidity) following 7 days of creatine 
supplementation. The authors reported no differ -
ences in rectal temperature response in either 
group and no significant changes in sodium, 
potassium, and creatinine excretion rates obtained 
from 24-h and exercise urine collections. The
creatine group did show a modest increase in 
aldosterone (263 % vs. 224 %).At the end of the
trial, peak power was greater in the creatine 
group for all three 10-s sprints, and no adverse 
symptoms, including muscle cramping during 
supplementation or exercise, were observed. 
Similar findings using a slightly different proto -
col have also been reported [ 60].
Kilduff et  al. [54] reported similar findings by 
examining endurance-trained males who per -
formed cycling tests to exhaustion at ~63  % of 
VO2max in the heat (~30 °C/86°F before and
after 7 days of creatine administered at 20  g/day 
in conjunction with 140 g/day of a glucose poly -
mer). The results of their study showed that cre -
atine increased intracellular water yet reduced 
work-related heart rate, rectal temperature, and 
sweat rates. While no changes were noted for 
time to exhaustion for all creatine-supplemented 
participants, a subset deemed to be “responders”
did show a significant (~4 min) improvement
[54]. Mendel et  al. [55] extended these findings 
showing a similar overall response to individuals 
doing a 40-min exercise at 55 % VO2max at
39°C/102°F supplementing with and without20 g/day coupled with the ingestion of a commer -
cial sports drink. Collectively, these effects 
appear to be due to an undisturbed distribution of 
total body water without corresponding distur -
bances between intra- and extracellular water 
components [ 56]. In a more intriguing research 
study, Watson et  al. [58] examined the effects of 
creatine supplementation in dehydrated men [ 58].
Using a double-blind, randomized, crossover 
design, Watson and colleagues had 12 men sup -
plemented with ~21  g of creatine for 7 days com -
pared to a placebo treatment. Unique to this 
study is that the investigators had participants 
lose 2  % of their body mass by exercising in 
33.5°C/92°F and then complete an 80-min heat
tolerance test by having participants perform 
four20-minsequencesof4-minrestfollowedby
3-min walk and 1-min high-intensity run three 
times and walking for 4 min. Their results
showed no differences between the creatine and 
placebo conditions for rectal temperature, ther -
moregulation, heart rate, mean arterial pressure, 
thirst perception, perceived thermal sensation, 
perceived exertion, urine osmolality, urine spe -
cific gravity, urine gravity, or symptomatology 
associated with Environmental Symptoms
Questionnaire [ 58]. Collectively, it appears that 
creatine has no adverse effect on hydration or 
exercise performance during strenuous exercise 
conditions at high ambient temperatures.
6.12   Coconut Water
Though little data exists, recent research has 
sought new ingredients that aid hydration. One 
such example is coconut water. Early research
on coconut water stems from medical reports 
in remote parts of the world where saline may 
be a premium and physicians may need alterna -
tive means for providing intravenous solutions 
for hydration needs [ 61, 62]. However, the cur -
rent literature related to exercise is sparse. One 
study by Kalman et  al. [63] examined the inges -
tion of (1) pure coconut water, (2) coconut water 
from concentrate, (3) a carbohydrate–electrolyte 
sports drink, or (4) bottled water after 60 min of
treadmill exercise. Overall, no differences were 
6 Fluid Balance and  Hydration for  Human Performance

116
noted between coconut water and a traditional 
carbohydrate–electrolyte sports drink for body 
mass loss or time to exhaustion. While partici -
pants in both treatment groups reported more 
bloated and experienced greater stomach upset 
versus the water group, no differences between 
treatment groups were otherwise noted [ 63].
6.13   Practical Applications
Along with the many aforementioned studies 
investigating fluid regulation and human perfor -
mance, the ACSM has made the following rec -
ommendations concerning fluid intake before, 
during, and after exercise [ 20, 64]:
 1. It is recommended that individuals consume a 
nutritionally balanced diet and drink adequate 
fluidsduringthe24-hperiodbeforeanevent—
especially during the period that includes the 
meal prior to exercise—to promote proper 
hydration before exercise or competition.
 2. It is recommended that individuals drink about 
500 mL (about 17  oz.) of fluid around 2  h before 
exercise to promote adequate hydration and 
allow time for excretion of excess ingested water.
 3. During exercise, athletes should start drinking 
early and at regular intervals in an attempt to 
consume fluids at a rate sufficient to replace 
all the water lost through sweating (i.e., body 
weight loss) or consume the maximum amount 
that can be tolerated.
4.It is recommended that the ingested fluids
should be cooler than ambient tempera -
ture—15–22 °C (59–72 °F)—and flavored to
enhance palatability and promote fluid 
replacement. Fluids should be readily avail -
able and served in containers that allow ade -
quate volumes to be ingested with minimum 
interruption of exercise.
 5. Addition of proper amounts of carbohydrates 
and/or electrolytes to a fluid replacement solu -
tion is recommended for exercise events last -
ing longer than 1  h because it does not 
significantly impair water delivery to the body 
and may enhance performance. During  exercise lasting less than 1  h, there is little 
 evidence of physiological or physical perfor -
mance differences after consuming a carbohy -
drate–electrolyte drink or plain water.
 6. During intense exercise lasting longer than 1  h, 
it is recommended that carbohydrates be 
ingested at a rate of 30–60  g/h to maintain oxi -
dation of carbohydrates and delay fatigue. This 
rate of carbohydrate intake can be achieved 
without compromising fluid delivery by drink -
ing solutions containing 4–8 % carbohydrate
(grams per 100  mL) at a rate of 600–1,200  mL/h. 
The carbohydrates can be sugars (glucose or 
sucrose) or starch (e.g., maltodextrin).
 7. Including sodium (0.5–0.7  g/L of water) in the 
rehydration solution ingested during exercise 
lasting longer than 1  h is recommended 
because it may enhance palatability, promote 
fluid retention, and possibly prevent hypona -
tremia (less than normal concentrations of 
sodium in the blood) in individuals who drink 
excessive quantities of fluid [ 39]. There is lit -
tle physiological basis for the presence of 
sodium in an oral rehydration solution for 
enhancing intestinal water absorption so long 
as sodium is sufficiently available from the 
previous meal.
6.14   ACSM Guidelines 
for Maintaining Fluid Levels 
During Practice 
and  Competition
 1. Weigh in without your clothes before and 
after exercise, especially during hot weather. 
For each pound of body weight lost during
exercise, drink two cups of fluid.
 2. Drink a rehydration beverage containing 
sodium to replenish lost body fluids quickly. 
The beverage should also contain 6–8  % glu -
cose or sucrose.
 3. Drink 17–20 fluid oz. of water or sports drink 
2–3 h before practice or competition.
4.Drink 7–10 fluid oz. of water or sports drink
10–20  min before the event.
N.M. Johannsen and C.P. Earnest

117
 5. Drink 7–10 fluid oz. of water or sports drink 
every 10–20  min during training and 
competition.
 6. Do not restrict fluids before or during the 
event [ 8, 65].
Acknowledgment  The editors of this 2nd edition publi -
cation wish to gratefully acknowledge the professional 
chapter contributions of Dr. Allyn Byars in the 1st edition 
of Nutritional Supplements for Sports and Exercise.
Without question, Dr. Byars’ dedicated involvement with 
this process has helped move our professional academy 
forward in the dynamic realm of sport nutrition.
References
1.McArdle WD, Katch FI, Katch VL. Exercise physiol -
ogy: energy, nutrition, and human performance. 7th ed. 
Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2007.
2.Sawka MN, Coyle EF. Influence of body water and
blood volume on thermoregulation and exercise per -
formance in the heat. Exerc Sport Sci Rev. 1999;27:  
167–218.
 3. V olpe SL.  Serving on the Institute of Medicine’s 
Dietary Reference Intake Panel for Electrolytes and
Water. JAm DietAssoc. 2004;104(12):1885–7.
4.PenningtonJAT. Bowes&Church’sfoodvaluesofpor -
tions commonly used. 19th ed. Philadelphia: Wolters 
Kluwer/Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins; 2010.
 5. Mellanby K.  Metabolic water and desiccation. Nature. 
1942;150:21.
 6. Sherman WM, Plyley MJ, Sharp RL, Van Handel PJ, 
McAllisterRM,FinkWJ,et al.Muscleglycogenstor -
age and its relationship with water. Int J Sports Med. 
1982;3(1):22–4.
7.Pivarnik JM, Leeds EM, Wilkerson JE. Effects of
endurance exercise on metabolic water production and 
plasmavolume.JApplPhysiol.1984;56(3):613–8.
 8. American College of Sports Medicine, Sawka MN, 
Burke LM, Eichner ER, Maughan RJ, Montain SJ,
et al. American College of Sports Medicine position 
stand.Exerciseandfluidreplacement.MedSciSports
Exerc. 2007;39(2):377–90.
 9. Richardson A, Watt P, Maxwell N.  Hydration and the 
physiological responses to acute normobaric hypoxia. 
Wilderness Environ Med. 2009;20(3):212–20.
10.Cheuvront SN, Carter 3rd R, Sawka MN. Fluid bal -
ance and endurance exercise performance. Curr 
Sports Med Rep. 2003;2(4):202–8.
11.Coyle EF, Montain SJ. Benefits of fluid replacement
with carbohydrate during exercise. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 1992;24(9 Suppl):S324–30.
 12. Shibasaki M, Kondo N, Crandall CG.  Non-  
thermoregulatory modulation of sweating in humans. 
Exerc Sport Sci Rev. 2003;31(1):34–9. 13. Gonzalez-Alonso J, Mora-Rodriguez R, Below PR, 
Coyle EF. Dehydration reduces cardiac output and
increases systemic and cutaneous vascular resistance 
duringexercise.JApplPhysiol.1995;79(5):1487–96.
14.Burge CM, Carey MF, Payne WR. Rowing perfor -
mance, fluid balance, and metabolic function follow -
ing dehydration and rehydration. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 1993;25(12):1358–64.
15.MaughanRJ,LeiperJB. Fluidreplacementrequirements
insoccer.JSportsSci.1994;12SpecNo:S29–34.
 16. Montain SJ, Smith SA, Mattot RP, Zientara GP, Jolesz 
FA, Sawka MN. Hypohydration effects on skeletal
muscle performance and metabolism: a 31P-MRS 
study. JAppl Physiol. 1998;84(6):1889–94.
 17. Sawka MN, Latzka WA, Matott RP, Montain 
SJ. Hydration effects on temperature regulation. Int J 
Sports Med. 1998;19 Suppl 2:S108–10.
18.JohannsenNM,LindE,KingDS,SharpRL. Effectof
preexercise electrolyte ingestion on fluid balance in 
men and women. Med Sci Sports Exerc.
2009;41(11):2017–25.
 19. Johannsen NM, Sullivan ZM, Warnke NR, Smiley-  
Oyen AL, King DS, Sharp RL. Effect of preexercise
soup ingestion on water intake and fluid balance dur -
ingexerciseintheheat.IntJSportNutrExercMetab.
2013;23(3):287–96.
 20. Casa DJ, Clarkson PM, Roberts WO.  American 
College of Sports Medicine roundtable on hydration 
and physical activity: consensus statements. Curr 
Sports Med Rep. 2005;4(3):115–27.
21.Costill DL, Cote R, Miller E, Miller T, Wynder
S. Water and electrolyte replacement during repeated 
days of work in the heat. Aviat Space Environ Med.
1975;46(6):795–800.
 22. Noakes T.  Hyponatremia in distance runners: fluid 
and sodium balance during exercise. Curr Sports Med 
Rep. 2002;1(4):197–207.
23.ShiX,SummersRW,SchedlHP,FlanaganSW,Chang
R, Gisolfi CV. Effects of carbohydrate type and
 concentration and solution osmolality on water absorp -
tion.MedSciSportsExerc.1995;27(12):1607–15.
24.WilkB,Bar-OrO. EffectofdrinkflavorandNaCLon
voluntary drinking and hydration in boys exercising in 
the heat. JAppl Physiol. 1996;80(4):1112–7.
 25. Sharp RL.  Role of sodium in fluid homeostasis with 
exercise. J Am Coll Nutr. 2006;25(3 Suppl):231S–9.
26.Wapnir RA, Sia MC, Fisher SE. Enhancement of
intestinal water absorption and sodium transport by 
glycerol in rats. J Appl Physiol. 1996;81(6):2523–7.
 27. Noakes TD.  The hyponatremia of exercise. Int J Sport 
Nutr. 1992;2(3):205–28.
 28. Noakes TD.  Hyponatremia during endurance running: 
a physiological and clinical interpretation. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 1992;24(4):403–5.
29.Speedy DB, Noakes TD, Schneider C. Exercise-
associated hyponatremia: a review. Emerg Med.
2001;13(1):17–27.
 30. Speedy DB, Rogers IR, Noakes TD, Wright S, 
Thompson JM, Campbell R, et al. Exercise-induced
6 Fluid Balance and  Hydration for  Human Performance

118
hyponatremia in ultradistance triathletes is caused by 
inappropriate fluid retention. Clin J Sport Med. 
2000;10(4):272–8.
 31. Williams MH.  The ergogenic edge. Champaign, IL: 
Human Kinetics; 1998.
 32. Jimenez C, Melin B, Koulmann N, Allevard AM, 
Launay JC, Savourey G.  Plasma volume changes dur -
ing and after acute variations of body hydration level 
in humans. Eur JAppl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1999;  
80(1):1–8.
 33. Wagner DR.  Hyperhydrating with glycerol: implica -
tions for athletic performance. J Am Diet Assoc. 
1999;99(2):207–12.
34.LyonsTP,RiedeselML,MeuliLE,ChickTW. Effects
of glycerol-induced hyperhydration prior to exercise 
in the heat on sweating and core temperature. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 1990;22(4):477–83.
 35. Montner P, Stark DM, Riedesel ML, Murata G, 
Robergs R, Timms M, et  al. Pre-exercise glycerol 
hydration improves cycling endurance time. Int J 
Sports Med. 1996;17(1):27–33.
36.Arnall DA, Goforth Jr HW. Failure to reduce body
water loss in cold-water immersion by glycerol inges -
tion. Undersea Hyperb Med. 1993;20(4):309–20.
37.CogganAR,CoyleEF. Carbohydrateingestionduring
prolonged exercise: effects on metabolism and perfor -
mance. Exerc Sport Sci Rev. 1991;19:1–40.
 38. Duchman SM, Ryan AJ, Schedl HP, Summers RW, 
Bleiler TL, Gisolfi CV .  Upper limit for intestinal 
absorption of a dilute glucose solution in men at rest. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1997;29(4):482–8.
39.BrooksGA,FaheyTD,BaldwinKM. Exercisephysi -
ology: human bioenergetics and its applications. 
New  York: McGraw Hill; 2005.
40.CoyleEF,CogganAR,HemmertMK,IvyJL. Muscle
glycogen utilization during prolonged strenuous 
 exercise when fed carbohydrate. J Appl Physiol. 
1986;61(1):165–72.
41.Shi X, Gisolfi CV. Fluid and carbohydrate replace -
ment during intermittent exercise. Sports Med. 
1998;25(3):157–72.
42.Jeukendrup A, Brouns F, Wagenmakers AJ, Saris
WH.  Carbohydrate-electrolyte feedings improve 1 h 
time trial cycling performance. Int J Sports Med. 
1997;18(2):125–9.
43.McConellG,KlootK,HargreavesM. Effectoftiming
of carbohydrate ingestion on endurance exercise per -
formance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1996;28(10):  
1300–4.
44.Mitchell JB, Costill DL, Houmard JA, Flynn MG,
Fink WJ, Beltz JD. Effects of carbohydrate ingestion
on gastric emptying and exercise performance. Med 
Sci Sports Exerc. 1988;20(2):110–5.
45.WongSH,SunFH. Effectofbeverageflavoronbody
hydration in Hong Kong Chinese children exercising 
in a hot environment. Pediatr Exerc Sci. 2014;26(2):  
177–86.
46.Johannsen NM, Buyckx M, Cocreham S, Earnest CP,
Kramer K, Lupo M, et al. Fluid balance and perfor -
mance are improved with Ad Libitum carbohydrate-  electrolyte beverage intake in the heat. Med Sci 
Sports. 2014;46(5 Suppl 1):483–4.
47.Grandjean AC, Reimers KJ, Bannick KE, Haven
MC. The effect of caffeinated, non-caffeinated, 
caloric and non-caloric beverages on hydration. J Am 
Coll Nutr. 2000;19(5):591–600.
48.Armstrong LE, Pumerantz AC, Roti MW, Judelson
DA, Watson G, Dias JC, et al. Fluid, electrolyte, and
renal indices of hydration during 11 days of controlled 
caffeine consumption. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab.
2005;15(3):252–65.
49.Millard-Stafford ML, Cureton KJ, Wingo JE, Trilk J,
Warren GL, Buyckx M.  Hydration during exercise in 
warm, humid conditions: effect of a caffeinated sports 
drink. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2007;17(2):  
163–77.
 50. Kingsley M, Penas-Ruiz C, Terry C, Russell 
M.Effects of carbohydrate-hydration strategies on
glucose metabolism, sprint performance and hydra -
tion during a soccer match simulation in recreational 
players. J Sci Med Sport. 2014;17(2):239–43.
51.HodgsonAB,RandellRK,JeukendrupAE. Themeta -
bolic and performance effects of caffeine compared to 
coffee during endurance exercise. PLoS One. 2013;  
8(4), e59561.
 52. Greenhaff PL, Casey A, Short AH, Harris R, 
Soderlund K, Hultman E. Influence of oral creatine
supplementation of muscle torque during repeated 
bouts of maximal voluntary exercise in man. Clin Sci. 
1993;84(5):565–71.
53.HarrisRC,SoderlundK,HultmanE. Elevationofcre -
atine in resting and exercised muscle of normal 
 subjects by creatine supplementation. Clin Sci. 
1992;83(3):367–74.
54.Kilduff LP, Georgiades E, James N, Minnion RH,
Mitchell M, Kingsmore D, et  al. The effects of cre -
atine supplementation on cardiovascular, metabolic, 
and thermoregulatory responses during exercise in the 
heat in endurance-trained humans. Int J Sport Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2004;14(4):443–60.
 55. Mendel RW, Blegen M, Cheatham C, Antonio J, 
ZiegenfussT. Effects of creatine on thermoregulatory
responses while exercising in the heat. Nutrition. 
2005;21(3):301–7.
56.Powers ME, Arnold BL, Weltman AL, Perrin DH,
Mistry D, Kahler DM, et  al. Creatine supplementation 
increases total body water without altering fluid distri -
bution. JAthlTrain. 2003;38(1):44–50.
57.Volek JS, Mazzetti SA, Farquhar WB, Barnes BR,
Gomez AL, Kraemer WJ.  Physiological responses to 
short-term exercise in the heat after creatine loading. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2001;33(7):1101–8.
58.Watson G, Casa DJ, Fiala KA, Hile A, Roti MW,
Healey JC, et  al. Creatine use and exercise heat toler -
ance in dehydrated men. J Athl Train. 2006;41(1):  
18–29.
59.Weiss BA, Powers ME. Creatine supplementation
does not impair the thermoregulatory response during 
a bout of exercise in the heat. J Sports Med Phys 
Fitness. 2006;46(4):555–63.
N.M. Johannsen and C.P. Earnest

119
 60. Wright GA, Grandjean PW, Pascoe DD.  The effects 
of creatine loading on thermoregulation and inter -
mittent sprint exercise performance in a hot humid 
environment. J Strength Cond Res. 2007;21(3):  
655–60.
61.Campbell-Falck D, Thomas T, Falck TM, Tutuo N,
Clem K.  The intravenous use of coconut water. Am J 
Emerg Med. 2000;18(1):108–11.
 62. Pummer S, Heil P, Maleck W, Petroianu G.  Influence 
of coconut water on hemostasis. Am J Emerg Med.
2001;19(4):287–9.63.Kalman DS, Feldman S, Krieger DR, Bloomer
RJ. Comparison of coconut water and a carbohydrate-  
electrolyte sport drink on measures of hydration and 
physical performance in exercise-trained men. J Int 
Soc Sports Nutr. 2012;9(1):1.
64.Rehrer NJ. The maintenance of fluid balance during
exercise. Int J Sports Med. 1994;15(3):122–5.
65.Casa DJ, Armstrong LE, Hillman SK, Montain SJ,
Reiff RV , Rich BS, et  al. National athletic trainers’ 
association position statement: fluid replacement for 
athletes. JAthlTrain. 2000;35(2):212–24.
6 Fluid Balance and  Hydration for  Human Performance

   Part III 
   Specialized Nutritional Strategies & 
Supplements        

123 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_7      Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, 
Nutrition, and Supplementation 
           Kyle     Levers       and     Kelley     Vargo     
    Abstract  
  One of the most common-sought after goals in athletic performance is 
attaining and maintaining muscle mass. From protein to creatine, arginine 
to human growth hormone, how is one to determine what really works, 
what is legitimate, and what is merely another gimmick in the supplement 
industry? Coupling the array of supplements with the unique performance 
needs of an athlete creates an inﬁ  nite amount of possible combinations. 
How do you know what is the right combination for successfully building 
the desired amount of muscle mass, maintaining an “optimal” body com-
position, and (during periods when additional body mass is desired) ensur-
ing lean mass is gained over fat mass? It is with great time, research, and 
a foundation laid for us by our predecessors in the ﬁ  eld of sports nutrition 
that we write this chapter on muscle building and optimizing lean body 
mass. By the end of this chapter you should be able to:
•    Describe the muscle building process  
•   Deﬁ  ne and determine net protein balance  
•   Describe how genetics play a role in muscle growth  
•   Know the recommended amounts of protein for gaining muscle  
•   Know the suggested protein: carbohydrate ratio for optimal muscle 
hypertrophy  
•   Deﬁ  ne nutrient timing and its role in muscle hypertrophy  
•   Explain the difference between whey, casein, egg, soy, and vegan pro-
tein supplements  
          K.   Levers ,  PhD, CSCS      ( *) 
      Texas A&M University ,  1700 Research Parkway , 
 Suite 2500, College Station ,  TX 77843-4253 ,  USA   
 e-mail: klevers@hlkn.tamu.edu    
    K.   Vargo ,  MS, MPH, CSCS, CISSN      
  George Washington University , 
  950 New Hampshire Ave NW ,  Washington , 
 DC   20052 ,  USA   
 e-mail: kmvﬁ  tness@gmail.com    7

124
•   Explain why and when supplementing with BCAAs are important to 
muscle growth  
•   Explain the major hormones that play a role in muscle growth  
•   Explain the potential beneﬁ  ts and drawbacks of anabolic steroids  
•   Deﬁ  ne the role of IGF in muscle growth  
•   Describe the creatine-phosphate system and why creatine is used for 
muscle hypertrophy  
•   Explain why supplements that promote the production of nitric oxide 
are used by athletes  
•   Explain how resistance training stimulates muscle hypertrophy     
  Keywords  
  Sports nutrition   •   Lean body mass   •   Muscle hypertrophy   •   Creatine   • 
  Protein supplements   •   Net protein balance   •   Nutrient timing   •   Anabolic   • 
  Anti-catabolic  
7.1         Introduction 
 Before any food, supplement, or substance is 
ingested for the sake of gaining muscle, a clear 
understanding of how a particular substance will 
inﬂ uence the growth of muscle mass is impor-
tant. The entire process of breaking down pro-
tein, transport of compounds, and utilization of 
amino acids is important for understanding why 
certain proteins are better than others at given 
times, why creatine is beneﬁ  cial for a speed 
power or strength athlete, and why nitric oxide 
doesn’t necessarily mean bigger muscles despite 
the creative marketing campaigns from the sup-
plement industry. This is the basic foundation of 
how the building blocks of muscle are processed 
in the body. In conjunction with amino acid utili-
zation, there are internal and external physiologi-
cal factors, which affect the production of muscle. 
A few of the most important ones are:
•    Net protein balance  
•   Genetics  
•   Diet: composition and timing  
•   Hormones  
•   Supplements  
•   Cellular level activity  
•   Resistance training     This chapter will provide evidence as well as 
reasoning to if, when, and why a nutritional sup-
plement should be consumed. Speciﬁ  cally, this 
chapter will focus on the use of nutrition and 
supplementation for muscle hypertrophy. In other 
words, although other substances are considered 
ergogenic aids, the ones discussed in this chapter 
are those related to muscle growth.  
7.2     Importance of Net Protein 
Balance 
 An increase in lean mass, more commonly 
referred to as muscle hypertrophy, is the founda-
tion upon which athletes and bodybuilders train 
to solidify gains in strength. The importance of 
gains in or maintenance of lean muscle mass can-
not be overstated in the athletic population; there-
fore, the metabolic basis for ﬂ  uctuations in 
muscle mass or  net protein balance   must be con-
sidered. Over the course of a 24 h period, all 
bodily proteins are cycling though periods of syn-
thesis and degradation. Particularly referring to 
exercise and sports performance, continuous 
changes in muscle mass are a result of a balance 
between synthesis and breakdown of muscle 
myoﬁ  brillar proteins [ 1 ]. Both actin and myosin 
serve as the primary myoﬁ  brillar proteins and the K. Levers and K. Vargo

125
main functional components of skeletal muscle 
contraction. Of the two proteins, myosin typically 
demonstrates the largest increases in size and 
therefore attracts the majority of attention when 
referencing changes in skeletal muscle mass at 
the cellular level. As a general principle, periods 
of positive net protein balance are highlighted by 
accrual of muscle protein, whereas periods of 
negative net protein balance are deﬁ  ned by mus-
cle protein losses [ 1 ]. As a result, the optimal cel-
lular environment for skeletal muscle hypertrophy 
occurs when an athlete spends more time in posi-
tive net protein balance. From an exercise and 
sports performance perspective, it is important to 
understand that both nutritional intake and resis-
tance training have a signiﬁ  cant inﬂ  uence on 
shifts in net protein balance. Without proper 
nutrition and exercise stimulus, net protein bal-
ance is negative and thus offsets signiﬁ  cant skel-
etal muscle hypertrophy [ 2 – 5 ]. 
 Nutritionally, daily changes in net protein bal-
ance are a result of alternations of fasting and 
feeding periods throughout the day. Protein bal-
ance is negative in the postabsorptive state, but 
feeding results in a shift to positive net protein 
balance, hence the importance of meal consump-
tion in athletes. Not only does the magnitude and 
duration of these positive and negative protein 
balance periods affect changes in skeletal muscle 
mass, particular macronutrient composition of 
these meals can also affect muscle protein synthe-
sis [ 1 ]. Greater amino acid availability and spe-
ciﬁ c combinations of amino acids, as addressed 
later in this chapter, promotes positive protein 
balance through stimulation of muscle protein 
synthesis [ 1 ,  6 ]. In the absence of nutrient intake 
and proper exercise stimulus, net protein balance 
will continue to remain negative, which adversely 
affects muscle mass development [ 2 – 5 ]. 
 Resistance training, acting as the most effec-
tive exercise stimulus for lean mass accrual, con-
tributes to an increase in skeletal muscle mass 
growth in combination with proper nutrient 
intake to reduce instances of negative net protein 
balance in the basal and postabsorptive states. 
Resistance training coupled with nutrient intake 
increases the magnitude and duration of positive 
net protein balance periods following feeding; however, resistance exercise alone will not pro-
mote an anabolic environment [ 1 ]. Resistance 
exercise also acts to reduce losses of amino acids 
during periods of fasting. Furthermore, when 
meals contain adequate protein, particularly 
whey isolates and hydrolysate protein, as sources 
of essential amino acids (EAAs) to maximally 
stimulate insulin secretion, muscle protein syn-
thesis is increased with simultaneous decreases 
in muscle protein breakdown to promote a sig-
niﬁ cant boost in positive protein balance and 
muscle protein growth [ 1 ]. Other speciﬁ  c nutri-
ents and supplements discussed later in this chap-
ter in conjunction with resistance training also 
contribute to shifting net protein balance in the 
positive direction. 
7.2.1     Application 
 As an athlete, gaining and maintaining lean mus-
cle mass is important for strength and perfor-
mance. To achieve an anabolic state, a positive 
net protein balance must be achieved through a 
combination of sound nutrition and resistance 
training. Therefore, the two most important steps 
an individual can take to elicit muscle gains are 
engaging in a consistent resistance training pro-
gram and consuming a diet promoting a positive 
net energy and protein balance.   
7.3     Role of Genes in Skeletal 
Muscle Hypertrophy 
 The previous section highlighted the importance of 
proper nutrition and supplementation in conjunc-
tion with resistance exercise and described their 
effects on the two primary components of net pro-
tein balance: synthesis and breakdown. Providing 
an optimal physiological environment with a posi-
tive net protein balance requires an understanding 
of nutrient and supplement effects on the biochem-
ical processes of muscle hypertrophy. 
 The functional unit of all bodily processes, 
including the growth of skeletal muscle, can be 
found at the level of genes. The expression of 
skeletal muscle proteins, speciﬁ  cally those of the 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

126
contractile unit, actin and myosin, is accom-
plished through associated genes to initiate mus-
cular growth. The original mechanism of action 
is the activation of muscle-speciﬁ  c genes that are 
then incorporated into messenger RNA (mRNA) 
with speciﬁ  c relation to proteins in muscle cells. 
The mRNA carrying the gene-speciﬁ  c informa-
tion about a certain protein is transcribed from the 
DNA of muscle-related gene and then translated 
into the formation of actual proteins. As previ-
ously stated, myosin is the myoﬁ  brillar protein 
that demonstrates the greatest increase in size 
during the process of training-induced muscle 
hypertrophy, but this growth process must be ﬁ  rst 
initiated with the activation of the myosin gene. 
The activation of the myosin gene initiates the 
formation and copying of genetic information to 
myosin mRNA which is responsible for the incor-
poration of individual amino acids into polypep-
tides. Upon formation of multiple polypeptides 
under the direction of the information coded on 
myosin mRNA, a new functional myosin protein 
is folded into the existing sarcomere matrix. This 
functional incorporation of the newly activated 
myosin protein deﬁ  nes the “expression” of the 
originally transcribed myosin gene. 
 A brief review of the biochemical transcription 
and translation process as it relates to formation 
of new protein is necessary because any nutri-
tional supplement that claims to help increase 
muscle mass must inﬂ  uence the aforementioned 
process in some capacity. For example, many 
muscle-building supplements claim to increase 
growth hormone. Increases in growth hormone 
have been linked to increases in insulin- like 
growth factor 1 (IGF-1), which inﬂ  uences greater 
activity of muscle-related cell-signaling pathways 
and ultimately higher rates of myosin gene tran-
scription and eventual expression. As an example, 
Hulmi et al. [ 7 ] examined the effects of high-qual-
ity whey protein intake, a common supplement 
used by individuals who perform resistance train-
ing, before and after resistance training workouts 
for 21 weeks. The researchers found increased 
cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (cdk2) gene expression 
in conjunction with attenuation of the normative 
exercise-induced decrease in myostatin and 
 myogenin mRNA expression [ 7 ]. This lower myostatin signaling in muscle ﬁ  bers coupled with 
an increase in cdk2 gene expression demonstrated 
greater muscle cell activation response with whey 
protein supplementation, ultimately providing a 
greater stimulus for muscle hypertrophy [ 7 ]. 
Other sports nutrition supplements affect the 
aforementioned biochemical process posttran-
scription as they claim to increase muscle mass by 
increasing the rate of amino acid incorporation 
into formal muscle protein under the guidance of 
mRNA. Still other supplements do not affect the 
transcription and translation processes at all, but 
rather claim to expedite nutrient delivery to work-
ing skeletal muscle. This expedited delivery of 
essential muscle fuel theoretically results in a 
more favorable environment of lean body mass 
development. The remainder of this chapter dis-
cusses the contributions of various sports nutri-
tion supplements to skeletal muscle hypertrophy 
through the mechanisms described above. 
7.3.1     Application 
 Further understanding the biological mechanism 
of muscle hypertrophy from a genetic level pro-
vides a rationale for sound nutrition and supple-
mentation as it pertains to inﬂ  uencing skeletal 
muscle DNA. By knowing the mechanism and 
physiological processes involved in muscle 
hypertrophy, one can discern the physiology 
behind supplement and nutrient claims. Couple 
this understanding with supportive research and 
much guesswork can be eliminated from the 
often inﬂ  ated supplement industry.   
7.4     Protein Supplements 
 Under fasting or limited energy and/or protein 
ingestion conditions, net protein balance will 
continue to remain negative. This is due to an 
increase in muscle protein breakdown as a result 
of the intense exercise bout despite a simultane-
ous stimulation of muscle protein synthesis [ 2 , 
 8 – 10 ]. In order to build lean body mass, it is nec-
essary to incorporate high-quality protein as a 
part of dietary consumption in addition to a K. Levers and K. Vargo

127
proper resistance training program. A quality 
protein source is necessary to optimize cellular 
and tissue repair. Protein is also used as a sub-
strate for numerous hormonal and metabolic 
activities during the recovery process. To main-
tain positive nitrogen (or protein) balance and an 
optimal environment for muscle hypertrophy, 
protein, as the only macronutrient containing 
nitrogen, should be ingested at every major meal 
as a part of a nutritionally sound whole-food diet. 
When protein is discussed as a supplement in 
addition to the normative dietary consumption, 
two primary questions arise: [ 1 ] What is the quan-
tity of protein necessary for an individual who 
regularly resistance trains as part of their exercise 
program? [ 2 ] What are the varieties of protein 
supplements available and which are the best 
sources of quality amino acids and proteins? 
7.4.1     Protein Requirements 
 Unlike many nutritional recommendations for 
the general public, the protein needs of athletes 
are unique. One of the most debated sports nutri-
tion topics is the protein requirement for athletes. 
It was initially recommended that athletes need 
not consume more than the 0.8–1.0 g/kg/day rec-
ommended daily allowance (RDA) for children, 
adolescents, and sedentary to lightly active adults 
[ 11 ,  12 ]. Countless clinical trials have indicated 
that individuals who are physically active or 
exercise regularly require protein intake above 
the RDA value of 0.8 g/kg/day irrespective of the 
exercise mode (e.g., interval, resistance, endur-
ance) [ 13 – 17 ] or level of ﬁ  tness (e.g., recre-
ational, moderately, or well trained) [ 18 – 20 ]. The 
debate surrounding this recommendation is torn 
by the safety and efﬁ  cacy of this quantity as it is 
based on individual differences in protein meta-
bolic capacity, the biological value of protein as a 
macronutrient, and nitrogen excretion. A vast 
amount of relatively recent research has conclu-
sively determined that athletes engaging in 
intense training regimens must consume approxi-
mately double the RDA of protein or approxi-
mately 1.2–2.2 g/kg/day to maintain sufﬁ  cient 
nitrogen balance [ 19 – 24 ]. More speciﬁ  cally, strength and power athletes working to gain lean 
muscle mass require high-quality protein intake 
quantities ranging from 1.5 to 2.0 g/kg/day, with 
special classes of high-level athletes sometimes 
beneﬁ  ting from daily protein intakes slightly 
exceeding 2.0 g/kg/day. While these daily guide-
lines are easy to follow for many athletes and 
have been supported by professionals in the ﬁ  eld, 
there has been a recent trend toward allotting pro-
tein intake on a meal-based system to ensure a 
more balanced approach throughout the day. This 
balanced meal-based approach may be advanta-
geous for athletes who have a variable practice 
and competition schedule as, theoretically, it pro-
vides better nitrogen/protein balance throughout 
the day. As previously discussed, if an athlete 
does not obtain enough dietary protein as part of 
their daily caloric intake, they will remain in a 
state of negative energy and protein balance 
which will increase protein catabolism, hinder 
recovery, and negatively affect performance [ 12 , 
 24 ,  25 ]. 
 A meal-based recommendation of approxi-
mately 20–25 g of high-quality protein per meal 
is a good starting point for most athletes to maxi-
mize skeletal muscle recovery and growth fol-
lowing a resistance exercise session [ 26 ]. Recent 
research analyzing postexercise muscle and albu-
min protein synthesis more speciﬁ  cally suggests 
that this type of protein synthesis is maximized 
after ingestion of 20 g high-quality protein. 
Further ingestion beyond 20 g of protein, signiﬁ  -
cantly increases the stimulation of whole-body 
leucine oxidation, thus deﬁ  ning an upper limit of 
amino acid incorporation into muscle and albu-
min protein [ 27 ]. While the 20–25 g of protein 
per meal is a good starting point, athletes and oth-
ers desiring to stimulate muscle growth would 
not beneﬁ  t beyond consumption of approxi-
mately 20 g of high-quality protein 5–6 times per 
day. Exceeding this maximal stimulus of muscle 
protein synthesis with excessive protein intake 
will lead to amino acid loss via oxidation and 
potentially risk dampening the synthesis stimulus 
toward lower levels of protein intake [ 27 ]. An 
individual needs analysis and assessment of per-
formance goals for each athlete is vital when 
determining the quantity and frequency of  protein 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

128
ingestion in order to facilitate an increase in lean 
body mass. 
 Other factors regarding protein supplementa-
tion must be considered as not all proteins are the 
same. The needs and goals of the athlete with 
respect to the accretion of lean mass are impor-
tant when determining protein needs as they dif-
fer according to source, quality, amino acid 
proﬁ le, methods employed to process or isolate 
the protein, rate of digestion and/or absorption, 
and metabolic activity [ 12 ]. Additional consider-
ations that are indirectly linked to athlete protein 
intake, performance, and lean mass gains are the 
total energy intake, carbohydrate intake, hydra-
tion status, phase of training program periodiza-
tion associated with the volume and intensity of 
resistance training, and timing of the protein 
source. A ﬁ  nal consideration is the use of other 
“ergogenic” substances that may affect overall 
energy efﬁ  ciency, such as anabolic steroids, ther-
mogenic agents, beta agonists, etc., to increase 
lean mass and performance. In conjunction with 
proper muscular facilitation during a resistance 
training program, high-quality protein intakes 
matching the recommended ranges will aid in the 
maintenance of a positive nitrogen balance envi-
ronment, optimizing muscle hypertrophy.  
7.4.2     Types of Protein Supplements 
 Power and resistance-trained athletes should plan 
to acquire the majority of daily protein require-
ments from high-quality whole-food sources; 
however, supplementation with protein products 
(e.g., protein powders, post-workout supple-
ments, protein/energy bars, and meal replace-
ment drinks) can be a safe and effective addition 
to attain daily protein intakes [ 12 ]. Food process-
ing techniques and technology have allowed the 
industry to grow signiﬁ  cantly with more reﬁ  ned 
high-quality amino acid and protein isolation 
from plant and animal sources. Protein supple-
mentation in the diet for resistance-trained indi-
viduals provides other beneﬁ  ts such as simplicity, 
convenience, longer shelf life, and more econom-
ical option compared to whole-food sources of 
high-quality protein.  The emphasis thus far has been on the  quantity 
of daily protein intake (1.2–2.2 g/kg/day), but not 
all proteins are created equal as many differ in 
quality, source, composition (i.e., amino acid 
proﬁ le), and method of isolation or processing. 
The differences exhibited between various pro-
tein supplements inﬂ  uence the pharmacokinetics, 
pharmacodynamics, and metabolic activity of the 
protein in addition to the bioavailability of pep-
tides and amino acids [ 12 ,  28 ]. There are 22 
amino acids that can be used as building blocks 
in the body to fuel or drive protein synthesis (see 
Table  7.1 ). Eight of these twenty-two amino 
acids are classiﬁ  ed as “essential” (or indispens-
able) because they must be obtained from food, 
as the body cannot synthesize them. An addi-
tional seven of these amino acids are considered 
“conditionally essential” as the body has difﬁ  -
culty synthesizing, which creates a dietary depen-
dence for these amino acids as well. The 
remaining seven amino acids can be readily syn-
thesized by the body, thus are classiﬁ  ed as 
“nonessential.”
   As previously mentioned, many protein sup-
plements differ in amino acid quantity and com-
position. Sources of protein are classiﬁ  ed based 
on the adequacy of their essential amino acid pro-
ﬁ le as  complete   or  incomplete   proteins. The 
source of the protein is also critical as differences 
exist between animal and plant sources. Animal 
protein sources contain all essential amino acids 
and are considered complete, whereas plant pro-
teins fail to contain all eight of the essential 
amino acids, leaving them as an incomplete pro-
tein resource. Evaluating the quality of the pro-   Table 7.1    Classiﬁ  cation of amino acids   
 Essential 
amino acids  Conditionally 
essential amino acids  Nonessential 
amino acids 
 Isoleucine  Arginine  Alanine 
 Leucine a   Cysteine (cystine)  Asparagine 
 Lysine  Glutamine  Aspartic acid 
 Methionine  Histidine  Citrulline 
 Phenylalanine  Proline  Glutamic acid 
 Threonine  Taurine  Glycine 
 Tryptophan  Tyrosine  Serine 
 Valine a  
   a Branched-chain amino acids  K. Levers and K. Vargo

129
tein, or the quantity of essential amino acids 
present, is a vital criterion when selecting the 
proper protein supplement. The most common 
high-quality and complete proteins found in 
many protein supplements are whey, casein, soy, 
and egg (ovalbumin). Recently, vegetarian and 
vegan protein supplements have been introduced 
to the supplement market. Details concerning 
each protein type will be discussed in the follow-
ing sections. 
7.4.2.1     Whey Protein 
 Out of the four most well-known high-quality 
and complete proteins in the sports nutrition mar-
ket, whey protein has become the industry and 
athlete favorite as it can be found in most muscle 
mass gainer and post-workout supplements. 
Derived from milk protein, whey protein com-
prises approximately 20 % of the total protein 
content in commercial bovine milk, which is sig-
niﬁ cantly less than the 50–90 % (depending on 
stage of lactation) whey fraction of total protein 
found in human milk [ 8 ,  29 – 31 ]. The high frac-
tion of whey protein in human milk is a key nutri-
tional component to child growth and 
development. Whey protein is commercially cat-
egorized and available as whey protein concen-
trate (70–80 % PRO), whey protein isolate (90 % 
PRO), or whey protein hydrolysate (90 % PRO). 
Differences between these three forms of whey 
protein are exhibited by the processing technique. 
The various methods of processing affect the 
concentration of whey protein subtypes and pep-
tides, which have been determined to help coun-
teract various health-related issues beyond 
enhancement of muscle hypertrophy. Other dif-
ferences among the forms of whey exist between 
fat and lactose content (remaining protein nutri-
ent composition), their ability to preserve gluta-
mine residues, and their amino acid proﬁ  les [ 8 , 
 24 ]. Elliot et al. demonstrated that the greater fat 
composition within the protein proﬁ  le may 
slightly facilitate a postexercise positive net pro-
tein balance and amino acid utilization [ 8 ,  32 ]. 
The most common form of whey protein used in 
sports nutrition supplements is whey protein con-
centrate (70 % and 80 % composition) due to its 
lower raw material pricing and postulated better ﬂ avor proﬁ  le characteristics compared to the 
other whey forms [ 8 ,  33 ]. 
 Whey tends to be digested quicker due to its 
sustained solubility and rapid emptying in the 
stomach, has better mixing characteristics, and is 
commonly considered a higher-quality protein 
compared other complete proteins [ 24 ,  34 ,  35 ]. 
The digestibility of whey contributes to its more 
rapid onset of amino acid appearance in the blood 
compared to casein, resulting in a greater stimu-
lation of muscle protein synthesis [ 24 ,  36 ,  37 ]. 
The higher quality of whey protein can be partly 
attributed to its dominance in branched-chain 
amino acid composition, particularly leucine 
[ 38 ]. A study conducted by Tipton and colleagues 
demonstrated peaks in arterial leucine concentra-
tion occurred sooner and with greater magnitude 
following postexercise whey supplementation 
compared to casein [ 34 ]. Additional research has 
demonstrated that the essential amino acid com-
position of whey alone, compared to whey pro-
tein as a whole, resulted in greater muscle protein 
balance among the latter at rest [ 8 ,  39 ]. This ﬁ  nd-
ing suggests a possible synergistic effect within 
the protein composition that feeds muscular 
hypertrophy. Despite research ﬁ  nding that a 
higher leucine content is essential to muscle pro-
tein synthesis stimulation with resistance training 
in older adults [ 40 ], the addition of leucine to 
whole proteins, such as whey, after bouts of resis-
tance exercise had little to no effect on protein 
synthesis and net nitrogen balance [ 8 ,  41 ,  42 ]. 
Similar to the frequent meal-based protein inges-
tion concept, consuming whey protein through-
out the day is effective for increasing protein 
synthesis compared to less frequent or erratic 
intakes of other protein types [ 43 ]. In conjunction 
with resistance training, supplementation with 
whey protein is beneﬁ  cial due to its rapid absorp-
tion, high branched-chain amino acid content, 
and health beneﬁ  ts when attempting lean muscle 
mass accretion.  
7.4.2.2     Casein Protein 
 Casein, a second type of milk protein, is sepa-
rated from whey protein within skim milk 
through resolubilizing and drying. Like whey, 
casein protein is found in commercial sports 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

130
nutrition supplements in several variations, such 
as potassium caseinate, sodium caseinate, cal-
cium caseinate, and casein hydrolysate [ 24 ]. 
Compared to whey, casein is a slower digesting 
protein. This fact is attributed to its coagulation 
within the stomach, which signiﬁ  cantly reduces 
rate of elimination and increases transit time 
through the stomach [ 34 ,  44 ]. Tipton et al. com-
pared the acute rate of arterial leucine appearance 
after post-resistance exercise protein ingestion of 
whey or casein [ 24 ,  34 ]. The results indicated 
that casein protein peaked later and to a lesser 
extent than whey protein, but the release of amino 
acids into the blood was sustained over a longer 
period of time with casein intake. A recent 
8-week training study conducted by Wilborn and 
colleagues also assessed post-resistance exercise 
consumption of either whey or casein protein and 
demonstrated an increase in total protein synthe-
sis, but no signiﬁ  cant difference was exhibited 
between the two groups [ 34 ,  45 ]. Not all studies 
have found this response. A post-resistance train-
ing study conducted by Cribb et al. found the 
whey supplementation group had signiﬁ  cantly 
greater gains in strength and lean body mass 
compared to the casein supplementation group 
after a 10-week training period [ 46 ]. Despite the 
inconclusive ﬁ  ndings in the literature, casein has 
been shown to improve protein synthesis when 
combined with resistance training, but unlike 
whey, casein also has been found to have anti- 
catabolic properties [ 47 ]. Casein is also a moder-
ately inexpensive form of protein, thus the reason 
why it is commonly found in many protein-based 
nutritional supplements. Due to the variation in 
casein formulation, a result of the speciﬁ  c resolu-
bilizing processing technique affecting the amino 
acid proﬁ  le, casein proteins are available in dif-
ferent grades based on protein quality (amino 
acid content), taste, and mixing characteristics 
[ 24 ,  28 ]. Perhaps the primary disadvantage to 
casein protein incorporation into a particular 
nutritional supplement is that it typically does not 
mix well in liquid, leaving clumps in suspension. 
 In summarizing the aforementioned protein 
research ﬁ  ndings, whey was found to maximally 
stimulate protein synthesis, while casein was dis-
covered to have anti-catabolic properties. Currently, most post-workout and lean mass gain 
supplements contain both proteins as part of their 
formulation. The rationale for this protein 
 combination was conﬁ  rmed by a 10-week resis-
tance training study performed by Kerksick et al. 
in which three different supplement formulations 
were compared. The combination of both whey 
and casein protein supplementation groups 
proved to be the most effective as they demon-
strated the most signiﬁ  cant gains in lean muscle 
mass [ 48 ]. An interesting practical application of 
this study is to simply mix whey protein in bovine 
milk (which is ~80 % casein).  
7.4.2.3     Soy Protein 
 Soy protein is the only plant-based protein source 
that is considered high quality due to its high 
concentration of all essential amino acids except 
methionine. Soy protein is made from legume 
and soybeans through a water- or water-ethanol- 
based extraction method [ 49 ]. Variations in this 
extraction method produce a soy protein concen-
trate or isolate. When compared to the consump-
tion of milk proteins, soy protein was able to 
induce signiﬁ  cant changes in muscle protein syn-
thesis; however, greater net protein balance, frac-
tional synthesis rate (of mixed muscle proteins), 
and protein synthesis in skeletal muscle were 
found with milk protein ingestion postexercise 
[ 38 ,  50 ,  51 ]. There are currently several studies 
that have attempted to explain the difference in 
muscle protein synthesis response between milk 
and soy proteins. In general, they have concluded 
that milk protein tends to support peripheral (e.g., 
skeletal muscle) protein synthesis, while soy pro-
tein tends to support greater splanchnic protein 
synthesis [ 38 ,  52 ,  53 ]. 
 In addition to promoting muscle protein syn-
thesis, soy protein sources, such as soy milk, con-
tain the omega-3 fat alpha linolenic acid (ALA) 
and isoﬂ  avone phytoestrogens. Soy milk also has 
less saturated fat and cholesterol and tends to have 
a lower glycemic index than most bovine milk 
products [ 24 ]. Isoﬂ  avone phytoestrogens have 
been reported to stimulate estrogen receptors and 
promote nonhormonal estrogen-like properties 
that could beneﬁ  t (pre- and post-) menopausal 
women [ 24 ,  54 ,  55 ]. More speciﬁ  cally, soy K. Levers and K. Vargo

131
 protein isolate contains a myriad of antioxidant 
compounds such as isoﬂ  avones, saponins, and 
copper, a primary component of many antioxidant 
enzymes [ 51 ]. Recent research has attributed soy 
isoﬂ avones to improving markers of bone (i.e., 
protection against osteoporosis), lipid, and thyroid 
function while decreasing the risk of heart disease 
and promoting a chemo- protective effect against 
breast and prostate cancer [ 24 ,  56 ]. Despite the 
purported beneﬁ  cial health effects of soy protein 
with no long-term side effects, there are several 
studies that question the long-term impact of 
diets containing high levels of phytoestrogens. 
Additional research needs to be conducted on sev-
eral soy- related questions, such as whether soy 
protein ingestion effects hormone levels or semen 
quality in men, as it could potentially have a large 
impact on athletic performance [ 24 ]. 
 The variable effects that soy protein supple-
mentation can have on different genders leads to 
a difference in supplementation recommendation 
values. With the nonhormonal estrogen-like 
properties, soy protein can be an excellent source 
of high-quality protein for both pre- and post-
menopausal female athletes. For male athletes, 
the lower muscle protein fractional synthesis rate 
of soy protein compared to whey may be less 
advantageous, but for female athletes, the lower 
saturated fat and cholesterol content may help to 
promote more nutrient-dense caloric intake when 
used as a supplement. Finally, due to the lower 
glycemic index of soy protein and its moderate 
rate of digestion between casein and whey, sup-
plementation may be beneﬁ  cial in isolated situa-
tions or in conjunction with the primary milk 
proteins.  
7.4.2.4     Egg Protein 
 Egg protein has been a staple protein source in 
many nutritional supplements as it historically 
was considered the best source of protein due to 
its wide consumer acceptance as a high-quality 
protein. When processed for incorporation into a 
nutritional supplement, egg protein is extracted 
from chicken egg whites (ovalbumin) or whole 
eggs using a range of different techniques [ 24 , 
 49 ]. Unlike casein protein, egg protein is highly 
miscible and able to form a homogeneous mix-ture when incorporated in liquids. Despite their 
decrease in popularity and regular incorporation 
into newer nutritional supplements due to its 
higher cost compared to other protein forms, egg 
white protein is labeled as the reference standard 
for comparing protein quality [ 24 ,  57 ]. Due to 
higher cost and poor taste of egg protein supple-
ments, most athletes choose other sources of 
complete protein. Several studies compared post- 
resistance training effects of egg protein supple-
mentation to casein and whey sources and 
concluded that there is no difference between the 
three forms of complete protein when assessing 
promotion of nitrogen retention. Due to its effec-
tiveness and place as a reference standard, egg 
protein or ovalbumin is still incorporated in some 
meal replacement and protein power supplements 
on a minor scale [ 49 ].  
7.4.2.5     Vegetarian and Vegan Protein 
Sources 
 Evidence from the Academy of Nutrition and 
Dietetics (AND) and other associated research 
conﬁ rms the nutritional needs of athletes can be 
met through consumption of a vegetarian or 
vegan diet. Despite this, doubt continues to linger 
among many nutrition professionals who counsel 
athletes. There are a growing number of athletes, 
especially endurance athletes, who have adopted 
a vegetarian- or vegan-based diet to help control 
body weight and meet increased carbohydrate 
needs [ 58 ,  59 ]. In comparison to omnivorous 
diets, vegetarian and vegan diets contain signiﬁ  -
cantly higher quantities of complex carbohy-
drates, ﬁ  ber, antioxidants, and phytochemicals. 
The high ratio of carbohydrates can help many 
athletes, particularly endurance or strength- 
endurance athletes, maintain adequate levels of 
glycogen storage in the muscle and liver as 
required fuel for muscular contraction [ 60 ]. 
Maintenance of adequate glycogen stores sus-
tains a physiological state of higher energy avail-
ability, directly correlated to an environment 
primed for muscle mass development. Secondly, 
the inclusion of various antioxidants (e.g., vita-
min C/ascorbic acid, vitamin E/tocopherol, and 
β-carotene) and phytochemicals from plant 
sources may positively affect athletic perfor-7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

132
mance, recovery, and lean mass accretion by 
mitigating exercise-induced oxidative stress [ 59 ]. 
The potential to optimize glycogen stores from 
increased carbohydrate intake has been shown to 
have negative effects on the bioavailability of 
key nutrients such as iron, zinc, and other trace 
minerals among the general active population. 
The impaired nutrient bioavailability, particu-
larly suboptimal iron levels, has been speculated 
in the vegetarian/vegan athletic population, but 
no connection to impaired muscle mass growth 
has been demonstrated [ 60 ,  61 ]. 
 All essential and nonessential amino acids can 
be obtained from a diet strictly fueled from plant 
sources if enough calories are consumed to match 
the activity level of the individual and if a variety 
of sources are used to obtain those calories [ 59 , 
 60 ,  62 ,  63 ]. Vegetarians (lacto-ovo-vegetarians) 
are more likely to meet the necessary protein 
macronutrient requirements due to their con-
sumption of dairy products, eggs, and comple-
mentary mixtures of high-quality plant proteins 
(e.g., soy protein) resulting in approximately 
12–14 % of their calories coming from protein 
[ 59 ]. Quality protein consumption can be a large 
concern for vegans (those who avoid consump-
tion of all animal proteins) because plant-based 
proteins, making up only 10–12 % of caloric con-
sumption, can be limiting in quantity of lysine, 
threonine, tryptophan, and/or sulfur-containing 
amino acids (methionine, cysteine, homocyste-
ine, and taurine) as seen in Table  7.2  [ 59 ,  61 ]. 
Vegetarian athletes now have a wide variety of 
high-quality protein food and beverage sources (egg, dairy, and soy) containing all of the  essential 
amino acids necessary to drive protein synthesis. 
However, vegan athletes may need to consider 
speciﬁ  c meal planning strategies that focus on 
plant sources rich in protein such as legumes, 
nuts and seeds, rice, and other whole- grain prod-
ucts in order to achieve proper nitrogen balance 
during periods of muscular growth [ 59 ,  62 ]. 
Additionally, well-planned vegan diets for com-
petitive athletes may meet or exceed the RDA for 
protein in general, but may be deﬁ  cient in lysine 
as most plant protein sources do not provide suf-
ﬁ cient quantities [ 61 ]. As previously mentioned, 
recent protein and amino acid research demon-
strates that leucine is the primary driving force 
behind the positive effects of branched-chain 
amino acids in the development of new muscle. 
In order to provide sufﬁ  cient quantities of leucine 
in the diet of vegan athletes, a focus must be 
directed toward overall higher protein quantity of 
which a greater percentage should be provided 
by beans and legumes [ 61 ].
   Compared to omnivores, vegetarians and veg-
ans typically have a lower creatine pool, measured 
by signiﬁ  cant decreases in total and free creatine 
concentration in addition to muscle creatine con-
tent [ 60 ,  61 ]. This decreased creatine pool demon-
strates that the diminished dietary creatine intake 
from meat sources is not completely offset by 
increases in endogenous creatine production 
within vegetarian and vegan athletes [ 60 ,  64 ]. 
Creatine supplementation has been shown to have 
large ergogenic effects in active and athletic popu-
lations, but with diminished endogenous creatine 
   Table 7.2    Essential amino acid content comparison of dietary protein sources   
 Protein source  Lysine  Threonine  Tryptophan  Methionine/cysteine a  
 EAA (mg/g protein) 
 Beef  83  44  11  37 
 Egg  70  49  16  56 
 Wheat  28  30  13  39 
 Brown rice  38  37  13  35 
 Almonds  29  32  15  25 
 Chickpeas  67  37  10  28 
 Soybeans  63  41  14  28 
  Table adapted from Barr et al. [ 61 ] 
  EAA  essential amino acid 
  a Sulfur-containing amino acids incorporated into proteins (excludes homocysteine and taurine)  K. Levers and K. Vargo

133
stores, vegetarian and vegan athletes experience 
greater metabolic, performance, and body compo-
sition changes through increases in lean mass 
when supplementing with creatine [ 59 ]. Refer to 
Sect.  6  of this chapter for additional information 
concerning creatine supplementation.   
7.4.3     Application 
 High-quality protein through whole foods and 
supplements, in adequate quantities addressing 
the intensity, volume, and duration of exercise, is 
the foundation for muscle hypertrophy. All four 
sources of high-quality protein, whey, casein, 
soy, and egg, are viable options for inducing lean 
muscle mass gains in strength-power athletes. 
While soy and egg proteins are less common pro-
tein sources found in today’s muscle-building 
supplements, they are great options for lactose- 
intolerant athletes. In order to maximize the ben-
eﬁ ts of protein ingestion on lean muscle gains, 
both quantity and quality have to be considered 
in addition to proper protein nutrient timing.   
7.5     Dietary Considerations 
and Nutrient Timing 
 It has been well established that protein ingestion 
is necessary for muscle hypertrophy. To optimize 
muscle hypertrophy, carbohydrate-protein com-
binations and nutrient timing strategies can be 
used. In the absence of nutrient intake pre- and 
postexercise, the body will remain in a negative 
net protein balance state, therefore stimulating 
muscle catabolism [ 2 ,  4 ,  65 ]. This section will 
explain the importance of the carbohydrate- 
protein combination for muscle hypertrophy, 
nutrient timing optimization, as well as what hap-
pens when nutrition is neglected. 
7.5.1     The Absence of Nutrition 
 As stated previously, the net protein balance 
determines whether muscle protein synthesis or 
muscle protein breakdown will occur. To achieve (net) muscle protein synthesis, a positive protein 
balance must occur in conjunction with a stimu-
lus for muscle growth. Although resistance train-
ing stimulates muscle protein synthesis, that 
alone is not enough to supersede muscle protein 
breakdown [ 66 ]. 
 To highlight this concept, a study was con-
ducted evaluating rates of protein synthesis and 
breakdown at rest and 3 h following a weight 
training session among fasted individuals [ 2 ]. 
The individuals in the exercise group had a 108 % 
increase in protein synthesis and 51 % increase in 
muscle protein breakdown. Despite this increase 
in synthesis, it was not enough to result in an ana-
bolic response. Similar studies have demon-
strated the same results: increase muscle protein 
breakdown and synthesis rates but no net ana-
bolic response [ 3 ,  4 ]. This research exempliﬁ  es 
the importance of nutrition for anabolic responses 
to occur.  
7.5.2     Insulin, Amino Acids, 
and Protein Synthesis 
 As mentioned previously, weight training exer-
cise provides a stimulus for muscle growth 
through muscle-speciﬁ  c genes. In conjunction 
with these genes being transcribed into the 
mRNA, other factors must be in place in order to 
convert this mRNA into skeletal muscle protein. 
Insulin and amino acids are fundamental 
 compounds for protein synthesis. Bolster and 
colleagues [ 67 ] stated, “Without question, inves-
tigating the singular role of amino acids or insu-
lin in promoting changes in skeletal muscle 
protein synthesis with resistance exercise is cru-
cial to elucidating mechanisms regulating muscle 
hypertrophy.” 
 Insulin plays an important role in muscle pro-
tein synthesis, speciﬁ  cally following a resistance 
training bout [ 68 ,  69 ]. Following exercise, insulin 
is instrumental for amino acid incorporation into 
skeletal muscle [ 70 – 72 ] as well as minimizing 
the breakdown of muscle protein [ 71 ,  73 – 75 ]. 
Much of the early carbohydrate and protein 
research on the effects of insulin secretion 
 demonstrated that the ingestion of carbohydrates 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

134
surrounding an exercise session will increase 
plasma insulin levels, but an increase will also be 
seen in response to the infusion of free amino 
acids [ 76 – 78 ]. More recent literature has shown a 
signiﬁ  cant insulin response to the ingestion of a 
carbohydrate, whole protein, and free amino acid 
(e.g., leucine and phenylalanine) mixture when 
compared to only carbohydrate at rest and postex-
ercise in trained athletes [ 78 – 80 ]. As a safety dis-
claimer, insulin levels should be altered through 
diet, as insulin injections can lead to adverse 
effects. Simply consuming carbohydrates to ele-
vate insulin levels will not result in an anabolic 
response, as amino acids must be present in the 
blood stream for muscle protein synthesis to occur 
[ 81 ]. This concept supports the importance of 
nutrient timing and combinations of protein and 
carbohydrate supplementation surrounding an 
exercise bout, which are discussed in detail below. 
 As stated previously, amino acids are the fun-
damental building blocks for muscle tissue. Thus, 
the availability of essential amino acids (EAAs) 
following a workout is a determining factor in 
creating a positive net protein balance for muscle 
protein synthesis. While some researchers have 
demonstrated that amino acid ingestion follow-
ing a workout shifts net protein balance from 
negative to positive [ 9 ], consuming  only  amino 
acids may not provide the optimal nutrition for 
maximal gains in lean mass. Therefore, a combi-
nation of essential amino acids or high-quality 
protein and carbohydrates may be necessary to 
initiate maximal muscle protein synthesis fol-
lowing resistance exercise and is further investi-
gated below.  
7.5.3     Importance of Combined 
Carbohydrate-Protein 
Supplements 
 By consuming both carbohydrate and protein 
before and after a resistance training bout, mus-
cle protein breakdown is attenuated and muscle 
protein synthesis is stimulated [ 65 ,  82 ,  83 ]. The 
complimentary roles these two macronutrients 
play on protein kinetics may help optimize mus-
cle hypertrophy. The primary role of  carbohydrate is to replenish glycogen stores, prevent muscle 
protein breakdown, and increase insulin levels 
[ 84 – 86 ]. One study provided subjects an amino 
acid-carbohydrate drink or a placebo after a resis-
tance training bout and found there was an ana-
bolic response at 1 and 3 h postexercise as 
measured by increased muscle protein synthesis 
and arterial phenylalanine and insulin concentra-
tions among the treatment group [ 87 ]. 
 Studies that have shown anywhere from 20 to 
40 g of protein postexercise optimally stimulate 
muscle protein synthesis, the latter being more 
beneﬁ  cial for older adults [ 86 ,  88 ,  89 ]. According 
to the International Society of Sports Nutrition, 
the recommended 0.15–0.25 g/kg/day addition 
of protein during all instances of carbohydrate 
intake helps to maximize muscle protein synthe-
sis and glycogen restoration [ 12 ]. The addition 
of a carbohydrate source when supplementing 
with protein post-workout may be particularly 
necessary following sessions highlighting goals 
associated with endurance or muscular strength-
endurance training where expedited glycogen 
restoration is critical. The most success with 
carbohydrate-protein combination supplementa-
tion in terms of maximizing muscle protein syn-
thesis is the addition of carbohydrates to a source 
of EAAs [ 87 ]. However, more recent nutrient 
timing research with respect to carbohydrate 
dosage in the early recovery period following a 
bout of resistance training has found that the 
addition of carbohydrates post-workout may not 
be necessary to further increase whole-body pro-
tein balance when proper protein supplementa-
tion is provided to strength or hypertrophy 
athletes [ 90 ]. These latest ﬁ  ndings highlight that 
the minimum requirements for sustaining gains 
in muscle mass as a result of resistance training 
are to supplement with high-quality protein pre- 
and postexercise along with ensuring that overall 
daily macronutrient needs are addressed through-
out the course of a training day, particularly car-
bohydrates. Speciﬁ  c training goals, necessary 
energy systems for performance, and recovery 
timelines should be considered when determin-
ing the proper supplementation combination of 
carbohydrates and protein to optimize lean mass 
accrual.  K. Levers and K. Vargo

135
7.5.4     Nutrient Timing 
 The central premise of nutrient timing is to time 
the ingestion of protein and carbohydrate to facil-
itate the greatest muscle protein synthesis. 
Despite muscle’s ability to ingest protein during 
the 24 h following a resistance training session 
[ 91 ], the ability to maximize muscle protein syn-
thesis and minimize muscle protein breakdown 
may rely on the timing of nutrition. As science 
continues to evolve, The International Society of 
Sports Nutrition acknowledges the difﬁ  culty in 
speciﬁ  c recommendations, as the research regard-
ing nutrient timing is inconsistent and varies 
between individuals [ 84 ]. This section explores 
the current literature relating to nutrient timing. 
7.5.4.1     Before a Workout 
 Research suggests that ingesting protein before and 
after exercise can increase muscle protein synthe-
sis [ 32 ,  92 – 96 ]. One study compared carbohydrate- 
amino acid (EAA) consumption before versus after 
a workout and found that consuming before a 
workout resulted in greater muscle protein synthe-
sis among the pre-workout group [ 97 ]. Tipton and 
colleagues were interested in comparing net pro-
tein balance when ingesting whey protein before or 
after a workout. They discovered that amino acid 
availability increased equally pre- and post-work-
out, unlike a previous study that found a signiﬁ  cant 
increase in muscle protein synthesis with pre-
workout carbohydrate- EAA supplementation [ 98 ]. 
More research is needed in this area; however, the 
current evidence reﬂ  ects positive outcomes from 
pre-workout nutrition.  
7.5.4.2     After a Workout 
 The anabolic window, the immediate time period 
after a resistance training bout, has been thought 
to be a critical period for preventing protein 
breakdown, optimizing protein synthesis and 
muscle hypertrophy, and replenishing glycogen 
stores via proper nutrition. This section aims to 
explore the validity of these claims. 
 By consuming a meal after a workout, muscle 
protein breakdown is slowed down due to the rise 
in insulin levels [ 6 ,  84 ,  99 ]. The combination of 
both carbohydrate and protein has the potential to elevate insulin greater than just carbohydrates 
[ 84 ,  100 ], but as mentioned previously, strength 
and hypertrophy athletes with goals to maximize 
muscle gain should shift their carbohydrate focus 
away from a speciﬁ  c post-workout timeline and 
more toward meeting an overall daily macronu-
trient need for carbohydrates [ 90 ]. However, 
although theoretically sound, this idea has yet to 
be demonstrated in practice. Research has dem-
onstrated that the inﬂ  uence of elevated insulin on 
net protein balance reaches a plateau between 15 
and 30 mU/L, approximately three to four times 
the normal levels [ 101 ,  102 ]. A study conducted 
by Power and colleagues [ 103 ] demonstrated 
lasting peak insulin concentration, needed for 
muscle protein balance, for up to 2 h after con-
suming 45 g of whey protein isolate. Therefore, 
consuming food immediately postexercise might 
not be as critical as once thought, unless a pre- 
workout meal is absent. 
 Previously, for maximal muscle protein syn-
thesis, it was crucial to include free amino acids 
(e.g., EAAs or BCAAs) and/or whole protein 
sources immediately post-workout [ 9 ,  82 ,  84 ]. To 
further emphasize the importance of post- 
workout nutrition, a study demonstrated the 
effects of consuming 10 g of protein, 8 g of car-
bohydrate, and 3 g of fat immediately after exer-
cise compared to consumption of the same 
macronutrient composition 3 h after exercise. 
There was a 12 % increase in protein synthesis 
for the group that consumed the meal immedi-
ately following the workout [ 104 ]. However, 
studies have also demonstrated there are no tim-
ing effects with respect to the anabolic window. 
Rasmussen and colleagues [ 87 ] provided 6 g of 
essential amino acids with 35 g of carbohydrates 
to two groups: 1 h vs. 3 h postexercise. The 
results of the study concluded that there was no 
signiﬁ  cant difference between net leg amino acid 
concentrations. Similarly, a study conducted by 
Tipton and colleagues [ 97 ] demonstrated that 
consumption of an essential amino acid- 
carbohydrate supplement pre-exercise demon-
strated greater muscle protein synthesis when 
compared to postexercise consumption of the 
same supplement, although there have been 
 disputes on the validity of this study design [ 99 ]. 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

136
 Tipton also looked at the physiological 
response when consuming whey versus casein 
protein following a weight training session and 
found that both types of protein led to increases 
in muscle protein balance and synthesis [ 34 ]. The 
main difference found between the two types of 
protein was the amino acid response in the blood: 
a sustained response was elicited by casein, 
whereas a quick, initial response was elicited by 
whey. When considering the implications of sup-
plementing whey versus casein protein post- 
workout, ideally both types of protein should be 
provided together to optimize muscle protein bal-
ance over the course of the extended recovery 
period to help maximize muscle recovery, syn-
thesis, and regeneration. However, the training 
program and goals in addition to the training 
experience should be considered when choosing 
the optimal type of protein supplementation. 
 There is conﬂ  icting evidence in the literature 
regarding the effects of nutrient timing post- 
workout on muscle hypertrophy. A number of 
studies have been conducted: some demonstrating 
muscular hypertrophy, whereas others have shown 
no changes. For a more detailed description on the 
studies discussed above, please reference Table  7.3  
and/or the following text by Alan Argon and Brad 
Schoenfeld:  Nutrient Timing revisited: is there a 
post-exercise anabolic window?  
7.5.5         Application 
 The value of nutrient timing plays an important 
role when addressing muscle protein synthesis. 
Despite numerous studies in this area of research, 
there is no exact science to maximizing the 
effects of nutrient timing; rather, an individual 
approach may work best to promote optimal 
muscle hypertrophy. To optimize overall muscle 
mass gains, high-quality protein supplementation 
pre- and postexercise is critical along with ensur-
ing that overall daily macronutrient needs are 
addressed throughout the course of a training 
day, particularly carbohydrates. Therefore, a 
 general recommendation for nutrient timing 
around a workout is 0.4–0.5 g/kg of quality pro-
tein per lean body mass at both pre- and post-workout [ 27 ,  89 ,  105 ]. Ideally, no more than 
3–4 h should pass between pre- and post-workout 
meals, unless a larger meal is consumed, in which 
5–6 h is okay [ 84 ]. Realistically, nutrient timing 
and training timing will depend on the individual. 
In respect to carbohydrates around a workout, the 
verdict is still unclear as to if carbohydrates post- 
workout is necessary for optimizing muscle 
hypertrophy; rather the individual should empha-
size daily carbohydrate needs [ 84 ].   
7.6      Creatine 
 Creatine is one of the most extensively researched 
and popular nutrition supplements. Over the last 
two decades, creatine has been examined in over 
500 research studies that have assessed its viabil-
ity on muscle physiology, body composition, and/
or exercise performance in trained, healthy, and 
various diseased populations. The vast quantity of 
research conducted supports the claim that cre-
atine supplementation during training, particu-
larly high-intensity exercise, results in promotion 
of signiﬁ  cant strength, fat-free mass, and perfor-
mance improvements. The majority of scientiﬁ  c 
evidence available in the literature demonstrates 
that creatine monohydrate supplementation in ath-
letic, active, and clinical populations is a generally 
effective nutritional ergogenic aid when paired 
with various forms of exercise [ 106 ]. The laundry 
list of proven beneﬁ  ts as a result of creatine sup-
plementation coupled with solidiﬁ  ed safety, when 
the recommended dosages are consumed, cements 
the reason why creatine is considered the gold 
standard of nutritional supplements. 
7.6.1     Supplementation Protocols 
 Most of the research investigating the effects of 
creatine supplementation has utilized creatine 
monohydrate and employed a dosage pattern 
involving an initial loading phase followed by a 
maintenance phase. Incorporation of this loading 
phase, typically 0.3 g/kg/day (15–25 g/day) 
ingestion of creatine monohydrate for 5–7 days, 
is the most common method for increasing K. Levers and K. Vargo

137   Table 7.3    Current literature: effects of postexercise supplementation on muscle hypertrophy   
 Study  Subjects  Supplementation  Matched 
control 
group?  Instrument of 
measurement  Training protocol  Results 
 Esmark 
et al.  13 untrained 
elderly males  10 g milk/soy protein combo 
consumed either immediately or 
2 h postexercise  Yes  MRI and muscle 
biopsy  Progressive resistance training consisting 
of multiple sets of lat pulldown, leg press, 
and knee extension performed 3 days/week 
for 12 weeks  ↑↑ muscle CSA w/
immediate vs. 
delayed 
supplementation 
 Cribb and 
Hayes  23 young 
recreational 
male 
bodybuilders  1 g/kg of a supplement containing 
40 g whey isolate, 43 g glucose, 
and 7 g creatine monohydrate 
consumed either immediately 
pre- and postexercise or in the 
early morning and late evening  Yes  DEXA and 
muscle biopsy  Progressive resistance training consisting 
of exercise for the major muscle groups 
performed 3 days/week for 10 weeks  ↑↑ lean body mass 
↑↑ muscle CSA of 
type II ﬁ  bers both 
w/ immediate vs. 
delayed 
supplementation 
 Willoughby 
et al.  19 untrained 
young males  20 g protein or 20 g dextrose 
consumed 1 h pre- and 
postexercise  No  Hydrostatic 
weighing, muscle 
biopsy, surface 
measurements  Progressive resistance training consisting 
of 3 sets of 6–8 reps for all the major 
muscle groups performed 4 days/week for 
10 weeks  ↑↑ total body mass ↑↑ 
fat-free mass ↑↑ thigh 
mass all w/protein vs. 
carb supplementation 
 Hulmi et al.  31 untrained 
young males  15 g whey isolate or placebo 
consumed immediately pre- and 
postexercise  No  MRI and muscle 
biopsy  Progressive, periodized total body 
resistance training program consisting of 
2–5 sets of 5–20 reps performed 2 days/
week for 21 weeks  ↑↑ vastus lateralis 
CSA ↔ other 3 quad 
muscles CSA both 
w/ protein vs. placebo 
 Verdijk 
et al.  28 untrained 
elderly males  10 g casein hydrolysate or 
placebo consumed immediately 
pre- and postexercise  No  DEXA, CT, and 
muscle biopsy  Progressive resistance training consisting 
of multiple sets of lat pulldown, leg press, 
and knee extension performed 3 days/week 
for 12 weeks  ↔ muscle CSA no 
signiﬁ  cant difference 
between groups 
 Hoffman 
et al.  33 well-trained 
young males  Supplement containing 42 g 
protein (milk/collagen blend) and 
2 g carbohydrate consumed either 
immediately pre- and postexercise 
or in the early morning and late 
evening  Yes  DEXA  Progressive resistance training program 
consisting of 3–4 sets of 6–10 reps of 
multiple exercises for the entire body 
performed 4 days/week for 10 weeks  ↔ total body mass 
↔lean body mass no 
signiﬁ  cant differences 
between groups 
 Erskine 
et al.  33 untrained 
young males  20 g high-quality protein or 
placebo consumed immediately 
pre- and postexercise  No  MRI  4–6 sets of elbow ﬂ  exion performed 3 
days/week for 12 weeks  ↔ muscle CSA no 
signiﬁ  cant difference 
between groups 
  Table adapted from Aragon and Schoenfeld [ 84 ] 
  MRI  magnetic resonance imaging,  DEXA   dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry,  CT  computed tomography,  Reps   repetitions,  CSA  cross-sectional area  7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

138
 muscle creatine stores [ 24 ,  107 ]. Loading has 
also been described as consuming 5 g creatine 
monohydrate four times per day (20 g total) over 
the course of a 5–7-day period, an approach that 
increases muscle creatine and phosphocreatine 
levels by 10–40 % [ 24 ,  107 ,  108 ]. Recent studies 
demonstrate that the loading period may only 
need to last 2–3 days if taken in combination with 
carbohydrate and/or protein to maximize creatine 
stores [ 24 ,  109 – 111 ]. Many post-workout recov-
ery supplements on the market utilize a combina-
tion of creatine monohydrate, protein (whey, soy, 
and/or casein), and carbohydrate to help maxi-
mize muscle growth and development. Beyond 
the 2–7-day creatine loading/muscle creatine 
saturation period, the maintenance phase consists 
of a 3–5 g daily dose (or 0.03 g/kg) of creatine 
monohydrate for several weeks to a few months, 
matching the periodization pattern of the training 
program [ 107 ]. One of the alternative creatine 
loading methods, if the immediate maximization 
of creatine stores is not an important consider-
ation, is to ingest 3 g/day of creatine monohy-
drate for at least 28 days resulting in a linear 
muscle creatine increase. This progressive 
method has been proven to achieve similar intra-
muscular creatine and phosphocreatine levels as 
the aforementioned loading methods [ 24 ,  112 ]. 
 Rather than basing the quantity of creatine 
supplementation on total body mass or a speciﬁ  c 
quantity, Burke et al. [ 113 ] found successful pro-
motion of muscle growth and performance by 
basing creatine dosage on the subjects’ lean body 
mass, more speciﬁ  cally, ingesting creatine mono-
hydrate based on a dose of 0.1 g/kg of lean body 
mass per day. Other training studies observing 
the effects of creatine supplementation on perfor-
mance and changes in lean mass determined that 
both a high-dose protocol (15–25 g/day or 0.3 g/
kg/day, equivalent to a loading phase protocol) 
and a low-dose protocol (3–6 g/day) during train-
ing increased intramuscular creatine levels [ 24 ]. 
The dosing protocol should match the goals of 
the training program, the anaerobic nature of the 
sport or event, and/or the anabolic needs for lean 
mass development. Alternatively, during train-
ing, a cyclic loading protocol for creatine may be 
the most appropriate for athletes as it takes 4–6 weeks for elevated intramuscular creatine stores 
to return to baseline. This cyclic loading involves 
supplementation of 0.3 g/kg/day (15–25 g/day) 
creatine monohydrate for 3–4 weeks and then 
cycling off for 4–6 weeks to most effectively 
escalate and maintain elevated creatine stores 
over time [ 24 ,  114 ].  
7.6.2     Effects on Lean Body Mass 
 In addition to gains in performance, particularly 
strength, power, and anaerobic capacity, increases 
in body weight in the form of lean mass have 
been demonstrated in numerous studies when 
subjects supplement with creatine. During a typi-
cal creatine loading period (ﬁ  rst 5–7 days), the 
literature indicates that individuals will experi-
ence approximately 0.6–2.0 kg gains in lean body 
mass [ 24 ,  106 ,  109 ,  115 ,  116 ]. Research suggests 
that short-term creatine supplementation, per-
haps during a single training cycle, has proven to 
increase total body mass by approximately 0.7–
1.6 kg (~1.5–3.5 lb.) [ 117 ]. Speciﬁ  cally, a 28-day 
creatine supplementation (20 g/day) and resis-
tance training study conducted by Earnest et al. 
[ 116 ] found a 1.7 kg increase in total body mass 
of which 1.5 kg was fat-free mass [ 115 ]. Creatine 
supplementation over the course of a long-term 
resistance training program (approximately 6–8 
weeks) has revealed 2.8–3.2 kg (~7 lb.) increases 
in lean body mass [ 116 ,  118 ,  119 ]. Additional 
research indicates that 4–8 weeks of resistance 
training plus supplementation with creatine in 
combination with glucose, taurine, and electro-
lytes may promote greater gains in lean mass 
(~1.03–3.83 kg) when compared to creatine sup-
plementation alone [ 115 ,  120 ]. Similar gains in 
lean muscle mass with resistance training and 
creatine supplementation have been reported in 
women. A 10-week study conducted with females 
assessed resistance training and creatine supple-
mentation [ 121 ]. The females who ingested cre-
atine based on the aforementioned loading and 
maintenance protocol (20 g/day for 4 days fol-
lowed by 5 g/day for 65 days) reported a 2.6 kg 
(~5.7 lb.) increase in lean mass [ 121 ]. An increase 
in lean mass (60 % greater than the placebo in the K. Levers and K. Vargo

139
previous study) is a typical ergogenic beneﬁ  t 
seen by women with creatine supplementation; 
however, gains in overall body mass and lean 
mass are generally slower than men [ 24 ]. The 
acute (initial 5–7 days) increase in lean mass fol-
lowing creatine monohydrate supplementation 
coupled with a resistance training program was 
found to be lower in women (500–700 g) com-
pared to men (1.0–1.5 kg) in a study conducted 
by Mihic et al. [ 122 ].  
7.6.3     Physiological Mechanisms 
for Increasing Lean Body Mass 
 Some research has addressed the potential physi-
ological mechanisms responsible for the promo-
tion of lean body mass as result of creatine 
supplementation, but no deﬁ  nitive conclusions 
have been agreed upon. The initial studies investi-
gated creatine supplementation and associated 
gains in lean mass, concluding that the primary 
reason for increased body mass was due to addi-
tional water retention in the muscle. Recent 
research suggests that creatine supplementation 
increases body mass through greater myoﬁ  brillar 
protein synthesis and overall lean mass accretion 
[ 115 ,  123 ]. A 12-week resistance training study by 
V olek et al. [ 124 ] demonstrated that resistance- 
trained males ingesting a creatine supplement 
accrued signiﬁ  cantly greater lean mass compared 
with those ingesting a placebo. More speciﬁ  cally, 
signiﬁ  cant differences in ﬁ  ber cross-sectional area 
were observed in all three muscle ﬁ  ber types 
between the creatine supplementation and placebo 
groups: type I (35 % vs. 11 %), type IIA (36 % vs. 
15 %), and type IIX (35 % vs. 6 %). The muscle 
ﬁ ber cross-sectional area growth in the creatine 
group, for all muscle ﬁ  ber types, was more than 
twice the increases observed in the placebo group, 
with the largest difference found in the most 
anaerobic ﬁ  ber type (type IIX) [ 117 ,  124 ]. 
 The physiological mechanisms connecting 
increases in lean body mass as a result of creatine 
supplementation were further analyzed by 
Willoughby and Rosene in a series of two studies 
examining the effects of oral creatine supplemen-
tation on contractile ﬁ  lament gene expression and myosin heavy-chain protein expression [ 125 , 
 126 ]. The ﬁ  rst of the two studies recruited and 
divided untrained male subjects into two supple-
ment groups: creatine (6 g/day) or placebo. Both 
groups participated in a 12-week resistance train-
ing program. Similar to previously mentioned 
studies, the creatine supplementation group had 
signiﬁ  cantly greater gains in lean mass compared 
to the placebo (~7 lb vs. ~1 lb). Despite similar 
results in lean mass, this initial study also noted 
some interesting differences between groups at 
the cellular level of skeletal muscle. The marker 
for quantity of intracellular protein content, or 
myoﬁ  brillar protein content, demonstrated sig-
niﬁ cantly greater elevations in the creatine sup-
plementation group compared to the placebo 
when both groups participated in the same resis-
tance training program. This difference between 
supplementation groups was associated with the 
signiﬁ  cant increases found in the two isoforms of 
myosin heavy-chain protein (fundamental units 
of contractile skeletal muscle) in the creatine 
group compared to the placebo [ 125 ]. 
 The second study conducted by Willoughby 
and Rosene expanded upon the results of their 
ﬁ rst study by analyzing the effects of creatine 
supplementation in conjunction with a similar 
12-week resistance training program on changes 
in myogenic regulatory factor gene expression. 
Myogenic regulatory factors (e.g., Myo-D, myo-
genin, MRF-4, andMyf-5) are vital proteins that 
drive the regulation of gene expression through 
their function as transcription activators. These 
myogenic regulatory factors work to regulate 
gene expression by binding to DNA and subse-
quently activating muscle-speciﬁ  c gene tran-
scription for important muscular components 
such as myosin light chain, myosin heavy chain, 
troponin I, α-actinin, and creatine kinase [ 127 ]. 
At the conclusion of the 12-week resistance 
training program, subjects supplementing with 
creatine demonstrated signiﬁ  cantly greater myo-
genin and MRF-4 mRNA expression compared 
with subjects ingesting the control during the 
resistance training program [ 126 ]. These studies 
conducted by Willoughby and Rosene demon-
strate greater mechanistic insight into the devel-
opment of lean body mass when  supplementing 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

140
with creatine in conjunction with a resistance 
training program. Furthermore, these studies 
indicate that increases in lean body mass from 
creatine supplementation are not solely attributed 
to greater water retention in the muscle, but 
rather demonstrated that creatine supplementa-
tion may induce skeletal muscle hypertrophy at 
the level of gene expression within the muscle 
environment.  
7.6.4     Satellite Cell Activity 
 In conjunction with all of the aforementioned 
beneﬁ  ts of creatine supplementation for increas-
ing lean body mass, the literature also demon-
strates that creatine ingestion may enhance the 
increase in skeletal muscle satellite cell numbers, 
normally attributed to strength training alone. 
The activation of muscle-speciﬁ  c satellite cells is 
speculated to be the primary factor associated 
with amplifying skeletal muscle hypertrophy 
beyond muscle-speciﬁ  c transcription and transla-
tion. Load-induced muscle hypertrophy, as a 
result of strength training, is a stimulus for a 
growth process deﬁ  ned by satellite cell prolifera-
tion, differentiation, and fusion with existing 
myoﬁ  bers or muscle cells [ 128 ]. The  myonuclear 
domain theory   deﬁ nes the involvement of satel-
lite cells in the process of skeletal muscle hyper-
trophy, suggesting that the myonucleus deﬁ  nes 
the production of mRNA and proteins through 
transcription and translation for a speciﬁ  c vol-
ume of cytoplasm. Hypertrophy of the muscle 
through increases in ﬁ  ber size must include a pro-
portional increase in myonuclei, which are typi-
cally contributed to the myoﬁ  bers via fusion of 
satellite cell populations [ 129 ]. If satellite cells 
are the primary contributor of myonuclei in a 
growing muscle, then the myonuclear domain 
theory, if correct, indirectly states that anything 
promoting increases in satellite cell activity will 
ultimately lay the foundation for greater changes 
in skeletal muscle hypertrophy. 
 The inﬂ  uence of creatine supplementation on 
satellite cell activity, based on the myonuclear 
domain theory, was explored by Olsen et al. [ 130 ]. These researchers studied changes 
in  satellite cell frequency and the number of 
myonuclei in human skeletal muscle over a 
16-week resistance training program in conjunc-
tion with creatine supplementation, protein 
ingestion, or a placebo cohort. At the end of the 
16-week resistance training regimen, all groups 
demonstrated an increase in satellite cell propor-
tion. Despite increases in satellite cell prolifera-
tion across the board, creatine was the only 
supplement that demonstrated signiﬁ  cantly dif-
ferent increases in the myonuclear density of the 
muscle ﬁ  ber. As a result, Olsen et al. determined 
that resistance training in conjunction with cre-
atine supplementation intensiﬁ  es the strength 
training-induced increase in both satellite cell 
number and concentration of myonuclei in 
human skeletal muscle. Skeletal muscle ﬁ  ber 
hypertrophy is ampliﬁ  ed when creatine supple-
mentation is combined with the proper resis-
tance training program [ 130 ].  
7.6.5     Application 
 Regarded as one of the most highly researched 
nutritional ergogenic aids from clinical to athletic 
applications, creatine has proven to be the most 
effective and safest supplement to increase lean 
body mass, strength, and performance. Concerns 
about the safety and potential side effects of cre-
atine supplementation have been put to rest by 
long-term safety and pharmacokinetic studies 
that revealed no apparent side effects with sup-
plementation. As a consumer of supplements 
containing creatine or creatine supplements, it is 
important to note the type, quality, and/or source 
of the creatine, as not all forms are equal. Despite 
numerous attempts by various nutritional compa-
nies to develop the latest and most effective form 
of creatine, creatine monohydrate remains as the 
gold standard for supplementation. Additionally, 
it is highly recommended that creatine supple-
mentation be closely aligned with the periodiza-
tion pattern and goals of the athlete’s training 
program in order to maximize performance and 
lean body mass gains.   K. Levers and K. Vargo

141
7.7     Anabolic Hormone 
Enhancers 
 Serving as key messengers in the body, hormones 
play an essential role to building and maintaining 
muscles. Food, stress, and activity all heavily 
inﬂ uence the concentration of hormone levels in 
the body. Although there are hundreds of hor-
mones in the body, the ones discussed in this 
chapter are speciﬁ  cally related to muscle build-
ing. The ﬁ  rst set of hormones reviewed is ana-
bolic hormones, better known as the hormones 
that directly stimulate muscle growth. The next 
set of hormones is concerned with preventing 
catabolism of muscle (Sect.  9 ). Understanding 
the role of hormones in the muscular growth pro-
cess is important for optimizing body composi-
tion as well as realizing the positive and negative 
effects of supplementation. The key anabolic 
hormones found in the body are testosterone, 
human growth hormone, insulin, and insulin-like 
growth factor 1 (IGF-1). 
7.7.1     Testosterone 
 Testosterone is a lipid-soluble hormone that is 
produced in both males and females. Its role in 
muscle hypertrophy is to promote protein synthe-
sis, prevent catabolism [ 131 ], and promote the 
release of growth hormone. Testosterone and its 
synthetic derivatives, known as anabolic- 
androgenic steroids (AAS), have been used in 
medicine and recreation to induce muscle hyper-
trophy and/or reduce muscle atrophy due to dis-
use and aging. It is a banned substance by the 
NCAA, the International Olympic Committee, 
and by all major North American Professional 
Leagues [ 132 ]. It is currently legal to administer 
testosterone and AAS in a medical setting, but it 
is also used in sport and competition, despite 
being illegal. 
 Many supplements claim to increase testoster-
one; however it is thought that only bioavailable 
or free testosterone promotes an anabolic 
response in muscle tissue. When assessing sup-
plement claims for increasing testosterone levels, one should note changes in total testosterone, 
free testosterone, estradiol, as well as sex 
hormone- binding globulin. Of these hormones, 
only free testosterone can bind to androgen 
receptors and promote anabolism. A few supple-
ments that claim to increase testosterone are 
ZMA, tribulus terrestris, and aromatase inhibi-
tors. ZMA and tribulus terrestris are discussed in 
the sections below, while aromatase inhibitors 
are further referenced in Sect.  8 . 
7.7.1.1     ZMA 
 ZMA is a supplement typically comprised of zinc 
monomethionine aspartate, magnesium aspar-
tate, and vitamin B 6 . Physiologically, zinc is a 
component of many enzymes that maintain bal-
anced hormone levels [ 132 ]. Magnesium is 
involved in over 300 enzymatic reactions and 
plays a pivotal role in immunity, hormone struc-
ture and development, and heart function [ 133 , 
 134 ]. Vitamin B 6  is a key vitamin for energy pro-
duction. Studies have shown that physically 
active individuals may have zinc and magnesium 
deﬁ ciencies compounded by the loss of these 
vitamins and minerals through sweat and urine 
following exercise [ 133 ,  135 – 138 ]. Many ZMA 
products claim to elevate testosterone levels in 
the body; however, the literature has demon-
strated conﬂ  icting evidence. 
 One study demonstrating the positive effects 
of ZMA supplementation on testosterone levels 
was conducted with collegiate football players 
[ 139 ]. During 8 weeks of spring practice, they 
were provided ZMA supplementation (30 mg 
zinc monomethionine aspartate, 450 mg magne-
sium aspartate, and 10.5 mg of vitamin B 6 ). At 
the conclusion of the study, both total and free 
testosterone levels were signiﬁ  cantly higher than 
the control group. An important factor to con-
sider when evaluating this study outcome was the 
observed deﬁ  ciencies in zinc and magnesium in 
the placebo group throughout the study. Thus, the 
assumed increase in testosterone levels among 
the supplement group may have been due to the 
nutritional deﬁ  ciency found in the placebo group. 
 A double-blind control-treatment study con-
ducted by Koehler colleagues assessed the effects 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

142
of ZMA supplementation on testosterone levels 
after 56 days in healthy. The study participants 
were healthy, active men who consumed sufﬁ  -
cient zinc levels prior to the study. Following the 
study, serum testosterone levels were measured 
for both the placebo and control group, in which 
no signiﬁ  cant differences between groups were 
found. Therefore, among individuals consuming 
sufﬁ cient zinc, there appears to be no elevated 
serum testosterone level from ZMA supplemen-
tation [ 140 ]. Another study assessed the effects 
of ZMA supplementation on training adaptations 
among 42 resistance-trained male athletes. After 
8-week supplementation, no signiﬁ  cant differ-
ences in anabolic hormone levels, catabolic hor-
mone levels, and body composition were 
observed between the groups [ 141 ]. 
 From the literature, it appears that maintaining 
optimum levels of ZMA through proper whole- 
food nutrition can determine the impact of ZMA 
supplementation on testosterone levels. In those 
athletes who are not deﬁ  cient in magnesium and 
zinc, no beneﬁ  t of ZMA supplementation should 
be expected.  
7.7.1.2     Tribulus Terrestris 
 Tribulus terrestris (TT) is an herbal plant whose 
extracts have been used for diuretic, tonic, and 
aphrodisiac properties [ 142 ]. Marketing claims 
for TT include increasing testosterone levels, 
thereby making it a popular supplement among 
athletes and bodybuilders [ 142 ]. Currently, there 
is limited research on the effects of TT on human 
testosterone levels. One study showed no effect 
on testosterone levels after a 4-week supplemen-
tation with TT [ 143 ]. Another study assessed TT 
supplementation during a 5-week preseason train-
ing program in rugby players [ 144 ]. A double- 
blind matched-paired design was used to assess 
the effects of TT compared to a placebo on 
strength, body composition, and urinary testoster-
one/epitestosterone ratio. At the end of 5 weeks, 
there were no signiﬁ  cant differences between 
groups in any of the aforementioned physiologi-
cal or hormonal measurements [ 144 ]. In conclu-
sion, the existing research on TT supplementation 
demonstrates no evidence of increasing testoster-
one levels, and therefore it is not recommended.   7.7.2     Human Growth Hormone 
 Human growth hormone (GH) is produced in the 
anterior pituitary gland and is known (under cer-
tain conditions) to increase lipolysis and lean 
body mass and plays an important role in collagen 
synthesis [ 145 ]. GH has been attributed to gains 
in lean mass while decreasing fat mass among 
diseased populations [ 146 – 150 ]. Due to the 
known physiological beneﬁ  ts of GH, it is a popu-
lar performance-enhancing hormone used among 
weight lifters [ 151 ]. Despite the physiological 
beneﬁ  ts of GH, there are negative implications 
from long-term supplement use such as acromeg-
aly, diabetes, decreased respiratory function, as 
well as certain type of cancers [ 151 ]. Many sports 
supplements claim to enhance GH levels, but 
what most fail to report is that studies demonstrat-
ing this effect were conducted intravenously or in 
subjects who were clinically deﬁ  cient. 
 Perhaps the most well-known supplement that 
claims to increase GH secretion is arginine [ 147 , 
 152 ,  153 ]. The proposed mechanism of elevated 
GH attributed to arginine is through endogenous 
somatostatin depression [ 147 ]. Arginine supple-
mentation of 12–30 g has been shown to elevate 
GH levels [ 147 ,  149 ]. Arginine supplementation 
in conjunction with other amino acids has been 
shown to be effective for increasing GH. Two 
amino acids coupled with arginine supplementa-
tion are ornithine and lysine. Zajac and col-
leagues found increases in both GH and IGF-1 
after supplementation with 12 g arginine and 3 g 
ornithine during a 3-week training period [ 153 ]. 
Isidori and colleagues found that increases in GH 
levels were 8 times higher 90 min after ingesting 
1.2 g of arginine with 1.2 g of lysine [ 154 ]. 
 Another commonly used compound coupled 
with arginine to stimulate GH release is aspar-
tate. One study assessed the effects of a 7-day 
arginine-aspartate supplementation regiment on 
GH levels [ 155 ]. Results concluded that peak 
sleeping GH levels were 60 % higher among the 
supplement group in comparison to the control 
group. Another study observed the effects of 
arginine-aspartate supplementation among 
endurance athletes [ 156 ]. The athletes were given 
7.5 g of the supplement two times daily (morning K. Levers and K. Vargo

143
and evening), 14 days prior to competing in a 
marathon. Greater hormone levels were present 
in the supplement group (8 % higher) compared 
to the control group. 
 Not all studies have elicited an elevated GH 
response with arginine supplementation. Alvares 
et al. assessed the effects of a 4-week supplemen-
tation with 6 g of arginine in comparison to a pla-
cebo and found no signiﬁ  cant difference in GH 
levels [ 157 ]. Other studies, such as the research 
conducted by Walberg-Rankin, provided 
resistance- trained males 8 g of arginine for 10 
days and found no signiﬁ  cant elevation in GH 
levels [ 158 ]. Despite these studies concluding 
that no relationship exists between arginine sup-
plementation and GH levels, one must consider 
the dose of arginine prescribed. As mentioned 
above, the recommended dose of arginine sup-
plementation in order to have an effect on GH 
levels is between 12 and 30 g per day. 
 A study assessed the inﬂ  uence of  L -arginine on 
growth hormone levels by providing trained run-
ners 6 g of  L -arginine or a placebo [ 159 ]. Serum 
blood GH was tested in each of the runners before 
exercise, immediately following the two bouts of 
a 5 k timed run and 20 min postexercise. There 
was no difference in GH hormone levels between 
study groups, indicating that  L -arginine did not 
appear to enhance GH hormone levels. 
 Forbes and colleagues assessed the combined 
effect of exercise and oral  L -arginine supplemen-
tation on growth hormone levels among strength- 
trained males [ 160 ]. Fourteen males were divided 
into two groups, a placebo group and an 
 L -ARGININE  - SUPPLEMENTED   group (0.075 g/kg body 
mass). Subjects performed resistance exercises, 
and blood samples were collected before and at 
15 min intervals following the bout, up to 1 h 
postexercise. The study concluded that plasma 
 L -arginine levels in the supplement group were 
elevated, but GH levels were attenuated as a 
result of supplementation. 
 Another  L -arginine study evaluated supplemen-
tation among trained cyclists [ 161 ]. Fifteen males 
were assigned to either a placebo or  L - ARGININE   
supplement (0.075 g/kg body mass) before a sub-
maximal exercise. The study found no differences 
in growth hormone levels between groups.  A long-term study assessed the inﬂ  uence of a 
4-week  L -arginine supplementation protocol on 
hormonal responses among trained runners [ 157 ]. 
Following supplementation, blood samples were 
collected before a 5 km timed trial, following the 
trial, following a second 5 km timed trial, and 
20 min after recovery. The study concluded there 
were no signiﬁ  cant differences in hormonal 
responses, including GH, between the placebo 
and the  L -arginine-supplemented group. Hormonal 
changes recorded over time occurred similarly in 
both groups and thus were attributed to the exer-
cise stimulus. 
 Research has also implicated that supplemen-
tation with melatonin in combination with exer-
cise may result in elevated GH levels [ 162 ]. 
Nassar and colleagues randomly assigned 30 
males and 30 females, all physically active, to 
various levels of supplementation: 0.5 mg mela-
tonin, 5.0 mg melatonin, or 1.0 mg dextrose pla-
cebo. Blood samples were taken prior to the 
resistance training bout and were collected up to 
120 min postexercise at 15 min increments. The 
study concluded that the combination of exercise 
and melatonin supplementation positively inﬂ  u-
enced GH levels when compared to the dextrose 
placebo. Similarly, Meeking et al. studying the 
effects of 5 mg of melatonin supplementation on 
exercise induced changes in growth hormone lev-
els [ 163 ]. This double-blind randomized control 
trial contained 7 healthy male subjects who 
received both the placebo and melatonin supple-
ment at separate times prior to completing a 
graded cycle ergometer exercise protocol; there 
was a 3-week washout period between trials. 
Following analysis of the blood samples col-
lected before and during 15 min intervals until 
the study was complete, the researchers observed 
greater GH levels when the subjects completed 
the melatonin-exercise scenario. 
 Another study assessed the inﬂ  uence of oral 
melatonin supplementation in combination with 
resistance training [ 164 ]. In a randomized, 
double- blind, crossover study, 10 healthy males 
received a placebo or 6 mg of melatonin on two 
separate occasions. Supplements were ingested 
60 min before exercise, while blood samples 
were taken in the morning, pre-resistance  w orkout, 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

144
during resistance training, and at 15 min intervals 
for 60 min postexercise. This study concluded 
that melatonin ingestion during the daytime in 
conjunction with intense resistance training may 
lower GH concentrations. 
 Based on the literature, there is no deﬁ  nitive 
link between these amino acids and muscle 
hypertrophy, despite some research demonstrat-
ing increases in GH levels. More research needs 
to be completed on the effects of melatonin and 
exercise on GH levels to have a clearer under-
standing of its effects. Overall, a consistent aspect 
throughout these studies for elevating GH levels 
is exercise.  
7.7.3     Insulin-Like Growth Factor 1 
 IGF-1 “is the mediator of the anabolic and mito-
genic activity of GH” [ 165 ]. The majority of 
IGF-1 is produced in the liver and functions as an 
endocrine hormone in the body [ 149 ,  166 ]. IGF-1 
plays a role in all three muscle protein hypertro-
phy mechanisms: gene transcription, protein 
translation, and satellite cell activity [ 167 ]. 
Therefore, the presence of IGF-1 is associated 
with the potential for activation of muscle protein 
synthesis. Very few studies have shown any 
effective supplement mechanisms to increase 
endogenous IGF-1. 
 The two single most inﬂ  uential factors for 
increasing IGF-1 in the body are mechanical stim-
ulation and the release of GH. There have been a 
few studies demonstrating that bovine colostrum 
supplementation among training athletes resulted 
in elevated IGF-1 levels [ 168 ,  169 ]. Despite the 
elevated IGF-1 levels, there was no reported 
information on body composition changes. 
Another study found no signiﬁ  cant changes in 
strength and muscle protein balance after 2 weeks 
of bovine colostrum supplementation [ 168 ]. 
 Creatine supplementation has been shown to 
increase intramuscular levels of IGF-1. Deldicque 
and colleagues conducted a double-blind cross-
over study assessing muscle biopsies from sub-
jects who had taken creatine or a placebo for 5 
days following a high-intensity resistance exer-
cise bout. The researchers found greater levels of mRNA for IGF-1 among subjects in the creatine 
supplementation group [ 170 ]. Another study 
demonstrating the effects of creatine supplemen-
tation coupled with resistance training on IGF-1 
was led by Burke et al. [ 171 ]. This randomized 
control study assessed the effects of creatine or 
placebo supplementation on muscle IGF-1 over 
49 days of training in active, healthy adults. The 
study found that the creatine group had an 
increased IGF-1 intramuscular content 78 % 
above baseline, compared to a 54 % change from 
baseline in the control group, thus supporting the 
claim that creatine supplementation increases 
intramuscular IGF-1 concentration. 
 Recent research has also shown potential 
mechanisms with vitamin D 3  supplementation to 
increase serum IGF-1 levels in adults [ 172 ]. 
Ameri and colleagues provided study subjects 
vitamin D 3  orally (5,000 or 7,000 IUD) in com-
parison to a placebo group over a 12-week period 
and measured serum IGF-1 levels pre- and post- 
supplementation. The group that received 7,000 
IUD of vitamin D 3  weekly saw signiﬁ  cant 
increases in circulating IGF-1 levels. The results 
of this particular study may lead to a more effec-
tive clinical treatment in patients with GH deﬁ  -
ciency, but further investigation is necessary to 
assess effectiveness of vitamin D 3  supplementa-
tion in the active and athletic populations before 
solidifying more formalized recommendations.  
7.7.4     Application 
 There are supplements on the market that claim 
to increase anabolic hormone levels; however, 
not all of them have been proven to do so. 
Testosterone is a key anabolic hormone for the 
promotion of muscle hypertrophy. Two supple-
ments that are proclaimed to increase testoster-
one levels are ZMA and tribulus terrestris. Based 
on the current literature, it appears that proper 
nutrition is superior to supplementation in this 
case and the best option for optimizing levels of 
zinc monomethionine aspartate, magnesium 
aspartate, and vitamin B 6 . To date there is no evi-
dence that tribulus terrestris increases testoster-
one levels. Another major anabolic hormone K. Levers and K. Vargo

145
responsible for muscle hypertrophy is human 
growth hormone. The amino acids arginine and 
arginine-aspartate have been shown to elevate 
GH levels in a few (but not all) studies; however, 
this has not been translated into lean mass gains. 
IGF-1 is another important factor for muscle pro-
tein synthesis, where recent research suggests 
that creatine and possibly vitamin D3 supple-
mentation may increase IGF-1 levels.   
7.8      Aromatase Inhibitors 
 Aromatase inhibitors (AIs) are pharmacological 
agents used to prevent or minimize the activity 
of the enzyme aromatase. Aromatase converts 
androgens to estrogens through aromatization, 
therefore decreasing the concentration of estro-
gen in the body [ 173 ]. Conventionally, AIs have 
been used in breast cancer treatment; however, 
their use has crossed over into the world of 
bodybuilding and training due to their reputation 
for increasing endogenous testosterone concen-
trations. To assess the inﬂ  uence of AI supple-
ments on body composition and testosterone 
levels, Willoughby and colleagues had male par-
ticipants consume 72 mg of an AI supplement 
over 8 weeks [ 95 ]. A 3-week washout phase fol-
lowed the 8-week supplementation phase. 
Throughout the study, subjects were asked to 
maintain their normal exercise routines. At the 
end of the 8 weeks, changes in testosterone lev-
els from baseline, both total and free, were sig-
niﬁ cantly higher in the treatment group compared 
to the control, 283 and 625 %, respectively. At 
the end of the study, subjects in the AI supple-
ment group had a 3.5 % decrease in fat mass. 
Following the  post- supplementation washout 
period, testosterone levels returned to pre-inter-
vention levels. 
 From the results of this study, it is evident 
that the speciﬁ  c AI supplement had a positive 
effect on testosterone levels. Keep in mind this 
was only one study. Thus, much more research 
is needed to conﬁ  rm the efﬁ  cacy as well as 
safety when using AI supplements. As a result, 
AI supplements cannot be recommended at the 
present time. 7.8.1     Application 
 The central purpose of aromatase inhibitors is to 
prevent aromatase from converting androgens to 
estrogens and increase endogenous testosterone 
production via a negative feedback mechanism. 
Evidence demonstrates positive effects resulting 
from AI supplementation on testosterone levels 
when introduced into a preexisting exercise pro-
gram. However, the beneﬁ  ts of AI supplements 
on gains in lean mass or performance remain to 
be demonstrated.   
7.9      Anti-catabolic Supplements 
 In order to optimize muscle hypertrophy and the 
development of lean mass, muscle protein syn-
thesis must be greater than muscle protein break-
down. Therefore, there is a rather extensive 
supplement market promoting products that 
 purport to decrease muscle catabolism (i.e., the 
breakdown of muscle tissue). Three of the most 
popular supplements used to prevent muscle pro-
tein breakdown are glutamine, β-hydroxyl- β- 
methylbutyrate (HMB), and α-ketoisocaproic 
acid (KIC). These three supplements are further 
discussed below. Insulin is also a compound that 
plays a permissive role in reducing muscle pro-
tein breakdown [ 71 ,  74 ,  174 ], hence the reason 
why consuming carbohydrate and protein follow-
ing a workout is recommended. 
7.9.1     Glutamine 
 Glutamine, a nonessential amino acid, is revered 
for its anti-catabolic properties and is often a sup-
plement typically consumed after a resistance 
training workout. It is the most prevalent free 
amino acid in skeletal muscle and accounts for 
over ﬁ  fty percent of amino acid concentration 
within muscle tissue [ 175 ]. Glutamine is one of 
the major sources of fuel for the gut and gastroin-
testinal tract and under certain circumstances can 
provide an alternative source of energy to skeletal 
muscle. Theoretically, supplementing with gluta-
mine prevents skeletal muscle glutamine from 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

146
being metabolized by the gut, thus diminishing 
muscle protein breakdown. 
 Research assessing exercise and its effects on 
glutamine concentration has had mixed results at 
best. Some studies show that plasma glutamine 
concentration levels decline following eccentric 
resistance training [ 176 ], whereas others have 
shown no change in plasma glutamine levels 
[ 177 ]. Street and colleagues found that glutamine 
supplementation following an eccentric workout 
decreased the perception of muscle soreness and 
attenuated strength losses within 96 h following 
exercise [ 178 ]. A few studies in the literature 
have demonstrated potential anti-catabolic effects 
of glutamine supplementation among ill or recent 
surgery patients [ 179 ,  180 ]. Contrary to these 
ﬁ ndings, other studies have found no beneﬁ  t of 
glutamine supplementation on lean mass or per-
formance. Pellegrinotti et al. saw no changes in 
swimming performance between glutamine and 
cornstarch groups after 30 days of supplementa-
tion, a study conducted among 10 adolescent 
(10–18 years old) male endurance swimmers 
[ 181 ]. Another study conducted by Ramallo et al 
showed that glutamine supplementation did not 
have an effect on muscle damage proﬁ  le follow-
ing resistance training [ 182 ]. Untrained subjects 
were placed into one of two supplement groups: 
maltodextrin and maltodextrin plus glutamine. 
The results of this study demonstrated that the 
inclusion of glutamine did not have any inﬂ  uence 
on the level of muscle tissue damage incurred by 
these subjects.  
7.9.2     β-Hydroxy- β-Methylbutyrate 
 Another supplement associated with preventing 
muscle protein breakdown is β-hydroxy- β- 
methylbutyrate (HMB), a metabolite of leucine. 
The ﬁ  rst study demonstrating the anti-catabolic 
properties of HMB was led by Nissen and col-
leagues [ 183 ], who introduced HMB supplemen-
tation (3 g/day) to untrained individuals 
compared to a control group during a 3-week 
resistance training program. To measure muscle 
protein breakdown, urine analysis of 3-methyhi-
stidine was conducted. The smallest amount of muscle protein breakdown was shown in the 
HMB supplementation group, as 50 % less 
3- methylhistidine was present in their urine dur-
ing week 1. However, by the end of week 3, there 
were no signiﬁ  cant differences among groups 
[ 183 ]. The results of this initial study provide dif-
ﬁ culty in forming a concrete conclusion concern-
ing HMB supplementation as 3-methylhistidine 
is not the best marker to use in the evaluation of 
muscle protein breakdown. In a more recent 
study, a 2-week HMB supplementation protocol 
during a high-volume training regimen resulted 
in lower serum cortisol levels and decreased 
prevalence of creatine kinase as a marker of 
 muscle damage [ 184 ]. Other studies have dem-
onstrated similar ﬁ  ndings resulting from HMB 
supplementation [ 185 ]. 
 In some research, HMB supplementation 
demonstrates the ability to attenuate muscle pro-
tein breakdown as well as reduce blood markers 
of muscle degradation. The effects of HMB sup-
plementation on body composition and gains in 
lean mass remain under contention. Nissen and 
colleagues extended the study mentioned above 
to 7 weeks of HMB supplementation (3 g/day) 
in comparison to a control group in conjunction 
with the aforementioned resistance training pro-
gram. The study concluded that those who sup-
plemented with HMB saw increases in lean 
mass throughout the intervention. However, the 
cumulative gains in lean mass at the end of the 
study were not signiﬁ  cantly greater than the 
control [ 183 ]. Another study assessed the out-
comes of supplementing with HMB-ATP on 
lean body mass over a 12-week period in trained 
subjects and found a 12.7 % increase in lean 
body mass [ 186 ]. 
 Dunsmore and colleagues [ 187 ] assessed the 
effects of 3 g/day HMB free acid (FA) or a pla-
cebo over the course of a 12-week periodized 
resistance training study. Following the 12-week 
intervention, strength, power, and muscle hyper-
trophy improved among the HMB supplement 
group. To further demonstrate the positive effects 
of HMB supplementation, Lowery et al. con-
ducted a three-phase double-blind study that pro-
vided subjects 3 g/day HMB free acid, 400 mg/
day of Peak ATP, or a combination of the two K. Levers and K. Vargo

147
[ 188 ]. The greatest strength gains were achieved 
in the combination group followed by the HMB 
free acid group. 
 From the literature, there is evidence suggest-
ing that HMB supplementation may prevent mus-
cle protein breakdown. Second to only 
carbohydrate consumption, HMB supplementa-
tion is recommended for preventing muscle 
catabolism. The ISSN recommends consuming 
1–2 g of HMB-FA 30–60 min prior to exercise, as 
well as consuming 3 g/day of HMB for 2 weeks 
prior to high-intensity training [ 90 ].  
7.9.3     α- Ketoisocaproic Acid 
 Commonly referred to as KIC, α- ketoisocaproic 
acid is another supplement purported to have 
anti-catabolic effects in muscle. Structurally, 
KIC is the ketoacid of leucine, one of the 
branched-chain amino acids. Although supple-
ment companies market KIC as an anti-catabolic 
supplement, there is minimal scientiﬁ  c research 
supporting these claims. One study assessed the 
inﬂ uence of 0.3 g/day of KIC supplementation, 
in combination with 3 g/day of HMB, on creatine 
kinase, a biomarker representative of muscle 
damage [ 185 ]. The 14-day supplementation pro-
tocol yielded lower creatine kinase appearance in 
blood in comparison to the placebo group. This 
initial ﬁ  nding is interesting, but the effect of KIC 
on muscle protein breakdown has yet to be con-
clusively demonstrated.  
7.9.4     Application 
 Reducing muscle catabolism is one mechanism 
for optimizing lean mass. Glutamine, β-hydroxy-  
β-methylbutyrate (HMB), and α- ketoisocaproic 
acid (KIC) are three supplements that are mar-
keted to have anti-catabolic properties. Out of the 
three, HMB is the most promising to prevent 
muscle protein breakdown. It may be especially 
helpful during periods of overreaching (i.e., 
deliberate increases in intensity and duration of 
training).   7.10     Nitric Oxide Boosters 
7.10.1     Nitric Oxide Physiology 
 One of the latest trends in the supplement indus-
try is the promotion of supplements claiming to 
increase nitric oxide (NO) production. 
Physiologically, NO plays important roles in 
skeletal muscle physiology including regulating 
force production, glucose homeostasis, and blood 
ﬂ ow [ 189 ]. NO also promotes smooth muscle 
relaxation and is produced by nitric oxide syn-
thase within cells. It is commonly believed that 
NO inﬂ  uences metabolic responses during exer-
cise including increased blood ﬂ  ow and oxygen 
distribution to cardiac and skeletal muscle as well 
as promoting glucose utilization to preserve 
sources of skeletal muscle energy [ 190 ].  
7.10.2     Nitric Oxide-Boosting 
Supplements 
 The fundamental ingredient contained in “nitric 
oxide-enhancing” supplements is typically argi-
nine, an amino acid and a precursor for NO syn-
thesis [ 191 ]. Arginine dictates the body’s 
production of NO as it is the only nitrogen- 
containing NO synthase substrate. One study 
assessed the effects of an arginine supplement on 
NO production over an 8-week resistance train-
ing program [ 192 ]. Although the intervention 
group demonstrated improved strength, there was 
no measure of NO production and no signiﬁ  cant 
increases in lean body mass. Another study 
assessed the effects of a 7-day arginine- containing 
supplement regimen combined with resistance 
training on brachial artery blood ﬂ  ow, NO levels, 
arginine levels, and endothelial nitric oxide syn-
thase (eNOS) levels in a randomized setting 
[ 193 ]. Blood samples were taken both pre- and 
post-resistance training bouts. Arginine was sig-
niﬁ cantly higher in the supplement group prior to 
the exercise bout (84.7 %). There were elevated 
levels of NO, brachial artery ﬂ  ow, and eNOS in 
both groups postexercise and no signiﬁ  cant dif-
ferences between groups. Theoretically, arginine 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

148
supplementation may result in increased perfor-
mance due to the physiological role it has in NO 
production. Scientiﬁ  cally, there is not enough 
research to support the claim that a nitric oxide- 
boosting supplement can inﬂ  uence muscle hyper-
trophy and lean body mass. 
 Alvares et al. [ 194 ] assessed the effect of 
 L -arginine supplementation on nitric oxide indi-
cators, nitrite and nitrate (NO x ). In this double- 
blind, randomized controlled study, 15 males 
were provided 6 g of  L -arginine or a placebo. Pre- 
supplement blood samples were collected. 
80 min following supplementation, the exercise 
protocol began. Blood samples were collected at 
30 min intervals following supplementation, up 
to 120 min post-supplementation. The study con-
cluded there was no signiﬁ  cant difference in NO x  
levels between groups. 
 Willoughby and colleagues studied the effects 
of a 7-day arginine-alpha-ketoglutarate (AAKG) 
supplement on various biomarkers, including 
nitric oxide metabolites and plasma  L -arginine 
[ 195 ]. Twenty-four active males were prescribed 
12 g/day of the AAKG supplement or a placebo 
for 7 days. A resistance training bout was per-
formed, and blood samples were taken before, 
immediately postexercise, and 30 min postexer-
cise. The AAKG supplement group increased 
plasma  L -arginine levels, but there was no differ-
ence found in NO x  levels between groups. 
A study conducted by Forbes et al. [ 161 ] assess-
ing the effects of  L -arginine supplementation 
among trained cyclists was mentioned previously 
in the growth hormone section. This study also 
 concluded that  L -arginine supplementation did 
not have any inﬂ  uence on NO x  levels. 
 Another supplement thought to have an inﬂ  u-
ence on nitric oxide levels is citrulline, which 
contributes to greater  L -arginine levels in the 
blood [ 196 ]. Seventeen trained male cyclists 
were randomly assigned to a placebo or 
6 g  L -citrulline-malate-supplemented group. The 
design of the study called for the supplements to 
be consumed 2 h prior to exercise. Blood samples 
were collected before the 137 km cycling phase, 
15 min post-cycling, and 3 h post-cycling. This 
study found that  L -citrulline-malate signiﬁ  cantly 
increased plasma nitrite levels, but no research literature has demonstrated a direct link between 
 L -citrulline or  L -citrulline-malate supplementa-
tion and changes in NO x  levels, particularly in 
relation to responses during exercise. 
 Schweldhelm and colleagues observed the 
inﬂ uence of  L -arginine and  L -citrulline supple-
mentation on nitric oxide at rest [ 197 ]. In a ran-
domized, double-blind crossover study, 20 
subjects received one of six different dosing 
combinations containing citrulline, arginine, or a 
placebo for a week (7 days) with a week washout 
period between treatments. On the seventh day, a 
biochemical analysis was run on blood samples 
collected pre- and post-supplementation to assess 
biomarkers and pharmacodynamics. The study 
found that  L -citrulline supplementation increased 
plasma  L -arginine as well as NO-dependent 
signaling. 
  L -citrulline supplementation may improve 
arterial stiffness, as demonstrated by a study con-
ducted by Ochiai et al. [ 198 ].  L -citrulline is a 
byproduct of nitric oxide formation and contrib-
utes to the regulation of nitric oxide [ 199 ]. For 
this study, 15 males were recruited to partake in 
the double-blind randomized study in which sub-
jects received either 5.6 g of  L -citrulline or a pla-
cebo. After 7 days of treatment, brachial-ankle 
pulse waves (baPWVs) were measured. The 
authors concluded that  L -citrulline supplementa-
tion had a positive inﬂ  uence on arterial stiffness, 
as baPWVs were lower in the supplement group. 
 A combined exercise and  L -citrulline supple-
ment study was conducted in mice to demon-
strate the potential positive effects of  L -citrulline 
on performance for athletes [ 200 ]. The study 
wanted to assess the effects of  L -citrulline sup-
plementation on performance and fatigue dur-
ing an intense exercise session. Mice were put 
through a swimming regiment with 5 % body 
weight resistance and timed until exhaustion, at 
which point blood was drawn and assessed. The 
group that received the citrulline supplement 
had a signiﬁ  cantly longer performance time, 
decreased plasma blood lactate levels, and 
decreased blood ammonia levels. These ﬁ  nd-
ings provide implications that  L -citrulline may 
be beneﬁ  cial for athletes in prolonging 
exhaustion.  K. Levers and K. Vargo

149
7.10.3     Application 
 Nitric oxide-enhancing supplements have not 
been linked to muscle hypertrophy or increases in 
lean body mass. Nitric oxide supplements are 
typically associated with increases in nitric oxide 
production and increases in blood ﬂ  ow; however, 
there is not enough scientiﬁ  c evidence to prove 
this to be true, particularly in human research. 
Theoretically, some believe nitric oxide supple-
ments may lead to more intense training sessions, 
resulting in hypertrophy; again, this is not cur-
rently supported by the scientiﬁ  c literature.   
7.11     Conclusion 
 Gaining and maintaining lean mass and optimiz-
ing body composition are two common goals 
among many athletes. These processes can be 
achieved by inﬂ  uencing the body through food, 
exercise, and supplements. A basic understand-
ing of the biochemical and physiological bases of 
muscle hypertrophy provides a foundation for 
assessing supplement claims. In conjunction with 
knowledge of supplements, the importance of 
whole-food nutrition cannot be overstated in pro-
moting gains in lean mass and optimizing body 
composition. Protein and creatine are two supple-
ments that have shown consistent promise pro-
moting gains in muscle mass, while many other 
supplements still need more research to  formulate 
more deﬁ  nitive conclusions concerning their 
effect on muscle mass development.  
7.12     Key Points 
•     When meals contain adequate protein as 
sources of amino acids in addition to carbohy-
drates to stimulate insulin activity, muscle pro-
tein synthesis is increased with simultaneous 
decreases in muscle protein breakdown. As a 
result, a signiﬁ  cant boost in positive protein 
balance and muscle protein growth occurs.  
•   Some sports nutrition supplements affect mus-
cle biochemical processes during  transcription and translation of genetic material into mRNA 
(e.g., IGF-1 via creatine or vitamin D 3  supple-
mentation), while others affect muscle bio-
chemical pathways posttranscription as they 
claim to increase muscle mass by driving a 
faster rate of amino acid incorporation into 
formal muscle protein under the guidance of 
mRNA (e.g., leucine supplementation). Still 
other sports nutrition supplements do not 
affect the transcription and translation process 
at all, but rather claim to expedite nutrient 
delivery to working skeletal muscle.  
•   In order to build lean body mass, it is neces-
sary to incorporate high-quality protein as part 
of the normal diet in addition to a proper resis-
tance training program. A quality protein 
source is also necessary to optimize cellular 
and tissue repair in addition to usage as a sub-
strate for numerous hormonal and metabolic 
activities during the recovery process.  
•   When attempting to promote lean muscle 
mass accretion, supplementation with whey 
protein is one great option due to its rapid 
absorption characteristics, high branched- 
chain amino acid content, and health beneﬁ  ts.  
•   A combination of both whey and casein pro-
tein supplements may be even more effective 
for promoting gains in lean muscle mass.  
•   Due to the lower glycemic index of soy pro-
tein and its intermediate rate of digestion (rel-
ative to casein and whey), supplementation 
may be beneﬁ  cial in isolated situations or in 
conjunction with the primary milk proteins.  
•   The variable effects that soy protein supple-
mentation can have on different sexes leads to 
a difference in supplementation recommenda-
tions. With the nonhormonal estrogen-like 
properties, soy protein can be an excellent 
source of high-quality protein for both pre- 
and postmenopausal female athletes. The 
lower saturated fat and cholesterol content of 
soy may also help to promote more nutrient- 
dense caloric intake when used by female ath-
letes as a supplement. For male athletes, 
however, the lower muscle protein fractional 
synthesis rate of soy protein compared to 
whey may be less advantageous. Additional 
research needs to be conducted to answer 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

150
questions concerning soy protein ingestion 
effects on male hormone levels and semen 
quality.  
•   Vegan athletes, however, may need to con-
sider speciﬁ  c meal planning strategies that 
focus on plant sources rich in protein such as 
legumes, nuts and seeds, rice, and other 
whole-grain products in order to achieve 
proper nitrogen balance during periods of 
muscular growth.  
•   Despite its decrease in popularity and regular 
incorporation into newer nutritional supple-
ments due to its higher cost compared to other 
protein forms, egg white protein is another 
great option for athletes.  
•   Under certain circumstances, nutrient timing 
can be important for optimizing training 
responses. The combination of carbohydrate 
and protein provides a surge of amino acids 
and insulin, both of which are necessary for 
maximizing gains in lean mass and recovery. 
For endurance athletes as well as strength- 
power athletes that engage in multiple work-
outs per day, nutrient timing will likely 
expedite recovery.  
•   Creatine monohydrate, at doses of 3–5 g per 
day × 4–6 weeks, is a safe and effective way to 
boost strength, lean mass, and performance.  
•   Studies analyzing the physiological effects of 
creatine on lean body mass development 
strongly indicate that gains are not solely attrib-
uted to greater water retention in the muscle, 
but rather that creatine actually promotes skel-
etal muscle hypertrophy by altering the level of 
gene expression within the muscle itself.  
•   Testosterone and human growth hormone are 
two anabolic hormones that inﬂ  uence the 
development of lean mass and strength. Despite 
the claims of many supplements, none of them 
have conclusively been shown to directly affect 
testosterone or GH in a manner consistent with 
improvements in body composition or perfor-
mance. IGF-1 is another important factor for 
muscle protein synthesis, where recent research 
suggests that creatine and possibly vitamin D3 
supplementation may increase IGF-1 levels 
and indirectly effect GH levels.  
•   Some supplements are used to reduce muscle 
catabolism. Glutamine does not appear to be effective in this regard, HMB shows promise, 
and further research is needed to determine if 
KIC is worthwhile.  
•   Nitric oxide supplements are theoretically 
associated with greater intensity training ses-
sions which may lead to increased muscle 
mass; however, more research needs to be 
done in this area.        
   References 
          1.    Tipton K, Ferrando A. Improving muscle mass: 
response of muscle metabolism to exercise, nutrition 
and anabolic agents. Essays Biochem. 2008;44:
85–98.  
         2.    Biolo G, Maggi SP, Williams BD, Tipton KD, Wolfe 
RR. Increased rates of muscle protein turnover and 
amino acid transport after resistance exercise in 
humans. Am J Physiol. 1995;31(3), E514.  
    3.    Phillips SM, Tipton K, Ferrando AA, Wolfe 
RR. Resistance training reduces the acute exercise- 
induced increase in muscle protein turnover. Am J 
Physiol. 1999;276(1):E118–24.  
     4.    Phillips SM, Tipton KD, Aarsland A, Wolf SE, 
Wolfe RR. Mixed muscle protein synthesis and 
breakdown after resistance exercise in humans. Am 
J Physiol. 1997;36(1), E99.  
     5.    Wagenmakers AJ. Tracers to investigate protein and 
amino acid metabolism in human subjects. Proc Nutr 
Soc. 1999;58(04):987–1000.  
     6.    Biolo G, Tipton KD, Klein S, Wolfe RR. An abun-
dant supply of amino acids enhances the metabolic 
effect of exercise on muscle protein. Am J Physiol. 
1997;36(1), E122.  
      7.    Hulmi JJ, Kovanen V , Selänne H, Kraemer WJ, 
Häkkinen K, Mero AA. Acute and long-term effects 
of resistance exercise with or without protein inges-
tion on muscle hypertrophy and gene expression. 
Amino Acids. 2009;37(2):297–308.  
          8.   Hulmi JJ, Lockwood CM, Stout JR. Effect of pro-
tein/essential amino acids and resistance training on 
skeletal muscle hypertrophy: A case for whey pro-
tein. Nutr Metab. 2010;7(51).  
     9.    Tipton KD, Ferrando AA, Phillips SM, Doyle D, 
Wolfe RR. Postexercise net protein synthesis in 
human muscle from orally administered amino 
acids. Am J Physiol. 1999;276(4):E628–34.  
    10.    Pitkanen H, Nykanen T, Knuutinen J, Lahti K, 
Keinanen O, Alen M, et al. Free amino acid pool and 
muscle protein balance after resistance exercise. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2003;35(5):784–92.  
    11.    Trumbo P, Schlicker S, Yates AA, Poos M. Dietary 
reference intakes for energy, carbohydrate, ﬁ  ber, fat, 
fatty acids, cholesterol, protein and amino acids. J 
Am Diet Assoc. 2002;102(11):1621–30.  
         12.    Kreider RB, Wilborn CD, Taylor L, Campbell B, 
Almada AL, Collins R, et al. ISSN exercise & sport K. Levers and K. Vargo

151
nutrition review: research & recommendations. J Int 
Soc Sports Nutr. 2010;7(7):2–43.  
    13.    Forslund AH, El-Khoury AE, Olsson RM, Sjödin 
AM, Hambraeus L, Young VR. Effect of protein 
intake and physical activity on 24-h pattern and rate 
of macronutrient utilization. Am J Physiol. 
1999;276(5):E964–76.  
   14.    Friedman J, Lemon P. Effect of chronic endurance 
exercise on retention of dietary protein. Int J Sports 
Med. 1989;10(2):118–23.  
   15.    Lamont LS, Patel DG, Kalhan SC. Leucine kinetics 
in endurance-trained humans. J Appl Physiol. 
1990;69(1):1–6.  
   16.    Meredith C, Zackin M, Frontera W, Evans W. Dietary 
protein requirements and body protein metabolism 
in endurance-trained men. J Appl Physiol. 1989;
66(6):2850–6.  
    17.    Phillips SM, Atkinson SA, Tarnopolsky MA, 
MacDougall J. Gender differences in leucine kinet-
ics and nitrogen balance in endurance athletes. J 
Appl Physiol. 1993;75(5):2134–41.  
    18.    Lemon P. Protein and amino acid needs of the 
strength athlete. Int J Sport Nutr. 1991;1(2):127–45.  
    19.    Lemon P, Tarnopolsky M, MacDougall J, Atkinson 
S. Protein requirements and muscle mass/strength 
changes during intensive training in novice body-
builders. J Appl Physiol. 1992;73(2):767–75.  
    20.    Tarnopolsky M, Atkinson S, MacDougall J, Chesley 
A, Phillips S, Schwarcz H. Evaluation of protein 
requirements for trained strength athletes. J Appl 
Physiol. 1992;73(5):1986–95.  
   21.    Chesley A, MacDougall J, Tarnopolsky M, Atkinson 
S, Smith K. Changes in human muscle protein syn-
thesis after resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol. 
1992;73:1383.  
   22.    Kreider RB. Dietary supplements and the promotion 
of muscle growth with resistance exercise. Sports 
Med. 1999;27(2):97–110.  
   23.    Tarnopolsky MA, MacDougall JD, Atkinson 
SA. Inﬂ  uence of protein intake and training status on 
nitrogen balance and lean body mass. J Appl Physiol. 
1988;64(1):187–93.  
                         24.    Kreider RB, Leutholtz BC, Katch FI, Katch 
VL. Exercise and sport nutrition. Santa Barbara, CA: 
Fitness Technologies Press; 2009.  
    25.   Kreider RB, Fry AC, O’Toole MLE, editors. 
Overtraining in sport. International conference on 
overtraining in sport, Jul, 1996, U Memphis, 
Memphis, TN, US; 1998: Human Kinetics.  
    26.    Holwerda AM, van Vliet S, Trommelen J. Reﬁ  ning 
dietary protein recommendations for the athlete. 
J Physiol. 2013;591(12):2967–8.  
      27.    Moore DR, Robinson MJ, Fry JL, Tang JE, Glover 
EI, Wilkinson SB, et al. Ingested protein dose 
response of muscle and albumin protein synthesis 
after resistance exercise in young men. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2009;89(1):161–8.  
     28.    Bucci L, Unlu L. Proteins and amino acid supple-
ments in exercise and sport. Driskell L, Wolinsky I 
(eds). Energy-yielding macronutrients and energy metabolism in sports nutrition. Boca Raton, FL: 
CRC Press; 2000. pp. 191–212.  
    29.    Etzel MR. Manufacture and use of dairy protein 
fractions. J Nutr. 2004;134(4):996S–1002.  
   30.    Ha E, Zemel MB. Functional properties of whey, 
whey components, and essential amino acids: mech-
anisms underlying health beneﬁ  ts for active people 
(review). J Nutr Biochem. 2003;14(5):251–8.  
    31.    Krissansen GW. Emerging health properties of whey 
proteins and their clinical implications. J Am Coll 
Nutr. 2007;26(6):713S–23.  
     32.    Elliot TA, Cree MG, Sanford AP, Wolfe RR, Tipton 
KD. Milk ingestion stimulates net muscle protein 
synthesis following resistance exercise. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2006;38(4):667.  
    33.    Carunchia Whetstine M, Croissant A, Drake 
M. Characterization of dried whey protein concen-
trate and isolate ﬂ  avor. J Dairy Sci. 2005;88(11):
3826–39.  
         34.    Tipton KD, Elliott TA, Cree MG, Wolf SE, Sanford 
AP, Wolfe RR. Ingestion of casein and whey proteins 
result in muscle anabolism after resistance exercise. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2004;36:2073–81.  
    35.    Mahé S, Messing B, Thuillier F, Tome D. Digestion 
of bovine milk proteins in patients with a high jeju-
nostomy. Am J Clin Nutr. 1991;54(3):534–8.  
    36.    Boirie Y , Dangin M, Gachon P, Vasson M-P, Maubois 
J-L, Beaufrère B. Slow and fast dietary proteins dif-
ferently modulate postprandial protein accretion. 
Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 1997;94(26):14930–5.  
    37.    Frühbeck G. Protein metabolism: slow and fast 
dietary proteins. Nature. 1998;391(6670):843–5.  
      38.    Phillips SM, Tang JE, Moore DR. The role of milk- 
and soy-based protein in support of muscle protein 
synthesis and muscle protein accretion in young and 
elderly persons. J Am Coll Nutr. 2009;28(4):
343–54.  
    39.    Katsanos CS, Chinkes DL, Paddon-Jones D, Zhang 
X-J, Aarsland A, Wolfe RR. Whey protein ingestion 
in elderly persons results in greater muscle protein 
accrual than ingestion of its constituent essential 
amino acid content. Nutr Res. 2008;28(10):651–8.  
    40.    Katsanos CS, Kobayashi H, Shefﬁ  eld-Moore M, 
Aarsland A, Wolfe RR. A high proportion of leucine 
is required for optimal stimulation of the rate of 
muscle protein synthesis by essential amino acids in 
the elderly. Am J Physiol. 2006;291(2):E381–7.  
    41.    Koopman R, Wagenmakers AJ, Manders RJ, Zorenc 
AH, Senden JM, Gorselink M, et al. Combined 
ingestion of protein and free leucine with carbohy-
drate increases postexercise muscle protein synthe-
sis in vivo in male subjects. Am J Physiol. 
2005;288(4):E645–53.  
    42.    Tipton KD, Elliott TA, Ferrando AA, Aarsland AA, 
Wolfe RR. Stimulation of muscle anabolism by 
resistance exercise and ingestion of leucine plus pro-
tein. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2009;34(2):151–61.  
    43.    Dangin M, Boirie Y , Garcia-Rodenas C, Gachon P, 
Fauquant J, Callier P, et al. The digestion rate of 
 protein is an independent regulating factor of 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

152
 postprandial protein retention. Am J Physiol. 
2001;280(2):E340–8.  
    44.    Mahe S, Roos N, Benamouzig R, Davin L, Luengo 
C, Gagnon L, et al. Gastrojejunal kinetics and the 
digestion of [15 N] beta-lactoglobulin and casein in 
humans: the inﬂ  uence of the nature and quantity of 
the protein. Am J Clin Nutr. 1996;63(4):546–52.  
    45.    Wilborn CD, Taylor LW, Outlaw J, Williams L, 
Campbell B, Foster CA, et al. The effects of pre-and 
post-exercise whey vs. casein protein consumption 
on body composition and performance measures in 
collegiate female athletes. J Sports Sci Med. 2013;
12(((1):74.  
    46.   Cribb PJ, Williams AD, Carey MF, Hayes A. The 
effect of whey isolate and resistance training on 
strength, body composition, and plasma glutamine. 
Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2006;16(5).  
    47.    Demling RH, DeSanti L. Effect of a hypocaloric 
diet, increased protein intake and resistance training 
on lean mass gains and fat mass loss in overweight 
police ofﬁ  cers. Ann Nutr Metab. 2000;44(1):21–9.  
    48.    Kerksick CM, Rasmussen CJ, Lancaster SL, Magu 
B, Smith P, Melton C, et al. The effects of protein 
and amino acid supplementation on performance 
and training adaptations during ten weeks of resis-
tance training. J Strength Cond Res. 2006;20(3):
643–53.  
      49.    Driskell JA, Wolinsky I. Energy-yielding macronu-
trients and energy metabolism in sports nutrition. 
New York: CRC Press; 1999.  
    50.    Wilkinson SB, Tarnopolsky MA, MacDonald MJ, 
MacDonald JR, Armstrong D, Phillips 
SM. Consumption of ﬂ  uid skim milk promotes 
greater muscle protein accretion after resistance 
exercise than does consumption of an isonitrogenous 
and isoenergetic soy-protein beverage. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2007;85(4):1031–40.  
     51.    Brown EC, DiSilvestro RA, Babaknia A, Devor 
ST. Soy versus whey protein bars: effects on exercise 
training impact on lean body mass and antioxidant 
status. Nutr J. 2004;3(1):22.  
    52.    Bos C, Metges CC, Gaudichon C, Petzke KJ, Pueyo 
ME, Morens C, et al. Postprandial kinetics of dietary 
amino acids are the main determinant of their metab-
olism after soy or milk protein ingestion in humans. 
J Nutr. 2003;133(5):1308–15.  
    53.    Fouillet H, Mariotti F, Gaudichon C, Bos C, Tomé 
D. Peripheral and splanchnic metabolism of dietary 
nitrogen are differently affected by the protein 
source in humans as assessed by compartmental 
modeling. J Nutr. 2002;132(1):125–33.  
    54.    Kurzer MS. Hormonal effects of soy in premeno-
pausal women and men. J Nutr. 2002;132(3):
570S–3.  
    55.    Pino AM, Valladares LE, Palma MA, Mancilla AM, 
Yáñez M, Albala C. Dietary isoﬂ  avones affect sex 
hormone-binding globulin levels in postmenopausal 
women. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2000;85(8):
2797–800.      56.    Rosenberg Zand RS, Jenkins DJ, Brown TJ, 
Diamandis EP. Flavonoids can block PSA produc-
tion by breast and prostate cancer cell lines. Clin 
Chim Acta. 2002;317(1):17–26.  
    57.    Kreider R, Kleiner S. Protein supplements for ath-
letes: need vs convenience. Your Patient Fitness. 
2000;14(6):12–8.  
    58.    Cox G. Special needs: the vegetarian athlete. In: 
Burke LM, Deakin V , editors. Clinical sports nutri-
tion. Sydney: McGraw-Hill Book; 2000. p. 656–71.  
          59.    Venderley AM, Campbell WW. Vegetarian diets. 
Sports Med. 2006;36(4):293–305.  
        60.    Nieman DC. Physical ﬁ  tness and vegetarian diets: is 
there a relation? Am J Clin Nutr. 1999;70(3):570 s–5s.  
         61.    Barr SI, Rideout CA. Nutritional considerations for 
vegetarian athletes. Nutrition. 2004;20(7):696–703.  
     62.    Craig WJ, Mangels AR. Position of the American 
Dietetic Association: vegetarian diets. J Am Diet 
Assoc. 2009;109(7):1266–82.  
    63.    Young VR, Pellett PL. Plant proteins in relation to 
human protein and amino acid nutrition. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 1994;59(5):1203S–12.  
    64.    Maughan RJ. Creatine supplementation and exercise 
performance. Int J Sport Nutr. 1995;5(2):94–101.  
     65.    Beelen M, Tieland M, Gijsen AP, Vandereyt H, Kies 
AK, Kuipers H, et al. Coingestion of carbohydrate 
and protein hydrolysate stimulates muscle protein 
synthesis during exercise in young men, with no fur-
ther increase during subsequent overnight recovery. 
J Nutr. 2008;138(11):2198–204.  
    66.    Wolfe RR. Effects of amino acid intake on anabolic 
processes. Can J Appl Physiol. 2001;26(S1):S220–7.  
    67.    Bolster DR, Jefferson LS, Kimball SR. Regulation 
of protein synthesis associated with skeletal muscle 
hypertrophy by insulin-, amino acid-and exercise- 
induced signalling. Proc Nutr Soc. 2004;63(02):
351–6.  
    68.    Hillier TA, Fryburg DA, Jahn LA, Barrett 
EJ. Extreme hyperinsulinemia unmasks insulin’s 
effect to stimulate protein synthesis in the human 
forearm. Am J Physiol. 1998;274(6):E1067–74.  
    69.    Kimball S, Jurasinski C, Lawrence J, Jefferson 
L. Insulin stimulates protein synthesis in skeletal 
muscle by enhancing the association of eIF-4E and 
eIF-4G. Am J Physiol. 1997;272(2):C754–9.  
    70.    Biolo G, Fleming RD, Wolfe R. Physiologic hyper-
insulinemia stimulates protein synthesis and 
enhances transport of selected amino acids in human 
skeletal muscle. J Clin Investig. 1995;95(2):811.  
     71.    Biolo G, Williams BD, Fleming R, Wolfe RR. Insulin 
action on muscle protein kinetics and amino acid 
transport during recovery after resistance exercise. 
Diabetes. 1999;48(5):949–57.  
    72.    Gore DC, Wolf SE, Sanford AP, Herndon DN, Wolfe 
RR. Extremity hyperinsulinemia stimulates muscle 
protein synthesis in severely injured patients. Am J 
Physiol. 2004;286(4):E529–34.  
    73.    Denne SC, Liechty EA, Liu Y , Brechtel G, Baron 
AD. Proteolysis in skeletal muscle and whole body K. Levers and K. Vargo

153
in response to euglycemic hyperinsulinemia in nor-
mal adults. Am J Physiol. 1991;261(6 Pt 1):
E809–14.  
    74.    Gelfand RA, Barrett EJ. Effect of physiologic hyper-
insulinemia on skeletal muscle protein synthesis and 
breakdown in man. J Clin Investig. 1987;80(1):1.  
    75.    Heslin M, Newman E, Wolf R, Pisters P, Brennan 
M. Effect of hyperinsulinemia on whole body and 
skeletal muscle leucine carbon kinetics in humans. 
Am J Physiol. 1992;262(6):E911–8.  
    76.    Floyd JC, Fajans SS, Pek S, Thiffault CA, Knopf RF, 
Conn JW. Synergistic effect of essential amino acids 
and glucose upon insulin secretion in man. Diabetes. 
1970;19(2):109–15.  
   77.    Floyd Jr JC, Fajans SS, Conn JW, Knopf RF, Rull 
J. Stimulation of insulin secretion by amino acids. J 
Clin Investig. 1966;45(9):1487.  
     78.    van Loon LJ, Kruijshoop M, Verhagen H, Saris WH, 
Wagenmakers AJ. Ingestion of protein hydrolysate 
and amino acid–carbohydrate mixtures increases 
postexercise plasma insulin responses in men. 
J Nutr. 2000;130(10):2508–13.  
   79.    van Loon LJ, Saris WH, Kruijshoop M, Wagenmakers 
AJ. Maximizing postexercise muscle glycogen syn-
thesis: carbohydrate supplementation and the 
 application of amino acid or protein hydrolysate 
mixtures. Am J Clin Nutr. 2000;72(1):106–11.  
    80.    van Loon LJ, Saris WH, Verhagen H, Wagenmakers 
AJ. Plasma insulin responses after ingestion of dif-
ferent amino acid or protein mixtures with carbohy-
drate. Am J Clin Nutr. 2000;72(1):96–105.  
    81.    Biolo G, Wolfe RR. Insulin action on protein metab-
olism. Bailliere Clin Endocrinol Metab. 
1993;7(4):989–1005.  
     82.    Miller SL, Tipton KD, Chinkes DL, Wolf SE, Wolfe 
RR. Independent and combined effects of amino 
acids and glucose after resistance exercise. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2003;35(3):449–55.  
    83.    Roy B, Tarnopolsky M, MacDougall J, Fowles J, 
Yarasheski K. Effect of glucose supplement timing 
on protein metabolism after resistance training. 
J Appl Physiol. 1997;82(6):1882–8.  
           84.    Aragon AA, Schoenfeld BJ. Nutrient timing revis-
ited: is there a post-exercise anabolic window. J Int 
Soc Sports Nutr. 2013;10(1):5.  
   85.    Staples AW, Burd NA, West D, Currie KD, Atherton 
PJ, Moore DR, et al. Carbohydrate does not augment 
exercise-induced protein accretion versus protein 
alone. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2011;43(7):1154–61.  
     86.   Tipton KD, Phillips SM. Protein and amino acid 
supplements in exercise and sport. van Loon LJC, 
Meeusen R (eds). Dietary protein for muscle hyper-
trophy. Basel, Switzerland: Karger Medical and 
Scientiﬁ  c Publishers; 2013. pp. 73–84.  
      87.    Rasmussen BB, Tipton KD, Miller SL, Wolf SE, Wolfe 
RR. An oral essential amino acid- carbohydrate supple-
ment enhances muscle protein anabolism after resis-
tance exercise. J Appl Physiol. 2000;88(2):386–92.  
    88.    Breen L, Phillips SM. Nutrient interaction for opti-
mal protein anabolism in resistance exercise. Curr 
Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2012;15(3):226–32.       89.    Yang Y , Breen L, Burd NA, Hector AJ, Churchward- 
Venne TA, Josse AR, et al. Resistance exercise 
enhances myoﬁ  brillar protein synthesis with graded 
intakes of whey protein in older men. Br J Nutr. 
2012;108(10):1780–8.  
      90.    Wilson JM, Fitschen PJ, Campbell B, Wilson GJ, 
Zanchi N, Taylor L, et al. International society of 
sports nutrition position stand: beta-hydroxy- 
betamethylbutyrate (HMB). J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2013;10(1):1–14.  
    91.    Burd NA, West DW, Moore DR, Atherton PJ, Staples 
AW, Prior T, et al. Enhanced amino acid sensitivity 
of myoﬁ  brillar protein synthesis persists for up to 
24 h after resistance exercise in young men. J Nutr. 
2011;141(4):568–73.  
    92.    Andersen LL, Tufekovic G, Zebis MK, Crameri RM, 
Verlaan G, Kjær M, et al. The effect of resistance 
training combined with timed ingestion of protein on 
muscle ﬁ  ber size and muscle strength. Metabolism. 
2005;54(2):151–6.  
   93.   Esmarck B, Andersen J, Olsen S, Richter E, Mizuno 
M, Kjaer M. Timing of post-exercise protein intake 
is important for muscle hypertrophy with resistance 
training in elderly humans. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 
2002;12(1):60.  
   94.    Josse AR, Tang JE, Tarnopolsky MA, Phillips 
SM. Body composition and strength changes in 
women with milk and resistance exercise. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2010;42(6):1122–30.  
    95.    Phillips SM, Hartman JW, Wilkinson SB. Dietary 
protein to support anabolism with resistance exercise 
in young men. J Am Coll Nutr. 2005;24(2):134S–9.  
    96.    Poole C, Wilborn C, Taylor L, Kerksick C. The role 
of post-exercise nutrient administration on muscle 
protein synthesis and glycogen synthesis. J Sports 
Sci Med. 2010;9(3):354.  
     97.    Tipton KD, Rasmussen BB, Miller SL, Wolf SE, 
Owens-Stovall SK, Petrini BE, et al. Timing of 
amino acid-carbohydrate ingestion alters anabolic 
response of muscle to resistance exercise. Am J 
Physiol. 2001;281(2):E197–206.  
    98.    Tipton KD, Elliott TA, Cree MG, Aarsland AA, 
Sanford AP, Wolfe RR. Stimulation of net muscle 
protein synthesis by whey protein ingestion before 
and after exercise. Am J Physiol. 2007;292(1):
E71–6.  
     99.    Kumar V , Atherton P, Smith K, Rennie MJ. Human 
muscle protein synthesis and breakdown during and 
after exercise. J Appl Physiol. 2009;106(6):
2026–39.  
    100.    Zawadzki K, Yaspelkis B, Ivy J. Carbohydrate- 
protein complex increases the rate of muscle glyco-
gen storage after exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1992;
72(5):1854–9.  
    101.    Greenhaff PL, Karagounis L, Peirce N, Simpson EJ, 
Hazell M, Layﬁ  eld R, et al. Disassociation between 
the effects of amino acids and insulin on signaling, 
ubiquitin ligases, and protein turnover in human 
muscle. Am J Physiol. 2008;295(3):E595–604.  
    102.    Rennie MJ, Bohé J, Smith K, Wackerhage H, 
Greenhaff P. Branched-chain amino acids as fuels 7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

154
and anabolic signals in human muscle. J Nutr. 
2006;136(1):264S–8.  
    103.    Power O, Hallihan A, Jakeman P. Human insulinotro-
pic response to oral ingestion of native and hydrolysed 
whey protein. Amino Acids. 2009;37(2):333–9.  
    104.    Levenhagen DK, Gresham JD, Carlson MG, Maron 
DJ, Borel MJ, Flakoll PJ. Postexercise nutrient 
intake timing in humans is critical to recovery of leg 
glucose and protein homeostasis. Am J Physiol. 
2001;280(6):E982–93.  
    105.    Staples AW, Burd NA, West D, Currie KD, Atherton 
PJ, Moore DR, et al. Carbohydrate does not augment 
exercise-induced protein accretion versus protein 
alone. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2011;43(7):1154–61.  
     106.    Kreider RB. Effects of creatine supplementation on 
performance and training adaptations. Mol Cell 
Biochem. 2003;244(1–2):89–94.  
      107.    Chromiak JA, Antonio J. Use of amino acids as 
growth hormone-releasing agents by athletes. 
Nutrition. 2002;18(7):657–61.  
    108.    Kreider RB, Leutholtz BC, Greenwood M. Creatine. 
Wolinsky I, Driskel J (eds). Nutritional ergogenic 
aids. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press; 2004. pp. 81–104.  
     109.    Green A, Hultman E, Macdonald I, Sewell D, 
Greenhaff P. Carbohydrate ingestion augments skel-
etal muscle creatine accumulation during creatine 
supplementation in humans. Am J Physiol. 
1996;271(5):E821–6.  
   110.   Greenhaff P, editor. Muscle creatine loading in 
humans: procedures and functional and metabolic 
effects. 6th international conference on Guanidino 
compounds in biology and medicine. Cincinnati, 
OH; 2001.  
    111.    Steenge G, Simpson E, Greenhaff P. Protein-and 
carbohydrate-induced augmentation of whole body 
creatine retention in humans. J Appl Physiol. 
2000;89(3):1165–71.  
    112.    Hultman E, Soderlund K, Timmons J, Cederblad G, 
Greenhaff P. Muscle creatine loading in men. J Appl 
Physiol. 1996;81(1):232–7.  
    113.    Burke DG, Smith-Palmer T, Holt LE, Head B, 
Chilibeck PD. The effect of 7 days of creatine sup-
plementation on 24-hour urinary creatine excretion. 
J Strength Cond Res. 2001;15(1):59–62.  
    114.    Williams MH, Kreider RB, Branch JD. Creatine: the 
power supplement. Champaign: Human Kinetics; 
1999.  
       115.    Kreider RB, Ferreira M, Wilson M, Grindstaff P, Plisk 
S, Reinardy J, et al. Effects of creatine supplementa-
tion on body composition, strength, and sprint perfor-
mance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1998;30:73–82.  
      116.    Earnest CP, Snell P, Rodriguez R, Almada A, 
Mitchell T. The effect of creatine monohydrate 
ingestion on anaerobic power indices, muscular 
strength and body composition. Acta Physiol Scand. 
1995;153(2):207.  
     117.    Antonio J, Stout JR. Sports supplements. 
Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2001.  
    118.    Kreider RB, Klesges R, Harmon K, Grindstaff P, 
Ramsey L, Bullen D, et al. Effects of ingesting sup-plements designed to promote lean tissue accretion 
on body composition during resistance training. Int J 
Sport Nutr. 1996;6:234–46.  
    119.    Stout J, Eckerson J, Noonan D, Moore G, Cullen 
D. Effects of 8 weeks of creatine supplementation on 
exercise performance and fat-free weight in football 
players during training. Nutr Res. 1999;19(2):
217–25.  
    120.    Stout J, Eckerson J, Noonan D, Moore G, Cullen 
D. The effects of a supplement designed to augment 
creatine uptake on exercise performance and fat-free 
mass in football players 1429. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
1997;29(5):251.  
     121.    Vandenberghe K, Goris M, Van Hecke P, Van 
Leemputte M, Vangerven L, Hespel P. Long-term 
creatine intake is beneﬁ  cial to muscle performance 
during resistance training. J Appl Physiol. 1997;
83(6):2055–63.  
    122.    Mihic S, MacDonald JR, McKenzie S, Tarnopolsky 
MA. Acute creatine loading increases fat-free mass, 
but does not affect blood pressure, plasma creati-
nine, or CK activity in men and women. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2000;32(2):291–6.  
    123.    Bessman S, Savabi F. The role of the phosphocre-
atine energy shuttle in exercise and muscle hypertro-
phy. San Diego, CA: Academic; 1988. p. 185–98.  
     124.    V olek JS, Duncan ND, Mazzetti SA, Staron RS, 
Putukian M, Gomez A, et al. Performance and mus-
cle ﬁ ber adaptations to creatine supplementation and 
heavy resistance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
1999;31:1147–56.  
     125.    Willoughby DS, Rosene J. Effects of oral creatine and 
resistance training on myosin heavy chain expression. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2001;33(10):1674–81.  
     126.    Willoughby DS, Rosene JM. Effects of oral creatine 
and resistance training on myogenic regulatory factor 
expression. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2003;35(6):923–9.  
    127.    Lowe DA, Lund T, Alway SE. Hypertrophy- 
stimulated myogenic regulatory factor mRNA 
increases are attenuated in fast muscle of aged 
quails. Am J Physiol. 1998;275(1):C155–62.  
    128.    Schultz E, McCormick KM. Skeletal muscle satel-
lite cells. Rev Physiol Biochem Pharmacol. 
1994;V olume 123:p. 213–57. Springer.  
    129.    Hawke TJ. Muscle stem cells and exercise training. 
Exerc Sport Sci Rev. 2005;33(2):63–8.  
     130.    Olsen S, Aagaard P, Kadi F, Tufekovic G, Verney J, 
Olesen JL, et al. Creatine supplementation augments 
the increase in satellite cell and myonuclei number 
in human skeletal muscle induced by strength train-
ing. J Physiol. 2006;573(2):525–34.  
    131.    Vingren JL, Kraemer WJ, Ratamess NA, Anderson 
JM, V olek JS, Maresh CM. Testosterone physiology 
in resistance exercise and training. Sports Med. 
2010;40(12):1037–53.  
     132.    Antonio J, Stout JR. Supplements for strength-power 
athletes. Champaign: Human Kinetics; 2002.  
     133.    Lukaski HC. Magnesium, zinc, and chromium nutri-
ture and physical activity. Am J Clin Nutr. 
2000;72(2):585 s–93s.  K. Levers and K. Vargo

155
    134.    Shils ME, Shike M. Modern nutrition in health and 
disease. Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & 
Wilkins; 2006.  
    135.    Buchman AL, Keen C, Commisso J, Killip D, Ou 
C-N, Rognerud CL, et al. The effect of a marathon 
run on plasma and urine mineral and metal concen-
trations. J Am Coll Nutr. 1998;17(2):124–7.  
   136.    Kikukawa A, Kobayashi A. Changes in urinary zinc 
and copper with strenuous physical exercise. Aviat 
Space Environ Med. 2002;73(10):991–5.  
   137.    Lukaski HC. Micronutrients (magnesium, zinc, and 
copper): are mineral supplements needed for ath-
letes? Int J Sport Nutr. 1995;5:S74-S.  
    138.    Nielsen FH, Lukaski HC. Update on the relationship 
between magnesium and exercise. Magnes Res. 
2006;19(3):180–9.  
    139.   Brilla L, Conte V . Effects of a novel zinc-magnesium 
formulation on hormones and strength. J Exerc 
Physiol Online. 2000;3(4).  
    140.    Koehler K, Parr M, Geyer H, Mester J, Schänzer 
W. Serum testosterone and urinary excretion of ste-
roid hormone metabolites after administration of a 
high-dose zinc supplement. Eur J Clin Nutr. 
2009;63(1):65–70.  
    141.    Wilborn CD, Kerksick CM, Campbell BI, Taylor 
LW, Marcello BM, Rasmussen CJ, et al. Effects of 
zinc magnesium aspartate (ZMA) supplementation 
on training adaptations and markers of anabolism 
and catabolism. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2004;1(2):
12–20.  
     142.    Qureshi A, Naughton DP, Petroczi A. A systematic 
review on the herbal extract  Tribulus terrestris   and 
the roots of its putative aphrodisiac and performance 
enhancing effect. J Diet Suppl. 2014;11(1):64–79.  
    143.    Neychev VK, Mitev VI. The aphrodisiac herb 
 Tribulus terrestris   does not inﬂ  uence the androgen 
production in young men. J Ethnopharmacol. 2005;
101(1):319–23.  
     144.    Rogerson S, Riches CJ, Jennings C, Weatherby RP, 
Meir RA, Marshall-Gradisnik SM. The effect of ﬁ  ve 
weeks of  Tribulus terrestris   supplementation on 
muscle strength and body composition during pre-
season training in elite rugby league players. J 
Strength Cond Res. 2007;21(2):348–53.  
    145.    West D, Phillips SM. Anabolic processes in human 
skeletal muscle: restoring the identities of growth 
hormone and testosterone. Phys Sports Med. 
2010;38(3):97–104.  
    146.   Ahmad AM, Hopkins MT, Thomas J, Ibrahim H, 
Fraser WD, V ora JP. Body composition and quality 
of life in adults with growth hormone deﬁ  ciency; 
effects of low-dose growth hormone replacement. 
Clin Endocrinol. 2001;54(6):709–17.  
      147.   Alba-Roth J, Müller OA, Schopohl J, Werder 
KV . Arginine stimulates growth hormone secretion 
by suppressing endogenous somatostatin secretion. 
J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1988;67(6):1186–9.  
   148.    Fernholm R, Bramnert M, Hägg E, Hilding A, 
Baylink DJ, Mohan S, et al. Growth hormone 
replacement therapy improves body composition and increases bone metabolism in elderly patients 
with pituitary disease. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 
2000;85(11):4104–12.  
     149.    Merimee TJ, Rabinowitz D, Riggs L, Burgess JA, 
Rimoin DL, McKusick V A. Plasma growth hormone 
after arginine infusion: clinical experiences. N Engl 
J Med. 1967;276(8):434–9.  
    150.    Thorén M, Hilding A, Baxter RC, Degerblad M, 
Wivall-Helleryd I-L, Hall K. Serum insulin-like 
growth factor I (IGF-I), IGF-binding protein-1 and- 
3, and the acid-labile subunit as serum markers of 
body composition during growth hormone (GH) 
therapy in adults with GH deﬁ  ciency 1. J Clin 
Endocrinol Metab. 1997;82(1):223–8.  
     151.    Brennan BP, Kanayama G, Hudson JI, Pope Jr 
HG. Human growth hormone abuse in male weight-
lifters. Am J Addict. 2011;20(1):9–13.  
    152.    Schaefer A, Piquard F, Geny B, Doutreleau S, 
Lampert E, Mettauer B, et al. L-arginine reduces 
exercise-induced increase in plasma lactate and 
ammonia. Int J Sports Med. 2002;23(06):403–7.  
     153.    Zajac A, Poprzecki S, Zebrowska A, Chalimoniuk 
M, Langfort J. Arginine and ornithine supplementa-
tion increases growth hormone and insulin-like 
growth factor-1 serum levels after heavy-resistance 
exercise in strength-trained athletes. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2010;24(4):1082–90.  
    154.    Isidori A, Lo Monaco A, Cappa M. A study of 
growth hormone release in man after oral adminis-
tration of amino acids. Curr Med Res Opin. 1981;
7(7):475–81.  
    155.    Besset A, Bonardet A, Rondouin G, Descomps B, 
Passouant P. Increase in sleep related GH and Prl secre-
tion after chronic arginine aspartate administration in 
man. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1982;99(1):18–23.  
    156.    Colombani P, Bitzi R, Frey-Rindova P, Frey W, 
Arnold M, Langhans W, et al. Chronic arginine 
aspartate supplementation in runners reduces total 
plasma amino acid level at rest and during a mara-
thon run. Eur J Nutr. 1999;38(6):263–70.  
     157.    Alvares TS, Conte-Junior CA, Silva JT, Paschoalin 
VMF. L-arginine does not improve biochemical and 
hormonal response in trained runners after 4 weeks 
of supplementation. Nutr Res. 2014;34(1):31–9.  
    158.    Corpas E, Blackman MR, Roberson R, Scholﬁ  eld D, 
Harman SM. Oral arginine-lysine does not increase 
growth hormone or insulin-like growth factor-I in 
old men. J Gerontol. 1993;48(4):M128-M.  
    159.   da Silva DVT, Conte-Junior CA, Paschoalin VMF, 
da Silveira AT. Hormonal response to L-arginine 
supplementation in physically active individuals. 
Food Nutr Res. 2014;58.  
    160.    Forbes SC, Harber V , Bell GJ. Oral L-arginine prior 
to resistance exercise blunts growth hormone in 
strength trained males. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2013;24(2):236–44.  
     161.    Forbes SC, Harber V , Bell GJ. The acute effects of 
L-arginine on hormonal and metabolic responses 
during submaximal exercise in trained cyclists. Int J 
Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2013;23:369–77.  7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

156
    162.    Nassar E, Mulligan C, Taylor L, Kerksick C, 
Galbreath M, Greenwood M, et al. Effects of a single 
dose of N-Acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine (Melatonin) 
and resistance exercise on the growth hormone/
IGF-1 axis in young males and females. J Int Soc 
Sports Nutr. 2007;4(1):1–13.  
    163.    Meeking D, Wallace J, Cuneo R, Forsling M, 
Russell-Jones D. Exercise-induced GH secretion is 
enhanced by the oral ingestion of melatonin in 
healthy adult male subjects. Eur J Endocrinol. 
1999;141(1):22–6.  
    164.    Mero AA, Vähälummukka M, Hulmi JJ, Kallio P, 
von Wright A. Effects of resistance exercise session 
after oral ingestion of melatonin on physiological 
and performance responses of adult men. Eur J Appl 
Physiol. 2006;96(6):729–39.  
    165.    Laron Z. Somatomedin-1 (recombinant insulin-like 
growth factor-1). BioDrugs. 1999;11(1):55–70.  
    166.    Laron Z. Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1): a 
growth hormone. Mol Pathol. 2001;54(5):311–6.  
    167.   Spangenburg EE. IGF-I isoforms and ageing skeletal 
muscle: an ‘unresponsive’ hypertrophy agent? J 
Physiol. 2003;547((1):2.  
     168.    Mero A, Kähkönen J, Nykänen T, Parviainen T, 
Jokinen I, Takala T, et al. IGF-I, IgA, and IgG 
responses to bovine colostrum supplementation dur-
ing training. J Appl Physiol. 2002;93(2):732–9.  
    169.    Mero A, Miikkulainen H, Riski J, Pakkanen R, Aalto 
J, Takala T. Effects of bovine colostrum supplemen-
tation on serum IGF-I, IgG, hormone, and saliva IgA 
during training. J Appl Physiol. 1997;83(4):
1144–51.  
    170.    Deldicque L, Louis M, Theisen D, Nielens H, 
Dehoux M, Thissen J-P, et al. Increased IGF mRNA 
in human skeletal muscle after creatine supplemen-
tation. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2005;37(5):731–6.  
    171.    Burke DG, Candow DG, Chilibeck PD, MacNeil 
LG, Roy BD, Tarnopolsky MA, et al. Effect of cre-
atine supplementation and resistance-exercise train-
ing on muscle insulin-like growth factor in young 
adults. Int J Sport Nutr. 2008;18(4):389.  
    172.    Ameri P, Giusti A, Boschetti M, Bovio M, Teti C, 
Leoncini G, et al. Vitamin D increases circulating 
IGF1 in adults: potential implication for the treat-
ment of GH deﬁ  ciency. Eur J Endocrinol. 
2013;169(6):767–72.  
    173.    Fabian C. The what, why and how of aromatase 
inhibitors: hormonal agents for treatment and pre-
vention of breast cancer. Int J Clin Pract. 2007;
61(12):2051–63.  
    174.    Fryburg DA, Barrett EJ, Louard RJ, Gelfand 
RA. Effect of starvation on human muscle protein 
metabolism and its response to insulin. Am J Physiol. 
1990;259(4):E477–82.  
    175.    Curthoys NP, Watford M. Regulation of glutaminase 
activity and glutamine metabolism. Annu Rev Nutr. 
1995;15(1):133–59.  
    176.    Blomstrand E, Essén-Gustavsson B. Changes in 
amino acid concentration in plasma and type I and type II ﬁ  bres during resistance exercise and recovery 
in human subjects. Amino Acids. 2009;37(4):
629–36.  
    177.    Gleeson M, Walsh N, Blannin A, Robson P, Cook L, 
Donnelly AE, et al. The effect of severe eccentric 
exercise-induced muscle damage on plasma elas-
tase, glutamine and zinc concentrations. Eur J Appl 
Physiol Occup Physiol. 1998;77(6):543–6.  
    178.    Street B, Byrne C, Eston R. Glutamine supplementa-
tion in recovery from eccentric exercise attenuates 
strength loss and muscle soreness. J Exerc Sci 
Fitness. 2011;9(2):116–22.  
    179.    Jówko E, Ostaszewski P, Jank M, Sacharuk J, 
Zieniewicz A, Wilczak J, et al. Creatine and 
β-hydroxy- β-methylbutyrate (HMB) additively 
increase lean body mass and muscle strength during 
a weight-training program. Nutrition. 2001;17(7):
558–66.  
    180.    Knitter A, Panton L, Rathmacher J, Petersen A, 
Sharp R. Effects of β-hydroxy- β-methylbutyrate on 
muscle damage after a prolonged run. J Appl Physiol. 
2000;89(4):1340–4.  
    181.    Pellegrinotti I, Cesar MC, Rochelle M, Rochelle SA, 
Borin J, Rosa R, et al. Effect of oral glutamine sup-
plementation on exercise performance in endurance 
swimmers. Pensar a Prática. 2012;15(2):317–30.  
    182.    Ramallo B, Charro MA, Foschini D, Prestes J, 
Pithon-Curi T, Evangelista A, et al. ACUTE gluta-
mine supplementation does not affect muscle dam-
age proﬁ  le after resistance training. Int J Sports Sci. 
2013;3(1):4–9.  
      183.    Nissen S, Sharp R, Ray M, Rathmacher J, Rice D, 
Fuller J, et al. Effect of leucine metabolite β-hydroxy-  
β-methylbutyrate on muscle metabolism during 
resistance-exercise training. J Appl Physiol. 
1996;81(5):2095–104.  
    184.    Davis G, Lowery RP, Duncan N, Sikorski E, 
Rathmacher J, Baier S, et al. The effects of beta-
hydoxy- beta-methylbutyrate free acid supplemen-
tation on muscle damage, hormonal status, and 
performance following a high volume 2-week 
overreaching cycle. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2012;9 
Suppl 1:4.  
     185.   Van Someren KA, Edwards AJ, Howatson G. 
Supplementation with B-hydroxy-B- methylbutyrate 
(HMB) and a-ketoisocaproic acid (KIC) reduces 
signs and symptoms of exercise- induced muscle 
damage in man. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2005;15(4).  
    186.   Lowery RP, Joy JM, Rathmacher JA, Baier SM, 
Fuller Jr J, Shelley M, et al. Interaction of beta-
hydroxy- beta-methylbutyrate free acid (HMB-FA) 
and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) on muscle mass, 
strength, and power in resistance trained individuals. 
J Strength Cond Res. 2014.  
    187.    Dunsmore K, Lowery RP, Duncan N, Davis G, 
Rathmacher J, Baier S, et al. Effects of 12 weeks of 
beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate free acid Gel 
supplementation on muscle mass, strength, and K. Levers and K. Vargo

157
power in resistance trained individuals. J Int Soc 
Sports Nutr. 2012;9 Suppl 1:5.  
    188.    Lowery RP, Joy J, Rathmacher JA, Baier SM, Fuller 
JC, Jäger R, et al. Effects of 12 weeks of beta-
hydroxy- beta-methylbutyrate free acid, adenosine 
triphosphate, or a combination on muscle mass, 
strength, and power in resistance trained individuals. 
J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2013;10 Suppl 1:17.  
    189.    Stamler JS, Meissner G. Physiology of nitric oxide in 
skeletal muscle. Physiol Rev. 2001;81(1):209–37.  
    190.    KINGWELL BA. Nitric oxide-mediated metabolic 
regulation during exercise: effects of training in 
health and cardiovascular disease. FASEB J. 2000;
14(12):1685–96.  
    191.    Moncada S, Higgs E, Hodson H, Knowles R, López- 
Jaramillo P, McCall T, et al. The L-arginine: nitric 
oxide pathway. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1991;17:S1.  
    192.    Campbell B, Roberts M, Kerksick C, Wilborn C, 
Marcello B, Taylor L, et al. Pharmacokinetics, 
safety, and effects on exercise performance of 
L-arginine α-ketoglutarate in trained adult men. 
Nutrition. 2006;22(9):872–81.  
    193.    Reid J, Skelton G, Clark M, Boucher A, Willoughby 
DS. Effects of 7 days of arginine-alpha-ketoglutarate 
supplementation using NO2 Platinum on brachial 
artery blood ﬂ  ow and the levels of plasma L-arginine, 
nitric oxide, and eNOS after resistance exercise. J Int 
Soc Sports Nutr. 2010;7 Suppl 1:22.  
    194.    Álvares TS, Conte Jr CA, Paschoalin VMF, Silva JT, 
Meirelles CM, Bhambhani YN, 1, et al. Acute 
l- arginine supplementation increases muscle blood volume but not strength performance. Appl Physiol 
Nutr Metab. 2012;37(1):115–26.  
    195.    Willoughby DS, Boucher T, Reid J, Skelton G, Clark 
M. Effects of 7 days of arginine-alpha-ketoglutarate 
supplementation on blood ﬂ  ow, plasma L-arginine, 
nitric oxide metabolites, and asymmetric dimethyl 
arginine after resistance exercise. Int J Sports Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2011;21(4):291.  
    196.    Sureda A, Córdova A, Ferrer MD, Pérez G, Tur JA, 
Pons A. L-citrulline-malate inﬂ  uence over branched 
chain amino acid utilization during exercise. Eur J 
Appl Physiol. 2010;110(2):341–51.  
    197.   Schwedhelm E, Maas R, Freese R, Jung D, Lukacs 
Z, Jambrecina A, et al. Pharmacokinetic and phar-
macodynamic properties of oral L-citrulline and 
L-arginine: impact on nitric oxide metabolism. Br J 
Clin Pharmacol. 2008;65(1):51–9.  
    198.    Ochiai M, Hayashi T, Morita M, Ina K, Maeda M, 
Watanabe F, et al. Short-term effects of l-citrulline 
supplementation on arterial stiffness in middle-aged 
men. Int J Cardiol. 2012;155(2):257–61.  
    199.    Hecker M, Sessa WC, Harris HJ, Anggård E, Vane 
JR. The metabolism of L-arginine and its signiﬁ  -
cance for the biosynthesis of endothelium-derived 
relaxing factor: cultured endothelial cells recycle 
L-citrulline to L-arginine. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 
1990;87(21):8612–6.  
    200.    Takeda K, Machida M, Kohara A, Omi N, Takemasa 
T. Effects of citrulline supplementation on fatigue 
and exercise performance in mice. J Nutr Sci 
Vitaminol. 2011;57(3):246–50.      7 Building Muscle Mass: Physiology, Nutrition, and Supplementation

159 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_8      Weight Loss Nutritional 
Supplements 
           Joan     M.     Eckerson     
    Abstract  
  Obesity is a major public health concern in the United States and is related 
to a considerable number of chronic diseases including hypertension, type 
2 diabetes, stroke, heart disease, degenerative joint disease, and several 
types of cancer. Because of the medical implications and health-care costs 
associated with obesity, as well as the negative social and psychological 
impacts, many individuals turn to nonprescription nutritional weight loss 
supplements hoping for a quick ﬁ  x, and the weight loss industry has 
responded by offering a variety of products that generates billions of dol-
lars each year in sales. 
 Most nutritional weight loss supplements are purported to work by 
increasing energy expenditure, modulating carbohydrate or fat metabolism, 
increasing satiety, or blocking fat or carbohydrate absorption. To review the 
literally hundreds of nutritional weight loss supplements available on the 
market today is well beyond the scope of this chapter. Therefore, several of 
the most commonly used supplements were selected for critical review, and 
practical recommendations are provided based upon the ﬁ  ndings of well-
controlled, randomized clinical trials that examined their efﬁ  cacy. 
 In the majority of cases, the nutritional supplements reviewed either 
elicited no clinically meaningful effect (i.e., ≥5 % change in body weight) 
or resulted in changes in body weight and composition that are similar to 
that which occurs through a restricted diet and exercise program. There is 
evidence to suggest that herbal forms of ephedrine, such as ma huang, 
combined with caffeine or caffeine and aspirin (i.e., ECA stack) are effec-
tive for inducing moderate weight loss in overweight adults. However, 
because of the ban on ephedra, it is not practical to recommend it for 
        J.  M.   Eckerson ,  PhD, CSCS, FACSM, FNSCA      ( *) 
  Department of Exercise Science and Pre-Health 
Professions ,  Creighton University , 
  2500 California Plaza ,  Omaha ,  NE   68178 ,  USA   
 e-mail: joaneckerson@creighton.edu    8

160
weight loss, and ephedra-free supplements, such as bitter orange, do not 
appear to be as effective. Green bean coffee extract, capsaicinoids, and 
white kidney bean extract ( Phaseolus vulgaris  ) do appear to hold some 
promise as possible adjuvant treatments for weight loss; however, most 
dietary weight loss supplements used alone or in combination are largely 
ineffective.  
  Keywords  
  Dietary supplements   •   Ephedra   •   Obesity   •   Overweight   •   Complementary 
medicine   •   Alternative medicine   •   Herbal medicine   •   Chromium   •   Calcium   
•   Chitosan   •   Pyruvate   •   Garcinia   •   Psyllium   •    Citrus aurantium     •   Bitter 
orange   •   Guarana   •   Herbal caffeine   •   Green tea   •   Conjugated linoleic acid   
•   Capsaicinoid   •   Green coffee bean extract   •    Phaseolus vulgaris     •  
  Glucomannan  
8.1         Introduction 
    Obesity is a major public health concern in the 
United States and is related to a considerable 
number of chronic diseases including hyperten-
sion, type 2 diabetes, stroke, heart disease, degen-
erative joint disease, and several types of cancer 
[ 1 ]. According to data from the 2011 to 2012 
National Health and Nutrition Examination 
Survey released by the Centers for Disease 
Control, 68.5 % of adults in the United States 
were overweight or obese, 34.9 % were obese 
(BMI ≥ 30 kg·m 2 ), and 6.4 % were extremely 
obese (grade 3 obesity = BMI ≥ 40 kg·m 2 ). 
Because of the medical implications and health- 
care costs associated with obesity, as well as the 
negative social and psychological impacts, many 
individuals turn to nonprescription nutritional 
weight loss supplements hoping for a quick ﬁ  x or 
the answer to their unsuccessful attempts at diet-
ing and exercise to lose weight. In fact, it has 
been suggested that many individuals prefer 
dietary supplements and prescription weight loss 
drugs to making healthier lifestyle changes [ 2 ]. 
 The weight loss industry has responded to the 
rising rates of obesity and generates billions of 
dollars each year through the sale of a variety of 
products and commercial weight loss businesses. 
In 2014, Americans spent over $60 billion on 
books, exercise videos, low-calorie foods and drinks, sugar substitutes, medical treatments, 
commercial weight loss centers, bariatric sur-
gery, and nutritional supplements to assist in their 
battle to lose weight [ 3 ]. Retail sales of over-the- 
counter (OTC) nutritional weight loss supple-
ments alone were estimated to be more than 
$1.45 billion in 2013 [ 3 ]. 
 Given that obesity is a growing public health 
concern and that the use of OTC nutritional 
weight loss supplements by obese and overweight 
individuals is commonplace, it is important for 
health professionals to understand the physiologi-
cal mechanisms by which these products are pur-
ported to result in weight loss, as well as their 
safety and efﬁ  cacy. Most OTC weight loss sup-
plements are claimed to work by increasing 
energy expenditure, modulating carbohydrate or 
fat metabolism, increasing satiety (feeling of full-
ness), or blocking fat or carbohydrate absorption.  
8.2     Nutritional Supplements 
that Increase Energy 
Expenditure 
8.2.1     Ephedra Alkaloids and Herbal 
Caffeine 
 Ephedra, also known as  ma huang  , is probably 
one of the most commonly recognized nutritional 
supplements used for weight loss and was widely J.M. Eckerson

161
used in the 1990s. Because of several safety 
 concerns including hypertension, arrhythmias, 
heart attack, stroke, and even death, the Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) removed ephedra 
products from the US market in 2004, since its 
risk of use was deemed greater than its beneﬁ  ts 
on weight loss. Ephedra is derived from a shrub 
that is native to China ( Ephedra sinica  ) and has 
been used for over 5,000 years as a natural treat-
ment for asthma and other conditions [ 4 ]. The 
ephedrine alkaloids present in the plant contain 
sympathomimetic compounds (i.e., central ner-
vous system (CNS) stimulants) and are a source 
of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, which are 
used in many decongestants and cold medicines. 
The history of ephedrine as a weight loss supple-
ment goes back to 1972 when a Danish physician 
in Elsinore, Denmark, who was treating his asth-
matic patients with a compound that contained 
ephedrine and caffeine noticed that they were 
experiencing unintentional weight loss. His com-
pound became known as the “Elsinore Pill,” and, 
by 1977, it was being used by over 70,000 
patients [ 5 ]. Before they were taken off the mar-
ket in 2004, dietary supplements that contained 
ephedrine alkaloids were regulated by the 
DSHEA; however, ephedrine and pseudoephed-
rine are regulated by the government as drugs. 
 Ephedrine and norephedrine are analogs of 
methamphetamine and amphetamine, respec-
tively, and, therefore, are potent CNS stimulants 
that act as both alpha- and beta-adrenergic ago-
nists and release epinephrine from sympathetic 
neurons [ 6 ]. The action of ephedra on adrenergic 
receptors increases thermogenesis and suppresses 
hunger which, in turn, promotes weight loss [ 7 ]. 
In animal studies, it has been shown that ephed-
rine stimulates thermogenesis in brown adipose 
tissue via the activation of beta-receptors; how-
ever, because humans have very little brown adi-
pose, it is believed that thermogenesis primarily 
occurs in the skeletal muscle [ 4 ]. 
 A meta-analysis by Shekelle et al. [ 8 ] that 
examined the efﬁ  cacy and safety of ephedra- and 
ephedrine-containing products found that they 
have modest short-term beneﬁ  ts (up to 6 months) 
and are associated with an increased risk of expe-
riencing an adverse event. The ﬁ  ndings of the meta-analysis showed that ephedra resulted in 
weight loss that was only 0.9 kg (~2 lb) more per 
month compared to placebo, but led to a 2.2–3.6 
fold increase in the odds of experiencing psychi-
atric, autonomic, or gastrointestinal problems, as 
well as arrhythmias of the heart. 
 In an effort to maximize fat burning, ephed-
rine has been used in combination with caffeine 
and aspirin, which is often referred to as an ECA 
stack. It is believed that when these three com-
pounds are taken together (recommended ratio: 
60 mg ephedrine/200 mg caffeine/300 mg aspi-
rin), it results in an even greater thermogenic 
effect compared to ephedra alone and may be 
more effective for inducing weight loss [ 9 ,  10 ]. 
Herbal equivalents that are often used as a substi-
tute for caffeine in nutritional weight loss supple-
ments include guarana, kola nut, yerba mate, 
green tea, and yohimbe. Similarly, willow bark is 
often used in place of aspirin. Hydroxycut™ is an 
example of a well-known OTC product that con-
tained an ECA stack (ma huang, guarana, and 
willow bark) prior to the FDA ban in 2004. 
Interestingly, Hydroxycut™ has been reformu-
lated at least twice since that time and, in 2009, 
recalled several of their products as a result of an 
FDA warning to consumers to stop using their 
products after they received 23 reports of serious 
liver-related health issues [ 11 ]. 
 There is some evidence to suggest that the 
combination of ephedra with caffeine and/or 
aspirin (or their herbal constituents) may, indeed, 
be more effective for inducing weight loss than 
ephedra alone. In his extensive review, Greenway 
[ 5 ] examined the safety and efﬁ  cacy of ephedrine 
and caffeine (EC) and reported that the combina-
tion was as effective as some prescription weight 
loss drugs and was associated with fewer side 
effects. In the studies reviewed by Greenway [ 5 ], 
the acute side effects for EC were considered 
mild and transient, and following continuous 
treatment for 4–12 weeks, the reported side 
effects were not signiﬁ  cantly different from pla-
cebo. As a result, Greenway [ 5 ] suggested that 
the beneﬁ  ts of EC outweigh the associated risks 
and pointed out that many of the serious adverse 
events that have been reported in the literature are 
voluntary case reports that have no placebo (PL) 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

162
or control (CTRL) groups for comparison. 
Therefore, in his opinion [ 5 ], the argument for 
removing herbal products containing ephedrine 
was somewhat unfounded. Hutchins [ 12 ] also 
indicated that many of the ephedra alkaloid- 
related deaths reported in the literature occurred 
in individuals with preexisting cardiovascular 
conditions or risks, and, therefore, the dangers 
associated with ephedra use in healthy individu-
als may be widely speculative. In addition, 
Dulloo [ 13 ] suggested that mixtures of ephedrine 
and caffeine may offer a viable and cost-effective 
approach to the treatment of obesity and has rec-
ommended that more large-scale clinical trials be 
conducted to gain a better understanding of the 
risks and beneﬁ  ts associated with the combina-
tion of ephedrine and caffeine. 
 In two separate studies, Boozer et al. [ 4 ,  14 ] 
also reported that ma huang (herbal ephedra) 
combined with either guarana [ 4 ] or kola nuts 
[ 14 ] was more effective for weight loss in over-
weight men and women compared to PL and 
resulted in no adverse events and minimal side 
effects. In the study that examined the effects of 
ma huang and guarana [ 4 ], the treatment was a 
commercial herbal mixture called 
Metabolife-356 ® , which contained an equivalent 
of 72 mg of ephedrine and 240 mg of caffeine. 
Following 8 weeks of supplementation, the treat-
ment group lost signiﬁ  cantly more body weight 
(−4.0 ± 3.4 kg) and percent body fat (−2.1 ± 3.0 % 
fat) vs. the PL group (−0.8 ± 2.4 kg and 0.2 ± 2.3 % 
fat, respectively). In the other study by Boozer 
et al. [ 14 ] that examined the effects of ma huang 
and kola nut on weight loss, the herbal prepara-
tion was equivalent to 90 mg of ephedrine and 
192 mg of caffeine and, when compared to PL, 
resulted in signiﬁ  cant decreases in body weight 
(−5.3 ± 5.0 vs. −2.6 ± 3.2 kg) and fat weight 
(−4.3 ± 3.3 vs. −2.7 ± 2.8 kg). In both studies [ 4 , 
 14 ], the herbal preparations also resulted in sig-
niﬁ cant improvements in the blood lipid proﬁ  les 
of the subjects. Kalman and Minsch [ 15 ] also 
showed that supplementation of an ECA stack 
(20 mg ephedrine + 200 mg caffeine + 325 mg 
aspirin) for 6 weeks in overweight men resulted 
in weight loss that was signiﬁ  cantly greater when 
compared to PL (4.17 kg vs. 0.68 kg, respectively).  In agreement, Daly et al. [ 16 ] also reported that 
an ECA combination (75–150 mg ephed-
rine + 150 mg caffeine + 330 mg aspirin) resulted in 
modest sustained weight loss (2.2–5.2 kg) in 24 
obese individuals compared to PL and reported that 
the doses were well-tolerated and had no meaning-
ful effects on heart rate, blood pressure, insulin and 
glucose concentrations, or cholesterol levels. 
 In a more recent study, Liu et al. [ 17 ] exam-
ined the effect of leptin, EC, and the combination 
of the three    on visceral fat mass and weight loss 
in obese men and women (BMI = 30–40 kg · m 2 ) 
between the ages of 18 and 60 years. Subjects 
were randomized to one of three groups and 
received either 200 mg of caffeine + 20 mg ephed-
rine three times per day ( n  = 17), 20 mg of leptin 
A-200 administered subcutaneously (recombi-
nant methionyl human Fc-leptin molecule, 
Amgen ® ) once per day, and two PL pills twice per 
day ( n  = 26) or a combination of the leptin A-200 
and EC in the doses described above ( n  = 18) for 
24 weeks. At baseline, subjects were provided 
with a walking program (goal: 30 min 5 × week) 
and a calorie-restricted diet that was 1,200 kcal 
for women and 1,500 kcal for men; however, 
compliance data for the exercise and diet were 
not collected over the course of the study. Body 
fat was assessed at baseline, 12 weeks, and 24 
weeks by dual x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), 
and abdominal visceral fat mass was obtained via 
computed tomography. The results showed that 
the groups that received the EC and the combina-
tion of leptin with EC lost signiﬁ  cant ( p  < 0.05) 
amounts of weight (−5.9 ± 1.2 % and −6.5 ± 1.1 %, 
respectively) and whole body fat mass 
(−4.3 ± 0.9 kg and −4.9 ± 0.9 kg, respectively) 
compared to the leptin only group (−1.8 ± 0.9 % 
and −0.6 ± 0.8 kg for change in body weight and 
body fat, respectively). Only treatment with the 
leptin in combination with EC resulted in a sig-
niﬁ cant reduction in visceral fat mass 
(−11.0 ± 3.3 %). The authors [ 17 ] concluded that 
EC was a moderately effective weight loss agent 
and that leptin A-200 did not have any synergistic 
effect compared to EC alone. 
 In contrast to the studies described above, 
Vukovich et al. [ 18 ] reported that acute adminis-
tration (3 h) of herbal ephedrine and caffeine at J.M. Eckerson

163
doses of 20 mg and 150 mg, respectively, signiﬁ  -
cantly increased heart rate (22.7 ± 5.5 %), systolic 
blood pressure (9.1 ± 2.2 %), and resting energy 
expenditure (REE) (8.5 ± 2.0 %) compared to 
baseline values. Although the authors [ 18 ] did not 
directly examine the effects of the herbal mixture 
on body weight, they suggested that the increase in 
REE would be negligible in terms of weight loss. 
 Based upon the majority of the ﬁ  ndings in the 
literature, it appears that herbal ephedrine (ma 
huang) combined with caffeine or with caffeine 
and aspirin is effective for inducing moderate 
weight loss in overweight adults that are other-
wise healthy and have no preexisting cardiovas-
cular or cerebrovascular conditions. Because of 
safety concerns, and considering that many indi-
viduals might be unaware of underlying condi-
tions that may predispose them to an increased 
risk from herbal preparations that mimic both 
caffeine and ephedra, consultation with a physi-
cian prior to their use may be warranted as a pre-
caution. It is also important to note that ephedra 
and ephedra alkaloids are on the World Anti- 
Doping Agency Prohibited List and urine con-
centrations >10 μg · ml −1  would lead to 
disqualiﬁ  cation in most sanctioned sports.  
8.2.2     Bitter Orange ( Citrus 
aurantium  ) 
 The ban of ephedra by the FDA in 2004 led to the 
proliferation of a number of “ephedra-free” 
dietary supplements. Many of these products con-
tained bitter orange, which is also known as  Citrus 
aurantium  , Zhi shi, Seville orange, or sour orange, 
and refers to a small citrus tree ( C. aurantium  ) and 
its peel and fruit [ 19 ]. The active components in 
bitter orange are synephrine and octopamine, 
which are structurally similar to epinephrine and 
norepinephrine, respectively. Therefore, these 
compounds are also chemically related to ephed-
rine and are believed to affect alpha-receptors and 
beta-3 receptors, but not beta-1 or beta-2 recep-
tors. Because synephrine does not affect beta-1 
and beta-2 receptors, it is reportedly less active on 
the CNS than ephedrine and is theorized to have 
fewer adverse effects [ 19 ].  There is some confusion within the literature 
regarding the action of synephrine. For example, 
as mentioned above, Fugh-Berman and Myers 
[ 19 ] have reported that synephrine (and octopa-
mine) activates beta-3 adrenoreceptors, and not 
beta-1 or beta-2 receptors, which act to stimulate 
the heart (beta-1 and beta-2) and result in sys-
temic vasodilation (beta-2). However, Bent et al. 
[ 20 ] and Penzak et al. [ 21 ] reported that the 
extracts contained in bitter orange primarily 
stimulate alpha-1 adrenergic receptors because 
they resemble phenylephrine (a selective alpha 
receptor agonist commonly used as a nasal 
decongestant that is also known as neo- 
synephrine) and would result in vasoconstriction 
and increased blood pressure. 
 It appears that much of the confusion lies in 
the fact that there are several isomers of syneph-
rine including para (p)-synephrine, meta (m)-syn-
ephrine, and ortho-synephrine and that it is not 
exactly known which of these isomers or combi-
nation of isomers are present in nutritional weight 
loss supplement products. In addition, there is 
some confusion as to which synephrine alkaloids 
are actually present in bitter orange itself [ 22 ]. 
This information is critical to know, since these 
various isoforms exhibit different pharmacologi-
cal properties. The differences in the studies [ 19 –
 21 ] mentioned above regarding the exact 
mechanism of action of bitter orange is related to 
the different synephrine isoforms that each author 
suggests is contained in the extract. For example, 
Penzak et al. [ 21 ] and Bent et al. [ 20 ] state that it 
contains m-synephrine (i.e., phenylephrine), 
whereas Fugh-Berman and Myers [ 16 ] speciﬁ  -
cally state that m-synephrine (phenylephrine) is 
 not  present in  C. aurantium   and that its most 
active component is p- synephrine. Blumenthal 
[ 7 ] has also stated that the type of synephrine in 
bitter orange peel is p-synephrine and has been 
incorrectly characterized as m-synephrine by var-
ious authors. However, in their technical report of 
the constituents of bitter orange, Allison et al. 
[ 22 ] stated that they were unable to ﬁ  nd any con-
vincing data that bitter orange solely contains 
m-synephrine or p-synephrine. 
 Considering for a moment that bitter orange 
contains only p-synephrine and, therefore, 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

164
 selectively activates beta-3 receptors, it seems 
reasonable to suggest that this isoform would be 
able to induce weight loss with fewer side effects 
than other CNS stimulants, including m-syneph-
rine. However, because of their selective activa-
tion of beta-3 receptors, these compounds may 
actually be ineffective in humans. Animal studies 
using fat cells from rats, hamsters, and dogs have 
shown that beta-3 agonists, such as synephrine 
and octopamine, have potent lipolytic effects; 
however, they are weak stimulators in human fat 
cells [ 19 ]. Human adipocytes respond to activa-
tion of beta-1 or beta-2 receptors and have very 
little expression for beta-3 receptors. Therefore, it 
requires very high concentrations of synephrine 
(0.1–1 mM) to stimulate fat cells in humans [ 23 ]. 
 As indicated by Allison et al. [ 22 ], it is likely 
the case that most weight loss products contain-
ing bitter orange contain both p- and 
m- synephrines. In their technical report, Allison 
et al. [ 22 ] analyzed a weight loss supplement 
called Ultimate Thermogenic Fuel™, which 
stated on the label that it contained m-synephrine 
from bitter orange, and the authors did, indeed, 
ﬁ nd that the product contained both the p- and 
m- isoforms. Therefore, if bitter orange only con-
tains p-synephrine, then the manufacturers of 
these weight loss products are either adding syn-
thetic m-synephrine or are including other CNS 
stimulants [ 22 ]. As evidence of this, one only 
needs to read the label on commonly used OTC 
weight loss supplements to see that most do, in 
fact, include several CNS stimulants as a propri-
etary blend to boost the thermogenic effect. For 
example, in addition to bitter orange, many prod-
ucts also include ingredients such as caffeine, 
green coffee bean extract, green tea, yerba mate, 
and yohimbe bark extract, which are all pur-
ported to have an effect on weight loss. Bitter 
orange extract alone in pill form is also available 
OTC; however, it appears that no studies have 
examined the effect of bitter orange alone on 
weight loss. 
 In one of the ﬁ  rst clinical studies to investigate 
the effect of bitter orange on weight loss, Colker 
et al. [ 24 ] examined the effect of an herbal mix-
ture that contained 975 mg of  C. aurantium   
extract (6 % synephrine alkaloid), 900 mg of St. John’s wort (3 % hypericum), and 528 mg of 
 caffeine on body fat in 20 overweight 
(BMI > 25 kg/m 2 ), but otherwise, healthy adults. 
The subjects were randomly placed into a CTRL 
group ( n  = 4), a PL group that ingested maltodex-
trin ( n  =7), or the active treatment group ( n  = 9) 
and, if applicable, ingested their respective sup-
plement once daily for 6 weeks. All subjects par-
ticipated in a circuit training exercise program 3 
× week −1  for 45 min per session and received 
individual counseling from a registered dietitian 
to comply with an 1,800 kcal·day −1  diet recom-
mended by the American Heart Association. 
 The change in body weight from baseline to 6 
weeks for the group taking the  C. aurantium   was 
1.4 kg compared to 0.9 kg in the PL group and 
0.4 kg in the CTRL group, and the change in 
body fat and percent fat (via bioelectrical imped-
ance analysis (BIA)) for each of the three groups 
was −3.1 kg/−2.9 %,–0.63 kg / 0.8 %, and 
−1.8 kg/−2.2 %, respectively. The loss in body fat 
and percent fat was signiﬁ  cantly greater in the  C. 
aurantium   group compared to both the PL and 
CTRL groups; however, there were no signiﬁ  cant 
differences between groups for body weight, 
basal metabolic rate, blood pressure, HR, or EKG 
measurements. 
 Based upon the ﬁ  ndings, the authors [ 24 ] sug-
gested that the combination of  C. aurantium   with 
St. John’s wort and caffeine was safe and effective 
when combined with a diet and exercise program 
for inducing weight loss and fat loss in healthy, 
overweight adults. These results should be inter-
preted with caution, however, because the change 
in percent body fat (−2.9 %) over the 6-week sup-
plementation period was less than the error that is 
typically associated with BIA (~3–5 %), and this 
technique is not typically regarded as a criterion 
measure of body composition [ 25 ]. 
 In another early study by Armstrong et al. 
[ 26 ], the authors examined the effect of an herbal 
weight loss preparation containing ma huang, bit-
ter orange, guarana, white willow bark extract, 
and ginger root on REE, blood chemistries (blood 
lipids and glucose), and body composition (mea-
sured via DEXA) in 20 obese men ( n  = 5) and 
women ( n  = 15). Subjects randomly received the 
supplement ( n  = 12) or a PL ( n  = 8) for 6 weeks J.M. Eckerson

165
and also participated in an aerobic exercise 
 program 3 days · wk −1 . The only signiﬁ  cant 
( p  < 0.05) difference was for fat mass with the 
supplement group demonstrating a 2.57 kg loss, 
which is equivalent to approximately 1.2 lb, 
compared to a 0.49 kg loss in the PL group. 
 In 2006, Sale et al. [ 27 ] examined the acute 
effects of a commercially available supplement 
containing bitter orange, green tea, and guarana 
on metabolism and substrate utilization during 
rest and during treadmill walking in 10 over-
weight males (>20 % fat). To gather resting data, 
the subjects ingested the supplement and laid 
supine for 7 h. Baseline measurements were 
taken during the ﬁ  rst hour, and expired gases, 
blood pressure, HR, and a venous blood sample 
were measured every 30 min for the remaining 
6 h. During the exercise arm of the study [ 27 ], the 
subjects ingested the supplement or a PL and at 
1 h post-ingestion exercised on a treadmill for 1 h 
at 60 % of their estimated HR reserve. Venous 
blood was analyzed for nonesteriﬁ  ed fatty acids 
(NEFA), glycerol, glucose, and lactate, and 
expired gases were used to calculate energy 
(ATP) production and substrate utilization from 
carbohydrate and NEFA for both the resting and 
exercise conditions. 
 The results showed that there was no signiﬁ  -
cant effect of the supplement on total ATP utili-
zation during 6 h of rest or during 60 min of 
treadmill walking. However, there was a shift in 
ATP production and substrate utilization in both 
phases of the study, which demonstrated an 
increase in ATP production from carbohydrate 
and a decrease in NEFA, as well as an increase in 
carbohydrate oxidation. In fact, the increase in 
carbohydrate oxidation at rest was shown to be as 
high as 30 %. Although many weight loss supple-
ments are typically promoted to increase fat utili-
zation, these ﬁ  ndings suggest that a combination 
of bitter orange, green tea, and guarana stimu-
lated carbohydrate use and actually  decreased   
ATP production from fat. One positive ﬁ  nding 
from the study [ 27 ] was that the formula had no 
effect on resting HR or blood pressure (both SBP 
and DBP). 
 In a related study, Zenk et al. [ 28 ] also reported 
that a commercial weight loss product called the Lean System 7 (iSatori Global Technologies, 
Inc), which contained bitter orange, guarana, 
dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), and yerba 
mate among its seven ingredients, had no effect 
on HR or blood pressure (SBP and DBP) follow-
ing 8 weeks of supplementation in 47 overweight 
adults who were also following a low-calorie diet 
and exercise program. Zenk et al. [ 28 ] also 
reported that this product, which was recently dis-
continued by the manufacturer, had no effect on 
BMI, body weight, fat weight, or fat-free weight 
compared to PL, even though the resting meta-
bolic rate was signiﬁ  cantly ( p  = 0.03) increased in 
the treatment group (7.2 ± 1.6 kcal · day −1 ). 
 In a more recent study, Lopez et al. [ 29 ] exam-
ined the safety and effectiveness of a multi- 
ingredient weight loss product as an adjunct to an 
8-week diet and exercise program on body com-
position (DEXA) and blood chemistries (includ-
ing blood lipids, glucose, and leptin) in 45 obese 
men and women. Subjects randomly received a 
PL ( n  = 18) or a supplement that contained bitter 
orange, raspberry ketone, caffeine, capsaicin 
(cayenne pepper extract), garlic, and ginger 
( n  = 27) daily for 8 weeks. At the end of the 
8-week intervention, the results showed that the 
supplement was signiﬁ  cantly ( p  < 0.05) more 
effective than PL for inducing positive changes in 
body weight (−1.9 kg vs. −0.4 kg), fat mass 
(−2.9 kg vs. −0.9 kg), lean mass (+1.8 kg vs. 
+0.4 kg), and waist (−2.1 cm vs. −0.3 cm) and hip 
circumference (−1.9 cm vs. −0.4 cm). There were 
no signiﬁ  cant differences in blood pressure or 
blood chemistries between the two groups nor 
were there any serious adverse events reported, 
which suggests that the supplement was rela-
tively safe. Although the supplement did appear 
to signiﬁ  cantly augment the effects of the diet 
and exercise program, the magnitude of the 
changes in body composition was less than robust 
when you consider that this was an obese popula-
tion with an average BMI ≥ 30 kg · m 2 . 
 Based upon the available research, it does not 
appear that bitter orange is effective for weight 
loss when used in combination with a variety of 
other ingredients, including other CNS stimu-
lants. Although the studies reviewed above would 
appear to suggest that products containing bitter 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

166
orange are relatively safe and do not result in 
adverse effects on blood pressure, it is important 
to note that the subjects used in these studies 
were normotensive. Many individuals who are 
overweight or obese are also hypertensive; there-
fore, safety studies utilizing hypertensive popula-
tions are warranted. In addition, there appear to 
be no studies that have examined the effect of bit-
ter orange-containing products on more serious 
endpoint conditions such as myocardial infarc-
tion or stroke [ 30 ]. Because questions still remain 
regarding the safety of bitter orange and the 
weight loss induced through supplementation is 
marginal at best, it is difﬁ  cult to recommend with 
conﬁ dence. In addition, individuals with preex-
isting cardiac problems and/or hypertension 
should proceed with caution before using weight 
loss supplements containing bitter orange, since 
it is most commonly used in herbal mixtures that 
contain several other CNS stimulants.  
8.2.3     Green Tea and Caffeine 
 Next to water, tea is the most widely consumed 
beverage in the world. Black, green, and oolong 
tea are all derived from the  Camellia sinensis   
plant, which contains a class of polyphenols 
known as catechins [ 31 ]. Catechins, particularly 
those found in green tea, have been shown to 
exert positive effects on energy expenditure (i.e., 
thermogenesis) and fat oxidation, and, therefore, 
consumption of green tea or green tea extracts 
may be beneﬁ  cial for weight loss [ 32 ]. The pro-
cess by which green tea is produced (heat treat-
ment shortly after harvest) results in less oxidation 
and, as a result, preserves the highest concentra-
tion of catechins, which include epigallocatechin 
gallate (EGCG), epigallocatechin, and epicate-
chin gallate [ 32 ]. Green tea also contains caffeine; 
therefore, the two active ingredients in green tea 
believed to potentially induce weight loss are caf-
feine and catechins, particularly EGCG. 
 A recent study by Wang et al. [ 31 ] examined 
the effects of catechin-enriched green tea on 
body composition in 182 moderately overweight 
Chinese subjects (BMI range = 26.8–27.2 kg · m 2 ). 
Using a randomized, placebo-controlled design, 
the subjects were placed into one of four groups and received either (1) two servings of a CTRL 
drink (total = 30 mg catechins/10 mg caffeine; 
 n  = 43), (2) one serving of the CTRL drink and 
one serving of high-catechin green tea 
(total = 458 mg catechins/104 mg caffeine, GT1; 
 n  = 47), (3) two servings of high-catechin green 
tea (total = 468 mg catechins/126 mg caffeine, 
GT2;  n  = 49), or (4) two servings of an extra high- 
catechin green tea (total = 886 mg cate-
chins/198 mg caffeine, GT3;  n  = 43) twice per 
day for 90 days. Whole body fat and intra- 
abdominal fat were measured using DEXA, and a 
tape measure was used to measure waist and hip 
circumferences at baseline, 30, 60, and 90 days. 
There were no differences between groups at 
baseline or over the course of the study for 
reported energy intakes and macronutrient com-
position. At 90 days, there was a signiﬁ  cant 
( p  < 0.05) decrease in body weight (−1.2 kg), 
waist circumference (−1.9 cm), and intra- 
abdominal fat (−5.6 cm 2 ) in the GT3 group com-
pared to the CTRL group (+0.1 kg, −0.2 cm, and 
−1.1 cm 2 , respectively). Based upon these ﬁ  nd-
ings, the authors [ 31 ] concluded that consuming 
two servings of green tea containing 500–900 mg 
of catechins and moderate amounts of caffeine 
(<200 mg) for 3 months results in positive effects 
on body composition and reduces intra- abdominal 
fat in moderately overweight Chinese subjects. 
 Two recent meta-analyses [ 32 ,  33 ] also sug-
gest that the catechins and caffeine in green tea 
result in small, but positive effects on body com-
position and BMI. Hursel et al. [ 32 ] conducted a 
systematic review and meta-analysis of long- 
term studies ( ≥12 weeks) that examined the 
effect of EGCG on weight loss and weight main-
tenance and included potential moderators such 
as regular caffeine intake and ethnicity to deter-
mine if those factors inﬂ  uence the effect of 
EGCG + caffeine on body weight. Eleven of 
forty-nine studies identiﬁ  ed met the inclusion cri-
teria for the meta-analysis. The results showed a 
moderate, but signiﬁ  cant ( p  < 0.001) positive 
effect of catechins on both weight loss and weight 
maintenance. It was estimated that individuals in 
the treatment groups lost 1.31 kg more weight 
(~0.6 lb) compared to the CTRL groups. When 
the effects of habitual caffeine use and ethnicity 
were taken into account, the results showed that J.M. Eckerson

167
individuals who consumed caffeine in quantities 
>300 mg experienced less of an effect on weight 
loss (−0.27 kg) compared to low caffeine users 
(−1.61 kg). In addition, Caucasians experienced a 
smaller effect (−0.82 kg) compared with Asians 
(−1.51 kg). However, none of these differences 
reached statistical signiﬁ  cance. Based upon the 
ﬁ ndings, the authors [ 32 ] suggested that a cate-
chin/caffeine mixture had positive effects on 
weight loss and that ethnicity and habitual caf-
feine use may moderate their effects. 
 In a related study, Phlung et al. [ 33 ] performed 
a systematic review and meta-analysis to deter-
mine the effect of catechins with or without caf-
feine on anthropometric variables including BMI, 
body weight, waist circumference, and waist-to-
hip ratio. Of 341 citations retrieved through their 
search strategy, 15 trials ( n  = 1,243) met the inclu-
sion criteria and were included in the meta-analy-
sis. The results showed that catechins + caffeine 
decreased BMI (−0.55 kg · m 2 ), body weight 
(−1.38 kg), and waist circumference (−1.93 cm), 
but had no effect on waist-to-hip ratio compared 
to caffeine alone. In addition, catechin + caffeine 
ingestion resulted in a signiﬁ  cant decrease in 
body weight (−0.44 kg) compared with a caf-
feine-free CTRL. However, there was no effect of 
catechins alone on any parameter when compared 
to caffeine-free CTRL, suggesting that catechin 
ingestion alone is ineffective for weight loss. 
 Although these studies [ 31 – 33 ] indicate that 
catechins work synergistically with caffeine to 
elicit signiﬁ  cant reductions in body weight, BMI, 
and waist circumference, the magnitude of the 
changes is modest at best and is not clinically rel-
evant. There do not appear to be any adverse side 
effects associated with green tea consumption, 
and, although it has modest effects on weight loss, 
there is evidence that green tea has antioxidant 
components that beneﬁ  t health and has been shown 
to improve cholesterol proﬁ  les, decrease platelet 
aggregation, and lower blood pressure [ 10 ].  
8.2.4     Caffeine 
 Caffeine (1,3,7-trimethylxanthine) is an active 
ingredient in coffee, which is another one of the 
most common beverages consumed worldwide, but caffeine is also found in many other foods 
and beverages including dark chocolate, soda, 
and sports and energy drinks. Caffeine has been 
widely studied for its potential thermogenic 
effects and has been shown to increase REE and 
reduce energy intake; however, these acute effects 
have not resulted in meaningful long-term weight 
loss [ 34 ,  35 ]. Caffeine is usually studied in com-
bination with other thermogenic ingredients for 
their effects on weight loss versus its effects 
alone; however, one 12-year longitudinal study 
[ 36 ] showed that men and women who increased 
their caffeine consumption (143–213 mg) experi-
enced slightly smaller weight gain (2.79–3.22 kg) 
compared to individuals who decreased their caf-
feine intake (3.87–4.28 kg) over the 12-year 
period. A lack of sensitivity to caffeine as a result 
of increased tolerance may explain, in part, why 
it is ineffective for weight loss over time [ 34 ,  35 ].  
8.2.5     Capsaicin 
 Capsaicinoids are chemicals in plants that give 
foods and spice their pungency and are found in 
chili peppers, tobasco sauce versus tobacco, and 
mustard. Capsaicin and dihydrocapsaicin account 
for approximately 90 % of capsaicinoids present 
in nature and have been shown to increase REE 
and fat oxidation, most likely by stimulating the 
sympathetic nervous system or via increased 
secretion of catecholamines [ 37 ]. Capsaicin binds 
to the same receptors (nociceptors) that lead to 
the sensation of pain from heat and acid, which 
explains why eating chili peppers produces a 
strong sensation of heat [ 38 ]. In fact, chili peppers 
are so spicy that many people cannot eat them or 
can only eat them in small quantities. Another 
independent group of compounds that are struc-
turally similar to capsaicin are capsinoids and are 
found in a non-pungent cultivar of the red chili 
pepper called the “CH-19 Sweet” pepper [ 37 – 39 ]. 
Because of their different  structure, they stimu-
late receptors in the intestines versus nociceptors 
in the mouth [ 39 ]. Capsaicin, chili peppers, and 
the CH-19 Sweet have all been studied for their 
effect on weight loss. 
 Whiting et al. [ 38 ] recently performed a sys-
tematic review of the literature to determine the 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

168
potential beneﬁ  ts of capsaicinoids and capsinoids 
on weight loss and weight management. Of 90 
trials identiﬁ  ed, 20 met their inclusion criteria 
( n  = 563). Three main areas of potential beneﬁ  t 
for weight management were identiﬁ  ed including 
increased energy expenditure, increased fat oxi-
dation, and decreased appetite. The interventions 
in the studies reviewed included capsaicinoid- 
rich red pepper, CH-19 Sweet pepper, capsaicin 
supplements, dihydrocapsiate supplements, and 
cayenne peppers. It was observed that regular 
consumption of capsaicinoids signiﬁ  cantly 
decreased intra-abdominal fat and decreased 
appetite and energy intake. The review of the lit-
erature also determined that the consumption of 
capsaicinoids increased REE by approximately 
50 kcal · day −1 , which would result in clinically 
signiﬁ  cant weight loss in 1–2 years. Based upon 
the ﬁ  ndings [ 38 ], it was suggested that capsa-
icinoids could play a positive role in weight man-
agement programs. 
 In a recent clinical trial, Clegg et al. [ 40 ] also 
reported that chili pepper combined with medium-
chain triglycerides (MCT) increased diet-induced 
thermogenesis by over 50 %, which they sug-
gested could induce clinically signiﬁ  cant weight 
loss over time. In their study [ 40 ], seven healthy 
volunteers were tested on four occasions after an 
overnight fast and were randomly fed a breakfast 
(egg omelet with tomato, mushroom, sausage, 
and bacon, toast and orange juice) containing (1) 
chili and MCT oil, (2) chili and sunﬂ  ower oil, (3) 
bell pepper and sunﬂ  ower oil, or (4) bell pepper 
and MCT oil. The chili mix consisted of a cayenne 
and habanero pepper blend containing 2,000 ppm 
capsaicin that was added to the omelet. Resting 
energy expenditure, diet- induced thermogenesis, 
and fat oxidation were measured for 6 h following 
each breakfast condition. There were no statisti-
cally signiﬁ  cant differences between conditions 
for satiety or gastrointestinal discomfort ratings or 
fat oxidation, and all four breakfasts resulted in an 
increase in REE. However, the combined effect of 
the chili-MCT oil combination had a cumulative 
effect to increase thermogenesis by 51 % com-
pared to the other conditions. 
 Based upon the available evidence, it appears 
that capsaicinoids and capsinoids found in chili peppers and other pungent foods and spices are 
effective for increasing REE, which could lead to 
clinically signiﬁ  cant weight loss over time. The 
most commonly reported doses used in clinical 
trials appears to be 30 mg for red chili pepper, 
135 mg for capsaicin supplements, 3–12 mg for 
capsinoids, and up to 1 g · kg −1  body weight for 
CH-19 Sweet pepper [ 38 ]. However, questions 
remain regarding the ability of capsaicinoids and 
capsinoids to result in signiﬁ  cant amounts of 
weight loss over time, since few long-term stud-
ies (>12 weeks) using human subjects have been 
conducted to date.  
8.2.6     Pyruvate 
 Pyruvate (PYR) is a three-carbon compound syn-
thesized in the body via glycolysis and has been 
studied for its effects on weight loss since the late 
1970s when Stanko et al. [ 41 ] found that PYR, 
and a related three-carbon compound known as 
dihydroxyacetone (DHA), reduced the develop-
ment of fatty livers in rats fed with ethanol. 
Follow-up studies performed by the same 
research group [ 42 ,  43 ] using rat and pig models 
also showed that PYR and DHA supplementation 
resulted in increased energy expenditure and fat 
reduction, possibly through the result of increased 
thermogenesis. Stanko et al. [ 44 ,  45 ] have also 
reported signiﬁ  cant effects of PYR and DHA on 
weight loss in humans. In one study [ 45 ] that 
examined the effect of PYR (19 g·day −1 ) and 
DHA (12 g·day −1 ) supplementation for 3 weeks 
in 21 obese women ingesting a low-calorie diet, it 
was found that the combination of PYR-DHA 
resulted in signiﬁ  cantly greater losses in body 
weight (6.5 kg) and fat weight (4.3 kg) compared 
to PL (5.6 kg and 3.5 kg, respectively), which 
represented a difference of ~ 2 lb between groups. 
In a related study, Stanko et al. [ 44 ] also found 
that, when obese women who ﬁ  rst lost weight on 
a low-calorie diet were subsequently placed on a 
high-calorie diet with PYR, they regained weight 
at a signiﬁ  cantly ( p  < 0.05) slower rate compared 
to a high-calorie diet without PYR. Based upon 
these ﬁ  ndings, it was concluded that PYR and 
PYR-DHA when combined with a low-calorie J.M. Eckerson

169
diet results in greater weight loss vs. calorie 
restriction alone [ 45 ] and attenuates weight gain 
during hypercaloric conditions [ 44 ]. 
 Although many of the studies conducted by 
Stanko and colleagues [ 44 – 47 ] resulted in posi-
tive ﬁ  ndings, it is important to note that he owns 
several patents [ 42 ] for PYR-DHA, and while 
many researchers use patents as a means to pro-
tect their intellectual property, it may be consid-
ered by some to represent a conﬂ  ict of interest. In 
addition, the dosages recommended in the 
patients were large (i.e., 22–44 g·day −1 ) repre-
senting up to 20 % of daily energy intake and 
were ingested concurrently with a low-calorie 
diet [ 44 ,  46 ]. To gain a better understanding of 
the efﬁ  cacy of PYR on weight loss without 
caloric restriction, Kalman et al. [ 48 ] determined 
the effect of low-dose PYR on body composition 
in 51 overweight (BMI > 25 kg·m 2 ) men and 
women consuming a 2,000 kcal·day −1  diet. 
 In their study [ 48 ], the subjects randomly 
received weight loss product that contained PYR 
(6 g·day −1 ) and DHA (50 mg·day −1 ) ( n  = 18) or a 
PL (6 g·day −1  maltodextrin;  n  = 18) for 6 weeks, 
and another 15 subjects served as a CTRL group. 
Subjects in the PYR and PL groups met with a 
registered dietitian every 2 weeks and received 
counseling to follow a 2,000 kcal·day −1  diet (50 % 
carbohydrate, 20 % protein, and 30 % fat), and all 
subjects completed a circuit training protocol 
three times a week for ~45 min at 60 % of their 
predicted maximal HR. Body composition was 
tested at baseline and every 2 weeks, thereafter, 
using BIA. There were no signiﬁ  cant differences 
between the three groups at baseline, and, at the 
end of the 6-week period, the results showed that 
none of the groups experienced a signiﬁ  cant 
change in body weight. However, PYR resulted 
in a signiﬁ  cant decrease in fat weight (−2.1 kg) 
and percent fat (−2.6 %), as well as a signiﬁ  cant 
increase in fat-free weight (1.5 kg). There were 
no signiﬁ  cant differences in fat weight and fat-
free weight from baseline to 6 weeks for the PL 
and CTRL groups, and it is unknown if any of the 
differences in body composition were signiﬁ  -
cantly different between groups, since it does not 
appear that a statistical analysis was performed to 
determine between group differences after base-line. The authors [ 49 ] stated that 6 g·day −1  PYR 
supplementation for 6 weeks results in modest 
decreases in fat weight and a concomitant 
increase in fat-free weight when performed in 
conjunction with exercise. These results should 
be interpreted with caution, however, since body 
composition was not assessed using a criterion 
method, and it appears that incomplete statistical 
analyses were performed. 
 Kalman et al. [ 50 ] performed a similar study to 
examine the effects of exercise (45–60 min; 3 × 
week) and 6 g·day −1  PYR for 6 weeks on body 
composition in 26 overweight men and women 
compared to PL. The results of this study [ 50 ] 
showed that PYR resulted in a statistically signiﬁ  -
cant ( p  < 0.001) decrease in body weight (1.2 kg), 
fat weight (−2.5 kg), and percent fat (−3.0 %), 
whereas the PL group experienced no changes 
over the 6-week supplementation and training 
period. 
 In contrast to the ﬁ  ndings of Kalman et al. [ 48 , 
 50 ], Koh-Banerjee et al. [ 51 ] examined the effect 
of PYR during training on body composition and 
reported no signiﬁ  cant effects compared to PL. In 
this study [ 51 ], 23 untrained women were 
assigned to receive either 10 g·day −1  of PYR or a 
PL for 30 days while participating in a supervised 
exercise program. Prior to and following supple-
mentation, body weight, fat weight, and percent 
fat were assessed using underwater weighing, 
which is a commonly accepted criterion method 
for assessing body composition. Although the 
PYR group gained less weight (PYR = 0.3 ± 0.3 kg; 
PL = 1.2 ± 0.3 kg), lost more fat weight 
(PYR = −0.4 ± 0.5 kg; PL = 1.1 ± 0.5 kg), and 
lost a greater percentage of body fat 
(PYR = −0.65 ± 0.6 %; PL = 0.1 ± 0.5 %), the 
results were not statistically signiﬁ  cant ( p  = 0.16) 
when compared to PL. These ﬁ  ndings [ 51 ] are in 
agreement with Stone et al. [ 52 ] who also 
reported that PYR supplementation (~9 g·day −1 ) 
for 5 weeks had no signiﬁ  cant effect on body 
composition or training adaptations in college 
football players. 
 Onakpoya et al. [ 53 ] recently performed a sys-
tematic review and meta-analysis of randomized 
clinical trials to examine the efﬁ  cacy of PYR 
for reducing body weight. Only 9 trials were 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

170
 identiﬁ  ed as potentially relevant and, of those, 
six met the inclusion criteria for analysis, but all 
six were reported to have methodological weak-
nesses. The results of the meta-analysis showed 
that PYR did result in a small, but statistically 
signiﬁ  cant difference in body weight compared 
to PL (mean difference = −0.72 kg). Adverse 
events reported in the various studies included 
gas, bloating, diarrhea, and an increase in LDL 
cholesterol. The decrease in body weight was 
clinically insigniﬁ  cant and suggests that PYR is 
ineffective for reducing body weight. 
 Although many studies have shown that PYR, 
both with and without DHA, results in positive 
effects on body weight and body composition 
[ 44 – 48 ,  50 ], the majority of these studies were 
performed in the same laboratory, and supple-
mentation occurred in conjunction with extremely 
low-calorie diets [ 43 – 46 ]. In contrast, the results 
of other well-controlled studies in which subjects 
maintained their normal diet [ 51 ,  52 ] showed no 
effect of PYR when compared to PL. In addition, 
considering that the subjects used in the majority 
of the studies that showed positive results were 
overweight or obese, the weight loss induced by 
PYR was what may be considered modest at best. 
Based upon the available evidence, PYR cannot 
be recommended with conﬁ  dence as a treatment 
for weight loss.   
8.3     Supplements that Modify 
Carbohydrate and Fat 
Metabolism 
8.3.1     Green Coffee Bean Extract 
 Green coffee bean extract (GCBE) has been gain-
ing popularity as potential weight loss supplement 
and is being used in many OTC formulations and 
can also be purchased separately as a stand- alone 
supplement. Green coffee beans are beans that 
have not been roasted and contain high amounts 
of both caffeine and the phenolic compound, 
chlorogenic acid (CGA). The roasting process 
destroys most of the CGA; however, roasted cof-
fee beans do contain small amounts, with daily 
intake ranging from 0.5 to 1.0 g · day −1  in coffee drinkers [ 54 ]. Chlorogenic acid is also naturally 
occurring in plums, apples, and berries [ 55 ]. 
 The CGA in GCBE is largely responsible for 
its pharmacological effects, and its mechanism of 
action related to weight loss may be due to its 
ability to modulate glucose metabolism by inhib-
iting hepatic glucose-6-phosphatase, a rate- 
limiting enzyme in gluconeogenesis, inhibiting 
fat accumulation, and/or altering adipokine levels 
and fat distribution [ 56 ,  57 ]. Shimoda et al. [ 57 ] 
showed that GCBE administered to mice for 2 
weeks reduced visceral fat accumulation and 
body weight gain compared to caffeine or CGA 
alone. The authors [ 57 ] conducted additional 
experiments to determine the effect of GCBE and 
CGA on the liver and serum triglyceride levels, 
as well as the antiobesity effect of GCBE on 
dietary fat absorption using mice loaded with 
olive oil. The results of these experiments sug-
gested that the caffeine in GCBE suppressed fat 
absorption, while the CGA reduced hepatic tri-
glyceride content and serum triglyceride levels, 
and, therefore, the two constituents work syner-
gistically. In a related study, Cho et al. [ 58 ] also 
reported that CGA improved body weight, fat 
metabolism, and obesity-related hormone con-
centrations (leptin, insulin) in mice fed with a 
high-fat diet. 
 Studies examining the effect of GCBE on body 
composition in human subjects have also showed 
promising results. Thom [ 59 ] conducted two sep-
arate clinical trials to examine the effect of GCA-
rich coffee on glucose absorption in healthy 
subjects ( n  = 12, BMI < 25 kg · m 2 ) and also deter-
mined its effects on weight loss when added to the 
regular diet of overweight and obese subjects for 
12 weeks ( n  = 30, BMI 27.5–32.0 kg · m 2 ). The test 
coffee product used for both studies was Coffee 
Slender ®  (Med-Eq Ltd., Tonsberg, Norway), 
which is enriched with 200 mg of CGA from 
GCBE, and Nescafe ®  Gold Norwegian instant 
caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee blends were 
used as comparative products. For the glucose 
absorption study, subjects received each of the 
three beverages using a randomized, double-
blind, crossover design with a 1-week washout 
between trials. Following an overnight fast, each 
subject ﬁ  rst completed a 2 h glucose tolerance test J.M. Eckerson

171
upon arrival to the laboratory to serve as a 
CTRL. Subjects then randomly received one of 
the three test beverages, and blood glucose was 
then monitored at regular intervals for 2 h follow-
ing consumption (15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 min). 
The results showed that the area under the curve 
for plasma glucose was signiﬁ  cantly lower for the 
Coffee Slender ®  trial (724 ± 8 mmol · L · min −1 ) 
compared with the control (glucose tolerance test; 
778 ± 10 mmol · L · min −1 ), which represented a 
6.9 % reduction. There were no signiﬁ  cant effects 
observed between the CTRL and both caffeinated 
(788 ± 10 mmol · L · min −1 ) and decaffeinated 
(818 ± 11 mmol · L · min −1 ) Nescafe ®  blends. 
 In the second study [ 59 ], 30 volunteers were 
randomly placed into one of two groups and 
received Coffee Slender ®  ( n  = 15) or the Nescafe ®  
Norwegian instant caffeinated coffee blend 
( n  = 15). Each group was asked to consume 5 c 
black coffee per day (equivalent to 11 g) for 12 
weeks. Body weight and percent body fat (via 
BIA) were measured at baseline, 4 weeks, and 12 
week. The results showed that, following the 12 
weeks intervention, subjects in the Coffee 
Slender ®  group experienced signiﬁ  cant ( p  < 0.05) 
decreases in body weight (−5.4 ± 0.6 kg) and per-
cent fat (−3.6 ± 0.3 %) compared to the group that 
received caffeinated coffee (−1.7 ± 0.6 kg and 
−0.7 ± 0.4 %, respectively). 
 In another recent study, Vinson et al. [ 60 ] con-
ducted a 22-week crossover study to examine the 
efﬁ cacy of a commercially available GCBE prod-
uct containing CGA on weight loss in 16 over-
weight adults (8 men, 8 women; mean BMI ± SD 
= 28.22 ± 0.91 kg · m 2 ). The subjects randomly 
received high-dose CGA (1,050 mg), low-dose 
CGA (700 mg), or a PL in three separate 6-week 
treatment periods each followed with a 2-week 
washout. Subjects were measured at baseline, 6, 
8, 14, 16, and 22 weeks to assess body weight, 
body fat (via BIA), blood pressure, and HR. The 
results showed that the GCBE product resulted in 
signiﬁ  cant reductions in body weight 
(−8.4 ± 2.31 kg), percent body fat (−4.44 ± 2.00 %), 
and HR (−2.56 ± 2.85 bmin-1) for two-thirds of 
the 22-week study, with no reported changes in 
blood pressure. Although GCBE was shown to 
induce signiﬁ  cant decreases in body weight and had no adverse effects on heart rate and blood 
pressure, the study [ 60 ] has several methodologi-
cal weaknesses, and, therefore, the results should 
be interpreted with some caution. 
 Onakpoya et al. [ 54 ] also recently completed a 
systematic review and meta-analysis to examine 
the effectiveness of GCBE on weight loss using 
human trials. Only three of ﬁ  ve eligible trials 
were included in the analyses, but the results 
showed a signiﬁ  cant mean difference in body 
weight of −2.47 kg in GCBE-treated groups com-
pared with placebo. 
 Based upon the available evidence, it appears 
that GCBE with CGA may hold some promise 
for reducing body weight. However, more rigor-
ous, long-term clinical trials are necessary to gain 
a better understanding of the efﬁ  cacy and safety 
of GCBE as a weight loss supplement.  
8.3.2     Chromium Picolinate 
 Chromium is an essential trace mineral that 
enhances insulin activity and, therefore, is involved 
in carbohydrate, protein, and fat metabolism. 
Dietary weight loss supplements typically contain 
chromium in the form of chromium picolinate 
(CrP), an organic compound of trivalent chromium 
and picolinate, which is a derivative of tryptophan 
[ 61 ,  62 ]. Because CrP facilitates the action of insu-
lin, it is believed to decrease body fat, increase lean 
mass, and increase basal metabolism [ 61 ,  62 ]. 
However, most studies that have examined the 
effect of CrP on body weight and lean mass using 
humans have not shown many positive effects. 
 Pittler et al. [ 62 ] conducted a meta-analysis of 
10 randomized clinical trials that examined the 
effect of CrP on body weight reduction, and the 
results showed that body weight decreased 1.1–
1.2 kg (−0.08 to −0.2 kg·wk −1 ) compared to PL 
during an intervention period ranging from 6 to 
14 weeks, with daily dosages ranging from 188 
to 924 ug. In addition, no adverse events were 
reported in the studies that also examined the 
potential adverse side effects of chromium sup-
plementation [ 62 ]. 
 Lukaski et al. [ 61 ] examined the effect of CrP 
on body weight and body composition (fat weight 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

172
and fat-free weight) via DEXA in 83 women (age 
range = 19–50 years) with a BMI range of 
18–30 kg·m 2 . The subjects in the treatment group 
( n  = 27) ingested an equivalent of 200 ug of CrP 
for 12 weeks, and the other subjects either ran-
domly received picolinic acid (1,720 ug;  n  = 27) 
or PL ( n  = 29). All subjects were counseled by a 
registered dietitian and maintained a 2,000 kcal 
diet (51 % carbohydrate, 18 % protein, and 31 % 
fat) to control for chromium intake during the 
12-week study. 
 The results showed that body weight (−1.0 kg 
(PL) to −1.3 kg (CrP)) and fat weight (−1.1 kg 
(CrP) to −1.4 kg (PL)) signiﬁ  cantly decreased 
over the 12-week intervention; however, there 
were no signiﬁ  cant differences between the three 
groups, which indicates that the calorie restric-
tion, not CrP, was responsible for the weight loss. 
There were no signiﬁ  cant effects across time for 
any of the groups for fat-free weight or bone min-
eral density determined from DEXA. These ﬁ  nd-
ings support those of Pittler et al. [ 62 ] and suggest 
that CrP is a safe, but ineffective dietary weight 
loss supplement. 
 A more recent randomized, double-blind, 
placebo- controlled trial performed by Yazaki 
et al. [ 63 ] also reported that supplementation 
with 1,000 μg of CrP alone or in combination 
with a nutrition education program for 24 weeks 
had no effect on weight loss in a population of 80 
overweight and obese adults. Supplementation 
with CrP also had no effect on blood chemistries, 
including serum lipid, glucose, and insulin con-
centrations. Given the ﬁ  ndings of the study by 
Yazaki et al. [ 63 ], as well as the studies described 
above, CrP appears to be an ineffective weight 
loss supplement for humans and, therefore, is not 
recommended.  
8.3.3     Chitosan (Chitin) 
 Chitosan is a positively charged polysaccharide 
that is a polymer of glucosamine and is derived 
from the shells of crustaceans (i.e., crabs, shrimp, 
and lobster) [ 22 ,  64 ]. It is purported to block fat 
absorption, and, although there is some data 
using animals [ 65 ,  66 ] to suggest that it might be an effective weight loss supplement, there is little 
support for its use in humans. 
 In their review article, Pittler and Ernst [ 64 ] 
performed a meta-analysis on ﬁ  ve randomized 
clinical trials that examined the effect of chitosan 
on body weight in obese and overweight individ-
uals and reported that in three of the ﬁ  ve studies, 
chitosan had no signiﬁ  cant effect on body weight 
compared to a PL. The dosages used in the stud-
ies ranged from 0.48 g·day −1  to 3.1 g · day −1  and 
were 4–12 weeks in duration; however, in the 
study that used the lowest dose, chitosan was also 
combined with  Garcinia cambogia   (1.1 g · day −1 ), 
which is also commonly used in many dietary 
weight loss supplements. When examining the 
other four studies that used chitosan only, three 
resulted in no signiﬁ  cant ﬁ  ndings. All ﬁ  ve studies 
used in the meta-analysis reported minor adverse 
gastrointestinal effects following chitosan sup-
plementation including constipation, ﬂ  atulence, 
bloating, nausea, and heartburn [ 64 ]. 
 In another review and meta-analysis, Jull et al. 
[ 67 ] examined the effect of chitosan as a treat-
ment for weight loss. Fifteen studies that ranged 
in duration from 4 to 24 weeks ( n  = 1,219) met 
the inclusion criteria. Results of the data analysis 
showed that chitosan resulted in signiﬁ  cantly 
greater weight loss (−1.7 kg) and also lowered 
total cholesterol (−0.2 mmol · L −1 ) compared to 
PL. Although, the results were statistically sig-
niﬁ cant, the weight loss (<1.0 lb) has little clini-
cal signiﬁ  cance. 
 As previously mentioned, chitosan is a posi-
tively charged polymer of glucosamine that is 
believed to block, or “trap,” the absorption of fat 
by binding with negatively charged fat molecules 
in the lumen of the intestine [ 68 ]. If malabsorp-
tion of fat does result from products containing 
chitosan, then it would be expected that there 
would be an increase in fecal fat excretion. To 
test this hypothesis, Gades and Stern [ 69 ] quanti-
ﬁ ed the fecal fat content in subjects who supple-
mented with an OTC product called Absorbitol® 
(Natrol Inc, Chatsworth, CA). Fifteen males 
(26.3 ± 5.9 years; BMI = 25.6 ± 2.3 kg·m 2 ) con-
sumed ﬁ  ve meals per day containing 15 g fat 
(total 75 g · day −1 ) for 12 days. The ﬁ  rst 4 days 
served as a CTRL period, followed by a 4-day J.M. Eckerson

173
supplementation period in which the subjects 
received 4.5 g · day −1  of chitosan, and then the 
subjects were placed back onto the CTRL diet for 
another 4 days. All fecal matter on days 2–12 was 
collected to be analyzed for fat content. 
 The results showed that chitosan supplemen-
tation signiﬁ  cantly ( p  = 0.02) increased fecal fat 
excretion by 1.1 ± 1.8 g·day −1  (from 6.1 ± 1.2 to 
7.2 ± 1.8 g·day −1 ), which the authors [ 69 ] consid-
ered clinically negligible and stated that the prod-
uct would have no meaningful effect on energy 
balance or weight loss. Given these ﬁ  ndings [ 69 ], 
as well as those of Pittler and Ernst [ 64 ] and Jull 
et al. [ 67 ], chitosan does not appear to be effec-
tive for reducing body weight in humans and is 
associated with gastrointestinal discomfort, 
including constipation, ﬂ  atulence, and bloating.  
8.3.4     Garcinia Cambogia 
(Hydroxycitric Acid) 
 Garcinia cambogia, also known as brindleberry, is 
a tropical tree native to India that bears yellowish, 
pumpkin-shaped fruit. Both the natural fruit and 
rind contain hydroxycitric acid (HCA), which has 
been shown to decrease fat synthesis (lipogene-
sis), spare carbohydrate, suppress food intake, and 
attenuate body weight gain [ 70 ]. The extract of  G. 
cambogia   is a component of many dietary supple-
ments including Citrimax™ and Citrilean™. 
Most of these products claim that when ingested 
30 min prior to a meal, they suppress appetite and 
block carbohydrate absorption. 
 In general, the results for HCA as a dietary 
weight loss supplement for humans are not prom-
ising. In their article that examined the effect of 
HCA as a potential antiobesity agent, Heymsﬁ  eld 
et al. [ 70 ] reviewed seven other studies that had 
examined the effect of HCA alone or in combina-
tion with other ingredients on body weight and 
fat weight in overweight humans including two 
peer-reviewed articles, four abstracts, and one 
open-label study from an industrial publication. 
Of the seven studies reviewed, ﬁ  ve reported sig-
niﬁ cant ( p  < 0.05) effects of HCA alone or in 
combination with another weight loss agent on 
weight loss and fat loss and one study that failed to include statistics reported that subjects who 
ingested HCA + chromium for 8 weeks lost ~ 7 
more pounds versus subjects on PL 
(HCA = 11.14 lb vs. 4.20 lb for PL). However, 
Heymsﬁ  eld et al. [ 70 ] noted that in ﬁ  ve of the 
studies, HCA was taken in combination with 
other active ingredients that could also poten-
tially result in weight loss (i.e., CrP,  l -carnitine, 
chitosan, and herbal forms of caffeine); therefore, 
the studies offered little insight into the speciﬁ  c 
weight loss effects of HCA. Other limitations 
included a lack of a PL group or double blinding 
in one study and the use of near-infrared interac-
tance to assess body composition in another, 
which is considered by many to be an invalid 
method for measuring body composition [ 70 ]. 
 To gain a better understanding of the effect of 
HCA alone on body composition, as well as over-
come some of the limitations previously reported 
in the literature, Heymsﬁ  eld et al. [ 70 ] conducted 
their own 12-week double-blind placebo- 
controlled study using overweight subjects (age 
range = 18–65 years; BMI range ≥ 27–38 kg·m 2 ) 
who were either randomized to receive 
1,500 mg·day −1  HCA ( n  = 42; 3 × 500 mg·day −1  
30 min prior to meals) or a PL ( n  = 42). Body 
weight and fat weight (via DEXA) were assessed 
at baseline and 12 weeks, and all subjects were 
provided with 5,040 kJ/day diet plan (i.e., 
~1,200 kcal) with 50, 30, and 20 % as carbohy-
drate, protein, and fat, respectively. 
 The results showed that subjects in both 
groups lost a signiﬁ  cant amount of weight 
over the 12 weeks; however, there was no signiﬁ  -
cant difference between the two groups 
(PL = −4.1 ± 3.9 kg vs. HCA = −3.2 ± 3.3 kg, 
 p  = 0.14). In addition, there was no signiﬁ  cant dif-
ference in percent body fat lost between the HCA 
and PL groups (−2.16 ± 2.06 % vs. −1.44 ± 2.15 %, 
respectively). Based upon these results, HCA 
was no more effective than PL for reducing body 
weight and fat weight in overweight individuals. 
 Kovacs et al. [ 71 ] also found that supplemen-
tation with 500 mg·day −1  of HCA alone or in 
combination with MCT for 2 weeks did not result 
in increased satiety, fat oxidation, 24 h REE, or 
body weight loss (−1.0 kg for PL to −1.5 kg for 
HCA alone) compared to PL in 11 overweight 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

174
male subjects (BMI = 27.4 ± 8.2 kg·m 2 ). However, 
in a follow-up study that was also 2 weeks in 
duration, but used a larger dose, investigators 
from this same laboratory [ 72 ] reported that HCA 
(900 mg·day −1 ) reduced energy intake by 
15–30 %, but did not result in any signiﬁ  cant 
changes in satiety or body weight. The authors 
[ 72 ] suggested that HCA may not serve as a 
weight loss agent, but could be effective for pre-
venting weight regain in overweight individuals, 
since it resulted in a reduced energy intake. 
 In another related study, Kriketos et al. [ 73 ] 
examined the effect of HCA on fat oxidation and 
the metabolic rate in 10 sedentary men (age 
range = 22–38 years; BMI range = 22.4–
37.6 kg·m 2 ) using a double-blind, crossover 
design. The subjects visited the laboratory on 
four separate occasions to examine the effects of 
HCA (3.0 g·day −1  × 3 days) and a PL on meta-
bolic parameters both with and without moder-
ately intense exercise (30 min at 40 % VO 2  max 
followed by 15 min at 60 % VO 2  max). The 
results showed that HCA had no effect on the 
respiratory exchange ratio or energy expenditure 
at rest or during exercise, indicating that it had no 
effect on fat oxidation. Although their study did 
not directly examine the effect of HCA on body 
weight loss, the authors [ 73 ] commented that the 
lack of metabolic changes suggests that HCA 
would be ineffective for inducing weight loss in 
individuals consuming a typical mixed diet. In 
agreement, van Loon et al. [ 74 ] also reported that 
acute HCA supplementation (18 g·day −1 ) had no 
signiﬁ  cant effects on total carbohydrate and fat 
oxidation in 10 trained cyclists at rest or during 
submaximal exercise. 
 Although the results of several early studies (as 
reported by Heymsﬁ  eld [ 70 ]) suggested that HCA 
in combination with other ingredients, including 
CrP and herbal caffeine, enhanced weight loss, 
more rigorous well-controlled studies that used 
HCA alone suggest that it is not an effective 
dietary weight loss supplement compared to 
PL. In support of this, a recent systematic review 
conducted by Marquez et al. [ 75 ] that evaluated 
the safety and efﬁ  cacy of HCA or  Garcinia cam-
bogia   extracts in humans also cautioned against 
their effectiveness for decreasing body weight, but did indicate that the dosages used in the  studies 
reviewed (55–2,400 mg · day −1 ) did not result in 
adverse effects or toxicity compared to PL.  
8.3.5     Conjugated Linoleic Acid 
 Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) is a collective 
term used to describe a group of positional and 
geometric conjugated (i.e., alternating single and 
double bonds) isomers of linoleic acid (a fatty 
acid (FA)) that are naturally found in animal fat, 
dairy, and partially hydrogenated vegetable oils 
[ 76 ,  77 ] and is also sold commercially as a dietary 
weight loss supplement. Most CLA products sold 
OTC have a 40 %:40 % content of  cis- 9 ,trans  -11 
(c9t11) and  trans-  10, cis- 12 (t10c12) FA, while 
the remaining 20 % is typically composed of 
other conjugated FA (~1–4 %) and other noncon-
jugated FA (~15–19 %). The c9t11 CLA isomer 
accounts for 85–90 % of the total natural CLA 
content in the diet, whereas dietary intake of the 
t10c12 isomer is negligible [ 78 ]. When these two 
CLA isomers are combined in approximately 
equal amounts, several animal studies have 
shown strong evidence that they have anticar-
cinogenic and antiatherogenic effects, as well as 
positive effects on body composition and blood 
lipid proﬁ  les [ 76 ,  77 ,  79 ,  80 ]. The mechanisms of 
action which may explain how CLA promotes 
weight loss are not well understood, but it has 
been theorized that CLA may elicit positive 
effects on body composition by (1) inhibiting 
hormone-sensitive lipoprotein lipase which, in 
turn, inhibits lipogenesis (fat synthesis); (2) pro-
moting adipocyte apoptosis (programmed cell 
death); (3) preventing triglyceride (TG) accumu-
lation in adipocytes; (4) downregulating the 
expression of leptin; and (5) modulating glucose 
and fat metabolism to increase energy expendi-
ture [ 81 ]. As previously mentioned, it is well- 
documented that CLA elicits very favorable 
effects on body composition and lipid proﬁ  les in 
animals; however, the effect of CLA on body 
weight and body composition in humans has 
resulted in conﬂ  icting ﬁ  ndings. 
 Tricon and Yaqoob [ 77 ] reviewed 18 studies 
that examined the effect of body weight and body J.M. Eckerson

175
composition using human subjects and found that 
the results were much less promising than those 
found for animal studies using mice and pigs. 
The amount used in the studies reviewed ranged 
from 0.7 g·day −1  to 6.8 g·day −1 , the majority of 
which contained a 1:1 mixture of c9t11 and 
t10c12 CLA isomers. Of the 18 studies, four 
demonstrated modest reductions in fat weight, 
two studies were deemed inconsistent because a 
dose-response relationship was not found, and 
the remaining 12 studies showed no effect of 
CLA on body composition [ 77 ]. Although four 
studies reviewed by Tricon and Yaqoob [ 77 ] did 
show positive results for CLA on body composi-
tion, upon closer examination, some of the ﬁ  nd-
ings are less than dramatic. For example, Riserus 
et al. [ 82 ] examined the effect of 4.2 g·day −1  CLA 
for 4 weeks on abdominal fat and cardiovascular 
risk factors in 25 obese men with syndrome-X 
type symptoms (i.e., abdominal obesity, hyper-
tension, dyslipidemia, impaired fasting glucose) 
and reported a signiﬁ  cant ( p  = 0.04) decrease in 
sagittal abdominal diameter compared to 
PL. However, the change was less than 1 cm 
(−0.57 cm), and there were no signiﬁ  cant differ-
ences between groups for body weight, waist cir-
cumference, waist-to-hip ratio, or blood lipid 
concentrations (cholesterol, HDL, LDL, and TG) 
following supplementation. 
 In agreement, Larsen et al. [ 83 ] reported that 
CLA had no effect on body weight, body fat, or 
lean mass in a systematic review of the literature 
that included 13 studies that ranged from 4 to 24 
weeks in duration and dosages ranging from 0.7 
to 9.8 g · day −1 . Conversely, in another meta- 
analysis conducted 4 years later by Whigham 
[ 84 ], the authors reviewed 18 randomized clini-
cal trials and reported that CLA in a dose of 3.2 
g · day −1  resulted in a modest loss in body fat 
(−0.09 ± 0.08 kg · wk −1 ) compared to placebo 
( p  < 0.001). In a more recent systematic review 
and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials 
conducted by Onakpoya et al. [ 85 ], the authors 
reported that CLA resulted in signiﬁ  cantly greater 
reductions in body weight (mean difference: 
−0.70 kg) and fat weight (−1.33 kg) compared to 
PL. The authors [ 85 ] noted that the magnitude of 
these effects was small and also reported that  several adverse events were reported including 
soft stools, constipation, and diarrhea. 
 In a long-term independent clinical trial show-
ing positive results, Gaullier et al. [ 81 ] reported 
that supplementation with two different isomers of 
CLA for 1 year reduced body fat in overweight 
(BMI range = 25–30 kg·m 2 ), but otherwise healthy 
adult men and women ( n  = 180). In their study [ 81 ], 
subjects ingested TG-CLA ( n  = 60; 4.5 g·day −1 ), 
FA-CLA ( n  = 61; 4.5 g·day −1 ), or a PL ( n  = 59; 
4.5 g·day −1  olive oil). After 1 year of supplementa-
tion, both CLA groups demonstrated signiﬁ  cant 
decreases in body weight ( ∆FA-CLA = −1.1 ± 3.7 kg; 
∆TG-CLA = −1.8 ± 3.4 kg) compared to PL ( ∆ 
0.2 ± 3.0 kg), which only represents an approxi-
mate weight loss of 2.4–4.0 lb over the entire year 
or 0.20–0.33 lb per month. The fact that the stan-
dard deviation was greater than the mean change 
value for each group also suggests that there may 
have been considerable variation in body weight 
exhibited by the subjects during the 1-year period, 
with some likely demonstrating notable increases. 
 In contrast to the ﬁ  ndings of Gaullier et al. [ 81 ], 
Tricon et al. [ 80 ] used a crossover design to exam-
ine the effect of three different doses of high-grade 
c9t11 (0.59 g·day −1 , 1.19 g·day −1 , or 2.38 g·day −1 ) 
and t10c12 CLA (0.63 g·day −1 , 1.26 g·day −1 , or 
2.52 g·day −1 ) for three consecutive 8-week periods 
separated by a 6-week washout period. The results 
showed that there was no signiﬁ  cant effect of 
either isomer on body weight, BMI, or body com-
position (via skinfolds and BIA) at any dose. In 
agreement, Malpeuch- Brugere et al. [ 76 ] also 
reported no effect of high- grade c9t11 or t10c12 
CLA supplementation at dosages of 1.5 g·day −1  or 
3.0 g·day −1  administered in a dairy drink for 18 
weeks on body weight or body composition (via 
DEXA) in 81 overweight men. 
 Although animal studies have provided strong 
evidence to indicate that CLA has positive effects 
on body composition, its potential as an ant- 
obesity treatment for humans is much less prom-
ising. Brown and McIntosh [ 79 ] have suggested 
that the conﬂ  icting ﬁ  ndings in human research 
may be due, in part, to the fact that the mecha-
nism of action of CLA is isomer speciﬁ  c and that 
the dosages used in human trials are much less 
than those used in animal studies. Research from 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

176
their own laboratory [ 79 ] has shown that the 
t10c12 CLA isomer decreases human adipocyte 
TG content and differentiation, whereas the c9t11 
isomer increases TG accumulation and adipocyte- 
speciﬁ  c gene expression in human fat cells. In a 
related study, Tricon et al. [ 80 ] showed that these 
same two CLA isomers also had opposing effects 
on blood lipid proﬁ  les in healthy adults, with 
t10c12 resulting in increases in LDL/HDL cho-
lesterol and total/HDL cholesterol, while c9t11 
resulted in a decrease in these ratios. Given that 
the c9t11 and t10c12 CLA isomers appear to 
have opposite effects on adiposity, Brown and 
McIntosh [ 79 ] speculated that the inconclusive 
ﬁ ndings in human studies could be due to the use 
of mixed isomers for supplementation, which 
may negate each other and, thus, result in no sig-
niﬁ cant change in body fat. Although future stud-
ies are warranted to examine the effect of 
isomer-speciﬁ  c doses of CLA on body composi-
tion, there is no conclusive evidence to date to 
suggest that supplementation with either a mix-
ture of CLA isomers or single CLA isomers 
results in any meaningful effects on body compo-
sition in humans.  
8.3.6     Calcium 
 Calcium is typically known for its role in main-
taining bone density and bone mineral homeosta-
sis. However, there is some evidence to suggest 
that calcium may also play a role in adipocyte 
lipid kinetics to help decrease body fat. The poten-
tial of calcium to induce weight loss was ﬁ  rst 
reported in the late 1980s when Metz et al. [ 86 ] 
showed a reduction in fat weight in hypertensive 
rats that were ingesting high amounts of calcium 
and sodium, and Bursey et al. [ 87 ] found that 
increasing dietary calcium from 0.1 to 2.0 % 
resulted in less weight gain in both lean and obese 
Zucker rats. Interestingly, it wasn’t until 1999 
with the publication of two abstracts [ 88 ,  89 ] that 
more research began to focus upon this unex-
pected relationship between calcium and body fat. 
 The exact mechanism of action by which cal-
cium exerts its effect on body weight is not 
entirely clear; however, Zemel et al. [ 90 ] have 
proposed that low dietary calcium intake  stimulates dihydroxy vitamin D and parathyroid 
hormone (PTH) which, in turn, simulates the 
uptake of calcium into adipocytes. This inﬂ  ux of 
intracellular calcium results in an increase in 
lipogenesis (i.e., fat synthesis) and a decrease in 
lipolysis (i.e., fat breakdown), and the net result 
is an increase in body fat. In contrast, a high 
dietary intake of calcium has the opposite effect 
and inhibits vitamin D and PTH, which decreases 
the uptake of calcium into the adipocytes and, in 
turn, increases lipolysis and decreases lipogene-
sis resulting in weight loss [ 90 ]. 
 The discovery of an apparent inverse relation-
ship between dietary calcium intake and body 
weight has led to several original investigations, 
as well as the reevaluation of previously pub-
lished data, to examine the efﬁ  cacy of both 
dietary and supplemental calcium on body com-
position. For example, Davies et al. [ 91 ] 
re- analyzed ﬁ  ve clinical trials that included 780 
women between their third and eighth decade of 
life and found that in each of the ﬁ  ve studies, the 
calcium/protein ratio negatively predicted BMI 
and/or change in body weight. In contrast, 
Shapses et al. [ 92 ] combined data from three sep-
arate 25-week randomized, double-blind pla-
cebo-controlled trials to re-examine the effect of 
1,000 mg·day −1  calcium supplementation (cal-
cium citrate) on body weight and fat weight in 
pre- and postmenopausal women (total  n  = 100) 
and found no signiﬁ  cant differences for calcium 
versus PL and no signiﬁ  cant interaction of cal-
cium supplementation on menopausal status. The 
results from several original investigations [ 49 , 
 93 – 96 ] designed to speciﬁ  cally examine the 
effect of calcium on body composition have also 
resulted in conﬂ  icting ﬁ  ndings. 
 Zemel et al. [ 96 ] placed 32 obese subjects 
(18–60 years; BMI = 30.0–39.9 kg·m 2 ) on a 
calorie- restricted diet (500 kcal·day −1  deﬁ cit) for 
24 weeks and randomized them to a standard diet 
(400–500 mg dietary calcium per day supple-
mented with PL), a high-calcium diet (standard 
diet with 800 mg·day −1  calcium carbonate), or a 
high-dairy diet (1,200–1,300 mg·day −1  dietary 
calcium in the form of dairy products supple-
mented with PL). The results showed that all sub-
jects lost body weight as a result of caloric 
restriction; however, those assigned to the high- J.M. Eckerson

177
calcium (supplemental) and high-dairy diet lost 
8.58 ± 1.1 kg and 11.07 ± 1.63 kg of body weight, 
respectively, which was greater than the loss 
demonstrated by the subjects in the standard diet 
(−6.60 ± 2.58 kg). A similar trend also occurred 
for fat weight with the high-calcium and high- 
dairy groups experiencing greater losses 
(−5.61 ± 0.98 kg and −7.16 ± 1.22 kg, respec-
tively) compared to the standard diet 
(−4.81 ± 1.22 kg), with a signiﬁ  cant portion of the 
fat loss in each group occurring in the trunk 
region. Although the sample size in the study by 
Zemel et al. [ 96 ] was relatively small, their ﬁ  nd-
ings indicate that calcium signiﬁ  cantly augments 
weight loss secondary to calorie restriction and 
that dairy products have a greater effect than sup-
plemental forms of calcium. Based upon these 
results, as well as their ﬁ  nding that calcium regu-
lates lipogenesis and lipolysis within the adipo-
cyte [ 90 ], Zemel and colleagues submitted a 
patent for treating obesity with calcium [ 97 ]. 
 In contrast to the ﬁ  ndings of Zemel et al. [ 96 ] 
several clinical trials using a larger number of 
subjects [ 49 ,  93 – 95 ] have failed to ﬁ  nd a signiﬁ  -
cant relationship between calcium intake and 
body composition. Gunther et al. [ 49 ] deter-
mined the effect of long-term (1 year) supple-
mentation with dairy calcium using 135 healthy, 
normal weight women (age range = 18–30 years) 
as subjects and found no signiﬁ  cant changes in 
body weight or fat weight between groups that 
consumed a CTRL diet (<800 mg·day −1 ), a mod-
erate dairy diet (1,000–1,100 mg·day −1 ), or a 
high- dairy diet (1,300–1,400 mg·day −1 ). In 
agreement, Haub et al. [ 95 ] also showed that a 
calcium- fortiﬁ  ed beverage (1,125 mg·day −1 ) sup-
plemented over 1 year had no effect on body 
weight, fat weight, or abdominal fat in 37 post-
menopausal women (age range = 48–75 years) 
even though supplementation more than doubled 
the calcium/protein ratio. Barr et al. [ 93 ] also 
showed that three servings per day of milk had 
no effect on weight loss or other metabolic risk 
factors in older adults, and, in a 1-year study 
using 178 preschool children (ages 3–5 years), 
DeJongh et al. [ 94 ] reported that there were no 
signiﬁ  cant correlations between percent body fat 
and fat mass changes and dietary calcium intake and no signiﬁ  cant differences between calcium- 
supplemented groups (1,000 mg·day −1 ) vs. PL. 
 The results of several systematic reviews and 
meta-analyses [ 98 – 100 ] also suggest that calcium 
supplementation has small and clinically insigniﬁ  -
cant effects on body weight and body fat. In a 
review of 13 randomized controlled trials, 
Trowman et al. [ 100 ] found no statistically signiﬁ  -
cant association between the consumption of either 
calcium supplements or dairy products on body 
weight and concluded that it was ineffective for 
weight loss. In their systematic review of 49 ran-
domized trials, Lanou and Barnard [ 98 ] reported 
that 41 showed no effect, two resulted in weight 
gain, one showed a lower rate of weight gain, and 
only ﬁ  ve resulted in weight loss. In a more recent 
review, Onakpoya et al. [ 99 ] reported that a meta-
analysis of seven randomized clinical trials showed 
that calcium resulted in a small, but signiﬁ  cant 
( p  < 0.05) reduction in body weight and body fat 
compared to PL (mean difference: −0.74 kg and 
−0.93 kg, respectively); however, they questioned 
the clinical relevance of the results. 
 There is an overwhelming amount of evidence 
which shows that calcium has beneﬁ  cial effects 
on bone health and metabolism; however, the 
majority of the current evidence suggests that 
calcium supplementation or dairy intake has no 
meaningful effects on body weight or body fat 
loss. Although many individuals who are attempt-
ing to lose weight tend to eliminate dairy prod-
ucts, only two studies mentioned herein reported 
a signiﬁ  cant increase in body weight following 
increased calcium or dairy intake. Therefore, as 
long as energy intake is less than energy expendi-
ture, it does not appear that the addition of 
calcium- rich dairy sources to the diet would lead 
to any substantial increases in body weight and 
may help many individuals meet their daily cal-
cium requirements.  
8.3.7     White Kidney Bean ( Phaseolus 
vulgaris  ) 
 Carbohydrates are the major source of calories in 
most diets. Digestion of carbohydrates starts in 
the mouth with salivary amylase (released from 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

178
salivary glands), followed by amylase secretion 
by the pancreas for further digestion in the small 
intestine. The end products of carbohydrate 
digestion are their breakdown to monosaccha-
rides (glucose, fructose, and galactose), which 
are absorbed into the bloodstream from the intes-
tinal wall, subsequently resulting in an increase 
in serum insulin concentrations. It has been theo-
rized that slowing the absorption of carbohy-
drates via amylase inhibitors may result in 
favorable effects on insulin and, in turn, reduce 
fat accumulation [ 101 ]. Products available on the 
market purported to slow the absorption of carbo-
hydrates through the inhibition of enzymes 
involved in their digestion include alpha-amylase 
and glucosidase inhibitors [ 102 ]. Alpha-amylase 
inhibitors are also present in plants. For example, 
raspberries, green and black tea, beans, and 
grains, including wheat and rice, have all been 
reported to inhibit and amylase activity [ 102 ]. 
Most of the recent research attention, however, 
has focused on alpha-amylase inhibitors from 
beans, particularly white kidney beans ( Phaseolus 
vulgaris  ). 
 White kidney bean extract (WKBE) can come 
in the form of a powder, tablets and capsules, and 
chewables, and it has been reported by Barrett 
and Udani [ 102 ] that approximately 200 brands 
of nutritional supplements, including weight loss 
supplements, contain some form of WKBE. In 
addition, WKBE is also being added to food 
products including mashed potatoes, chewing 
gum, and bread and pizza dough and has been 
shown to maintain its activity without altering the 
texture, appearance, or taste of the food [ 102 ]. 
Most clinical trials that have examined the effect 
of WKBE on weight loss have used a proprietary 
product called Phase 2 ®  Carb Controller 
(Pharmachem Laboratories, Kearny, NJ), and 
several clinical trials have shown very promising 
data regarding its effect on weight loss. 
 Rothacker [ 103 ] examined the effect of a sup-
plement soft chew containing WKBE on weight 
loss in 60 overweight men and women (BMI 
range = 24–32 kg · m 2 ) for 12 weeks. Subjects 
randomly received either 2 soft chews with 
WKBE (1,000 mg) or 2 PL chews before each of their meals for a total of 6 chews per day. Subjects 
received counseling about proper nutrition and 
the importance of exercise, but neither diet nor 
exercise was monitored. Body weight was mea-
sured at baseline and 6, 8, and 12 weeks. At the 
end of the 12-week supplementation period, the 
results showed that subjects that received the 
active soft chew lost 6.9 ± 7.9 lb compared to a 
weight gain of 0.8 ± 6.1 lb in the PL group 
( p  = 0.029). These results are promising since 
subjects who supplemented with WKBE lost a 
signiﬁ  cant amount of weight without a strict diet 
or exercise intervention. 
 In a related study, Celleno et al. [ 104 ] exam-
ined the effect of a dietary supplement containing 
WKBE on body composition in 60 overweight 
men and women. Subjects randomly received an 
800 mg tablet containing 445 mg of WKBE or an 
800 mg placebo tablet that was identical in 
appearance and contained cellulose and malto-
dextrin for 30 days. The subjects were also given 
nutrition counseling and received a menu plan 
with nutritional recommendations that provided 
2,000–2,200 kcal · day −1 . They were instructed to 
take one tablet per day with one of two 
carbohydrate- rich meals provided with their 
menu for 30 consecutive days. Body weight, per-
cent body fat (via BIA), and waist-to-hip ratio 
were measured at baseline and 30 days. The results 
showed that the subjects who received the WKBE 
supplement demonstrated signiﬁ  cant ( p  < 0.001) 
decreases in body weight (−2.93 ± 1.16 kg), 
fat weight (−2.40 ± 0.67 kg), and waist 
(−2.93 ± 2.13 cm) and hip (−1.48 ± 0.66 cm) com-
pared to placebo (body weight = −0.35 ± 0.38 kg; 
fat weight = −0.16 ± 0.33 kg; waist = −0.47 ± 0.39 cm; 
hip = −0.10 ± 0.47 cm). The weight loss experi-
enced by subjects in the current study [ 104 ] over 
~4 weeks (6.45 lb) was similar to that reported in 
the 12-week study by Rothacker [ 103 ] (6.9 lb). 
 A recent review of 10 clinical trials by Barrett 
and Udani [ 102 ] that included the studies 
described above [ 103 ,  104 ] largely showed that 
doses of WKBE ranging from 500 to 
3,000 mg · day −1  in either single or divided doses 
led to clinically signiﬁ  cant weight loss and 
reduced postprandial spikes in blood glucose J.M. Eckerson

179
compared to placebo. The authors [ 102 ] also 
reported that gastrointestinal side effects were 
rare and that, to date, no serious side effects had 
been reported. Although more long-term, ran-
domized, placebo-controlled studies using more 
robust methods of body composition are war-
ranted, it appears that WKBE has strong potential 
to elicit clinically signiﬁ  cant weight loss and 
modulate glucose metabolism via its ability to 
inhibit amylase activity.   
8.4     Supplements That Increase 
Satiety 
8.4.1     Glucomannan, Guar Gum, 
and Psyllium 
 A number of dietary weight loss supplements 
contain water-soluble ﬁ  ber, which is theorized to 
absorb water in the gut and, therefore, decrease 
feelings of hunger and, in turn, reduce food intake 
ultimately leading to weight loss. Examples of 
some of the most common sources of ﬁ  ber in 
these products are glucomannan, psyllium, and 
guar gum.  
8.4.2     Glucomannan 
 Glucomannan ( Amorphophallus konjac  ) is a 
highly viscous dietary ﬁ  ber native to Asia that is 
derived from the konjac root (also known as ele-
phant yam) and is composed of a polysaccharide 
chain of glucose and mannose [ 64 ]. An early 
study by Walsh et al. [ 105 ] that examined the 
effect of glucomannan (3 g·day −1  × 8 weeks taken 
before meals) on obese patients ( ≥20 % of ideal 
body weight) found that it was more effective 
than PL for inducing weight loss, resulting in a 
mean loss of 2.49 kg (~5.5 lb). A review pub-
lished in 2005 by Keithly and Swanson [ 106 ] 
also reported that at doses of 2–4 g·day −1 , gluco-
mannan resulted in signiﬁ  cant weight loss in 
overweight individuals by increasing satiety and 
appears to be well-tolerated. However, in a recent 
clinical study published by the same authors [ 107 ], it was reported that 1.33 g of glucomannan 
in capsule form administered 1 h before meals for 
8 weeks resulted in no signiﬁ  cant difference in 
weight loss    (−0.40 ± 0.06 kg) compared to 
 placebo (−0.43 ± 0.07 kg). It was also reported 
that glucomannan was well-tolerated, but did not 
have any effect on satiety or lipid and glucose 
chemistries [ 107 ]. 
 Lyon et al. [ 108 ] examined the effect of a 
recently developed high-viscous polysaccharide 
(HVP) containing three natural ﬁ  bers (konjac, 
sodium alginate, and xanthan gum) for 3 months 
on anthropometric measures (body weight, waist 
and hip circumference) in non-dieting overweight 
and obese men and women (BMI 27–35 kg · m 2 ). 
The study was conducted using a randomized 
double-blind design and subjects ingested either 
5–15 g per day of HVP in powder form added to 
yogurt ( n  = 29) or inulin as PL ( n  = 30) for 15 
weeks. Modest, but signiﬁ  cant, decreases were 
observed for HVP compared to PL for body 
weight (−1.6 ± 3.2 kg) and hip circumference 
(−2.8 ± 3.2 cm) for women only. Although the 
changes in anthropometry were modest at best 
with the change in body weight for women repre-
senting 2 % of their initial weight, the authors 
[ 108 ] suggested that HVP may have potential for 
weight loss as part of a comprehensive weight 
management program. 
 Onakpoya et al. [ 109 ] also recently published 
a systematic review and meta-analysis to deter-
mine the efﬁ  cacy of glucomannan for weight loss 
for in overweight and obese individuals. The 
ﬁ ndings from 8 randomized control trials were 
used for analysis, and the results showed that 
there was a nonsigniﬁ  cant difference in weight 
loss between glucomannan and placebo (mean 
difference: −0.22 kg). In addition, several adverse 
events were reported including constipation, 
diarrhea, and abdominal discomfort.  
8.4.3     Guar Gum 
 The dietary ﬁ  ber guar gum is derived from the 
Indian cluster bean  Cyamopsis tetragonolobus   
and is found in a number of natural weight loss 8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

180
preparations. To determine its effectiveness for 
reducing body weight, Pittler and Ernst [ 110 ] 
conducted a meta-analysis of 11 randomized con-
trolled trials that ranged from 3 weeks to 6 months 
and found that there was no signiﬁ  cant difference 
in overweight subjects who received guar gum 
(7.5–21 g·day −1 ) compared to those that received 
PL (mean difference between guar gum and 
PL = −0.04 kg). Seven of the eleven studies also 
reported several adverse gastrointestinal effects 
from guar gum including ﬂ  atulence, diarrhea, 
gastric pain, and nausea. Because of the related 
adverse events, as well as the fact that it resulted 
in minimal weight loss compared to PL, Pittler 
and Ernst [ 110 ] did not recommend guar gum as 
a dietary treatment for weight loss. 
 In contrast, the results of a study by Birketvedt 
et al. [ 111 ] that examined the effect of three differ-
ent dietary ﬁ  ber supplements containing gluco-
mannan and/or guar gum on weight loss reported 
positive ﬁ  ndings. In their study [ 111 ], 176 men 
and women randomly received one of three differ-
ent dietary ﬁ  ber supplements or a PL for 5 weeks, 
while consuming a balanced 1,200 kcal·day −1  diet. 
The ﬁ  ber supplements included (1) glucomannan, 
(2) glucomannan and guar gum, or (3) glucoman-
nan, guar gum, and alginate. The results showed 
that all three ﬁ  ber supplements in conjunction 
with the low-calorie diet resulted in signiﬁ  cantly 
more weight loss compared to PL and diet alone; 
however, there were no signiﬁ  cant differences 
between the three treatments (−3.8 ± 0.9 kg, 
−4.4 ± 2.0 kg, and −4.1 ± 0.6 kg, respectively), 
which resulted in an average weight loss of 
approximately −0.8 kg·wk −1 . 
 Anderson et al. [ 112 ] also reported somewhat 
positive ﬁ  ndings for the effects of ﬁ  ber on weight 
loss. Sixteen randomized control trials were 
reviewed, and, for most trials, ﬁ  ber intake ranged 
from 4.5 to 20 g · day −1  and averaged 2.5 g per 
meal 3 × day −1 . In the majority of the trials, ﬁ  ber 
was primarily in insoluble form, but several also 
used glucomannan and guar gum. It was found 
that ﬁ  ber supplementation in conjunction with an 
energy-restricted diet resulted in moderately 
greater weight loss compared to PL. Compared to 
initial body weight, the percentage of weight loss 
for PL and ﬁ  ber-supplemented diets over 4, 8, and 12 weeks were as follows: 4 weeks, 2.0 % vs. 
3.2 %; 8 weeks, 2.9 % vs. 4.9 %; and 12 weeks, 
2.7 % vs. 4.9 %, respectively.  
8.4.4     Psyllium 
 Psyllium is derived from the husks of ripe seeds 
from the plant  Plantago ovata   or  Plantago psyl-
lium  [ 113 ] and is the active ingredient in many 
non-prescription laxatives and ﬁ  ber supplements 
including the well-known brand Metamucil ® . 
Although psyllium has been shown to be effec-
tive for lowering total cholesterol and LDL cho-
lesterol, it does not appear to be as effective as 
other ﬁ  ber types for reducing body weight and is 
associated with gastrointestinal disturbances 
including bloating and ﬂ  atulence [ 113 ]. 
 Dietary ﬁ  ber is well known for its beneﬁ  ts on 
colon health and is commonly recommended for 
the treatment of high cholesterol [ 112 ,  113 ]. 
Although there is some evidence to suggest that 
ﬁ ber supplements may be useful for increasing 
satiety and producing reductions in body weight, 
the results are equivocal and the weight loss is 
modest at best.   
8.5     Other Dietary Supplements 
 Other dietary supplements that have been pur-
ported to induce weight loss as either their pri-
mary or secondary action include herbal 
preparations such as dandelion, hoodia, cur-
cumin, bladderwrack, sunﬂ  ower, germander, and 
St. John’s wort; the prohormone DHEA; 
β-hydroxy- β-methylbutyrate (HMB), which is a 
metabolite of the amino acid leucine; and yerba 
mate, which would have similar actions to ma 
huang, citrus aurantium, and guarana [ 9 ,  68 ]. 
Still others include licorice, vitamin B 5 , MCT, 
and  l -carnitine [ 68 ]. Research regarding the efﬁ  -
cacy of these supplements for weight loss has 
primarily resulted in nonsigniﬁ  cant ﬁ  ndings, and, 
in some cases, supplementation has resulted in 
serious adverse effects [ 9 ,  68 ]. Therefore, the use 
of these dietary supplements as a treatment for 
obesity appears to be largely unwarranted.  J.M. Eckerson

181
8.6     Summary 
 Although the use of dietary supplements for 
weight loss is widespread, the evidence for their 
efﬁ cacy and safety is not overwhelmingly con-
vincing. Although there is some controversy 
regarding the deﬁ  nition of “clinically signiﬁ  cant 
weight loss,” there is strong consensus that a 
weight loss change of at least 5 % of body weight 
is clinically relevant [ 114 ]. For a 200 lb individ-
ual, that would represent a loss of 10 lb. For the 
majority of supplements discussed in this chap-
ter, few elicited changes in body weight that 
would meet this deﬁ  nition and were not compa-
rable  to changes in body weight and composition 
that may occur through a restricted diet and exer-
cise program (1.5–2.5 kg·wk −1 ) [ 115 ]. There is 
some evidence to suggest that herbal forms of 
ephedrine, such as ma huang, combined with caf-
feine or as an ECA stack, are effective for induc-
ing moderate weight loss in overweight adults. 
However, because of the ban on ephedra, it is 
only available through prescription, and, there-
fore, manufacturers must now use ingredients, 
such as bitter orange, which do not appear to be 
as effective and may still possess the potential for 
adverse effects. Green bean coffee extract, white 
kidney bean extract, and capsaicinoids also 
appear to hold some promise as a possible adju-
vant treatment for weight loss; however, more 
long-term studies are warranted to examine their 
efﬁ cacy, particularly when consumed alone, to 
conﬁ rm the ﬁ  ndings of preliminary research. 
 It is important to remember that dietary sup-
plements are not regulated like drugs, which must 
undergo rigorous clinical testing using both ani-
mal and human models before entering the mar-
ket. Therefore, the manufacturers of dietary 
weight loss supplements can make claims regard-
ing the effectiveness of their products without 
necessarily conducting clinical research trials 
ﬁ rst. When making the decision to use dietary 
supplements, it is critical, therefore, to rely on 
evidence-based research and/or dietetics profes-
sionals versus infomercials and advertisements 
from ﬁ  tness and body building magazines. 
 The future of dietary supplements for weight 
loss is dependent upon well-designed, large-scale clinical studies and more stringent regulation of 
the dietary supplement industry. Currently, how-
ever, there are few dietary supplements designed 
for weight loss that can be recommended with 
much conﬁ  dence.     
   References 
    1.    Dixon JB. The effect of obesity on health outcomes. 
Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2009;316:104–8.  
    2.    Radimer KL, Subar AF, Thompson FE. Nonvitamin, 
nonmineral dietary supplements: issues and ﬁ  ndings 
from NHANES III. J Am Diet Assoc. 2000;
100:447–54.  
     3.   Marketdata Enterprises, Inc. Weight loss market 
sheds some dollars in 2013 (Press Release, 4 Feb 
2014).  
         4.    Boozer CN, Nasser JA, Heymsﬁ  eld SB, Wang V , 
Chen C, Solomon JL. An herbal supplement contain-
ing ma huang-guarana for weight loss: a randomized, 
double-blind trial. Int J Obes. 2001;25:316–24.  
        5.    Greenway FL. The safety and efﬁ  cacy of pharma-
ceutical and herbal caffeine and ephedrine use as a 
weight loss agent. Obes Rev. 2001;2:199–211.  
    6.    Young R, Glennon RA. Discriminative stimulus 
properties of (-) ephedrine. Pharmacol Biochem 
Behav. 1998;60(3):771–5.  
     7.   Blumenthal M. Bitter orange peel and synephrine: 
Part 1. HerbalGram 2005;66: American Botanical 
Council.   http://cms.herbalgram.org/herbalgram/
issue66/article2833.html    . Accessed 26 May 2014.  
    8.    Shekelle PG, Hardy ML, Morton SC, Maglione M, 
Mojica WA, Suttorp MJ, Rhodes RL, Jungvig L, 
Gagne J. Efﬁ  cacy and safety of ephedra and ephed-
rine for weight loss and athletic performance: a 
meta-analysis. JAMA. 2003;289:1537–45.  
      9.    Allison DB, Fontaine KR, Heshka S, Mentore JL, 
Heymsﬁ  eld SB. Alternative treatments for weight 
loss: a critical review. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 
2001;41(1):1–28.  
     10.    Kovacs EMR, Mela DJ. Metabolically active func-
tional food ingredients for weight control. Obes Rev. 
2006;7:59–78.  
    11.   FDA Consumer Health Information. Warning on 
Hydroxycut Products. 1 May 2009.   www.fda.gov/
consumer/updates/hydroxycut050109.html      
    12.    Hutchins GM. Dietary supplements containing 
ephedra alkaloids. N Engl J Med. 2001;344(14):
1095–7.  
    13.    Dulloo AG. Herbal stimulation of ephedrine and caf-
feine in the treatment of obesity. Int J Obes. 
2002;26:590–2.  
       14.    Boozer CN, Daly PA, Homel P, Solomon JL, 
Blanchard D, Nasser JA, Strauss R, Meredith 
T. Herbal ephedra/caffeine for weight loss: a 6-month 
randomized safety and efﬁ  cacy trial. Int J Obes. 
2002;26:593–604.  8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

182
    15.    Kalman CM, Minsch A. Ephedrine, caffeine, and 
aspirin enhance fat loss under nonexercising condi-
tions. J Am Coll Nutr. 1997;16 Suppl 2:S149. Abs.  
     16.    Daly PA, Krieger DR, Dulloo AG, Young JB, 
Landsberg L. Ephedrine, caffeine, and aspirin: safety 
and efﬁ  cacy for treatment of obesity. Int J Obes. 
1993;17(Suppl1):S73–8.  
     17.    Liu AG, Smith SR, Fujioka K, Greenway FL. The 
effect of leptin, caffeine/ephedrine and their combi-
nation upon visceral fat mass and weight loss. 
Obesity. 2013;21:1991–6.  
     18.    Vukovich MD, Schoorman R, Heilman C, Jacob P, 
Benowitz NL. Caffeine-herbal ephedra combination 
increases resting energy expenditure, heart rate, and 
blood pressure. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 
2005;32(1-2):47–53.  
        19.    Fugh-Berman A, Myers A. Citrus aurantium, an 
ingredient of dietary supplements marketed for 
weight loss: current status of clinical and basic 
research. Exp Biol Med. 2004;229:698–704.  
     20.    Bent S, Padula A, Neuhaus J. Safety and efﬁ  cacy of 
citrus aurantium for weight loss. Am J Cardiol. 
2004;94:1359–61.  
      21.    Penzak SR, Jann MW, Cold JA, Hon YY , Desai HD, 
Gurley BJ. Seville (sour) orange juice: synephrine 
content and cardiovascular effects in normotensive 
adults. J Clin Pharmacol. 2001;41:1059–63.  
         22.    Allison DB, Cutter G, Poehman ET, Moore DR, 
Barnes S. Exactly which synephrine alkaloids does 
citrus aurantium (bitter orange) contain? Int J Obes 
(Lond). 2005;29:443–6.  
    23.    Carpene C, Galitzky J, Fontana E, Atgie C, Lafontan 
M, Berlan M. Selective activation of beta3- 
adrenoreceptors by octopamine: comparative studies 
in mammalian fat cells. Naunyn Schmiedebergs 
Arch Pharmacol. 1999;359(4):310–21.  
     24.    Colker CM, Kalman DS, Torina GC, Perlis T, Street 
C. Effects of Citrus aurantium, caffeine, and St. 
John’s Wort on body fat loss, lipid levels, and mood 
states, in overweight healthy adults. Curr Ther Res. 
1999;60(3):145–52.  
    25.    Heyward VH, Stolarczyk LM. Applied body compo-
sition assessment. Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics; 
1996. p. 47–54.  
    26.    Armstrong WJ, Johnson P, Duhme S. The effect of 
commercial thermogenic weight loss supplement on 
body composition and energy expenditure in obese 
adults. J Exer Physiol Online. 2001;4(2):28–35.  
      27.    Sale C, Harris RC, Delves S, Corbett J. Metabolic 
and physiological effects of ingesting extracts of bit-
ter orange, green tea and guarana at rest and during 
treadmill walking in overweight males. Int J Obes. 
2006;30:764–73.  
     28.    Zenk JL, Liekam SA, Kassen LJ, Kuskowski 
MA. Effect of Lean System 7 on metabolic rate and 
body composition. Nutrition. 2005;21:179–85.  
    29.    Lopez HL, Ziegenfuss TN, Hofheins JE, Habowski 
SM, Arent SM, Weir JP, Ferrando AA. Eight weeks 
of supplementation with a multi-ingredient weight loss product enhances body composition, reduces 
hip and waist girth, and increases energy levels in 
overweight men and women. J Int Soc Sport Nutr. 
2013;10:22.  
    30.    Haaz S, Fontaine KR, Cutter G, Limdi N, Perumean- 
Chaney S, Allison DB. Citrus aurantium and syn-
ephrine alkaloids in the treatment of overweight and 
obesity: an update. Obes Rev. 2006;7:79–88.  
       31.    Wang H, Wen Y , Du Y , et al. Effect of catechin 
enriched green tea on body composition. Obesity. 
2010;18(4):773–9.  
        32.    Hursel R, Viechtbauer W, Westerterp-Plantenga 
MS. The effects of green tea on weight loss and 
weight maintenance: a meta-analysis. Int J Obes. 
2009;33:956–61.  
      33.    Phung OJ, Baker WL, Matthews LJ, Lanosa M, 
Thorne A, Coleman CI. Effect of green tea catechins 
with or without caffeine on anthropometric mea-
sures: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Am J 
Clin Nutr. 2010;91:73–81.  
     34.    Hursel R, Westerterp-Plantenga MS. Thermogenic 
ingredients and body weight regulation. Int J Obes. 
2010;34:659–69.  
     35.    Manore MM. Dietary supplements for improving 
body composition and reducing body weight: where 
is the evidence? Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2012;22:139–54.  
    36.    Lopez-Garcia E, van Dam RM, Rajpathak S, Willett 
WC, Manson JE, Hu FB. Changes in caffeine intake 
and long-term weight change in men and women. 
Am J Clin Nutr. 2006;83:674–80.  
     37.    Galgani JE, Ravussin E. Effect of dihydrocapsiate 
on resting metabolic rate in humans. Am J Clin Nutr. 
2010;92:1089–93.  
       38.    Whiting S, Derbyshire E, Tiwari BK. Capsaicinoids 
and capsinoids. A potential for weight management? 
A systematic review of the evidence. Appetite. 
2012;59:341–8.  
     39.    Luo XJ, Peng J, Li YJ. Recent advances in the study 
of capsaicinoids and capsinoids. Eur J Pharmacol. 
2011;650:1–7.  
     40.    Clegg ME, Golsorkhi M, Henry CJ. Combined 
medium-chain triglyceride and chili feeding 
increases diet-induced thermogenesis in normal- 
weight humans. Eur J Nutr. 2013;52:1579–85.  
    41.    Stanko RT, Mendelow H, Shinozuka H, Adibi 
SA. Prevention of alcohol-induced fatty liver by 
natural metabolites and riboﬂ  avin. J Lab Clin Med. 
1978;91:228–35.  
     42.   Stanko RT. Methods for preventing body fat deposi-
tion in mammals. US Patent No. 4,812,479; 14 Mar 
1989.  
     43.    Stanko RT, Adibi SA. Inhibition of lipid accumula-
tion and enhancement of energy expenditure by the 
addition of pyruvate and dihydroxyacetone to a rat 
diet. Metabolism. 1986;35:182–6.  
         44.    Stanko RT, Arch JE. Inhibition of regain in body 
weight and fat wit addition of 3-carbon compounds 
to the diet with hyperenergetic refeeding after weight J.M. Eckerson

183
reduction. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord. 
1996;20:925–30.  
      45.    Stanko RT, Tietze DL, Arch JE. Body composition, 
energy utilization, and nitrogen metabolism with a 
severely restricted diet supplemented with dihy-
droxyacetone and pyruvate. Am J Clin Nutr. 
1992;55:771–6.  
     46.    Stanko RT, Reynolds HR, Hoyson R, Jonosky JE, 
Wolf R. Pyruvate supplementation on a low choles-
terol, low fat diet: effects on plasma lipid concentra-
tions and body composition in hyperlipidemic 
patients. Am J Clin Nutr. 1994;59:423–7.  
    47.    Stanko RT, Ferguson TL, Newman CW, Newman 
RK. Reduction of carcass fat in swine with dietary 
addition of dihydroxyacetone and pyruvate. J Anim 
Sci. 1989;67:1272–8.  
       48.    Kalman D, Colker CM, Stark R, Minsch A, Wilets I, 
Antonio J. Effect of pyruvate supplementation on 
body composition and mood. Curr Ther Res. 
1998;59(11):793–802.  
       49.    Gunther CW, Legowski AP, Lyle RM, McCabe GP, 
Eagan MS, Peacock M, Teegarden D. Dairy products 
do not lead to alterations in body weight or fat mass 
in young women in a 1-y intervention. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2005;81:751–6.  
       50.    Kalman D, Colker CM, Welets I, Roufs JB, Antonio 
J. The effects of pyruvate supplementation on body 
composition in overweight individuals. Nutrition. 
1999;15(5):337–40.  
       51.    Koh-Banerjee PK, Ferreira MP, Greenwood M, 
Bowden RG, Cowan PN, Almada AL, Kreider 
RB. Effects of calcium pyruvate supplementation 
during training on body composition, exercise 
capacity, and metabolic responses to exercise. 
Nutrition. 2005;21(3):312–9.  
     52.    Stone MH, Sanborn K, Smith LL, et al. Effects of 
in-season (5 weeks) creatine and pyruvate supple-
mentation on anaerobic performance and body com-
position in American football players. Int J Sport 
Nutr. 1999;9:146–65.  
    53.    Onakpoya I, Hunt K, Wider B, Ernst E. Pyruvate 
supplementation for weight loss: a systematic review 
and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials. Crit 
Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2014;54:17–23.  
     54.    Onakpoya I, Rohini T, Ernst E. The use of green cof-
fee extract as a weight loss supplement: a systematic 
review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical tri-
als. Gastroenterol Res Pract. 2011;2011:6. Article 
ID 382852.  
    55.   Quick M, Kiefer D. Weighing in: green coffee bean 
extract – a potential safe and effective weight loss 
supplement? Integr Med Alert;1 Sept 2013.  
    56.    Flanagan J, Bily A, Rolland Y , Roller M. Lipolytic 
activity of Svetol, a decaffeinated green coffee bean 
extract. Phytother Res. 2014;28:946–8.  
      57.    Shimoda H, Seki E, Aitani M. Inhibitory effect of 
green coffee bean extract on fat accumulation and 
body weight gain in mice. BMC Complement Altern 
Med. 2006;6:9.      58.    Cho AS, Jeon SM, Kim MJ, et al. Chlorogenic acid 
exhibits anti-obesity property and improves lipid 
metabolism in high-fat diet-induced-obese mice. 
Food Chem Toxicol. 2010;48:937–43.  
     59.    Thom E. The effect of chlorogenic acid enriched 
coffee on glucose absorption in health volunteers 
and its effect on body mass when used long-term in 
overweight and obese people. J Int Med Res. 
2007;35:900–8.  
     60.    Vinson JA, Burnham BR, Nagendran 
MV . Randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, 
linear dose, crossover study to evaluate the efﬁ  cacy 
and safety of a green coffee bean extract in over-
weight subjects. Diabetes Metab Syndr Obes. 
2012;5:21–7.  
      61.    Lukaski HC, Siders WA, Penland JG. Chromium 
picolinate supplementation in women: effects on 
body weight, composition, and iron status. Nutrition. 
2007;23:187–95.  
        62.    Pittler MH, Stevinson C, Ernst E. Chromium pico-
linate for body weight reduction: meta-analysis of 
randomized trials. Int J Obes. 2003;27(4):522–9.  
     63.    Yazaki Y , Faridi Z, Ma Y , Ali A, Northrup V , Njike 
VY , Liberti L, Katz DL. A pilot study of chromium 
picolinate for weight loss. J Altern Complement 
Med. 2010;16(3):29–299.  
        64.    Pittler MH, Ernst E. Dietary supplements for body- 
weight reduction: a systematic review. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2004;79:529–36.  
    65.    Han LK, Kimura Y , Okuda H. Reduction in fat stor-
age during chitin-chitosan treatment in mice fed a 
high fat diet. Int J Obes. 1999;23:174–9.  
    66.    Trautwein EA, Jurgensen U, Erbersdobler 
HF. Cholesterol-lowering and gallstone-preventing 
action of chitosans with different degrees of deacety-
lation in hamsters fed cholesterol rich-diets. Nutr 
Res. 1997;17:1053–65.  
     67.    Jull AB, Mhurchu N, Bennett DA, Dunshea-Mooij 
CA, Rodgers A. Chitosan for overweight or obesity. 
Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008;3, CD003892.  
       68.    Saper RB, Eisenberg DM, Phillips RS. Common 
dietary supplements for weight loss. Am Fam 
Physician. 2004;70:1731–8.  
      69.    Gades MD, Stern JS. Chitosan supplementation and 
fecal fat excretion in men. Obes Res. 
2003;11:683–8.  
         70.    Heymsﬁ  eld SB, Allison DB, Vasselli JR, Pietrobelli 
A, Greenﬁ  eld D, Nunez C. Garcinia cambogia 
(HCA) as a potential anti-obesity agent. JAMA. 
1998;280(18):1596–600.  
    71.    Kovacs EMR, Westerterp-Plantega MS, Saris 
WHM. The effects of 2-week ingestion of 
(-)-hydroxycitrate and (-)-hydroxycitrate combined 
with medium-chain triglycerides on satiety, fat oxi-
dation, energy expenditure and body weight. Int J 
Obes. 2001;25:1087–94.  
     72.    Westerterp-Plantenga MS, Kovacs EMR. The effect 
of (-)-hydroxycitrate on energy intake and satiety in 
overweight humans. Int J Obes. 2002;26:870–2.  8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

184
     73.    Kriketos AD, Thomson HR, Greene H, Hill JO. 
(-)-Hydroxycitric acid does not affect energy expen-
diture and substrate oxidation in adult males in a 
post-absorptive state. Int J Obes. 1999;23:867–73.  
    74.    Van Loon LJC, van Rooijen JJM, Niesen B, Verhagen 
H, Saris WHM, Wagenmakers AJM. Effects of acute 
(-)-hydroxycitrate supplementation on substrate 
metabolism at rest and during exercise in humans. Am 
J Clin Nutr. 2000;72:1445–50.  
    75.    Marquez F, Babio N, Bullo M, Salas-Salvado 
J. Evaluation of the safety and efﬁ  cacy of hydroxy-
citric acid or  Garcinia cambogia   extracts in humans. 
Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2012;52:585–94.  
      76.    Malpuech-Brugere C, Wihelmine PHG, de 
Verboeket-van V , Mensink RP, et al. Effects of two 
conjugated linoleic acid isomers on body fat mass in 
overweight humans. Obes Res. 2004;12(4):591–8.  
        77.    Tricon S, Yaqoob P. Conjugated linoleic acid and 
human health: a critical evaluation of the evidence. 
Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2006;9(2):
105–10.  
    78.    Meinert Larsen T, Toubro S, Gudmundsen O, Astrup 
A. Conjugated linoleic acid supplementation for 1 y 
does not prevent weight or body fat regain. Am J 
Clin Nutr. 2006;83:606–12.  
       79.    Brown JM, McIntosh MK. Conjugated linoleic acid 
in humans: regulation of adiposity and insulin sensi-
tivity. J Nutr. 2003;133(10):3041–6.  
      80.    Tricon S, Burdge GC, Kew S, Banerjee T, et al. 
Opposing effects of cis-9, trans-11 and trans-10, cis- 
12 conjugated linoleic acid on blood lipids in healthy 
humans. Am J Clin Nutr. 2004;80:614–20.  
       81.    Gaullier JM, Halse J, Hoye K, Kristiansen K, 
Fagertun H, Vik H, Gudmundsen O. Conjugated lin-
oleic acid supplementation for 1 y reduces body fat 
mass in healthy overweight humans. Am J Clin Nutr. 
2004;79:1118–25.  
    82.    Riserus U, Berglund L, Vessby B. Conjugated lin-
oleic acid (CLA) reduced abdominal adipose tissue 
in obese middle-aged men with signs of the meta-
bolic syndrome: a randomized controlled trial. Int J 
Obes. 2001;25:1129–35.  
    83.    Larsen TM, Toubro S, Astrup A. Efﬁ  cacy and safety 
of dietary supplements containing CLA for the treat-
ment of obesity: evidence from animal and human 
studies. J Lipid Res. 2003;44(12):2234–41.  
    84.    Whigham LD, Watras AC, Schoeller DA. Efﬁ  cacy 
of conjugated linoleic acid for reducing fat mass: a 
meta-analysis in humans. Am J Clin Nutr. 
2007;85(5):1203–11.  
     85.    Onakpoya I, Posadzki PP, Watson LK, Davies LA, 
Ernst E. The efﬁ  cacy of long-term conjugated lin-
oleic acid (CLA) supplementation on body composi-
tion in overweight and obese individuals: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized 
clinical trials. Eur J Nutr. 2012;51:127–34.  
    86.    Metz JA, Karanja N, Torok J, McCaron 
DA. Modiﬁ  cation of total body fat in spontaneously 
hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto rats by dietary calcium and sodium. Am J Hypertens. 1988;
1:58–60.  
    87.    Bursey RG, Sharkey T, Miller GD. High calcium 
intake lowers weight in lean and fatty Zucker rats. 
FASEB J. 1989;3137:A265. Abs.  
    88.    Teegarden D, Lin YC, Weaver CM, Lyle RM, 
McCabe GP. Calcium intake related to change in 
body weight in young women. FASEB J. 1999;
13:A873. Abs.  
    89.    Zemel MB, Shi H, Zemel PC, DiRienzo D. Calcium 
and calcium-rich dairy products reduce body fat. 
FASEB J. 1999;12:LB211. abs.  
      90.    Zemel MB, Shi H, Greer B, DiRienzo D, Zemel 
P. Regulation of adiposity by dietary calcium. 
FASEB J. 2000;14:1132–8.  
    91.    Davies KM, Heaney RP, Recker RR, Lappe JM, 
Barger-Lux MH, Rafferty K, Hinders S. Calcium 
intake and body weight. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 
2000;85:4635–8.  
    92.    Shapses SA, Stanley H, Heymsﬁ  eld SB. Effect of cal-
cium supplementation on weight and fat loss in 
women. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2004;89(2):632–7.  
      93.    Barr SI, McCarron DA, Heaney RP, Dawson-
Hughes B, Berga SL, Stern J, Oparil S. Effects of 
increased consumption of ﬂ  uid milk on energy and 
nutrient intake, body weight, and cardiovascular risk 
factors in healthy older adults. J Am Diet Assoc. 
2000;100:810–7.  
    94.    DeJongh ED, Binkley TL, Specker BL. Fat mass gain 
is lower in calcium-supplemented than in unsupple-
mented preschool children with low dietary calcium 
intakes. Am J Clin Nutr. 2006;84(5):1123–7.  
     95.    Haub MD, Simons TR, Cook CM, Remig VM, 
Al-Tamimi EK, Holcomb CA. Calcium-fortiﬁ  ed 
beverage supplementation on body composition in 
postmenopausal women. Nutr J. 2005;4:21 (PubMed 
online).  
       96.    Zemel MB, Thompson W, Milstead A, Morris K, 
Campbell P. Calcium and dietary acceleration of 
weight and fat loss during energy restriction in obese 
adults. Obes Res. 2004;12:582–90.  
    97.   Zemel MB, et al. Materials and methods for the 
treatment or prevention of obesity. US Patent No. 
6,384,087; 7 May 2002.  
     98.    Lanou AJ, Barnard ND. Dairy and weight loss 
hypothesis: an evaluation of the clinical trials. Nutr 
Rev. 2008;66(5):272–9.  
    99.    Onakpoya I, Perry R, Zhang J, Ernst E. Efﬁ  cacy of 
calcium supplementation for management of over-
weight and obesity: systematic review of random-
ized clinical trials. Nutr Rev. 2011;69(6):335–43.  
     100.    Trowman R, Dumville JC, Hahn S, Torgerson DJ. A 
systematic review of the effects of calcium supple-
mentation on body weight. Br J Nutr. 2006;95:
1033–8.  
    101.    Vinson JA, Kharrat HA, Shuta D. Investigation of an 
amylase inhibitor on human glucose absorption after 
starch consumption. Open Nutraceuticals 
J. 2009;2:88–91.  J.M. Eckerson

185
         102.    Barrett ML, Udani JK. A proprietary alpha-amylase 
inhibitor from white bean (Phaseolus vulgaris): a 
review of clinical studies on weight loss and glyce-
mic control. Nutr J. 2011;10:24.  
      103.   Rothacker D. Reduction in body weight with a starch 
blocking diet aid: StarchAway comparison with pla-
cebo. Leiner Health Products 2003;   http://www.pha-
se2info.com/pdf/Phase2_Study6.pdf     (online 
source).  
      104.    Celleno L, Tolaini MV , D’Amore A, Perricone NV , 
Preuss HG. A dietary supplement containing stan-
dardized Phaseolus vulgaris extract inﬂ  uences body 
composition in overweight men and women. Int J 
Med Sci. 2007;4(1):45–53.  
    105.    Walsh DE, Yaghoubian V , Behforooz A. Effect of 
glucomannan on obese patients: a clinical study. Int 
J Obes. 1984;8(4):289–93.  
    106.    Keithly J, Swanson B. Glucomannan and obesity: a 
critical review. Altern Ther Health Med. 2005;11(6):
30–4.  
     107.    Keithly JK, Swanson B, Mikolaitis SL, DeMeo M, 
Zeller JM, Fogg L, Adamji J. Safety and efﬁ  cacy of 
glucomannan for weight loss in overweight and 
moderately obese adults. J Obes. 2013;2013:7. 
610908.  
     108.    Lyon M, Wood S, Pelletier X, Donazzolo Y , Gahler 
R, Bellisle F. Effect of a 3-month supplementation with a novel soluble highly viscous polysaccharide 
on anthropometry and blood lipids in nondieting 
overweight or obese adults. J Hum Nutr Diet. 
2011;24:351–9.  
    109.    Onakpoya I, Posadzki P, Ernst E. The efﬁ  cacy of 
glucomannan supplementation in overweight and 
obesity: a systematic review and meta-analysis of 
randomized clinical trials. J Am Coll Nutr. 2014;
33(1):77–8.  
     110.    Pittler MH, Ernst E. Guar gum for body weight 
reduction: Meta-analysis of randomized trials. Am J 
Med. 2001;110:724–30.  
     111.    Birketvedt GS, Shimshi M, Erling T, Florholmen 
J. Experiences with three different ﬁ  ber supplements 
in weight reduction. Med Sci Monit. 2005;11(1):
I5–8.  
     112.    Anderson JW, Baird P, Davis R, et al. Health beneﬁ  ts 
of dietary ﬁ  ber. Nutr Rev. 2009;67(4):188–205.  
      113.    Pittler MH, Schmidt K, Ernst E. Adverse events of 
herbal food supplements for body weight reduction: 
a systematic review. Obes Rev. 2005;6(2):93–111.  
    114.    Stevens J, Truesdale KP, McClain JE, Cai J. The 
deﬁ nition of weight management. Int J Obes. 2006;
30:391–9.  
    115.    Cowburn G, Hillsdon M, Hankey CR. Obesity man-
agement by life-style strategies. Br Med Bull. 
1997;53:389–408.      8 Weight Loss Nutritional Supplements

187 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_9      Effective Nutritional Supplement 
Combinations 
           Matthew     B.     Cooke       and     Paul     J.     Cribb     
    Abstract  
  Few supplement combinations that are marketed to athletes are supported 
by scientiﬁ  c evidence of their effectiveness. Under the rigor of scientiﬁ  c 
investigation, we often see that the patented combination fails to provide 
any greater beneﬁ  t when compared to an active (generic) ingredient. The 
focus of this chapter is supplement combinations and dosing strategies 
that are effective at promoting an acute physiological response that may 
improve/enhance exercise performance and/or inﬂ  uence chronic adapta-
tions desired from training. In recent years, there has been a particular 
focus on two nutrition ergogenic aids—creatine monohydrate and protein/
amino acids—in combination with speciﬁ  c nutrients in an effort to aug-
ment or add to their already established independent ergogenic effects. 
These combinations and others are discussed in this chapter.  
  Keywords  
  Acute   •   Chronic   •   Supplementation   •   Aerobic   •   Anaerobic   •   Exercise per-
formance   •   Resistance training   •   Protein   •   Amino acids   •   Carbohydrate   • 
  Creatine monohydrate   •   Protein balance   •   Glycogen resynthesis   •   Sodium 
 D -pinitol   •   β-Alanine   •   HM β   •   Sodium bicarbonate   •   Caffeine   •   Ephedrine  
9.1         Introduction 
 Since the ancient Greeks (300 BC) used “natural 
preparations” to enhance athletic prowess, it is 
probable that athletes have been combining vari-
ous nutritional compounds in an effort to increase 
the ergogenic potential. An athlete’s drive    to 
 outperform the competition or maximize per-
sonal potential, combined with a growing aware-
ness that nutritional choices can inﬂ  uence         M.  B.   Cooke ,  BSc (Hons), PhD      ( *) 
  College of Health and Biomedicine , 
 Victoria University ,   Melbourne ,  VIC 3016 ,      Australia   
 e-mail: Matt.Cooke@vu.edu.au    
    P.  J.   Cribb ,  PhD, CSCS, FTAS          
 Metabolic Precision ,   PO Box 2257 ,  Sunshine Beach , 
 QLD   4567 ,  Australia   
 e-mail: paulc@metabolicprecision.com    9

188
athletic performance, has fueled an explosion in 
the interest of nutritional ergogenic aids, combi-
nations of dietary supplement formulations that 
enhance athletic performance. Sports supple-
ment companies often market various combina-
tions to consumers based on the assumption that 
the supplement blend (or stack) will provide 
greater beneﬁ  t than any single compound alone. 
However, very few supplement combinations 
that are marketed to athletes possess scientiﬁ  c 
evidence of their effectiveness. Quite often, 
under the rigor of scientiﬁ  c investigation, the 
patented blend is not examined against an active 
(generic) ingredient. From both scientiﬁ  c and 
practical perspectives, the focus of this chapter is 
supplement combinations and dosing strategies 
that are documented to be safe and effective at 
promoting an acute physiological response that 
may either improve/enhance exercise perfor-
mance or inﬂ  uence the chronic adaptations 
desired from training.  
9.2     Supplement Combinations 
that May Enhance 
the Phosphagen System 
 To fully appreciate the rationale behind the intense 
research focus on supplements that may enhance 
this system also known as the phosphocreatine–
creatine (PCr–Cr) system within muscle, one has 
to appreciate its fundamental, multifaceted roles 
in relation to exercise metabolism. The PCr–Cr 
system as a whole integrates all the local pools (or 
compartments) of adenine nucleotides, i.e., the 
transfer of energy from mitochondrial compart-
ments to that in myoﬁ  brils and cellular mem-
branes as well as the feedback signal transmission 
from sites of energy utilization to sites of energy 
production. The availability of PCr is now gener-
ally accepted as most critical to the continuation 
of muscle force production and performance 
during repeated, short bouts of powerful activity 
[ 1 ,  2 ] as well as aerobic exercise at high intensity 
[ 3 ,  4 ]. 
 The CK reaction during the resynthesis of ATP 
takes up protons [ 5 ]. Therefore, another function 
of this PCr–Cr system is the maintenance of pH 
in exercising muscle. In a reversible reaction (catalyzed by the site-speciﬁ  c CK), Cr and ATP 
form PCr and ADP (Fig.  9.1 ). The formation of 
the polar PCr “locks” Cr within the muscle and 
maintains the retention of Cr because the charge 
prevents partitioning through biological mem-
branes [ 2 ]. When pH declines (i.e., during exer-
cise when lactic acid accumulates), the reaction 
will favor the generation of ATP. Conversely, dur-
ing recovery periods (i.e., periods of rest between 
exercise sets), where ATP is being generated aero-
bically, the reaction will proceed toward the right 
and increase PCr levels. The notion that the main-
tenance of PCr availability is crucial to continued 
force production and performance during high-
intensity exercise is further supported by research 
that demonstrates the rate of PCr utilization is 
extremely high during the initial seconds of 
intense contraction—high anaerobic ATP regen-
eration rates result in a 60–80 % fall in PCr [ 10 ]. 
Not only is the depletion of muscle PCr associ-
ated with fatigue [ 9 ], the resynthesis of PCr 
and the restoration of peak performance are shown 
to proceed in direct proportion to one another, 
despite low muscle pH during recovery [ 10 ].  
9.2.1     Why Creatine? 
 If we condense the information covered so far, 
the ergogenic potential of Cr becomes clear. Cr is 
a naturally occurring tripeptide found promi-
nently in active muscle [ 1 ,  2 ]. However, under 
normal circumstances, muscle stores of Cr are 
not saturated [ 11 ]. Whether synthesized endoge-
nously or consumed orally, Cr is phosphorylated 
and stored within muscle [ 3 ,  4 ]. Therefore sup-
plementation represents a unique opportunity to 
increase cellular reserves to provide large 
amounts of energy that enhance the cellular bio-
energetics of the PCr–Cr system by increasing 
PCr availability [ 2 ,  9 ,  12 ]. While metabolic inves-
tigations involving Cr date back to the 1830s, the 
exogenous use of Cr in published research can be 
found in the early 1900s [ 13 ]. Cr as a supplement 
used for medical interventions such as treating 
diabetes and gyrate atrophy is documented from 
the 1930s up to the 1960s and 1970s [ 1 – 3 ]. 
However, the earliest scientiﬁ  c investigations 
involving the deliberate use of Cr to enhance M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

189
 athletic performance belong to Drs Eric Hultman, 
Karin Soderlund, and Roger Harris. These 
researchers pioneered the seminal work that 
showed large oral doses (20–30 g daily) of Cr in 
the form of creatine monohydrate (CrM) could 
increase plasma Cr and accumulation in skeletal 
muscle [ 1 – 3 ,  11 ,  12 ,  14 ]. Hultman was also one 
of the pioneers of CHO loading to enhance 
glycogen supercompensation and performance 
in the 1960s [ 15 – 17 ]. Hultman and colleagues 
applied the same loading principles with CrM 
supplementation [ 11 ,  12 ,  14 ].  CrM (n[aminoiminomethyl]-N- methylglycine) 
is a combination of Cr (anhydrous) and one water 
molecule. CrM is particularly stable even at high 
temperatures (stored over 60 °C for 3 years) and 
has slow degradation even at low pH levels [ 18 ]. 
Intestinal absorption of CrM is close to 100 % [ 19 ], 
Commercially, CrM is inexpensive to produce 
(compared to most supplements) and yields very 
high Cr purity (over 90 %) [ 18 ]. Probably for 
these reasons CrM supplementation has been the 
focus of well over 500 published investigations 
that have established that “loading” (4 × 5-g 
Mitochondrion
MyofibrilPi
Pi+ADPPCrPCrCrCrCa2+
ATPATP
ADP
+Pi
ATPCrPCrCrPCr
ADP
ATP
K+
Na++PiSarcoplasmic
reticulum
  Fig. 9.1    The main roles of the PCr–Cr system are illus-
trated in this ﬁ  gure. The ﬁ  rst is that of a temporal energy 
buffer for ATP regeneration achieved via anaerobic degra-
dation of PCr to Cr and rephosphorylation of ADP. This 
energy buffering function is most prominent in the fast- 
twitch/glycolytic ﬁ  bers; these ﬁ  bers contain the largest 
pool size of PCr [ 6 ]. The ATP required for high-intensity 
exercise is met by the simultaneous breakdown of PCr and 
anaerobic glycolysis of which the PCr–Cr system pro-
vides up to one-third of the total energy required [ 7 ]. The 
second major function of the PCr–Cr system is that of a 
spatial energy buffer (or transport system). In this capac-
ity, the PCr–Cr system serves as an intracellular energy 
carrier connecting sites of energy production (mitochon-
dria) with sites of energy utilization (Na + /K +  pump, myo-
ﬁ brils, and the SR) (see ﬁ  gure). To describe the speciﬁ  city 
of this system, it has been coined the creatine-phosphate (Cr-P i ) shuttle [ 8 ]. Meaning, Cr literally shuttles energy 
from the mitochondrion to highly speciﬁ  c sites via 
compartment- speciﬁ  c creatine kinase (CK) isoenzymes 
located at each of the energy-producing or energy- 
utilizing sites that transduce the PCr to ATP [ 5 ] and then 
returns to regenerate energy exactly equivalent to its con-
sumption at those sites [ 8 ]. A third function of the PCr–Cr 
system is the prevention of a rise in ADP that would have 
an inhibitory effect on a variety of ATP-dependant pro-
cesses, such as cross-bridge cycling. A rise in ADP pro-
duction would also activate the kinase reactions that 
ultimately result in the destruction of muscle adenine 
nucleotides [ 2 ]. Therefore, the removal of ADP via the 
creatine kinase (CK) reaction-induced rephosphorylation 
serves to reduce the loss of adenine nucleotides while 
maintaining a high intracellular ATP/ADP ratio at the sites 
of high energy requirements [ 9 ]         9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

190
servings · day −1 , 3–5 days) is a safe and effective 
way to elevate muscle Cr concentrations by 
15–40 % [ 1 ,  11 ] and enhance athletic perfor mance 
under a variety of circumstances [ 14 ,  20 – 25 ]. 
Regular use also appears to enhance the chronic 
adaptations desired from resistance training 
[ 26 – 28 ]. A large scientiﬁ  c body of literature 
continues to document this supplement’s physio-
logical [ 29 – 32 ] and performance-enhancing 
[ 33 – 37 ] effects as well as dispel concerns of 
adverse effects [ 27 ,  38 ]. For these reasons, there 
has always been interest in combining CrM 
with other compounds to enhance its ergogenic 
potential.  
9.2.2     Why Combine Creatine 
with Other Compounds? 
 The beneﬁ  cial effect of oral supplementation is 
thought to be dependent on the extent of Cr accu-
mulation [ 12 ,  26 ,  28 ]. However, it is also appar-
ent that this response can be highly variable 
between subjects [ 39 ]. Large variations in Cr 
accumulation (0–40 mmol · kg dm −1 ) in response 
to supplementation can be partly accounted for 
by differences in pre-supplementation muscle 
concentrations [ 28 ] and possibly in muscle ﬁ  ber- 
type distribution [ 6 ], but it remains unclear as to 
why muscle Cr accumulation can vary tremen-
dously (up to sixfold) among individuals with 
similar pre-supplementation concentrations [ 21 , 
 39 ,  40 ]. This variability in muscle Cr uptake 
among some individuals combined with the sig-
niﬁ cance of the PCr–Cr system and CrM’s poten-
tial to augment this all-important pathway is the 
underlining rational of studies that examine the 
effects of CrM supplementation in combination 
with other compounds.  
9.2.3     The Effects of Other 
Compounds on Creatine 
Uptake 
 The presence of phosphatase enzymes in the 
blood and gut suggests that supplementation 
with other ener gy-yielding components of the phosphagen system, such as ATP or PCr, is not a 
viable option as these enzymes readily cleave the 
phosphate from the molecule [ 41 ]. Whereas the 
Cr portion of the monohydrate form consists of 
up to 92 % Cr, it only forms 50 % of the PCr 
molecule [ 42 ]. Oral supplementation with CrM 
enters the circulation intact where active uptake 
by tissues is facilitated by a Na + -dependent trans-
porter against a concentration gradient [ 43 ]. 
CrM’s capacity to enhance the bioenergetics of the 
phosphagen system by increasing PCr availabil-
ity is thought to reside in the extent of Cr accu-
mulation within muscle [ 12 ,  26 ,  28 ]. To exert a 
beneﬁ  cial effect on performance and metabolism, 
an increase in muscle total Cr (PCr + Cr) content 
by at least 20 mmol · kg dm −1  appears to be 
required [ 40 ]. While a loading phase is shown 
consistently to achieve this (as well as increase 
total Cr concentrations in other tissues with 
low baseline Cr content), it is also apparent that 
this response can be highly variable between 
subjects. For these reasons, a number of studies 
have assessed Cr uptake in the presence of other 
compounds. For example, Cr accumulation in 
muscle is enhanced by the presence of insulin 
[ 44 ] and possibly triiodothyronine [ 45 ] but may 
be depressed by the presence of some drugs 
such as ouabain or digoxin [ 46 ] or a vitamin E 
deﬁ ciency [ 47 ]. The ﬁ  ndings from some investi-
gations suggest that caffeine may impair the 
advantages of Cr loading [ 48 ], whereas other 
studies have involved caffeine-containing bever-
ages (such as tea or coffee) to administer CrM 
and report signiﬁ  cant elevations in muscle Cr as 
well as improvements in athletic performance [ 7 , 
 9 ,  14 ,  21 ]. Other investigations report that muscle 
Cr uptake is not affected by PCr, creatinine, or 
cellular concentrations of various amino acids 
such as glycine, glutamine, alanine, arginine, leu-
cine, and glycine or the sulfur-containing amino 
acids methionine and cysteine [ 49 ,  50 ].  
9.2.4     Creatine with Macronutrients 
 Improved cellular retention of Cr has been attrib-
uted to a stimulatory effect of insulin on the Cr 
transporter protein [ 44 ]. Carbohydrates (CHO), M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

191
such as glucose and sucrose, generally evoke a 
high insulin response. Once it had been demon-
strated that the presence of insulin (at supraphysi-
ological levels) increased muscle Cr accumulation 
in humans [ 40 ], other investigations that exam-
ined the effects of combining CrM with CHO 
such as glucose soon followed. In two separate 
studies, Green et al. were the ﬁ  rst to demonstrate 
reduced urine Cr losses [ 51 ] and a 60 % increase 
in muscle Cr accumulation [ 52 ] from combining 
a high dose of glucose (93 g) with each 5 g dose 
of CrM (4 × 5 g · day −1 , 2 days) compared to CrM 
alone. Robinson et al. [ 53 ] also showed that a 
high-CHO diet combined with CrM (4 × 
5 g · day −1 , 5 days) after exercise provided effec-
tive ( P  < 0.01) Cr accumulation in the exercised 
limb. However, data from subsequent studies 
suggested that lower doses of CHO (glucose) 
may also be effective. For instance, Greenwood 
et al. [ 54 ] assessed whole-body Cr retention (via 
24-h urine samples for 4 days) and reported that 
a 5-g dose of CrM combined with an 18-g dose of 
glucose (4× · day −1 , 3 days) resulted in signiﬁ  -
cantly greater Cr retention than an equivalent 
dose of CrM only, or an effervescent Cr supple-
ment (containing sodium and potassium bicar-
bonate). Along this line, Preen et al. [ 55 ] 
examined the effectiveness of 3 different CrM- 
loading procedures on total Cr accumulation in 
muscle. Eighteen physically active males were 
divided into three equal groups and provided 
either (a) CrM (4 × 5 g · day −1 , 5 days), (b) the 
same dose of CrM + glucose (1 g · kg −1 , 
twice · day −1 , 5 days), or (c) CrM combined with 
60 min of daily exercise (repeated sprints) 
(CrM + E) for 5 days. Results showed that the 
combination of CrM + glucose provided a 7–9 % 
greater ( P  < 0.05) elevation in total muscle Cr 
concentrations than CrM only or CrM + E [ 55 ]. 
 Supplementation with high insulin- stimulating 
CHO appears to be effective at promoting Cr 
uptake; however, combining CrM with a protein 
(PRO) supplement may also provide similar ben-
eﬁ ts. For example, using a group of recreational 
weight lifters, one study directly compared the 
effects of two CrM-containing supplements, 
CrM + CHO (glucose) and CrM + PRO (whey 
isolate) (1.5 g of supplement · kg · day −1 ) during 11 weeks of resistance training [ 56 ]. After the 
11-week program, the two different CrM- 
containing supplements provided a similar 
increase in total muscle Cr concentrations 
(~10 %). Additionally, the groups given the 
CrM + CHO and CrM + PRO supplements dem-
onstrated greater ( P  < 0.05) strength improve-
ments and muscle hypertrophy compared to an 
equivalent dose of CHO or PRO [ 56 ]. Other stud-
ies have reported similar beneﬁ  ts from combin-
ing CrM with whey PRO [ 57 ] or CHO (glucose) 
[ 24 ] during resistance training, but muscle Cr 
concentrations were not assessed. Whereas these 
studies utilized relatively large doses of PRO or 
CHO (70–100 g or more) in combination with 
CrM [ 56 – 58 ] and reported positive outcomes, the 
results of one study by Stout et al. [ 59 ] suggest 
that a smaller dose of CHO (35 g glucose) with 
each 5-g dose of CrM is also effective at improv-
ing training adaptations. However, no other stud-
ies have directly compared the effects of different 
CrM-containing PRO or CHO supplements on Cr 
accumulation and training adaptations. 
 Combining PRO, CHO, and CrM may be the 
most effective mix for promoting whole-body Cr 
accumulation, particularly if smaller doses of the 
macronutrients are desired. Steenge et al. [ 40 ] 
reported that the ingestion of CrM along with a 
PRO + CHO supplement (50 g dairy milk PRO, 
50 g glucose) over 5 days resulted in similar insu-
lin responses and (whole-body) percentage Cr 
accumulation values (~25 %) as the same CrM 
dose combined with 100 g of glucose [ 40 ]. 
Whole-body Cr accumulation is an indirect 
method assessing CrM uptake by tissues. Percent 
whole-body Cr retention can be calculated as Cr 
ingested (g)/urinary Cr excretion (g) × 100 [ 40 ]. 
The results obtained by Steenge et al. [ 40 ] sug-
gest that the combination of PRO and CHO with 
CrM may be an effective way to improve Cr 
accumulation particularly when smaller doses of 
these macronutrients are desired. This combina-
tion may also have important implications for 
populations where the consumption of large 
amounts of CHO is undesirable, such as those 
with, or at risk of, type-II diabetes. This combi-
nation (CHO–PRO–CrM) has also been used to 
demonstrate that the timing of supplementation 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

192
may also be important to improving Cr accumu-
lation in muscle and adaptations from training 
[ 60 ]. Other studies have shown that CrM sup-
plementa tion close to exercise promotes muscle 
Cr uptake [ 53 ] and increases the girth and thick-
ness of the exercised limb after resistance training 
[ 61 ]. Therefore, the use of a CrM-containing 
PRO–CHO supplement before and after resis-
tance exercise may provide a higher degree of Cr 
accumulation and muscle anabolism and, there-
fore, promote better gains in strength and muscle 
mass. To summarize the research in this particu-
lar area, co-ingestion of CrM with CHO and/or 
PRO (namely, glucose or whey isolates, ~35–
100 g) appears to enhance muscle Cr storage that 
may result in enhanced performance and better 
training adaptations. Greater accumulation 
within muscle appears to be due to a stimulatory 
effect of insulin on cell Cr transporter. In fact, 
combining CrM with a PRO and/or CHO supple-
ment seems to reduce the individual variations in 
muscle Cr accumulation reported previously in 
studies involving acute loading [ 21 ,  39 ,  40 ]. 
Additionally, there is evidence to suggest that the 
timing of the supplement dose is important. The 
use of this supplement combination close to exer-
cise (i.e., just before and/or after) appears to pro-
mote better Cr accumulation within muscle and 
inﬂ uence training adaptations [ 53 ,  60 ]. Therefore, 
the use of a CrM-containing PRO–CHO supple-
ment close to exercise represents a simple but 
highly effective strategy that promotes effective 
Cr accumulation (to increase PCr availability in 
muscle) and provides an ergogenic effect during 
training that results in greater adaptations. 
Further examination of dose–responses along-
side the extent of Cr accumulation and adapta-
tions would help deﬁ  ne a clearer supplementation 
prescription.  
9.2.5     Creatine with Insulin 
Mimickers 
 Aside from the use of macronutrients such as 
PRO and CHO, some studies have examined the 
effects of co-ingesting CrM with other com-
pounds that affect insulin secretion and/or tissue sensitivity. For instance, in a single-blinded 
study, Greenwood et al. [ 62 ] examined whether 
co-ingestion of  D -pinitol (a plant extract with 
insulin-sensitizing characteristics) [ 63 ] with CrM 
affected whole-body Cr retention (determined by 
24-h urine samples for 4 days). Results revealed 
that whole-body Cr retention (and percentage of 
Cr retention) over the 3-day loading phase 
was greater ( P  < 0.05) in the two groups given 
CrM combined with a low dose of  D -pinitol 
(LP = 4 × 5 g CrM + 2 × 0.5 g  D -pinitol) 
(PreP =  D -pinitol 2 × 0.5 g  D -pinitol 5 days prior to 
and during CrM supplementation 4 × 5 g CrM) 
compared to equivalent dose of glucose (placebo) 
or CrM alone. However, another group given a 
high dose of  D -pinitol (4 × 0.5 g  D -pinitol) with 
the same dose of CrM showed no greater Cr 
retention when compared to the group given CrM 
alone [ 62 ]. Interestingly, the group pre-dosing 
with  D -pinitol (PreP) demonstrated the same 
results as the LP group suggesting that no further 
beneﬁ  t seems to be gained by taking  D -pinitol 
prior to supplementation [ 62 ]. In a follow-up 
study, Kerksick et al. [ 64 ] examined whether co- 
ingestion of  D -pinitol with CM would affect 
training adaptations, body composition, and/or 
whole-body Cr retention in resistance-trained 
males. In the study, 24 resistance-trained males 
were randomly assigned in a double-blind man-
ner to CM + D-pinitol or CM alone prior to begin-
ning a supervised 4-week resistance-training 
program. Subjects ingested a typical loading 
phase (i.e., 20 g · day −1  for 5 days) before ingest-
ing 5 g · d −1  for the remaining 23 days. The 
researchers reported that Cr retention increased 
in both groups as a result of supplementation. 
However, no signiﬁ  cant differences were 
observed between groups in training adaptations. 
The authors concluded that ingesting Cr with 
 D -pinitol may augment whole-body Cr retention 
in a similar manner to that reported with CHO or 
CHO and PRO supplementation [ 40 ]. Due to the 
conﬂ icting nature of the results regarding the 
high vs. low doses of  D -pinitol, further research is 
necessary before a clear conclusion can be drawn. 
 Another insulin mimicker that has shown 
potential to enhance Cr uptake and accumulation 
in muscle is α-lipoic acid (ALA). Supplementation M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

193
with ALA is shown to increase the expression of 
glucose transporter proteins (GLUT4) and 
enhance glucose uptake in muscle [ 65 ,  66 ]. In 
light of the fact that Cr uptake is inﬂ  uenced by 
insulin and that ALA can increase glucose dis-
posal, Burke et al. [ 67 ] examined the effects of 
combining ALA with CrM on muscle Cr accu-
mulation. In this study muscle biopsies were 
obtained to determine total Cr concentration 
from16 male subjects before and after the 5-day 
supplementation intervention. Results showed a 
greater increase ( P  < 0.05) in PCr and total Cr in 
the group given ALA combined with CrM + CHO 
(20 g · day −1  CrM + 100 g · day −1  sucrose + 
1,000 mg · day −1  ALA) compared with a group 
given the same dose of CrM + CHO or CrM 
alone. The authors concluded that co- ingestion of 
ALA with CrM (and a small amount of sucrose) 
can enhance muscle Cr concentrations content 
compared to an equivalent dose of CrM + CHO or 
CHO alone [ 67 ]. However, the authors also 
acknowledge that a limitation of this study was 
the high baseline muscle Cr concentrations 
exhibited by the participants; the groups were 
~10 % higher than starting values reported in other 
studies (~135 mmol · kg −1  vs. ~125 mmol · kg −1 ). 
Initial muscle Cr content is an important determi-
nant of muscle Cr uptake [ 40 ]. That is, study par-
ticipants with lower muscle Cr concentrations 
tend to show the largest increases after supple-
mentation; conversely, those with higher muscle 
Cr concentrations show little or no increase. 
Burke et al. [ 67 ] suggest that the higher starting 
values of the participants may have been the rea-
son for the lack of increase in PCr and total Cr 
experienced by two of the three groups in this 
study. As is the case with  D -pinitol, a very limited 
amount of work has examined the effects of ALA 
on Cr accumulation. 
 The herb Russian tarragon (RT) is an ethano-
lic extract that may have antihyperglycemic 
activity when combined with CM ingestion. To 
support this hypothesis, Jäger et al. [ 68 ] reported 
that RT inﬂ  uences plasma creatine levels during 
the ingestion of CM in a similar manner to glu-
cose and PRO. The authors suggest that theoreti-
cally, ingesting RT extract prior to Cr loading 
may enhance insulin sensitivity and thereby pro mote greater Cr absorption/retention. In a follow- up 
study by this group, Oliver et al. [ 69 ] used a 
double-blind, randomized, and crossover manner 
to examine the effect of consuming RT during 
5 days of CrM loading. Recreationally trained 
males ingested 500 mg of aqueous RT extract or 
500 mg placebo 30 min prior to ingesting 5 g of 
CrM twice per day for 5 days and then repeated 
after a 6-week washout period. Muscle and whole-
body Cr retention was assessed. Results showed 
that in these healthy adults, short-term CrM sup-
plementation (10 g · day −1  for 5 days) signiﬁ  cantly 
increased whole-body Cr retention and muscle 
free Cr content. However, ingesting 500 mg of 
RT 30 min prior to CrM supplementation did not 
affect whole-body Cr retention, muscle free Cr 
content, or anaerobic sprint capacity in compari-
son to ingesting CrM with a placebo. After show-
ing initial promise nearly 15 years ago, the 
evidence on insulin mimickers and their ability to 
enhance muscle Cr accumulation during CrM 
supplementation is still scarce. At this point, 
more investigations are required before evidence-
based recommendations, if any, can be made.  
9.2.6     Creatine Salts 
 Cr has been combined with different organic acids 
to form Cr salts with the intention of using acids 
that will create a synergistic effect or simply 
improve the properties of Cr. For example, cre-
atine salts such as citrate, maleate, pyruvate, 
ketoisocaproate, and orotate have been available to 
consumers since as the late 1990s [ 18 ]. A limita-
tion of combining Cr with organic acids to form a 
Cr salt is that effective daily doses of Cr and the 
acid will have to match CrM to achieve meaning-
ful physiological effects. For example, the amount 
of Cr in different forms of Cr salts will vary. For 
example, CrM contains 87.9 % creatine, whereas 
Cr citrate, maleate, pyruvate, ketoisocaproate, and 
orotate contain 66, 66, 60, 50 and 45.8 % creatine, 
respectively [ 18 ]. 
 Several investigations have used Cr salts to 
demonstrate a performance-enhancing effect. 
For example, Jager et al. [ 70 ] examined the effect 
of the administration of two different Cr salts 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

194
compared to CrM don plasma Cr concentrations 
and pharmacokinetics. In a balanced crossover 
designed study, six healthy subjects were 
assigned to ingest a single dose of isomolar 
amounts of creatine (4.4 g) in the form of CM, 
tricreatine citrate (TCC), or creatine pyruvate 
(CPY), followed by the measurement of the 
plasma creatine levels. Mean peak concentra-
tions and area under the curve (AUC) were sig-
niﬁ cantly higher with CPY (17 and 14 %, 
respectively) in comparison to CM. Although a 
small number of blood samples were taken, the 
ﬁ ndings suggested that different forms of cre-
atine may result in slightly different kinetics of 
plasma creatine absorption. However, muscle 
biopsies were not taken to determine Cr accumu-
lation, and the authors concluded that these 
small differences in kinetics are unlikely to have 
any clinically relevant effects on muscle Cr ele-
vation during periods of Cr loading. In the sec-
ond study, Jager and colleagues [ 71 ] evaluated 
the effect of oral CPY supplementation on exer-
cise performance in healthy young athletes in 
comparison to placebo and TCC. Results indi-
cated that 4 weeks of supplementation with these 
Cr salts signiﬁ  cantly improved performance dur-
ing intermittent handgrip exercise of maximal 
intensity and that CPY might beneﬁ  t endurance, 
due to enhanced aerobic metabolism. Combined, 
these studies are the ﬁ  rst indication that the Cr 
salt CPY may have comparable effects to CM. 
However, very few of these investigations have 
been able to show clear advantages over CrM. 
For a more detailed review of this topic, peruse 
Jäger et al. [ 18 ]. 
 Despite marketing claims, novel forms of oral 
Cr such as Cr phosphate [ 42 ,  72 ], Cr    serum [ 26 ], 
 Kre-Alkalyn    ®   [ 73 ], Cr PEG [ 74 ,  75 ], and Cr ethyl 
ester [ 76 ] have failed to show any clear beneﬁ  t or 
advantage over CrM. For example, creatine ethyl 
ester (CEE) has been purported to be a superior 
form of creatine in comparison to CM. To test 
this hypothesis [ 76 ], compared the effects of sup-
plementing the diet with a placebo, CM, or CEE 
during 42 days of resistance training. Serum Cr, 
creatinine, and muscle total Cr content were 
assessed prior to and following 6, 27, and 48 days 
of supplementation and training. The researchers 
found that CEE supplementation promoted a very modest increase in muscle total Cr content, 
compared to the Cr accumulation shown in the 
CM group at days 6 and 27. In fact, study partici-
pants ingested twice the recommended dose of 
CEE, yet the CrM group resulted in signiﬁ  cantly 
higher levels of serum Cr than the CEE group. 
Previous studies have shown that CEE degrades 
rather quickly to creatinine when exposed to low 
pH levels as would be found in the stomach [ 77 , 
 78 ]. In the Spillane trial, serum creatinine levels 
were signiﬁ  cantly increased in the CEE group 
after 6, 27, and 48 days of supplementation indi-
cating less efﬁ  cient uptake. These ﬁ  ndings 
directly contradict claims that CEE is more effec-
tive in increasing muscle Cr stores. 
 PEG is a compound consisting of repeated 
chain ethylene oxide units. The water-soluble 
properties of PEGylation may improve absorp-
tion, half-life, and resistance to pH degradation 
of Cr. PEG Cr has been analyzed in two human 
trials, one utilizing 1.25 and 2.5 g doses of PEG 
compared to 5 g doses of CrM [ 74 ,  75 ]. Results 
of these studies showed that while PEG Cr might 
be effective, it does not provide a clear advan-
tage or beneﬁ  t compared to CrM. According to 
product claims  Kre-Alkalyn    ®   is “up to ten times 
more powerful than ordinary Creatine.” However, 
the only study to examine this claim by Jagim 
et al. [ 73 ] demonstrated that neither manufactur-
ers recommended doses of this buffered form of 
Cr ( Kre-Alkalyn    ®  ) (1.5 g · day −1 ) or loading 
(20 g · day −1  for 7 days) and maintenance doses 
(5 g · day −1  for 21 days) promoted greater changes 
in muscle Cr content, body composition, 
strength, or anaerobic capacity than traditional 
supplementation with CrM (20 g · day −1  for 7 
days, followed by a maintenance dose 5 g · day −1  
for 21 days). Additionally there was no evidence 
that supplementing the diet with a buffered form 
of Cr resulted in fewer side effects than CrM. 
Collectively the current body of literature involv-
ing novel forms of Cr shows clearly that none are 
more effective than CrM at increasing muscle Cr 
concentrations. Other popular compounds such 
as HM β and β-alanine assessed in combination 
with CrM did not assess muscle Cr concentra-
tions in response to supplementation, and there-
fore their results are discussed elsewhere in this 
chapter. M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

195
 To summarize this section, supplement 
combinations that have been shown to increase 
muscle Cr concentrations are presented in 
Table  9.1 . CrM’s ergogenic potential and capac-
ity to enhance the bioenergetics of the phospha-
gen system are thought to reside in the extent of 
Cr accumulation within muscle. This has led to 
increased interest in combining CrM with com-
pounds to improve the uptake and accumulation 
of Cr within muscle. However, when viewed in 
comparison to the large body of literature that 
demonstrates CrM’s widespread use, safety, and 
performance-enhancing effects, a relatively 
undersized amount of work documents effective 
strategies and supplement combinations that 
may improve muscle Cr accumulation in 
response to supplementation. Probably due to an 
insulin- stimulating effect on the cellular Cr 
transporter, combining each dose of CrM with an 
insulin- stimulating CHO and PRO (~50 g of 
each or a total of 1 g · kg −1 ) appears to be a most 
effective strategy to improve Cr accumulation. 
The combination of PRO and CHO is particu-
larly effective when smaller doses of these 
macronutrients are desired. The current crop of 
insulin-mimicking compounds such as  D -pinitol 
ALA and Russian tarragon still has not demon-
strated clear data on Cr accumulation in muscle 
to warrant research- based recommendations. 
While some of the ﬁ  ndings on Cr salts (pyruvate 
in particular) are interesting, it is difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd 
evidence or a rational that warrants their use over 
CrM. Despite marketing claims, none of the 
novel forms of Cr on the market (Cr serum, Cr 
PEG, Cr ethyl ester, and buffered Cr) can dem-
onstrate any clear beneﬁ  t or advantage over 
CrM, and deﬁ  nitely none are able to demonstrate 
they promote better Cr accumulation within 
muscle.
9.3         Supplement Combinations 
to Promote Muscle Glycogen 
 Along with the phosphagen system, glycolysis 
and glycogenolysis are considered to be impor-
tant energy contributors during prolonged and high-intensity exercise. For example, while the 
depletion of CHO is considered one of the pri-
mary causes of fatigue and poor performance 
during prolonged, strenuous exercise [ 82 ], mus-
cle glycogen also fuels the regeneration of ATP 
during short-term, high-intensity (anaerobic) 
exercise. During a set of 12 maximum-effort rep-
etitions, just over 82 % of ATP demands are esti-
mated to be met by glycogenolysis [ 83 ]. A single 
bout of high-intensity resistance exercise charac-
teristically results in a signiﬁ  cant reduction in 
muscle glycogen of 30–40 % [ 84 – 86 ]. Conversely, 
the synthesis and restoration of muscle glycogen 
is affected not only by the extent of depletion but 
also by the type, duration, and intensity of the 
preceding exercise [ 15 – 17 ,  82 ,  87 ,  88 ]. The rapid 
restoration of muscle glycogen stores is a critical 
issue for all athletes who undertake training or 
competition sessions on the same or successive 
days. In general, the faster muscle glycogen 
stores can be replenished after exercise, the faster 
the recovery process and the greater the return of 
performance capacity [ 88 ]. 
 However, when considering nutritional strate-
gies that promote glycogen synthesis and restora-
tion, it is important to remember that high 
glycogen values (excess of 200 mmol · kg wet 
muscle weight) can be achieved without a deple-
tion phase [ 87 ] and with as little as 24–36 h of 
rest and high CHO intake (10 · kg · day) [ 89 ,  90 ]. 
Additionally, even the short-term high-CHO 
loading (~10–12 g · kg · day) protocols utilized 
may not suit all athletes’ circumstances. In fact, 
promoting supercompensatory glycogen levels 
might only be of beneﬁ  t to select endurance 
events such as time trials or where critically low 
(25 mmol · kg wet weight) muscle glycogen 
occurs [ 91 ,  92 ]. It is exciting to see the recent 
literature shifts from sports nutrition to a more 
pragmatic focus beyond traditional glycogen- 
loading diets, the generic grams per day and the 
often irrelevant macronutrient percentage recom-
mendations, and addresses more contemporary 
issues such as rapid refueling techniques [ 93 ], 
fueling during restricted carb intake [ 94 ], and 
other strategies that may increase CHO availabil-
ity [ 95 – 98 ]. 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

196
   Table 9.1    Supplement combinations and their effects on muscle creatine accumulation   
 Reference  Comparison  Assessment  Protocol  Main ﬁ  ndings 
 Green 
et al. [ 59 ]  CrM + CHO 
compared to CrM 
only  Muscle [PCr and Cr] 
before and after 
supplementation, no 
exercise  5 g CrM or 5 g CrM+ 
93 g CHO (glucose) 
4 × · day −1 , 5 days  After 5 days, 60 % greater 
[PCr] from CrM + CHO 
( P  < 0.01) 
 Robinson 
et al. [ 60 ]  High-CHO diet 
with CrM vs. 
high-CHO diet 
without CrM  Muscle [PCr and Cr], 
one-legged cycle 
exercise to exhaustion 
preceded 
supplementation  20 g CrM · day −1  5 days  After 5 days, 23 % greater 
increase in muscle [total 
Cr] in exercised limb 
( P  < 0.01) 
 Greenwood 
et al. [ 61 ]  CrM + CHO 
compared to CrM 
only and 
effervescent Cr  Whole-body Cr 
retention via 24-h urine 
samples for 4 days, 3 
days of 
supplementation, no 
exercise  5 g CrM + 18 g CHO 
(glucose) 4 × · day −1 , or 
equivalent dose of CrM, 
3 days  After 4 days, greater Cr 
retention from 
CrM + CHO compared to 
other groups ( P  < 0.05) 
 (~% CrM retained 0, 60, 
80, & 60 for  P , CrM, 
CrM + CHO, & 
effervescent Cr, 
respectively) 
 Preen 
et al. [ 62 ]  CrM + CHO 
compared to CrM 
only and 
CrM + exercise (E)  Muscle [PCr and Cr] 
before and after 5 days 
of intervention, one 
group performed 
exercise  CrM: 20 g · day −1  
 CrM + CHO: 
20 g · day 1  + glucose 
1 g · kg −1 , 2× · day −1  
CrM + E: 
20 g · day −1  + 60 min 
repeated sprints daily  After 5 days, 9 % greater 
increase in [total Cr] from 
CrM + CHO ( P  < 0.05) 
 (25 % vs. 16 % & 18 % 
for CrM + CHO vs. CrM 
& CrM + E, respectively) 
 Derave 
et al. [ 79 ]  CrM + PRO 
compared to CrM 
only and placebo 
(P)  Muscle [PCr and Cr] 
prior to and after 
2-week right-leg 
immobilization 
followed by 6 weeks of 
right-leg resistance 
training  CrM: 15 g · day −1  during 
immobilization 
followed by 2.5 g · day −1  
during rehabilitation 
 CrM + PRO: CrM 
dose + 40 g protein and 
6 g AA during training  After training, ~30 % 
increase from baseline in 
[total Cr] (right leg) in 
both CrM and CrM + PRO 
vs. P ( P  < 0.05) 
 Steenge 
et al. [ 43 ]  CrM + CHO (low 
& high dose) 
compared to 
CrM + CHO + PRO  Insulin and whole-body 
Cr retention values 
(24 h) before and after 
each supplement trial 
(all participants 
completed 4 trials)  CrM (4 × 5 g) 
 +5 g CHO 
 +50 g CHO, 
 +93 g CHO or 
 + PRO + CHO (50 g 
each)  After 24 h PRO + CHO 
provided similar insulin 
responses and [total Cr] 
accumulation values 
(~25 %) as high-dose 
CHO ( P  < 0.05) 
 Cribb 
et al. [ 63 ]  Compared 
CrM + CHO and 
CrM + PRO to 
CHO and PRO 
alone  muscle [PCr and Cr] 
before and after 11 
weeks of resistance 
exercise  All groups: 
 1.5 g of 
supplement · kg · day −1  
for 11 weeks 
 CrM groups: 
0.3 g · kg · day −1  5 days 
followed by 
0.01 g · kg · day −1  for 10 
weeks  After 11 weeks, ~10 % 
increase from baseline, 
[total Cr] after 11 weeks 
in both CrM + CHO and 
CrM + PRO groups 
( P  < 0.05) 
 Cribb 
et al. [ 80 ]  Compared 
PRO + CHO to 
CrM + PRO + CHO 
and PRO alone  Muscle [PCr and Cr] 
before and after 10 
weeks of resistance 
exercise  All groups: 1.5 g of 
supplement · kg · day −1  
for 11 weeks. CrM 
groups: 0.3 g · kg · day −1  
5 days followed by 
0.01 g · kg · day −1  for 10 
weeks  After 11 weeks, ~10 % 
increase from baseline, 
[total Cr] after 11 weeks 
in both CrM + CHO and 
CrM + PRO groups 
( P  < 0.05) 
(continued)M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

197
Table 9.1  (continued)
 Reference  Comparison  Assessment  Protocol  Main ﬁ  ndings 
 Cribb and 
Hayes [ 67 ]  Compared 
supplement timing, 
CrM + PRO + CHO 
before and after 
resistance exercise, 
to the same 
supplement at 
times not close to 
training  Muscle [PCr and Cr] 
assessed before and 
after 10 weeks of 
resistance exercise  Dose: 1.g 
supplement · kg −1  
2× · day −1  (CrM: 
0.01 g · kg ·  −1 ) 
 Taken immediately 
before and after 
workouts. Or twice a 
day 5 h outside 
workouts, 10 weeks  After 10 weeks, 14 % 
greater increase in [PCr] 
and 18 % greater increase 
in [total Cr] from 
supplement timing (PCr 
16 % vs. 2 %; total Cr 
25 % vs. 7 %, 
respectively) ( P  < 0.05) 
 Greenwood 
et al. [ 69 ]  Compared CrM+ 
 D -pinitol high dose 
(HP) and low dose 
(LP) as well as 
pre-dosing (PreP) 
to CrM only and 
placebo (P)  Whole-body Cr 
retention via 24-h urine 
samples for 4 days, 3 
days of 
supplementation, no 
exercise  CrM 4 × 5 g 
 +2 × 0.5 g  D -pinitol (LP) 
 +4 × 0.5 g  D -pinitol 
(HP) 
  D -Pinitol 2 × 0.5 g 
 D -pinitol 5 days prior to 
and during CrM (PreP)  After 4 days, whole-body 
Cr retention was greater in 
LP and PreP compared to 
HP, CrM only and P ( P  
< 0.05) 
 (% CrM retained 0 ± 0, 
61 ± 15, 83 ± 5, 61 ± 22, 
and 78 ± 9 % for P, CM, 
LP, HP, and pre-P groups) 
 Burke 
et al. [ 73 ]  Compared 
ALA + CrM + CHO 
to CrM + CHO and 
CrM only  Muscle [PCr and Cr] 
assessed before and 
after 5 days of 
intervention  CrM: 20 g · day −1  
 +100 g · day −1  sucrose 
(CrM + CHO) 
 +1000 mg · day −1  ALA 
(ALA + CrM + CHO)  After 5 days, greater 
increase in [PCr] and 
[total Cr] from 
ALA + CrM + CHO ( P  
< 0.05) compared to 
CrM + CHO and CrM only 
 (% increase for [PCr] 21, 
0, & 0 %; [total Cr] 13.8, 
2, & 4 % for 
ALA + CrM + CHO, 
CrM + CHO, and CrM, 
respectively) ( P  < 0.05) 
 Spillane 
et al. [ 57 ]  Compared 
maltodextrin 
placebo (PLA), 
CrM, and creatine 
ethyl ester (CEE)  Serum and muscle Cr 
assessed days 0, 6, 27, 
and 48 during a 4-day 
per week resistance- 
training program in 
young adult males  0.30 g/kg LBM for 5 
days followed by 
ingestion at 0.075 g/kg 
LBM for 42 days. Note 
CEE dose was double 
the manufacturer’s 
recommendation  Higher serum Cr 
concentrations in CrM 
( p  = 0.005) compared to 
CEE   Total muscle Cr 
content higher in CrM 
( p  = 0.026) and CEE 
( p  = 0.041) compared to 
PLA, CrM increased 
total muscle Cr levels at 
days 6 and 27. CEE only 
on day 27 
 Serum creatinine was 
greater in CEE compared 
to the PLA ( p  = 0.001) and 
CRT ( p  = 0.001) and 
increased at days 6, 27, 
and 48 
 Kerksick 
et al. [ 39 ]  Compared 
creatine + pinitol 
(CRP) or creatine 
monohydrate (CR)  Whole-body Cr 
retention via urine 
samples before during 
and after 4 weeks of 
resistance training  Loading phase (i.e., 
20 g/day 1 for 5 days) 
before ingesting 5 g/
day 1 the remaining 23 
days  Creatine retention 
increased ( p  < 0.001) in 
both groups as a result of 
supplementation but was 
not different between 
groups ( p  > 0.05) 
(continued)9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

198
9.3.1     Before Exercise 
 More recent guidelines recommend that athletes 
undertake their activity and daily training ses-
sions with high-CHO availability [ 95 ,  99 ]. This is 
based on clear evidence that strategies such as 
elevating pre-exercise muscle glycogen stores, 
consuming a pre-exercise CHO meal, or eating 
CHO during exercise increase endurance [ 93 ,  95 ] 
and performance [ 96 ,  99 ]. The concept of pro-
moting CHO availability resides in the manipula-
tion of the amount, type, and timing in the hours 
or days prior to and during the session and refuel-
ing recovery between sessions to provide athletes 
with practical recommendations. Choices that 
provide a high-CHO availability contain a com-
paratively high amount of energy and CHO, such 
as glucose (other sugars, polymers in sports 
drinks etc.). However, the extent of CHO avail-
ability is also often reﬂ  ected in the degree of ﬁ  ber 
and processing. In general, CHO choices toward 
the top of the list provide the most concentrated, 
easily assimilated source of fuel such as cereals 
and grain products. They are easily identiﬁ  ed via packaging and often an extensive ingredient list. 
Conversely, CHO choices with low availability 
generally contain a proportionally higher ﬁ  ber con-
tent (such as pulses and legumes) and/or a lower 
amount of energy and CHO (most vegetables). 
For a complete list and discussion on foods that 
promote CHO availability, refer to Cribb [ 98 ]. 
Athletes are often prescribed CHO recommen-
dations in grams per day to meet goals in their 
training phases. An advantage of the high or low 
availability classiﬁ  cation is the clear identiﬁ  ca-
tion and prescription of carb choices to either 
promote or restrict CHO availability to suit indi-
vidual needs and goals during each training phase. 
For example, the endurance athlete can make 
clear, conﬁ  dent selections based on their grams 
per day prescription to promote CHO availability 
in the days and hours leading up to and during 
sessions as well as strategic refueling after stren-
uous endurance-based activities to optimize gly-
cogen synthesis rates, particularly if the next bout 
of exercise is less than 8 h away. Conversely, 
many strength athletes characteristically restrict 
CHO intake during intense training [ 100 ,  101 ]. Table 9.1  (continued)
 Reference  Comparison  Assessment  Protocol  Main ﬁ  ndings 
 Jagim et al. 
[ 40 ]  Compared CrM 
with KA ( Kre-
Alkalyn)   low dose 
(KA-L) and higher 
dose (KA-H)  Muscle Cr content 0, 7, 
and 28 days during the 
participants’ own 
resistance-training 
program  CrM 4 × 5 g/day for 7 
days, maintenance (5 g/
day for 21 days) KA 
manufacturer’s 
recommended dose 
KA-L = 1.5 g/day for 28 
days. 
KA-H = equivalent 
loading to CrM  No overall differences 
were detected except 
KA-L did not increase 
muscle free creatine 
content to the same degree 
as loading and 
maintenance doses of CrM 
(KA-L −1.1 ± 4.3, CrM 
11.2 ± 4.3 mmol/kg DW, 
 p  = 0.053 KA-L 2.4 ± 8.5, 
CrM 24.6 ± 8.5 %, 
 p  = 0.078 
 Oliver et al. 
[ 81 ]  Compared RT 
extract or 500 mg 
placebo during 5 
days of CrM 
loading  Muscle Cr content and 
whole-body daily Cr 
retention  Double-blind, 
randomized, and 
crossover manner, 
500 mg of aqueous RT 
extract, or 500 mg 
placebo 30 min prior to 
ingesting 5 g of CrM 
twice per day for 5 
days, then repeated 
after a 6-week washout 
period  Whole-body daily Cr 
retention increased in both 
groups. However, the 
addition of RT did not 
enhance whole- body Cr 
retention or muscle free 
Cr content M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

199
One bout of resistance exercise can decrease 
muscle glycogen stores in the vicinity of 24–40 % 
[ 84 – 86 ], and extensive exercise- induced muscle 
damage can also affect glycogen uptake and syn-
thesis [ 102 ]. CHO availability can affect work 
capacity, some anabolic and muscle- speciﬁ  c cat-
abolic responses. The reader is recommended a 
more detailed discussion and application of CHO 
availability [ 98 ]. 
 Pre-exercise meals and supplementation have 
been a considerable focus of exercise research 
because of its impact on substrate utilization 
[ 103 – 105 ]. However, the respective cases for 
high- or low-glycemic index pre-exercise meals 
to optimize performance appears to be equivocal 
[ 106 ,  107 ] and might be negligible, as the oppor-
tunity to consume CHO during exercise seems to 
nullify any glycemic characteristics of pre- 
exercise meals [ 108 – 110 ]. It is presumed that 
CHO immediately before and during exercise can 
provide an additional fuel source that may spare 
muscle glycogen, prevent low blood glucose con-
centrations, attenuate effort perception, and ben-
eﬁ t the central nervous system as well as promote 
glycogen resynthesis during low-intensity peri-
ods [ 108 – 113 ]. Probably for these reasons, the 
investigation of CHO “fuel mixes” during exer-
cise has received considerable attention.  
9.3.2     During Exercise 
 Throughout the 1990s it was presumed that the 
oxidation (utilization) rate of exogenous CHO 
was a maximum of 60 g · h—larger amounts 
would likely not be metabolized and may cause 
gastrointestinal distress. However, most recent 
work suggests CHO intake rates can vary greatly 
among athletes, from 6 to 136 g · h, and variations 
at both ends of this scale can result in nausea and 
ﬂ atulence but also winning performances during 
ultra-endurance races [ 109 ]. Studies that have 
systematically tracked oxidation rates of various 
CHO sources and combinations now reveal that 
the rate limiting step in the oxidation of ingested 
CHO could be intestinal absorption, with limits 
on absorption of glucose in its various forms by 
the sodium-dependent glucose transporters (e.g., fructose via GLUT5 and glucose via SGLT1) 
[ 79 ,  114 ]. For example, limit on the absorption 
of glucose in its various forms via the sodium- 
dependent glucose transporter SGLT1 is ~1 g · min. 
When glucose is combined with fructose (a CHO 
with a different transporter), rates of ingested 
CHO can exceed 1.5 g · min. It appears that 
exogenous CHO oxidation to maintain power 
output when glycogen becomes depleted con-
verges at a CHO ingestion rate of 80–90 g · h at 
least when glucose and fructose are co-ingested 
in a 2:1 ratio [ 97 ]. Generally, ﬂ  uids/gels/bars that 
contain “multiple transporter CHOs” appear to 
be well tolerated [ 115 ,  116 ], promoting greater 
oxidation efﬁ  ciency (less CHO remaining in the 
gastrointestinal tract) [ 79 ,  114 – 117 ] and deliver-
ing high rates of CHO [ 116 ,  118 ] and perfor-
mance beneﬁ  ts when compared to glucose alone, 
particularly in activities lasting 3 or more hours 
[ 119 ,  120 ]. Based on this new information on 
CHO supplement combinations, new guidelines 
to promote individual experimentation with CHO 
intakes of up to 90 g · h in ultra-endurance sports 
have been proposed [ 93 ].  
9.3.3     Post-exercise Refueling 
 Rapid recovery for subsequent performance is a 
prerequisite for effective training and competi-
tion, and this predominately relies upon the resto-
ration of glycogen stores. Rapid restoration of 
glycogen stores is essential if exercise is required 
again within 24 h [ 95 ]. However, even for daily 
exercise, there is the real possibility that muscle 
glycogen would not be adequately replenished 
unless strategies are implemented. For example, 
pre-exercise muscle glycogen stores of endurance 
athletes are usually ~600 mm · kg · dry weight, and 
exhaustive exercise can deplete stores to 
30–55 mm · kg dry weight [ 87 ,  121 ,  122 ]. 
Post- exercise glycogen synthesis rates can vary 
from ~5 to 58 mm · kg · dry weight · h [ 122 – 124 ] 
depending on the type and amount of fuel con-
sumed. Therefore, maximum glycogen restora-
tion could be achieved efﬁ  ciently within 5–6 h or 
could take up to 48 h, depending upon the strate-
gies (or the lack of) implemented. The process of 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

200
refueling does appear to be highly dependent on 
the provision of nutrients. For example, a delay in 
CHO intake post-exercise could result in a 
decrease in glycogen synthesis of up to 50 % [ 123 ]. 
Conversely, strategies that involve the consump-
tion of rather high intakes (1.2 kg · h) report the 
highest rates for glycogen synthesis [ 93 – 95 ]. 
However, these amounts might not be practical 
for all athletes. 
 Combining a lower CHO intake with PRO 
supplements can assist with maximizing glyco-
gen stores. Reported rates of muscle glycogen 
resynthesis across nine studies that have com-
pared muscle glycogen storage over 2–6 h post- 
exercise with varied rates of CHO intake suggest 
that the addition of PRO to CHO intake (less than 
1.2 g · kg · h) will enhance muscle glycogen syn-
thesis [ 94 ]. CHO to PRO ratios of 4:1 have been 
suggested for refueling [ 93 ]. However, other 
ratios such as 2:1 or 3:1 may provide similar ben-
eﬁ ts, at least with regard to DOMS and markers 
of skeletal muscle damage [ 124 ]. In general, it 
appears that the addition of PRO to a CHO sup-
plement will increase the rate of muscle glycogen 
storage during the hours immediately after exer-
cise, particularly if the supplement contains a low 
to moderate amount of CHO. The combination of 
PRO and CHO may accelerate the rate of muscle 
glycogen storage possibly by activating glycogen 
synthesis by two different mechanisms. Firstly, 
this combination may raise plasma insulin levels 
beyond that typical of CHO alone, which may 
augment muscle glucose uptake and activate gly-
cogen synthase via insulin-dependent and 
insulin- independent pathways [ 88 ]. Thus, these 
combinations have an additive effect on the activ-
ity of this enzyme. Glucose, sucrose, and glucose 
polymer supplements as well as high-CHO avail-
ability whole-food sources are an effective means 
of replenishing muscle glycogen. However, the 
type of PRO (or amino acids) that may be best to 
combine with CHO has received less attention. 
Studies that have reported a beneﬁ  cial impact on 
muscle glycogen synthesis from the addition of 
PRO to a CHO supplement have utilized dairy 
sources [ 88 ,  125 ,  126 ] such as whey isolates [ 88 , 
 127 ] and hydrolyzed PRO supplements in con-
junction with insulin-promoting amino acids (AA) such as leucine and phenylalanine [ 128 ,  129 ]. In 
fact, studies that have examined this area directly 
suggests that insulin responses to PRO–CHO 
supplementation may be positively correlated 
with plasma concentrations of AA such as leu-
cine, phenylalanine, and tyrosine [ 129 ]. 
Therefore, the concentration of certain AA within 
the supplement may underline its ability to stim-
ulate insulin and, therefore, muscle glycogen 
restoration. 
 CrM, and more recently caffeine, has been 
documented as possible synergists that act with 
CHO to aid in glycogen synthesis rates [ 122 ]. In 
fact, Pedersen et al. [ 122 ] demonstrated the com-
bination of CHO + caffeine (2 × 4 mg · kg) post- 
exercise can improve glycogen synthesis rates to 
a greater extent than CHO + PRO or CHO alone. 
In fact, the glycogen synthesis rates for this com-
bination (~58 mmol · kg dry weight · h vs. 
38 mmol · kg dry weight · h for CHO only) are one 
of the highest recorded responses for post- 
exercise CHO consumption [ 122 ]. Taylor et al. 
[ 130 ] recently utilized a similar post-exercise 
CHO + caffeine timing strategy and reported a 
signiﬁ  cant improvement in a subsequent bout of 
high-intensity interval running [ 130 ]. However, 
the beneﬁ  ts need to be considered with associ-
ated side effects. Large doses of caffeine can pro-
duce nausea and disrupt sleep. 
 As discussed previously, supplementation 
with CrM promotes an ergogenic effect by 
enhancing PCr availability in muscle. However, 
another ergogenic effect from this supplement 
appears to be its positive impact on muscle glyco-
gen storage. Seven studies have measured muscle 
glycogen levels in humans after CrM supplemen-
tation, and six have reported a stimulatory effect 
[ 53 ,  60 ,  131 – 134 ]. Robinson et al. [ 53 ] ﬁ rst 
showed that CrM supplementation in conjunction 
with a high-CHO diet for 5 days (after a bout of 
exhaustive exercise) resulted in 23 % greater 
increase in muscle glycogen as compared with a 
high-CHO diet without CrM. Nelson et al. [ 131 ] 
reported that loading with CrM for 5 days 
enhanced a subsequent 3 days muscle glycogen- 
loading protocol by 12 %. Op ‘t Eijnde et al. 
[ 132 ] demonstrated that supplementation with 
CrM (20 g daily) had no effect on muscle glyco gen M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

201
stores during 2 weeks of leg immobilization. 
However, further administration (15 g daily) did 
enhance muscle glycogen levels (by 46 % greater 
than placebo) during 3 weeks of subsequent 
strength training. In a follow-up study that 
involved a similar protocol (and a 6-week train-
ing phase), these researchers reported that sup-
plementation with PRO (46 g) combined with 
CrM augmented post-training muscle glycogen 
by 35 % greater than placebo (but not CrM alone) 
[ 133 ,  134 ]. Van Loon et al. [ 134 ] demonstrated 
that a 5-day CrM-loading phase augmented mus-
cle glycogen by 14 % compared with no change 
in the placebo group. Furthermore, this study 
conﬁ rmed a signiﬁ  cant correlation between 
changes in muscle Cr (mean increase of 32 %) 
and muscle glycogen during the loading phase. 
This substantiates other work [ 131 – 133 ] that 
suggests signiﬁ  cant increase in muscle Cr is a 
prerequisite for enhanced muscle glycogen stor-
age [ 28 ]. Supplementation with CrM + CHO or 
PRO during exercise increases muscle glucose 
transporter (GLUT-4) expression and glycogen 
storage [ 132 ,  133 ]. Treatment with CrM has also 
been shown to increase total body water includ-
ing intracellular cell volume [ 135 ]. Changes in 
cell volume (cellular water content) have been 
shown to inﬂ  uence glycogen levels [ 136 ]. 
Therefore, the ability of CrM to inﬂ  uence 
GLUT-4 biogenesis and/or regulate cell volume 
may explain its beneﬁ  cial impact on muscle gly-
cogen storage. Overall, the ﬁ  ndings of these stud-
ies suggest that increasing muscle Cr (by ~20 %) 
via supplementation ensures a beneﬁ  cial impact 
on glycogen storage. However, for some athletes, 
careful consideration is needed when contem-
plating the addition of CrM. For example, load-
ing with CrM characteristically results in a 
1–3-kg gain in body weight (lean mass) [ 14 ,  20 –
 22 ,  24 ,  25 ]. This added mass may offset any 
potential ergogenic beneﬁ  t that might be 
achieved via boosting muscle glycogen stores. 
Therefore, in sports where any gain in body 
weight may disadvantage the athlete, the combi-
nation of PRO–CHO (without CrM) may be a 
more prudent choice to promote muscle glyco gen. 
However, for all athletes, alongside more efﬁ  cient 
glycogen restoration, another important advan tage of PRO–CHO post-exercise supplementation is 
this combinations’ well-documented effect on 
synthesis and muscle anabolism.   
9.4     Supplement Combinations 
to Enhance Muscle 
Anabolism 
 Any favorable adaptive change in muscle must 
involve alterations in protein turnover. That is, 
the difference between rates of muscle protein 
synthesis (MPS) and muscle protein breakdown 
(MPB) determines net protein balance (NPB) 
[ 137 ]. A single bout of resistance exercise results 
in the acute stimulation of MPS 50–100 % above 
basal values which peaks within 3 h and remains 
elevated at a diminishing rate for up to 48 h post- 
exercise [ 138 ,  139 ]. NPB after resistance exer-
cise remains negative, until nutrition, namely, a 
PRO source, is provided. The stimulation of MPS 
is the critical regulatory event in protein turnover 
that underlines changes in muscle mass [ 140 ]. 
The majority of acute-response investigations 
have shown that the consumption of amino acids/
PRO close to resistance exercise results in the 
ampliﬁ  cation of MPS, and the effect appears to 
be synergistic rather than simply additive [ 141 , 
 142 ]. A CHO supplement (glucose, other sugars, 
and polymers) alone, before, during, or after 
resistance exercise, does not appear to alter the 
MPS [ 143 ] response, but it may reduce myoﬁ  -
brillar breakdown [ 144 ,  145 ] and circulating 
cortisol which can correspond with a greater 
increase in muscle ﬁ  ber hypertrophy [ 146 ,  147 ]. 
Interestingly, the combination of a CHO supple-
ment (such as glucose) with essential amino acids 
(EAA) (6–40 g), before or after resistance exer-
cise, provides a synergistic effect on MPS and 
NPB that is much greater than either macronutri-
ent alone [ 148 – 150 ]. In fact, when this combina-
tion is consumed 1 or 3 h after a single bout of 
resistance exercise, MPS rates were shown to 
increase up to 400 % above pre-exercise values, 
the highest value ever recorded [ 142 ]. While 
earlier investigations reported positive effects 
from amino acids, it is now clear that intact PRO 
supplements such as whey, casein, soy, and even 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

202
whole milk evoke an anabolic response that can 
be similar in magnitude to free form amino acids 
[ 151 ,  152 ]. These acute-response investigations 
paved the way to more recent work that has 
examined the interaction of PRO–CHO supple-
mentation on the molecular events associated 
with the activation of MPS. 
9.4.1     Supplement Timing 
 For instance, the mTOR complex and its down-
stream mRNA translational signaling proteins 
(p70 S6K , eIF-2B, and 4E-BP1) appear to be the 
focal molecular intersection point in the cascade 
that results in very high rates of MPS [ 153 ]. The 
EAAs [ 154 ] and particularly the branched-chain 
amino acid (BCAA) [ 155 ] stimulate MPS inde-
pendently, directly via activation of this complex. 
Supplement timing with PRO–CHO ensures a 
higher activation of molecular events associated 
with increased MPS rates which is thought to 
underline improved adaptations from exercise, 
and these beneﬁ  ts are not exclusive to strength 
athletes [ 156 – 161 ]. For example, via the same 
molecular signaling pathway, PRO–CHO supple-
ment timing stimulates a greater increase in MPS 
in other high-intensity anaerobic exercise, such 
as sprints [ 157 ]. This strategy also selectively 
stimulates a greater increase in myoﬁ  brillar MPS 
following prolonged cycling, and this increase 
appears to be mediated via the mTOR complex 
[ 153 ]. A higher activation of the mTOR signaling 
pathway, via supplement timing with PRO–CHO, 
not only modulates MPS but also upregulates 
glycogen synthesis [ 159 ] to improve recovery 
and subsequent exercise performance [ 160 ]. 
Ferguson-Stegall et al. [ 156 ,  160 ] reported that a 
PRO–CHO supplement (in the form of low-fat 
chocolate milk) alters the phosphorylation lev-
els of this signaling cascade in a manner that 
accelerates muscle glycogen synthesis during 
recovery to improve performance in a subsequent 
bout of cycling exercise (see Sect.   8.1    : Delicious 
Combination). Therefore, supplement timing 
with PRO–CHO, in close proximity to aerobic 
and anaerobic exercise training, results in the 
higher activation of the molecular signaling  pathways that regulate muscle and glycogen 
synthesis. Additionally, strategies that promote 
and maintain muscle glycogen during exercise 
programs may provide the best chance of maxi-
mal activation of the signaling pathways that 
stimulate MPS during resistance exercise. 
 It is clear that the strategic intake of PRO–
CHO before and/or after intense exercise not 
only augments MPS, most importantly it shifts 
net protein balance to a positive state. This ana-
bolic response can be at least partly attributed to 
changes in the anabolic hormonal response pat-
tern of insulin. This PRO–CHO-induced stimula-
tion of insulin is important; it improves the 
anabolic response by increasing AA uptake and 
decreases the rate of muscle protein breakdown 
[ 142 ,  143 ,  145 ]. Despite over 15 years of investi-
gations, the research on supplementation’s ability 
to modulate anabolic hormones, such as growth 
hormone, IGF-1, and testosterone in a way that 
may lead to changes in strength and muscle mass, 
is at best equivocal [ 162 – 165 ]. More recent work 
suggests transient increases in endogenous ana-
bolic hormones do not enhance fed-state anabolic 
signaling or MPS following resistance exercise 
and quite possibly have little to do with strength 
and hypertrophy outcomes [ 166 ]. 
 The EAAs and particularly the BCAAs stimu-
late MPS independently, via a different pathway 
to insulin [ 159 ]. The BCAA leucine has a con-
trolling inﬂ  uence over the activation, but not the 
duration, of MPS [ 167 ]. Increasing the leucine 
concentration of a PRO serving (to ~40 %) can 
increase resting MPS [ 168 ] and post-exercise 
[ 169 ] as a high rate of MPS from feeding is the 
underlying mechanism for changes in muscle 
mass [ 140 ]. This lead to a ﬂ  urry of investigations 
that assessed the effects of adding leucine to PRO 
supplements in an attempt to augment MPS rates. 
However, several research groups have failed to 
achieve a greater elevation of MPS by adding 
leucine to a moderate dose of high-quality PRO 
(10–30 g) at rest [ 170 ] and post-exercise [ 171 , 
 172 ]. Glynn et al. [ 170 ] reported no added beneﬁ  t 
for resting human MPS in response to an optimal 
dose (10 g) of EAA that provided a higher con-
centration of leucine (3.5 g compared to 1.8 g). 
In fact, a low dose of whey PRO (6 g) with added M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

203
leucine or all other essential amino acids (to the 
equivalent of 25 g of whey PRO isolate) was not 
as effective as 25 g of whey PRO isolate alone at 
sustaining increased rates of MPS post-exercise 
[ 172 ]. These ﬁ  ndings are important because they 
show that an EAA proﬁ  le from high-quality PRO 
is sufﬁ  cient for stimulating MPS in humans and 
additional leucine does not provide added beneﬁ  t 
to MPS. Nevertheless, the ability of various PRO/
AA supplement combinations to augment the 
anabolic response to exercise may well be popu-
lation speciﬁ  c [ 173 ]. Combining PRO with leu-
cine to optimize MPS and anabolism may be a 
good strategy for populations such as the elderly 
but also military where larger PRO servings (20 g 
or more) are difﬁ  cult to incorporate into a feeding 
plan [ 174 ].   
9.5      Combinations that Enhance 
Aerobic/Anaerobic 
Performance 
 Caffeine is a naturally occurring substance that is 
a widely consumed in a variety of forms. Caffeine 
produces multiple physiological effects through-
out the body including increased catecholamine 
release and fat metabolism, resulting in glycogen 
sparing, increased intracellular Ca2+ release, 
inhibition of cAMP phosphodiesterase, and 
antagonism of adenosine receptors [ 175 ]. Several 
studies have demonstrated an improvement in 
exercise performance in submaximal endurance 
activities [ 81 ,  175 – 178 ], while its potential ergo-
genic effect in acute, high-intensity exercise is 
less clear in untrained individuals [ 175 ]. However, 
in a systematic review, studies using trained sub-
jects and models speciﬁ  c to intermittent sports 
activity support the idea that caffeine is poten-
tially ergogenic with anaerobic exercise [ 80 ]. 
Ephedrine was used as a CNS stimulant in China 
for centuries before its introduction to Western 
medicine in 1924 [ 179 ]. Ephedrine and its related 
alkaloids (mostly pseudoephedrine) are sympa-
thomimetic agents which stimulate the sympa-
thetic nervous system, increasing circulating 
catecholamines [ 180 ]. A number of studies 
have reported beneﬁ  cial effects on exercise  performance using ephedrine as the supplement 
[ 181 ,  182 ], whereas limited studies have reported 
beneﬁ  t utilizing the related alkaloids such as 
pseudoephedrine [ 183 ,  184 ]. This is most likely 
due to ephedrine’s direct adrenoceptor stimulat-
ing actions [ 185 ] and, therefore, is approximately 
2.5-fold more potent than pseudoephedrine 
[ 183 ]. Though both caffeine and ephedrine have 
demonstrated independent ergogenic effects on 
exercise performance, research published from 
Doug Bell and Ira Jacob’s lab at the Defense and 
Civil Institute of Environmental Medicine in 
Canada has reported in several instances that 
caffeine–ephedrine mixtures confer a greater 
ergogenic beneﬁ  t than either drug alone [ 181 , 
 186 – 189 ]. In a series of studies performed by 
Bell and Jacob [ 181 ,  186 – 188 ], enhancement of 
performance was observed during various exer-
cise modalities: submaximal steady-state aerobic 
exercise [ 188 ], short- and long-distance running 
[ 186 ,  188 ], and maximal anaerobic cycling [ 187 ]. 
The caffeine–ephedrine mixture was consumed 
1.5 to 2 h prior to exercise with a dosage range of 
4–5 mg/kg for caffeine and 0.8–1 mg/kg for 
ephedrine [ 181 ,  186 – 188 ]. However, it should be 
noted that dosages above this were shown to 
illicit negative side effects such as vomiting and 
nausea during the exercise test. With this in mind, 
Bell and colleagues recommended using the 
lower dosage of 4 mg/kg and 0.8 mg/kg for caf-
feine and ephedrine, respectively. Importantly, 
the lower dosage still provided an ergogenic 
effect similar in magnitude to those reported pre-
viously using the higher doses [ 190 ]. 
 Notwithstanding the independent effects from 
caffeine and ephedrine on metabolic and cardio-
vascular responses during exercise, no ergogenic 
effects on exercise performance were observed. 
However, when combined, exercise performance 
was signiﬁ  cantly enhanced in a variety of exer-
cise modalities. Researchers suggested that this is 
most likely due to ephedrine’s effect on arousal 
(i.e., decreasing rating of perceived exertion dur-
ing exercise), combined with caffeine’s ability to 
enhance muscle metabolism [ 188 ,  189 ,  191 ]. 
Indeed Williams et al. [ 192 ] were also able to 
show increased alertness and enhancement of 
mood following ingestion of similar doses of 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

204
caffeine (300 mg) and ephedra (60 mg) 45 min 
prior to exercise testing. However, despite these 
improvements, caffeine and/or ephedra was 
unable to enhance muscle strength, muscle 
endurance, and peak anaerobic power. Given the 
beneﬁ  cial effects of caffeine and ephedrine have 
predominately been observed in studies involv-
ing the Canadian military, it is clear that further 
research is needed to examine the practical appli-
cation in recreational athletes and untrained 
 individuals. However since 2006, all dietary 
 supplements containing ephedrine alkaloids are 
illegal for sale in the United States [ 193 ]. 
Therefore, until ephedrine and ephedrine alka-
loids are made legal again, very few studies if any 
are investigating the performance-enhancing 
effects of caffeine–ephedrine mixtures. 
 Recently, other ergogenic aids such as sodium 
bicarbonate (NaHCO3) and carbohydrate have 
also been used in combination with caffeine 
[ 194 – 196 ]. A recent systematic literature review 
examined the beneﬁ  t of co-ingestion of caffeine 
and carbohydrate ingestion on endurance- 
exercise performance [ 197 ]. Criteria for inclu-
sion were studies that used human subjects 
performing an endurance-exercise performance 
task and included both a carbohydrate and carbo-
hydrate–caffeine condition. Based on effect size 
analysis, the authors concluded that co-ingestion 
of carbohydrate and caffeine provides a signiﬁ  -
cant but small effect to improve endurance per-
formance compared to carbohydrate alone. This 
was also conﬁ  rmed in a recent study that showed 
that ingesting carbohydrate and caffeine 1 h 
before, prior to and during an intermittent sprint 
test (modiﬁ  ed version of the Loughborough 
Intermittent Shuttle Test), was effective at tran-
siently reducing fatigue and rating of perceived 
exertion while maintaining higher glucose levels 
at the ﬁ  nal stages of the exercise test [ 198 ]. 
Conversely, co-ingestion of caffeine and carbo-
hydrate was unable to improve high-intensity 
sprint cycling performance or reduce fatigue in 
active males. Interestingly, the combined caffeine 
and carbohydrate group demonstrated higher cor-
tisol levels during the prolonged high-intensity 
intermittent exercise suggesting higher catabo-
lism [ 196 ]. In contrast to the potential beneﬁ  ts of combining caffeine with carbohydrate, the com-
bination of caffeine with sodium bicarbonate 
seems to provide no added beneﬁ  t [ 194 ,  195 ]. 
Two recent studies used trained individuals to 
examine the combined effects of caffeine and 
sodium bicarbonate on high-intensity cycling 
performance and 2,000-m rowing performance 
[ 194 ,  195 ]. Despite independent beneﬁ  ts of sup-
plementation, co-ingestion provided no greater 
advantage. Interestingly, while both studies used 
the same dosage of sodium bicarbonate (0.3 g/kg 
body mass), only one study demonstrated nega-
tive side effects [ 194 ]. 
 The beneﬁ  ts of CrM to athletes are clear (Sect. 
  1.1    ). One proposed ergogenic beneﬁ  t is the 
capacity of CrM to help maintain normal muscle 
pH levels during high-intensity exercise by con-
suming excess hydrogen ions during ATP resyn-
thesis and thus possibly delaying fatigue (refer to 
Sidebar: the multifaceted role of the muscle PCr–
Cr system in exercise metabolism). The intake of 
sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO 3 ) has also been 
shown to prevent exercise-induced perturbations 
in acid–base balance; this has resulted in 
enhanced performance [ 199 – 201 ]. Mero and col-
leagues [ 202 ] examined the buffering capacity of 
sodium bicarbonate in combination with CrM on 
consecutive maximal swims. In a double-blind 
crossover procedure, competitive male and 
female swimmers completed, in a randomized 
order, two different treatments (placebo and a 
combination of CrM and sodium bicarbonate). 
Thirty days of washout period was given between 
treatments. Both treatments consisted of placebo 
or CrM supplementation (20 g per day) for 6 
days. In the morning of the seventh day, a pla-
cebo or sodium bicarbonate supplement (0.3 g 
per kg body weight) was taken 2 h prior to the 
warmup. Two maximal 100-m freestyle swims 
were performed with a passive recovery of 
10 min in between. The ﬁ  rst swim performances 
for both treatment groups were similar in time. 
However, the increase in time for the second 
swim performances was signiﬁ  cantly less in the 
combination group compared to the placebo. 
Further, mean blood pH was higher in the com-
bination group compared to the placebo group 
after supplementation on the test day. The data M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

205
 indicated that simultaneous supplementation of 
CrM and sodium bicarbonate enhances the buff-
ering capacity of the body and hence anaerobic 
performance [ 202 ]. In addition, using a similar 
CrM dosage but higher sodium bicarbonate dos-
age (0.3 g vs. 0.5 g per kg body weight), Barber 
and colleagues supported the beneﬁ  ts of co-
ingestion of CrM and sodium bicarbonate on 
high- intensity, intermittent exercise in trained 
cyclists [ 203 ]. 
 In summary, it is evident that when nutritional 
supplements with complimentary independent 
ergogenic effects are combined together, addi-
tional beneﬁ  ts can be attained. Caffeine–ephed-
rine, caffeine–carbohydrate, and CrM/sodium 
bicarbonate supplement mixtures have shown in 
research to provide an acute physiological 
response that enhances anaerobic and/or aerobic 
exercise. However, a number of limitations exist 
with both supplements. As mentioned, further 
research is needed to examine the practical appli-
cation of caffeine–ephedrine combination in rec-
reational athletes and untrained individuals, since 
most of the research has been performed in mili-
tary soldiers. However, given the ban on selling 
ephedra products in the United States in 2006, it 
is unlikely that more research into the ergogenic 
potential of ephedra is unlikely. While sodium 
bicarbonate is a legal supplement, limited studies 
have examined its ergogenic effects on exercise 
performance when combined with CrM, and 
thus, further investigation is needed to conﬁ  rm 
such observations.   
 Sidebar 
 Delicious Combination: The Efﬁ  cacy of 
Low-Fat Chocolate Milk as a Post-exercise 
Carbohydrate–Protein Supplement 
 Lisa Ferguson-Stegall, Ph.D. 
 We examined the effects of a common 
and popular dairy beverage, low-fat choco-
late milk, as a carbohydrate–protein sup-
plement, and investigated its effects on 
recovery, as well as in adaptations to train-
ing [ 156 ,  160 ].  We ﬁ  rst investigated the effects of 
choc olate milk, compared to carbohydrate 
and placebo, on recovery from an acute 
exercise bout and subsequent cycling time 
trial performance [ 156 ]. Ten trained cyclists 
rode a 90-min glycogen depletion ride, fol-
lowed by a 4-h recovery period in the labo-
ratory. During this recovery time, the 
participants ingested chocolate milk, isoca-
loric carbohydrate, or placebo immediately 
post-exercise and again 2 h later. Muscle 
biopsies were taken to measure muscle 
glycogen resynthesis rates, as well as sig-
naling protein activation states during 
recovery. After the 4-h recovery, the cyclists 
performed a 40-km time trial (TT) at race 
effort. We found that time trial perfor-
mance was signiﬁ  cantly faster when the 
subjects consumed the chocolate milk dur-
ing recovery compared to the carbohydrate 
or the placebo supplements, although mus-
cle glycogen restoration was not different 
between the chocolate milk and carbohy-
drate treatments. We also found that the 
proteins that control protein synthesis were 
activated to a greater extent after ingesting 
the chocolate milk beverage than the carbo-
hydrate or placebo. Therefore, chocolate 
milk was shown to be a highly effective 
recovery supplement when ingested imme-
diately and 2 h post-exercise [ 156 ]. From 
these results, we hypothesized that if choc-
olate milk were ingested post-exercise dur-
ing an endurance training program, training 
adaptations would be signiﬁ  cantly greater 
than if supplementing with carbohydrate 
only or nothing at all after each workout. 
 To test our hypothesis, we investigated 
the effects of consuming chocolate milk, 
isocaloric carbohydrate, or placebo after 
daily aerobic endurance sessions over a 
4-week training program in healthy, but 
untrained subjects [ 160 ]. The average age 
was 22.0 ± 0.5 years, and average weight 
was 71.7 ± 2.4 kg. The average baseline 
(continued)(continued)
(continued)9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

206
9.6       Chronic Adaptations: 
Supplement Combinations 
that Promote Muscle 
Hypertrophy and Strength 
 In 1996, the formative work of Dr. Richard 
Kreider’s research group rejuvenated a stale 
and benign topic by demonstrating that a CrM- 
containing supplement could signiﬁ  cantly 
enhance strength and lean mass in resistance- 
trained individuals in less than a month. 
Utilizing 25 NCAA division IA football play-
ers, Kreider et al. [ 25 ] demonstrated that 28 
days of supplementation with CrM–CHO (con-
taining 99 g · day −1  glucose, 15.75 g · day −1  
CrM) resulted greater ( P  < 0.05) gains in dual-
energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)-
determined body mass and lean (fat-/bone-free) 
body mass (LBM) compared to an equivalent 
dose of CHO. Treatment with CrM–CHO also 
resulted in greater total bench press, squat, and 
power clean lifting volume and sprint perfor-
mance [ 25 ]. This seminal work fueled a subse-
quent explosion of studies that examined the 
effects of various CrM- containing supplements 
on the chronic adaptations desired from resis-
tance training. Burke et al. [ 57 ] assessed 
strength and LBM changes after 6 weeks of 
resistance exercise while ingesting a supple ment VO 2max  was 35.9 ± 1.9 ml/kg/min (absolute 
VO 2max  = 2.6 ± 0.2 L/min). The participants 
were randomized into three groups: choco-
late milk, carbohydrate, and placebo. The 
participants cycled at 75–80 % VO 2max  for 
60 min/day, 5 days/week for 4.5 weeks. 
Immediately upon completion of each 
cycling session, and again 1 h later, they 
ingested their supplemental beverage. The 
chocolate milk and carbohydrate beverages 
contained the same amount of energy and 
were matched for the small fat content. The 
placebo was artiﬁ  cially colored and ﬂ  a-
vored, but contained no calories. The bev-
erages were prepared according to the body 
weights of the subjects, such that chocolate 
milk provided an average of 0.94 g carbo-
hydrate, 0.31 g protein, and 0.17 g fat per 
kg body weight. The carbohydrate supple-
ment provided an average of 1.25 g carbo-
hydrate and 0.17 g fat per kg body weight. 
After 4.5 weeks of training, all three groups 
demonstrated signiﬁ  cant increases in abso-
lute and relative VO 2max . The average abso-
lute VO 2max  (L/min) increase for all subjects 
in the three treatment groups combined 
was 9.2 %. However, the most profound 
and exciting ﬁ  nding of this study was that 
the increase in both absolute and relative 
VO 2max  was signiﬁ  cantly greater in the 
chocolate milk group compared to carbo-
hydrate and placebo groups (Fig.  9.2a, b  ). 
The average increase in absolute VO 2max  for 
the chocolate milk group was 12.5 % 
higher than baseline levels, a twofold 
improvement over the increase found in the 
carbohydrate and placebo groups. Muscle 
oxidative capacity (measured by citrate 
synthase and succinate dehydrogenase 
activity, as well as PGC-1 α content) and 
lactate threshold improved signiﬁ  cantly in 
all treatment groups, with no differences 
found between treatments.  
 This suggests that the adaptations that 
lead to increased VO 2max  in the chocolate milk group was cardiovascular rather than 
cellular in nature. We also found that the 
chocolate milk group experienced greater 
gains in lean tissue, along with greater 
reduction in fat mass after only 4.5 weeks 
of aerobic endurance training. Thus, the 
dairy treatment improved body composi-
tion compared to carbohydrate or placebo 
supplementation, which is a novel ﬁ  nding 
[ 160 ]. In summary, whether an individual 
is training for elite competition, or exercis-
ing regularly to improve ﬁ  tness, body com-
position, and health, chocolate milk can be 
used as an effective—and delicious—post-
exercise recovery beverage. 
(continued)(continued)M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

207
containing CrM and PRO (1.2 g whey · kg · day −1 , 
0.1 g CrM · kg · day −1 , 6 weeks) in comparison to 
a similar dose of PRO (whey) or CHO (malto-
dextrin) (1.2 g · kg · day −1 ). LBM increased to a 
greater extent in the CrM–PRO group com-
pared to PRO or CHO alone. Bench press 
strength also increased to a greater extent in the 
CrM–PRO group compared to the PRO and 
CHO only groups, but all other strength/power 
measures increased to a similar extent [ 57 ]. The 
effectiveness of adding CrM to a PRO–CHO 
supplement on the development of strength and muscle mass was conﬁ  rmed by another research 
group [ 56 ,  204 ]. Like Kreider et al. [ 24 ,  25 ] and 
Burke et al. [ 57 ], Cribb et al. [ 204 ] utilized 
experienced lifters to demonstrate a greater 
( P  < 0.05) muscle hypertrophy response from 
the combination of CrM–PRO–CHO that was 
evident at three different levels of physiology. 
That is, compared to PRO–CHO and PRO alone 
(1.5 g · kg · day −1 ), the CrM–PRO–CHO treat-
ment demonstrated a greater gain in LBM, 
hypertrophy of the type-IIa and type-IIx 
fibers, and increase in contractile protein [ 204 ]. 
  Fig. 9.2    VO 2max  changes after 4.5 weeks of aerobic endur-
ance training. ( a ) Change from baseline in absolute 
VO 2max . ( b ) Change from baseline in relative VO 2max . Values are mean ± SE. Signiﬁ  cant treatment differences: 
*, CM vs. PLA and CHO ( P  < 0.05)        9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

208
This research is particularly relevant as very few 
studies involving exercise and supplementation 
have conﬁ  rmed improvements in body composi-
tion alongside hypertrophy responses at the 
cellular (i.e., ﬁ  ber-speciﬁ  c hypertrophy) and sub-
cellular level (i.e., contractile protein content) 
[ 56 ,  60 ,  204 ]. Deﬁ  nitely not all investigations 
support the hypothesis that a CrM-containing 
PRO–CHO supplement provides greater adapta-
tions than supplementation with a similar amount 
of nitrogen and energy. However, it is interesting 
to note that often untrained populations have 
been involved [ 58 ,  205 ,  206 ]. While the inﬂ  uence 
of training status on the effects of supplementa-
tion is unknown, it has been speculated that 
trained individuals might experience more efﬁ  -
cient muscle Cr uptake as exercise training is 
associated with improved insulin sensitivity [ 36 ]. 
Therefore, resistance- trained individuals may 
theoretically experience greater adaptations from 
supplementation [ 36 ]. 
9.6.1     Compounds of Potential 
 Aside from PROs and CHO, other compounds 
with purported ergogenic potential have been 
examined in combination with CrM during resis-
tance training. However, in terms of absolute 
strength and body composition changes, the ben-
eﬁ t of the supplement combination has seldom 
exceeded the results achieved from CrM treat-
ment alone. For example, when compared with 
CrM only (0.22 g · kg · day −1 ), supplementation 
with a combination of pyruvate and CrM during 
5 weeks of resistance training provided no 
greater beneﬁ  t with regard to gains in body mass, 
LBM, 1RM strength, power output, and force 
development (vertical jump test) [ 207 ]. Likewise, 
studies that have examined the effects of com-
bining CrM with magnesium [ 208 ], β-hydroxy-
β- methylbutyrate (HM β) [ 209 ,  210 ], or β-alanine 
[ 211 ,  212 ] have shown no greater ergogenic 
effect compared to treatment with CrM alone. 
This is somewhat surprising as recent years 
have seen a strong accumulation of research-
based beneﬁ  ts with HM β and β-alanine regard-
ing muscle anabolism and ergogenics [ 213 – 216 ]. For example, Hoffman et al. [ 216 ] completed a 
6-week training/supplementation study involving 
a CrM-, CrM+ β-alanine-, and a placebo-treated 
group. Both the CrM and CrM+ β-alanine groups 
demonstrated signiﬁ  cantly better gains in 1RM 
strength and LBM than the placebo group, but no 
differences were detected between the two CrM- 
treated groups [ 216 ]. However, there were trends 
for better gains in LBM in the group given CrM+ 
β-alanine. Additionally, this group tended to 
show greater (average) training volumes for the 
bench press and squat exercises. If the study was 
of longer duration, it is possible that the greater 
amount of work completed by this group may 
have had an effect on strength development and 
lean tissue accruement. Recently Baier et al. [ 214 ] 
used 77 elderly men and women to report that 
HMβ (a leucine metabolite) in combination with 
 L -arginine and  L -lysine resulted in a 1.6 % 
increase in body cell mass (BIA) ( P  = 0.002) and 
lean mass (DEXA) by 1.2 % ( P  = 0.05) increase 
in lean body mass over a 1-year period [ 214 ], 
compared with no change in lean mass in a 
similar group of men and women receiving an 
isonitrogenous control supplement. Subjects 
weighing 68 kg or less were assigned a single 
dosage of 2 g of HM β, 5 g of  L -arginine, and 
1.5 g of  L -lysine per day. Those subjects weigh-
ing > 68 kg were assigned a single daily dosage 
of 3 g of HM β, 7.5 g of  L -arginine, and 2.25 g of 
 L -lysine. The control group received a similar 
orange-tasting isonitrogenous and isocaloric 
drink consisting of a mixture of nonessential 
amino acids. Rates of whole-body protein ﬂ  ux, 
proteolysis, and protein synthesis were estimated 
using urinary  15  N-urea and  15  N-ammonia enrich-
ments in a subgroup [ 214 ]. Lowery et al. [ 215 ] 
recently used a free acid form of HM β (HMβ-FA) 
combined with ATP (400 g) during 12 weeks of 
structured resistance training. In a double-
blind, placebo- and diet-controlled study, the 
research ers reported that the combination of 
HMβ-FA with ATP enhanced LBM, power, and 
strength ( p  < 0.001) in power-trained individuals. 
Moreover, during an overreaching phase of the 
trial, this supplement blunted a typical decre-
ment in performance as evidenced by a further 
increase in strength during that period [ 215 ]. M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

209
Based on the amount of research-based beneﬁ  ts 
recently published on HM β and β-alanine’s 
potential to augment muscle anabolism and per-
formance, more research in combination with 
CrM on various population groups is warranted.  
9.6.2     Industry Trends and Future 
Directions 
 Supplement timing, the strategic intake of PRO 
and/or AA with CHO close to resistance exer-
cise, ensures a higher activation of molecular 
events associated with increased MPS and glyco-
gen storage rates to improve recovery and adapta-
tions. Of the many investigations that have 
examined strength and body composition from a 
nutrient intervention close to resistance exercise, 
a substantial number, but deﬁ  nitely not all, sup-
port the idea that strategic supplementation close 
to resistance exercise can enhance training adap-
tations, even when daily protein intake is ade-
quate [ 98 ]. However, of these studies, less than a 
handful have addressed whether strategic intake 
close to resistance exercise offers clear advan-
tages to other times outside the immediate hours 
surrounding a workout [ 60 ,  217 ,  218 ]. Of these 
three investigations, only two used resistance- 
trained individuals [ 60 ,  217 ] and only one has 
examined the effects of supplement timing at 
three levels of physiology—whole-body, cellular 
and subcellular [ 60 ]. Other differences included 
the type of nutrition, dosing protocol (training vs. 
non-training days), energy and macronutrient 
intake, as well as the resistance exercise program 
itself—each of these variables should be care-
fully considered in future resistance exercise 
training studies involving supplement timing. 
 The source of PRO acutely affects muscle 
amino acid uptake and net protein balance fol-
lowing resistance exercise. This appears to be 
related not only to amino acid composition but 
also to the pattern of amino acid delivery to 
peripheral tissues. For example, dairy milk PRO 
sources are shown to be more effective at sup-
porting protein accretion than soy [ 219 ]. Whey is 
a collective term that encompasses a range of 
soluble fractions found in dairy milk. In supple ment form, whey PRO is considered a “fast- absorbing” 
PRO based on studies that have shown consump-
tion (20–30 g) instigates a rapid but transient 
increase in blood amino acid levels and stimu-
lates a high rate of MPS [ 151 ,  152 ,  220 ]. On the 
other hand, casein (the other major dairy milk 
PRO) is more slowly absorbed from the gut and 
manifests a lower but sustained increase in blood 
amino acids for several hours [ 151 ,  152 ,  221 ]. 
These attributes suggest that the combination 
of whey and casein may be most beneﬁ  cial in 
supporting muscle anabolism and increasing 
muscle mass during the course of an intense 
(high-overload) resistance-training program. In 
young, healthy adults, a blend of whey and casein 
(30 g) taken post-exercise has been shown to 
result in greater hypertrophy of the type I and II 
muscle ﬁ  bers [ 222 ] and the greatest ( P  < 0.05) 
increase in DEXA-determined LBM [ 223 ]. The 
whey PRO supplements used in these investiga-
tions are generally isolates (90 % + PRO) and 
concentrates (80 % + PRO). However, the degree 
of hydrolysis of the material (be it casein or 
whey) can affect absorption/digestion kinetics. 
While the supplement combination of whey and 
casein appears to be effective at promoting lean 
mass during resistance training, no studies have 
examined what type or ratio is most beneﬁ  cial. 
Whether or not the addition of certain amino 
acids will optimize the effects of the supplement 
blend also remains unclear. 
 The combination of select amino acids with 
whole PRO supplements and CHO might be the 
best for the prolonged activation of MPS. For 
example, 10 years ago Borshiem et al. [ 150 ] 
reported that the combination of whey (17.5 g), 
free from AA (4.9 g), and CHO (77.4 g) stimu-
lated net MPS to a greater extent than isoener-
getic CHO supplement after resistance exercise. 
The authors also concluded that the addition of 
whole PRO to the AA-CHO supplement pro-
longed the anabolic response observed in previ-
ous studies with AA-CHO mixtures. This has 
inevitably led us to the newest trend in sports 
supplement research—the assessment of multi- 
ingredient performance supplements (MIPS). 
Now is in an era of MIPS proprietary blends con-
taining intact PRO sources, amino acids, CrM, 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

210
β-alanine, vitamins, and root extracts purported 
to enhance the neuromuscular adaptations of 
resistance training [ 224 – 226 ]. While the data on 
the safety and efﬁ  ciency on these products under 
the rigor of scientiﬁ  c investigation is always wel-
coming, it is important to identify if the intricate 
and often extensive formulation has been exam-
ined against one of the active (generic) ingredi-
ents listed such as CrM.   
9.7     Combinations Shown 
to Enhance Anaerobic/
Aerobic Exercise 
Performance 
 As previously mentioned in Sect.  6 , oral β-alanine 
supplementation has shown to improve submaxi-
mal cycle ergometry performance and time to 
exhaustion [ 227 ], delay the onset of neuromuscu-
lar fatigue during incremental cycle ergometry 
[ 212 ], and/or increase the amount of work com-
pleted during high-intensity exercise (cycling to 
exhaustion at 110 % of estimated power maxi-
mum) [ 211 ]. Though carnosine, but more impor-
tantly β-alanine supplementation, may be an 
important physiological factor in determining 
high-intensity exercise performance, several 
studies suggest that it could also potentially 
enhance CrM’s buffering capacity and thus pro-
vide additional ergogenic effects [ 211 ]. The 
potential synergistic effect of β-alanine and CrM 
supplementation was examined on various indi-
ces of cardiorespiratory endurance in healthy 
males [ 228 ]. Supplementation groups included 
CrM only (5.25 g), β-alanine only (1.6 g), CrM 
and β-alanine (5.25 g CrM, 1.6 g β-alanine plus 
34 g of dextrose), and dextrose placebo. 
Following 28 days of supplementation, CrM and 
β-alanine independently showed improvements 
in two contributing factors (power output at ven-
tilatory threshold and time to exhaustion) and one 
(power output at lactate threshold) of the physio-
logical parameters measured, respectively. 
However when combined, supplementation 
resulted in improvements in 5 of the 8 physiolog-
ical parameters measured (including percent 
VO 2peak  associated with the lactate threshold and ventilatory threshold) during the incremental 
cycle ergometry test. While it is important to reit-
erate that the improvements were not signiﬁ  cant 
when compared between groups, it was evident 
by a signiﬁ  cant time effect within groups that the 
combination of CrM and β-alanine was greater at 
possibly delaying the onset of the fatigue and 
thus potentially enhancing endurance perfor-
mance [ 228 ]. In contrast, using the same cohort 
of participants, Stout et al. [ 212 ] examined the 
onset of neuromuscular fatigue by using the 
physical working capacity at neuromuscular 
fatigue threshold test. Despite an independent 
beneﬁ  t of β-alanine on delaying the onset of 
neuromuscular fatigue, there was not additive 
beneﬁ  t of β-alanine and CrM supplementation. 
Similarly but in trained power/strength athletes, 
Hoffman and colleagues [ 216 ] failed to show any 
differences in strength (maximum bench press 
and squat) and power (Wingate anaerobic power 
test, 20-jump test) when CrM and β-alanine were 
supplemented together. However, CrM and 
β-alanine appeared to have a greater effect on 
lean tissue accruement and body fat composition 
compared to CrM alone. Taken together, despite 
the well- known independent buffering effects of 
β-alanine and CrM and some promising results 
when combining both supplements together, it is 
surprising that there have not been more investi-
gations since 2006. Thus, further studies are 
clearly warranted to conﬁ  rm the abovementioned 
effects of β-alanine and CrM supplementation on 
exercise performance and potential training 
adaptations. 
 Recently, the emergence of chronic β-alanine 
supplementation followed by acute sodium bicar-
bonate ingestion has gained popularity [ 229 –
 236 ]. Intramuscular H +  is buffered through the 
intracellular buffers (e.g., phosphates and carno-
sine), extracellular buffers (e.g., bicarbonate), 
and dynamic buffering system (i.e., the transport 
of H +  outside the cells). As mentioned previously 
in Sects.  5  and  6 , several investigations have 
shown increased intracellular and extracellular 
buffering capacity, achieved via acute or chronic 
sodium bicarbonate ingestion or chronic 
β-alanine supplementation, respectively, which 
can improve anaerobic exercise performance and M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

211
capacity. Given that both sodium bicarbonate and 
β-alanine exert their buffering effects in different 
compartments (i.e., outside and inside the muscle 
cells, respectively), it is conceivable that the 
combined use of these two supplements would 
have additive effects on high-intensity perfor-
mance. Studies published in the past 10 years 
examining the additive beneﬁ  ts of β-alanine and 
sodium bicarbonate supplementation have 
been promising. Using similar supplementation 
protocols (4–6 weeks, 2–6.4 g per day of 
β-alanine + 200–500 mg of sodium bicarbonate), 
a number of studies have shown positive beneﬁ  ts 
(although not always statistically signiﬁ  cant) in a 
variety of exercise performance modalities such 
as 2,000 m rowing performance [ 233 ], cycling 
capacity [ 231 ,  232 ], and high-intensity intermit-
tent upper-body performance [ 236 ]. In contrast, 
others using similar exercise modalities failed to 
show any additive beneﬁ  t [ 229 ,  235 ]. 
 Speciﬁ  c combinations of amino acids—in 
particular branched-chain amino acids (leucine, 
isoleucine, valine), arginine, and glutamine—
have been shown to improve indices of muscle 
function, damage, and recovery both during and 
following exercise in college track athletes (mid-
dle- and long-distance runners) [ 237 ,  238 ] and 
rugby players [ 239 ]. The amino acid mixture (% 
of total protein in grams) used for each study 
[ 237 – 239 ] consisted of  L -glutamine (14 %), 
 L -arginine (14 %),  L -leucine,  L -isoleucine, 
 L -valine (total BCAA: 30 %),  L -threonine, 
 L -lysine,  L -proline,  L -methionine,  L -histidine, 
 L -phenylalanine, and  L -tryptophan, with total 
protein varying from 2.2 to 7.2 g/day. Ohtani and 
colleagues [ 237 ] examined the effects of a daily 
dose of an amino acid mixture (mentioned above) 
on a middle- and long-distance runners engaging 
in sustained exercise for 2–3 h/day, 5 days/week 
for 6 months. During the 6-month period, sub-
jects received three 1-month dosage treatments 
(2.2, 4.4, and 6.6 g/day), separated by a washout 
month between each trial. The 2.2 g/day dose 
was administered as a single dose at dinner; the 
4.4 g/day dose was administered as two 2.2 g 
doses at breakfast and dinner; the 6.6 g/day dose 
was given as three 2.2 g doses, one at each daily 
meal. Results showed that the AA mixture at the daily dose of 6.6 g had the greatest effects, 
improving the self-assessment of the physical 
condition, reducing muscle damage, and enhanc-
ing hematopoiesis measures, which possibly sug-
gests improved oxygen-handling capacity [ 237 ]. 
 A similar study [ 239 ] examined the effects of 
the same AA mixture, but at a higher dosage 
(7.2 g/day), on rugby players for 3 months during 
a period of intensive physical training. Athletes 
maintained a regular training schedule with their 
teammates before, during, and after the 90-day 
trial period. The subjects were instructed to take 
a 3.6-g dose of the AA mixture after morning and 
evening meals every day for 90 days. Results 
from both studies [ 237 ,  239 ] suggest that the 
long-term administration of the AA mixture may 
increase the production of red blood cells, thereby 
perhaps enhancing the capacity of the blood to 
carry oxygen. Furthermore, these highly trained 
athletes reported that the long-term intake of the 
AA mixture produced a favorable effect on their 
physical ﬁ  tness. In contrast to trained athletes, a 
recent study [ 240 ] demonstrated signiﬁ  cant 
increases in treadmill time to exhaustion in 
healthy untrained women following 6 weeks of 
essential amino acid supplementation. The essen-
tial amino acid composition per 10 g consisted of 
 L -isoleucine 1.483 g,  L -leucine 1.964 g,  L -valine 
1.657 g,  L -lysine 1.429 g,  L -methionine 0.699 g, 
 L -phenylalanine 1.289 g,  L -threonine 1.111 g, 
and  L -tryptophan 0.368 g. Subjects consumed on 
average 128 g of amino acids per week, or 18.3 g 
daily. It is clear from the results of the current 
study, taken together with the previous studies 
[ 237 – 239 ], that branched-chain amino acids 
when combined with other essential or nonessen-
tial amino acids have a beneﬁ  cial effect during 
and following aerobic exercise performance. 
Although these results are interesting and pro-
vide practical application to most athletes when 
training or competing, a limitation to these stud-
ies is that the results were obtained in comparison 
to an isocaloric sugar (dextrin) placebo and not 
an equivalent dose of other amino acids or pro-
teins. Thus, further research is needed to deter-
mine whether these speciﬁ  c amino acid 
combinations are more advantageous than regu-
lar protein supplements at improving indices of 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

212
muscle function, damage, and recovery during 
and following exercise. 
 In summary, CrM/ β-alanine and the use of 
speciﬁ  c amino acid combinations have demon-
strated in research to inﬂ  uence chronic adapta-
tions that has enhanced exercise performance 
(predominantly aerobic exercise). More 
recently, β-alanine/sodium bicarbonate supple-
mentation has demonstrated in research to 
improve anaerobic performance and capacity in 
trained and untrained individuals. However, 
similar to the combinations mentioned in Sect. 
  1.4    , there are a number of limitations that also 
exist for these supplements. Firstly, very limited 
research has proven the beneﬁ  cial effects of 
CrM/ β-alanine supplementation on exercise 
performance. Therefore, until further research is 
conducted, we can only speculate as to whether 
combining CrM and β-alanine provides addi-
tional beneﬁ  t compared to the independent 
effects from either supplement alone. Secondly, 
while the combination of speciﬁ  c amino acids 
such as branched-chain amino acids (leucine, 
isoleucine, valine), arginine and glutamine, has 
shown to improve exercise performance, further 
research is needed to determine whether these 
speciﬁ  c amino acid combinations are more 
advantageous than regular protein supplements 
as the results obtained to date are in comparison 
to an isocaloric sugar (dextrin) placebo and not 
an equivalent dose of other amino acids or pro-
teins. Finally, while the additive beneﬁ  ts of 
chronic β-alanine  supplementation followed by 
acute sodium bicarbonate ingestion may 
enhance the intracellular and extracellular buff-
ering capacity and thus improve performance, 
further research is needed to conﬁ  rm recent 
results as a number of studies have shown only 
minor, statistically nonsigniﬁ  cant effects.  
9.8     Conclusion 
 The focus of this chapter was supplement combi-
nations and dosing strategies that are effective at 
promoting either an acute physiological response 
that may improve/enhance exercise performance or inﬂ  uence chronic adaptations desired from 
training. The main conclusions are as follows:
•    The capacity of CrM to augment the phospho-
creatine system and provide an ergogenic or 
physiological beneﬁ  t under a variety of condi-
tions is well documented. The ability of CrM 
to enhance energetics and anabolism resides 
in the accumulation of Cr in the muscle cell. 
Variability with regard to dose–responses and 
muscle uptake among individuals has led to 
increasing interest in combinations that may 
improve muscle Cr accumulation in response 
to supplementation  
•   Probably due to an insulin-stimulating effect 
on the cellular Cr transporter, combining each 
dose of CrM (5–10 g) with insulin-stimulating 
CHO (20–50 g) with or without whey or other 
dairy isolates (up to 1.5 g · kg −1  day −1 ) still 
appears to be the most effective strategy that 
promotes Cr accumulation within muscle. The 
combination of PRO and CHO is particularly 
effective when smaller doses of these macro-
nutrients are desired. Taking a dose of CrM in 
a PRO–CHO supplement close to exercise 
may also promote effective Cr accumulation, 
glycogen replenishment, and adaptations from 
exercise.  
•   Insulin mimickers are compounds  D -pinitol, 
α-linoleic acid (ALA), and herbals that may 
work like insulin to promote Cr uptake. 
However, to date all have failed to deliver 
clear evidence of their effectiveness to enhance 
muscle Cr accumulation, and none show any 
greater efﬁ  ciency than that of PRO–CHO 
combinations to enhance muscle Cr content.  
•   Cr has been combined with different organic 
acids to form Cr salts with the intention of 
using acids that will create a synergistic effect 
or simply improve the properties. While 
several investigations have used Cr salts to 
demonstrate a performance-enhancing effect, 
very few of these investigations have been able 
to show clear advantages over CrM. Similarly, 
despite marketing claims, the research on 
novel Cr supplements such as phosphate, Cr 
serum, buffered Cr, Cr PEG, and Cr ethyl M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

213
ester has failed to show any clear beneﬁ  t or 
advantage over CrM.  
•   The respective cases for high- or low- glycemic 
index pre-exercise meals to optimize perfor-
mance appear to be equivocal. More recent 
guidelines recommend that athletes undertake 
their activity and daily training sessions with 
high-CHO availability. The concept of pro-
moting carbohydrate (CHO) availability 
resides in the manipulation of the amount, 
type, and timing in the hours or days prior to 
and during the session and refueling recovery 
between sessions to provide athletes with 
practical recommendations  
•   The consumption of CHO fuel mixes before 
and during exercises has received consider-
able attention. When glucose is combined 
with fructose, a CHO with a different trans-
porter, rates of ingested CHO can exceed pre-
viously determined oxidation rates. When 
glucose and fructose are co-ingested in a 2:1 
ratio, in ﬂ  uids, gels, and bars, these “multiple 
transporter” CHO fuel mixes appear to be well 
tolerated, promoting greater oxidation efﬁ  -
ciency (less CHO remaining in the gastroin-
testinal tract) and performance beneﬁ  ts when 
compared to glucose alone, particularly in 
activities lasting 3 or more hours.  
•   The rapid restoration of muscle glycogen 
stores is a critical issue for all athletes who 
undertake training or competition sessions on 
the same or successive days. However, pro-
moting supercompensatory glycogen levels 
might only be of beneﬁ  t to very select 
 endurance events. When considering nutri-
tional combinations that promote glycogen 
synthesis and restoration, it is important to 
remember that high glycogen values can be 
achieved without a depletion phase and with 
as little as 24–36 h of rest and high CHO 
intake (10/kg/day). If short-term high-CHO 
loading (~10–12 g/kg/day) protocols do not 
suit all athletes’ circumstances, combining a 
lower CHO intake with PRO can assist with 
maximizing glycogen stores. CHO to PRO 
ratios of 4:1 have been suggested for refuel-
ing. However, other ratios such as 2:1 or 3:1 
may provide similar beneﬁ  ts.  •   CrM and caffeine have been documented as 
possible synergists that act with CHO to aid 
in glycogen synthesis rates. In fact, the com-
bination of CHO + caffeine (2 × 4 mg/kg) 
post- exercise provides the most rapid synthe-
sis rates recorded. However, the beneﬁ  ts need 
to be considered with associated side effects. 
Large doses of caffeine can produce nausea 
and disrupt sleep. Loading with CrM is a 
well- documented strategy to boost muscle 
glycogen stores; however, where a gain in 
body weight may disadvantage the athlete, 
the combination of PRO–CHO (without CrM) 
may be a more prudent choice to promote 
muscle glycogen.  
•   The combination of select amino acids such as 
BCAAs with PRO and CHO might be the best 
for promoting anabolism and the adaptations 
desired from resistance exercise. For example, 
the combination of whey PRO, free from 
BCAAs and CHO, stimulates net muscle pro-
tein synthesis to a greater extent than isoener-
getic CHO supplement after resistance 
exercise. While PRO supplements such as 
whey and casein appear to be effective at pro-
moting lean mass during resistance training, 
no studies have examined what proportion of 
each is the most beneﬁ  cial. The addition of an 
intact or whole PRO such as whey or casein to 
a AA-CHO supplement may prolong the ana-
bolic response.  
•   Chronic adaptations that are desired from 
resistance training (i.e., increased strength, 
muscle hypertrophy, and/or lean body mass) 
appear to be enhanced by the combination of 
CrM with PRO or CHO (up to 1–5 g · kg · day −1 ). 
The combination utilized may depend on indi-
vidual requirements of the athlete. For 
instance, the additional CHO may be useful to 
some with high energy requirements. 
However, as PRO appears to provide similar 
beneﬁ  ts, the combination of CrM and PRO 
may be more suited when a high CHO intake 
(such as glucose) is not desired.  
•   Research-based beneﬁ  ts on HM β or β-alanine’s 
potential to augment muscle anabolism and 
performance are now apparent. However, 
under the rigor of scientiﬁ  c investigation, a 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

214
supplement combination or proprietary blend 
combining these with CrM is yet to provide 
any greater beneﬁ  t than a group given CrM 
alone. Based on the amount of research- based 
beneﬁ  ts recently published on HM β and 
β-alanine’s potential to augment muscle anab-
olism and performance, more research in 
combination with CrM on various population 
groups is warranted  
•   The latest trend in sports supplement research 
is the assessment of multi-ingredient perfor-
mance supplements (MIPS)—proprietary 
blends with various PRO sources, amino 
acids, CrM, beta-alanine, vitamins, and root 
extracts purported to enhance the neuromus-
cular adaptations of resistance training. 
While the data on the safety and efﬁ  ciency on 
these products is always welcoming, it is 
important to identify if the intricate and often 
extensive formulation has been examined 
against one of the active (generic) ingredi-
ents listed such as CrM.        
   References 
        1.    Balsom PD, Soderlund K, Ekblom B. Creatine in 
humans with special reference to creatine supple-
mentation. Sports Med. 1994;18(4):268–80.  
        2.    Greenhaff P. The nutritional biochemistry of cre-
atine. J Nutr Biochem. 1997;8(11):610–8.  
       3.    Walsh B, Tonkonogi M, Soderlund K, Hultman E, 
Saks V , Sahlin K. The role of phosphorylcreatine 
and creatine in the regulation of mitochondrial 
 respiration in human skeletal muscle. J Physiol. 
2001;537(Pt 3):971–8.  
     4.    McConell GK, Shinewell J, Stephens TJ, Stathis 
CG, Canny BJ, Snow RJ. Creatine supplementation 
reduces muscle inosine monophosphate during 
endurance exercise in humans. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 2005;37(12):2054–61.  
     5.    Wallimann T, Wyss M, Brdiczka D, Nicolay K, 
Eppenberger HM. Intracellular compartmentation, 
structure and function of creatine kinase isoenzymes 
in tissues with high and ﬂ  uctuating energy demands: 
the ‘phosphocreatine circuit’ for cellular energy 
homeostasis. Biochem J. 1992;281(Pt 1):21–40.  
     6.    Tesch PA, Thorsson A, Fujitsuka N. Creatine phos-
phate in ﬁ  ber types of skeletal muscle before and 
after exhaustive exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1989;66(4):
1756–9.       7.    Greenhaff PL, Bodin K, Soderlund K, Hultman 
E. Effect of oral creatine supplementation on skeletal 
muscle phosphocreatine resynthesis. Am J Physiol. 
1994;266(5 Pt 1):E725–30.  
     8.    Bessman SP, Geiger PJ. Transport of energy in 
muscle: the phosphorylcreatine shuttle. Science. 
1981;211(4481):448–52.  
       9.    Hultman E, Greenhaff PL. Skeletal muscle energy 
metabolism and fatigue during intense exercise in 
man. Sci Prog. 1991;75(298 Pt 3–4):361–70.  
     10.    Bogdanis GC, Nevill ME, Boobis LH, Lakomy HK, 
Nevill AM. Recovery of power output and muscle 
metabolites following 30 s of maximal sprint cycling 
in man. J Physiol. 1995;482(Pt 2):467–80.  
       11.    Harris RC, Soderlund K, Hultman E. Elevation of 
creatine in resting and exercised muscle of normal 
subjects by creatine supplementation. Clin Sci. 
1992;83(3):367–74.  
        12.    Hultman E, Soderlund K, Timmons JA, Cederblad 
G, Greenhaff PL. Muscle creatine loading in men. 
J Appl Physiol. 1996;81(1):232–7.  
    13.    Folin O, Denis W. Protein metabolism from the 
standpoint of blood and tissue analysis: seventh 
paper. An interpretation of creatine and creatinine in 
relation to animal metabolism. J Biol Chem. 
1914;17:493–502.  
        14.    Greenhaff PL, Casey A, Short AH, Harris R, 
Soderlund K, Hultman E. Inﬂ  uence of oral creatine 
supplementation of muscle torque during repeated 
bouts of maximal voluntary exercise in man. Clin 
Sci. 1993;84(5):565–71.  
     15.    Bergstrom J, Hultman E. Muscle glycogen synthesis 
after exercise: an enhancing factor localized to the 
muscle cells in man. Nature. 1966;210(5033):
309–10.  
   16.    Bergstrom J, Hultman E. A study of the glycogen 
metabolism during exercise in man. Scand J Clin 
Lab Invest. 1967;19(3):218–28.  
     17.    Hermansen L, Hultman E, Saltin B. Muscle glyco-
gen during prolonged severe exercise. Acta Physiol 
Scand. 1967;71(2):129–39.  
        18.    Jager R, Purpura M, Shao A, Inoue T, Kreider RB. 
Analysis of the efﬁ  cacy, safety, and regulatory status 
of novel forms of creatine. Amino Acids. 2011;
40(5):1369–83.  
    19.    Deldicque L, Decombaz J, Zbinden Foncea H, 
Vuichoud J, Poortmans JR, Francaux M. Kinetics of 
creatine ingested as a food ingredient. Eur J Appl 
Physiol. 2008;102(2):133–43.  
     20.    Birch R, Noble D, Greenhaff PL. The inﬂ  uence of 
dietary creatine supplementation on performance 
during repeated bouts of maximal isokinetic cycling 
in man. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1994;
69(3):268–76.  
      21.    Casey A, Constantin-Teodosiu D, Howell S, 
Hultman E, Greenhaff PL. Creatine ingestion favor-
ably affects performance and muscle metabolism 
during maximal exercise in humans. Am J Physiol. 
1996;271(1 Pt 1):E31–7.  M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

215
    22.    Earnest CP, Snell PG, Rodriguez R, Almada AL, 
Mitchell TL. The effect of creatine monohydrate 
ingestion on anaerobic power indices, muscular 
strength and body composition. Acta Physiol Scand. 
1995;153(2):207–9.  
   23.    Febbraio MA, Flanagan TR, Snow RJ, Zhao S, 
Carey MF. Effect of creatine supplementation on 
intramuscular TCr, metabolism and performance 
during intermittent, supramaximal exercise in 
humans. Acta Physiol Scand. 1995;155(4):387–95.  
      24.    Kreider RB, Ferreira M, Wilson M, Grindstaff P, 
Plisk S, Reinardy J, et al. Effects of creatine supple-
mentation on body composition, strength, and sprint 
performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1998;30(1):
73–82.  
        25.    Kreider RB, Klesges R, Harmon K, Grindstaff P, 
Ramsey L, Bullen D, et al. Effects of ingesting sup-
plements designed to promote lean tissue accretion 
on body composition during resistance training. Int J 
Sports Nutr. 1996;6(3):234–46.  
       26.    Kreider RB. Effects of creatine supplementation on 
performance and training adaptations. Mol Cell 
Biochem. 2003;244(1–2):89–94.  
    27.    Poortmans JR, Francaux M. Adverse effects of cre-
atine supplementation: fact or ﬁ  ction? Sports Med. 
2000;30(3):155–70.  
        28.    V olek JS, Rawson ES. Scientiﬁ  c basis and practical 
aspects of creatine supplementation for athletes. 
Nutrition. 2004;20(7–8):609–14.  
    29.    Snow RJ, Murphy RM. Factors inﬂ  uencing creatine 
loading into human skeletal muscle. Exerc Sports 
Sci Rev. 2003;31(3):154–8.  
   30.    Persky AM, Brazeau GA, Hochhaus G. Pharma-
cokinetics of the dietary supplement creatine. Clin 
Pharmacokinet. 2003;42(6):557–74.  
   31.    Persky AM, Brazeau GA. Clinical pharmacology of 
the dietary supplement creatine monohydrate. 
Pharmacol Rev. 2001;53(2):161–76.  
    32.    Wyss M, Schulze A. Health implications of creatine: 
can oral creatine supplementation protect against 
neurological and atherosclerotic disease? Neuro-
science. 2002;112(2):243–60.  
    33.    V olek JSKW. Creatine supplementation: its effect on 
human muscular performance and body composition. 
J Strength Cond Res. 1996;10:198–203.  
   34.    Casey A, Greenhaff PL. Does dietary creatine sup-
plementation play a role in skeletal muscle metabo-
lism and performance? Am J Physiol. 2000;
72(2 Suppl):607S–17.  
   35.    Dempsey RL, Mazzone MF, Meurer LN. Does oral 
creatine supplementation improve strength? A meta- 
analysis. J Fam Pract. 2002;51(11):945–51.  
     36.    Rawson ES, V olek JS. Effects of creatine supple-
mentation and resistance training on muscle strength 
and weightlifting performance. J Strength Cond Res. 
2003;17(4):822–31.  
    37.    Kreider RBDW, Greenwood M, Parise G, Payne E, 
Tarnopolsky MA. Effects of creatine serum on mus-
cle creatine and phosphagen levels. J Exerc Physiol 
Online. 2003;6(4):24–33.      38.    Farquhar WB, Zambraski EJ. Effects of creatine use 
on the athlete's kidney. Curr Sports Med Rep. 
2002;1(2):103–6.  
       39.    Lemon PW. Dietary creatine supplementation and 
exercise performance: why inconsistent results? Can 
J Appl Physiol. 2002;27(6):663–81.  
              40.    Steenge GR, Simpson EJ, Greenhaff PL. Protein- 
and carbohydrate-induced augmentation of whole 
body creatine retention in humans. J Appl Physiol. 
2000;89(3):1165–71.  
    41.    Saks V A, Dzhaliashvili IV , Konorev EA, Strumia 
E. Molecular and cellular aspects of the cardiopro-
tective mechanism of phosphocreatine. Biokhimiia. 
1992;57(12):1763–84.  
     42.    Peeters BMLC, Mayhew JL. Effect of oral creatine 
monohydrate and creatine phosphate supplementa-
tion on maximal strength indices, body composition 
and blood pressure. J Strength Cond Res. 
1998;13:3–9.  
     43.    Guimbal C, Kilimann MW. A Na(+)-dependent cre-
atine transporter in rabbit brain, muscle, heart, and 
kidney. cDNA cloning and functional expression. 
J Biol Chem. 1993;268(12):8418–21.  
     44.    Haughland RBCD. Insulin effects on creatine trans-
port in skeletal muscle. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 
1975;148:1–4.  
    45.    Odoom JE, Kemp GJ, Radda GK. The regulation of 
total creatine content in a myoblast cell line. Mol 
Cell Biochem. 1996;158(2):179–88.  
    46.    Bennett SE, Bevington A, Walls J. Regulation of 
intracellular creatine in erythrocytes and myoblasts: 
inﬂ uence of uraemia and inhibition of Na, K-ATPase. 
Cell Biochem Funct. 1994;12(2):99–106.  
    47.    Gerber GB, Gerber G, Koszalka TR, Emmel VM. 
Creatine metabolism in vitamin E deﬁ  ciency in the 
rat. Am J Physiol. 1962;202:453–60.  
    48.    Vandenberghe K, Gillis N, Van Leemputte M, Van 
Hecke P, Vanstapel F, Hespel P. Caffeine counteracts 
the ergogenic action of muscle creatine loading. 
J Appl Physiol. 1996;80(2):452–7.  
    49.    Loike JD, Somes M, Silverstein SC. Creatine uptake, 
metabolism, and efﬂ  ux in human monocytes and 
macrophages. Am J Physiol. 1986;251(1 Pt 1):
C128–35.  
    50.    Moller A, Hamprecht B. Creatine transport in cul-
tured cells of rat and mouse brain. J Neurochem. 
1989;52(2):544–50.  
    51.    Green AL, Simpson EJ, Littlewood JJ, Macdonald 
IA, Greenhaff PL. Carbohydrate ingestion augments 
creatine retention during creatine feeding in humans. 
Acta Physiol Scand. 1996;158(2):195–202.  
    52.    Green AL, Hultman E, Macdonald IA, Sewell DA, 
Greenhaff PL. Carbohydrate ingestion augments 
skeletal muscle creatine accumulation during cre-
atine supplementation in humans. Am J Physiol. 
1996;271(5 Pt 1):E821–6.  
        53.    Robinson TM, Sewell DA, Hultman E, Greenhaff 
PL. Role of submaximal exercise in promoting cre-
atine and glycogen accumulation in human skeletal 
muscle. J Appl Physiol. 1999;87(2):598–604.  9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

216
    54.    Greenwood M, Kreider RB, Earnest C, Rasmussen 
C, Almada A. Differences in creatine retention 
among three nutritional formulations of oral creatine 
supplements. J Exerc Physiol Online. 2003;6:
37–43.  
     55.    Preen D, Dawson B, Goodman C, Beilby J, Ching 
S. Creatine supplementation: a comparison of load-
ing and maintenance protocols on creatine uptake by 
human skeletal muscle. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc 
Metab. 2003;13(1):97–111.  
        56.    Cribb PJ, Williams AD, Stathis CG, Carey MF, 
Hayes A. Effects of whey isolate, creatine, and resis-
tance training on muscle hypertrophy. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2007;39(2):298–307.  
        57.    Burke DG, Chilibeck PD, Davidson KS, Candow 
DG, Farthing J, Smith-Palmer T. The effect of whey 
protein supplementation with and without creatine 
monohydrate combined with resistance training on 
lean tissue mass and muscle strength. Int J Sports 
Nutr Exerc Metab. 2001;11(3):349–64.  
     58.    Tarnopolsky MA, Parise G, Yardley NJ, Ballantyne 
CS, Olatinji S, Phillips SM. Creatine-dextrose and 
protein-dextrose induce similar strength gains during 
training. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2001;33(12):
2044–52.  
     59.    Stout JEJ, Noonan D, Moore G, Cullen D. Effects of 
8 weeks of creatine supplementation on exercise per-
formance and fat-free weight in football players dur-
ing training. Nutr Res. 1999;19(2):217–25.  
           60.    Cribb PJ, Hayes A. Effects of supplement timing and 
resistance exercise on skeletal muscle hypertrophy. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2006;38(11):1918–25.  
     61.    Chilibeck PD, Stride D, Farthing JP, Burke 
DG. Effect of creatine ingestion after exercise on 
muscle thickness in males and females. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2004;36(10):1781–8.  
       62.    Greenwood MGLKR, Rasmussen C, Almada A, 
Earnest C. D-pinitol augments whole body creatine 
retention in man. J Exerc Physiol Online. 2001;4:
41–7.  
     63.    Bates SH, Jones RB, Bailey CJ. Insulin-like effect of 
pinitol. Br J Pharmacol. 2000;130(8):1944–8.  
    64.    Kerksick CM, Wilborn CD, Campbell WI, Harvey 
TM, Marcello BM, Roberts MD, et al. The effects of 
creatine monohydrate supplementation with and 
without D-pinitol on resistance training adaptations. 
J Strength Cond Res. 2009;23(9):2673–82.  
    65.    Estrada DE, Ewart HS, Tsakiridis T, V olchuk A, 
Ramlal T, Tritschler H, et al. Stimulation of glu-
cose uptake by the natural coenzyme alpha-lipoic 
acid/thioctic acid: participation of elements of the 
insulin signaling pathway. Diabetes. 1996;45(12):
1798–804.  
    66.    Kishi Y , Schmelzer JD, Yao JK, Zollman PJ, 
Nickander KK, Tritschler HJ, et al. Alpha-lipoic 
acid: effect on glucose uptake, sorbitol pathway, and 
energy metabolism in experimental diabetic neurop-
athy. Diabetes. 1999;48(10):2045–51.  
       67.    Burke DG, Chilibeck PD, Parise G, Tarnopolsky 
MA, Candow DG. Effect of alpha-lipoic acid com bined with creatine monohydrate on human skeletal mus-
cle creatine and phosphagen concentration. Int J 
Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2003;13(3):294–302.  
    68.    Jäger RKI, Purpura M, Harris R, Ribnicky D, Pischel 
I. The effect of Russian tarragon ( Artemisia dracun-
culus   L.) on the plasma creatine concentration with 
creatine monohydrate administration. J Int Soc 
Sports Nutr. 2008;5 Suppl 1:4.  
     69.    Oliver JM, Jagim AR, Pischel I, Jager R, Purpura M, 
Sanchez A, et al. Effects of short-term ingestion of 
russian tarragon prior to creatine monohydrate sup-
plementation on whole body and muscle creatine 
retention and anaerobic sprint capacity: a prelimi-
nary investigation. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2014;
11(1):6.  
    70.    Jager R, Harris RC, Purpura M, Francaux M. 
Comparison of new forms of creatine in raising 
plasma creatine levels. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2007;4:17.  
    71.    Jager R, Metzger J, Lautmann K, Shushakov V , 
Purpura M, Geiss KR, et al. The effects of creatine 
pyruvate and creatine citrate on performance during 
high intensity exercise. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2008;5:4.  
    72.    Eckerson JM, Stout JR, Moore GA, Stone NJ, Iwan 
KA, Gebauer AN, et al. Effect of creatine phosphate 
supplementation on anaerobic working capacity and 
body weight after two and six days of loading in men 
and women. J Strength Cond Res. 2005;19(4):
756–63.  
      73.    Jagim AR, Oliver JM, Sanchez A, Galvan E, Fluckey 
J, Riechman S, et al. A buffered form of creatine 
does not promote greater changes in muscle creatine 
content, body composition, or training adaptations 
than creatine monohydrate. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2012;9(1):43.  
     74.    Herda TJ, Beck TW, Ryan ED, Smith AE, Walter 
AA, Hartman MJ, et al. Effects of creatine monohy-
drate and polyethylene glycosylated creatine supple-
mentation on muscular strength, endurance, and 
power output. J Strength Cond Res. 2009;23(3):
818–26.  
     75.    Camic CL, Hendrix CR, Housh TJ, Zuniga JM, 
Mielke M, Johnson GO, et al. The effects of polyeth-
ylene glycosylated creatine supplementation on 
muscular strength and power. J Strength Cond Res. 
2010;24(12):3343–51.  
     76.    Spillane M, Schoch R, Cooke M, Harvey T, 
Greenwood M, Kreider R, et al. The effects of cre-
atine ethyl ester supplementation combined with 
heavy resistance training on body composition, mus-
cle performance, and serum and muscle creatine lev-
els. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2009;6:6.  
    77.    Giese MW, Lecher CS. Non-enzymatic cyclization 
of creatine ethyl ester to creatinine. Biochem 
Biophys Res Commun. 2009;388(2):252–5.  
    78.    Katseres NS, Reading DW, Shayya L, Dicesare JC, 
Purser GH. Non-enzymatic hydrolysis of creatine 
ethyl ester. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2009;
386(2):363–7.  M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

217
      79.    Jentjens RL, Moseley L, Waring RH, Harding LK, 
Jeukendrup AE. Oxidation of combined ingestion of 
glucose and fructose during exercise. J Appl Physiol. 
2004;96(4):1277–84.  
     80.    Astorino TA, Roberson DW. Efﬁ  cacy of acute caf-
feine ingestion for short-term high-intensity exercise 
performance: a systematic review. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2010;24(1):257–65.  
     81.    Astorino TA, Cottrell T, Lozano AT, Aburto-Pratt K, 
Duhon J. Increases in cycling performance in 
response to caffeine ingestion are repeatable. Nutr 
Res. 2012;32(2):78–84.  
     82.    Jeukendrup AE. Nutrition for endurance sports: mar-
athon, triathlon, and road cycling. J Sports Sci. 
2011;29 Suppl 1:S91–9.  
    83.    MacDougall JD, Ray S, Sale DG, McCartney N, Lee P, 
Garner S. Muscle substrate utilization and lactate 
production. Can J Appl Physiol. 1999;24(3):209–15.  
     84.    Robergs RA, Pearson DR, Costill DL, Fink WJ, 
Pascoe DD, Benedict MA, et al. Muscle glycogenol-
ysis during differing intensities of weight- resistance 
exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1991;70(4):1700–6.  
   85.    Tesch PAP-SL, Yström L, Castro M, Dudley G. 
Skeletal muscle glycogen loss evoked by resistance 
exercise. J Strength Cond Res. 1998;12(2):67–73.  
     86.    Haff GG, Koch AJ, Potteiger JA, Kuphal KE, Magee 
LM, Green SB, et al. Carbohydrate supplementation 
attenuates muscle glycogen loss during acute bouts 
of resistance exercise. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2000;10(3):326–39.  
      87.    Sherman WM, Brodowicz G, Wright DA, Allen 
WK, Simonsen J, Dernbach A. Effects of 4 h preex-
ercise carbohydrate feedings on cycling perfor-
mance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1989;21(5):598–604.  
        88.    Ivy JL, Goforth Jr HW, Damon BM, McCauley TR, 
Parsons EC, Price TB. Early postexercise muscle 
glycogen recovery is enhanced with a carbohydrate- 
protein supplement. J Appl Physiol. 2002;93(4):
1337–44.  
    89.    Fairchild TJ, Fletcher S, Steele P, Goodman C, 
Dawson B, Fournier PA. Rapid carbohydrate loading 
after a short bout of near maximal-intensity exercise. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2002;34(6):980–6.  
    90.    Bussau V A, Fairchild TJ, Rao A, Steele P, Fournier 
PA. Carbohydrate loading in human muscle: an 
improved 1 day protocol. Eur J Appl Physiol. 
2002;87(3):290–5.  
    91.    Hawley JA, Schabort EJ, Noakes TD, Dennis SC. 
Carbohydrate-loading and exercise performance. An 
update. Sports Med. 1997;24(2):73–81.  
    92.    Burke LM, Hawley JA, Schabort EJ, St Clair Gibson 
A, Mujika I, Noakes TD. Carbohydrate loading 
failed to improve 100-km cycling performance in a 
placebo-controlled trial. J Appl Physiol. 2000;
88(4):1284–90.  
        93.    Burke LM, Hawley JA, Wong SH, Jeukendrup AE. 
Carbohydrates for training and competition. J Sports 
Sci. 2011;29 Suppl 1:S17–27.  
     94.    Betts JA, Williams C. Short-term recovery from pro-
longed exercise: exploring the potential for protein ingestion to accentuate the beneﬁ  ts of carbohydrate 
supplements. Sports Med. 2010;40(11):941–59.  
        95.    Burke LM. Fueling strategies to optimize perfor-
mance: training high or training low? Scand J Med 
Sci Sports. 2010;20 Suppl 2:48–58.  
    96.    Cox GR, Clark SA, Cox AJ, Halson SL, Hargreaves 
M, Hawley JA, et al. Daily training with high carbo-
hydrate availability increases exogenous carbohy-
drate oxidation during endurance cycling. J Appl 
Physiol. 2010;109(1):126–34.  
    97.    Jeukendrup AE. Carbohydrate intake during exercise 
and performance. Nutrition. 2004;20(7–8):669–77.  
       98.   Smith-Ryan AEAJ. Sport nutrition & performance 
enhancing supplements. Linus Books; 2013.  
     99.    Rodriguez NR, DiMarco NM, Langley S, American 
Dietetic Association, Dietitians of Canada, American 
College of Sports Medicine, et al. Position of the 
American Dietetic Association, Dietitians of 
Canada, and the American College of Sports 
Medicine: nutrition and athletic performance. J Am 
Diet Assoc. 2009;109(3):509–27.  
    100.    Slater G, Phillips SM. Nutrition guidelines for 
strength sports: sprinting, weightlifting, throwing 
events, and bodybuilding. J Sports Sci. 2011;29 
Suppl 1:S67–77.  
    101.    Helms ER, Aragon AA, Fitschen PJ. Evidence- 
based recommendations for natural bodybuilding 
contest preparation: nutrition and supplementation. 
J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2014;11:20.  
    102.    Zehnder M, Muelli M, Buchli R, Kuehne G, 
Boutellier U. Further glycogen decrease during 
early recovery after eccentric exercise despite a high 
carbohydrate intake. Eur J Nutr. 2004;43(3):
148–59.  
    103.    Coyle EF. Substrate utilization during exercise in 
active people. Am J Clin Nutr. 1995;61(4 Suppl):
968S–79.  
   104.    Foster C, Costill DL, Fink WJ. Effects of preexercise 
feedings on endurance performance. Med Sci Sports. 
1979;11(1):1–5.  
    105.    Chryssanthopoulos C, Williams C. Pre-exercise car-
bohydrate meal and endurance running capacity 
when carbohydrates are ingested during exercise. Int 
J Sports Med. 1997;18(7):543–8.  
    106.    Moore LJ, Midgley AW, Thurlow S, Thomas G, Mc 
Naughton LR. Effect of the glycaemic index of a 
pre-exercise meal on metabolism and cycling time 
trial performance. J Sci Med Sports. 2010;13(1):
182–8.  
    107.    Donaldson CM, Perry TL, Rose MC. Glycemic 
index and endurance performance. Int J Sports Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2010;20(2):154–65.  
     108.    Karelis AD, Smith JW, Passe DH, Peronnet 
F. Carbohydrate administration and exercise perfor-
mance: what are the potential mechanisms involved? 
Sports Med. 2010;40(9):747–63.  
    109.    Pfeiffer B, Stellingwerff T, Hodgson AB, Randell R, 
Pottgen K, Res P, et al. Nutritional intake and gastro-
intestinal problems during competitive endurance 
events. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2012;44(2):344–51.  9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

218
    110.    Burke LM, Claassen A, Hawley JA, Noakes TD. 
Carbohydrate intake during prolonged cycling mini-
mizes effect of glycemic index of preexercise meal. 
J Appl Physiol. 1998;85(6):2220–6.  
   111.    Chen YJ, Wong SH, Chan CO, Wong CK, Lam CW, 
Siu PM. Effects of glycemic index meal and CHO- 
electrolyte drink on cytokine response and run per-
formance in endurance athletes. J Sci Med Sports. 
2009;12(6):697–703.  
   112.    Wong SH, Chan OW, Chen YJ, Hu HL, Lam CW, 
Chung PK. Effect of preexercise glycemic-index 
meal on running when CHO-electrolyte solution is 
consumed during exercise. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc 
Metab. 2009;19(3):222–42.  
    113.    Phillips SM, Sproule J, Turner AP. Carbohydrate 
ingestion during team games exercise: current 
knowledge and areas for future investigation. Sports 
Med. 2011;41(7):559–85.  
     114.    Jentjens RL, Underwood K, Achten J, Currell K, 
Mann CH, Jeukendrup AE. Exogenous carbohydrate 
oxidation rates are elevated after combined ingestion 
of glucose and fructose during exercise in the heat. 
J Appl Physiol. 2006;100(3):807–16.  
    115.    Pfeiffer B, Cotterill A, Grathwohl D, Stellingwerff 
T, Jeukendrup AE. The effect of carbohydrate gels 
on gastrointestinal tolerance during a 16-km run. Int 
J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2009;19(5):485–503.  
     116.    Pfeiffer B, Stellingwerff T, Zaltas E, Jeukendrup AE. 
Oxidation of solid versus liquid CHO sources during 
exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2010;42(11):
2030–7.  
    117.    Rowlands DS, Thorburn MS, Thorp RM, Broadbent 
S, Shi X. Effect of graded fructose coingestion with 
maltodextrin on exogenous 14C-fructose and 
13C-glucose oxidation efﬁ  ciency and high-intensity 
cycling performance. J Appl Physiol. 2008;104(6):
1709–19.  
    118.    Pfeiffer B, Stellingwerff T, Zaltas E, Hodgson AB, 
Jeukendrup AE. Carbohydrate oxidation from a 
drink during running compared with cycling exer-
cise. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2011;43(2):327–34.  
    119.    Currell K, Jeukendrup AE. Superior endurance per-
formance with ingestion of multiple transportable 
carbohydrates. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2008;40(2):
275–81.  
    120.    Triplett D, Doyle JA, Rupp JC, Benardot D. An iso-
caloric glucose-fructose beverage’s effect on simu-
lated 100-km cycling performance compared with a 
glucose-only beverage. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc 
Metab. 2010;20(2):122–31.  
    121.    Piehl Aulin K, Soderlund K, Hultman E. Muscle gly-
cogen resynthesis rate in humans after supplementa-
tion of drinks containing carbohydrates with low and 
high molecular masses. Eur J Appl Physiol. 
2000;81(4):346–51.  
        122.    Pedersen DJ, Lessard SJ, Coffey VG, Churchley EG, 
Wootton AM, Ng T, et al. High rates of muscle gly-
cogen resynthesis after exhaustive exercise when 
carbohydrate is coingested with caffeine. J Appl 
Physiol. 2008;105(1):7–13.      123.    Ivy JL, Katz AL, Cutler CL, Sherman WM, Coyle 
EF. Muscle glycogen synthesis after exercise: effect 
of time of carbohydrate ingestion. J Appl Physiol. 
1988;64(4):1480–5.  
     124.    Samadi A, Gaeini AA, Kordi MR, Rahimi M, 
Rahnama N, Bambaeichi E. Effect of various ratios 
of carbohydrate-protein supplementation on resis-
tance exercise-induced muscle damage. J Sports 
Med Phys Fitness. 2012;52(2):151–7.  
    125.    Zawadzki KM, Yaspelkis 3rd BB, Ivy JL. 
Carbohydrate-protein complex increases the rate of 
muscle glycogen storage after exercise. J Appl 
Physiol. 1992;72(5):1854–9.  
    126.    Williams M, Raven PB, Fogt DL, Ivy JL. Effects of 
recovery beverages on glycogen restoration and 
endurance exercise performance. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2003;17(1):12–9.  
    127.    Berardi JM, Price TB, Noreen EE, Lemon PW. 
Postexercise muscle glycogen recovery enhanced 
with a carbohydrate-protein supplement. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2006;38(6):1106–13.  
    128.    van Loon LJ, Saris WH, Kruijshoop M, Wagenmakers 
AJ. Maximizing postexercise muscle glycogen syn-
thesis: carbohydrate supplementation and the appli-
cation of amino acid or protein hydrolysate mixtures. 
Am J Clin Nutr. 2000;72(1):106–11.  
     129.    van Loon LJ, Saris WH, Verhagen H, Wagenmakers 
AJ. Plasma insulin responses after ingestion of dif-
ferent amino acid or protein mixtures with carbohy-
drate. Am J Clin Nutr. 2000;72(1):96–105.  
     130.    Taylor C, Higham D, Close GL, Morton JP. The 
effect of adding caffeine to postexercise carbohy-
drate feeding on subsequent high-intensity interval- 
running capacity compared with carbohydrate alone. 
Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2011;21(5):410–6.  
      131.    Nelson AG, Arnall DA, Kokkonen J, Day R, Evans 
J. Muscle glycogen supercompensation is enhanced 
by prior creatine supplementation. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 2001;33(7):1096–100.  
     132.    Op ‘t Eijnde B, Urso B, Richter EA, Greenhaff PL, 
Hespel P. Effect of oral creatine supplementation on 
human muscle GLUT4 protein content after immo-
bilization. Diabetes. 2001;50(1):18–23.  
      133.    Derave W, Eijnde BO, Verbessem P, Ramaekers M, 
Van Leemputte M, Richter EA, et al. Combined cre-
atine and protein supplementation in conjunction 
with resistance training promotes muscle GLUT-4 
content and glucose tolerance in humans. J Appl 
Physiol. 2003;94(5):1910–6.  
      134.    van Loon LJ, Murphy R, Oosterlaar AM, Cameron- 
Smith D, Hargreaves M, Wagenmakers AJ, et al. 
Creatine supplementation increases glycogen stor-
age but not GLUT-4 expression in human skeletal 
muscle. Clin Sci. 2004;106(1):99–106.  
    135.    Francaux M, Poortmans JR. Effects of training and cre-
atine supplement on muscle strength and body mass. 
Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1999;80(2):165–8.  
    136.    Low SY , Rennie MJ, Taylor PM. Modulation of gly-
cogen synthesis in rat skeletal muscle by changes in 
cell volume. J Physiol. 1996;495(Pt 2):299–303.  M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

219
    137.    Rasmussen BB, Phillips SM. Contractile and nutri-
tional regulation of human muscle growth. Exerc 
Sports Sci Rev. 2003;31(3):127–31.  
    138.    Phillips SM, Tipton KD, Aarsland A, Wolf SE, 
Wolfe RR. Mixed muscle protein synthesis and 
breakdown after resistance exercise in humans. Am 
J Physiol. 1997;273(1 Pt 1):E99–107.  
    139.    Yarasheski KE, Pak-Loduca J, Hasten DL, Obert 
KA, Brown MB, Sinacore DR. Resistance exercise 
training increases mixed muscle protein synthesis 
rate in frail women and men ≥76 yr old. Am J 
Physiol. 1999;277(1 Pt 1):E118–25.  
     140.    Rennie MJ, Wackerhage H, Spangenburg EE, Booth 
FW. Control of the size of the human muscle mass. 
Annu Rev Physiol. 2004;66:799–828.  
    141.    Moore DR, Tang JE, Burd NA, Rerecich T, 
Tarnopolsky MA, Phillips SM. Differential stimula-
tion of myoﬁ  brillar and sarcoplasmic protein synthe-
sis with protein ingestion at rest and after resistance 
exercise. J Physiol. 2009;587(Pt 4):897–904.  
      142.    Rasmussen BB, Tipton KD, Miller SL, Wolf SE, 
Wolfe RR. An oral essential amino acid- carbohydrate 
supplement enhances muscle protein anabolism after 
resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol. 2000;88(2):
386–92.  
     143.    Borsheim E, Cree MG, Tipton KD, Elliott TA, 
Aarsland A, Wolfe RR. Effect of carbohydrate intake 
on net muscle protein synthesis during recovery 
from resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol. 2004;
96(2):674–8.  
    144.    Staples AW, Burd NA, West DW, Currie KD, 
Atherton PJ, Moore DR, et al. Carbohydrate does 
not augment exercise-induced protein accretion 
versus protein alone. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
2011;43(7):1154–61.  
     145.    Roy BD, Tarnopolsky MA, MacDougall JD, Fowles 
J, Yarasheski KE. Effect of glucose supplement tim-
ing on protein metabolism after resistance training. 
J Appl Physiol. 1997;82(6):1882–8.  
    146.    Baty JJ, Hwang H, Ding Z, Bernard JR, Wang B, 
Kwon B, et al. The effect of a carbohydrate and pro-
tein supplement on resistance exercise performance, 
hormonal response, and muscle damage. J Strength 
Cond Res. 2007;21(2):321–9.  
    147.    Tarpenning KM, Wiswell RA, Hawkins SA, Marcell 
TJ. Inﬂ  uence of weight training exercise and modiﬁ  -
cation of hormonal response on skeletal muscle 
growth. J Sci Med Sports. 2001;4(4):431–46.  
    148.    Tipton KD, Rasmussen BB, Miller SL, Wolf SE, 
Owens-Stovall SK, Petrini BE, et al. Timing of 
amino acid-carbohydrate ingestion alters anabolic 
response of muscle to resistance exercise. Am J 
Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2001;281(2):E197–206.  
   149.    Miller SL, Tipton KD, Chinkes DL, Wolf SE, Wolfe 
RR. Independent and combined effects of amino 
acids and glucose after resistance exercise. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2003;35(3):449–55.  
     150.    Borsheim E, Aarsland A, Wolfe RR. Effect of an 
amino acid, protein, and carbohydrate mixture on net 
muscle protein balance after resistance exercise. Int 
J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2004;14(3):255–71.        151.    Elliot TA, Cree MG, Sanford AP, Wolfe RR, Tipton 
KD. Milk ingestion stimulates net muscle protein 
synthesis following resistance exercise. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2006;38(4):667–74.  
      152.    Tipton KD. Role of protein and hydrolysates before 
exercise. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2007;
17(Suppl):S77–86.  
     153.    Moore DR, Atherton PJ, Rennie MJ, Tarnopolsky 
MA, Phillips SM. Resistance exercise enhances 
mTOR and MAPK signalling in human muscle over 
that seen at rest after bolus protein ingestion. Acta 
Physiol. 2011;201(3):365–72.  
    154.    Dickinson JM, Fry CS, Drummond MJ, Gundermann 
DM, Walker DK, Glynn EL, et al. Mammalian target 
of rapamycin complex 1 activation is required for the 
stimulation of human skeletal muscle protein syn-
thesis by essential amino acids. J Nutr. 2011;141(5):
856–62.  
    155.    Karlsson HK, Nilsson PA, Nilsson J, Chibalin A V , 
Zierath JR, Blomstrand E. Branched-chain amino 
acids increase p70S6k phosphorylation in human 
skeletal muscle after resistance exercise. Am J 
Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2004;287(1):E1–7.  
        156.    Ferguson-Stegall L, McCleave EL, Ding Z, Doerner 
3rd PG, Wang B, Liao YH, et al. Postexercise 
carbohydrate- protein supplementation improves 
subsequent exercise performance and intracellular 
signaling for protein synthesis. J Strength Cond Res. 
2011;25(5):1210–24.  
    157.    Coffey VG, Moore DR, Burd NA, Rerecich T, 
Stellingwerff T, Garnham AP, et al. Nutrient provi-
sion increases signalling and protein synthesis in 
human skeletal muscle after repeated sprints. Eur J 
Appl Physiol. 2011;111(7):1473–83.  
   158.    Breen L, Philp A, Witard OC, Jackman SR, Selby A, 
Smith K, et al. The inﬂ  uence of carbohydrate-pro-
tein co-ingestion following endurance exercise on 
myoﬁ  brillar and mitochondrial protein synthesis. 
J Physiol. 2011;589(Pt 16):4011–25.  
     159.    Ivy JL, Ding Z, Hwang H, Cialdella-Kam LC, 
Morrison PJ. Post exercise carbohydrate-protein 
supplementation: phosphorylation of muscle pro-
teins involved in glycogen synthesis and protein 
translation. Amino Acids. 2008;35(1):89–97.  
        160.    Ferguson-Stegall L, McCleave E, Ding Z, Doerner 
Iii PG, Liu Y , Wang B, et al. Aerobic exercise train-
ing adaptations are increased by postexercise 
carbohydrate- protein supplementation. J Nutr Metab. 
2011;2011:623182.  
    161.    Creer A, Gallagher P, Slivka D, Jemiolo B, Fink W, 
Trappe S. Inﬂ  uence of muscle glycogen availability 
on ERK1/2 and Akt signaling after resistance exer-
cise in human skeletal muscle. J Appl Physiol. 
2005;99(3):950–6.  
    162.    Kraemer WJ, V olek JS, Bush JA, Putukian M, 
Sebastianelli WJ. Hormonal responses to consecu-
tive days of heavy-resistance exercise with or with-
out nutritional supplementation. J Appl Physiol. 
1998;85(4):1544–55.  
   163.    Williams AG, Ismail AN, Sharma A, Jones DA. 
Effects of resistance exercise volume and nutritional 9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

220
supplementation on anabolic and catabolic hor-
mones. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2002;86(4):315–21.  
   164.      Willoughby DF, Stout J, Wilborn C, Taylor L, 
Kerksick C, editor. Effects of heavy resistance train-
ing and proprietary whey Casein Leucine protein 
supplementation on serum and skeletal muscle 
IGF-1 levels and IGF-1 and MGF mRNA expres-
sion. Int Soc Sports Nutr; 2005.  
    165.    Kraemer WJ, Spiering BA, V olek JS, Ratamess NA, 
Sharman MJ, Rubin MR, et al. Androgenic responses 
to resistance exercise: effects of feeding and L-carnitine. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2006;38(7):1288–96.  
    166.    West DW, Phillips SM. Associations of exercise- 
induced hormone proﬁ  les and gains in strength and 
hypertrophy in a large cohort after weight training. 
Eur J Appl Physiol. 2012;112(7):2693–702.  
    167.    Norton LE, Wilson GJ, Layman DK, Moulton CJ, 
Garlick PJ. Leucine content of dietary proteins is a 
determinant of postprandial skeletal muscle protein 
synthesis in adult rats. Nutr Metab. 2012;9(1):67.  
    168.    Katsanos CS, Kobayashi H, Shefﬁ  eld-Moore M, 
Aarsland A, Wolfe RR. A high proportion of leucine 
is required for optimal stimulation of the rate of 
muscle protein synthesis by essential amino acids in 
the elderly. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 
2006;291(2):E381–7.  
    169.    Pasiakos SM, McClung HL, McClung JP, Margolis 
LM, Andersen NE, Cloutier GJ, et al. Leucine- 
enriched essential amino acid supplementation dur-
ing moderate steady state exercise enhances 
postexercise muscle protein synthesis. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2011;94(3):809–18.  
     170.    Glynn EL, Fry CS, Drummond MJ, Timmerman KL, 
Dhanani S, V olpi E, et al. Excess leucine intake 
enhances muscle anabolic signaling but not net pro-
tein anabolism in young men and women. J Nutr. 
2010;140(11):1970–6.  
    171.    Tipton KD, Elliott TA, Ferrando AA, Aarsland AA, 
Wolfe RR. Stimulation of muscle anabolism by 
resistance exercise and ingestion of leucine plus pro-
tein. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2009;34(2):151–61.  
     172.    Churchward-Venne TA, Burd NA, Mitchell CJ, West 
DW, Philp A, Marcotte GR, et al. Supplementation 
of a suboptimal protein dose with leucine or essen-
tial amino acids: effects on myoﬁ  brillar protein syn-
thesis at rest and following resistance exercise in 
men. J Physiol. 2012;590(Pt 11):2751–65.  
    173.    Yang Y , Breen L, Burd NA, Hector AJ, Churchward- 
Venne TA, Josse AR, et al. Resistance exercise 
enhances myoﬁ  brillar protein synthesis with graded 
intakes of whey protein in older men. Br J Nutr. 
2012;108(10):1780–8.  
    174.    Churchward-Venne TA, Breen L, Di Donato DM, 
Hector AJ, Mitchell CJ, Moore DR, et al. Leucine 
supplementation of a low-protein mixed macronutri-
ent beverage enhances myoﬁ  brillar protein synthesis 
in young men: a double-blind, randomized trial. Am 
J Clin Nutr. 2014;99(2):276–86.  
      175.    Keisler BD, Armsey 2nd TD. Caffeine as an ergo-
genic aid. Curr Sports Med Rep. 2006;5(4):215–9.     176.    Greer F, McLean C, Graham TE. Caffeine, perfor-
mance, and metabolism during repeated Wingate 
exercise tests. J Appl Physiol. 1998;85(4):1502–8.  
   177.    Greer F, Friars D, Graham TE. Comparison of caf-
feine and theophylline ingestion: exercise metabolism 
and endurance. J Appl Physiol. 2000;89(5):1837–44.  
    178.    Desbrow B, Biddulph C, Devlin B, Grant GD, 
Anoopkumar-Dukie S, Leveritt MD. The effects of 
different doses of caffeine on endurance cycling time 
trial performance. J Sports Sci. 2012;30(2):115–20.  
    179.    Homsi J, Walsh D, Nelson KA. Psychostimulants in 
supportive care. Support Care Cancer. 2000;8(5):
385–97.  
    180.      Hoffman BB. Adrenoreceptor-activating and other 
sympathomimetic drugs. In: Katzung BG, editor. 
Basic and clinical pharmacology. 8th ed. New York: 
The McGraw Hill Companies, Inc; 2001. p. 120–37.  
       181.    Bell DG, Jacobs I, Ellerington K. Effect of caffeine 
and ephedrine ingestion on anaerobic exercise 
performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2001;33(8):
1399–403.  
    182.    Jacobs I, Pasternak H, Bell DG. Effects of ephed-
rine, caffeine, and their combination on muscular 
endurance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2003;35(6):
987–94.  
     183.    Gillies H, Derman WE, Noakes TD, Smith P, Evans 
A, Gabriels G. Pseudoephedrine is without ergo-
genic effects during prolonged exercise. J Appl 
Physiol. 1996;81(6):2611–7.  
    184.    Hodges AN, Lynn BM, Bula JE, Donaldson MG, 
Dagenais MO, McKenzie DC. Effects of pseudo-
ephedrine on maximal cycling power and submaxi-
mal cycling efﬁ  ciency. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
2003;35(8):1316–9.  
    185.    Dulloo AG. Ephedrine, xanthines and prostaglandin- 
inhibitors: actions and interactions in the stimulation 
of thermogenesis. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord. 
1993;17 Suppl 1:S35–40.  
       186.    Bell DG, Jacobs I. Combined caffeine and ephedrine 
ingestion improves run times of Canadian Forces 
Warrior Test. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1999;
70(4):325–9.  
    187.    Bell DG, Jacobs I, Zamecnik J. Effects of caffeine, 
ephedrine and their combination on time to exhaus-
tion during high-intensity exercise. Eur J Appl 
Physiol Occup Physiol. 1998;77(5):427–33.  
        188.    Bell DG, McLellan TM, Sabiston CM. Effect of 
ingesting caffeine and ephedrine on 10-km run per-
formance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2002;34(2):
344–9.  
     189.    Graham TE. Caffeine, coffee and ephedrine: impact 
on exercise performance and metabolism. Can J 
Appl Physiol. 2001;26:Suppl:S103–19.  
    190.    Bell DG, Jacobs I, McLellan TM, Zamecnik J. 
Reducing the dose of combined caffeine and ephed-
rine preserves the ergogenic effect. Aviat Space 
Environ Med. 2000;71(4):415–9.  
    191.    Magkos F, Kavouras SA. Caffeine and ephedrine: 
physiological, metabolic and performance- enhancing 
effects. Sports Med. 2004;34(13):871–89.  M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

221
    192.    Williams AD, Cribb PJ, Cooke MB, Hayes A. The 
effect of ephedra and caffeine on maximal strength 
and power in resistance-trained athletes. J Strength 
Cond Res. 2008;22(2):464–70.  
    193.      Bicopoulos D, editor. AusDI: drug information for 
the healthcare professional. 2nd ed. Castle Hill: 
Pharmaceutical Care Information Services; 2002.  
       194.    Carr AJ, Gore CJ, Dawson B. Induced alkalosis and 
caffeine supplementation: effects on 2,000-m rowing 
performance. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2011;21(5):357–64.  
     195.    Kilding AE, Overton C, Gleave J. Effects of caf-
feine, sodium bicarbonate, and their combined 
ingestion on high-intensity cycling performance. Int 
J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2012;22(3):175–83.  
     196.    Lee CL, Cheng CF, Lee CJ, Kuo YH, Chang 
WD. Co-ingestion of caffeine and carbohydrate after 
meal does not improve performance at high-intensity 
intermittent sprints with short recovery times. Eur J 
Appl Physiol. 2014;114(7):1533–43.  
    197.    Conger SA, Warren GL, Hardy MA, Millard- 
Stafford ML. Does caffeine added to carbohydrate 
provide additional ergogenic beneﬁ  t for endurance? 
Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2011;21(1):71–84.  
    198.    Cooper R, Naclerio F, Allgrove J, Larumbe-Zabala 
E. Effects of a carbohydrate and caffeine gel on 
intermittent sprint performance in recreationally 
trained males. Eur J Sports Sci. 2014;14(4):353–61.  
    199.    Douroudos II, Fatouros IG, Gourgoulis V , Jamurtas AZ, 
Tsitsios T, Hatzinikolaou A, et al. Dose-related effects 
of prolonged NaHCO3 ingestion during high-intensity 
exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2006;38(10):1746–53.  
   200.    Mc Naughton L, Thompson D. Acute versus chronic 
sodium bicarbonate ingestion and anaerobic work 
and power output. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 
2001;41(4):456–62.  
    201.    McNaughton L, Backx K, Palmer G, Strange 
N. Effects of chronic bicarbonate ingestion on the 
performance of high-intensity work. Eur J Appl 
Physiol Occup Physiol. 1999;80(4):333–6.  
     202.    Mero AA, Keskinen KL, Malvela MT, Sallinen JM. 
Combined creatine and sodium bicarbonate supple-
mentation enhances interval swimming. J Strength 
Cond Res. 2004;18(2):306–10.  
    203.    Barber JJ, McDermott AY , McGaughey KJ, Olmstead 
JD, Hagobian TA. Effects of combined creatine and 
sodium bicarbonate supplementation on repeated 
sprint performance in trained men. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2013;27(1):252–8.  
       204.    Cribb PJ, Williams AD, Hayes A. A creatine-protein- 
carbohydrate supplement enhances responses to resis-
tance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2007;
39(11):1960–8.  
    205.    Chromiak JA, Smedley B, Carpenter W, Brown R, 
Koh YS, Lamberth JG, et al. Effect of a 10-week 
strength training program and recovery drink on 
body composition, muscular strength and endurance, 
and anaerobic power and capacity. Nutrition. 2004;
20(5):420–7.      206.    Villanueva MG, He J, Schroeder ET. Periodized 
resistance training with and without supplementation 
improve body composition and performance in older 
men. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2014;114(5):891–905.  
    207.    Stone MH, Sanborn K, Smith LL, O'Bryant HS, 
Hoke T, Utter AC, et al. Effects of in-season (5 
weeks) creatine and pyruvate supplementation on 
anaerobic performance and body composition in 
American football players. Int J Sports Nutr. 
1999;9(2):146–65.  
    208.    Selsby JT, DiSilvestro RA, Devor ST. Mg2 + −cre-
atine chelate and a low-dose creatine supplementation 
regimen improve exercise performance. J Strength 
Cond Res. 2004;18(2):311–5.  
    209.    Jowko E, Ostaszewski P, Jank M, Sacharuk J, 
Zieniewicz A, Wilczak J, et al. Creatine and beta-
hydroxy- beta-methylbutyrate (HMB) additively 
increase lean body mass and muscle strength during 
a weight-training program. Nutrition. 
2001;17(7–8):558–66.  
    210.    Crowe MJ, O'Connor DM, Lukins JE. The effects of 
beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate (HMB) and 
HMB/creatine supplementation on indices of health 
in highly trained athletes. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc 
Metab. 2003;13(2):184–97.  
      211.   Hill CA, Harris R, Kim HJ, Boobis L, Sale C, Wise JA, 
editors. The effect of beta-alanine and creatine 
monohydrate supplementation on muscle composi-
tion and exercise performance. Am Coll Sports Med. 
2005;37(5):S348 (Medicine and Science in Sports 
and Exercise).  
      212.    Stout JR, Cramer JT, Mielke M, O'Kroy J, Torok DJ, 
Zoeller RF. Effects of twenty-eight days of beta- 
alanine and creatine monohydrate supplementation 
on the physical working capacity at neuromuscular 
fatigue threshold. J Strength Cond Res. 2006;
20(4):928–31.  
    213.    Wilson JM, Fitschen PJ, Campbell B, Wilson GJ, 
Zanchi N, Taylor L, et al. International society of 
sports nutrition position stand: beta-hydroxy-beta- 
methylbutyrate (HMB). J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2013;10(1):6.  
      214.    Baier S, Johannsen D, Abumrad N, Rathmacher JA, 
Nissen S, Flakoll P. Year-long changes in protein 
metabolism in elderly men and women supplemented 
with a nutrition cocktail of beta-hydroxy- beta-
methylbutyrate (HMB), L-arginine, and L-lysine. 
JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr. 2009;33(1):71–82.  
     215.   Lowery RP, Joy JM, Rathmacher JA, Baier SM, 
Fuller J, Jr, Shelley MC, 2nd, et al. Interaction of 
beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate free acid 
(HMB-FA) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) on 
muscle mass, strength, and power in resistance 
trained individuals. J Strength Cond Res. 2014.  
       216.    Hoffman J, Ratamess N, Kang J, Mangine G, 
Faigenbaum A, Stout J. Effect of creatine and beta- 
alanine supplementation on performance and endo-
crine responses in strength/power athletes. Int J 
Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2006;16(4):430–46.  9 Effective Nutritional Supplement Combinations

222
     217.    Hoffman JR, Ratamess NA, Tranchina CP, Rashti 
SL, Kang J, Faigenbaum AD. Effect of protein- 
supplement timing on strength, power, and body- 
composition changes in resistance-trained men. Int J 
Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2009;19(2):172–85.  
    218.    Burk A, Timpmann S, Medijainen L, Vahi M, Oopik 
V . Time-divided ingestion pattern of casein-based 
protein supplement stimulates an increase in fat-free 
body mass during resistance training in young 
untrained men. Nutr Res. 2009;29(6):405–13.  
    219.    Phillips SM, Hartman JW, Wilkinson SB. Dietary 
protein to support anabolism with resistance exer-
cise in young men. J Am Coll Nutr. 
2005;24(2):134S–9.  
    220.    Tang JE, Manolakos JJ, Kujbida GW, Lysecki PJ, 
Moore DR, Phillips SM. Minimal whey protein with 
carbohydrate stimulates muscle protein synthesis 
following resistance exercise in trained young men. 
Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2007;32(6):1132–8.  
    221.    Res PT, Groen B, Pennings B, Beelen M, Wallis GA, 
Gijsen AP, et al. Protein ingestion before sleep 
improves postexercise overnight recovery. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2012;44(8):1560–9.  
    222.    Andersen LL, Tufekovic G, Zebis MK, Crameri 
RM, Verlaan G, Kjaer M, et al. The effect of resis-
tance training combined with timed ingestion of pro-
tein on muscle ﬁ  ber size and muscle strength. Metab 
Clin Exp. 2005;54(2):151–6.  
    223.    Kerksick CM, Rasmussen CJ, Lancaster SL, Magu 
B, Smith P, Melton C, et al. The effects of protein 
and amino acid supplementation on performance 
and training adaptations during ten weeks of resis-
tance training. J Strength Cond Res. 
2006;20(3):643–53.  
    224.    Ormsbee MJ, Mandler WK, Thomas DD, Ward EG, 
Kinsey AW, Simonavice E, et al. The effects of six 
weeks of supplementation with multi-ingredient per-
formance supplements and resistance training on 
anabolic hormones, body composition, strength, and 
power in resistance-trained men. J Int Soc Sports 
Nutr. 2012;9(1):49.  
   225.    Ormsbee MJ, Thomas DD, Mandler WK, Ward EG, 
Kinsey AW, Panton LB, et al. The effects of pre- and 
post-exercise consumption of multi-ingredient per-
formance supplements on cardiovascular health and 
body fat in trained men after six weeks of resistance 
training: a stratiﬁ  ed, randomized, double-blind 
study. Nutr Metab. 2013;10(1):39.  
    226.    Lowery RP, Joy JM, Dudeck JE, Oliveira de Souza 
E, McCleary SA, Wells S, et al. Effects of 8 weeks of 
Xpand(R) 2X pre workout supplementation on skel-
etal muscle hypertrophy, lean body mass, and 
strength in resistance trained males. J Int Soc Sports 
Nutr. 2013;10(1):44.  
    227.    Stout JR, Cramer JT, Zoeller RF, Torok D, Costa P, 
Hoffman JR, et al. Effects of beta-alanine supple-
mentation on the onset of neuromuscular fatigue and 
ventilatory threshold in women. Amino Acids. 
2007;32(3):381–6.       228.    Zoeller RF, Stout JR, O'Kroy JA, Torok DJ, Mielke 
M. Effects of 28 days of beta-alanine and creatine 
monohydrate supplementation on aerobic power, 
ventilatory and lactate thresholds, and time to 
exhaustion. Amino Acids. 2007;33(3):505–10.  
     229.    Mero AA, Hirvonen P, Saarela J, Hulmi JJ, Hoffman 
JR, Stout JR. Effect of sodium bicarbonate and beta- 
alanine supplementation on maximal sprint swim-
ming. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2013;10(1):52.  
   230.    Bellinger PM, Howe ST, Shing CM, Fell JW. Effect 
of combined beta-alanine and sodium bicarbonate 
supplementation on cycling performance. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2012;44(8):1545–51.  
    231.    Sale C, Saunders B, Hudson S, Wise JA, Harris RC, 
Sunderland CD. Effect of beta-alanine plus sodium 
bicarbonate on high-intensity cycling capacity. Med 
Sci Sports Exerc. 2011;43(10):1972–8.  
    232.    Saunders B, Sale C, Harris RC, Sunderland C. Effect 
of sodium bicarbonate and Beta-alanine on repeated 
sprints during intermittent exercise performed in 
hypoxia. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2014;
24(2):196–205.  
    233.    Hobson RM, Harris RC, Martin D, Smith P, Macklin B, 
Gualano B, et al. Effect of beta-alanine with and without 
sodium bicarbonate on 2,000-m rowing performance. 
Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2013;23(5):480–7.  
   234.    de Salles PV , Roschel H, de Jesus F, Sale C, Harris 
RC, Solis MY , et al. The ergogenic effect of beta- 
alanine combined with sodium bicarbonate on high- 
intensity swimming performance. Appl Physiol Nutr 
Metab. 2013;38(5):525–32.  
    235.    Ducker KJ, Dawson B, Wallman KE. Effect of beta 
alanine and sodium bicarbonate supplementation on 
repeated-sprint performance. J Strength Cond Res. 
2013;27(12):3450–60.  
     236.    Tobias G, Benatti FB, de Salles PV , Roschel H, 
Gualano B, Sale C, et al. Additive effects of beta- 
alanine and sodium bicarbonate on upper-body 
intermittent performance. Amino Acids. 2013;
45(2):309–17.  
         237.    Ohtani M, Maruyama K, Suzuki S, Sugita M, 
Kobayashi K. Changes in hematological parameters 
of athletes after receiving daily dose of a mixture of 
12 amino acids for one month during the middle- 
and long-distance running training. Biosci 
Biotechnol Biochem. 2001;65(2):348–55.  
    238.    Ohtani M, Sugita M, Maruyama K. Amino acid mix-
ture improves training efﬁ  ciency in athletes. J Nutr. 
2006;136(2):538S–43.  
        239.    Ohtani M, Maruyama K, Sugita M, Kobayashi K. 
Amino acid supplementation affects hematological 
and biochemical parameters in elite rugby players. 
Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2001;65(9):1970–6.  
    240.    Antonio J, Sanders MS, Ehler LA, Uelmen J, 
Raether JB, Stout JR. Effects of exercise training 
and amino-acid supplementation on body composi-
tion and physical performance in untrained women. 
Nutrition. 2000;16(11–12):1043–6.      M.B. Cooke and P.J. Cribb

223 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_10      Nutritional Supplements 
for Strength and Power Athletes 
           Colin     Wilborn     
    Abstract  
  Over the last decade, research involving nutritional supplementation and 
sport performance has increased substantially. Strength and power athletes 
have speciﬁ  c needs to optimize their performance. Nutritional supplemen-
tation cannot be viewed as a replacement for a balanced diet, but an impor-
tant addition to it. However, diet and supplementation are neither mutually 
exclusive nor does one depend on the other. Strength and power athletes 
have four general areas of supplementation needs. First strength athletes 
need supplements that have a direct effect on performance. The second 
areas of supplements are those that promote recovery. The third group is 
the supplements that enhance immune function. The last group of supple-
ments is those that provide energy or have a direct effect on the workout. 
This chapter will review the key supplements needed to optimize perfor-
mance and training of the strength athlete.  
  Keywords  
  Strength   •   Power   •   Hypertrophy   •   Recovery   •   Performance  
        C.   Wilborn ,  PhD, CSCS, ATC      ( *) 
  Human Performance Laboratory , 
  900 College Street ,  UMHB Box 8010 ,  Belton ,  TX  
 76513 ,  USA   
 e-mail: cwilborn@umhb.edu    10
10.1         Introduction 
    The supplement industry is a multibillion-dollar- a-
year industry. There are new and more innovative 
supplements that are released on daily basis. 
The problem that exists is that there is very little supporting evidence in many cases. Thus, we have 
to determine what is and what a superior sport 
supplement is not. 
 To stay on the cutting edge of nutritional sup-
plementation, we must identify what supple-
ments have been shown to be effective and safe 
when used properly. Many of the leading experts 
in the ﬁ  eld have identiﬁ  ed and separated many 
leading supplements into categories that range 
from safe and effective to those that have harmful 
side effects or no supporting literature. To try 
disseminating all of the information that is 

224
avail able, we have to ask three simple questions 
in regard to the speciﬁ  c supplement: Is there a 
sound scientiﬁ  c rationale? Is there any scientiﬁ  c 
evidence that the rationale may affect health or 
exercise? Is it legal and safe? While this text has 
covered many of the supplements out there, it is 
almost impossible to cover them all. This chapter 
will cover supplements that have strong evidence 
that they are safe, effective, and legal. 
 The two main components to becoming an 
advanced strength and power athlete are intense 
training and superior nutrition. While we can 
never devalue the importance of a balanced diet, 
nutrition supplementation can provide the impetus 
for huge gains. Nutrition is by far more difﬁ  cult to 
take care of than the training. You can have an 
excellent day from the training standpoint by sim-
ply putting in the time. Nutrition involves a 24 h a 
day 7 days a week commitment. Nutritional sup-
plementation is an area where a strength athlete 
can really separate themselves from the crowd. 
Strength and power athletes have many needs 
from a nutritional stand point. It would be detri-
mental to assume that the only supplements that 
strength athletes need are those that promote pro-
tein synthesis (discussed later). The demands of 
a strength athlete are very high, and the body 
must be put in an advantageous environment to 
make the appropriate adaptations. Nutrition hab-
its might make the difference between being able 
to withstand the pounding and physical abuse 
that a strength athlete endures and succumbing 
to the rapid onset of fatigue. Without providing 
the proper fuel to the body, it will not be able to 
operate at maximal ability. This is the main rea-
son why nutrition is such an important part of 
becoming the best that you can be. 
 The supplement needs of strength athletes can 
be broken down into four general categories. First, 
strength athletes need supplements that have a 
direct effect on performance. These supplements 
will have direct effect on protein synthesis, hor-
monal adaptations, or proven effects on strength, 
power, or hypertrophy. Second, there are supple-
ments that have been categorized to promote 
recovery. Strength athletes have demanding sched-
ules and intense workloads; their bodies need  optimal recovery. These supplements will enhance 
recovery and support adaptation. Third, there are 
supplements touted as an effective immune func-
tion option. These supplements will go hand in 
hand with those that promote recovery. Heavy and 
rigorous strength training can have negative effects 
on immune function. Thus, it is necessary to make 
sure that strength athlete’s nutritional standards are 
high. Finally, a fourth group, are supplements that 
provide energy or have a direct effect on the work-
out. These supplements create the optimal envi-
ronment for adaptation to rigorous training 
regimens. It is important to note that in many 
cases, these supplements overlap into many cat-
egories. However, it would be redundant to list 
them more than once. Taking the commitment 
and perfecting these habits will make a drastic 
improvement in performance, which will no 
doubt translate into success on the ﬁ  eld.  
10.2     Review of Literature 
  Supplements    that enhance strength, power, or 
hypertrophy directly   
10.2.1     Creatine 
 Creatine has dominated the supplement market 
for over a decade. Creatine has been researched 
more than any other nutritional supplement on 
the market today. Creatine is a nitrogenous 
organic compound obtained predominantly from 
the ingestion of meat or ﬁ  sh and is also synthe-
sized endogenously in the kidney, liver, and pan-
creas [ 1 ,  2 ]. Creatine is a naturally occurring 
amino acid that is derived from the amino acids 
glycine, arginine, and methionine. When creatine 
enters the muscle cell, it accepts a high-energy 
phosphate and forms phosphocreatine (PC). PC is 
the storage form of high-energy phosphate, which 
is used by the skeletal muscle cell to rapidly 
regenerate adenosine triphosphate (ATP) during 
bouts of maximal muscular contraction [ 3 ]. The 
conversion of ATP into adenosine diphosphate 
(ADP) and a phosphate group  generates the C. Wilborn

225
energy needed by the muscles during short-term, 
high-intensity exercise. PC availability in the 
muscles is vitally important in energy production 
since ATP is unable to be stored in excessive 
amounts within the muscle and is rapidly depleted 
during bouts of exhaustive exercise. Oral creatine 
monohydrate supplementation has been reported 
to increase muscle creatine and phosphocreatine 
(PC) content by 15–40 %, enhance the cellular 
bioenergetics of the phosphagen system, improve 
the shuttling of high- energy phosphates between 
the mitochondria and cytosol via the creatine 
phosphate shuttle, and enhance the activity of 
various metabolic pathways [ 4 ]. 
 While creatine research has now branched 
into its effects on cancer [ 5 ] and various delivery 
methods, strength and power athletes are only 
concerned about creatine’s amazing results in 
athletics. Scientiﬁ  c studies indicate that creatine 
supplementation is an effective and safe nutri-
tional strategy to promote gains in strength and 
muscle mass during resistance training [ 6 – 10 ]. 
Creatine has become one of the most popular 
nutritional supplements for resistance-trained 
athletes and body builders. In fact, creatine could 
be the most research nutritional supplement in 
the last decade. A recent periodical search 
yielded over 1,000 hits for creatine in sport and 
performance. 
 As previously noted, the energy for all-out 
maximal effort exercise lasting up to 10 s is pri-
marily derived from limited stores of adenosine 
triphosphate (ATP) in the muscle. Creatine, when 
present in the muscle in sufﬁ  cient amounts, 
donates a phosphate group to ADP, and it rapidly 
retransforms to ATP that is immediately available 
to the muscle to be used as fuel for exercise. 
During explosive exercise, the phosphate from 
PC stored in the muscle is also cleaved off to pro-
vide energy for resynthesis of ATP. This allows 
the ATP pool to be turned over several dozen 
times during an all-out maximal effort exercise 
bout lasting up to 10 s. Theoretically, the more 
creatine consumed, the more energy for brief 
high-intensity activity. However, it does appear 
that creatine supplementation has an upper limit. 
Once creatine stores are saturated, then excess 
creatine is not beneﬁ  cial. Thus, more recent research has based creatine supplementation on 
body weight or more speciﬁ  cally lean body mass. 
Creatine could be extremely advantageous to 
strength athletes given its ability to promote 
strength gains during training. Studies indicate 
that creatine supplementation during training can 
increase gains in one repetition maximum (1RM) 
strength and power. Peeters et al. [ 11 ] investi-
gated the effect of creatine monohydrate (CrM) 
and creatine phosphate (CrP) supplementation on 
strength, body composition, and blood pressure 
over a 6-week period. Strength tests performed 
were the one repetition maximum (1RM) bench 
press, 1RM leg press, and maximal repetitions on 
the seated preacher bar curl with a ﬁ  xed amount 
of weight. Subjects were divided into three 
groups matched for strength: placebo (Pl), CrM, 
and CrP. All subjects were provided a standard-
ized strength training regimen and ingested a 
loading dosage of 20 g per day for the ﬁ  rst 3 days 
of the study, followed by a maintenance dose of 
10 g per day for the remainder of the 6-week sup-
plementation period. Signiﬁ  cant differences were 
noted between the Pl group and the two Cr groups 
for changes in lean body mass, body weight, and 
1RM bench press. These results suggest that oral 
creatine supplementation will result in greater 
strength and fat-free mass development. Eckerson 
et al. [ 12 ] also studied the effects of 2 and 5 days 
of creatine loading on anaerobic working capac-
ity (AWC) using the critical power (CP) test in 
women. Ten physically active women randomly 
received two treatments separated by a 5-week 
washout period: (A) 18 g dextrose as placebo 
(PL) or (B) 5.0 g Cr + 18 g dextrose taken four 
times per day for 5 days. The PL resulted in no 
signiﬁ  cant changes in AWC following supple-
mentation; however, creatine increased AWC by 
22.1 % after 5 days of loading ( p  < 0.05). These 
results suggest that creatine supplementation is 
effective for increasing AWC in women follow-
ing 5 days of loading without an associated 
increase in BW. A study by V olek et al. [ 10 ] was 
undertaken to investigate the inﬂ  uence of oral 
supplementation with creatine monohydrate on 
muscular performance during repeated sets of 
high-intensity resistance exercise. Fourteen active 
men were randomly assigned in a double- blind 10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

226
fashion to either a creatine group or a placebo 
group. Both groups performed a bench press 
exercise protocol and a jump squat exercise pro-
tocol on three different occasions separated by 6 
days. Creatine supplementation resulted in a sig-
niﬁ cant improvement in peak power output dur-
ing all 5 sets of jump squats and a signiﬁ  cant 
improvement in repetitions during all 5 sets of 
bench presses. A signiﬁ  cant increase in body 
mass of 1.4 kg was observed after creatine inges-
tion. One week of creatine supplementation 
(25 g/day) enhances muscular performance dur-
ing repeated sets of bench press and jump squat 
exercise. Kreider et al. [ 13 ] conducted a study 
where 25 NCAA division IA football players 
were matched-paired and assigned to supplement 
their diet for 28 days during resistance/agility 
training with creatine. Subjects performed a max-
imal repetition test on the isotonic bench press, 
squat, and power clean; and subjects performed a 
cycle ergometer sprint test. Gains in bench press 
lifting volume; the sum of bench press, squat, and 
power clean lifting volume; and total work per-
formed during the ﬁ  rst ﬁ ve 6-s sprints were signiﬁ  -
cantly greater in the creatine group. The addition 
of the creatine supplement promoted greater gains 
in fat-/bone-free mass, isotonic lifting volume, and 
sprint performance during intense resistance/agil-
ity training. While this is only a few studies that 
have been reviewed, there are dozens of studies 
that have shown an increase in strength and power 
and high-intensity performance. 
 Over the course of a competitive season, ath-
letes tend to lose lean mass due to factors such 
as the increase stress on the body, alterations 
in resistance-training programs, eating habits, 
etc. Maintenance of muscle mass is the typical 
goal of strength coaches during the competitive 
season. Investigations with creatine supplemen-
tation on high-intensity intermittent exercise 
have typically been proven effective to increase 
performance and build muscle mass, suggest-
ing that athletes who ingest creatine would gain 
ergogenic beneﬁ  ts from supplementation. To 
test the effects of creatine to negate oxidative 
stress, Claudino and colleagues [ 14 ] researched 
recruited elite handball players to participate in a 
28-day training and supplementation period. If not in the control group, participants either ingested 
5 g of creatine monohydrate or maltodextrin a 
day over the course of the study in a double-blind 
manner. The strength training was programmed 
into four stages: familiarization, hypertrophy, 
strength, and peak. At the conclusion of the 
study, there was an increase in body mass for 
both groups (creatine: percent change = +0.8; 
ES = +0.1 and placebo: percent change = +2.2 %; 
ES = +0.1, main time effect  p  = 0.06), but results 
were not signiﬁ  cantly different between groups 
( p  = 0.7). All subjects experienced a decrease in 
jumping performance. With this in mind, the ath-
letes ingesting creatine exhibited an attenuated 
reduction in muscular power when compared to 
the placebo group [ 14 ]. 
 Thirty-two anaerobically strength-trained men 
were put through four experimental testing ses-
sions, consisting of either a 5 k run continuously 
at anaerobic threshold velocity or intermittently 
(1:1 min at vVO 2max ) followed by a leg or bench 
press 1RM test and repetitions to failure, to deter-
mine the ergogenic beneﬁ  ts of creatine on concur-
rent exercise [ 15 ]. With de Salles Painelli leading 
the investigation, the subjects were given 20 g a 
day for 7 days preloading, followed by 5 g per day 
of creatine or placebo during the study. The sup-
plementation of creatine was able to maintain leg 
press strength during the muscular endurance test 
when compared to the control group which 
decreased in leg press endurance ( p  = 0.05). 
Muscular endurance testing on the bench press 
was increased with the supplementation of cre-
atine after both aerobic training sessions. This 
research would suggest that creatine supplemen-
tation may negate the effects of concurrent exer-
cise, allowing athletes to increase work capacity 
without interfering with strength and muscular 
hypertrophy [ 15 ]. 
 While daily supplementation of creatine has 
been proven effective in increasing muscle ﬁ  ber 
size, augmenting gain in lean mass, and 
strength, time of supplementation has more 
often than not been shown to be most beneﬁ  cial 
to net muscle protein synthesis pre-workout. 
Pre- supplementation of creatine has been chal-
lenged by a study of Dr. Jose Antonio and 
Victoria Ciccone who found greater gains in C. Wilborn

227
body composition and strength in those who 
ingested creatine immediately after their work-
out. Nineteen recreational resistance-trained 
males participated in the 4-week study where 
they either ingested 5 g of creatine before their 
workout or 5 g after the completion of their work-
out completing four workouts a week. Body 
composition and bench press 1RM were the 
dependent variables, and results found a signiﬁ  -
cant time effect for both fat- free mass ( p  = 0.001) 
and bench press 1RM ( p  < 0.001). Magnitude 
inferences were used to determine the potential 
beneﬁ  t of either pre- or post-workout ingestion. 
The inferences revealed that post-supplementa-
tion was possibly for gains in fat-free mass (post, 
2.0 ± 1.2; pre, 0.4 ± 2.2) and losses in fat-free 
mass (post, −1.2 ± 1.6; pre, −0.01 ± 2.0) as well as 
likely beneﬁ  cial for increases in 1RM bench 
press (post, 7.6 ± 6.2; pre, 6.6 ± 8.2) [ 16 ]. 
 High-intensity exercise leads to an accumula-
tion of hydrogen atoms (acid) and carbon dioxide 
in the body. This can lead to a decrease of perfor-
mance, unless the acidity is buffered out. A proven 
effective acid buffer is sodium bicarbonate, more 
commonly known as baking soda. The bicarbonate 
ions bonds with the H+ and CO2 to bring the body 
back to a homeostatic state. Recently combination 
of creatine and sodium bicarbonate has been inves-
tigated to determine if a synergistic effect between 
the two supplements can allow for a higher training 
volume with an augmented response in protein 
synthesis. Barber and colleagues put 13 trained 
males through a supplementation period of either a 
placebo (Pl; 20 g maltodextrin + 0.5 g · kg (−1) 
maltodextrin), creatine (Cr; 20 g + 0.5 g · kg (−1) 
maltodextrin), or creatine plus sodium bicarbonate 
(Cr + Sb; 20 g + 0.5 g · kg (−1) sodium bicarbonate). 
The subjects underwent six 10-s Wingate sprint 
tests on a cycle ergometer with a minute rest 
between sprints. The peak power for sprints 4–6 
was signiﬁ  cantly lower than sprint 1, in both the 
placebo and creatine groups. Interestingly, those 
who ingested creatine plus sodium bicarbonate 
only saw a signiﬁ  cant decrease in power for sprint 
6, when compared to the baseline sprint. Suggesting 
that a co-supplementation of both creatine and 
sodium bicarbonate can help maintain power and 
force in high-intensity exercise [ 17 ].  10.2.2     Protein and Amino Acids 
 It has long been believed that excess protein 
intake was necessary for optimal muscle growth 
in response to strength training. First, we must 
understand that skeletal muscle growth is possi-
ble only when muscle protein synthesis exceeds 
muscle protein breakdown. The body is in a con-
tinuous state of protein turnover; as old proteins 
are destroyed or degraded, new ones are being 
synthesized. Thus, when synthesis of contractile 
proteins is occurring at a faster rate than degrada-
tion, the net result is a positive protein balance or 
more speciﬁ  cally myoﬁ  brillar hypertrophy. 
Knowing this, we understand that we need pro-
tein or the building blocks of those proteins, 
amino acids (AA), available to ensure that we are 
in a positive balance. However, the only problem 
is that we really do not store amino acids in our 
body, but draw available amino acids from the 
amino acid pool. The amino acid pool is a mix-
ture of amino acids available in the cell derived 
from dietary sources or the degradation of pro-
tein. A protein balance is achieved when the 
dietary intake is balanced by the excretion of urea 
wastes. Amino acids enter this pool by three 
ways. Amino acids enter during digestion of pro-
tein in the diet, when body protein decomposes, 
and when carbon sources and NH 3  synthesize the 
nonessential amino acids. In addition, the body 
attempts to maintain a pattern of constancy in the 
free AA pool and in the rate of protein turnover. 
As previously noted amino acids are not actually 
stored but are in constant turnover. The AA pool 
exists to provide individual AAs for protein syn-
thesis and oxidation, and it is replenished only by 
protein breakdown or AA's entering the body 
from the diet. Thus, the free amino acid pool pro-
vides the link between dietary protein and body 
protein in that both dietary protein and body pro-
tein feeds into the free pool. Effects of dietary 
protein intake play a vital role on AA pools. Not 
only does the amount of dietary protein intake 
play a role but also the type of protein or amino 
acid as well as the frequency of ingestion. 
 It is clear from a physiological perspective that 
we cannot properly build muscle without sufﬁ  -
cient protein intake. Research has clearly deﬁ  ned 10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

228
a vital role of protein and AA supplementation in 
the development of skeletal muscle. It is interest-
ing to note that previous studies have concluded 
that acute protein synthesis following resistance 
training is similar in fed [ 18 ] and fasted [ 19 ,  20 ] 
subjects. Only the rate of turnover changes 
slightly, but still remains in a negative balance. 
However, studies have found that with dietary 
protein or amino acid supplementation, muscle 
protein synthesis rate is increased. Biolo et al. [ 21 ] 
evaluated the interactions between resistance 
training and amino acid supplementation and the 
corresponding effects on protein kinetics. Six 
untrained men acted as subjects in this study. 
Each participant was infused with a mixed (phe-
nylalanine, leucine, lysine, alanine, glutamine) 
amino acid solution. Baseline and post-resis tance-
training (5 × 10 sets of leg press and 4 × 8 sets of 
nautilus squat, leg curl, and leg extension) sam-
ples were taken. The results revealed increased 
protein synthesis and no change in protein degra-
dation. Tipton and colleagues [ 22 ] investigated 
the effects of orally administered amino acids 
(40 g CHO (placebo solution), 40 g mixed amino 
acids (EAA + NEAA), or 40 g essential amino 
acids (EAA only + arginine)) on postexercise net 
protein synthesis. They also sought to determine 
whether there would be a difference in the ana-
bolic effect of amino acid supplementation if 
they used a mixed amino acid source or essential 
amino acids alone. The ﬁ  ndings of this study 
indicated that postexercise amino acid supple-
mentation elicits a positive protein balance as 
compared to the negative balance seen with resis-
tance training alone. The Tipton study also con-
cluded that supplementation with the essential 
amino acids alone is equivalent to that of a mixed 
amino acid supplement. Although research has 
concluded that postexercise amino acid supple-
mentation has positive effect on protein synthe-
sis, amino acid supplementation is not always an 
option. Thus, Esmark et al. [ 23 ] investigated the 
timing of protein intake after exercise on muscle 
hypertrophy and strength. This study used a milk 
and soy protein supplement (containing 10 g 
protein (from skimmed milk and soybean), 7 g 
carbohydrate, and 3.3 g lipid) instead of an amino 
acid mixture. Although protein synthesis was not calculated in this study, measurements of hyper-
trophy were made. As previously noted, muscu-
lar hypertrophy is the result of net protein 
synthesis. The results of the Esmark study indi-
cated that skeletal muscle hypertrophy was sig-
niﬁ cantly increased after resistance training when 
a protein supplement was taken. The ﬁ  ndings also 
suggested that when the supplement was taken 
immediately after the training versus 2 h later, the 
hypertrophic response was greater. In the most 
recent study by Tipton and colleagues [ 24 ], they 
evaluated the effects of casein and whey protein 
ingestion on protein balance after resistance train-
ing. Twenty-three subjects consumed one of three 
drinks 1 h after a bout of leg extensions. Subjects 
consumed either placebo, 20 g of casein protein, 
or 20 g of whey protein. The results indicated that 
ingestion of whey or casein protein after a bout of 
resistance exercise increases net muscle protein 
synthesis. In a review by Rennie and colleagues 
[ 25 ], they concluded that there is no doubt that 
increasing amino acid concentrations by intrave-
nous infusion, meal feeding, or ingestion of free 
amino acids increases muscle protein synthesis. 
They also concluded that in the postexercise 
period, increased availability of amino acids 
enhances muscle protein synthesis. These studies 
have clearly identiﬁ  ed that amino acid or protein 
supplementation enhances protein synthesis and 
suppresses degradation, resulting in net protein 
synthesis. 
 Another possibility of AA supplementation is 
to supplement the branched chain amino acids 
(BCAAs). The BCAAs are made up of leucine, 
isoleucine, and valine. BCAAs are the only AAs 
that are used exclusively for the synthesis of tis-
sue protein and not for other hormones; thus, 
their value is paramount. The BCAAs cannot be 
broken down in the liver like the other AAs. Liver 
does not contain the branched amino acid amino-
transferase enzyme, which other tissues like the 
muscle do. These amino acids are unique in that 
their amino group can be removed to form 
a- ketoglutarate to make branched chain keto 
acids plus the amino acid glutamate. The amino 
group on glutamate is transferred to pyruvate 
regenerating a-ketoglutarate to form alanine and 
glutamine. Elevated levels of BCAA in the free C. Wilborn

229
pool contribute various metabolic pathways, 
producing many intermediates that could be 
important to cellular metabolism. Given that 
BCAAs are involved in the synthesis of gluta-
mine, they may play an important role for strength 
and power athletes. Glutamine (which will be 
discussed later in detail) has a beneﬁ  cial effect on 
recovery. This is important given the rigor of the 
training regimens of strength athletes. 
 Therefore, it is clear from these studies and 
others that protein or AA supplementation does 
enhance the physiological adaptations of resis-
tance training. A recent review by Kersick and 
Leutholtz [ 26 ] had the following conclusions as a 
synopsis of the current literature on protein and 
AA supplementation. First, ingestion of amino 
acids after resistance exercise has been shown at 
many different time points in several studies to 
stimulate increases in muscle protein synthesis, 
cause minimal changes in protein breakdown, 
and increase overall protein balance. Kersick also 
concluded that intact proteins or combinations of 
them that are commonly used in popular protein 
supplements appear to elicit similar increases in 
protein balance after resistance training as com-
pared to other studies using free amino acids. 
 Whey protein isolate has been known for aug-
menting protein synthesis postexercise, but in 
2010, it was also proven beneﬁ  cial in attenuating 
the negative effects of isometric and isokinetic 
forces in untrained individuals [ 27 ]. Seventeen 
males volunteered and ingested 1.5 g/kg.bw/day 
(totaling to ~30 g per day) of either a whey pro-
tein isolate or carbohydrate for 14 days. During 
the course of the study, the participants com-
pleted a unilateral isokinetic knee ﬂ  exion and iso-
kinetic/isometric knee extension on each leg via 
the Cybex Testing and Rehabilitation System of 
four sets of 10 repetitions at 120 % of maximum 
voluntary contraction. Along with assessments of 
strength, plasma creatine kinase, and lactate 
dehydrogenase, markers of muscle damage were 
determined 24-h postexercise as well as 2, 3, 4, 7, 
10, and 14 days following the testing session. 
The researchers Cooke, Rybalka, Stathis, Cribb, 
and Hayes concluded that isometric knee exten-
sion strength was signiﬁ  cantly higher, following 
whey protein supplementation 3 and 7 days into recovery versus those on carbohydrate supple-
mentation. During the recovery period, partici pants 
who were taking whey protein supplementations 
experienced a lower lactate dehydrogenase level 
during recovery [ 27 ]. 
 Along with whey, casein is also a popular form 
of protein, both are extracted from milk proteins, 
but the method of absorption and bioavailability 
make these two protein sources very different. To 
test the effect of whey and casein on protein syn-
thesis, Wilborn and colleagues put NCAA DIII 
female basketball players through an 8-week off-
season undulating periodized training program 4 
days per week, and they ingested either 24 g of 
whey protein or 24 g of casein protein 30 min 
prior and immediately after each training session. 
Variables tested on the athletes were body compo-
sition, 1RM on bench press as well as leg press, 
muscular endurance, and skill testing. Both exper-
imental groups had a decrease in body fat with 
those on whey protein experiencing a higher loss 
in percent body fat (whey protein, −2.0 ± 1.1 %; 
casein protein, −1.0 ± 1.6 %;  p  > 0.001). Both 
groups had an increase in lean body mass (WP, 
−1.3 ± 1.2 kg; CP, 1.4 ± 1.0 kg;  p  > 0.001) as well 
as a decrease in fat mass. The athletes who 
ingested whey protein lost 1.3 ± 1.2 kg of fat mass, 
while the casein protein group lost 0.6 ± 1.4 kg of 
body weight from fat. Although there was no sig-
niﬁ cant difference between the groups, all of the 
athletes experienced an increase in strength, elud-
ing to protein’s ability to elicit strength gain from 
resistance training. For power and agility, there 
were no signiﬁ  cant differences between groups. 
In spite of the study revealing a difference in per-
formance markers or body composition between 
whey and casein, Wilborn did prove the ability 
of females to elicit increase in muscle mass and 
decrease in fat mass from protein supplementa-
tion, allowing for an increase in strength and 
performance [ 28 ]. 
 For active individuals who want to activate 
protein synthesis after exercise, the recommended 
intake of protein is 1.4–2.0 g/kg.bw/day, higher 
than the Dietary Reference Intakes (DRI) which 
is about 0.8 g/kg.bw/day. If a higher protein 
diet along with resistance training can help aug-
ment muscle growth, would a very high-protein 10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

230
diet elicit an even higher response in lean body 
mass? This question was answered by Dr. Jose 
Antonio, who recruited 30 resistance-trained males 
to ingest either their typical daily intake of protein 
or 4.4 g/kg.bw/day [ 29 ]. This diet was maintained 
for 8 weeks, and body composition, dietary food 
logs, and training volume were measured over the 
course of the study. At the conclusion of the study, 
it was determined that the high-protein subjects 
consumed on average 307 ± 69 g of protein com-
pared to the control group who ingested roughly 
138 ± 42 g of protein. Even though the high-protein 
subjects did experience a signiﬁ  cant increase in 
protein ingestion, there were no signiﬁ  cant differ-
ences in the changes of body composition between 
the groups. The high-protein group did not expe-
rience a signiﬁ  cant increase in lean body mass 
from taking in excess protein. The conclusion of 
the study suggests that having a hypocaloric diet 
as well as consuming ﬁ  ve times the recommended 
protein intake did not augment an increase in pro-
tein proliferation [ 29 ].  
10.2.3     Carnosine/ β-Alanine 
 Carnosine is a dipeptide comprised of the amino 
acids histidine and β-alanine naturally occurring 
in the brain, cardiac muscle, kidney, stomach, and 
in large amounts in skeletal muscles. Carnosine 
has been widely studied for its effects on improved 
wound healing, antioxidant activity, and its anti-
aging properties. Carnosine is found in high con-
centrations in skeletal muscle, primarily the type 
II muscle ﬁ  bers. These are the fast- twitch muscle 
ﬁ bers used in explosive movements like weight 
training and sprinting. In fact, it has also been 
concluded that carnosine levels are found in 
higher concentrations in athletes whose perfor-
mance demands serious anaerobic output. 
 Carnosine contributes to buffering of H+, thus 
attenuating a drop in pH associated with anaero-
bic metabolism. Carnosine is very effective at 
buffering the hydrogen ions responsible for pro-
ducing the ill effects of lactic acid. Carnosine is 
believed to be one of the primary muscle- 
buffering substances available in skeletal muscle. 
In theory, if carnosine could attenuate the drop in pH noted with high-intensity exercise, then one 
could possibly exercise longer. However, carno-
sine is rapidly degraded into β-alanine and histi-
dine as soon as it enters the blood through the 
activity of the enzyme, carnosinase. As such, 
there is no advantage to using direct carnosine 
supplementation. Thus, β-alanine is believed to 
be the answer to increasing carnosine in skeletal 
muscle. β-Alanine is an amino acid that is not 
involved in structural proteins and functions to 
combine with another amino acid, histidine, to 
form carnosine. However, the synthesis is under 
some kind of limited control. Using a supplemen tal 
form of β-alanine can signiﬁ  cantly increase the 
synthesis. Histidine is already present in abun-
dance within skeletal muscles, so it is β-alanine 
that acts as the rate-limiting factor in carnosine 
conversion. Recent studies conducted by Dr. 
Roger Harris [ 30 ] have demonstrated that taking 
β-alanine orally is effective at increasing carno-
sine levels. An individual that takes β-alanine 
orally on a regular basis can expect to increase 
their muscle’s synthesis of carnosine by up to 
64 %. This study also showed that your body only 
creates a certain amount of carnosine. This does 
increase as you work out, but it does eventually 
plateau. At this point, the only way to increase 
your body’s production of carnosine is to take 
β-alanine orally. A recent study [ 31 ] supple-
mented men with β-alanine for 10 weeks. Muscle 
carnosine was signiﬁ  cantly increased by +58.8 % 
and +80.1 % after 4- and 10-week β-alanine sup-
plementation. Carnosine, initially 1.71 times 
higher in type IIa ﬁ  bers, increased equally in both 
type I and IIa ﬁ  bers, with no increase observed in 
control subjects. 
 Researchers including Roger Harris and Jeff 
Stout have begun to do extensive research in the 
area of β-alanine supplementation for strength 
athletes. Stout et al. [ 32 ] recently conducted a 
study that examined the effects of β-alanine sup-
plementation on physical working capacity at 
fatigue threshold (PWCFT) in untrained young 
men. The results revealed a signiﬁ  cantly greater 
increase in PWCFT of 9 % over placebo. The 
ﬁ ndings suggest that β-alanine supplementation 
for 28 days may delay the onset of neuromuscu lar 
fatigue. Another study by Stout [ 33 ] examined C. Wilborn

231
the effects of 28 days of β-alanine supplementa tion 
on the physical working capacity at fatigue 
threshold, ventilatory threshold, maximal oxygen 
consumption, and time-to- exhaustion in women. 
Results of this study indicated that β-alanine sup-
plementation delays the onset of neuromuscular 
fatigue and the ventilatory threshold at submaxi-
mal workloads and increases in total time to 
exhaustion during maximal cycle ergometry per-
formance. Stout concluded that β-alanine supple-
mentation appears to improve submaximal cycle 
ergometry performance and total time to exhaus-
tion in young women, perhaps as a result of an 
increased buffering capacity due to elevated mus-
cle carnosine concentrations. 
 In the last 2 years, there have been several 
studies that have investigated the effects of sup-
plementing both creatine and β-alanine together. 
This proposed beneﬁ  t would increase work capac-
ity and decrease time to fatigue. Hoffman [ 34 ] 
studied the effects of creatine and creatine plus 
β-alanine on strength, power, body composition, 
and endocrine changes examined during a 
10-week resistance-training program in collegiate 
football players. Results of this study demon-
strated that creatine plus β-alanine was effective at 
enhancing strength performance. Creatine plus 
β-alanine supplementation also appeared to have 
a greater effect on lean tissue accruement and 
body fat composition than creatine alone. Stout 
[ 32 ] also investigated the effects of β-alanine and 
creatine on the onset of fatigue. Stout found that 
while β-alanine was effective at reducing fatigue, 
creatine did not have an additive effect. 
 The most recent studies that document the 
effectiveness of β-alanine are just now being pub-
lished. There are many studies that have recently 
been completed that are yet to be published. 
However, there appears to be enough research cur-
rently to evaluate its effectiveness. It appears that 
not only does β-alanine appear to increase muscle 
carnosine levels, but those changes appear to trans-
late into performance beneﬁ  ts. Due to the relation-
ship with carnosine, the investigation of the 
ergogenic effects of beta-alanine and its ability to 
delay neuromuscular fatigue has rapidly increased 
in recent years. While some of the research is 
still conﬂ icting, beta-alanine has been shown to be an effective performance-enhancing supplement 
within the research literature. For example, in a 
study measuring the effectiveness of beta-alanine 
on work capacity at heart rate threshold, research-
ers found that a 28-day supplementation of beta-
alanine was potentially able to increase heart rate 
training threshold [ 35 ]. Beta-alanine’s ability to 
enhance high interval training has been the focus of 
a majority of research. In a study using 50 recre-
ationally trained men, there was no difference in 
anaerobic running capacity between those taking 
the supplementation and the subjects who were 
participating in the intermittent running alone [ 35 ]. 
Similar results were found using cycle ergometer 
HITT training and beta-alanine on increasing 
VO 2peak  [ 36 ]. The study covered 6 weeks with par-
ticipants performing interval training 3 times per 
week while taking the supplement. At the conclu-
sion of the study, the supplementation of beta-ala-
nine was not conducive to an increase in VO 2peak  
[ 36 ]. To test the buffering effects of increased car-
nosine via beta-alanine supplementation during 
severe exercise, Gross and colleagues administered 
supplementation of beta-alanine pre- and post-
severe cycling intervals [ 37 ]. It was determined that 
supplementation had beneﬁ  cial effect on sever 
exercise metabolism, allowing participants to expe-
rience an increased aerobic energy metabolism. 
Also those on beta-alanine supplementation expe-
rienced a reduced lactate accumulation, leading 
support to the buffering beneﬁ  ts of increased car-
nosine stores [ 37 ]. Several recent studies have 
investigated the synergistic effect of beta-alanine 
with the buffering capabilities of sodium bicarbon-
ate on maximal cardiovascular sprints. The current 
research concludes that a co-supplementation may 
be effective in negating the metabolic effects of 
sprint interval work [ 38 ,  39 ]. It has been proposed 
that athletes who are considered highly trained may 
experience a less ergogenic response than those in 
a deconditioned state. In 2014, de Salles Painelli 
and colleagues conducted a study testing this the-
ory. Over the course of 4 weeks, trained partici-
pants as well as non-trained individuals were 
given either beta-alanine or placebo. The study 
revealed that both trained and non- trained indi-
viduals are capable of gaining ergogenic beneﬁ  ts 
from beta-alanine [ 40 ].   10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

232
10.3     Arginine/
Alpha-Ketoglutarate 
 Arginine is one of the amino acids produced in 
the human body by the digestion or hydrolysis of 
proteins. Arginine can also be produced syntheti-
cally. Because it is produced in the body, it is 
referred to as nonessential, meaning that no food 
or supplements are necessary for humans to 
ingest. Arginine compounds can be used in treat-
ing people with liver dysfunction due to its role in 
promoting liver regeneration. 
 The amino acid arginine has several roles in 
the body, such as assisting in wound healing, 
helping remove excess ammonia from the body, 
stimulating immune function, and promoting 
secretion of several hormones, including gluca-
gon, insulin, and growth hormone. NO 2  is a com-
pound produced from the amino acid arginine 
that elicits arteriole vasodilation and assists in 
nutrient transport/recovery in muscles. This has 
been proposed to cause a perpetual muscle pump 
in users as well as condone gains in muscle. 
 Campbell and colleagues [ 40 ] evaluated the 
pharmacokinetics, safety, and efﬁ  cacy of argi-
nine α-ketoglutarate (AAKG) in trained adult 
men. Subjects participated in two studies that 
employed a randomized, double-blind, controlled 
design. In study 1, 10 healthy men fasted for 8 h 
and then ingested 4 g of timed-release or non-
timed- release AAKG. Blood samples were taken 
for 8 h after AAKG ingestion to assess the phar-
macokinetic proﬁ  le of  l -arginine. After 1 week, 
the alternative supplement was ingested. In study 
2, which was placebo controlled, 35 resistance- 
trained adult men were randomly assigned to 
ingest 4 g of AAKG (three times a day) or pla-
cebo. Participants performed 4 days of periodized 
resistance training per week for 8 weeks. At 0, 4, 
and 8 weeks of supplementation, the following 
tests were performed: clinical blood markers, one 
repetition maximum bench press, isokinetic 
quadriceps muscle endurance, anaerobic power, 
aerobic capacity, total body water, body composi-
tion, and psychometric parameter tests. In study 1, 
signiﬁ  cant differences were observed in plasma 
arginine levels in subjects taking non-timed- 
release and timed-release AAKG. In study 2,  signiﬁ  cant differences were observed in the 
AAKG group for 1RM bench press, Wingate 
peak power, blood glucose, and plasma arginine. 
No signiﬁ  cant differences were observed between 
groups in body composition, total body water, 
isokinetic quadriceps muscle endurance, and aer-
obic capacity. AAKG supplementation appeared 
to be safe and well tolerated and positively inﬂ  u-
enced 1RM bench press and Wingate peak power 
performance. A    study conducted by Elam et al. 
[ 41 ], combining weight training with either 
arginine and ornithine or placebo, found that the 
amino acid combination produced decreases in 
body fat, resulted in higher total strength and lean 
body mass, and reduced evidence of tissue break-
down after only 5 weeks. 
 It is well documented that the infusion of argi-
nine stimulated growth hormone secretion from 
the anterior pituitary [ 42 – 44 ]. This increase in 
growth hormone secretion from arginine infusion 
has been attributed to the suppression of endoge-
nous somatostatin secretion. However, other stud-
ies done in human trials have not had positive 
results. Janet Walberg-Rankin [ 45 ] studied the 
effects of arginine on growth hormone (GH) and 
inﬂ uence on body composition and muscle func-
tion. Male weight trainers were divided into three 
groups, including control (Con), arginine (Arg), 
and placebo (Pla), and given a similar resistance 
exercise prescription. Subjects in the Pla and Arg 
group demonstrated a signiﬁ  cant decrease in peak 
torque for the biceps and quadriceps. Neither sup-
plement acutely affected serum GH or arginine 
over 90 min after ingestion. There was no signiﬁ  -
cant difference between groups in nitrogen bal-
ance. Thus, the supplement had no inﬂ  uence on 
weight loss, fat or lean tissue loss, muscle func-
tion, or overall GH status. 
 At very high intakes (approximately 250 mg 
per 2.2 lb of body weight), the amino acid, argi-
nine, has increased growth hormone levels [ 46 ], 
an effect that has interested body builders due to 
the role of growth hormone in stimulating muscle 
growth. However, at lower amounts recom-
mended by some manufacturers (5 g taken 30 min 
before exercise), arginine failed to increase 
growth hormone release and may even have 
impaired the release of growth hormone in C. Wilborn

233
younger adults [ 47 ]. High amounts of arginine do 
not appear to raise levels of insulin [ 48 ], another 
anabolic bodybuilding hormone. More modest 
amounts of a combination of these amino acids 
have not had measurable effects on any anabolic 
hormone levels during exercise. 
 While it is obvious that there are conﬂ  icting 
results in the literature, it is important to discuss 
arginine as a nutritional supplement. Arginine or 
NO 2  has been one of the hottest supplements over 
the last few years. There are tons of anecdotal 
evidence suggesting that arginine is a powerful 
modulator of strength and performance; however, 
the current literature is not decisive. 
10.3.1     Aromatase Inhibitors 
 The never-ending pursuit of bigger muscles, by 
athletes and bodybuilders, leads to the creation of 
new and innovative supplements to compliment 
vigorous training. Over the last 20 years, research 
in the area of sport nutrition has conﬁ  rmed the 
beneﬁ  t of supplements such as creatine, BCAAs, 
and whey protein. However, the most potent and 
anabolic agent is naturally occurring testosterone. 
Testosterone is a hormone naturally produced by 
the body. The Anabolic effect of testosterone 
includes promotion of the protein biosynthesis. 
It accelerates muscle buildup, increases the forma-
tion of red blood cells, speeds up regeneration, 
and speeds up recovery time after injuries or ill-
ness. It also stimulates the entire metabolism, 
which results in the burning of body fat. Studies 
by Bhasin et al. [ 49 – 52 ] and Sinh-Hikim et al. 
[ 53 ,  54 ] have shown that testosterone at  supra-
physiological levels increases muscle size and 
strength. Thus, many supplement companies 
have sought to create ways to increase naturally 
occurring levels of testosterone. Over the last 
decade, many supplements such as prohormones, 
testosterone derivatives, and now aromatase 
inhibitors have ﬂ  ooded the market with promises 
of “testosterone” like gains in strength and lean 
mass. The newest of these supplements are aro-
matase inhibitors (AIs). Although AIs are not new 
themselves, they are relatively new to the ﬁ  tness 
community. Aromatase is an enzyme involved in the production of estrogen that acts by catalyzing 
the conversion of testosterone (an androgen) to 
estradiol (an estrogen) [ 55 ]. 
 AIs have been used in an “athletic” setting for 
many years. However, their use was only thought 
to be beneﬁ  cial to individuals using steroids. 
Steroids that aromatize heavily are responsible 
for extreme elevations in estrogen. Higher than 
normal estrogen levels can lead to several physi-
ological problems. Thus, aromatase inhibitors 
have been used to prevent the testosterone con-
version and limit the negative effects of aroma-
tase. Recently the idea has been proposed that 
AIs may present an advantageous option for indi-
viduals not on steroids. Zmuda et al. [ 56 ] investi-
gated the effects of an aromatase inhibitor in 14 
male subjects. Researchers found that serum tes-
tosterone levels increased during all three drug 
treatments, whereas estradiol level increased 
only with testosterone alone, demonstrating that 
the aromatase inhibitor effectively inhibited tes-
tosterone aromatization. Leder [ 57 ] investigated 
the ability of the orally administered aromatase 
inhibitor, anastrozole, to increase endogenous 
testosterone production in 37 elderly men with 
screening serum testosterone levels less than 
350 ng/dl. The ﬁ  ndings of this study demonstrate 
that aromatase inhibition increases serum bio-
available and total testosterone levels to the 
youthful normal range in older men with mild 
hypogonadism. Serum estradiol levels decrease 
modestly but remain within the normal male 
range. Furthermore research has investigated 
eugonadal boys that were given the aromatase 
inhibitors exemestane [ 58 ] and anastrozole [ 59 ]; 
there was a comparable suppression of estradiol 
with a parallel increase in testosterone and free 
testosterone concentrations. 
 Now that science has determined, in fact, that 
AIs do increase testosterone levels, a new wave 
of AIs have hit the market. Traditionally AIs are 
obtained by prescription. However, many nutri-
tional supplements are now available that claim 
to inhibit aromatase. A study on an over-the- 
counter AI was recently completed [ 60 ]. This 
study examined the blood hormone responses 
over a 3-week cycle of 600 mg per day of AI. 
The study used six normal men aged 32–40, and in 10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

234
addition to tracking changes in sex hormone lev els, 
it also looked at common indicators of toxicity. 
Total testosterone levels rose by an average of 
188 %, while free testosterone levels rose by 
an average of 226 % over the course of 3 weeks. 
A nonsigniﬁ  cant decrease in estradiol was also 
seen. Furthermore, Numazawa and colleagues 
[ 61 ,  62 ] have shown that androst-4-ene-3,6,17- 
trione (the active ingredient in 6-OXO™) irre-
versibly binds to the aromatase enzyme thereby 
causing a halt in estradiol production. 
 A recent study conducted at Baylor University 
examined the effects a newly marketed aroma-
tase inhibitor on body composition and changes 
in serum hormone levels [ 63 ]. All subjects were 
considered experienced weight lifters with a min-
imum of 1 year of experience. The 16 partici-
pants were equally divided, matched by age and 
body weight, and then assigned an 8-week sup-
plementation protocol consisting of the oral 
ingestion of either 4 capsules/day (72 mg/day of 
hydroxyandrost-4-ene-6,17-dioxo-3-THP ether 
and 3,17-diketo-androst-1,4,6-triene) at bed time 
or 4 capsules/day of placebo (72 mg maltodex-
trin) at bed time. Total body mass and body com-
position, as well as venous blood samples were 
determined at week 0 and after weeks 4, 8, and 
11. Results indicated signiﬁ  cant changes in both 
free and total testosterone. Total endogenous tes-
tosterone, free testosterone, and dihydrotestoster-
one (DHT) increased by an average of 300, 600, 
and 630 % from baseline, respectively, in 8 
weeks. While there were signiﬁ  cant increases in 
testosterone and DHT, there were no signiﬁ  cant 
changes in estradiol, estrone, estriol, or a variety 
of serum and urinary clinical safety markers. 
Therefore, these increases in testosterone and no 
change in estrogen would lead us to believe that 
the aromatase enzyme was apparently inhibited 
by the supplement. Furthermore, body fat signiﬁ  -
cantly decreased 1 % in the active group with 
1.5 lb decrease in fat mass. At the end of 8 weeks 
of supplementation, subjects had a 3-week wash-
out period. After 3 weeks of washout, testoster-
one and estrogen levels had returned to normal 
baseline levels. The results of this study also con-
cluded that there were no signiﬁ  cant changes in 
any clinical safety markers, particu larly those indicative of hepatic and renal function. The results 
of this study suggest that over-the-counter aro-
matase inhibitors can increase endogenous levels 
of testosterone without adversely affecting clini-
cal safety markers. 
 The results of this study have concluded that 
aromatase inhibition can increase fat-free mass 
by increasing the endogenous levels of testoster-
one. Years of research on aromatase inhibitors 
have helped breast cancer patients and meno-
pause and andropause sufferers. Results of the 
years of research have concluded that aromatase 
inhibitors can decrease estrogen and increase 
testosterone. This might lead us to believe that 
there is some beneﬁ  t to resistance-trained ath letes 
in using these products.  
10.3.2     ZMA 
 The biological importance of magnesium and 
zinc is revealed by the various metabolic pro-
cesses in which these elements regulate biologi-
cal function. Zinc and Magnesium are two 
minerals that are used in a number of metabolic 
processes and hormonal regulation. Zinc is an 
essential trace element involved in a range of 
vital biochemical processes and is required for 
the activity of more than 300 enzymes. Zinc- 
containing enzymes participate in many compo-
nents of macronutrient metabolism, particularly 
cell replication. Zinc deﬁ  ciencies have been 
shown to be higher in athletes and/or individuals 
who recreationally train [ 64 – 66 ]. Singh et al. [ 65 , 
 66 ] investigated blood (plasma) levels of zinc, 
and other trace minerals were determined in 66 
men before and after a 5-day period of sustained 
physical and psychological stress. Singh found 
that zinc levels decreased by 33 %. 
 These zinc deﬁ  ciencies may also contribute to 
impaired immune function and decreased perfor-
mance [ 64 ,  67 – 69 ]. A 2004 review by Gleeson 
et al. [ 70 ] concluded both heavy exercise and 
nutrition exert separate inﬂ  uences on immune 
function; these inﬂ  uences appear to be stronger 
when exercise stress and poor nutrition act syner-
gistically. Dietary deﬁ  ciencies of energy, protein, 
and speciﬁ  c micronutrients are associated with C. Wilborn

235
depressed immune function and increased sus-
ceptibility to infection. 
 Magnesium is an essential element in human 
nutrition; it is the cofactor in enzymes of carbo-
hydrate metabolism. Magnesium, a ubiquitous 
element that plays a fundamental role in many 
cellular reactions, is involved in more than 300 
enzymatic reactions in which food is metabolized 
and new products are formed. Some important 
examples include glycolysis, fat and protein 
metabolism, adenosine triphosphate synthesis, 
and second messenger system. Magnesium also 
serves as a physiological regulator of membrane 
stability and in neuromuscular, cardiovascular, 
immune, and hormonal function. Magnesium has 
also been shown to diminish the hormone cortisol 
[ 71 ]. Cortisol has been shown to be detrimental 
to strength gains and muscle mass. A 1984 [ 72 ] 
study that found 14 days of magnesium supple-
mentation decreased cortisol. Another study [ 73 ] 
in 1998 found similar results, concluding that 
magnesium supplementation reduced the stress 
response without affecting competitive potential. 
 Magnesium supplementation has been reported 
to improve adaptations to exercise, speciﬁ  cally 
resistance training [ 69 ,  74 ,  75 ]. Therefore, supple-
mentation of zinc and magnesium may enhance 
immune function, the hormone testosterone, 
increase strength, and diminish the effects of cor-
tisol, thus having a beneﬁ  t to resistance-training 
athletes. 
 A 2000 study [ 76 ] found signiﬁ  cant changes 
in hormones (testosterone, IGF-1) and muscle 
strength when athletes supplemented with a zinc 
and magnesium supplement. 
 Zinc and magnesium supplementation has 
been reported to have positive effects on 
resistance- training athletes [ 74 ,  76 ,  77 ]. 
Subsequently decreases in zinc and magnesium 
have been associated with loss of strength and 
muscle mass. However, athletes have been 
reported to have lower levels of zinc and magne-
sium possibly due to increased sweating while 
training or inadequate intake in their diets [ 65 , 
 66 ,  78 – 80 ]. A 2000 study was conducted on col-
legiate football players during 8 weeks of spring 
practice. The purpose of this study was to assess 
the effect of a novel Zn, Mg, and vitamin B6 for-mulation (ZMA) on anabolic hormones and 
muscle function. Twenty-seven subjects success-
fully followed the nightly supplement regimen 
over the course of the study and completed the 
testing sessions. The results of ZMA supplemen-
tation on anabolic hormone proﬁ  le in football 
players pre-post spring football practice indicates 
that the ZMA group had increased concentrations 
of total testosterone, free testosterone, and IGF-I 
compared to plateaus or drops in the placebo 
group. Signiﬁ  cant increases in isokinetic torque 
and power measurements were also seen. The 
ZMA group increases were signiﬁ  cantly different 
than the placebo group. Wilborn et al. [ 81 ] exam-
ined whether supplementing the diet with a com-
mercial supplement containing zinc magnesium 
aspartate (ZMA) during training affects zinc and 
magnesium status, anabolic and catabolic hor-
mone proﬁ  les, and/or training adaptations. Forty- 
two resistance-trained males were matched 
according to fat-free mass and randomly assigned 
to ingest in a double-blind manner either a dex-
trose placebo (P) or ZMA 30–60 min prior to 
going to sleep during 8 weeks of standardized 
resistance training. Subjects completed testing 
sessions at 0, 4, and 8 weeks that included body 
composition assessment, 1RM and muscular 
endurance tests on the bench and leg press, a 
Wingate anaerobic power test, and blood analysis 
to assess anabolic/catabolic status as well as 
markers of health. Results indicated that ZMA 
supplementation nonsigniﬁ  cantly increased 
serum zinc levels by 11–17 % ( p  = 0.12). However, 
no signiﬁ  cant differences were observed between 
groups in anabolic or catabolic hormone status, 
body composition, 1RM bench press and leg 
press, upper or lower body muscular endurance, 
or cycling anaerobic capacity. 
 ZMA supplementation has become a popular 
nutritional practice among resistance-trained ath-
letes. Preliminary research ﬁ  ndings have indi-
cated that training decreases zinc and magnesium 
availability leading to reductions in testosterone 
and strength. Zinc and magnesium supplementa-
tion have been suggested as a means to maintain 
zinc and magnesium status and thereby improve 
training adaptations. However, there is still some 
discrepancy in the literature.   10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

236
10.4     Supplements that Promote 
Recovery 
10.4.1     Glutamine 
 Glutamine is classiﬁ  ed as a nonessential amino 
acid since it can be readily synthesized by various 
tissues such as the skeletal muscles, liver, and adi-
pose tissue [ 82 ]. Glutamine contributes a large 
amount of amino acids to the free pool as dis-
cussed earlier. However, when the need for gluta-
mine is high, the body may not be able to 
synthesize it at a fast enough rate to replenish 
depletion, hence the possible need for supplemen-
tation. In fact, glutamine is the most abundant 
amino acid in the body, representing about 60 % 
of the amino acid pool in muscles. In a healthy 
person, the concentration of glutamine in the 
blood is 3–4 times greater than all other amino 
acids. Research has shown glutamine to contrib-
ute to the prevention of muscle breakdown [ 83 ], 
increase in growth hormone, protein synthesis, 
improved intestinal health, decrease in the risk of 
overtraining, and improved immune system func-
tion. During catabolic conditions in the body, glu-
tamine content is decreased, and during anabolic 
states, glutamine levels are high [ 84 ]. Recent 
reports have shown that plasma glutamine levels 
decrease acutely after single sessions of high-
intensity running [ 85 ] and after more extended 
periods of intensive running training [ 86 ]. 
Glutamine is also believed to play a large role in 
the enhancement of the immune system. Intense 
physical training may have a negative effect on 
the immune system by causing a transient sup-
pression of the entire system. The demands on 
muscle and other organs are so high during intense 
physical training that the immune system may 
suffer from a lack of glutamine that temporarily 
affects its function [ 87 ]. It has been suggested that 
since skeletal muscle is the major tissue involved 
in glutamine production, that skeletal muscle 
must thus play a vital role in the process of gluta-
mine utilization in the immune cells. It has been 
shown that lymphocytes and macrophages utilize 
glutamine as an energy source at a rate similar to 
that of glucose. These cells of the immune system have high levels of glutaminase, which is a key 
enzyme in catabolism of glutamine. High rates of 
glycolysis (using glucose) and glutaminolysis 
(using glutamine) provide powerful supplies of 
energy for these cells. In addition, glutamine pro-
vides nitrogen for the synthesis of nucleotides, 
which are needed for new DNA and RNA during 
cell multiplication of lymphocytes and for mRNA 
synthesis and DNA repair in macrophages. A 
decrease in the blood glutamine concentration 
may reduce the maximum rate of lymphocyte cell 
production. In addition, a decrease in glutamine 
concentration may limit the level of phagocytosis 
and the rate of cytokine production by macro-
phage. Since blood glutamine levels decline after 
heavy exercise, it is possible that exercise-induced 
immunosuppression will be caused in part by a 
glutamine deﬁ  ciency. A study by Rohde investi-
gated the inﬂ  uence of glutamine supplementation 
on exercise- induced immune system changes for 
3 bouts of bicycle ergometer exercise [ 88 ]. Oral 
glutamine supplementation abolished the decrease 
in plasma glutamine concentration postexercise 
without inﬂ  uencing any of the immune system 
parameters. 
 Physiologic improvement in sports only 
occurs during the rest period following hard 
training. This adaptation is in response to maxi-
mal loading of the cardiovascular and muscular 
systems. During recovery periods, these systems 
build to greater levels to compensate for the stress 
that you have applied. Proper nutrition and rest 
are essential in preventing an overtraining effect. 
Individuals suffering from overtraining also are 
more susceptible to disease and infections as a 
result of lowered immunity. One of the results of 
overtraining is that each day the amount of mus-
cle glutamine gets a little lower. Eventually, the 
muscle goes below the critical amount of gluta-
mine needed to sustain an anabolic state, and they 
revert into a long-term catabolic state. This may 
be due to the role of glutamine as a primary 
source of fuel for the cells of the immune system, 
particularly lymphocytes, macrophages, and 
killer cells. Thus, glutamine supplementation 
may enhance performance and adaptation in 
strength and power athletes.  C. Wilborn

237
10.4.2     HMB 
 β-Hydroxy- β-methylbutyric acid, or HMB, is a 
metabolite of the essential amino acid leucine. 
HMB is thought to play a role in the regulation of 
protein breakdown in the body. HMB helps slow 
down proteolysis, which is the natural process of 
breaking down muscle that occurs especially after 
strenuous activity. It appears that HMB supple-
mentation has a protective effect on muscle and 
may help the body get a head start on the recovery 
process by minimizing the amount of protein deg-
radation after exercise. HMB allows the body to 
stay in an anabolic state longer and this allows the 
body to build more muscle. The theory began that 
taking supplemental HMB could possibly slow the 
breakdown of protein in the body, thus increasing 
muscle mass and   strength    . 
 The body synthesizes a small amount of HMB 
from α-ketoisocaproate as a by-product of leucine 
metabolism. Theoretically, increasing availability 
of HMB would minimize protein degradation. In 
support of this theory, a number of animal studies 
have reported that adding HMB to the diet 
enhanced growth rates in pigs [ 89 ], increased 
muscle mass and decreased body fat in steers 
[ 90 ], improved several markers of immune func-
tion in chickens [ 91 ,  92 ], and decreased markers 
of catabolism during training in race horses [ 93 ]. 
Based on these ﬁ  ndings, it has been hypothesized 
that HMB supplementation during training in 
humans may inhibit protein degradation leading 
to greater gains in strength and muscle mass. 
 Several studies have evaluated the effects of 
HMB supplementation on strength and body 
composition alterations during training in 
untrained subjects initiating training and in well- 
trained athletes. Nissen [ 94 ] studied the effects of 
dietary supplementation with the leucine metabo-
lite HMB. HMB signiﬁ  cantly decreased the 
exercise- induced rise in muscle proteolysis as 
measured by urine 3-methylhistidine during 2 
weeks of exercise. Fat-free mass was signiﬁ  -
cantly increased in HMB-supplemented subjects 
compared with the control group. They con-
cluded that supplementation with HMB can 
partly prevent exercise-induced proteolysis and/or muscle damage and result in lar ger gains in muscle 
function associated with resistance training. 
Another study by Knitter [ 95 ] investigated HMB 
supplementation on muscle damage as a result of 
intense endurance exercise. Creatine phosphoki-
nase and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activities 
were measured before and after a prolonged run 
to assess muscle damage. The placebo- 
supplemented group exhibited a signiﬁ  cantly 
greater increase in creatine phosphokinase activ-
ity after a prolonged run than did the HMB- 
supplemented group. In addition, LDH activity 
was signiﬁ  cantly lower with HMB supplementa-
tion compared with the placebo group. These 
ﬁ ndings support the hypothesis that HMB sup-
plementation helps prevent exercise-induced 
muscle damage. Vukovich and coworkers [ 96 ] 
reported that HMB supplementation (3 g/day for 
8 weeks during resistance training) signiﬁ  cantly 
increased muscle mass, reduced fat mass, and 
promoted greater gains in upper and lower 
extremity 1RM strength in a group of elderly 
men and women initiating training. Likewise, 
Panton and colleagues [ 97 ] reported that HMB 
supplementation during 8 weeks of resistance 
training increased functional ability to get up, 
walk, and sit down in a group of elderly subjects. 
More recently, Gallagher and associates [ 98 ] 
evaluated the effects of HMB supplementation 
(0.38 and 0.76 mg/kg/day) during 8 weeks of 
resistance training in previously untrained men. 
The researchers reported that HMB supplementa-
tion promoted signiﬁ  cantly less muscle creatine 
kinase excretion and greater gains in muscle mass 
(in the 0.38 mg/kg/day group only) than subjects 
taking a placebo. Collectively, these ﬁ  ndings sup-
port contentions that HMB supplementation may 
lessen catabolism leading to greater gains in 
strength and muscle mass. Kreider et al. [ 99 ] con-
ducted a study on experienced resistance-trained 
athletes. Athletes were supplemented with HMB 
for 28 days during training. Results revealed that 
although trends were observed, HMB supplemen-
tation did not signiﬁ  cantly affect markers of 
muscle degradation, muscle mass, or strength. 
These ﬁ  ndings suggest that HMB supplementa tion 
does not appear to signiﬁ  cantly affect strength 10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

238
and/or muscle mass in well-trained subjects. 
As with most supplements, there are some con-
ﬂ icting results. However, there does appear to be 
sound scientiﬁ  c rationale that HMB supplemen-
tation may affect catabolism. 
 Previous research has focused on hydroxy-beta-
methylbutyrate, and it has been proven to increase 
lean body mass as well as strength. In the most 
recent years, HMB has been created in a free acid 
form to help increase bioavailability. Pioneering 
research has found that the free acid form of HMB 
has been able to approximately double the plasma 
levels after administration of the supplement 
[ 100 ]. It has also been found that HMB-FA, has 
a 25 % greater uptake in the body, allowing for 
improved utilization. In a 12-week study, Wilson 
investigated the beneﬁ  ts of HMB-FA supple-
mentation on skeletal muscle hypertrophy, body 
composition, strength, stress hormones, and testos-
terone in resistance- trained males [ 101 ]. Subjects 
were prescribed an undulating training period 
for 8 weeks, followed by a 2-week overreaching 
cycle, and ended the study with a 2-week train-
ing volume taper. During the 12 weeks, subjects 
were administered 3 g per day of either HMB-FA 
or a placebo taken in 1 g dosages: 30 min prior 
to working out, before lunch, and prior to sup-
per. Results of the study presented a signiﬁ  cant 
increase in strength variables, with the HMB-FA 
group experiencing a 25 % increase in strength for 
squat, 12 % for bench press, and 16 % for dead-
lift compared to a 5, 3, and 9 % increase, respec-
tively, for the placebo group. The supplementation 
groups also experienced a signiﬁ  cant decrease in 
body fat (−5.4 ± 1.6 kg) when compared to the 
placebo group (−1.7 ± 2.7 kg). Hydroxy-beta- 
methylbutyrate free acid suppressed an eleva-
tion in creatine kinase during the overreaching 
period, leading to musculo-protective beneﬁ  ts of 
HMB-FA supplementation [ 101 ]. 
 In an almost identical study, HMB-FA was 
tested with the addition of adenosine triphosphate. 
Supplementation of ATP would help maintain 
performance as well as increase volume during 
highly fatiguing contractions. When paired with 
the increased speed in muscle regeneration from 
HMB-FA, the potential for an individual to train 
at a higher workload while minimizing the stress and recovery time needed between workouts may 
exist. Lowery and associates tested this supple-
mentation protocol in a triple-blind-manner, 3 g 
of HMB-FA, 400 mg of ATP, and 3 g of 
HMB-FA/400 mg ATP, over the course of 12 
weeks. Strength training followed an 8-week peri-
odized program, leading into a 2-week overreach-
ing cycle, and concluding with a 2-week taper. 
Individuals ingesting HMB-FA + ATP experi-
enced a signiﬁ  cant increase in lean body mass 
8.5 ± 0.08 kg (12.7 %) as well as an increase in 
strength in by 23.5 %. Those taking HMB-FA 
increase lean body mass by 7.4 ± 0.4 kg, subjects 
ingesting ATP increase lean body mass by 
4.4 ± 0.4 kg, and the placebo group experienced a 
2.1 ± 0.5 kg increase. During the overreaching 
cycle, participants who were ingesting HMB-FA 
only had a decrease in strength by .5 %, whereas 
those on the placebo declined in strength by 
−4.5 %. Interestingly, the HMB-FA/ATP subjects 
were not negatively affected by the overreaching 
cycle, but actually gained strength (+1.2 %). The 
conclusion of this study suggests that HMB-FA 
and ATP are capable of increasing strength as well 
as increasing body composition. The combination 
of HMB-FA with ATP can provide a synergistic 
effect of increased lean body mass as well as 
strength [ 102 ]. 
 A majority of research has measured the 
beneﬁ  ts of HMB-FA on strength training, because 
of HMB-FA being a metabolite to leucine the 
trigger for muscle growth. Aerobically, HMB-FA 
could potentially lend its beneﬁ  ts of an increased 
recovery time and attenuating muscle damage 
properties in high interval training. In 2013 a 
study was conducted to test the effects of 
HMB-FA supplementation paired with HIIT and 
its effects on maximal oxygen consumption, ven-
tilatory threshold, respiratory compensation 
point, and time to exhaustion [ 103 ]. Twenty-six 
male and female participants were divided into 
either a placebo + HIIT or HMB-FA + HIIT, with 
an additional control group of eight people. 
Subjects completed 12 HIIT exercises on a cycle 
ergometer. Those not in the control group 
ingested 3 g of either HMB-FA or placebo during 
the study. Results indicated a signiﬁ  cant differ-
ence ( p  = 0.003) in VO 2peak  with HMB-FA having C. Wilborn

239
a greater increase in VO 2peak  values than the con trol 
( p  = 0.001) or the placebo group ( p  = 0.032), 
whereas no difference was found between the 
control group and the placebo + HIIT group 
( p  = 0.09). For both peak power and time to 
exhaustion, there were signiﬁ  cant differences 
between across groups ( p  = 0.013 and  p  = 0.002, 
respectively). While no signiﬁ  cant difference was 
experienced between the HMB-FA and the pla-
cebo + HIIT, both groups had a greater increase 
than the control group for both peak power and 
time to exhaustion. Robinson and Stout found 
that pairing supplementation of HMB-FA with 
HIIT training can lead to increase in VO 2max  per-
formance than HIIT training alone.  
10.4.3     Antioxidants 
 Oxidative stress is the steady-state level of oxida-
tive damage in a cell, tissue, or organ caused by 
free radicals or the reactive oxygen species 
(ROS). Reactive oxygen species, such as free 
radicals and peroxides, represent a class of mol-
ecules that are derived from the metabolism of 
oxygen and exist inherently in all aerobic organ-
isms. Free radicals are simply electrons that are 
no longer attached to atoms. There are many dif-
ferent sources by which the reactive oxygen spe-
cies are generated. Most reactive oxygen species 
come from the endogenous sources as by- 
products of normal and essential metabolic reac-
tions, such as energy generation from 
mitochondria. The level of oxidative stress is 
determined by the balance between the rate at 
which oxidative damage is induced and the rate at 
which it is efﬁ  ciently repaired and removed. Free 
radicals interact with other molecules within 
cells. This can cause oxidative damage to pro-
teins, membranes, and genes. Physical exercise 
induces oxidative stress and tissue damage. 
Although a basal level of reactive oxygen species 
(ROS) is required to drive redox signaling and 
numerous physiologic processes, excess ROS 
during exercise may have adverse implications 
on health and performance. High-intensity resis-
tance training has also been shown to increase 
free radical production. Antioxidant nutrients may be helpful in that regard. Additionally the 
overtraining effect can induce increases in ROS. 
 To combat the effects of oxidative stress, anti-
oxidants can be taken. Antioxidants block the 
process of oxidation by neutralizing free radicals. 
That is why there is a constant need to replenish 
our antioxidant resources. Antioxidants from our 
diet appear to be of great importance in control-
ling damage by free radicals. Each nutrient is 
unique in terms of its structure and antioxidant 
function. 
 Vitamin E is actually a generic term that refers 
to all entities that exhibit biological activity of the 
isomer tocopherol. Alpha-tocopherol, the most 
widely available isomer, has the highest biopo-
tency or strongest effect in the body. Because it is 
fat-soluble, alpha-tocopherol is in a unique posi-
tion to safeguard cell membranes, largely com-
posed of fatty acids, from damage by free radicals. 
Vitamin E is an important intramembrane antioxi-
dant and membrane stabilizer. Vitamin E supple-
mentation has been advocated for athletes in the 
hope of improving performance, minimizing 
exercise-induced muscle damage, and maximiz-
ing recovery. Meydani et al. [ 104 ] reported that 
vitamin E-treated  subjects had a decrease in oxi-
dative stress over 12 days following eccentric 
exercise (downhill running). Cannon et al. [ 105 ] 
concluded that supplementation of vitamin E for 
48 days reduced the amount of creatine kinase 
leakage in young and old men during recovery 
from downhill running bouts. In subsequent stud-
ies, Rokitski et al. [ 106 ] concluded that supple-
mentation of vitamin E for 5 months decreases 
creatine kinase leakage in aerobic cyclists. These 
studies indicate that vitamin E supplementation 
can help reduce muscle damage caused by free 
radical damage. Hartmann et al. [ 107 ] noted that 
DNA damage could occur in white blood cells 
after exercise. These researchers concluded that a 
2,400 mg dose of vitamin E resulted in decreased 
damage to the DNA of white blood cells in exer-
cised individuals. 
 Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, is a 
water-soluble vitamin. As such, it scavenges free 
radicals that are in an aqueous environment inside 
cells. Vitamin C works synergistically with 
vitamin E to destroy free radicals. Vitamin C is 10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

240
used in numerous metabolic processes in the body. 
Theoretically, it could beneﬁ  t exercise perfor-
mance by improving metabolism during exercise. 
Ascorbic acid also may reduce the occurrence of 
upper respiratory tract infections brought about 
by intense training [ 108 ]. Other associations for 
ascorbic acid involve a role in the synthesis of col-
lagen, which is necessary for strong cartilage, ten-
don, and bone. Certain hormones such as 
adrenaline and neurotransmitters need ascorbic 
acid. Ascorbic acid also aids in the absorption of 
iron and helps in the formation of red blood cells 
that carry oxygen to the muscle tissues. 
 Vitamin C does appear control reactive oxidant 
species formed during exercise. If not controlled, 
these species have the ability to react with cell 
membranes and damage them. In 1992, Kaminski 
et al. [ 109 ] examined the relationship between vita-
min C given to 19 subjects for 3 days before exer-
cise and seven after and the muscle damage induced 
by two bouts of eccentric exercise. The authors 
concluded that vitamin C reduced muscle damage 
[ 109 ]. Vitamin C is also important to a host of 
numerous other functions within the body. 
 Vitamins C and E are not the only antioxi-
dants; in fact, vitamin A has antioxidant proper-
ties. Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10 or ubiquinone), 
which is essential to energy production, can also 
protect the body from destructive free radicals. In 
addition, uric acid, a product of DNA metabo-
lism, has become increasingly recognized as an 
important antioxidant. Additionally, substances 
in plants called phytochemicals are being investi-
gated for their antioxidant activity and health- 
promoting potential. 
 In a crossover study to test the beneﬁ  t of 
antioxidant supplementation on oxidative stress 
during exercise, Ackerman et al. [ 110 ] gave 13 
resistance-trained males either a placebo or an 
antioxidant drink before performing a hypertro-
phic training session. Each of the participants 
completed six sets with 10 repetitions at 70 % 
of a predicted 1RM on back squat. After the 
completion of the ﬁ  rst testing session, subjects 
returned for a subsequent testing session to intake 
the other dose of either placebo or supplement. 
During the placebo trial, subjects experienced a 
signiﬁ  cant decrease in concentric mean power. 
Training volume for the antioxidant supplement was signiﬁ  cantly higher (6,746 ± 5.9 W) than the 
placebo group (6,493 ± 17.1 W). Growth hor-
mone was measured after each of the training 
sessions and determined that plasma concen-
trations were signiﬁ  cantly less after consump-
tion of the antioxidant supplement (6.65 ± 1.84 
vs. 16.08 ± 2.78 ng#×2,219;ml −1 ;  p  < 0.05, 
ES’r = 0.89). For this investigation, an ingestion of 
antioxidants was effective in improving contrac tile 
work in the muscle, suggesting that there may be an 
ergogenic beneﬁ  t from antioxidant supplementa-
tion during intensive resistance training. 
 A fat-soluble, vitamin-like substance, CoQ10, 
plays a vital role in ATP production in the mito-
chondria. During oxidative phosphorylation, 
96 % of all ATP produced involves coenzyme 
Q10; with this in mind, supplementation could 
potentially provide ergogenic as well as antioxi-
dant beneﬁ  ts during exercise. Using highly 
trained German athletes, Alf headed a study to 
investigate CoQ10’s inﬂ  uence on the lactate 
threshold [ 111 ]. Over the course of the 6-week 
study, 100 subjects both ingested 300 mg of ubi-
quinol or placebo and performed three (week 0, 
week 3, week 6) maximal power output tests on a 
cycle ergometer to measure lactate threshold. 
After data analysis, the study showed a signiﬁ  -
cant increase in physical performance for both 
groups. Those on the placebo increased 
.30 ± 0.18 W/kg bw or +8.5 % (±5.7) when com-
pared to baseline. The ubiquinol group increased 
performance levels 11 % from 3.70 W/kg bw to 
4.08 W/kg bw. When compared, there was a sig-
niﬁ cant difference in the maximal power pro-
duced between the CoQ10 group versus the 
placebo. Although more research needs to be 
completed to conﬁ  rm these beneﬁ  ts, this study 
shows that ingesting additional ubiquinol has a 
potentially beneﬁ  cial ergogenic effect on exer-
cise performance. 
 To test the effects of Glycine Propionyl-l  - 
Carnitine (GlycoCarn ® ) and three other pre- 
workout nutrient supplements, 19 resistance-trained 
males were recruited for a 6-week supplement 
study [ 112 ]. Over the course of the study, subjects 
participated in six testing sessions 1 week apart, 
where each subject’s body composition, 1RM 
bench press, upper body muscular endurance, 
blood markers of oxidative stress, and skeletal C. Wilborn

241
muscle oxygen saturation was tested. In a cross-
over design, each participant performed the testing 
session under a different supplemental condition 
each time (placebo, GlycoCarn ® , or one of the 
three dietary supplements). At the conclusion of 
the study, none of the supplements were effective 
in improving performance or blood markers.   
10.5     Supplements that Enhance 
Immune Function 
10.5.1     Vitamins and Minerals 
 Immunosuppression in athletes involved in heavy 
training may increase the athlete’s exposure to 
pathogens and provide optimal conditions for ill-
ness and injury. Heavy prolonged exercise is 
associated with numerous hormonal and bio-
chemical changes, many of which potentially 
have detrimental effects on immune function. 
Furthermore, improper nutrition can compound 
the negative inﬂ  uence of heavy exertion on the 
immune system. For optimal nutrition, one must 
consume the adequate amount of nutrients. 
Nutrients are deﬁ  ned as the chemicals taken into 
the body that are used to produce energy, provide 
building blocks for new molecules, or function in 
other chemical reactions. Essential nutrients are 
the nutrients that must come from the food we 
ingest because our body cannot make them or is 
unable to make the required amount of them. 
Other nutrients can be synthesized from the 
ingested nutrients. Athletes are not clinically 
immune deﬁ  cient; it is possible that the combined 
effects of small changes in several immune 
parameters may compromise resistance to minor 
illnesses [ 112 ]. Strategies to prevent immune 
deﬁ ciencies in athletes include avoiding over-
training, providing adequate rest and recovery 
during the training, and ensuring adequate nutri-
tion. In a review by Gleeson [ 70 ], it was con-
cluded that strenuous prolonged exertion and 
heavy training are associated with depressed 
immune function. Furthermore, improper nutri tion 
can compound the negative inﬂ  uence of heavy 
exertion on immune system decrements. 
 Unlike the macronutrients, the body requires 
only small amounts of vitamins and minerals. They do not supply any caloric needs, nor do they 
produce energy. Vitamins are organic compounds 
that have many important roles for normal func-
tioning, growth, and maintenance of the body. 
They also help extract energy from the macronu-
trients. Vitamins are classiﬁ  ed into two categories: 
fat-soluble and water-soluble. Fat-soluble vita-
mins are vitamins A, D, E, and K. The eight B 
vitamins and vitamin C make up the water- soluble 
vitamins. Each vitamin plays a major role in sev-
eral body functions and may cause health prob-
lems if lead to a deﬁ  ciency. Vitamins can be found 
in just about every food, but the way foods are 
stored, processed, and cooked often lead to the 
loss of vitamins [ 113 ]. Minerals are elemental 
atoms, which are not destroyed by heat, light, or 
pH changes. There are seven major minerals 
including sodium, potassium, chloride, calcium, 
phosphorus, magnesium, and iron. Each mineral 
has a speciﬁ  c role, from components of hormones 
and enzymes to structural function. Signiﬁ  cant 
deﬁ cits would lead to severe problems and ill-
nesses. Both plants and animals are good sources 
of minerals; some examples would include whole 
grains, vegetables, milk, meats, and fruit [ 114 ]. 
Although it is impossible to counter the effects of 
all of the factors that contribute to exercise- induced 
immunosuppression, it has been shown to be 
possible to minimize the effects of many factors.  
10.5.2     CLA 
 Conjugated linoleic acids are essential fatty acids 
that have been reported to possess signiﬁ  cant 
health beneﬁ  ts in animals [ 115 ,  116 ]. CLA is a 
naturally occurring fatty acid primarily found in 
beef and dairy fats. Research has indicated that 
CLA may possess a number of health- and 
performance- enhancing beneﬁ  ts. There are some 
data suggesting that CLA supplementation may 
modestly promote fat loss and/or increases in 
lean mass [ 117 – 120 ]. CLA has been marketed as 
a supplement that may promote health as well as 
provide ergogenic value to athletes. Although 
most research on CLA has been conducted on 
animals, there have been a number of recent stud-
ies that provide greater insight on how CLA may 
be beneﬁ  cial to enhance health and performance 10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

242
in humans. CLA feedings in animals have been 
shown to lessen markers of catabolism [ 121 ], 
enhance the immune system [ 122 ,  123 ], and 
increase bone mineral content [ 124 ,  125 ]. A 2005 
[ 126 ] study investigated the effect of dietary 
CLA supplementation on the immune system and 
plasma lipids and glucose of healthy human vol-
unteers. Subjects were given 3 g (6 × 500 mg cap-
sules) of CLA per day for 12 weeks. A 12-week 
washout period followed the intervention period. 
Levels of plasma IgA and IgM were increased, 
while plasma IgE levels were decreased. CLA 
supplementation also decreased the levels of the 
proinﬂ  ammatory cytokines, TNF-alpha, and 
IL-1beta, but increased the levels of the anti- 
inﬂ ammatory cytokine, IL-10. This study showed 
that CLA could beneﬁ  cially affect immune func-
tion in healthy human volunteers. Another study 
[ 127 ] done in animals was undertaken to investi-
gate the growth performance and immune 
responses when supplemented with conjugated 
linoleic acid (CLA). There were no signiﬁ  cant 
differences in growth performance among treat-
ments; however, the results indicated dietary 
CLA supplementation could enhance the immune 
response. 
 CLA has also shown other potential perfor-
mance beneﬁ  ts. CLA supplementation has been 
reported to decrease markers of catabolism. This 
may help athletes tolerate higher training vol-
umes leading to greater gains in strength and/or 
fat-free mass over time. Lowery and coworkers 
[ 118 ] investigated the effects of CLA supplemen-
tation (7.2 g/day) during 6 weeks of resistance 
training in novice body builders. The researchers 
reported that CLA supplementation signiﬁ  cantly 
increased arm mass, body mass, and gains in leg 
press strength. This study provides evidence that 
CLA supplementation during training may affect 
training adaptations. Thom and colleagues [ 117 ] 
evaluated the effects of CLA supplementation 
on body composition alterations in 20 healthy 
male and female subjects. Results revealed no 
signiﬁ  cant changes in body weight. However, 
subjects ingesting CLA experienced a signiﬁ  cant 
decrease in body fat (−4.3 %). Kreider et al. [ 128 ] 
evaluated the effects of ingesting 9.2 g/day of 
CLA for 30 days on body composition, bone 
density, strength, and markers of catabolism in experienced resistance-trained athletes [ 129 , 
 130 ]. Results revealed that CLA supplementation 
did not affect body mass, fat mass, or fat-free 
mass. However, statistical trends were observed, 
indicating that CLA may have lessened markers 
of catabolism, promoted greater gains in strength, 
increased bone density, and enhanced immune 
status. Consequently, results tended to support 
the theoretical value of CLA supplementation. 
 Beuker and colleagues [ 131 ] evaluated the 
effects of CLA supplementation during training 
on body composition, blood lipids, and cycling 
power output. The authors reported that CLA 
supplementation increased the efﬁ  cacy of 
power output as well as decreased plasma cho-
lesterol by approximately 15 %. These ﬁ  ndings 
provide additional support that CLA supple-
mentation may affect training adaptations and 
lipid proﬁ  les. 
 CLA appears to have many beneﬁ  ts for the 
strength athlete. While there are conﬂ  icting results, 
it appears that there is plenty of supporting evi-
dence as to the efﬁ  cacy of CLA supplementation.   
10.6     Supplements that Provide 
Energy and Enhanced 
Workouts 
10.6.1     Carbohydrate 
 Carbohydrate serves as the primary fuel for mod-
erate- to high-intensity exercise. The amount of 
carbohydrate that can be stored in the liver and 
muscle, however, is limited, and it takes time to 
replenish carbohydrate stores. When signiﬁ  cant 
amounts of carbohydrate are depleted, it may be 
difﬁ cult to fully replenish carbohydrate levels 
within 1 day. Consequently, when athletes train 
once or twice per day over a period of days, car-
bohydrate levels may gradually decline, leading 
to fatigue, poor performance, and/or overtraining 
[ 132 ,  133 ]. Therefore, it is imperative that active 
individuals and athletes consume enough carbo-
hydrate in their diet in order to maintain carbohy-
drate availability. In addition, different types of 
carbohydrate may provide some advantages over 
others when consumed prior to, during, and/or 
following exercise. C. Wilborn

243
 There is substantial evidence suggesting that 
the performance of resistance-training exercises 
can elicit a signiﬁ  cant decrement in glycogen 
stores resulting in decreased performance. 
Robergs et al. [ 134 ] demonstrated that subjects 
performing six sets of leg extensions at 35 and 
70 % of 1RM had a decrease in muscle glycogen 
by 38 and 39 %, respectively. In a study by Tesch 
et al. [ 135 ], nine bodybuilders completed ﬁ  ve 
sets each of front squats, back squats, leg presses, 
and leg extensions to fatigue, comprising 30 min 
of exercise. Biopsies of muscle samples were 
obtained from the vastus lateralis before and 
immediately after exercise. Muscle glycogen 
concentration was 26 % lower postexercise. Data 
from Essen-Gustavsson and Tesch [ 136 ] with 
nine bodybuilders performing the same exercise 
regimen revealed a 28 % decrement in muscle 
glycogen content as well as a 30 % decrease in 
muscle triglyceride content. 
 Currently some scientiﬁ  c evidence suggests 
that carbohydrate supplementation prior to and 
during high-volume resistance training results in 
the maintenance of muscle glycogen concentra-
tion, which potentially could result in the mainte-
nance or increase of performance during a 
training bout. One of the most important nutri-
tional strategies to follow exercise is to ingest 
adequate amounts of carbohydrate and protein. 
Research indicates that athletes who ingest 1.5 g/
kg of carbohydrate within 2 h after exercise expe-
rience a greater rate of muscle glycogen resyn-
thesis [ 137 ]. In a study by Haff et al. [ 138 ], six 
resistance-trained men ingested a 250 g carbohy-
drate supplement or placebo during a morning 
training session, rested for 4 h, and then per-
formed a second session consisting of multiple 
sets of light-intensity squats (55 % 1RM) to 
exhaustion. During the second training session, 
the number of sets and repetitions performed was 
markedly higher with the carbohydrate consump-
tion, and subjects were able to exercise for 30 min 
longer. The authors concluded that athletes 
engaging in multiple exercise sessions per day 
would receive a performance advantage with car-
bohydrate ingestion via maintenance of intra-
muscular glycogen stores, due to greater glycogen 
resynthesis during recovery.  As discussed earlier, amino acids have a posi-
tive effect on protein synthesis. It has been 
hypothesized that carbohydrate and amino acid 
supplementation together would result in greater 
gains. Bird et al. [ 139 ] investigated chronic alter-
ation of the acute hormonal response associated 
with liquid carbohydrate (CHO) and/or essential 
amino acid (EAA) ingestion on hormonal and 
muscular adaptations following resistance train-
ing. Thirty-two untrained young men performed 
12 weeks of resistance training twice a week. 
EAA and CHO ingestion attenuated 
3- methylhistidine excretion 48 h following the 
exercise bout. CHO + EAA resulted in a 26 % 
decrease, while PLA displayed a 52 % increase. 
In addition muscle cross-sectional area increased 
across groups for type I, IIa, and IIb ﬁ  bers, with 
CHO + EAA displaying the greatest gains in 
cross-sectional area relative to PLA. These data 
indicate that CHO + EAA ingestion enhances 
muscle anabolism following resistance training 
to a greater extent than either CHO or EAA con-
sumed independently. 
 Based on the current scientiﬁ  c literature, it 
may be advisable for athletes who are performing 
high-volume resistance training to ingest carbo-
hydrate supplements before, during, and immedi-
ately after resistance training.  
10.6.2     Caffeine 
 Caffeine is one of the most widely used stimu-
lants in the world. It occurs naturally in the foods 
and beverages such as coffee, tea, soft drinks, 
chocolate, and cocoa. The average caffeine con-
sumption in the United States is approximately 
200 mg or equivalent to 2 cups of coffee a day. 
Ten percent of the population ingests more than 
1,000 mg per day. Caffeine is also added to sev-
eral over-the-counter medicines such as some 
weight-loss products, pain medicines, and cold 
remedies. Caffeine acts as a stimulant on the 
central nervous system, which causes the heart 
rate and blood pressure to increase. 
 Most of the research with caffeine and exercise 
has indicated an improvement in time to exhaus-
tion and improved work output in comparison to 10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

244
control during aerobic exercise [ 140 – 144 ]. Ivy 
and colleagues [ 144 ] demonstrated an improved 
work output of 7.4 % with individuals ingesting 
caffeine when compared to the control group dur-
ing aerobic cycling bouts. In contrast to several 
other studies that mainly addressed the ergogenic 
effects of caffeine in trained individuals, Graham 
and Spriet [ 143 ] showed that the same ergogenic 
effects of caffeine could be seen on untrained, 
caffeine-naive subjects. Several studies indicate 
that the ergogenic effects of caffeine were best 
seen when regulated for body weight, with the 
recommendation for enhancing endurance per-
formance at 80–85 % VO 2max  in trained athletes at 
9 mg/kg [ 145 – 147 ]. 
 However, caffeine has not had the same results 
in short-term exercise. Doherty et al. [ 148 ] 
assessed the effects of caffeine ingestion on both 
aerobic and anaerobic exercise. The results showed 
that the participants experienced a greater improve-
ment in endurance exercise than that of graded or 
short-term exercise. In a related study also con-
ducted by Doherty [ 149 ], the participants per-
formed a 1-min all-out effort on a cycle ergometer. 
The results suggest that high-intensity cycling per-
formance can be increased via an increase in mean 
power output, following moderate caffeine inges-
tion (5 mg/kg). In a study conducted by Collomp 
and colleagues [ 150 ], the effect of 5 mg/kg caf-
feine ingestion on the Wingate Anaerobic Test was 
assessed. The results showed that caffeine admin-
istration did not signiﬁ  cantly change either maxi-
mal anaerobic capacity or power. However, there 
was a signiﬁ  cant increase in both catecholamine 
and blood lactate levels compared to the placebo 
trials. Another study [ 151 ] was conducted to deter-
mine the effect of caffeine on time to exhaustion 
and on associated metabolic and circulatory mea-
sures. Eight male subjects ingested either caffeine 
(5 mg/kg body weight) or a placebo 1 h prior to 
exercise at 85–90 % of maximum workload. 
Subjects were encouraged to complete three 
30-min intermittent cycling periods at 70 rpm with 
5 min rest between each. The exercise was termi-
nated when the subject failed to complete three 
30-min periods or failed to maintain 70 rpm for at 
least 15 s consecutively. Serum-free fatty acids, 
glycerol, blood glucose, lactate, perceived exer-
tion, heart rate, and O2 cost were measured. The time to exhaustion was signiﬁ  cantly longer during 
the caffeine trial than during the placebo trial. 
Serum-free fatty acid levels were signiﬁ  cantly dif-
ferent between trials. The decline in blood glucose 
levels was signiﬁ  cantly less during the caffeine 
trial than during the placebo trial. There were no 
signiﬁ  cant differences between trials for the other 
measures. It was concluded that caffeine increases 
time to exhaustion when trained subjects cycled 
intermittently at high levels of intensity. 
 While there are conﬂ  icting results on the effects 
of caffeine and performance, there does appear to 
be beneﬁ  t. Not only has caffeine demonstrated its 
capabilities in enhancing performance directly, it 
has the potential to have profound effects indi-
rectly. Like other stimulants, caffeine has been 
advertised and sold as a way to stimulate energy 
expenditure and possibly result in weight by stimu-
lating both lipolysis and energy expenditure [ 152 ]. 
A recent study found that coffee ingestion (200 mg 
of caffeine) resulted in a 7 % increase in energy 
expenditure for 3 h following ingestion [ 153 ]. 
Recent research on the effects of caffeine continues 
to support its role in increasing energy expenditure. 
Another study found that caffeine alone increased 
energy expenditure by 13 % while doubling lipid 
turnover, and these effects suggested to be medi-
ated through the sympathetic nervous system 
[ 152 ]. It is clear that there is great potential for 
caffeine as an ergogenic aid.  
10.6.3     Summary/Practical 
Applications 
 Efﬁ cient sport nutrition is a multifaceted and 
complex endeavor. With a premium being placed 
on performance, the strength athlete needs to use 
every capable tool to perfect his/her performance. 
Pinnacle nutrition has to include a proper balance 
of carbohydrates, proteins, fats, water, vitamins, 
and minerals. However, the strength athlete has 
the beneﬁ  t of nutrition science to optimize train-
ing. While there is no replacement for a balanced 
diet, sport supplements can assist in develop-
ment. There are three supplements that have sub-
stantial scientiﬁ  c support for their effectiveness 
(Table  10.1 ). Creatine supplementation has been 
commonplace in sports for many years. There is C. Wilborn

245
   Table 10.1    Supplements for strength and power athletes   
 Nutrient  Theoretical ergogenic value  Summary of research ﬁ  ndings/
recommendations 
 Creatine  Creatine is a naturally occurring amino acid that is 
derived from the amino acids glycine, arginine, and 
methionine. When creatine enters the muscle cell, it 
accepts a high-energy phosphate and forms 
phosphocreatine (PC). PC is the storage form of 
high-energy phosphate, which is used by the skeletal 
muscle cell to rapidly regenerate adenosine triphosphate 
(ATP) during bouts of maximal muscular contraction  Creatine has been proven to increase 
strength, muscle mass, and sprint 
performance. Research supports the use 
of creatine in increase strength, lean 
body mass, power, sprint performance, 
and recovery. No clinical side effects are 
supported in the literature 
 Protein  Protein is the main component of muscles, organs, and 
hormones. The cells of muscles, tendons, and ligaments 
are maintained, repaired, and enhanced with protein. 
Skeletal muscle growth is possible only when muscle 
protein synthesis exceeds muscle protein breakdown; 
thus, adequate dietary protein is essential  Research has deﬁ  ned a vital role of 
protein development of muscle mass and 
hormonal regulation. Post-workout 
protein supplementation has shown 
increases in protein synthesis and muscle 
mass 
 Amino acids  Amino acids are organic compounds that combine to 
form proteins. When proteins are degraded, amino acids 
are left. The human body requires a number of amino 
acids to facilitate skeletal muscle growth and repair, as 
well as hormonal development that is necessary for 
adaptations to stress  Amino acid supplementation has 
extensive research suggesting that pre- 
and post- workout AA supplementation 
can increase protein synthesis and slow 
degradation 
 β-Alanine  β-Alanine is an amino acid that is not involved in 
structural proteins and functions to combine with 
another amino acid, histidine, to form carnosine. 
Carnosine is believed to be one of the primary 
muscle-buffering substances available in skeletal 
muscle. In theory if carnosine could attenuate the drop 
in pH noted with high-intensity exercise, then one could 
possibly exercise longer  β-Alanine supplementation appears to 
improve submaximal cycle ergometry 
performance and total time to exhaustion. 
There appears to be enough research 
currently to evaluate its effectiveness, and 
it appears that not only does β-alanine 
appear to increase muscle carnosine 
levels, but those changes appear to 
translate into performance beneﬁ  ts 
 Arginine  Arginine is an amino acid that has numerous functions 
in the body. It is used to make compounds in the body 
such as nitric oxide, creatine, glutamate, and proline 
and can be converted to glucose and glycogen if 
needed. In large doses, arginine also stimulates the 
release of hormones growth hormone and prolactin. 
Arginine has also been suggested to assist in wound 
healing, help remove excess ammonia from the body, 
and stimulate immune function  There are some conﬂ  icting results in the 
research regarding arginine. However, 
there is some evidence that arginine 
supplementation can increase strength, 
muscle mass, and growth hormone levels 
 Aromatase 
inhibitors  Aromatase is an enzyme involved in the production of 
estrogen that acts by catalyzing the conversion of 
testosterone (an androgen) to estradiol (an estrogen). 
Aromatase inhibitors are believed to inhibit the 
conversion of testosterone to estrogen, thereby 
increasing endogenous testosterone levels  While aromatase inhibitors as a nutrition 
supplement are relatively new, there is 
research suggesting that AIs can increase 
endogenous levels of testosterone. 
However, there is no evidence that these 
increases in testosterone lead to 
performance beneﬁ  ts 
 Zinc 
magnesium 
aspartate  Zinc and magnesium are two minerals that are used in a 
number of metabolic processes and hormonal 
regulation. Zinc is an essential trace element involved in 
a range of vital biochemical processes and is required 
for the activity of more than 300 enzymes. Magnesium 
is an essential element in human nutrition; it is the 
cofactor in enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism and is 
also involved in several hundred enzymatic reactions in 
which food is metabolized and new products are formed  Preliminary research ﬁ  ndings have 
indicated that training decreases zinc and 
magnesium availability leading to 
reductions in testosterone and strength. 
Zinc and magnesium supplementation 
have been suggested as a means to 
maintain zinc and magnesium status and 
thereby improve training adaptations. 
However, there is still some discrepancy 
in the literature 
(continued)10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

246
Table 10.1  (continued)
 Nutrient  Theoretical ergogenic value  Summary of research ﬁ  ndings/
recommendations 
 Glutamine  Glutamine is the most abundant amino acid in the body, 
representing about 60 % of the amino acid pool in 
muscles. Glutamine serves a variety of functions in the 
body including cell growth, immune function, and 
recovery from stress  Research has shown glutamine to 
contribute to the prevention of muscle 
breakdown, increase in growth hormone, 
protein synthesis, improved intestinal 
health, decrease in the risk of 
overtraining, and improved immune 
system function 
 β-Hydroxy- β-
methylbutyric 
acid  β-Hydroxy- β-methylbutyric acid, or HMB, is a 
metabolite of the essential amino acid leucine. HMB is 
thought to play a role in the regulation of protein 
breakdown in the body. It appears that HMB 
supplementation has a protective effect on muscle and 
may help the body get a head start on the recovery 
process by minimizing the amount of protein 
degradation after exercise  There appear to be sound scientiﬁ  c 
ﬁ ndings that suggest HMB 
supplementation may affect catabolism 
and protein synthesis. However, there is 
not conclusive evidence to suggest that 
HMB supplementation can increase 
strength or muscle mass 
 Antioxidants  Oxidative stress is the steady-state level of oxidative 
damage in a cell, tissue, or organ, caused by free 
radicals or the reactive oxygen species (ROS). Reactive 
oxygen species, such as free radicals and peroxides, 
represent a class of molecules that are derived from the 
metabolism of oxygen that is increased during exercise. 
Antioxidants block the process of oxidation by 
neutralizing free radicals  Research has determined that 
antioxidants are effective at reducing 
free radicals. However, their direct effect 
on the strength and power athlete has yet 
to be determined 
 Vitamins and 
minerals  Heavy prolonged exercise is associated with numerous 
hormonal and biochemical changes, many of which 
potentially have detrimental effects on immune 
function. Vitamins are organic compounds that have 
many important roles for normal functioning, growth, 
and maintenance of the body. They also help extract 
energy from the macronutrients. Each mineral has a 
speciﬁ  c role, from components of hormones and 
enzymes to structural function  It is clear that strength-trained athletes 
have been shown to exhibit deﬁ  ciencies 
in one or more vitamins and minerals. 
Thus, the need to raise levels to within 
normal range is supported in the 
literature. However, it is not clear if 
supplementation in excess of RDI is 
advantageous to the strength athlete 
 CLA  Conjugated linoleic acids are essential fatty acids that 
have been reported to possess signiﬁ  cant health beneﬁ  ts 
in animals. CLA is a naturally occurring fatty acid 
primarily found in beef and dairy fats. Research has 
indicated that CLA may possess a number of health- 
and performance- enhancing beneﬁ  ts  CLA appears to have many beneﬁ  ts for 
the strength athlete. While there are 
conﬂ icting results, it appears that there is 
plenty of supporting evidence as to the 
efﬁ cacy of CLA supplementation on 
enhancing immune performance 
 Carbohydrate  Carbohydrate serves as the primary fuel for moderate- 
to high-intensity exercise. The amount of carbohydrate 
that can be stored in the liver and muscle, however, is 
limited, and it takes time to replenish carbohydrate 
stores. Therefore, it is imperative that active individuals 
and athletes consume enough carbohydrate in their diet 
in order to maintain carbohydrate availability  Based on the current scientiﬁ  c literature, 
it may be advisable for athletes who are 
performing high-volume resistance 
training to ingest carbohydrate 
supplements before, during, and 
immediately after resistance training 
 Caffeine  Caffeine is one of the most widely used stimulants in 
the world. It occurs naturally in the foods and beverages 
such as coffee, tea, soft drinks, chocolate, and cocoa. 
Caffeine acts as a stimulant on the central nervous 
system, which causes the heart rate and blood pressure 
to increase. Caffeine and exercise is believed to cause 
an improvement in time to exhaustion and improved 
work output during aerobic exercise  Caffeine has been shown in the literature 
to have both a positive effect on duration 
of exercise and energy expenditure. 
Research has also shown an increase in 
power output. However, further research 
is needed for conclusive 
recommendations C. Wilborn

247
no other supplement that has the  substantial posi tive 
research that creatine has. Creatine has been 
proven to increase strength, muscle mass, and 
sprint performance. Protein supplementation is 
also a necessary component to all strength pro-
grams. Protein and amino acids are required for 
protein synthesis to remain in a positive nitrogen 
balance. This will ensure the strength athletes 
that they are getting the most out of their work-
outs. More recent research suggests that post- 
workout protein supplementation is a powerful 
booster to the anabolic process. In conjunction 
with protein, post-workout carbohydrate supple-
mentation is needed to replace precious glycogen 
stores that were depleted during the workout. 
Carbohydrates have received a bad rap in recent 
years; however, the informed athlete understands 
the vital importance of carbohydrates in optimiz-
ing performance. These three supplements are 
paramount in the resistance-trained athlete.
   The next tier of supplements might take the 
strength athlete to the next level. β-Alanine is 
the next great supplement. β-Alanine might be 
capable of increased time to exhaustion and 
enhancing the workouts that are necessary to 
impose substantial overload on the strength ath-
lete. HMB has also been shown to be a powerful 
anti- catabolic supplement. Sparing precious 
muscle during rigorous training could prove to be 
the impetus for growth. Coupled with amino acid 
supplementation, HMB could enhance the hyper-
trophic effect. Another supplement that might 
take the strength athlete to the next level is the 
aromatase inhibitors. Aromatase inhibitors have 
been shown in limited studies to increase endog-
enous testosterone. The strength athlete under-
stands the importance of testosterone in boosting 
training adaptations. Caffeine is a commonplace 
additive to the diets of millions of athletes and 
nonathletes alike. However, the stimulatory 
effects and the boost in metabolism that caffeine 
induces mike enhance workouts and assist in the 
creation of lean powerful muscle. 
 Finally, the supplements that enhance recov ery 
or support immunity could prove to be the differ-
ence in peak performance. Due to the rigorous 
nature of the training regimens of strength ath letes, 
endogenous levels of vitamins, minerals, and immune markers have been shown to be low. 
This can be combated by supplementation with 
multivitamins, antioxidants, glutamine, and 
CLA. Bring all of these supplements together, 
couple them with a balanced diet, and a rigorous 
training program and strength and power athletes 
are sure to maximize their genetic potential. 
 Each day new supplements hit the market with 
the promise of enhancing performance, increasing 
muscle mass and optimizing strength. However, 
until valid scientiﬁ  c reports support these claims, 
there is some risk involved.      
   References 
       1.    Balsom PD, Soderlund K, Ekblom B. Creatine in 
humans with special reference to creatine supple-
mentation. Sports Med. 1994;18:268–80.  
    2.    Heymsﬁ  eld SB, Arteaga C, McManus C, Smith J, 
Mofﬁ  tt S. Measurement of muscle mass in humans: 
validity of the 24-hour urinary creatinine method. 
Am J Clin Nutr. 1983;37:478–94.  
    3.    Hirvonen J, Rehunen S, Rusko H, Harkonen M. 
Breakdown of high-energy phosphate compounds 
and lactate accumulation during short supramaximal 
exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1987;
56:253–9.  
    4.    Kreider RB. Species-speciﬁ  c responses to creatine 
supplementation. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp 
Physiol. 2003;285:R725–6.  
    5.    Norman K, Stubler D, Baier P, et al. Effects of cre-
atine supplementation on nutritional status, muscle 
function and quality of life in patients with colorec-
tal cancer–a double blind randomised controlled 
trial. Clin Nutr. 2006;25:596–605.  
    6.    Greenwood M, Kreider RB, Greenwood L, Byars 
A. Cramping and injury incidence in collegiate foot-
ball players are reduced by creatine supplementa-
tion. J Athl Train. 2003;38:216–9.  
   7.    Kreider RB. Effects of creatine supplementation on 
performance and training adaptations. Mol Cell 
Biochem. 2003;244:89–94.  
   8.    Kreider RB, Melton C, Rasmussen CJ, et al. Long- 
term creatine supplementation does not signiﬁ  cantly 
affect clinical markers of health in athletes. Mol Cell 
Biochem. 2003;244:95–104.  
   9.    Stout J, Eckerson J, Ebersole K, et al. Effect of 
creatine loading on neuromuscular fatigue thresh old. 
J Appl Physiol. 2000;88:109–12.  
     10.    V olek JS, Kraemer WJ, Bush JA, et al. Creatine sup-
plementation enhances muscular performance during 
high-intensity resistance exercise. J Am Diet Assoc. 
1997;97:765–70.  
    11.    Peeters B, Lantz C, Mayhew J. Effects of oral cre-
atine monohydrate and creatine phosphate supple-10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

248
mentation on maximal strength indices, body 
composition, and blood pressure. J Strength Cond 
Res. 1999;13:3–9.  
    12.    Eckerson JM, Stout JR, Moore GA, Stone NJ, 
Nishimura K, Tamura K. Effect of two and ﬁ  ve days 
of creatine loading on anaerobic working capacity in 
women. J Strength Cond Res. 2004;18:168–73.  
    13.    Kreider RB, Ferreira M, Wilson M, et al. Effects of 
creatine supplementation on body composition, 
strength, and sprint performance. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 1998;30:73–82.  
     14.    Claudino J, Mezenico B, Amaral S, Zanetti V , 
Benatti F, Roschel H, Gualano B, Amadio A, Serrao 
J. Creatine monohydrate supplementation on lower- 
limb muscle power in Brazilian elite soccer players. 
J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2014;11:32.  
     15.    De Salles Painelli V , Alves V , Ugrinowitsch C, 
Benatti F, Artioli G, Lancha A, Gualano B, Roschel 
H. Creatine supplementation prevents acute strength 
loss induced by concurrent exercise. The. J Appl 
Physiol. 2014;114(8):1749–55.  
    16.    Antonio J, Ciccone V . The effects of pre- versus 
post-workout supplementation of creatine on body 
composition and strength. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2013;10:36.  
    17.    Barber J, McDermott A, McGaughey K, Olmstead J, 
Hagobian T. Effects of combined creatine and 
sodium bicarbonate supplementation on repeated 
sprint performance in trained men. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2013;27(1):252–8.  
    18.    Phillips SM, Parise G, Roy BD, Tipton KD, Wolfe 
RR, Tamopolsky MA. Resistance-training-induced 
adaptations in skeletal muscle protein turnover in the 
fed state. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 2002;80:
1045–53.  
    19.    Phillips SM, Tipton KD, Ferrando AA, Wolfe 
RR. Resistance training reduces the acute exercise- 
induced increase in muscle protein turnover. Am J 
Physiol. 1999;276:E118–24.  
    20.    Biolo G, Maggi SP, Williams BD, Tipton KD, Wolfe 
RR. Increased rates of muscle protein turnover and 
amino acid transport after resistance exercise in 
humans. Am J Physiol. 1995;268:E514–20.  
    21.    Biolo G, Tipton KD, Klein S, Wolfe RR. An abun-
dant supply of amino acids enhances the metabolic 
effect of exercise on muscle protein. Am J Physiol. 
1997;273:E122–9.  
    22.    Tipton KD, Ferrando AA, Phillips SM, Doyle Jr D, 
Wolfe RR. Postexercise net protein synthesis in 
human muscle from orally administered amino 
acids. Am J Physiol. 1999;276:E628–34.  
    23.    Esmarck B, Andersen JL, Olsen S, Richter EA, 
Mizuno M, Kjaer M. Timing of postexercise protein 
intake is important for muscle hypertrophy with 
resistance training in elderly humans. J Physiol. 
2001;535:301–11.  
    24.    Tipton KD, Elliott TA, Cree MG, Wolf SE, Sanford 
AP, Wolfe RR. Ingestion of casein and whey proteins 
results in muscle anabolism after resistance exercise. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2004;36:2073–81.      25.    Rennie MJ, Wackerhage H, Spangenburg EE, Booth 
FW. Control of the size of the human muscle mass. 
Annu Rev Physiol. 2004;66:799–828.  
    26.    Kerksick C, Leutholtz B. Nutrient administration 
and resistance training. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2006;
2:57–60.  
     27.    Cooke M, Rybalka E, Stathis C, Cribb P, Hayes 
A. Whey protein isolate attenuates strength decline 
after eccentrically-induced muscle damage in 
healthy individuals. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2010;7:30.  
    28.    Wilborn C, Taylor L, Outlaw J, Williams L, 
Campbell B, Foster C, Smith-Ryan A, Urbina S, 
Hayward S. The effects of pre- and post- exercise 
whey vs. casein protein consumption on body com-
position and performance measures in collegiate 
female athletes. J Sports Sci Med. 2013;12(1):74–9.  
     29.    Antonio J, Peacock C, Ellerbroek A, Fromhoff B, 
Silver T. The effects of consuming a high protein 
diet (4.4 g/kg/d) on body composition in resistance- 
trained individuals. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2014;11:19.  
    30.    Harris R, Dunnett M, Greenhaf P. Carnosine and 
Taurine contents in individual ﬁ  bres of human vastus 
lateralis muscle. J Sports Sci. 1998;16:639–43.  
    31.    Hill CA, Harris RC, Kim HJ, et al. Inﬂ  uence of beta- 
alanine supplementation on skeletal muscle carno-
sine concentrations and high intensity cycling 
capacity. Amino Acids. 2007;32:225–33.  
     32.    Stout JR, Cramer JT, Mielke M, O'Kroy J, Torok 
DJ, Zoeller RF. Effects of twenty-eight days of beta- 
alanine and creatine monohydrate supplementation 
on the physical working capacity at neuromuscular 
fatigue threshold. J Strength Cond Res. 2006;20:
928–31.  
    33.    Stout JR, Cramer JT, Zoeller RF, et al. Effects of 
beta-alanine supplementation on the onset of neuro-
muscular fatigue and ventilatory threshold in 
women. Amino Acids. 2007;32:381–6.  
    34.    Hoffman J, Ratamess N, Kang J, Mangine G, 
Faigenbaum A, Stout J. Effect of creatine and beta- 
alanine supplementation on performance and endo-
crine responses in strength/power athletes. Int J 
Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 2006;16:430–46.  
     35.    Smith-Ryan A, Fukuda D, Stout J, Kendall K. High- 
velocity intermittent running: effects of beta-alanine 
supplementation. J Strength Cond Res. 2012;26(10):
2798–805.  
     36.    Walter A, Smith-Ryan A, Kendall K, Stout J, Cramer 
J. Six weeks of high-intensity interval training with 
and without B-alanine supplementation for improv-
ing cardiovascular ﬁ  tness in women. J Strength 
Cond Res. 2010;24(5):1199–207.  
     37.    Mero A, Hirvonen P, Saarela J, Hulmi J, Hoffman J, 
Stout J. Effects of sodium bicarbonate and beta- 
alanine supplementation on maximal spring swim-
ming. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2013;10:52.  
    38.    Ducker K, Dawson B, Willman K. Effects of beta- 
alanine and sodium bicarbonate supplementation on 
repeated spring performance. J Strength Cond Res. 
2013;27(12):3450–60.  C. Wilborn

249
    39.    de Salles Painelli V , Saunders B, Sale C, Harris R, 
Solis M, Roschel H, Gualano B, Artioli G, Lancha 
A. Inﬂ  uence of training status on high-intensity inter-
mittent performance in response to beta-alanine sup-
plementation. Amino Acids. 2014;46(5):1207–15.  
     40.    Campbell B, Roberts M, Kerksick C, et al. 
Pharmacokinetics, safety, and effects on exercise 
performance of l-arginine alpha-ketoglutarate in 
trained adult men. Nutrition. 2006;22:872–81.  
    41.    Elam RP, Hardin DH, Sutton RA, Hagen L. Effects 
of arginine and ornithine on strength, lean body mass 
and urinary hydroxyproline in adult males. J Sports 
Med Phys Fitness. 1989;29:52–6.  
    42.    Hembree WC, Ross GT. Arginine infusion and 
growth-hormone secretion. Lancet. 1969;1:52.  
   43.    Merimee TJ, Rabinowitz D, Fineberg S. Arginine- 
initiated release of human growth hormone. Factors 
modifying the response in normal man. N Engl J Med. 
1969;280:1434–8.  
    44.    Merimee TJ, Rabinowitz D, Riggs L, Burgess JA, 
Rimoin DL, McKusick V A. Plasma growth hormone 
after arginine infusion. Clinical experiences. N Engl 
J Med. 1967;276:434–9.  
    45.    Walberg-Rankin J, Hawkins C. The effect of oral 
arginine during energy restriction in male weight 
trainers. J Strength Cond Res. 1994;8:170–7.  
    46.    Besset A, Bonardet A, Rondouin G, Descomps B, 
Passouant P. Increase in sleep related GH and Prl 
secretion after chronic arginine aspartate adminis-
tration in man. Acta Endocrinol (Copenh). 1982;
99:18–23.  
    47.    Marcell T, Taaffe D, Hawkins S. Oral arginine does 
not stimulate basal or augment exercise-induced GH 
secretion in either young or old adults. J Gerontol A 
Biol Sci Med Sci. 1999;54:395–9.  
    48.    Gater DR, Gater DA, Uribe JM, Bunt JC. Effects 
of arginine/lysine supplementation and resistance 
training on glucose tolerance. J Appl Physiol. 1992;
72:1279–84.  
    49.    Bhasin S, Bremner WJ. Clinical review 85: emerg-
ing issues in androgen replacement therapy. J Clin 
Endocrinol Metab. 1997;82:3–8.  
   50.    Bhasin S, Buckwalter JG. Testosterone supplemen-
tation in older men: a rational idea whose time has 
not yet come. J Androl. 2001;22:718–31.  
   51.    Bhasin S, Storer TW, Berman N, et al. Testosterone 
replacement increases fat-free mass and muscle size 
in hypogonadal men. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 
1997;82:407–13.  
    52.    Bhasin S, Woodhouse L, Casaburi R, et al. 
Testosterone dose–response relationships in healthy 
young men. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2001;
281:E1172–81.  
    53.    Sinha-Hikim I, Artaza J, Woodhouse L, et al. 
Testosterone-induced increase in muscle size in 
healthy young men is associated with muscle ﬁ  ber 
hypertrophy. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 
2002;283:E154–64.  
    54.    Sinha-Hikim I, Roth SM, Lee MI, Bhasin S. 
Testosterone-induced muscle hypertrophy is associ-ated with an increase in satellite cell number in 
healthy, young men. Am J Physiol Endocrinol 
Metab. 2003;285:E197–205.  
    55.    Brodie A, Inkster S, Yue W. Aromatase expression in 
the human male. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2001;
178:23–8.  
    56.   Zmuda J, Bausserman L, Maceroni D, Thompson 
P. The effect of supraphysiologic doses of testoster-
one on fasting total homocysteine levels in normal 
men. Atherosclerosis. 1997;130.  
    57.    Leder BZ, Rohrer JL, Rubin SD, Gallo J, Longcope 
C. Effects of aromatase inhibition in elderly men 
with low or borderline-low serum testosterone 
levels. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2004;89:
1174–80.  
    58.    Mauras N, Lima J, Patel D, et al. Pharmacokinetics 
and dose ﬁ  nding of a potent aromatase inhibitor, 
aromasin (exemestane), in young males. J Clin 
Endocrinol Metab. 2003;88:5951–6.  
    59.    Mauras N, O'Brien KO, Klein KO, Hayes V . Estrogen 
suppression in males: metabolic effects. J Clin 
Endocrinol Metab. 2000;85:2370–7.  
    60.   Inclendon T. The chronic effects of androst-4-ene- 
3,6,17-trione on endocrine responses in resistance- 
trained men. Unpublished Observation; 2003.  
    61.   Numazawa M, Tsuji M, Mutsumi A. Studies on aro-
matase inhibition with 4-androstene-3,6,17-trione: 
its 3 beta-reduction and time-dependent irreversible 
binding to aromatase with human placental micro-
somes. J Steroid Biochem. 1987;28.  
    62.   Numazawa M, Mutsumi A, Tachibana M. 
Mechanism for aromatase inactivation by a suicide 
substrate, androst-4-ene-3,6,17-trione. The 4 beta, 5 
beta-epoxy-19-oxo derivative as a reactive electro-
phile irreversibly binding to the active site. Biochem 
Pharmacol. 1996;52.  
    63.    Willoughby DS, Wilborn C, Taylor L, Campbell 
W. Eight weeks of aromatase inhibition using the 
nutritional supplement Novedex XT: effects in young, 
eugonadal men. Int J Sports Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2007;17:92–108.  
     64.   Lukasi H. Micronutrients (magnesium, zinc, and 
copper): are mineral supplements needed for ath letes? 
Int J Sport Nutr. 1995;5.  
     65.    Singh A, Failla ML, Deuster PA. Exercise-induced 
changes in immune function: effects of zinc supple-
mentation. J Appl Physiol. 1994;76:2298–303.  
      66.    Singh A, Smoak BL, Patterson KY , LeMay LG, 
Veillon C, Deuster PA. Biochemical indices of 
selected trace minerals in men: effect of stress. Am J 
Clin Nutr. 1991;53:126–31.  
    67.    Gleeson M, Lancaster GI, Bishop NC. Nutritional 
strategies to minimise exercise-induced immunosup-
pression in athletes. Can J Appl Physiol. 2001;
26(Suppl):S23–35.  
   68.    Nieman DC. Nutrition, exercise, and immune sys-
tem function. Clin Sports Med. 1999;18:537–48.  
     69.    Nieman DC, Pedersen BK. Exercise and immune 
function. Recent developments. Sports Med. 1999;
27:73–80.  10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

250
     70.    Gleeson M, Nieman DC, Pedersen BK. Exercise, 
nutrition and immune function. J Sports Sci. 2004;
22:115–25.  
    71.    Shephard RJ, Shek PN. Immunological hazards 
from nutritional imbalance in athletes. Exerc 
Immunol Rev. 1998;4:22–48.  
    72.    Golf SW, Happel O, Graef V , Seim KE. Plasma 
aldosterone, cortisol and electrolyte concentrations in 
physical exercise after magnesium supplementation. 
J Clin Chem Clin Biochem. 1984;22:717–21.  
    73.    Golf SW, Bender S, Gruttner J. On the signiﬁ  cance 
of magnesium in extreme physical stress. Cardiovasc 
Drugs Ther. 1998;12 Suppl 2:197–202.  
     74.    Brilla L, Haley T. Effect of magnesium supplemen-
tation on strength training in humans. J Am Coll 
Nutr. 1992;11:326–9.  
    75.    Newhouse IJ, Finstad EW. The effects of magnesium 
supplementation on exercise performance. Clin J 
Sport Med. 2000;10:195–200.  
     76.    Brilla L, Conte V . Effects of a novel zinc-magnesium 
formulation on hormones and strength. J Exerc 
Physiol Online. 2000;3:26–36.  
    77.    Prasad AS, Mantzoros CS, Beck FW, Hess JW, 
Brewer GJ. Zinc status and serum testosterone levels 
of healthy adults. Nutrition. 1996;12:344–8.  
    78.    Cordova A, Navas FJ. Effect of training on zinc 
metabolism: changes in serum and sweat zinc con-
centrations in sportsmen. Ann Nutr Metab. 1998;
42:274–82.  
   79.    Khaled S, Brun JF, Micallel JP, et al. Serum zinc and 
blood rheology in sportsmen (football players). Clin 
Hemorheol Microcirc. 1997;17:47–58.  
    80.    Konig D, Weinstock C, Keul J, Northoff H, Berg A. 
Zinc, iron, and magnesium status in athletes—inﬂ  u-
ence on the regulation of exercise-induced stress and 
immune function. Exerc Immunol Rev. 1998;4:
2–21.  
    81.    Wilborn C, Kerksick C, Campbell B, et al. Effects of 
zinc magnesium aspartate (ZMA) supplementation on 
training adaptations and markers of anabolism and 
catabolism. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2004;1:12–20.  
    82.    Newsholme P, Procopio J, Lima MM, Pithon-Curi 
TC, Curi R. Glutamine and glutamate–their central 
role in cell metabolism and function. Cell Biochem 
Funct. 2003;21:1–9.  
    83.    Candow DG, Chilibeck PD, Burke DG, Davison KS, 
Smith-Palmer T. Effect of glutamine supplementa-
tion combined with resistance training in young 
adults. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2001;86:142–9.  
    84.    Furst P. Intracellular muscle free amino acids - their 
measurement and function. Nutr Soc. 1983;45:451–62.  
    85.    Parry-Billings M, Budgett R, Koutedakis Y , et al. 
Plasma amino acid concentrations in the overtrain ing 
syndrome: possible effects on the immune system. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1992;24:1353–8.  
    86.    Keast D, Arstein D, Harper W, Fry RW, Morton 
AR. Depression of plasma glutamine concentration 
after exercise stress and its possible inﬂ  uence on the 
immune system. Med J Aust. 1995;162:15–8.      87.    Newsholme EA. Biochemical mechanisms to 
explain immunosuppression in well-trained and 
overtrained athletes. Int J Sports Med. 1994;15 
Suppl 3:S142–7.  
    88.    Rohde T, MacLean DA, Pedersen BK. Effect of 
glutamine supplementation on changes in the 
immune system induced by repeated exercise. Med 
Sci Sports Exerc. 1998;30:856–62.  
    89.    Nissen S, Faidley TD, Zimmerman DR, Izard R, 
Fisher CT. Colostral milk fat percentage and pig per-
formance are enhanced by feeding the leucine 
metabolite beta-hydroxy-beta-methyl butyrate to 
sows. J Anim Sci. 1994;72:2331–7.  
    90.    Van Koevering MT, Dolezal HG, Gill DR, et al. 
Effects of beta-hydroxy-beta-methyl butyrate on 
performance and carcass quality of feedlot steers. 
J Anim Sci. 1994;72:1927–35.  
    91.    Peterson AL, Qureshi MA, Ferket PR, Fuller Jr JC. 
Enhancement of cellular and humoral immunity in 
young broilers by the dietary supplementation of 
beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate. Immunopharmacol 
Immunotoxicol. 1999;21:307–30.  
    92.    Peterson AL, Qureshi MA, Ferket PR, Fuller Jr 
JC. In vitro exposure with beta-hydroxy-beta- 
methylbutyrate enhances chicken macrophage 
growth and function. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 
1999;67:67–78.  
    93.    Miller P, Sandberg L, Fuller JC. The effect of inten-
sive training and B-hydroxy-B-methylbutyrate 
(HMB) on the physiological response to exercise in 
horses. FASEB J. 1997;11:A1683.  
    94.    Nissen S, Sharp R, Ray M. Effect of leucine metabo-
lite beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate on muscle 
metabolism during resistance exercise testing. J Am 
Physiol. 1996;81:2095–104.  
    95.    Knitter AE, Panton L, Rathmacher JA, Petersen A, 
Sharp R. Effects of beta-hydroxy-beta- 
methylbutyrate on muscle damage after a prolonged 
run. J Appl Physiol. 2000;89:1340–4.  
    96.   Vukovich M, et al. The effect of dietary B-hydroxy- 
B-methylbutyrate (HMB) on strength gains and 
body composition. FASEB J. 1997;11.  
    97.   Panton L, et al. Effect of B-hydroxy-B- 
methylbutyrate and resistance training on strength 
and functional ability in the elderly. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 1998;30.  
    98.   Gallagher P, et al. B-hydroxy-B-methylbutyrate: 
supplementation during resistance-training. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 1999;31.  
    99.    Kreider RB, Ferreira M, Wilson M, Almada AL. 
Effects of calcium beta-hydroxy-beta- methylbutyrate 
(HMB) supplementation during resistance-training 
on markers of catabolism, body composition and 
strength. Int J Sports Med. 1999;20:503–9.  
    100.    Fuller J, Sharp R, Angus H, Baier S, Rathmarcher 
J. Free acid gel form of beta-hydroxy-beta- 
methylbutyrate (HMB) improves HMB clearance 
from plasma in human subjects compared with the 
calcium HMB salt. Br J Nutr. 2011;105:367–72.  C. Wilborn

251
     101.    Wilson J, Lowery R, Joy J, Anderson J, Wilson S, 
Stout J, Duncan N, Fuller J, Baier S, Naimo M, 
Rathmacher J. The effects of 12 weeks of beta-
hydroxy- beta-methylbutyrate free acid on muscle 
mass, strength, and power in resistance trained indi-
viduals: a randomized, double blind, placebo- 
controlled study. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2014;
114(6):1217–27.  
    102.    Lowery R, Joy J, Ratchmacher J, Baier S, Fuller J, 
Jager R, Wilson S, Wilson J. Effects of 12 weeks of 
beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate free acid, adenos-
ine triphosphate, or a combination on mass, strength, 
and power in resistance trained individuals. J Int Soc 
Sports Nutr. 2013;10 Suppl 1:17.  
    103.    Robinson E, Stout J, Miramonit A, Fukuda D, Wang 
R, Townsend J, Megnine G, Fragala M, Hoffman J. 
High-intensity interval training and B-hydroxy-B- 
methylbutyric free acid improves aerobic power and 
metabolic thresholds. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2014;
11:16.  
    104.    Meydani M, Evans WJ, Handelman G, et al. 
Protective effect of vitamin E on exercise-induced 
oxidative damage in young and older adults. Am J 
Physiol. 1993;264:R992–8.  
    105.    Cannon JG, Meydani SN, Fielding RA, et al. Acute 
phase response in exercise. II. Associations between 
vitamin E, cytokines, and muscle proteolysis. Am J 
Physiol. 1991;260:R1235–40.  
    106.    Rokitzki L, Logemann E, Sagredos AN, Murphy M, 
Wetzel-Roth W, Keul J. Lipid peroxidation and anti-
oxidative vitamins under extreme endurance stress. 
Acta Physiol Scand. 1994;151:149–58.  
    107.    Hartmann A, Niess AM, Grunert-Fuchs M, Poch B, 
Speit G. Vitamin E prevents exercise-induced DNA 
damage. Mutat Res. 1995;346:195–202.  
    108.    Gerster H. The role of vitamin C in athletic perfor-
mance. J Am Coll Nutr. 1989;8:636–43.  
     109.    Kaminski M, Boal R. An effect of ascorbic acid on 
delayed-onset muscle soreness. Pain. 1992;50:317–21.  
    110.    Ackerman J, Clifford T, McNaughton L, Bentley 
D. The effect of an acute antioxidant supplementa-
tion compared with placebo on performance and 
hormonal response during a high volume resistance 
training session. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2014;11:10.  
    111.    Alf D, Schmidt M, Siebrecht S. Ubiquinol supple-
mentation enhances peak power production in 
trained athletes: a double-blind, placebo controlled 
study. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2013;10:24.  
     112.    Bloomer R, Farney T, Trepanowski J, McCarthy C, 
Canale R, Schilling B. Comparison of pre-workout 
nitric oxide stimulating dietary supplements on skel-
etal muscle oxygen saturation, blood nitrate/nitrite, 
lipid perioxidation, and upper body exercise perfor-
mance in resistance trained men. J Int Soc Sports 
Nutr. 2010;7:16.  
    113.    Mackinnon LT. Chronic exercise training effects on 
immune function. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2000;32:
S369–76.  
    114.   Insel PM, Turner RE, Ross D. Discovery Nutrition. 
MA: Jones & Bartlett Publishers Learning; 2006.      115.    Pariza MW, Park Y , Cook ME. Conjugated linoleic 
acid and the control of cancer and obesity. Toxicol 
Sci. 1999;52:107–10.  
    116.    MacDonald HB. Conjugated linoleic acid and dis ease 
prevention: a review of current knowledge. J Am 
Coll Nutr. 2000;19:111S–8.  
     117.   Thom E. A pilot study with the aim of studying the 
efﬁ cacy and tolerability of Tonalin CLA on the body 
composition in humans. Technical Report. Medstat 
Research Limited, Lillestram, Norway. July, 1997.  
    118.    Lowery LM, Appicelli PA PWRL. Conjugated 
linoleic acid enhances muscle size and strength 
gains in novice bodybuilders. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
1998;30:S182.  
   119.    Riserus U, Berglund L, Vessby B. Conjugated lin-
oleic acid (CLA) reduced abdominal adipose tissue 
in obese middle-aged men with signs of the meta-
bolic syndrome: a randomised controlled trial. Int J 
Obes Relat Metab Disord. 2001;25:1129–35.  
    120.    Blankson H, Stakkestad JA, Fagertun H, Thom E, 
Wadstein J, Gudmundsen O. Conjugated linoleic 
acid reduces body fat mass in overweight and obese 
humans. J Nutr. 2000;130:2943–8.  
    121.    Miller CC, Park Y , Pariza MW, Cook ME. Feeding 
conjugated linoleic acid to animals partially over-
comes catabolic responses due to endotoxin injec-
tion. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 
1994;198:1107–12.  
    122.    Chew BP, et al. Effects of conjugated dienoic deriva-
tives of linoleic acid and beta-carotene in modulating 
lymphocyte and macrophage function. Anticancer 
Res. 1999;17:1099–106.  
    123.    Wong MW, Chew BP, Wong TS, Hosick HL, 
Boylston TD, Shultz TD. Effects of dietary conju-
gated linoleic acid on lymphocyte function and 
growth of mammary tumors in mice. Anticancer 
Res. 1997;17:987–93.  
    124.    Li Y , Watkins BA. Conjugated linoleic acids alter 
bone fatty acid composition and reduce ex vivo pros-
taglandin E2 biosynthesis in rats fed n-6 or n-3 fatty 
acids. Lipids. 1998;33:417–25.  
    125.    Watkins BA, Shen CL, McMurtry JP, et al. Dietary 
lipids modulate bone prostaglandin E2 production, 
insulin-like growth factor-I concentration and for-
mation rate in chicks. J Nutr. 1997;127:1084–91.  
    126.    Song HJ, Grant I, Rotondo D, et al. Effect of CLA 
supplementation on immune function in young 
healthy volunteers. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2005;59:
508–17.  
    127.    Zhang H, Guo Y , Yuan J. Conjugated linoleic acid 
enhanced the immune function in broiler chicks. Br 
J Nutr. 2005;94:746–52.  
    128.    Kreider RB, Ferreira MP, Greenwood M, Wilson M, 
Almada AL. Effects of conjugated linoleic acid sup-
plementation during resistance training on body 
composition, bone density, strength, and selected 
hematological markers. J Strength Cond Res. 
2002;16:325–34.  
    129.   Ferreira IM, et al. Effects of conjugated linoleic acid 
supplementation during resistance training on body 10 Nutritional Supplements for Strength and Power Athletes

252
composition and strength. J Strength Cond Res. 
1997;11.  
    130.   Kreider R, et al. Effects of conjugated linoleic acid 
(CLA) supplementation during resistance-training 
on bone mineral content, bone mineral density, and 
markers of immune stress. FASEB J. 1998;12.  
    131.    Beuker F, Haak H, Schwietz H. CLA and body styl ing. 
Symposium: Vitamine und Zusatzstoffe: Jena (Thhr). 
1999;1999:229–37.  
    132.    Berning JR. Energy intake, diet, and muscle wasting. 
In: Kreider RB, Fry AC, O'Toole ML, editors. 
Overtraining in sport. Champaign: Human Kinetics; 
1998. p. 275–88.  
    133.    Sherman WM, Jacobs KA, Leenders N. Carbohydrate 
metabolism during endurance exercise. In: Kreider 
RB, Fry AC, O'Toole ML, editors. Overtraining in 
sport. Champaign: Human Kinetics; 1998. 
p. 289–308.  
    134.    Robergs RA, Pearson DR, Costill DL, et al. Muscle 
glycogenolysis during differing intensities of 
weight-resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1991;70:
1700–6.  
    135.    Tesch PA, Colliander EB, Kaiser P. Muscle metabo-
lism during intense, heavy-resistance exercise. Eur J 
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1986;55:362–6.  
    136.    Essen-Gustavsson B, Tesch PA. Glycogen and tri-
glyceride utilization in relation to muscle metabolic 
characteristics in men performing heavy-resistance 
exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 
1990;61:5–10.  
    137.    Kreider RB. Dietary supplements and the promotion 
of muscle growth with resistance exercise. Sports 
Med. 1999;27:97–110.  
    138.    Haff GG, Lehmkuhl MJ, McCoy LB, Stone MH. 
Carbohydrate supplementation and resistance train-
ing. J Strength Cond Res. 2003;17:187–96.  
    139.    Bird SP, Tarpenning KM, Marino FE. Independent 
and combined effects of liquid carbohydrate/essen-
tial amino acid ingestion on hormonal and muscular 
adaptations following resistance training in untrained 
men. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2006;97:225–38.  
    140.    Clarkson PM. Nutritional ergogenic aids: caffeine. 
Int J Sport Nutr. 1993;3:103–11.     141.    Armstrong LE. Caffeine, body ﬂ  uid-electrolyte bal-
ance, and exercise performance. Int J Sports Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2002;12:189–206.  
   142.    Costill DL, Dalsky GP, Fink WJ. Effects of caffeine 
ingestion on metabolism and exercise performance. 
Med Sci Sports. 1978;10:155–8.  
    143.    Graham TE, Spriet LL. Performance and metabolic 
responses to a high caffeine dose during prolonged 
exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1991;71:2292–8.  
     144.    Ivy JL, Costill DL, Fink WJ, Lower RW. Inﬂ  uence 
of caffeine and carbohydrate feedings on endurance 
performance. Med Sci Sports. 1979;11:6–11.  
    145.    Powers SK, Dodd S. Caffeine and endurance perfor-
mance. Sports Med. 1985;2:165–74.  
   146.    Falk B, Burstein R, Rosenblum J, Shapiro Y , Zylber- 
Katz E, Bashan N. Effects of caffeine ingestion on 
body ﬂ  uid balance and thermoregulation during exer-
cise. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 1990;68:889–92.  
    147.    Dodd SL, Herb RA, Powers SK. Caffeine and 
 exercise performance. An update. Sports Med. 1993;
15:14–23.  
    148.    Doherty M, Smith PM. Effects of caffeine ingestion 
on rating of perceived exertion during and after exer-
cise: a meta-analysis. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 
2005;15:69–78.  
    149.    Doherty M, Smith P, Hughes M, Davison R. Caffeine 
lowers perceptual response and increases power out-
put during high-intensity cycling. J Sports Sci. 
2004;22:637–43.  
    150.    Collomp K, Ahmaidi S, Audran M, Chanal JL, 
Prefaut C. Effects of caffeine ingestion on perfor-
mance and anaerobic metabolism during the Wingate 
Test. Int J Sports Med. 1991;12:439–43.  
    151.    Trice I, Haymes EM. Effects of caffeine ingestion on 
exercise-induced changes during high-intensity, inter-
mittent exercise. Int J Sport Nutr. 1995;5:37–44.  
     152.    Acheson KJ, Gremaud G, Meirim I, et al. Metabolic 
effects of caffeine in humans: lipid oxidation or 
futile cycling? Am J Clin Nutr. 2004;79:40–6.  
    153.    Koot P, Deurenberg P. Comparison of changes in 
energy expenditure and body temperatures after 
caffeine consumption. Ann Nutr Metab. 1995;39:
135–42.      C. Wilborn

253 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_11      Nutritional Supplements 
for Endurance Athletes 
           Conrad     P.     Earnest       and     Christopher     Rasmussen    
    Abstract  
  Endurance athletes often seek nutritional strategies inclusive of dietary 
supplements to maximize their performance. Effective supplement rou-
tines, however, are only beneﬁ  cial when built on a sound training diet, 
training regimen, and an appreciation of dietary needs relative to their 
training schema. While traditional dietary interventions are based on the 
glycemic index of carbohydrate, coupled with the addition of protein qual-
ity and quantity, recent innovations have introduced the potential utility of 
long chain glucose polymers and dietary nitrates, such as beetroot juice. 
Consideration is also given to the utility of supplement strategies aimed at 
attenuating immune responses accompanying training and competition. 
A key to implementing successful supplementation routines is the appre-
ciation that athletes should be considered on an individual basis and train-
ing volume and intensity must be taken into account.  
  Keywords  
  Exercise   •   Nutrition   •   Endurance   •   Supplements   •   Ergogenic  
11.1         Introduction 
    The endurance athlete has special nutritional 
needs beyond those of sedentary individuals. It is 
important to note, however, that optimizing per-
formance via supplementation is predicated on the 
athlete having a solid dietary and training founda-
tion. Proper training should focus on the goals of 
the individual and the point in time within the 
training cycle (preseason, in-season, postseason) 
supplementation is considered. Proper nutrition         C.  P.   Earnest ,  PhD, FACSM    ( *) 
  Woodbolt International ,   Bryan ,  TX ,  USA   
  Texas A&M University ,   College Station ,  TX ,  USA   
 e-mail: conrad.earnest@hlkn.tamu.edu   
    C.   Rasmussen ,  MS, CSCS    
  Texas A&M University ,   College Station ,  TX ,  USA     11

254
should focus on a variety of macro- and micronu-
trient-dense foods that adequately meet the energy 
demands of the athlete. However, supplementing 
the athletes’ diet with additional nutrients is 
becoming increasingly important for those 
engaged in heavy endurance training as it is often 
difﬁ cult to obtain an adequate amount of macro-
nutrients through whole foods alone. Several stud-
ies have documented that endurance athletes can 
improve training sessions and performance with a 
combination of proper everyday nutrition and 
effective supplementation [ 1 – 4 ]. 
 To better understand how supplementation can 
improve performance for the endurance athlete, it 
is important to appreciate the physiologic factors 
that affect performance. This chapter begins with 
a description of factors that optimize and limit 
performance. The second section focuses on spe-
ciﬁ c supplements for endurance athletes and how 
they can prepare the athlete for action and enhance 
the training response. The third section discusses 
how supplementation might aid the immune sys-
tem during periods of heavy training.  
11.2     Factors Limiting Endurance 
Athletic Performance 
 It is important to point out that the term “endurance 
athlete” typically refers to those participating in 
running, cycling, swimming, and/or combinations 
of these activities. Much like resistance training, 
endurance athletes often practice a form of peri-
odization in an effort to improve anaerobic capac-
ity, maximal aerobic power, exercise efﬁ  ciency/
economy, and endurance capacity. While beyond 
the scope of this chapter, periodization is generally 
accomplished by manipulating periods of long 
slow distance (aka, LSD), tempo, interval, and 
speed training efforts and manipulating the princi-
ples of training depending on the overall goals of 
the athlete and their event. While numerous factors 
limit performance, heat tolerance, dehydration, the 
depletion of muscle glycogen, and limited blood 
glucose availability all play a major role in fatigue 
during long- duration aerobic exercise. 
 To dissipate heat, the body transfers heat to 
the environment through conduction, convection, 
radiation, evaporation, or a combination of these 
methods. Conduction involves the transfer of heat from one material to another through direct 
molecular contact, and convection is the transfer 
of heat from one place to another by the motion 
of a gas or a liquid across the heated surface. 
Radiation involves the dissipation of heat in the 
form of infrared rays, and evaporation is best 
deﬁ ned as the evaporation of sweat from the 
skin’s surface. Evaporation is the primary avenue 
for heat dissipation during exercise, accounting 
for roughly 80 % of the total heat loss during 
exercise. With prolonged exercise or exercise in a 
hot and humid environment, blood volume is 
reduced by a loss of water through sweat. 
 Continued exercise in a hot, humid environ-
ment requires a redistribution of blood from the 
core to the periphery; thus, cardiac ﬁ  lling 
decreases as the total blood volume gradually 
decreases with an increase in the duration of 
exercise. Subsequently, stroke volume is reduced 
and heart increases in order to maintain oxygen 
delivery during low- to moderate-intensity exer-
cise. The drawback is that the body is unable to 
compensate fully for the decreased stroke volume 
at high exercise intensities as heart rate eventu-
ally reaches a maximal level. Important to this 
phenomena is that a loss in body ﬂ  uid equal to 
1 % of body weight signiﬁ  cantly reduces blood 
volume and limits physical performance [ 5 ]. 
When dehydration reaches 4 %, endurance ath-
letes can experience heat cramps and heat exhaus-
tion [ 6 ]; and when it reaches upwards of 6 %, 
there may be cessation of sweating, a rise in body 
temperature, and eventually heat stroke [ 7 ]. 
 A depletion of muscle glycogen and reduction 
in blood glucose is also critical to endurance per-
formance. During low-intensity activity (~25 % 
VO 2max ), plasma fatty acids and muscle triglycer-
ides are able to supply energy needs, as carbohy-
drate use is relatively low [ 8 ]. As the intensity of 
exercise increases, the amount of carbohydrate 
necessary to keep pace with the increased demand 
also increases and a combination of blood glu-
cose and muscle glycogen contributes a large per-
centage of the energy requirements at  moderate 
(~65 % VO 2max ) exercise intensities [ 8 ]. At the 
beginning of exercise, muscle glycogen is the 
preferred fuel source, but as these levels decline 
there is increased dependence on blood glucose 
by the exercising muscles. Higher-intensity exer-
cise (85 % VO 2max ) is performed at a level that C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

255
promotes an even higher rate of muscle glycogen 
breakdown and carbohydrate oxidation [ 8 ].  
11.3     Supplements for Endurance 
Athletes 
 To aid in the recovery from intense endurance train-
ing and help the body respond to training, a well-
planned diet and supplement strategy that meets 
energy intake needs and incorporates proper timing 
of essential nutrients is vital. A key to understanding 
supplementation for the endurance athlete is the dif-
ferentiation between “supplements” and “ergogenic 
aids.” Nutritional supplements are products or 
ingredients that complete or make an addition to the diet, but are not directly targeted to endurance per-
formance, per se. Ergogenic aids are ingredients that 
aim to enhance work or improve sport performance. 
Due to their synonymy, the two terms will be used 
interchangeably. A well-balanced, micro- and mac-
ronutrient-dense diet serves as the foundation for 
endurance performance. Absence of such a founda-
tion may hinder training adaptations and subsequent 
performance. The continued practice of dietary 
inadequacy may also lead to a loss of muscle mass, 
increased susceptibility to illness, and an increase in 
the symptoms associated with overtraining. 
 In general, pre-exercise nutrition should con-
sist largely of moderate- to low-glycemic index 
foods/supplements (Table  11.1 ) that provide 
a slow, sustained release of carbohydrates and 
   Table 11.1    Partial list of the glycemic index of foods using glucose as the standard   
 Low GI  Moderate GI  High GI 
 Food  GI  Food  GI  Food  GI 
 Chana dal  8  Apple juice  40  Life Savers™  70 
 Peanuts  14  Snickers™  41  White bread  70 
 Plain yogurt  14  Peach  42  Bagel  72 
 Soy beans  18  Pudding  43  Watermelon  72 
 Rice bran  19  Pinto beans  45  Graham crackers  74 
 Peas  22  Orange juice  46  French fries  75 
 Cherries  22  Baked beans  48  Total™  76 
 Barley  25  Strawberry jam  51  Vanilla wafers  77 
 Grapefruit  25  Sweat potato  54  Gatorade™  78 
 Kidney beans  27  Pound cake  54  Fava beans  79 
 Link sausages  28  Popcorn  55  Jelly beans  80 
 Black beans  30  Brown rice  55  Tapioca pudding  81 
 Lentils  30  Fruit cocktail  55  Rice cakes  82 
 Butter beans  31  Pita bread  57  Team Flakes™  82 
 Soy milk  31  PowerBar™  58  Pretzels  83 
 Lima beans  32  Honey  58  Corn Chex™  83 
 Skim milk  32  Blueberry mufﬁ  n  59  Corn ﬂ  akes™  84 
 Split peas  32  Shredded wheat  62  Baked white potato  85 
 Fettucini  32  Black bean soup  64  Mashed potatoes  86 
 Chickpeas  33  Macaroni and cheese  64  Dark rye  86 
 Peanut M&M’s™  33  Raisins  64  Instant rice  87 
 Chocolate milk  34  Canteloupe  65  Crispix™  87 
 Vermicelli  35  Mars Bar™  65  Boiled Sebago  87 
 Whole wheat spag.  37  Rye bread  65  Rice Chex™  89 
 Apple  38  Pineapple  66  Gluten-free bread  90 
 Pear  38  Grapenuts™  67  Baked red potato  93 
 Tomato soup  38  Angel food cake  67  French baguette  95 
 Ravioli  39  Stoned wheat thins  67  Peeled Desiree  101 
 Pinto beans  39  Taco shells  68  Dates  103 
 Plums  39  Whole wheat bread  69  Tofu frozen dessert  115 
   GI  glycemic index  11 Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes

256
protein necessary to fuel a workout (see sidebar: 
What Is the Glycemic Index?). It generally takes 
about 4 h for dietary carbohydrate to be digested 
and begins to be stored as muscle and liver glyco-
gen. Thus, pre-exercise meals should be con-
sumed about 4–6 h prior to exercise [ 9 ]. Put into 
practice, this means that for an athlete training in 
the afternoon, breakfast becomes an important 
meal to top off muscle and liver glycogen levels. 
Likewise, for the athlete who trains ﬁ  rst thing in 
the morning, the meal the evening before is vital. 
Recent research has also indicated that ingesting 
a light carbohydrate and protein snack 30–60 min 
prior to exercise (e.g., 50 g carbohydrate and 
5–10 g protein) further increases carbohydrate 
availability toward the end of an intense exercise 
bout owing to a slight increase in glucose and 
insulin levels [ 10 ,  11 ]. This may also serve to 
increase the availability of amino acids and 
decrease exercise-induced protein catabolism 
[ 10 – 12 ] .  Insulin inhibits protein degradation and 
apparently offsets the catabolic effects of other 
hormones (e.g., cortisol) [ 13 ]. Anabolic actions 
of insulin appear to be related to its nitrogen- 
sparing effects and promotion of nitrogen reten-
tion [ 13 ]. The choice of foods and supplements 
selected is largely up to individual athlete and 
their personal preferences. It is recommended 
that the endurance athlete consume something 
familiar on the day of competition rather than 
experimenting with a new food or supplement.     Nutrition during an intense endurance training 
session can also aid workout quality as participa-
tion time exceeds 60–90 min and usually centers 
on supplementation more than pre- and post- 
exercise nutrition if for no other reason than the 
convenience supplements provide. Convenience 
supplements include glucose–electrolyte solu-
tions, meal replacement powders, ready-to-drink 
supplements, energy bars, energy gels, and ﬁ  t-
ness waters. They are typically fortiﬁ  ed with 
various amounts of vitamins and minerals and 
differ on the amount of carbohydrate, protein, 
and fat they contain. The beneﬁ  cial effects of 
solid and liquid carbohydrate/protein supple-
ments are similar when thermal stress is not a 
factor. Liquid supplements also aid rehydration 
and tend to digest easier for most athletes while 
exercising. 0 (water) representing the lowest ranking 
and 100 (pure glucose) the highest ranking. 
The glycemic index is obtained through 
use of an oral glucose tolerance test utiliz-
ing 50 g of carbohydrate from the test food. 
Blood samples are obtained periodically 
throughout a 2-h period, glucose levels are 
measured, and the area under the curve is 
calculated. 
 The glycemic index of a carbohydrate has 
a profound effect on subsequent glucose and 
insulin responses. High-glycemic index car-
bohydrates (i.e., dextrose, maltose) produce 
large increases in glucose and insulin levels. 
Moderate-glycemic index carbohydrates 
(i.e., sucrose, lactose) traditionally produce 
only modest increases in glucose and insu-
lin. Finally, low-glycemic index carbohy-
drates (i.e., fructose, maltodextrin) have little 
if any effect on glucose and insulin responses. 
It has been suggested that manipulating the 
glycemic index of a sports supplement may 
optimize carbohydrate availability for exer-
cise, particularly prolonged intense exercise. 
Caution should be used when applying the 
glycemic index to whole foods that contain 
several ingredients. 
 Sidebar 
 The glycemic index is a ranking of foods 
based on their postprandial blood glucose 
response compared to a reference food, 
either glucose or white bread. The glyce-
mic index concept was ﬁ  rst developed in 
1981 to help determine which foods were 
best for people with diabetes. The glycemic 
index of a food is based on several factors, 
including the physical form of the food, the 
amylose/amylopectin ratio (two types of 
starch), sugar content, ﬁ  ber content, fat 
content, and the acidity of a food. The 
index consists of a scale from 0 to 100 with C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

257
 Cyclists can generally empty from the stom-
ach up to 1,000 ml of ﬂ  uid per hour, and therefore 
40–60 g of carbohydrate can be easily ingested 
while consuming a large volume of ﬂ  uid [ 14 ]. On 
the other hand, runners generally consume less 
than 500 ml of ﬂ  uid per hour due to the [ 15 ]. 
Therefore, runners tend to use more concentrated 
solutions than cyclists in order to consume ade-
quate amounts of carbohydrate. For cyclists, a 
carbohydrate solution of 4–6 % is generally suf-
ﬁ cient when ﬂ  uid replacement is important. For 
runners, this concentration may have to be 
8–10 % to provide adequate carbohydrate. 
Glucose concentrations in excess of 10 % seem 
to delay gastric emptying and compromise ﬂ  uid 
replacement (Fig.  11.1 ).  
 Adequate sodium intake is also important to 
combat potential electrolyte imbalances during 
exercise. Most GES solutions contain sufﬁ  cient 
quantities of sodium. If sodium is lacking in the 
supplement, however, electrolyte tablets are also 
available. The bottom line is that rapid nutrient 
availability is especially important during a 
workout to maintain energy levels and training 
intensity. Thus, high-glycemic index sources 
should make up most of the supplements ingested 
during an endurance-type workout. Once again, 
athletes should experiment with different formu-lations to ﬁ  nd the one that works best for them 
prior to competition. 
 It is now well established that with prolonged 
continuous exercise the time-to-fatigue at moder-
ate sub-maximum exercise intensities is related 
to pre-exercise muscle glycogen concentra-
tions—thus the importance of everyday nutrition 
along with pre-exercise nutrition [ 17 ]. In addi-
tion, a GES has been the recommended supple-
ment of choice for decades during exercise to 
preserve muscle glycogen and maintain blood 
glucose levels. With short-term, high-intensity 
exercise, the relation between the availability of 
muscle glycogen and performance is less clear. 
   One study that utilized 15 high-intensity 6- second 
bouts on a cycle ergometer concluded that a high 
carbohydrate regimen over 48 h helped subjects 
maintain a higher power output than did the exer-
cise and dietary regimen that included a low car-
bohydrate content [ 18 ]. This study demonstrated 
the importance of a high carbohydrate diet in 
relation to short-term, high-intensity exercise. 
 Recent research has shown that the addition of 
protein can have added beneﬁ  ts to a supplement 
ingested during exercise by reducing muscle pro-
tein degradation and speeding post-exercise 
recovery. Carbohydrate and protein intake sig-
niﬁ cantly alters circulating metabolites and the 
hormonal milieu (i.e., insulin, testosterone, 
growth hormone, cortisol) as well as the response 
of muscle protein and glycogen balance [ 19 ]. 
Furthermore, the addition of protein to a carbo-
hydrate supplement enhances the insulin response 
of a carbohydrate supplement compared to a pla-
cebo [ 13 ,  20 ], which can ultimately lead to per-
formance gains [ 19 ]. 
 Saunders et al. examined the effects of a car-
bohydrate–protein beverage on cycling endur-
ance and muscle damage [ 21 ]. They utilized 15 
male cyclists who were randomly administered 
either a carbohydrate or carbohydrate–protein 
beverage (4:1 ratio) every 15 min during exercise 
and immediately upon completion of a ride to 
volitional exhaustion. The carbohydrate–protein 
beverage produced signiﬁ  cant improvement in 
time-to-fatigue and reduction of muscle damage 
in the selected endurance athletes. The authors 
concluded that the beneﬁ  ts observed were the 
  Fig. 11.1    Effect of carbohydrate (CHO) concentration 
on the rate of gastric emptying of ﬂ  uids and carbohydrate 
from the stomach during exercise. Carbohydrate concen-
trations of 8–10 % maximize carbohydrate gastric empty-
ing without substantially reducing ﬂ  uid delivery. From 
Gisolﬁ   and Lamb [ 16 ], with permission        11 Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes

258
result of a higher total caloric content of the car-
bohydrate–protein beverage or were due to spe-
ciﬁ c protein-mediated mechanisms. 
 Controversy exists among numerous studies 
examining the addition of protein because such 
additions increase the total caloric content of the 
supplement. Anytime a larger amount of calories 
is consumed, an athlete is likely to perform and 
recover more rapidly. Therefore, when examin-
ing studies that are not based on isocaloric data, 
one should give them careful consideration. 
 Whey is the preferred protein to ingest during 
exercise because of its rapid absorption rates and 
the fact that is contains all of the essential amino 
acids as well as a high percentage of leucine and 
glutamine, which are amino acids the body uses 
during sustained exercise [ 22 ]. High-glycemic 
index carbohydrates (glucose, sucrose, maltodex-
trin) should be combined with the protein in a 4:1 
ratio to provide optimal beneﬁ  ts. Table  11.2  gives 
an example of the ideal nutrient composition for 
a sports drink during exercise [ 24 ]. Sports drinks 
such as that shown in Table  11.2  should be 
ingested every 20 min during an endurance train-
ing session to help improve performance and 
reduce muscle protein breakdown.   Post-exercise nutrition for the endurance ath-
lete is vital to restore muscle glycogen stores, 
enhance skeletal muscle ﬁ  ber repair and growth, 
and maintain overall health and wellness. After 
an intense exercise bout, the body is in a cata-
bolic state (thus key muscle nutrients are being 
broken down). However, the opportunity exists to 
alter the catabolic state into a more anabolic hor-
monal proﬁ  le where the athlete begins to rebuild 
muscle and thus initiates a much faster recovery. 
Exercise that results in glycogen depletion acti-
vates glycogen synthase, the enzyme responsible 
for controlling the transfer of glucose from UDP- 
glucose to an amylase chain [ 24 ,  25 ]. This also 
happens to be the rate-limiting step of glycogen 
formation. 
 The degree of glycogen synthase activation is 
inﬂ uenced by the extent of glycogen depletion 
[ 24 ]. Complete resynthesis of muscle glycogen, 
however, ultimately depends on adequate carbo-
hydrate intake. Carbohydrates composed of glu-
cose or glucose polymers are the most effective 
for replenishing muscle glycogen, whereas fruc-
tose is most beneﬁ  cial for replenishing liver gly-
cogen [ 26 ]. Glucose and fructose are metabolized 
differently. They have different gastric emptying 
rates and are absorbed into the blood at different 
rates [ 25 ,  27 ]. Furthermore, the insulin response 
to a glucose supplement is generally much greater 
than that of a fructose supplement [ 18 ]. The fact 
that approximately 79 and 14 % of total carbohy-
drate is stored in skeletal muscle and the liver, 
respectively, is further indication of the impor-
tance of consuming glucose or glucose polymers 
after exercise [ 9 ]. 
 Blom et al. found that ingestion of glucose and 
sucrose was twice as effective as fructose for 
restoring muscle glycogen [ 28 ]. The maximum 
stimulatory effect of oral glucose intake on post- 
exercise muscle glycogen synthesis was reached 
at a dose of 0.70 g/kg taken every second hour 
following exercise in which the muscle glycogen 
concentration was reduced by an average of 80 %. 
In addition, the rate of post-exercise muscle gly-
cogen synthesis increases with increasing oral 
glucose intake, up to a maximum rate of approxi-
mately 6 mmol/kg/h. Blom et al. indicated that     Table 11.2    Ideal nutrient composition for a sports drink 
during exercise   
 Nutrient objectives 
 Replace ﬂ  uids and electrolytes 
 Preserve muscle glycogen 
 Maintain blood glucose levels 
 Maintain hydration 
 Minimize cortisol increases 
 Set the stage for a faster recovery 
 Satisfy thirst 
 Ideal composition (per 12 oz water) 
 High-glycemic carbohydrates (e.g., glucose, sucrose, 
maltodextrin): 20–26 g 
 Whey protein: 5–6 g 
 Vitamin C: 30–120 g 
 Vitamin E: 20–60 IU 
 Sodium: 100–250 mg 
 Potassium: 60–120 mg 
 Magnesium: 60–120 mg 
  Adapted from Ivy and Portman [ 23 ], with permission  C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

259
the differences between glucose and fructose 
supplementation were the result of the way the 
body metabolized these sugars [ 28 ]. Fructose 
metabolism takes place predominantly in the 
liver, whereas most glucose appears to bypass the 
liver and is stored or oxidized by muscle [ 26 ]. 
 Subsequent research by Burke and associates 
found that the intake of high-glycemic index car-
bohydrate foods after prolonged exercise pro-
duces signiﬁ  cantly more glycogen storage than 
consumption of low-glycemic index carbohy-
drate foods 24 h after exercise [ 29 ]. Although the 
meal immediately after exercise elicited exagger-
ated blood glucose and plasma insulin responses 
that were similar for the low-glycemic index and 
high-glycemic index meals, for the remainder of 
the 24 h the low-glycemic index meals elicited 
lower glucose and insulin responses than the 
high-glycemic index meals. As previously men-
tioned, protein has shown additive effects to that 
of carbohydrate alone in regard to the rate of 
muscle glycogen resynthesis and overall post- 
exercise recovery. The addition of protein to a 
carbohydrate supplement increases insulin levels 
more than that produced by carbohydrate or pro-
tein alone [ 30 ]. Tarnopolsky et al. showed that 
post-exercise carbohydrate and carbohydrate–
protein–fat nutritional supplements can increase 
glycogen resynthesis during the ﬁ  rst 4 h after 
exercise to a greater extent than placebo for both 
men and women [ 31 ]. The supplements adminis-
tered were both isoenergetic and isonitrogenous. 
Insulin has a profound anabolic effect on skeletal 
muscle. In the resting state, insulin decreases the 
rate of muscle protein degradation [ 32 ]. 
 More recent research suggests that carbohy-
drate taking the form of a long chain glucose 
polymer (LCGP) results in faster gastric empty-
ing versus a moderately hypertonic carbohydrate 
source [ 33 ]. Follow-up studies using the same 
compound also show a faster rate of glycogen 
synthesis 2 h following ingestion suggesting that 
LCGP may optimize glycogen replacement fol-
lowing depletion [ 34 ]. During exercise, however, 
two studies by Rowland and colleagues show no 
improvement in carbohydrate oxidation accom-
panying LCGP ingestion during exercise [ 35 ,  36 ]. Therefore, the potential ergogenic effects of 
LGCO during exercise remain questionable with-
out further research. One interesting ﬁ  nding pre-
sented by Stephens et al. (2008) does suggest that 
LCGP may improve exercise responses when 
training or competition is broken up. In this study, 
participants consumed a (a) control beverage, (b) 
a 100 g of a low molecular weight glucose poly-
mer, or (c) 100 g of a LCGP immediately follow-
ing 90 min of cycling at ~73 % of VO 2max . After 
2 h of rest, they then performed a 15-min time 
trial. The results of the time trial showed that par-
ticipants consuming the LCGP were able to per-
form more work versus the control or low 
molecular weight glucose polymer solutions. 
These latter results suggest that LCGP may be a 
useful supplement strategy during training or 
competition requiring heavy exertion during sev-
eral points within the same day. 
 To summarize, research has clearly shown that 
muscle glycogen resynthesis occurs more quickly 
if carbohydrate is consumed immediately follow-
ing exercise in contrast to waiting for several 
hours [ 37 ] .  Whereas most of the everyday diet for 
the endurance athlete should be a low- to 
moderate- glycemic index diet, the post-exercise 
diet should be centered on moderate- to high- 
glycemic index sources. This nutritional approach 
accelerates glycogen resynthesis and promotes a 
more anabolic hormonal state, which may speed 
recovery [ 31 ]. 
 The increased protein and glycogen synthesis 
is believed to be due to insulin secretion from the 
pancreas combined with an increase in muscle 
insulin sensitivity [ 38 ]. This was demonstrated in 
a study (Fig.  11.2 ) showing that a carbohydrate–
protein combination was 38 % more effective in 
stimulating protein synthesis than a protein sup-
plement and more than twice as effective as a car-
bohydrate supplement [ 39 ]. Insulin appears to 
stimulate biosynthetic pathways that lead to 
increased glucose utilization, increased carbohy-
drate and fat storage, and increased protein syn-
thesis. This metabolic pattern is characteristic of 
the absorptive state. The rise in insulin secretion 
during this state is responsible for shifting meta-
bolic pathways to net anabolism [ 9 ]. In contrast, 11 Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes

260
when insulin secretion is low, the opposite effect 
occurs. The rate of glucose entry into the cells is 
reduced and net catabolism occurs, rather than 
net synthesis of glycogen, triglycerides, and pro-
tein. This pattern is reminiscent of the post- 
absorptive state.  
11.3.1     Branched-Chain Amino Acids 
 Another popular nutritional ergogenic aid is the 
branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs): leucine, 
isoleucine, and valine. They are prevalent in both 
protein/meal replacement powders and energy 
drinks. Table  11.3  shows the typical amino acid 
composition of some common protein prepara-
tions. The RDA for BCAAs is less than 3 g per 
day, although supplementation studies frequently 
utilize 5–20 g per day in tablet form and 1–7 g 
per liter in solutions [ 40 ]. The theory behind 
BCAA supplements relates to a phenomenon 
known as central fatigue, which holds that 
 mental fatigue in the brain can adversely affect 
physical performance in endurance events. The 
central fatigue hypothesis suggests that low blood 
levels of BCAAs may accelerate the produc-
tion of the brain neurotransmitter serotonin, or 
5- hydroxytryptamine (5-HTP), and prematurely lead to fatigue [ 41 ]. Tryptophan, an amino acid 
that circulates in the blood, is a precursor of sero-
tonin and can be more easily transported into the 
  Fig. 11.2    Effect of protein and carbohydrate alone and in combination on protein synthesis, measured after exercise. 
From Tarnopolsky et al., with permission [ 30 ]        
   Table 11.3    Typical amino acid composition of whey, 
casein, and soy isolates   
 Amino acid  Whey  Casein  Soy 
 Alanine  4.6  2.7  3.8 
 Arginine  2.3  3.7  6.7 
 Aspartic acid  9.6  6.4  10.2 
 Cysteine  2.8  0.3  1.1 
 Glutamic acid  15.0  20.2  16.8 
 Glycine  1.5  2.4  3.7 
 Histidine a   1.6  2.8  2.3 
 Isoleucine a,b   4.5  5.5  4.3 
 Leucine a,b   11.6  8.3  7.2 
 Lysine a   9.1  7.4  5.5 
 Methionine a   2.2  2.5  1.1 
 Phenylalanine a   3.1  4.5  4.6 
 Proline  4.4  10.2  4.5 
 Serine  3.3  5.7  4.6 
 Threonine a   4.3  4.4  3.3 
 Tryptophan a   2.3  1.1  1.1 
 Tyrosine  3.3  5.7  3.3 
 Valin  a , b   4.5  6.5  4.5 
  Values are expressed per 100 g of product 
  a Essential amino acid 
  b Branched-chain amino acid   C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

261
brain to increase serotonin levels when BCAA 
levels in the blood are low because high blood 
levels of BCAAs can block tryptophan transport 
into the brain [ 42 ]. During endurance exercise, as 
muscle and liver glycogen are depleted for energy 
the blood levels of BCAAs also decrease, and 
fatty acid levels increase to serve as an additional 
energy source [ 43 ]. The issue with extra fatty 
acids in the blood is that they need to attach to 
albumin as a carrier protein for proper transport. 
In doing so, the fatty acids displace tryptophan 
from its place on albumin and facilitate the trans-
port of tryptophan into the brain for conversion to 
serotonin [ 44 ]. Thus, the combination of reduced 
BCAAs and elevated fatty acids in the blood 
causes more tryptophan to enter the brain and 
more serotonin to be produced, leading to central 
fatigue [ 45 ].
   For endurance athletes competing in long 
races (more than 2 h), BCAA supplements can 
help delay central fatigue and maintain mental 
performance [ 46 ]. One study looked at BCAA 
supplementation during a marathon and showed 
improved performance for slower runners (3+ 
hours) but no effect on faster runners (less than 
3.05 h) [ 2 ]. Chronic BCAA supplementation 
(2 weeks) has also been shown to be effective in 
improving time-trial performance in trained 
cyclists [ 39 ]. In addition to their effects on pro-
longing endurance and delaying central fatigue, 
BCAA supplements have been associated with a 
reduced rate of protein and glycogen breakdown 
during exercise and an inhibition of muscle 
breakdown following exhaustive endurance exer-
cise [ 41 ,  47 ]. A number of studies in trained and 
untrained subjects, however, have shown no 
effect of BCAA supplements on exercise perfor-
mance or mental performance [ 48 ]. In some 
cases, BCAAs have been compared with carbo-
hydrate supplementation during exercise, with 
results showing they both delay fatigue to similar 
degrees [ 43 ]. The data on BCAA supplements are 
mixed, but they clearly do not harm endurance 
performance. Some studies have shown positive 
adaptations, whereas others have displayed no 
effect. Biological variations may determine 
whether BCAAs are effective for the individual 
athlete and the particular sport or event.  11.3.2     Caffeine 
 Pharmacological sports ergogenics are drugs 
designed to function like hormones or neu-
rotransmitter substances that are found naturally 
in the human body. Like some nutritional sports 
ergogenics, pharmacological sports ergogenics 
may enhance physical power by affecting various 
metabolic processes associated with sport suc-
cess. The most popular pharmacological sports 
ergogenics used by endurance athletes today are 
caffeine and ephedrine. Caffeine is theorized to 
enhance endurance performance by ﬁ  rst stimulat-
ing the central nervous system (CNS) and 
increasing psychological arousal. Caffeine also 
stimulates the release of epinephrine from the 
adrenal glad, which may further enhance physi-
ological processes such as cardiovascular func-
tion and fuel utilization. The caffeine-mediated 
increase in free fatty acid mobilization and spar-
ing of muscle glycogen is the primary theory 
underlying the ergogenic effects of caffeine on 
prolonged endurance activities. Lastly, caffeine 
increases myoﬁ  lament afﬁ  nity for calcium and/or 
increases the release of calcium from the sarco-
plasmic reticulum in skeletal muscle, resulting in 
more efﬁ  cient muscle contractions. 
 In one of the ﬁ  rst studies conducted on caf-
feine’s ergogenic effect, subjects consumed 
decaffeinated coffee or decaffeinated coffee com-
bined with 330 mg pure caffeine 60 min prior to 
exercise. Time to exhaustion was more than 19 % 
longer in the caffeine trial than in the decaffein-
ated trial [ 49 ].    The authors concluded that the 
performance increase was more likely due to the 
increase in fat oxidation, as muscle glycogen was 
not measured. Another study measured muscle 
glycogen utilization and found that caffeine prior 
to exercise reduced muscle glycogen utilization 
by 30 % [ 50 ]. A later study supported the muscle 
glycogen-sparing hypothesis by reporting a 55 % 
decrease in muscle glycogenolysis during the 
ﬁ rst 15 min of exercise in the caffeine trial [ 51 ]. 
The decrease in glycogenolysis during the initial 
stages of exercise allowed more glycogen to be 
available during the ﬁ  nal stages, subsequently 
leading to an increased time to exhaustion. 
Further support of caffeine supplementation was 11 Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes

262
demonstrated in a study examining the effects of 
acute caffeine ingestion (6 mg/kg) on prolonged, 
intermittent sprint performance on a cycle ergom-
eter. The total amount of sprint work performed 
during the caffeine trial was 8.5 % greater than 
that performed during the placebo trial [ 52 ]. The 
authors concluded that acute caffeine ingestion 
can signiﬁ  cantly enhance performance of pro-
longed, intermittent sprint ability in competitive 
male, team-sport athletes. 
 Despite the overwhelming ergogenic evidence 
of caffeine supplementation, caution should be 
exercised when considering its use. A recent study 
showed that in healthy volunteers a caffeine dose 
corresponding to two cups of coffee (200 mg) sig-
niﬁ cantly decreased blood ﬂ  ow to the heart during 
exercise by 22 %. That percentage increased to 
39 % for people exercising in a high-altitude 
chamber, which the researchers used to simulate 
the way coronary artery disease (CAD) limits the 
amount of oxygen that gets to the heart [ 53 ]. 
Because an increase in blood to the heart is neces-
sary for aerobic activity, the ﬁ  ndings theoretically 
suggest that caffeine could slow the body down. 
The study’s purpose, however, was not to look at 
whether caffeine could help athletes go faster or 
farther. Instead, it set out to investigate the effect 
caffeine has on blood ﬂ  ow to the heart. It can thus 
be concluded that people with CAD or those at a 
high risk for heart disease should avoid loading up 
on caffeine before a run or at least check with 
their primary care physician ﬁ  rst. 
 Though a popular concern of caffeine inges-
tion has been for dehydration, recent research by 
Killer et al. (2014) appears to dispel this myth 
[ 54 ]. Using a counterbalanced, crossover design, 
50 male coffee drinkers consumed either 
4 × 200 mL of coffee containing 4 mg/kg caffeine 
or water.    By examining total body water and deu-
terium oxide techniques, no signiﬁ  cant changes 
in total body water were noted between trials 
across any hematological markers or in 24 h urine 
volume following caffeine ingestion; thus coffee 
provides similar hydrating qualities to water 
when consumed in moderation [ 54 ]. 
 A ﬁ nal note in regard to caffeine supplementa-
tion is that the International Olympic Committee 
lists caffeine as a banned substance. Although 
some amount of caffeine is allowed because of its occurrence in foods, a urinary level that exceeds 
12 μg/ml results in a doping violation and possi-
ble disqualiﬁ  cation or suspension. Therefore, it is 
recommended to keep the daily caffeine intake to 
less than 3 mg/kg body weight (i.e., 50–200 mg of 
caffeine). Table  11.4  lists typical caffeine content 
in common beverages, pills, and other products.
   Physiological sports ergogenics are substances 
or techniques designed speciﬁ  cally to augment 
natural physiological processes that generate 
physical power. Two popular examples are glyc-
erol and creatine. Physiological sports ergogenics 
are not drugs per se. In a strict sense, however, 
some may be regarded as drugs because they are 
prescribed substances.  
11.3.3     Glycerol 
 Glycerol is also known as glycerin and an alcohol 
compound that is more commonly found in the 
diet as a component of fat or triglycerides. It 
serves as a backbone onto which fatty acid mol-
ecules are attached and is marketed as an aid for 
“hyperhydrating” the body by increasing blood 
volume and helping to delay dehydration. Thus, 
glycerol may aid endurance athletes training or 
competing in hot, humid environments by hydrat-
ing tissues, increasing blood volume, and ulti-
mately delaying fatigue and exhaustion associated 
with dehydration. Glycerin dosages used in 
research are based on body weight or total body 
water and have approximated 1 g/kg body weight, 
with each gram diluted in about 20–25 mL of 
water or similar ﬂ  uid [ 40 ]. 
 Numerous studies support the theory that 
glycerol added to ﬂ  uids increases tissue hydration    Table 11.4    Typical caffeine content in common bever-
ages, pills, and other products   
 Brewed coffee (cup) a  = 100 mg 
 Decaffeinated coffee (cup) = 3 mg 
 Medium-brewed tea (cup) = 50 mg 
 Cocoa (cup) = 5 mg 
 Starbucks’ Coffee Grande (cup) = 90 
 Guarana (100 mg) = 100 mg 
 Cola-type soda (can) = 40 mg 
  Adapted from M.H. Williams [ 40 ], with permission 
  a Cup = 5–6 oz  C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

263
compared with drinking ﬂ  uid without glycerol 
added. Following glycerol consumption, the heart 
rate and body core temperature are lower during 
exercise in the heat, suggesting an ergogenic 
effect. In endurance type of activities a larger 
supply of stored water may lead to a delay in 
dehydration and exhaustion [ 55 ,  56 ]. More spe-
ciﬁ cally, one study examined the effect of glyc-
erol (1 g/kg) supplementation on body 
temperature while exercising on a treadmill 
(60 % VO 2 max) at 42 °C at 25 % relative humid-
ity for 90 min 2.5 h after ingestion of the glycerol. 
Results showed that the urine volume decreased 
before exercise, the sweat rate increased, and the 
rectal temperature was lower during exercise 
[ 57 ]. These ﬁ  ndings imply that glycerol ingestion 
was helpful in maintaining normal body tempera-
ture during exercise in the heat. 
 Another study reporting positive results gave 
11 ﬁ t adults glycerol (1.2 g/kg in a 26 ml/kg body 
weight solution) or a placebo (26 mg/kg body 
weight aspartame-ﬂ  avored solution) 1 h prior to 
cycle exercise to exhaustion at 60 % of maximum 
workload (temperature 23.5–24.5 °C, humidity 
25–27 %). The heart rate for those taking glyc-
erol was 2.8 bpm lower, and endurance time was 
21 % longer [ 58 ]. In a follow-up study, these 
same researchers wanted to determine whether 
the same pre-exercise routine followed by a car-
bohydrate oral replacement solution during exer-
cise had any further effect. Once again, they 
found that when glycerol had been taken the 
endurance time was 25 % longer [ 58 ]. 
 It is important to note that not all studies show 
an ergogenic effect and that the beneﬁ  ts—
although noted for trained endurance athletes 
exercising in hot, humid environments—are not 
necessarily observed in athletes who are less well 
trained or are exercising in more temperate cli-
mates [ 56 ,  59 ]. These factors should be taken into 
account when considering glycerol supplements.  
11.3.4     Creatine 
 Although creatine supplements are typically mar-
keted as bodybuilding and “strength-boosting” 
supplements, some evidence suggests that they may prove beneﬁ  cial for endurance athletes as 
well. Though    creatine supplementation will not 
improve longer exercise efforts from equivalent 
running distances exceeding 5 km, some beneﬁ  ts 
may be derived for shorter, intermittent bouts of 
work associated with interval or tempo type train-
ing for distances under 2,000 m [ 60 ,  61 ]. 
 Normally, about 1–2 g of creatine daily is pro-
duced in the body from the amino acids arginine, 
glycine, and methionine. Dietary sources 
(Table  11.5 ) , including meat and ﬁ  sh, add 
another 1–2 g of creatine per day, although over-
cooking destroys most of the creatine (the 1 g of 
creatine in an 8-oz steak may fall to zero if that 
steak is well done). In the body, creatine plays a 
vital role in cellular energy production as creatine 
phosphate (phosphocreatine) in regenerating 
ATP in skeletal muscle [ 46 ]. Most studies utilize 
doses approximating 20–30 g/day, consumed in 
four or ﬁ  ve equal doses throughout the day for 
5–7 days followed by a maintenance dose of 5 g/
day [ 40 ].
   One of the earliest creatine studies utilized 
well-trained distance runners and demonstrated 
improved cumulative, repeated running times 
following four 300-m sprints [ 63 ]. Another study 
demonstrated signiﬁ  cant increases in time to 
exhaustion during intense cycle ergometry with 
creatine supplementation [ 64 ]. Yet another study 
reported that creatine loading in both male and 
female athletes resulted in a 12 % increase in the 
anaerobic threshold as well as a decrease in blood    Table 11.5    Creatine content in select foods   
 Food  Creatine content 
 g/lb  g/kg 
 Cod  1.4  3.0 
 Beef  2.0  4.5 
 Herring  3.0–4.5  6.5–10.0 
 Milk  0.05  0.1 
 Pork  2.3  5.0 
 Salmon  2.0  4.5 
 Shrimp  Trace  Trace 
 Tuna  1.8  4.0 
 Plaice  0.9  2.0 
 Fruits/vegetables  Trace  Trace 
  Adapted from Williams MH, Kreider RB, Branch 
D. Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL, (1999) [ 62 ]  11 Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes

264
lactate during incremental cycle tests [ 65 ]. 
One other study showed continued support by 
delaying the onset of neuromuscular fatigue 
(a parameter similar to anaerobic threshold) 
by 13 % in highly trained female athletes [ 66 ]. 
Most scientists agree that creatine’s effectiveness 
can be attributed to one of two scenarios: (1) 
Phosphocreatine may aid ATP resynthesis for up 
to 3 min, albeit in a decreasing role with time and 
intensity of work [ 67 ], and (2) it may act as an 
energy shuttle between the mitochondria and 
muscle ﬁ  bers, which suggests that creatine may 
help produce ATP aerobically [ 68 ]. Regardless, 
increasing muscle creatine phosphate levels 
through creatine supplementation may decrease 
the reliance on anaerobic glycolysis and reduce 
intramuscular lactate accumulation, thereby 
delaying the onset of fatigue.  
11.3.5     Phosphates 
 In addition to the major macronutrients, phos-
phorus, an essential mineral distributed widely in 
foods, may also be classiﬁ  ed as a nutritional 
sports ergogenic. Phosphorus is distributed 
widely in foods, particularly meat, seafood, eggs, 
milk, cheese, whole-grain products, nuts, and 
legumes. The Recommended Dietary Allowance 
(RDA) is 800 mg for adults and 1,200 mg for 
those 11–25 years of age [ 40 ]. Phosphate salts in 
both inorganic and organic forms play important 
roles in human metabolism, particularly as 
related to sports performance. They may inﬂ  u-
ence all three human energy systems by acting as 
intracellular buffers. Another theory suggests 
that phosphate salts increase the formation of 
2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), a compound 
in the red blood cells (RBCs) that facilitates the 
release of oxygen to tissues. 
 An early study on phosphate loading exam-
ined highly trained runners who took 1 g sodium 
phosphate four times daily for 6 days. The phos-
phate salts increased the concentration of 2,3- 
DPG in RBCs by 6.6 %, which subsequently 
resulted in an increase in VO 2max  [ 69 ]. This study 
also reported decreased production of lactate and 
reduced sensation of physiological stress. A later study utilizing highly trained cross-country 
 runners found that 1 g sodium phosphate four 
times daily for 6 days resulted in a 10 % increase 
in VO 2max  and an 11.8 % increase in the anaerobic 
threshold [ 4 ]. The authors attributed the improve-
ments in exercise performance to increased meta-
bolic efﬁ  ciency. Well-controlled studies support 
the theory that phosphate salt supplementation 
may enhance function of the oxygen energy sys-
tem. Furthermore, studies show that phosphate 
salt supplementation increases VO 2 max and 
improves performance in endurance exercise 
tasks, including a greater number of stages com-
pleted in a progressive treadmill running test, 
increased time-to-exhaustion on a bicycle ergom-
eter, and a decreased time to complete a 40-km 
cycling test [ 40 ]. However, if phosphate salts are 
in fact ergogenic, the underlying mechanism has 
yet to be determined [ 40 ]. The scientiﬁ  c literature 
suggests that phosphates may have an ergogenic 
effect on endurance athletes, but there is little 
support for its effectiveness during anaerobic 
exercise [ 4 ,  69 ]. More research with tight meth-
odological control is still needed to support 
claims made in regard to phosphorus supplemen-
tation in both aerobic and anaerobic events.  
11.3.6     Nitrates/Nitrites 
 A new area of research interest involves the use 
of dietary nitrates which can be found in green 
leafy vegetables, such as lettuce, celery, and beet-
root [ 70 ]. Following ingestion, nitrate levels peak 
after 1–2 h, where nitrite levels peak between 2 
and 3 h [ 71 ]. The signiﬁ  cance of dietary nitrates 
is the observation that plasma nitrate and nitrate 
can be reduced to nitric oxide (aka, NO), which 
has numerous physiologic effects ranging from 
vasodilation, mitochondrial respiration, and bio-
genesis to glucose uptake [ 72 ,  73 ]. With respect 
to endurance exercise, these effects have the 
potential to reduce fatigue, improve exercise efﬁ  -
ciency, and increase performance. Table  11.6  lists 
the nitrate content of select foods.
   One of the ﬁ  rst studies to show an improve-
ment in exercise performance using nitrate sup-
plementation was performed by Larsen et al. C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

265
(2007) who supplemented well-trained partici-
pants with sodium nitrate at 0.1 mmol/kg for 
3 days. Results from this study showed a signiﬁ  -
cant improvement in the oxygen cost, gross efﬁ  -
ciency, and delta efﬁ  ciency of exercise over the 
ﬁ rst four stages of an incremental exercise test to 
exhaustion; however, no improvements were noted 
for VO 2max . In a study using dietary nitrates derived 
from beetroot juice, Bailey and colleagues demon-
strated a 5 % decrease in the O 2  cost of moderate-
intensity, steady-state exercise, accompanied by a 
23 % reduction in the VO 2  slow component. The 
VO 2  slow component often accompanies pro-
longed exercise and a reduction is synonymous 
improved exercise efﬁ  ciency [ 74 ]. An interesting 
ﬁ nding from this study is the observation that 
despite no statistical difference in VO 2max  between 
the control and treatment groups, time-to-exhaus-
tion was signiﬁ  cantly increased during beetroot 
supplementation. Time-to-exhaustion, though 
associated with VO 2max , also represents an improve-
ment in exercise efﬁ  ciency. For example, Earnest 
et al. (2014) have recently shown that a greater 
percent increase in time-to-exhaustion (25–30 %) 
is manifest in light of more minimal changes to 
VO 2max  (5–6 %) following exercise training [ 75 ]. 
While these early ﬁ  ndings are interesting physio-
logically, the fundamental issue of “exercise per-
formance” is more a salient point of discussion to 
this chapter.  Larsen and colleagues (2007) were one of the 
ﬁ rst to examine exercise performance in club 
level cyclists who were supplemented acutely 
with the equivalent of 6.2 mmol of nitrate 2.5 h 
prior to a 4 and 16 km cycling time trial [ 76 ]. 
While no between-group differences in average 
VO 2  were observed, beetroot juice improved time 
trial performance by ~2.8 % for both conditions. 
While the effects may seem trivial an improve-
ment of this magnitude is sufﬁ  cient to displace 
professional cyclists from a podium position in 
the Tour de France [ 77 ]. Using a longer supple-
ment period, Cermak et al. (2012) administered 
8 mmol nitrate per day for 6 days subsequently 
demonstrating a 5 % reduction in the VO 2  cost of 
60 min of steady cycling and a 2 % increase in 
10 km time-trial performance expressed as time 
to complete the simulated race, as well as 
 associated time-trial power output [ 78 ]. Similar 
effects have been observed for running and row-
ing [ 79 ,  80 ]. Though these early studies are 
promising, recent studies in highly trained endur-
ance athletes (VO 2max  60–70 ml/kg/min) do not 
appear to be efﬁ  cacious [ 78 ,  81 – 83 ]. While the 
reasons for the response differences are not fully 
clear, candidate mechanisms include the observa-
tions that elite athletes have higher NOS activity, 
increased nitrite concentrations, and greater mus-
cle capillarity and, hence, a potential lower O 2  
cost due to greater circulation [ 84 – 86 ].   
11.4     Immune System 
and Endurance Performance 
 The discussion surrounding endurance training 
and dietary interventions to improve immune 
function is a two-edged sword. On the one 
hand, exercise challenges the immune system, 
yet, given adequate recovery, strengthens and 
improves. Thus, it can be argued that dietary inter-
ventions aimed at suppressing the natural immune 
response to exercise may actually hamper exer-
cise-training response. On the other hand, endur-
ance athletes engaged in periods of very intense 
training run the risk of overtraining. During such 
a training period, transient signs and symptoms 
may occur including changes in the proﬁ  le of    Table 11.6    Nitrate content of select foods   
 Nitrate content 
(mg/100 g fresh 
weight)  Vegetable 
 Very high, >250  Beetroot, spinach, lettuce, 
arugula, celery, cress 
 High, 100–250  Fennel, leek, endive, parsley, 
carrot, Chinese cabbage, fennel 
 Moderate, 50–100  Cabbage, turnip, dill, mustard leaf 
 Low, 20–50  Broccoli, carrot, cauliﬂ  ower, 
pumpkin, cucumber, chicory 
 Very Low, <20     Asparagus, mushrooms, onion, 
pea, pepper, potato, sweet potato, 
tomato, Artichoke, asparagus, 
broad bean, eggplant, garlic, 
green bean, summer squash, 
watermelon 
  Adapted and modiﬁ  ed from Hord et al. (2009) [ 70 ]  11 Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes

266
mood state (POMS) where tension, depression, 
anger, fatigue, and confusion may be present. 
Other signs include depleted muscle glycogen 
stores, increased resting heart rate, increased cor-
tisol secretion, decreased appetite, sleep distur-
bances, head colds, and immunosuppression. 
 Most of the symptoms that result from over-
training, collectively referred to as overtraining 
syndrome, are subjective and identiﬁ  able only 
after the individual’s performance has suffered. 
Unfortunately, these symptoms can be highly 
individualized, which can make it difﬁ  cult for 
athletes, trainers, and coaches to recognize that 
overtraining brings on performance decrements. 
The ﬁ  rst indication of overtraining syndrome is a 
decline in physical performance. The athlete can 
sense a loss in muscle strength, coordination, and 
maximal working capacity. 
 Unfortunately, one of the most serious conse-
quences of overtraining is the negative effect it 
has on the body’s immune system. Recent studies 
show that excessive training suppresses normal 
immune function, increasing the overtrained 
 athlete’s susceptibility to infections [ 87 ,  88 ]. 
Numerous studies show that short bouts of 
intense exercise can temporarily impair the 
immune response, and successive days of heavy 
training can amplify this suppression [ 89 ]. In 
these cases, supplementation may help attenuate 
the immunosuppression typically seen with 
overtraining. 
 A ﬁ rst line of defense is to insure that the ath-
lete consumes adequate calories. Endurance ath-
letes maintaining heavy volume training often do 
not consume enough calories to keep up with 
energy demands because of the suppressive effect 
exercise can have on the appetite [ 90 ]. This point 
can be especially concerning for endurance ath-
letes engaged in prolonged training or competi-
tion sessions on the same or successive days. 
Multiple training sessions on the same day have 
now become the norm more than the exception 
for the elite endurance athlete owing to the ever- 
increasing level of competition and pressure to 
perform at optimal levels. Although it is unlikely 
that muscle glycogen stores can be completely 
resynthesized within a few hours by nutritional 
supplementation alone, it would behoove all endurance athletes to maximize the rate of muscle 
glycogen storage after exercise. This ultimately 
results in faster recovery from training, possibly 
allowing a greater training volume [ 91 ]. 
11.4.1     Carbohydrate and Protein 
 To demonstrate the importance of nutrient tim-
ing, Flakoll et al. provided a placebo, carbohy-
drate, or carbohydrate/protein supplement to 
U.S. Marine recruits immediately after exercise 
during 54 days of basic training to test the long- 
term impact of post-exercise carbohydrate/pro-
tein supplementation on variables such as health, 
muscle soreness, and function [ 92 ]. Compared to 
the placebo and carbohydrate groups, the com-
bined carbohydrate/protein group had 33 % fewer 
total medical visits, 28 % fewer visits due to bac-
terial/viral infections, 37 % fewer visits due to 
muscle and joint problems, and 83 % fewer due 
to heat exhaustion. Muscle soreness was also 
reduced immediately after exercise by the carbo-
hydrate/protein supplement. The authors postu-
lated that post-exercise carbohydrate/protein 
supplementation not only enhances muscle pro-
tein deposition but also improves overall health, 
muscle soreness, and tissue hydration during pro-
longed intense exercise training.  
11.4.2     Colostrum 
 Several ergogenic aids have been reported to aid 
the immune system. Colostrum is a form of milk 
produced by the mammary glands in late preg-
nancy and the few days after giving birth. 
Colostrum for dietary supplements is usually 
derived from bovine sources and contains various 
immunoglobulins (also called antibodies) and 
antimicrobial factors (i.e., lactoferrin, lactoper-
oxidase, lysozyme) as well as insulin-like growth 
factors (e.g., IGF-I, IGF-II). Bovine colostrum is 
among the highest quality sources of protein; 
however, it can be expensive. 
 The most prevalent claims for dietary supple-
ments containing colostrum are in the area of 
generalized immune function and improved C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

267
recovery from intense exercise. One study exam-
ined the effects of consuming colostrum (60 g/
day) or placebo (whey protein) during an 8-week 
running program, running three times a week for 
45 min per session [ 93 ]. Participants conducted 
two treadmill runs to exhaustion, with 20 min of 
rest between runs, at baseline and 4 and 8 weeks 
into the study. No differences existed in treadmill 
running performance at baseline, and at week 
four, both groups had similar improvements in 
running performance. At week 8, however, the 
colostrum group ran signiﬁ  cantly farther and did 
more work than the placebo group during the 
treadmill test. In addition, the colostrum supple-
mented group exhibited lower serum creatine 
kinase (CK) levels. CK is a muscle cell enzyme 
that some scientists believe can be used as a 
marker of muscle cell damage. High CK levels 
often indicate that signiﬁ  cant muscle damage has 
occurred. However, some scientists believe that if 
CK levels remain normal, the athlete has experi-
enced little muscle trauma [ 93 ,  94 ]. 
 Another study examined rowing performance 
in a group of elite female rowers. Eight rowers 
completed a 9-week training program while con-
suming either colostrum (60 g/day) or whey pro-
tein. By week 9, rowers consuming colostrum 
had greater increases in the distance covered and 
work done than the whey protein group [ 95 ]. 
Additional studies on bovine colostrum consump-
tion suggest that it can deliver some generalized 
anti-inﬂ  ammatory beneﬁ  ts and help prevent and 
treat the gastric injury associated with nonsteroi-
dal anti-inﬂ  ammatory drugs [ 96 – 98 ].  
11.4.3     Glutamine 
 Glutamine is another supplement popular in ath-
letic populations today. It is the most abundant 
amino acid in the body, comprising approxi-
mately half of the free amino acids in the blood 
and muscle. Glutamine is a nonessential gluco-
genic amino acid and an anaplerotic precursor 
that has been shown to be a vital fuel for a variety 
of cells of the immune system [ 99 ]. In skeletal 
muscle, glutamine has an inhibitory role on prote-
olysis and branched-chain amino acid catabolism. Recent evidence has placed emphasis on gluta-
mine as a positive component of immune function 
[ 99 ,  100 ]. 
 Glutamine has two main functions in the body: 
It is a precursor in the synthesis of other amino 
acids, and it converts to glucose for energy. Cells 
of the immune system, small intestine, and kidney 
are the major consumers of glutamine, making 
“immune boosting” and “immune maintenance” 
claims for glutamine supplements quite common. 
In addition, there are claims for glutamine supple-
ments in maintaining muscle mass, reducing post-
exercise catabolism (muscle tissue breakdown), 
and accelerating recovery from intense exercise. 
Intense exercise training often exhibited by the 
endurance athlete results in a drop in plasma glu-
tamine levels. Chronically low glutamine levels 
have been implicated as a possible contributing 
factor for athletic overtraining syndrome as well 
as the transient immunosuppression and increased 
risk of infections that typically affect competitive 
athletes during intense training and competition. 
Under conditions of metabolic stress, the body’s 
need for glutamine may become conditionally 
essential, meaning that the body cannot produce 
adequate levels and a dietary source is required 
to prevent catabolism of skeletal muscle, the 
 primary source of stored glutamine in the body. 
 A signiﬁ  cant body of scientiﬁ  c literature sup-
ports the beneﬁ  cial effects of glutamine supple-
mentation in maintaining muscle mass and 
immune system function in critically ill patients 
and in those recovering from extensive burns and 
major surgery [ 101 ]. When plasma glutamine 
levels fall, skeletal muscles may enter a state of 
catabolism in which muscle protein is degraded 
to provide free glutamine for the rest of the body. 
Because skeletal muscle is the major source of 
glutamine (other than the diet), prolonged deﬁ  cits 
in plasma glutamine can lead to a signiﬁ  cant loss 
of skeletal muscle protein and muscle mass. 
Postsurgical deposition of collagen (a marker for 
wound healing) can be enhanced by amino acid 
supplementation containing 14 g of glutamine, 
whereas a lower dose of mixed amino acids con-
taining glutamine (2.9 g) provides no change in 
athletic performance or on adaptations to cycling 
training [ 102 ,  103 ]. 11 Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes

268
 Studies have also been conducted on glutamine 
supplementation in athletes, and a strong rationale 
exists for the efﬁ  cacy of glutamine supplements in 
athletic populations. One study found that athletes 
who consumed glutamine immediately and 2 h 
after running a marathon or ultramarathon 
reported fewer infections than a placebo group 
[ 104 ]. The levels of infection were lowest in the 
middle-distance runners and highest in the run-
ners after a marathon or ultramarathon. Glutamine 
supplements have also been shown to play a role 
in counteracting the catabolic effects of stress hor-
mones, such as cortisol, which are typically ele-
vated by strenuous exercise. Under conditions of 
stress-induced protein wasting in adults and chil-
dren, including burns, surgery, and some forms of 
cancer, glutamine supplementation has been asso-
ciated with reduced protein breakdown, enhanced 
lymphocyte function, reduced gut permeability, 
and reduced infections [ 16 ,  105 – 107 ].   
11.5     Conclusion 
 Proper training, maintaining a positive energy 
balance, and utilizing effective nutritional sup-
plements form the foundation for optimal perfor-
mance. Training for the endurance athlete should 
be based on proper utilization of the principles of 
training, depending on individual goals and the 
training season (preseason, in-season, postsea-
son). The nutritional base should focus on an 
everyday diet that emphasizes a combination of 
all the nutritional ergogenic aids. The types of 
macronutrients and micronutrients selected and 
the timing of their use are of utmost importance 
for developing a well-reﬁ  ned everyday diet. The 
use of nutritional supplements that research has 
shown can help improve energy availability (e.g., 
sports drinks, carbohydrate) and/or promote 
recovery (e.g., carbohydrate, protein) can provide 
additional beneﬁ  ts in certain situations. In addi-
tion, a combination of effective pharmacological 
and physiological ergogenic supplements can 
further propel performance and support the 
immune system. Following these training and 
nutritional recommendations can serve as the 
foundation for a successful endurance athlete.  11.6     Practical Applications 
•     In preparation for training or competition, 
endurance athletes should strive for adequate 
hydration. While hydration is relatively straight 
forward, consideration may be given to ﬂ  uids 
containing moderate concentrations of carbo-
hydrate and sodium be ingested  regularly start-
ing several days before prolonged competition, 
such as marathon running.  
•   Endurance athletes should try to maximize 
their muscle glycogen stores prior to competi-
tion. This can be accomplished during the 
training taper by consuming 5–12 g carbohy-
drates/kg body weight daily depending on the 
athlete and length of the activity.  
•   Prior to competition, it is recommended that 
500–1,000 ml of ﬂ  uid be ingested. It may also 
be beneﬁ  cial to consume 200–300 g of carbo-
hydrate if supplementation during exercise is 
limited or not possible.  
•   During exercise, endurance athletes should try 
to fully replace ﬂ  uid losses that occur, although 
during hot and humid conditions this may be 
next to impossible.  
•   It is best to consume small volumes of ﬂ  uid 
frequently (150–250 ml every 15 min) rather 
than consume high volumes of ﬂ  uid occasion-
ally (e.g., 400 ml every 30 min).  
•   The endurance athlete should consider elec-
trolyte replacement, especially during periods 
of un-acclimatized activity involving high 
heat and humidity. Most sports drinks are for-
mulated to adequately to replace electrolyte 
losses due to sweating so preference should be 
given to taste rather than brand.  
•   To maximize endurance performance, 45–60 g 
of high-glycemic index carbohydrates should be 
ingested per hour during exercise. Carbohydrate 
solutions should not exceed 10 % if maintaining 
hydration is of importance.  
•   Carbohydrate ingestion during exercise should 
begin early to account for transit time from the 
gut. If ﬂ  uid replacement is of concern, it is 
recommended that supplementation with a 
dilute carbohydrate solution start as soon as 
possible and continued periodically through-
out exercise.  C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

269
•   The addition of small amounts of protein to a 
carbohydrate supplement (4:1 ratio) may also 
increase the effectiveness of the supplement.  
•   For rapid rehydration following exercise, it is 
important to start ﬂ  uid consumption early and 
replace at least 150 % of the ﬂ  uid lost during 
exercise with a dilute sodium solution.  
•   Requirements for the daily recovery of muscle 
glycogen depend on exercise intensity and 
duration. If the training duration is moderate 
and the intensity is low, 5–7 g of carbohydrate 
(CHO)/kg/day should be consumed. If the train-
ing duration is moderate and the intensity is 
high, 7–12 g CHO/kg/day should be consumed. 
If the training is extreme (4–6 h per day), 
10–12 g CHO/kg/day should be consumed.  
•   If there is only limited time to replenish the 
muscle glycogen stores, 1.0–1.2 g CHO/kg/h 
should be consumed at frequent intervals 
starting within the ﬁ  rst 30 min after exercise.  
•   The addition of protein to the carbohydrate 
supplement (4:1 ratio) promotes additional 
glycogen storage when carbohydrate intake is 
suboptimal or when frequent supplementation 
is not possible.  
•   Post-exercise supplements composed of carbo-
hydrate and protein have the added beneﬁ  t of 
limiting muscle tissue damage, stimulating pro-
tein accretion, and protecting the immune sys-
tem from exercise-induced immunosuppression.  
•   Several pharmacological and physiological 
ergogenic aids can further propel performance 
for the endurance athlete and should be con-
sidered depending on the individual goal of 
the athlete.  
•   There is some evidence that colostrum and 
glutamine support the immune system. Hence, 
the athlete should consider these supplements 
only during periods of very intense training.        
   References 
    1.    Bell DG, Jacobs I. Combined caffeine and ephedrine 
ingestion improves run times of Canadian Forces 
Warrior Test. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1999;70(4):
325–9.      2.    Blomstrand E, Hassmen P, Ekblom B, Newsholme 
EA. Administration of branched-chain amino acids 
during sustained exercise–effects on performance and 
on plasma concentration of some amino acids. Eur J 
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1991;63(2):83–8.  
   3.    Bridge CA, Jones MA. The effect of caffeine inges-
tion on 8 km run performance in a ﬁ  eld setting. 
J Sports Sci. 2006;24(4):433–9.  
      4.    Kreider RB, Miller GW, Williams MH, Somma CT, 
Nasser TA. Effects of phosphate loading on oxygen 
uptake, ventilatory anaerobic threshold, and run per-
formance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1990;22(2):
250–6.  
    5.    Coyle EF, Montain SJ. Beneﬁ  ts of ﬂ  uid replacement 
with carbohydrate during exercise. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 1992;24(9 Suppl):S324–30.  
    6.    Armstrong LE, Costill DL, Fink WJ. Inﬂ  uence of 
diuretic-induced dehydration on competitive run-
ning performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1985; 
17(4):456–61.  
    7.    Sutton JR, Bar-Or O. Thermal illness in fun running. 
Am Heart J. 1980;100(6 Pt 1):778–81.  
      8.    Coyle EF. Substrate utilization during exercise in 
active people. Am J Clin Nutr. 1995;61(4 Suppl):
968S–79.  
      9.    Krieder RB, Fry AC, O’Toole ML, editors. 
Overtraining in sport. Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics; 1998.  
     10.    Cade JR, Reese RH, Privette RM, Hommen NM, 
Rogers JL, Fregly MJ. Dietary intervention and 
training in swimmers. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol. 1991;63(3–4):210–5.  
    11.    Carli G, Bonifazi M, Lodi L, Lupo C, Martelli G, 
Viti A. Changes in the exercise-induced hormone 
response to branched chain amino acid administra-
tion. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1992;64(3):
272–7.  
    12.    Kreider RB. Dietary supplements and the promotion 
of muscle growth with resistance exercise. Sports 
Med. 1999;27(2):97–110.  
      13.    Komi PV . Strength and power in sport. Cambridge, 
MA: Blackwell Scientiﬁ  c; 1992.  
    14.    Coyle EF, Montain SJ. Carbohydrate and ﬂ  uid inges-
tion during exercise: are there trade-offs? Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 1992;24(6):671–8.  
    15.    Noakes TD, Myburgh KH, du Plessis J, Lang L, 
Lambert M, van der Riet C, et al. Metabolic rate, not 
percent dehydration, predicts rectal temperature in 
marathon runners. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1991; 
23(4):443–9.  
     16.    Klimberg VS, Nwokedi E, Hutchins LF, Pappas AA, 
Lang NP, Broadwater JR, et al. Glutamine facilitates 
chemotherapy while reducing toxicity. JPEN J 
Parenter Enteral Nutr. 1992;16(6 Suppl):83S–7.  
    17.    Bergstrom J, Hermansen L, Hultman E, Saltin 
B. Diet, muscle glycogen and physical performance. 
Acta Physiol Scand. 1967;71(2):140–50.  
     18.    Gastelu D, Hatﬁ  eld FC. Nutrition for maximum per-
formance. Garden City Park, NY: Avery; 1997.  11 Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes

270
     19.    Andersen LL, Tufekovic G, Zebis MK, Crameri 
RM, Verlaan G, Kjaer M, et al. The effect of resis-
tance training combined with timed ingestion of pro-
tein on muscle ﬁ  ber size and muscle strength. 
Metabolism. 2005;54(2):151–6.  
    20.    Ivy JL, Res PT, Sprague RC, Widzer MO. Effect of a 
carbohydrate-protein supplement on endurance per-
formance during exercise of varying intensity. Int J 
Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2003;13(3):382–95.  
    21.    Saunders MJ, Kane MD, Todd MK. Effects of a 
carbohydrate-protein beverage on cycling endurance 
and muscle damage. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2004; 
36(7):1233–8.  
    22.    Dangin M, Boirie Y , Garcia-Rodenas C, Gachon P, 
Fauquant J, Callier P, et al. The digestion rate of pro-
tein is an independent regulating factor of postpran-
dial protein retention. Am J Physiol Endocrinol 
Metab. 2001;280(2):E340–8.  
    23.    Ivy J, Portman R. The performance zone. North 
Bergen, NJ: Basic Health; 2004.  
      24.    Costill DL, Hargreaves M. Carbohydrate nutrition 
and fatigue. Sports Med. 1992;13(2):86–92.  
     25.    Ivy JL. Muscle glycogen synthesis before and after 
exercise. Sports Med. 1991;11(1):6–19.  
     26.    Ivy JL. Glycogen resynthesis after exercise: effect of 
carbohydrate intake. Int J Sports Med. 1998;19 
Suppl 2:S142–5.  
    27.    Haymond MW. Hypoglycemia in infants and chil-
dren. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 1989;18(1):
211–52.  
     28.    Blom PC, Hostmark AT, Vaage O, Kardel KR, 
Maehlum S. Effect of different post-exercise sugar 
diets on the rate of muscle glycogen synthesis. Med 
Sci Sports Exerc. 1987;19(5):491–6.  
    29.    Burke LM, Collier GR, Hargreaves M. Muscle gly-
cogen storage after prolonged exercise: effect of the 
glycemic index of carbohydrate feedings. J Appl 
Physiol. 1993;75(2):1019–23.  
     30.    Jentjens RL, van Loon LJ, Mann CH, Wagenmakers 
AJ, Jeukendrup AE. Addition of protein and amino 
acids to carbohydrates does not enhance postexer-
cise muscle glycogen synthesis. J Appl Physiol. 
2001;91(2):839–46.  
     31.    Tarnopolsky MA, Bosman M, Macdonald JR, 
Vandeputte D, Martin J, Roy BD. Postexercise 
protein- carbohydrate and carbohydrate supplements 
increase muscle glycogen in men and women. J Appl 
Physiol. 1997;83(6):1877–83.  
    32.    Evans WJ. Protein nutrition and resistance exercise. 
Can J Appl Physiol. 2001;26(Suppl):S141–52.  
    33.    Leiper JB, Aulin KP, Soderlund K. Improved gastric 
emptying rate in humans of a unique glucose poly-
mer with gel-forming properties. Scand J 
Gastroenterol. 2000;35(11):1143–9.  
    34.    Piehl Aulin K, Soderlund K, Hultman E. Muscle gly-
cogen resynthesis rate in humans after supplementa-
tion of drinks containing carbohydrates with low and 
high molecular masses. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2000; 
81(4):346–51.      35.    Rowlands DS, Clarke J. Lower oxidation of a high 
molecular weight glucose polymer vs. glucose 
 during cycling. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 
2011;36(2):298–306.  
    36.    Rowlands DS, Wallis GA, Shaw C, Jentjens RL, 
Jeukendrup AE. Glucose polymer molecular weight 
does not affect exogenous carbohydrate oxidation. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2005;37(9):1510–6.  
    37.    Ivy JL, Katz AL, Cutler CL, Sherman WM, Coyle 
EF. Muscle glycogen synthesis after exercise: effect 
of time of carbohydrate ingestion. J Appl Physiol. 
1988;64(4):1480–5.  
    38.    Garetto LP, Richter EA, Goodman MN, Ruderman 
NB. Enhanced muscle glucose metabolism after 
exercise in the rat: the two phases. Am J Physiol. 
1984;246(6 Pt 1):E471–5.  
     39.    Miller SL, Tipton KD, Chinkes DL, Wolf SE, Wolfe 
RR. Independent and combined effects of amino 
acids and glucose after resistance exercise. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2003;35(3):449–55.  
          40.    Williams MH. The ergogenic edge. Champaign, IL: 
Human kinetics; 1998.  
     41.    Blomstrand E, Celsing F, Newsholme EA. Changes 
in plasma concentrations of aromatic and branched- 
chain amino acids during sustained exercise in man 
and their possible role in fatigue. Acta Physiol 
Scand. 1988;133(1):115–21.  
    42.    Castell LM, Yamamoto T, Phoenix J, Newsholme 
EA. The role of tryptophan in fatigue in different 
conditions of stress. Adv Exp Med Biol. 
1999;467:697–704.  
     43.    Davis JM, Bailey SP, Woods JA, Galiano FJ, 
Hamilton MT, Bartoli WP. Effects of carbohy-
drate feedings on plasma free tryptophan and 
branched- chain amino acids during prolonged 
cycling. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1992;
65(6):513–9.  
    44.    Hassmen P, Blomstrand E, Ekblom B, Newsholme 
EA. Branched-chain amino acid supplementation 
during 30-km competitive run: mood and cognitive 
performance. Nutrition. 1994;10(5):405–10.  
    45.    Tanaka H, West KA, Duncan GE, Bassett Jr 
DR. Changes in plasma tryptophan/branched chain 
amino acid ratio in responses to training volume 
variation. Int J Sports Med. 1997;18(4):270–5.  
     46.    Talbott SM, Hughes K. The health professionals 
guide to dietary supplements. Philadelphia: 
Lippincott, William & Wilkens; 2007.  
    47.    Gastmann UA, Lehmann MJ. Overtraining and the 
BCAA hypothesis. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1998;
30(7):1173–8.  
    48.    van Hall G, Raaymakers JS, Saris WH, Wagenmakers 
AJ. Ingestion of branched-chain amino acids and 
tryptophan during sustained exercise in man: failure 
to affect performance. J Physiol. 1995;486(Pt 
3):789–94.  
    49.    Costill DL, Dalsky GP, Fink WJ. Effects of caffeine 
ingestion on metabolism and exercise performance. 
Med Sci Sports. 1978;10(3):155–8.  C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

271
    50.    Erickson MA, Schwarzkopf RJ, McKenzie 
RD. Effects of caffeine, fructose, and glucose inges-
tion on muscle glycogen utilization during exercise. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1987;19(6):579–83.  
    51.    Spriet LL, MacLean DA, Dyck DJ, Hultman E, 
Cederblad G, Graham TE. Caffeine ingestion and 
muscle metabolism during prolonged exercise in 
humans. Am J Physiol. 1992;262(6 Pt 1):E891–8.  
    52.    Schneiker KT, Bishop D, Dawson B, Hackett 
LP. Effects of caffeine on prolonged intermittent- 
sprint ability in team-sport athletes. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 2006;38(3):578–85.  
    53.    Namdar M, Koepﬂ  i P, Grathwohl R, Siegrist PT, 
Klainguti M, Schepis T, et al. Caffeine decreases 
exercise-induced myocardial ﬂ  ow reserve. J Am 
Coll Cardiol. 2006;47(2):405–10.  
     54.    Killer SC, Blannin AK, Jeukendrup AE. No evi-
dence of dehydration with moderate daily coffee 
intake: a counterbalanced cross-over study in a free- 
living population. PLoS One. 2014;9(1), e84154.  
    55.    Jimenez C, Melin B, Koulmann N, Allevard AM, 
Launay JC, Savourey G. Plasma volume changes 
during and after acute variations of body hydration 
level in humans. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 
1999;80(1):1–8.  
     56.    Wagner DR. Hyperhydrating with glycerol: implica-
tions for athletic performance. J Am Diet Assoc. 
1999;99(2):207–12.  
    57.    Lyons TP, Riedesel ML, Meuli LE, Chick 
TW. Effects of glycerol-induced hyperhydration 
prior to exercise in the heat on sweating and core 
temperature. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1990;22(4):
477–83.  
     58.    Montner P, Stark DM, Riedesel ML, Murata G, 
Robergs R, Timms M, et al. Pre-exercise glycerol 
hydration improves cycling endurance time. Int J 
Sports Med. 1996;17(1):27–33.  
    59.    Arnall DA, Goforth Jr HW. Failure to reduce body 
water loss in cold-water immersion by glycerol 
ingestion. Undersea Hyperb Med. 1993;20(4):
309–20.  
    60.   Earnest CP. Effect of acute creatine monohydrate 
ingestion on anaerobic capacity. Kinesiology. 
1997;141.  
    61.    Earnest CP, Almada AL, Mitchell TL. Effect of cre-
atine monohydrate ingestion on intermediate length 
anaerobic treadmill running to exhaustion. J Strength 
Cond Res. 1997;4:234–8.  
    62.    Williams MH, Kreider R, Branch JD. Creatine: the 
power supplement (p 15). Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics; 1999.  
    63.    Harris RC, Soderlund K, Hultman E. Elevation of 
creatine in resting and exercised muscle of normal 
subjects by creatine supplementation. Clin Sci. 
1992;83(3):367–74.  
    64.    Smith JC, Stephens DP, Hall EL, Jackson AW, 
Earnest CP. Effect of oral creatine ingestion on 
parameters of the work rate-time relationship and 
time to exhaustion in high-intensity cycling. Eur J 
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1998;77(4):360–5.      65.    Blumenthal M, Busse WR, Goldberg A, Gruenwald 
J, Hall T, Riggins CW, Rister RS, editors. The com-
plete commission E monographs: therapeutic guide 
to herbal medicines. Boston, MA: Integrative 
Medicine Communications; 1998.  
    66.    Stout J, Eckerson J, Ebersole K, Moore G, Perry S, 
Housh T, et al. Effect of creatine loading on neuro-
muscular fatigue threshold. J Appl Physiol. 
2000;88(1):109–12.  
    67.    Bangsbo J, Gollnick PD, Graham TE, Juel C, Kiens 
B, Mizuno M, et al. Anaerobic energy production 
and O2 deﬁ  cit-debt relationship during exhaustive 
exercise in humans. J Physiol. 1990;422:539–59.  
    68.    Wallimann T, Wyss M, Brdiczka D, Nicolay K, 
Eppenberger HM. Intracellular compartmentation, 
structure and function of creatine kinase isoenzymes 
in tissues with high and ﬂ  uctuating energy demands: 
the ‘phosphocreatine circuit’ for cellular energy 
homeostasis. Biochem J. 1992;281(Pt 1):21–40.  
     69.    Cade R, Conte M, Zauner C, Mars D, Peterson J, 
Lunne D, et al. Effects of phosphate loading on 
2,3-diphosphoglycerate and maximal oxygen 
uptake. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1984;16(3):263–8.  
     70.    Hord NG, Tang Y , Bryan NS. Food sources of 
nitrates and nitrites: the physiologic context for 
potential health beneﬁ  ts. Am J Clin Nutr. 2009;90(1):
1–10.  
    71.    Webb AJ, Patel N, Loukogeorgakis S, Okorie M, 
Aboud Z, Misra S, et al. Acute blood pressure lower-
ing, vasoprotective, and antiplatelet properties of 
dietary nitrate via bioconversion to nitrite. 
Hypertension. 2008;51(3):784–90.  
    72.    Shiva S, Huang Z, Grubina R, Sun J, Ringwood LA, 
MacArthur PH, et al. Deoxymyoglobin is a nitrite 
reductase that generates nitric oxide and regulates 
mitochondrial respiration. Circ Res. 2007;100(5):
654–61.  
    73.    Stamler JS, Meissner G. Physiology of nitric oxide 
in skeletal muscle. Physiol Rev. 2001;81(1):209–37.  
    74.    Bailey SJ, Winyard P, Vanhatalo A, Blackwell JR, 
Dimenna FJ, Wilkerson DP, et al. Dietary nitrate 
supplementation reduces the O2 cost of low- intensity 
exercise and enhances tolerance to high-intensity 
exercise in humans. J Appl Physiol. 2009;107(4):
1144–55.  
    75.    Earnest CP, Johannsen NM, Swift DL, Gillison FB, 
Mikus CR, Lucia A, et al. Aerobic and strength 
training in concomitant metabolic syndrome and 
type 2 diabetes. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2014;46(7):
1293–301.  
    76.    Larsen FJ, Weitzberg E, Lundberg JO, Ekblom 
B. Effects of dietary nitrate on oxygen cost during 
exercise. Acta Physiol. 2007;191(1):59–66.  
    77.    Santalla A, Earnest CP, Marroyo JA, Lucia A. The 
Tour de France: an updated physiological review. Int 
J Sports Physiol Perform. 2012;7(3):200–9.  
     78.    Cermak NM, Gibala MJ, van Loon LJ. Nitrate sup-
plementation’s improvement of 10-km time-trial 
performance in trained cyclists. Int J Sport Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2012;22(1):64–71.  11 Nutritional Supplements for Endurance Athletes

272
    79.    Bond H, Morton L, Braakhuis AJ. Dietary nitrate 
supplementation improves rowing performance in 
well-trained rowers. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2012;22(4):251–6.  
    80.    Murphy M, Eliot K, Heuertz RM, Weiss E. Whole 
beetroot consumption acutely improves running per-
formance. J Acad Nutr Diet. 2012;112(4):548–52.  
    81.    Bescos R, Ferrer-Roca V , Galilea PA, Roig A, 
Drobnic F, Sureda A, et al. Sodium nitrate supple-
mentation does not enhance performance of endur-
ance athletes. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2012;
44(12):2400–9.  
   82.    Peacock O, Tjonna AE, James P, Wisloff U, Welde 
B, Bohlke N, et al. Dietary nitrate does not enhance 
running performance in elite cross-country skiers. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2012;44(11):2213–9.  
    83.    Wilkerson DP, Hayward GM, Bailey SJ, Vanhatalo 
A, Blackwell JR, Jones AM. Inﬂ  uence of acute 
dietary nitrate supplementation on 50 mile time trial 
performance in well-trained cyclists. Eur J Appl 
Physiol. 2012;112(12):4127–34.  
    84.    Jensen L, Bangsbo J, Hellsten Y . Effect of high 
intensity training on capillarization and presence of 
angiogenic factors in human skeletal muscle. J 
Physiol. 2004;557(Pt 2):571–82.  
   85.    McConell GK, Bradley SJ, Stephens TJ, Canny BJ, 
Kingwell BA, Lee-Young RS. Skeletal muscle 
nNOS mu protein content is increased by exercise 
training in humans. Am J Physiol Regul Integr 
Comp Physiol. 2007;293(2):R821–8.  
    86.    Poveda JJ, Riestra A, Salas E, Cagigas ML, 
Lopez- Somoza C, Amado JA, et al. Contribution of 
nitric oxide to exercise-induced changes in healthy 
volunteers: effects of acute exercise and long-term 
physical training. Eur J Clin Invest. 1997;27(11):
967–71.  
    87.    Mackinnon LT. Exercise and natural killer cells. What 
is the relationship? Sports Med. 1989;7(3):141–9.  
    88.    McCarthy DA, Dale MM. The leucocytosis of exer-
cise. A review and model. Sports Med. 1988;6(6):
333–63.  
    89.    Brahmi Z, Bray RA, Abrams SI. Evidence for an 
early calcium-independent event in the activation of 
the human natural killer cell cytolytic mechanism. J 
Immunol. 1985;135(6):4108–13.  
    90.    Berning JR. Energy intake, diet and muscle wasting. 
In: Kreider RB, Fry AC, O’Toole ML, editors. 
Overtraining in sport. Champaign, IL: Human 
Kinetics; 1998.  
    91.    Haff GG, Lehmkuhl MJ, McCoy LB, Stone 
MH. Carbohydrate supplementation and resistance 
training. J Strength Cond Res. 2003;17(1):187–96.  
    92.    Flakoll PJ, Judy T, Flinn K, Carr C, Flinn 
S. Postexercise protein supplementation improves 
health and muscle soreness during basic military 
training in Marine recruits. J Appl Physiol. 
2004;96(3):951–6.  
     93.    Buckley JD, Abbott MJ, Brinkworth GD, Whyte 
PB. Bovine colostrum supplementation during endurance running training improves recovery, but 
not performance. J Sci Med Sport. 2002;5(2):65–79.  
    94.    Buckley JD. Bovine colostrum: Does it improve ath-
letic performance? Nutrition. 2002;18(9):776–7.  
    95.    Brinkworth GD, Buckley JD, Bourdon PC, Gulbin 
JP, David A. Oral bovine colostrum supplementation 
enhances buffer capacity but not rowing perfor-
mance in elite female rowers. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc 
Metab. 2002;12(3):349–65.  
    96.    Bolke E, Jehle PM, Hausmann F, Daubler A, 
Wiedeck H, Steinbach G, et al. Preoperative oral 
application of immunoglobulin-enriched colostrum 
milk and mediator response during abdominal sur-
gery. Shock. 2002;17(1):9–12.  
   97.    Khan Z, Macdonald C, Wicks AC, Holt MP, Floyd 
D, Ghosh S, et al. Use of the ‘nutriceutical’, bovine 
colostrum, for the treatment of distal colitis: results 
from an initial study. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 
2002;16(11):1917–22.  
    98.    Playford RJ, MacDonald CE, Calnan DP, Floyd DN, 
Podas T, Johnson W, et al. Co-administration of the 
health food supplement, bovine colostrum, reduces 
the acute non-steroidal anti-inﬂ  ammatory drug- 
induced increase in intestinal permeability. Clin Sci. 
2001;100(6):627–33.  
     99.    Ardawi MS, Newsholme EA. Metabolism in lym-
phocytes and its importance in the immune response. 
Essays Biochem. 1985;21:1–44.  
    100.    Ardawi MS, Newsholme EA. Glutamine metabo-
lism in lymphocytes of the rat. Biochem J. 1983;
212(3):835–42.  
    101.    Carli F, Webster J, Ramachandra V , Pearson M, Read 
M, Ford GC, et al. Aspects of protein metabolism 
after elective surgery in patients receiving constant 
nutritional support. Clin Sci. 1990;78(6):621–8.  
    102.    Vukovich MD, Sharp RL, Kesl LD, Schaulis DL, 
King DS. Effects of a low-dose amino acid supple-
ment on adaptations to cycling training in untrained 
individuals. Int J Sport Nutr. 1997;7(4):298–309.  
    103.    Williams JZ, Abumrad N, Barbul A. Effect of a spe-
cialized amino acid mixture on human collagen 
deposition. Ann Surg. 2002;236(3):369–74. discus-
sion 74–5.  
    104.    Castell LM, Poortmans JR, Newsholme EA. Does 
glutamine have a role in reducing infections in ath-
letes? Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1996; 
73(5):488–90.  
    105.    Barbosa E, Moreira EA, Goes JE, Faintuch J. Pilot 
study with a glutamine-supplemented enteral for-
mula in critically ill infants. Revista do Hospital das 
Clinicas. 1999;54(1):21–4.  
   106.    des Robert C, Le Bacquer O, Piloquet H, Roze JC, 
Darmaun D. Acute effects of intravenous glutamine 
supplementation on protein metabolism in very low 
birth weight infants: a stable isotope study. Pediatr 
Res. 2002;51(1):87–93.  
    107.    Yoshida S, Kaibara A, Ishibashi N, Shirouzu 
K. Glutamine supplementation in cancer patients. 
Nutrition. 2001;17(9):766–8.      C.P. Earnest and C. Rasmussen

273
© Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_12Nutritional Supplements 
to Enhance Recovery
Tim N. Ziegenfuss, Jamie  Landis, 
Darryn  Willoughby, and  Mike  Greenwood
Abstract
The ability to recover from intense exercise often separates good athletes 
from great ones. In the past, “recovery” often simply included rest, thera -
peutic modalities (e.g., cryotherapy, thermotherapy, massage, hydration 
therapy, stretching protocols, myofascial release), and meeting basic nutri -
tional needs for fluid and energy replenishment. Today, athletes have a 
number of additional options to help them recover from high-intensity 
training, one of which includes the judicious use of dietary supplements. 
This chapter briefly reviews nutritional strategies that have a strong 
theoretical background for enhancing rehydration/electrolyte balance, 
replenishing energy reserves, minimizing oxidative damage, and stimulating 
muscle repair after training regiments are complete.
Keywords
Rehydration•Electrolyte•Antioxidant•Essentialaminoacids• l-Carnitine• 
Creatine
12.1   Exercise Recovery
Recovery from exercise is a dynamic process 
that includes the restoration of body fluids and 
electrolyte balance, replenishment of energy 
stores, and repair of damaged tissues. Some 
aspects of these processes take a few minutes, 
and others may take days. The ability to continue 
exercising or competing day after day may be 
limited by how quickly one’s muscles recover 
after an initial exertion. In general, the more 
severe the previous exercise stress, the longer 
and more involved are the body’s recovery efforts. T.N. Ziegenfuss, PhD, CSCS, FISSN ( *) 
The Center for Applied Health Sciences,  
4302 Allen Road, Ste. 120, Stow, OH 44224, USA
e-mail: tz@appliedhealthsciences.org  
J. Landis, MD, PhD, CSCS 
Department of Biology, Lakeland Community 
College, Kirkland, OH, USA 
D. Willoughby, PhD, FACSM, FISSN 
Department of Health, Human Performance,  
and Recreation, Baylor University, Waco, TX, USA 
M. Greenwood, PhD, FISSN, FNSCA, FACSM, 
RSCC *D, CSCS *D 
Department of Health and Kinesiology, Texas A & M 
University, College Station, TX, USA12

274
By eating a nutrient-  dense, well-balanced diet 
that includes adequate fluid intake, the body 
can generally fully recover from any single bout 
of exercise if given enough time while also con -
sidering the key aspect of individual genetic pre -
disposition. However, by taking proactive steps 
during the pre- and/or postexercise periods, it is 
possible to speed the body’s recovery from indi -
vidual bouts while sustaining maximal training 
and improving exercise performance.
The physical cost of exercise is intimately tied 
to the intrinsic variables of intensity, duration, and 
mode. They effectively form the basis of catego -
rizing the stresses on the body that occur during 
exercise. Consideration of each of the variables 
requires knowledge of anatomy (extent of muscle 
mass involved), the kinesiology involved (type of 
muscle actions), and physiology (e.g., metabolic 
demands of exercise, hormonal responses to 
exercise). Other considerations include the ages 
of the individuals, their current diet, the timing of 
the exercise bout, their competitive status, train -
ing volume, environmental factors, and overall 
health status. The obvious consequence of the 
interplay between these factors is clear: distinct 
strategies for nutritionally enhancing recovery 
are necessary.
When carefully planned based on both the 
demands of the exercise and the needs of the ath -
lete, we believe that certain dietary supplements 
can help improve an athlete’s recovery from exer -
cise. This chapter provides some basic guidelines 
for an evidence-based approach to rational, safe, 
effective nutritional intervention as a means of 
enhancing exercise recovery.
12.2   Phases of  Recovery
To address and maximize the benefits of nutri -
tional support properly, two distinct phases of 
exercise recovery should be recognized: fast 
(partial) and slow (complete). Fast recovery 
occurs during the period of approximately 
30–45  min following an exercise bout in a con -
text where the body’s metabolic, cardiovascular, 
respiratory, and hormonal variables rapidly return 
to within pre-exercise values. In contrast, the slow phase of recovery can take several days and is 
only complete when the body maintains a height -
ened capacity to undertake an additional exercise 
stimulus.
From a nutritional perspective, the most 
important characteristics of the rapid phase of 
recovery involve the cellular transitions from a 
catabolic (breakdown and mobilization) state to 
one of anabolism (buildup and storage). In mus -
cle tissue especially, cellular processes shift 
toward the building of new proteins, the replen -
ishment of energy substrates, reestablishment of 
optimal fluid and electrolyte levels, and tissue 
repair. By taking the initiative and maximizing 
nutritional support during the fast phase of 
recovery, the complete recovery process is 
enhanced. Indeed, consider that although a 
number of recovery processes continue for a day 
(or even several days) following an intense bout 
of  exercise, the rate of recovery slows appreciably 
after the first few hours. For example, with no 
immediate (postexercise) nutritional support, 
muscle carbohydrate stores may require 24  h or 
more for complete restoration, and repair of 
eccentric contraction-  induced muscle damage may 
require several days. As a general rule, the more 
severe the exercise duration, intensity, and mode, 
the longer and more involved are the body’s 
recovery processes. Undertaking a second bout 
of exercise prior to full recovery complicates the 
recovery processes. As such, individuals under -
taking regular intense training benefit from 
careful dietary planning for optimal recovery 
and performance. In short, a well-designed nutri -
tional support program can ensure athletes of an 
advantage for both the rapid and slow phases of 
recovery.
12.3   Classification of  Recovery 
Supplements
Table  12.1 lists five classes of recovery supple -
ments: oral rehydration and electrolyte balance, 
replenishment of energy reserves, minimizing 
oxidative damage, muscle repair, and immune 
system support. The remaining sections provide 
an overview of supplements that may lend support 
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

275
in each of these strata. It should be recognized 
that full recovery from intense exercise is an inte -
grative process, and all of these strata overlap in 
many ways.
12.4   Rehydration
Fluid loss is inherent in exercise. Indeed, with 
prolonged activities such as running or cycling, 
athletes may lose 1–3 l of body water per hour.
These losses may in turn produce a dehydration-  
associated loss of body weight and impairment of 
cardiovascular and thermoregulatory homeosta -
sis [1]. The loss of vascular fluid volume may 
then result in intracellular water being drawn out 
of muscle cells [ 2], an obvious detriment to per -
formance. Clearly, although it is often overlooked 
as a postexercise dietary supplement or ergo -
genic, it is of the utmost importance that the 
appropriate fluid replacement volume be consid -
ered along with the attendant need of proper elec -
trolyte balance.Table 12.1  Classification of recovery supplements
Oral rehydration and electrolyte balance
•Traditional oral rehydration solutions are made
according to World Health Organization
guidelines for the prevention and treatment of 
dehydration during diarrhea or gastroenteritis.  
For these medical conditions, effective delivery  
of oral fluid replacement is best achieved by a 
solution that is low in carbohydrate (2  %, or 
2g/100ml) and provides electrolytes in
concentrations of sodium 50–80  mmol/l and 
potassium 10–30 mmol/l (e.g., Pedialyte®)
•Newer sports drinks have become available  
with a higher sodium content (~30  mmol/l)  
to help replace sodium lost in sweat
Replenishment of energy reserves
  Sports drinks
•Usually a carbohydrate-rich solution  
(6–8 % carbohydrate), containing mainly  
sodium (10–25 mmol/l) and potassium
(3–5 mmol/l). Drinks with additional  
electrolytes (calcium, chloride, magnesium, 
potassium) and micronutrients (chromium)  
are also available
  Sports gels
•A highly concentrated carbohydrate source
(65–70  %) in an easily consumed and quickly 
digested gel form
•Usually has substantially higher carbohydrate
concentration than sports drinks. Use with  
caution as idiosyncratic gastrointestinal  
distress may occur
•Some gels also contain other compounds, such as
medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) and small 
amounts of caffeine (~20–40  mg)
  Sports bars
•Compact source of carbohydrate and  
protein in a bar form. Generally low in both  
fat and fiber, although there are exceptions.  
Some are fortified with micronutrients  
(typically containing about 25–50 % RDA  
per bar of various vitamins and minerals)
  Liquid meal supplements
•Carbohydrate-rich, moderate protein,  
low-fat powder (or liquid) for mixing  
with water or milk
•Generally intended to supply a balance of
macronutrients and micronutrients
Minimizing oxidative damage: antioxidants
•Classically, vitamins C and E as well as  
other micronutrients such as zinc and selenium.  
Newer additions include l-carnitine, extracts  
of certain fruits/vegetables, coQ10, and teasMuscle repair
  Whole protein and protein hydrolysates
•Whey (isolate and concentrate)
•Casein
•Egg
•Soy
Amino acids
•Essential amino acids
•Branched-chain amino acids (leucine, isoleucine,
valine)
•Glutamine
•Creatine
•Hydroxy beta-methylbutyrate (HMB)
  Carbohydrates
•See above
Immune system support
•Amino acids (glutamine)
•Vitamins (ascorbic acid, vitamin D)
•Plant extracts (Andrographis paniculata, ginseng,
ashwagandha)
•Omega-3 fats (from fish oil, krill oil)
RDA  recommended daily allowance
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

276
12.4.1   Water and  Sodium
The health benefits of plain water have often 
been touted and are not disputed here. However,
the use of plain water as a sport rehydration 
beverage may not be ideal under certain circum -
stances. For example, copious water ingestion 
may cause relative dilution of the serum sodium 
level [ 3], which in turn may cause a decrease in 
thirst sensation and an increase in urine output, 
stalling the rehydration process. A better option
for ensuring a proper plasma volume is to use a 
sodium/water solution [ 4]. In fact, it has been 
previously demonstrated that when adequate 
fluid is available, rehydration is achieved more 
rapidly when the solution sodium content (0.3–
0.7 g NaCl per liter of water) is greater than 
sodium lost via sweat [ 5, 6]. This level of rehy -
dration sodium is recommended by both the 
American College of Sports Medicine [ 7] and 
the National Athletic Trainers’ Association [ 8]. 
Potassium may also be added to the rehydration 
solution after exercising, although experimental 
evidence has not confirmed substantial improve -
ment in intracellular rehydration [ 9, 10].
Because of the combination of exercise-  
associated water losses and the expected increase 
in urine production during the postexercise con -
sumption period, it is generally recommended 
thatconsumptionof150 %ormoreoftheweight
lost may be required to achieve euhydration 
within the short-term postexercise period (i.e., 
6 h) [5, 11, 12]. With such impressive fluid losses 
and the need for considerable fluid consumption, 
the palatability of a fluid replacement drink is of 
no small concern. In fact, research suggests that 
drinks with a slight citrus taste are especially 
effective at preventing the quenched sensation 
following ingestion of water alone [ 13]. It is no 
coincidence, then, that the popular sports drinks 
in the American marketplace (e.g., Gatorade,
Powerade, Accelerade) all offer a citrus flavor.
However, those popular beverages contain
sodium concentrations (0.4–0.5  g NaCl per liter 
of water) at the low end of that recommended for 
rapid and complete restoration: 0.3–0.7  g NaCl 
per liter of water. When rapid rehydration is the 
primary goal during the postexercise period, a better choice may be found in a number of 
specially concentrated solutions (e.g., Endurox
R4, Powerbar Recovery, HEED, etc.). Perhaps
also worthy of consideration are the clinical oral 
rehydration fluids (used to treat diarrhea and 
dehydration), although a potential drawback of 
these more concentrated saline solutions is an 
unpalatable taste, which could affect the total 
volume consumed. It is also possible to achieve 
the recommended sodium intake by consuming 
water with food. Because food consumption 
slows gastric emptying, the rehydration process 
is similarly slowed.
In summary, complete and rapid postexercise 
rehydration requires a special fluid intake plan. 
Consumption of 150 % of fluid losses allows
complete fluid restoration. To enhance the pro -
cess, a supply of palatable drinks should be 
made available after exercise. Flavored and 
lightly sweetened drinks are generally preferred 
and can contribute to achieving carbohydrate 
intake needs as well. The main drawback of com -
mercial (nonclinical) rehydration beverages lies 
intheirrelativelylowsodiumcontent.Asprevi -
ously noted, replacement of sodium lost in 
sweat is important for maximizing retention of 
ingested fluids. A sodium content equivalent to
0.3–0.7  g NaCl per liter water may be necessary 
for optimal rehydration.
12.4.2   Carbohydrate–Electrolyte 
Solutions
With the rise in consumption of carbohydrate-  
containing sports drinks has come increased 
scrutiny of their value to the exercising athlete. 
In particular, there were concerns regarding the 
potential for slowing the gastric emptying time. 
However, subsequent studies have demonstrated
that dilute (6–8  %) solutions of glucose, glucose 
polymers (maltodextrin), and other simple sug -
ars all have suitable gastric emptying character -
istics for the delivery of fluid and moderate 
amounts of carbohydrate substrate [ 14]. As pre -
viously noted, most widely available sports 
drinks provide a low level of sodium (0.3–0.7  g 
NaCl per liter of water) and thus may not be the 
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

277
ideal rehydration beverage (depending on the 
athlete’s needs) despite their carbohydrate value 
and palatability.
12.4.3   Glycerol
Glycerol (also called glycerine) is a three-carbon 
molecule that forms the structural backbone of 
triglycerides and phospholipids. It is technically 
a sugar alcohol, but it can be converted to glucose 
in the liver without a major change in plasma glu -
cose or insulin levels. Because of this conversion, 
the direct energy yield of glycerol is similar to 
that of glucose, although it is not a major energy 
source when carbohydrates are freely available. 
Glycerol is a common ingredient in many nutri -
tional bar products.
Glycerol has a somewhat unique physiologi -
cal role in terms of its ability to influence water 
balance. When glycerol is added to rehydration 
beverages, it blunts the natural decrease in antidi -
uretic hormone (ADH) release that occurs with
rehydration. Sustained ADH activity results in
greater retention of body fluids and, potentially, 
enhancement of postexercise rehydration and 
thermoregulation during exercise in hot, humid 
environments [ 15]. This property has not gone 
unnoticed clinically, and glycerol is commonly 
utilized in patients with glaucoma to reduce 
intraocular pressure.
The use of glycerol in postexercise rehydra -
tion supplements has demonstrated improved 
short-term hydration but not reliable improve -
ment in athletic performance [ 15–17]. However,
the dosage of glycerol is perhaps important, as 
some studies that utilized lowered amounts 
(0.5g/kg versus ~1.0 g/kg body weight) did not
improve rehydration [ 18].
In summary, the potential for glycerol-  
enhanced rehydration is best attempted at a dos -
age of 1 g/kg body weight with adequate water
ingestion as described in the previous section. It 
is considered a safe, effective supplement, and it 
has not been shown to elicit negative effects with 
regard to postexercise recovery or subsequent 
exercise performance [ 19].12.4.4   Fluid Balance in  American 
Football Players
12.4.4.1   David Chorba
American football players face some unique
challenges regarding thermoregulation during 
preseason training, particularly linemen with rel -
atively high body mass compared to that of other 
athletes. A small body surface area/body mass
ratio and above-average body fat percentage 
increase the metabolic load of exercise. These 
athletes are less able to dissipate heat, which is 
magnified by wearing up to 15 lb. of protective
gear.
Sweating rates are similar for football athletes 
and cross-country runners exercising in the same 
environmental conditions when adjusted for body 
size. However, longer practice durations, two-a-
day preseason sessions, and insulating equipment 
create a higher overall sweat production in foot -
ball players (>2  l/h and in some athletes >3  l/h) 
[12]. Daily fluid losses from sweating during 
two-a-day practices can average more than 9  l/
day,withsomeathleteslosingmorethan14 l/day
[12]. This amount of fluid loss requires 125–
150% replacement (during and after practice) to
account for urine losses that occur with fluid 
ingestion [ 20]. Such a large fluid intake can cause 
mild symptoms associated with hyponatremia 
(although rare in football) if too much plain water 
is ingested and dietary sodium intake is inade -
quate during preseason meals.
With such large fluid losses through sweating, 
the electrolyte balance must be considered in 
football athletes. Sodium losses from sweating 
range from 20 to 80  mmol/l [21] and have been 
documented up to 110 mmol/l in professional
football players [ 22]. Normally, sodium and 
chloride are reabsorbed by sweat glands after 
excretion. However, this ability does not increase
proportionately with the sweating rate, and the 
electrolyte concentration in sweat increases 
[23, 24].Aday’ssweatlossof9.4 lwithasodium
concentration of 50 mmol/l equates to >10 g of
sodium depletion [ 12]. Significant sodium deple -
tion can occur with excessive sweating, espe -
cially in individuals with poor aerobic conditioning 
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

278
and/or suboptimal heat acclimatization. Some 
football athletes are prone to large, acute sodium 
losses during sweating (5.1 g vs. 2.2 g during a
2.5-h practice) and despite consuming sodium-
containing fluids on the field are more likely to 
experience associated heat cramps [ 25]. These 
athletes may benefit from ingesting fluids with 
sodium in addition to making sure they consume 
sufficient dietary sodium (1.5 gday) [ 26] during 
meals.
Despite a significantly larger body mass and 
heat-trapping protective gear, collegiate football 
athletes during summer preseason two-a-day 
practices do not experience the continuous core 
temperature increases seen in distance runners 
training in the same environment [ 27]. Frequent 
breaks (averaging 71 s, documented for football
athletes) cause core temperature fluctuations that 
may provide the necessary recovery time to dis -
sipate heat. Despite a more intermittent nature of 
training, however, football athletes were found 
to be less well hydrated than their endurance-  
training counterparts. Distance runners may 
hydrate more frequently throughout the day in 
preparation for long runs without access to fluids; 
however, the intermittent nature of football 
practice should leave adequate opportunity for 
players to rehydrate.
It is imperative that football athletes properly 
acclimate to the environment and physical 
stresses imposed by intense preseason training 
in order to decrease the risk of adverse health 
events such as heat exhaustion and heat stroke. 
Acclimatization requires progressive adaptations
to the environment, the physical training, and the 
protective equipment worn by the athlete. In an 
effort to decrease the risk of heat-related injury, 
the National Collegiate Athletic Association
(NCAA)hasimplementedaheat-acclimatization
protocol during preseason training [ 28]. The pro -
tocol requires that protective equipment during 
practice begins with helmets only and progres -
sively increases to full pads. In this way, exercise 
intensity is also progressed, as more demanding 
activities usually require additional protective 
gear. In addition, exercise duration is progressed 
to two-a-day practices performed on alternate days, 
with at least 3  h of recovery time between ses -
sions.ThenewNCAAmodelhasbeenshowntoimprove exercise-heat tolerance and heat accli -
matization in Division I football players [ 29].An
added benefit of proper heat acclimatization is 
the improved ability to reabsorb sodium and 
chloride, resulting in a 50  % lower sweat sodium 
concentration for a given sweating rate [ 23].
Fluid losses greater than 2  % of body weight 
have been shown to impair cognitive/mental 
function and athletic (aerobic) performance in 
temperate to hot conditions [ 30–32], and losses 
greater than 3  % increase the risk of heat-related 
illness [ 8, 32]. Most individuals replace only half 
of the fluids lost during exercise voluntarily [ 33]. 
Therefore, it is important that all athletes engag -
ing in prolonged exercise in the heat are assessed 
for hydration status and follow a water replace -
ment schedule. Individual hydration protocols 
should be developed that consider the athlete’s 
sweat rate, sport dynamics, environmental fac -
tors, acclimatization state, exercise duration and 
intensity, and individual preferences [ 8, 32]. The 
American College of Sports Medicine and the
National Athletic Trainers’ Association provide
guidelines to assist in designing customized fluid 
replacement programs [ 8, 32].
Asimple,effectivemethodtoassesshydration
status involves tracking body weight before and 
afterpractices.Anathleteshouldbeweighedfirst
thing in the morning after voiding for 3 days con -
secutively (more days for women due to men -
strual cycle changes) to establish the baseline, 
euhydrated (normal) state [ 32]. General recom -
mendations to ensure appropriate hydration 
from the National Athletic Trainers’ Association
[8] include consuming 17–20 oz. of water or a
sportsdrink2–3 hbeforeexercisingand7–10 oz.
20 min prior to exercise. Fluid replacement dur -
ing exercise should attempt to match sweat and 
urine losses, with no more than 2  % total body 
weight loss. This generally equates to 7–10 oz.
every 10–20 min of exercise but is highly depen -
dent on the individual athlete, as described above. 
After exercise, athletes should be weighed (after
urination) and then consume 450 ml (15oz.)
for 125–150 % of body weight loss in pounds,
ideally within 2  h after exercise. The addition of 
0.3–0.7  g NaCl/l is acceptable to stimulate thirst 
and increase voluntary fluid intake for shorter 
sessions; it should also be considered during 
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

279
initial training days in hot weather, during exer -
cise lasting more than 4  h, and when inadequate 
access to meals is anticipated. For intense sessions 
or those lasting more than 45–60  min, consum -
ing a sports drink containing 6–8  % carbohydrate 
can speed replenishment of glycogen stores and 
delay fatigue, as well as contribute to the palat -
ability of the beverage.
12.4.5   Exercise-Associated 
Hyponatremia
12.4.5.1   Rita Chorba
AttheSouthAfricanIronmanTriathlon,anexpe -
rienced 34-year-old male ultramarathoner com -
pleting the race in just under 12.5 h was brought
to the medical tent near the finish line with mild 
confusion, sleepiness, and difficulty concentrat -
ing and maintaining conversation [ 34].Hishands
and face were swollen, and he complained of 
feeling ill. Testing revealed an absolute weight 
gain during the race of 3.8  kg (8.4  lb.), which, 
after consideration of fuel oxidation and fluid 
release during the race, approximates at least 
5kg(11lb.)excessfluid.Bloodanalysisrevealed
a serum [Na+] of 127 mmol/l, which was
decreasedfromabefore-racevalueof143 mmol/l.
The athlete was subsequently diagnosed with 
exercise-associated hyponatremia (EAH).
Despite medical management including 
sodium replacement, the athlete had initial diffi -
culty producing enough urine to decrease the 
fluid overload and required overnight hospitaliza -
tion until his serum [Na+] normalized and he had 
excreted 4.6 l of urine. Only then was the athlete
permitted to resume drinking fluids. It was later 
discovered that the athlete had ingested 750  ml 
fluid per hour during the cycling component 
(more than 6  h in duration), 750  ml early in the 
run, and then “as much as possible” throughout 
the remainder of the run, as he thought his ill 
feelings were signaling dehydration. This amount 
of fluid ingestion was contradictory to the brief -
ing given to all athletes before the race, where it 
was recommended that no more than 500–
800 ml/h be ingested during the race. In fact, 
these new recommendations resulted in only this 
one athlete being treated for hyponatremia in the South African Ironman (0.2 % of entrants),
comparedtopreviousracesexhibitingratesof18
and 27  % [2, 3] Studies of Ironman athletes 
have revealed an inverse relation between post-
race body mass and [Na+], as those who lost less 
weight during competition (or gained weight) 
had the lower plasma [Na+] [34–36].
Commonly known as water intoxication, 
EAH is a dilutional hyponatremia caused by
consuming too much plain water during periods 
of prolonged exercise [ 4]. Although drinking
excessive fluids normally stimulates urine pro -
duction, this mechanism is impaired during sus -
tained endurance exercise, increasing the 
potential for hyponatremia [ 37, 38]. EAH can
occur when excessive ADH is released, causing
fluid retention and maintaining decreased serum 
[Na+] with subsequent cell edema. Although
symptomatic EAH was previously described in
terms of sodium loss, more recent studies con -
firm significant fluid overload as the primary 
independent factor, with sodium loss playing a 
secondary role in the pathogenesis of the condi -
tion [ 34, 37, 39, 40].
Sodium loss through sweating combined with 
dilution of extracellular sodium due to excessive 
ingestion of hypotonic fluids (plain water) causes 
serum sodium concentrations to fall, as sodium is 
drawn into the unabsorbed water in the intestines. 
Whereas moderate loss or dilution (serum 
sodium<135mEq/l) can lead to headaches, con -
fusion, nausea, and muscle cramps, concentra -
tions below 125–130 mEq/l can create more
life-threatening situations [ 41–43].
Severely decreased serum sodium concentra -
tion creates a significant osmotic imbalance, 
causing water to rush into brain and lung cells. 
The subsequent swelling may cause seizures, 
coma, pulmonary edema, or death. A number of
factors lead to EAH [ 37].
Athlete related Event related
Low body mass index Prolonged exercise (>4  h of 
activity)
Female gender Extreme cold conditions
Slow performance pace, 
poor conditioningUnusually hot conditions
(continued)
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

280
Athlete related Event related
Race inexperience High availability of 
drinking fluids (frequent aid 
stations)
Excessive fluid intake 
behaviors
Weight gain during the 
event
Altered renal excretory 
capacity(useofNSAIDs 
or diuretics, renal 
disease)
Although continuous, high-intensity exercise 
for more than 1 h can deplete fluid and sodium 
levels, athletes at risk for hyponatremia most 
commonly include ultramarathoners and triath -
letes, as well as marathoners who take more than 
4 h to complete the race [ 44].
Previous recommendations for the prevention 
of EAH included drinking ad libitum (according 
tothirst)nomorethan400–600 ml/h(13–20 oz.), 
the lower limit for slower, lighter persons in cool 
weather, and the upper limit for faster, heavier 
athletes in warm weather [ 37, 45]. As stated pre -
viously, similar guidelines were employed in an 
Ironman Triathlon of significantly longer dura -
tion with a dramatically decreased incidence of 
hyponatremia [ 34]. That said, we do not promote 
strict adherence to the above fluid quantities as it 
is well known that athletes demonstrate a sub -
stantial interindividual variation in sweat rates 
and renal excretory capacity during exercise. The 
best approach is for athletes to drink according to 
their thirst levels before, during, and after exer -
cise. In addition, athletes should closely monitor 
their body weight during exercise, expect a ~2  % 
decrease under certain conditions, and never gain 
weight (due to fluid ingestion) during exercise. 
While not foolproof, having a drinking schedule 
prepared for various competitive situations (that 
have been tested in practice conditions) provides 
an effective strategy for reducing the incidence 
and severity of EAH.
Although it seems prudent to recommend 
increased sodium intake during prolonged exer -
cise, it might not be necessary and might not be effective in decreasing the risk of EAH. Recent 
guidelines by the Institute of Medicine suggest 
that the daily adequate intake of Na+(1.5g/day)
is appropriate for physically active people, con -
sidering that the sodium intake in a Western diet 
averages 2.3–4.7  g/day [ 26]. In another investi -
gation, during the South African Ironman
Triathlon [ 46], ingestion of an additional 3.6  g of 
sodium(15tablets,equalto9 lofGatorade)dur -
ing competition along with usual sports drinks 
and food was not necessary to preserve serum 
[Na+] despite more than 12 h of high-intensity 
activity, nor did supplementation affect any other 
performance, physiological, or psychological 
variables collected. The one exception was the 
athlete with hyponatremia described previously 
[34] who was part of the placebo group for the 
current study [ 34]. However, he was also the 
only athlete to demonstrate substantial weight 
gain during competition from overhydrating. It 
is postulated that during acute Na+ loss, contrac -
tion of the extracellular volume or Na+ release 
from intracellular stores may act to buffer Na+ 
loss until it is replenished during a subsequent 
meal [ 26]. Consumption of electrolyte-contain -
ing sports drinks may be able to decrease the 
severity of EAH [ 47], although not all studies 
have shown that their consumption prevents 
development of EAH in the presence of over -
drinking [ 48, 49]. This may be due to the fact 
that most electrolyte-containing sports drinks 
are hypotonic solutions, containing less than 
135mmol/lsodium,andcanthereforecontribute 
to further sodium dilution in the presence of 
fluid excess (see Fig.  12.1).
In summary, exercise-associated hyponatre -
mia is a condition of decreased serum sodium 
concentration occurring during or up to 24  h after 
prolonged endurance exercise and is most often 
associated with excessive fluid consumption. 
EAHcanleadtoseriousconsequences,including 
pulmonary and cerebral edema. Persons at great -
est risk, including deconditioned or race-  
inexperienced athletes participating in multi-hour 
events, are advised to drink according to thirst 
and to prepare race-day fluid replacement strate -
gies that mirror fluid losses measured under prac -
tice conditions.(continued)
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

281
12.4.6   What Are Electrolytes?
Electrolytes are minerals that become ions in
solution and acquire the capacity to conduct 
 electricity. Proper electrolyte balance in the body 
is essential for normal functioning of cells. Loss 
of body water and subsequent alterations in elec -
trolyte balance can impair cardiovascular and 
thermoregulatory function. In terms of exercise 
performance, the most important electrolytes are 
sodium, chloride, and potassium. Sodium is the 
primary positive ion (cation) in the extracellular 
fluid and helps regulate acid–base balance, nerve 
conduction, blood pressure, and muscle function. 
Chloride is the primary negative ion (anion) in 
the extracellular fluid and works in tandem with 
sodium to regulate nerve impulse conduction and 
body water balance. During exercise, the body 
loses fluids and electrolytes (mainly sodium and 
chloride) via sweat. The resulting decrease in 
blood volume increases the relative sodium and 
chloride concentrations in blood and triggers the 
thirst mechanism. Potassium is the primary cat -
ion in intracellular fluid and helps maintain elec -
trical activity in nerves, skeletal muscles, and the 
heart. Potassium also aids carbohydrate metabo -
lism by enhancing glucose transport and glyco -
gen storage. Finally, calcium and magnesium are 
cationic electrolytes that play important roles in the regulation of muscle contraction and enzymatic 
reactions. Because their losses in sweat are mini -
mal, they are usually not included in hydration 
solutions.
Generally, electrolyte replacement is not 
needed during short bouts of exercise, as sweat is 
approximately 99 % water and less than 1 %
electrolytes. Adequate water, in combination
with a nutrient-dense, well-balanced postexercise 
diet, can restore normal fluid and electrolyte lev -
els in the body. However, replacing electrolytes
may be beneficial during continuous activity of 
longer than 90  min, particularly in a hot, humid 
environment. Most research shows there is little 
evidence of physiological or physical perfor -
mance differences between consuming a carbo -
hydrate–electrolyte drink versus plain water 
during exercise lasting less than 1 h [32].
12.5   Muscle Fuel Energy
Animportantgoaloftheathlete’severydaydietis
to provide the muscle with substrates to fuel the 
training program and achieve optimal perfor -
mance, recovery, and long-term adaptation. 
Carbohydrate and fat constitute most of the exer -
cising muscle’s energy fuel, with protein typically 
playing a minor role. For example, even the leanest 
Fig. 12.1  Illustration of sodium dilution due to excess fluid levels
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

282
ofathletesstoreenoughfat(>100,000 kcal)tofuel
exercise, but by comparison the same athlete’s 
carbohydrate stores are limited (~2,500  kcal). 
It is important to recognize that the initial con -
centration of stored muscle carbohydrate can 
dictate performance in a variety of exercises. 
Therefore, the restoration of muscle energy fuels, 
particularly carbohydrate, is a principal concern 
for optimal recovery and subsequent exercise 
performance.
12.5.1   Carbohydrate
Skeletal muscle stores the simple carbohydrate 
glucose in highly branched glycogen granules. 
Stored glucose is then released during muscle 
contraction for both anaerobic and aerobic energy 
productions. Approximately 500 g of carbohy -
drate is stored in the muscle of an average-sized 
male with an additional 100 g stored in the liver
and available for release into the blood. Muscle 
glycogen is an essential fuel source for sustained 
moderate- to high-intensity aerobic and anaero -
bic exercise metabolism [ 50, 51]. Therefore, 
replenishment of depleted muscle glycogen lev -
els after strenuous exercise is paramount to com -
plete recovery. Glycogen restoration is of utmost 
importance for preparation for a subsequent 
training or competition bout of exercise. 
Furthermore, failure to restore muscle glycogen 
between exercise sessions results in compro -
mised training and competition capacity and con -
tributes to symptoms of overtraining [ 52].
Classic work by Costill et  al. found that indi -
viduals consuming a high-carbohydrate diet 
could replenish their postexercise muscle glyco -
gen to normal pre-exercise concentrations within 
24 h [53]. These investigators reported that the 
consumption of 600  g of carbohydrate per day 
resulted in proportionately greater muscle glyco -
gen restoration during the 24-h period after exer -
cise. However, consumption of more than 600 g
provided no additional benefit. When dietary 
carbohydrate was inadequate (i.e., <150 g in
24 h) during successive days of intense exercise, 
there was a gradual reduction in muscle glycogen 
stores and deterioration in performance [ 52]. Thus, when insufficient carbohydrates are con -
sumed during the 24-h postexercise period, sub -
optimal glycogen levels result particularly over 
the course of several successive days of intense 
training. By applying the appropriate postexer -
cise carbohydrate restoration practices described 
below, athletes can avoid such a decrement in 
muscle carbohydrate stores.
12.5.1.1   Glycogen Storage 
Immediately After Exercise
Recent research has focused on the most effec -
tive means of promoting glycogen replenish -
ment during the early hours of exercise recovery. 
Postexercise synthesis of glycogen occurs in a 
biphasic fashion, with the initial, rapid phase 
occurring in the first 30  min and the subsequent, 
slower phase of resynthesis occurring until 
muscle glycogen levels are fully restored [ 54]. 
Fatigued muscles are highly sensitive to nutrient 
activation following exercise, with the sensitiv -
ity declining over time. Therefore, to maximize 
the rate of muscle glycogen repletion, an athlete 
must initiate carbohydrate restoration supple -
mentation immediately after the completion of 
exercise.
Resynthesis of muscle glycogen is twice as 
rapid if carbohydrate is consumed immediately 
after exercise in contrast to waiting several hours 
[55]. This rapid rate of synthesis can be main -
tained if carbohydrate is consumed throughout 
the hours following exercise. For example, sup -
plementing carbohydrate at 2-h intervals at a 
rateof1.5 g/kgbodyweightappearstomaximize
resynthesis for a period of 4  h after exercise [ 55]. 
Carbohydrate provided immediately after exer -
cise can be in the form of solid or liquid provided 
the glycemic index (GI) is high and the presence 
of other macronutrients minimized so as not to 
affect the rate of gastric emptying, intestinal 
absorption, or glycogen storage [ 56–58]. Practical 
considerations, such as the availability and appe -
tite appeal of foods or drinks and gastrointestinal 
comfort, may determine individual carbohydrate 
choices and intake patterns. Review of appropri -
ate carbohydrate types is provided later in the 
chapter. Intriguingly, postexercise muscle glyco -
gen synthesis may be enhanced with the addition 
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

283
of protein and certain amino acids. Furthermore, 
the combination of carbohydrate and protein has 
the added benefit of stimulating amino acid trans -
port, protein synthesis, and muscle tissue repair. 
Both of these topics are discussed later.
12.5.2   Sustained Postexercise 
Glycogen Storage
Maehlum et  al. [55] and Ivy et  al. [55] have dem -
onstrated that the postexercise rate of glycogen 
storage plateaus at carbohydrate ingestion rates of 
1–2g/kg. Consumption of more than 2 g/kg
provides no additional benefit and may result in 
gastrointestinal distress. Investigators have deter -
mined that providing carbohydrate at 1.5 g/kg
every 2  h (in either liquid or solid form) after exer -
cise resulted in a near-maximal rate of glycogen 
resynthesis over the first 4  h of recovery [ 55, 57]. 
Other scientists have also reported sustained,
rapid resynthesis of muscle glycogen stores from 
similar rates of carbohydrate intake (i.e., 1.5 g/kg
every 2  h), particularly when high-GI carbohy -
drate foods are consumed [ 59].Overa24-hperiod,
this equates to ingesting carbohydrate at approxi -
mately7–10 g/kgrelativetobodyweightperday.
Again, practical considerations, such as the
availability and appetite appeal of foods or drinks 
and gastrointestinal comfort, may determine ideal 
carbohydrate choices and intake patterns.
12.5.3   Glycogen 
Supercompensation
Because of the paramount importance of muscle 
glycogen during intense, prolonged exercise as 
well as exercise of an anaerobic nature, methods 
for maximizing initial, pre-exercise levels and 
replenishing the glycogen stores on a day-to-day 
basis have been studied extensively [ 50, 60]. The 
provision of adequate carbohydrate during the 
recovery process can result in “supercompensa -
tion” of muscle glycogen storage. In other words, 
more glycogen can be stored than prior to the 
previous exercise bout. Postexercise carbohydrate 
feeding promotes glycogen supercompensation by increasing blood concentrations of glucose and 
insulin. Insulin promotes muscle carbohydrate 
storage by increasing blood flow through the 
muscle and by regulating the synthesis of glyco -
gen in the muscle. Specifically, insulin regulates 
the synthesis of glycogen in two steps: first, by 
increasing the transport and uptake of glucose 
into muscle cells and, second, by increasing the 
intramuscular enzymes involved in glycogen 
synthesis and decreasing the enzymes involved 
in degradation [ 61]. Exercise is important in this
process as muscle contraction results in an 
increase in insulin stimulation of glucose trans -
port into the muscle cell [ 62, 63] and indirectly 
enhances insulin-mediated activation of key 
enzymes of the glycogen synthesis pathway [ 64].
Bergstrom and Hultman [ 65] first observed 
that glycogen synthesis occurred most rapidly in 
muscle depleted of its related glycogen stores. 
They also found that consumption of a high-  
carbohydrate diet for 3 days would elevate the 
glycogen concentration of the muscle above 
normal and that this phenomenon was observed 
only in the muscle that was previously glycogen 
depleted by exercise. Later, Sherman and col -
leagues provided findings for a modified glycogen 
supercompensation regimen in which a 5-day 
workout taper was accompanied by a moderate 
(50 % of caloric intake) dietary carbohydrate 
intake for the first three taper days followed by  
3 days of higher carbohydrate intake (i.e., 70  % 
caloric intake) [ 66]. In a follow-up study, these 
investigators determined that pre-exercise muscle 
glycogen levels could be maintained at high 
levels despite daily training if carbohydrate was 
consumedatarateof10 g/kg/day.Morerecently,
Bussau and associates described a 1-day glyco -
gen supercompensation regimen [ 67].
12.5.3.1   Differences Between Simple 
Carbohydrates
Fructose, sucrose, and glucose are common 
dietarycarbohydrates.However,thephysiological
responses to the consumption of these “simple” 
sugars differ considerably. For example, the rise 
in blood glucose and insulin following ingestion 
of fructose is significantly lower than that follow -
ing ingestion of glucose [ 59]. This is due to the 
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

284
necessary conversion of fructose to the more 
readily utilized glucose by the liver. Researchers 
have demonstrated that ingestion of glucose and 
high-GI carbohydrate are twice as effective for 
restoring muscle glycogen [ 59, 68]. Blom and 
colleagues suggested that the differences between 
the glucose and fructose supplements were due to 
the ways the body handles these sugars [ 59]. 
Fructose metabolism takes place predominantly 
in the liver, whereas most glucose appears to 
bypass the liver to be stored or oxidized by the 
muscle [ 51]. Thus, carbohydrate supplement 
products containing glucose (dextrose) or glu -
cose polymers are more effective for restoring 
muscle glycogen after exercise than supplements 
composed predominantly of fructose. Many 
postexercise supplement drinks contain glucose 
or glucose polymers, and, despite its name, the 
common food sweetener high-fructose corn 
syrup (HFCS) contains a significant percentage
of glucose (~50  %).
12.5.4   Protein
Recent research demonstrates that ideal postexer -
cise meals/beverages should contain both carbo -
hydrate and protein. This combination promotes 
an accelerated rate of muscle glycogen storage 
possibly by activating the glycogen synthesis 
pathway by two mechanisms [ 69, 70]. First, it 
raises the plasma insulin level beyond that typical 
of a carbohydrate supplement, which may aug -
ment muscle glucose uptake and activate glyco -
gen synthase, the rate-limiting enzyme for 
glycogen synthesis. Second, the increase in 
plasma amino acids that occur as a result of pro -
tein consumption may activate glycogen synthase 
through an insulin-independent pathway, thus 
having an additive effect on the activity of this 
enzyme. Continued supplementation at 2-h inter -
vals can maintain an active glycogen recovery for 
up to 8  h after exercise. The combination of car -
bohydrate and protein provided immediately 
after exercise is also ideal for stimulating protein 
synthesis and tissue repair. This is due to the 
additive effect of insulin and amino acids on the 
enzymes controlling amino acid transport, protein translation, and protein degradation. Moreover, 
research has demonstrated that appropriate 
nutrient supplementation after exercise can have 
a significant impact on subsequent physical per -
formance [ 69].
In summary, general guidelines for postexer -
cise carbohydrate and protein intake are the 
following:(1)Duringthefirst3 hafterexercise,
ingest two or three mixed meals providing 
approximately 400–600  kcal (each). (2) For 
strength/power athletes, a carbohydrate/protein 
ratio of 2:1 is recommended. (3) For team sport
athletes, a 3:1 ratio is recommended. (4) For
endurance athletes, a 4:1 ratio is recommended.
(5) Make sure the first postexercise meal includes 
high-GI carbohydrates (dextrose, maltodextrin) 
and rapidly digesting protein (whey protein con -
centrates, hydrolysates). (6) Be sure to provide 
more energy for larger athletes and/or for higher 
volumes of training. For endurance athletes 
engaged in repeated high-volume training, the 
recommended daily target for carbohydrate con -
sumption of 10–13 g/kg relative to body weight
per day is sufficient.
When the period between exercise sessions is 
short (<12 h), the athlete should begin carbohy -
drate–protein intake as soon as possible after the 
first exercise bout to maximize the effective 
recovery time between sessions. There may be 
some advantages in meeting carbohydrate–pro -
tein intake targets with a series of snacks during 
the early recovery phase, but during longer recov -
ery periods (1–2 days), the athlete should plan
their timing of high-GI, carbohydrate-rich feed -
ings according to what is most practical and com -
fortable for their individual situation.
12.5.5   Lipids
Athletes rarely ingest dietary fat to improve
their performance and recovery, but there are 
several specialized lipids that may have unique 
effects on human physiology. Medium-chain tri -
glycerides (MCTs) are fatty acid constituents of 
coconut and palm kernel oils. They have an 
important action as energy-providing mole -
cules, in particular for individuals with intestinal 
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

285
malabsorption syndromes [ 71]. Indeed, from the 
medial perspective, MCTs have been shown to 
be helpful for nutritional support in a number of 
conditions, including the specialized nutritional 
need of some infants, the chronically ill, and sur -
gical patients [ 72–74]. For almost a decade, 
MCTs have been promoted as useful for weight 
loss and improving athletic performance. 
However, to date, most studies have shown that 
MCTs are ineffective in this regard. For example, 
researchers have investigated the role of 
MCTs in the enhancement of long-chain fatty 
acid oxidation, preservation of muscle glycogen, 
and the ability to improve overall exercise per -
formance [ 75–77]. In general, results were 
unimpressive. More importantly, some studies 
even reported that exercise performance was 
impaired in subjects taking high doses of MCTs. 
This reduction in performance was associated 
with an increase in gastrointestinal problems, 
such as intestinal cramping. For these reasons, 
use of MCTs during the postexercise period can -
not be justified at this time.
12.5.5.1   Conjugated Linoleic  Acid
Conjugatedlinoleicacid(CLA)isagroupofiso -
mers of the essential fat linoleic acid. CLA is 
naturally found in a number of animal meats, 
eggs, and dairy products. CLA has drawn inter -
est in the sports nutrition community because of 
a reported ability to increase lean body mass and 
reduce body fat [ 78–80] and more recently 
improve immune function [ 81]. Specifically, 
Song and associates reported that 12 weeks of
supplementation (at 3  g/day) with a 50:50 blend 
of the cis-9, trans-11 and trans-10, cis-12 iso -
mers significantly decreased levels of the 
 pro- inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis 
factor- α (TNF α)andinterleukin-1 β(IL-1 β) while 
simultaneously increasing levels of the anti-  
inflammatory cytokine IL-10 [ 81]. Although this 
study needs to be confirmed by other research 
studies, it indicates that CLA may be useful for 
enhancing recovery by limiting exercise-induced 
inflammation and soreness. It should be noted 
that although the trans-10, cis-12isomerappears 
to be responsible for the fat-lowering effects of 
CLA [ 82, 83], some studies have reported that supplementation with this purified isomer in high 
doses (i.e., 2.6  g/day) may increase insulin resis -
tance,lowerhigh-densitylipoprotein(HDL)cho -
lesterol, and elevate biomarkers of oxidative 
stress in obese men with metabolic syndrome [ 84]. 
In contrast, the aforementioned 50:50 blend of 
CLAdoesnotappeartohavetheseadverseeffects, 
even after prolonged use (i.e., up to 2 years).
12.5.6   Other Muscle Substrates
12.5.6.1   Creatine
Creatine monohydrate, or methyl guanidine-  
acetic acid, is presently one of the most popular 
ergogenicsportsupplements.Endogenously,cre -
atine is an amino acid-like compound produced 
in the liver, kidneys, and pancreas from arginine, 
glycine, and methionine. Creatine is a nonessen -
tial dietary compound that is both endogenously 
synthesized, primarily in the liver from the amino 
acids arginine, glycine, and methionine, and nat -
urally ingested through an omnivorous diet by 
consuming meat, fish, and poultry. However, 
because of typically having lower total muscle 
creatine contents, vegetarians possess a greater 
ability to uptake creatine when compared to their 
omnivorous counterparts [ 85]. Endogenously 
synthesized creatine is released from the liver 
into the bloodstream and then taken up by muscle 
fibers predominately by way of a sodium-
chloride-  dependent creatine transporter (CrT). 
Creatine ingested through supplementation has 
been observed to be absorbed into the muscle 
exclusively by means of CrT [ 86].
The major rationale of creatine supplementa -
tion is to increase the intracellular pool of total 
creatine (creatine + phosphocreatine). Once
taken up into the muscle, approximately 65  % of 
creatine is phosphorylated by the enzyme cre -
atine kinase to form phosphocreatine (PCr). The 
remaining 35  % exists in the muscle as free 
(unphosphorylated) creatine. The intracellular 
level of phosphocreatine (PCr) plays a signifi -
cant bioenergetics role during the immediate 
energy system, typically referred to as the ATP–
PCr system, which is predominately active dur -
ing high-  intensity, short-duration, and repeated 
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

286
bouts of exercise. During this type of exercise, 
depletion of intracellular PCr stores occur, yet 
intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP) con -
centration is maintained by a freely reversible 
reaction, catalyzed by creatine kinase, in which 
PCr phosphorylates adenosine diphosphate 
(ADP)toreplenishATPstores.Thisbioenergetic
system provides the impetus to increase the 
duration of high-  intensity exercise from only a 
fewsecondstoupto10–15 s.Itshouldbenoted,
however, that PCr levels within the muscle are 
almost 3–4 times more abundant than intramus -
cular ATP stores. Therefore, the PCr supply is
sufficient in providing a temporary ATP source
until other bioenergetic systems reach maximal 
rates.AnotherrolethatPCrfunctionsistoactas
an acid–base buffer to prevent declines in intra -
cellularpHsincethecreatinekinasereactionuti -
lizes a hydrogen ion. Muscular contraction can 
be negatively impacted by metabolic acidosis 
due to marked reductions in intramuscular pH.
Hundreds of clinical trials have been con -
ducted on creatine monohydrate supplementa -
tion as a means of enhancing exercise 
performance. In general, approximately 70  % of 
the clinical trials have found beneficial effects, 
particularly during short, repeated bursts of 
high-intensity activity. The most common cre -
atine supplementation dosing regimen that has 
indicated an increase in intracellular PCr and 
performance is 20  g/day (divided into four equal 
doses each day) for 5–7 days and is usually fol -
lowed by a maintenance phase of 5  g/day. While 
this approach seems more appropriate for some -
one who is using creatine to prepare for a sport -
ing even 1–3 weeks following initiation of
supplementation, for those who intend on sup -
plementing on a daily basis for an extended 
period, a loading phase is not necessary to 
achieve positive results [ 87]. Studies examining 
pre- vs. postexercise consumption of creatine are 
in their nascent stages. Consequently, until a 
general consensus is reached regarding timing of 
creatine consumption relative to exercise, the 
authors recommend “bracketing” the exercise 
session with multiple doses (i.e., ingest 2.5  g 
pre-exercise and another 2.5  g postexercise).It should be noted that at least one study has 
reported that longer-term (e.g., 3–6 months) cre -
atine supplementation reduced CrT activity and 
muscle creatine uptake [ 88]. These findings 
imply that it would be undesirable to consume 
high doses of creatine for an extended amount of 
time. Thus, a 1 month washout period following
1–3 months of supplementation would be pru -
dent to avoid downregulation of the creatine 
transporters. Furthermore, it would also be 
advisable to avoid consuming extremely high 
doses of creatine, as this would likely downregu -
late the CrT over time. As a result, some experts
suggest creatine cycling (i.e., 4 weeks of use fol -
lowed by a 4-week break) based on the premise 
that once muscle creatine stores are elevated 
they can remain so (with performance enhanced) 
for an additional 4–5 weeks without creatine 
supplementation.
Another issue worth considering is since cre -
atine uptake will most likely differ in regard to 
weight and muscle mass, ingesting creatine at an 
absolute dose may not be best but rather at a rela -
tive amount based upon body weight (approxi -
mately 0.7  g/kg of body mass) or fat-free mass 
(approximately 0.1 g/kg of fat-free mass). In
light of these dosing strategies, some researchers 
have found no improvement via supplementa -
tion; thus the term nonresponders has been 
established. Since intracellular creatine rather 
than PCr levels determine the regulation of cre -
atine uptake and CrT activity [ 89], it is likely 
that this variability is due to the regulatory pro -
cess of the CrT that controls both the influx and 
efflux of creatine across the muscle cell membrane. 
Another possibility is that “nonresponders”
already have high levels of intramuscular cre -
atine stores. Although responses are quite vari -
able from person to person, the ingestion of 
creatine typically produces an average 2–5  lb. 
greater gain in muscle mass and 5–15 % greater
increases in muscle strength and power com -
pared to control (or placebo) subjects [ 90–92].
Efforts have been made to attempt to deter -
mine the most effective means to enhance muscle 
creatine uptake. Because it is also known that the 
uptake and storage of creatine can be augmented 
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

287
by up to 60  % when blood levels of insulin are 
elevated [ 93], many individuals co-ingest cre -
atine with high-GI carbohydrates (usually dex -
trose,maltodextrin,orfruitjuice).AddingCrwith
a carbohydrate source has been observed to 
enhance uptake, primarily through the effect of 
an insulin response. Additionally, research has
indicated that combining creatine with sodium 
and/or chloride may additionally enhance Cr 
uptake via the manipulation of increasing the 
gradient in which the CrT functions [ 94]. Finally, 
it should be noted that no study has ever been 
published demonstrating greater benefits to 
strength, lean mass, or performance with cre -
atine salts (e.g., creatine hydrochloride, creatine 
citrate, creatine pyruvate) compared to creatine 
monohydrate.
12.5.6.2   d-Ribose
d-Ribose is an organic pentose monosaccharide 
(five-carbon sugar) found in all living cells. 
Ribose ( β-d-ribofuranose) forms part of the back -
boneofRNA. Riboseissometimesreferredtoas
a “genetic sugar” because of its importance in the 
nucleosides of RNA as well as ATP. All foods
have some d-ribose, but certain substances, such 
as brewers’ yeast, are rich in RNA and thus are
thought to be good sources of d-ribose. Ribose is 
related to deoxyribose, which is found in DNA.
Phosphorylated derivatives of ribose such as 
ATPandNADHplaycentralrolesinmetabolism.
The cyclic monophosphates, cAMP and cGMP,
formed from ATP and GTP serve as secondary
messengersinsomesignalingpathways.However,
there is a mismatch between ATP hydrolysis and
synthesis rates that are associated with high-
intensity exercise that lead to an overall reduction 
of total adenine nucleotides [(AdN) = ATP +
ADP+AMP]withinthemyocyte.OncetheATP-
derived purine molecule is lost from the muscle 
cell, recovery of the AdN pool must depend on
the de novo synthesis and/or the purine salvage 
metabolic pathways, and these pathways proceed 
at relatively slow rates [ 95]. Studies have shown 
that repeated days of short-term, high-intensity 
exercise in humans led to a significant reduction 
in resting ATP concentration in the previously
exercised muscles [ 96, 97].AlthoughthepathwaysforskeletalmuscleAdNsynthesisproceedslowly,
an impactful increase in their rates occurs with 
ribose supplementation [ 98]. It has also been 
shown that ribose supplementation increased 
adenine salvage rates in resting skeletal muscle 
and that high-intensity exercise had no diminish -
ing effect on adenine salvage rates in the postex -
ercise recovery period in ribose-supplemented 
muscle [ 99].
Current thinking is that ribose supplementa -
tion would be an effective ergogenic aid by virtue 
of its ability to resynthesize ATP and “boost
energy” based on the fact that ribose supplemen -
tation has been shown effective at increasing 
AdNsynthesisandadeninesalvage.Eventhough
a number of studies have been performed attempt -
ing to demonstrate the role of ribose as a perfor -
mance enhancer, overall the data do not support 
this presumption. For example, single-bout 
studies providing 3–32  g of d-ribose before exer -
cise did not report improvements in anaerobic 
exercise capacity or adenine nucleotide break -
down [100, 101]. Also, a study in which 10 g of
d-ribose was ingested for five consecutive days 
indicated no beneficial effect on anaerobic exer -
cise capacity or metabolic markers [ 102].Asimi -
lar study involving 6 days of oral ribose 
supplementation (4  × 4 g doses) was shown to 
have no effect on maximal intermittent exercise 
performance or postexercise muscle ATP recov -
ery [103]. Thus, although there may be clinical 
applications of high-dose (~60  g/day) d-ribose in 
chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia, at 
present the use of d-ribose as an ergogenic nutri -
tional supplement cannot be adequately justified.
12.6   Oxidative Stress
Although some oxidative stress is necessary for
optimal adaption to exercise training, excessive 
oxidative stress results in an imbalance between 
the systemic manifestation of reactive oxygen 
species and the body’s ability to readily detoxify 
the reactive intermediates or to repair the result -
ing damage. Disturbances in the normal redox 
state of cells can cause toxic effects through the 
production of peroxides and free radicals that 
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

288
damage all components of the cell, including 
proteins,lipids,andDNA. Further,somereactive
oxidative species act as cellular messengers in 
redox signaling. Thus, oxidative stress can cause 
disruptions in normal mechanisms of cellular sig -
naling. In regard to the redox state of cells, oxida -
tion–reduction or “redox” reactions are usually 
defined as a transfer of electrons from one chemi -
cal compound to another. During an oxidation–
reduction reaction, one reactant gains one or 
more electrons from another reactant, which in 
turn is losing one or more electrons. The process 
of gaining electrons is called reduction, and the 
process of losing electrons is called oxidation. 
The oxidizing agent, or oxidant, is the substance 
that causes other chemical species to be oxidized 
while it is reduced. The reducing agent, or reduc -
tant, is the substance that causes other chemical 
species to be reduced while it is oxidized.
In humans, oxidative stress is thought to be 
involved in the development of a number of dis -
eases involving skeletal muscle including can -
cer, Parkinson’s disease, infection, and chronic 
fatigue syndrome [ 104]. Chemically, oxidative 
stress is associated with increased production of 
oxidizing species or a significant decrease in the 
effectiveness of antioxidant defenses, such as 
glutathione [ 105]. The effects of oxidative stress 
depend upon the magnitude of these changes, 
with a cell being able to overcome small pertur -
bations and regain its original state. Moderate 
oxidation can trigger apoptosis-mediated cell 
damage, whereas more severe oxidative stress 
typically associated with very high-intensity 
exercise can cause apoptosis-mediated cell 
death [106].
Production of reactive oxygen species is a 
particularly destructive aspect of oxidative 
stress. Such species include free radicals and 
peroxides. Some of the less reactive of these spe -
cies (such as superoxide) can be converted by 
oxidoreduction reactions with transition metals 
or other redox cycling compounds (including 
quinones) into more aggressive radical species 
that can cause extensive cellular damage [ 107]. 
Most long-term effects are caused by damage to 
DNA, which has been implicated in aging and
cancer [108].Oxidativestressinknowntooccurinresponse
to exercise and seems to play a role in muscle 
protein breakdown and impaired cellular func -
tion in the muscle. As a result, recent attention
has been focused attempting to elucidate the link 
between free-radical formation and muscle dam -
age. Free radicals are continuously formed as a 
normal consequence of body processes, includ -
ing exercise. Therefore, attempting to determine 
a way in which to attenuate exercise-induced oxi -
dative stress may play a beneficial result in 
enhancing muscle recovery from exercise and 
subsequent improvements in muscle performance 
during exercise. A free radical is an atom with
one unpaired electron in its outermost shell, mak -
ingitunstableandhighlyreactive.Afree-radical
sequesters an electron from any cellular compo -
nent it can but typically from the lipid membrane 
of a cell, initiating a process called lipid peroxi -
dation . The most common radical atom is oxy -
gen, and the process whereby this element gains 
another electron is termed oxidation . The resul -
tant cellular damage caused by these processes is 
known as oxidative stress , and the free radicals 
formed via oxygen are called reactive oxygen 
species (ROS). The most common ROS include
the superoxide anion (O 2), the hydroxyl radical 
(OH•), singlet oxygen (1O2), and hydrogen perox -
ide (H 2O2).
Free radicals damage cell membranes and 
increase protein breakdown, and they are par -
tially to blame for the local inflammation and 
soreness associated with the postexercise period 
[95]. Aerobic metabolism increases oxidative
stress due to the increased amount of oxygen pro -
cessed throughout the exercising muscle cell 
[109–111]. The generation of free radicals is 
related to the rate of oxygen consumption in 
working muscles and therefore increases as the 
intensity of exercise increases [ 112, 113]. The 
body maintains several natural antioxidants 
whose levels increase with endurance training as 
an adaptation to the chronic exposure to aerobic 
metabolism-derived oxidative stress [ 114]. In 
addition to the body’s natural antioxidants, sev -
eral dietary sources of antioxidants consisting of 
vitamin and vitamin-like substances are available 
to aid recovery from exercise.
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

289
12.6.1   Oxidation and  Reduction 
Reactions
Oxidation–reduction or “redox” reactions are
usually defined as a transfer of electrons from 
one chemical species to another. During an oxi -
dation–reduction reaction, one reactant gains one 
or more electrons from another reactant, which in 
turn is losing one or more electrons. The process 
of gaining electrons is called reduction , and the 
process of losing electrons is called oxidation . 
The oxidizing agent, or oxidant, is the substance 
that causes other chemical species to be oxidized 
while it is reduced. The reducing agent, or reduc -
tant, is the substance that causes other chemical 
species to be reduced while it is oxidized. Redox 
reactions are ubiquitous. We can find them in our 
cell phone batteries, on our cars as rust, and in 
our bodies during combustion reactions. A com -
mon mnemonic for redox reactions is OIL RIG
(oxidation is loss, reduction is gain).
In biological systems, it is important to recog -
nize that free radicals are powerful oxidizing 
agents. They are highly reactive chemical species 
that have an odd number of electrons. These 
chemicals oxidize other chemicals in an attempt 
to pair their odd electrons. In these free-radical 
reactions, the free radicals must gain electrons 
and therefore be reduced. In the body, the antioxi -
dant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD), cata -
lase(CAT),andglutathioneperoxidase(GPx)are
thought to be our most important lines of defense 
for destroying free radicals.
SOD first reduces (adds an electron to) the
radicalsuperoxide(O 2–) to form hydrogen perox -
ide (H 2O2) and oxygen (O 2).
 2222 22 OH SODH OO-+® ®+ 
Catalase and GPx then work simultaneously with 
the protein glutathione to reduce hydrogen per -
oxide and ultimately produce water (H 2O).
 222 22 HO CATH OO--® + 
 HO glutathione GPx
oxidized glutathione HO22
22
2+®
®+ 
Oxidized glutathione is then reduced by another
antioxidant enzyme called glutathione reductase.12.6.2   Vitamins C and  E
The water-soluble vitamin C (also known as 
ascorbic acid) and the fat-soluble vitamin E are
well-known antioxidants that minimize cellular 
damage from oxidative stress. These vitamins are 
consumed during exercise but not synthesized in 
the body, so repetitive exercise training can 
reduce tissue levels of these highly important 
vitamins.VitaminsCandEmayworkinasyner -
gistic fashion providing a greater protective ben -
efit when combined by inhibiting the release of 
the inflammation-promoting molecule IL-6 from 
working muscle [ 115]. Indeed, postexercise sup -
plements containing both antioxidant vitamins 
have proven effective [ 116, 117]. However, vita -
min E seems to be the more relevant of the two
withrespecttopostexerciseapplications.Vitamin
Eprotectsthecellmembranephospholipidsfrom
becoming oxidized from free-radical molecules 
[118]. This vitamin is especially beneficial for 
preventing muscle soreness in individuals who 
undergo a vigorous exercise bout to which they 
are unaccustomed. In addition to protecting 
membrane phospholipids, vitamin E has been
shown to increase immune cell migration to dam -
aged muscle cells and decrease the number of 
free radicals produced during a given bout of 
exercise [ 119].
Research involving 4 weeks of daily vitamin 
C (250mg/day), vitamin E (400 IU/day), and
vitaminC+Esupplementationintrainedfemale
athletes demonstrated a decrease in serum mark -
ers of muscle damage in all three groups when 
compared to placebo [ 120]. Another study pro -
vided vitamins C and E to professional soccer
players during their 3-month preseason training 
period. Results showed that the vitamin C and E
supplement significantly lowered markers of 
lipid peroxidation and muscle damage compared 
to placebo [ 121]. Similarly, a study involving 
oral vitamin C and E supplementation for 35
days in maximal exercising basketball players 
found that the combined provision of these two 
antioxidant vitamins resulted in elevated plasma 
vitamin E levels and improvements in the gluta -
thione antioxidant defense system in erythro -
cytes [122].
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

290
In contrast to the positive postexercise effects 
of vitamin E, the findings for its counterpart
vitamin C are less compelling. Thompson and 
colleagues investigated the effects of 200  mg 
vitamin C supplementation following an intense 
shuttle-  running test [ 123]. These investigators 
did not observe improved indices of muscle dam -
age, muscle function, or muscle soreness com -
pared to a placebo group. Similar results were 
reported in a study by Close and colleagues 
[124]. In this study, supplementation with ascor -
bic acid after downhill running exercise decreased 
indices of oxidative muscle damage compared to 
placebo but did not attenuate delayed-onset mus -
cle soreness. In fact, at least two studies have 
reported that postexercise vitamin C supplemen -
tation may delay the recovery process, especially 
following prolonged eccentric exercise [ 123, 125]. 
Thus, although pre-exercise vitamin C supplemen -
tation has been clearly demonstrated to play a 
protective role in the muscle [ 126–128], its appli -
cation to postexercise recovery is less clear.
In terms of supplementation, there are no 
known adverse effects of increased consumption 
of either of these antioxidant vitamins at the dos -
ages mentioned earlier [ 129]. However, a daily
intake of more than 400 IU vitamin E, particu -
larly in the dα form, is ill-advised [ 130]. It is 
important to note that the term “vitamin E” actu -
ally describes a family of eight antioxidants, four 
tocopherols and four tocotrienols, and the effects 
of the latter two families of vitamin E are largely
unstudied at this time.
Although it could be argued that high dosages
of certain antioxidants are necessary to observe 
benefits on exercise recovery, it is important to 
recognize that at low concentrations ROS have
important functional roles in the body (i.e., 
defense against infectious agents and various cell 
signaling pathways). Thus, when it comes to anti -
oxidant supplementation, “more is not necessarily 
better.” There is also the pending argument that 
routinely ingesting antioxidants is detrimental as 
this practice may actually weaken the body’s own 
endogenous antioxidant defense mechanisms. 
There are data to support this presumption. For 
example, a study was performed attempting to show 
that exercise-induced oxidative stress ameliorates insulin resistance and causes an adaptive 
response promoting endogenous antioxidant 
defense capacity in humans. The study involved 
thecombinationofvitaminC(1,000 mg/day)and
vitamin E (400 IU/day) supplementation for 4
weeks in conjunction with an exercise protocol, 
and the results demonstrated that the supplemen -
tation of the antioxidants vitamins C and E pre -
cluded the potential health-  promoting effects of 
exercise [ 131]. In light of this information, it is 
not overly conclusive to the overall beneficial 
effects of antioxidant supplementation in mini -
mizing exercise-induced oxidative stress and sub -
sequently improving muscle performance. Thus, 
until more research is available, we feel it is pru -
dent to keep doses of antioxidant vitamins low 
during the peri-exercise period (i.e., immediately 
pre- and postexercise).
12.6.3   l-Carnitine
l-Carnitine is a quaternary ammonium com -
pound biosynthesized from the amino acids 
lysine and methionine [ 132]. l-Carnitine is an 
amino acid derivative found abundantly in skele -
tal muscles. l-Carnitine is a substrate for the 
mitochondrial enzyme, carnitine palmitoyltrans -
ferase I (CPT-I), the rate-limiting enzymatic step 
in fatty acid transports across the mitochondrial 
membrane for subsequent fat oxidation in skele -
tal muscle. l-Carnitine seems to also play a role 
against muscle wasting. Evidence from clinical
studies exists that the l-carnitine supplementa -
tion causes an improved nitrogen balance either 
due to increased protein synthesis or reduced 
protein degradation, an inhibition of apoptosis, 
and an abrogation of inflammatory processes 
under pathologic conditions. Furthermore,  
l- carnitine supplementation has also been shown 
to prevent oxidative stress and ameliorates mito -
chondrial function [ 133].
Although l-carnitine supplementation does not 
appear to improve body composition, recent stud -
ies demonstrate that doses of 1–2 g/day decrease
the production of free radicals, reduce tissue 
damage, and enhance recovery from intense resis -
tance exercise [ 134–136]. l- Carnitine  may have 
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

291
additional health benefits and appears to be safe 
during long-term use [ 137–139]. Of particular
interest is the effect of coadministering l-carnitine 
with other compounds that can improve its uptake 
into target tissues (e.g., choline, insulinemic car -
bohydrates, etc.).
12.7   Immune Function
12.7.1   Glutamine
Glutamine is the most abundant amino acid in 
plasma and skeletal muscle [ 140] and accounts 
for more than 60  % of the total intramuscular free 
amino acid pool [ 141].Althoughproducedinthe
bodyfrombranched-chainaminoacids(BCAAs),
under certain circumstances (e.g., injury, surgery, 
overtraining), the body may not be able to syn -
thesizesufficientglutaminetomatchdemand.As
such, glutamine is considered as a “conditionally 
essential” amino acid [ 142]. Glutamine plays a 
minor role in most cells’ energy metabolism and 
may be important for muscle hypertrophy, but 
this carbon source seems to be a vital fuel for 
some cells of the immune system [ 143]. Typically, 
glutamine (9  g/day) is released from muscle 
and is available for lymphocyte and macrophage 
fuel use [ 144]. However, after prolonged (>2 h)
exhaustive exercise, there is a significant decrease 
in the circulating plasma glutamine concentration 
[145, 146]. Exercise-associated suppression of
circulating glutamine may remain for many hours 
upon cessation of exercise [ 147].
Reactive oxygen species generated during 
oxidative stress can induce severe damage to 
biomolecules. To prevent this damage, cells are 
endowed with both enzymatic and nonenzymatic 
defenses. One of the most important antioxidant
molecules is glutathione. Since glutamine is a 
precursor of glutathione, its supplementation in 
the clinical diet can be used to maintain high lev -
els of glutathione and to avoid oxidative stress 
damage [ 148]. Glutamine is a multifaceted 
amino acid used for hepatic urea synthesis, renal 
ammonia genesis, gluconeogenesis in both liver 
and kidney, and as a major respiratory fuel for 
many cells. Decreased glutamine concentrations are found during catabolic stress and are related 
to susceptibility to infections. Besides, gluta -
mine is not only an important energy source in 
mitochondria but is also a precursor of the brain 
neurotransmitter glutamate, which is likewise 
used for biosynthesis of the cellular antioxidant 
glutathione. Reactive oxygen species, such as 
superoxide anions and hydrogen peroxide, func -
tion as intracellular second messengers activat -
ing, among others, apoptosis, whereas glutamine 
is an apoptosis suppressor. In fact, it could con -
tribute to block apoptosis induced by exogenous 
agents or by intracellular stimuli [ 149].
Asingleboutofresistanceexercisewhichcre -
ated muscle damage was not lessened compared 
to placebo when 240  mg of glutamine was orally 
ingested immediately after exercise [ 150]. 
Although the significance of postexercise gluta -
mine alterations in the intracellular environment 
of previously exercised muscle has not been 
determined, the effects on the cells of the immune 
system are another matter. Because it is now 
widely accepted that glutamine is utilized at high 
rates by isolated cells of the immune system such 
as lymphocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils 
[151, 152], and considerable demand can be 
placed on these cells as a result of the elevated 
stress of exercise, there is concern regarding the 
possibility of an exercise-associated immunosup -
pression. For example, it is known that strenuous 
exercise can decrease plasma glutamine concen -
trations, which in turn may result in an increased 
risk of developing infection [ 145, 153]. 
Furthermore, it has previously been documented 
that the depression of glutamine results in a con -
comitant drop in lymphocyte-activated killer cell 
activity(LAK)[ 154].Althoughmoredataregard -
ing this potential phenomenon are needed, it 
seems possible that even small changes in 
immune function following daily exercise may 
be amplified with chronic high-intensity training. 
As such, an attempt regarding the dietary reme -
diation of glutamine depletion between exercise 
sessions seems appropriate.
In recent years several studies have investi -
gated the value and safety of glutamine supple -
mentation. For example, one study indicated that 
glutamine is well tolerated and not associated 
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

292
with toxicity in healthy subjects at dosages up 
to 0.9  g/kg of lean body mass per day during 
6 weeks of resistance training [ 154]. This study 
also reported no benefits vs. placebo with 
respect to muscle performance (isotonic and iso -
kinetic strength), body composition, or muscle 
protein degradation (measured via urinary 
3- methylhistidine). That said, other investigators 
have demonstrated decreased rates of postexercise 
infectionfollowingsupplementationof5–12 gof
glutamine within the first 2  h after exercise (in 
conjunction with adequate rehydration) [ 145]. 
Thus, although glutamine supplementation 
probably does not improve exercise performance 
or training adaptations (i.e., lean mass or body 
fat), its inclusion in the postexercise period for 
immune system surveillance/recovery may be 
warranted under certain conditions.
12.8   Repair of  Muscle Damage
Resistance exercise training, in tandem with 
appropriate nutrition and recovery, leads to sig -
nificant increases in skeletal muscle mass (hyper -
trophy). Depending on the training stimulus, 
muscle hypertrophy typically occurs via increases 
in muscle protein content, fluid volume, and 
mitochondrial mass. From a dietary perspective, 
the changes in muscle protein metabolism are the 
aspects of growth most readily influenced. 
Additionally, the body’s overall hormonal milieu
can also have an impact on the regulation of mus -
cle growth (Table  12.2). Pre- and postexercise 
nutrient availability play a critical factor in regu -
lating the degree of hypertrophy by promoting 
and supporting net protein accumulation in previ -
ously exercised muscle as well as driving the ana -
bolic hormonal environment to support muscle 
recovery and growth [ 155].
With respect to postexercise supplement con -
siderations, it is important to identify the key 
ingredients for nurturing muscle hypertrophy. 
Essentially, blood and muscle tissue amino acids
are used by the previously exercised muscle for 
synthesis of proteins that contribute greatly to the 
strength and size increases observed in resistance-  
trained muscle. This elaborate synthetic mechanism 
is supported by energy from carbohydrates, which have the additional role of glycogen resynthesis 
following exercise. Increased blood levels of car -
bohydrate and protein can stimulate insulin 
release from the pancreas. Insulin is important in 
the process of muscular growth, as this highly 
anabolic hormone increases skeletal muscle 
blood flow, promotes glycogen and protein syn -
thesis in previously exercised muscle, and may 
influence the effectiveness of other anabolic hor -
mones such as testosterone and growth hormone 
during the recovery process (Table  12.2).
12.8.1   Protein and  Amino Acid 
Intake
Dietary protein provides the amino acids neces -
sary to rebuild muscle tissue that is damaged dur -
ing intense, prolonged exercise. The amino acids 
in dietary protein are subjected to digestion Table 12.2  Major anabolic hormones and putative and 
established secretagogues
Insulin/insulin signaling
Carbohydratesa
Proteinsa
4-Hydroxyisoleucinea
Chromium
α-Lipoic acid
Growth hormone/IGF-1
α-Glycerylphosphorylcholinea
l-DOPAa
l-Argininea
l-Glutamine
l-Ornithine
Glycinea
Ornithine α-ketoglutarate
Mucuna pruriens
Testosterone
Aromatase inhibitorsa
Eurycoma longifoliaa
Boron
Fenugreeka
Avena sativa
Tribulus terrestris/alatus
d-Aspartic acid
IGF-1insulin-like growth factor-1
aEstablished secretagogues
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

293
(hydrolysis) in the stomach and intestine, are 
subsequently absorbed into the blood, and finally 
can circulate to the muscle for synthesis of mus -
cle protein. Purified amino acids and larger mol -
ecules of protein hydrolysates (i.e., predigested 
proteins) are both effective in increasing the cir -
culating levels of amino acids available to the 
muscle [156]. Extensively hydrolyzed proteins
containing mostly dipeptides and tripeptides 
(chains of two and three amino acids, respec -
tively) are absorbed more rapidly than isolated 
amino acids and much more rapidly than intact 
(non-hydrolyzed) proteins [ 157]. Although pro -
tein hydrolysate is preferred by many athletes 
because it results in a faster increase in blood 
amino acid concentration [ 158] and it strongly 
stimulates insulin secretion [ 159], there are no 
studies available that attest to its superiority 
(when compared to intact protein) in stimulating 
muscle growth in humans.
Several studies have demonstrated the 
 beneficial effects of postexercise protein sup -
plementation [ 159]. The timing of protein 
 supplementation may also be important. For 
example, when compared to protein consump -
tion several hours after exercise, protein con -
sumption(10 g)immediatelyfollowingexercise
has been shown to enhance the accumulation of 
muscle protein [ 160, 161]. However, because of
the enhanced insulin response to supplements 
containing protein and carbohydrate (also noted 
above), supplementing with 6  g of essential 
amino acids and 35  g of carbohydrate after exer -
cise has demonstrated a markedly higher ana -
bolic response when compared to those 
supplemented on protein alone [ 162]. This find -
ing is supported by other studies as well [ 163]. 
In addition, it has been recently demonstrated 
that consuming ~20  g of intact protein (or ~9  g 
of essential amino acids) maximizes muscle 
protein synthetic rates during the early stages of 
the postexercise period. However, it should be
noted that the majority of these studies have 
been conducted in untrained subjects and that 
total energy (and protein) intake throughout the 
day is probably more important than any single 
postexercise meal [ 164].12.8.2   Leucine and  Muscle Protein 
Synthesis
The branched-chain amino acid leucine appears 
to be the most important amino acid signal for the 
stimulation of muscle protein anabolism. Leucine 
is a potent activator of muscle protein synthesis, 
and dietary leucine supplements have been used 
as putative muscle mass builders [ 165]. Leucine’s 
role in muscle protein synthesis is thought to be 
related to its ability to increase circulating levels 
of insulin and to activate a key molecule involved 
in the regulation of protein synthesis, mTORC1
(mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1),
even in the absence of an increase in circulating 
insulin concentration [ 166]. Furthermore, studies 
have indicated that the effects of leucine occur 
not only through enhancement of protein synthe -
sis but also through suppression of protein 
breakdown [ 167]. However, reports observing a
stimulatory effect of leucine on human muscle 
protein synthesis have been inconsistent [ 168]. 
For example, a recent study [ 169] found no 
improvement in resting  muscle protein synthesis 
in adults who consumed a 10 g essential amino
acid (EAA) supplement providing added leucine
(3.5g leucine) when compared to a control 10 g
EAA supplement (1.8 g leucine). Such data are
important because they suggest that an essential 
amino acid profile consistent with that found in 
high-quality dietary proteins may be sufficient 
for the stimulation of muscle protein synthesis in 
humans at rest. More research is obviously nec -
essary, but at this point in time, most experts rec -
ommend that athletes ingest meals containing at 
least 3  g of leucine during the peri-workout 
period. Whether slightly lower doses of leucine 
are adequate during other times of the day is still 
being examined.
12.8.3   Carbohydrate and  Protein 
Intake
As mentioned previously, consumption of pro -
tein/amino acids and carbohydrate immediately 
before and after individual training sessions may 
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

294
augment protein synthesis and muscle glycogen 
resynthesis and reduce protein degradation. The 
optimal rate for carbohydrate (choose one with a 
high GI) ingestion immediately after a training 
session is ~1.2 g/kg/h at 30-min intervals for at
least4h.However,theeffectsofrepeatedsupple -
mentation on long-term adaptations to training 
are currently unclear.
To shed additional light on this issue, Bird 
and coworkers examined the effects of postexer -
cise, high-GI carbohydrate, and/or essential 
amino acid supplementation on hormonal and 
muscular adaptations in untrained young men 
[170]. Subjects followed the same supervised, 
resistance- training protocol twice a week for 12
weeks. Following resistance exercise, the sub -
jects consumed a high-GI carbohydrate (CHO),
an essential amino acids (6  g), a combined high-
GI CHO + essential amino acid (EAA) supple -
ment, or a placebo containing only aspartame 
and citrus flavoring. The results revealed that 
CHO + EAA supplementation enhances muscu -
lar and hormonal adaptations to a greater extent 
than either CHOs or EAAs consumed indepen -
dently.Specifically,CHO+EAAingestiondem -
onstrated the greatest relative increase in type I 
muscle fiber cross-sectional area. Changes in 
type II muscle fibers exhibited a similar trend. 
More studies are needed to confirm these results 
and refine nutritional recommendations that 
optimize postexercise muscle protein kinetics 
[171, 172].
12.8.4   Glutamine
As previously noted, glutamine may have some
important postexercise immune-supporting 
effects. However, there has been much specula -
tion as to how glutamine might be of benefit to 
athletes wanting to gain lean muscle mass. The 
observation that the cells of the gastrointestinal 
tract require a large supply of glutamine has led 
to the supposition that glutamine may offer anti-  
catabolic effects and thereby be useful in sparing 
muscle protein [ 173]. This position has been bol -
stered by evidence suggesting that glutamine is a 
potent agent for enhancing cellular swelling [ 174]. Such an association could have implications for 
muscular growth because recent evidence sug -
gests that the state of cellular hydration (i.e., 
cellular swelling) is an important factor in the 
control of many important cell functions, includ -
ing modulation of hormones, oxidative stress, 
and gene expression. Cell swelling also inhibits 
protein breakdown (i.e., anti-catabolism) [ 174].
The mechanisms proposed for improved pro -
tein turnover as mediated via glutamine-induced 
cell swelling are twofold. First, it may influence 
the function of cyclic AMP, a chemical messen -
ger associated with many cell functions including 
inhibition of protein synthesis. Second, it may 
have a direct effect on cell stability [ 174].
Not all research regarding the potential 
glutamine-  associated effects on muscle building 
have been encouraging. For example, a recent 
study investigated the effect of glutamine on 
strength and lean tissue mass during a 6-week 
resistance-training program [ 154]. The study 
reported that glutamine did not enhance adapta -
tionstothestrength-trainingprogram.However,
the scientists suggested that the lack of any ben -
eficial effect of glutamine in the study might 
have been attributed to the fact that the 
resistance-  training program may not have been 
stressful enough. This conclusion tends to be in 
line with the prevalent, and previously noted, 
current scientific opinions that indicate gluta -
mine is most likely of use only under conditions 
of severe stress.
12.9   Conclusion
Recovery supplements can be classified into 
four overlapping categories based on their 
mechanism(s) of action: oral rehydration/
electrolyte balance, replenishment of energy 
reserves, restoring redox balance, and stimula -
tion of muscle repair. Because of ongoing clinical 
trials and continuous advances in new ingredi -
ents, this chapter is in no way intended to be an 
exhaustive review of supplements that can 
improve recovery from exercise. In addition, as 
with any dietary supplement, the decision to use 
a specific supplement regimen is ideally made 
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

295
with input from a knowledgeable health-care 
professional, exercise scientist, and/or dietitian 
(with expertise in sports nutrition).
Based on the current body of research data, it 
is our contention that the following supplements 
have the potential to safely enhance recovery 
from intense exercise: multivitamin–mineral 
blends (when dietary intake of micronutrients is 
suboptimal), antioxidant blends (especially in 
aging athletes and during multiple training ses -
sions within the same day), sports drinks (espe -
cially during prolonged exercise in high heat/
humidity and/or altitude), certain amino acids 
(creatine, EAAs, BCAAs, l-carnitine), and per -
haps special lipids (CLA, omega-3 fatty acids).
Readers are encouraged to study other chapters 
in this text that cover the potential applications of 
HMB and β-alanine for their potential benefits 
during training as well.
12.10   Practical Applications
•Proper recovery from intense exercise begins 
during the pre-exercise period. The athlete 
must pay attention to macronutrient and micro -
nutrient needs and, in most  circumstances, 
should avoid training in a dehydrated or glyco -
gen-depleted state.
•In the postexercise period, athletes need to 
replenish carbohydrate stores based on their 
daily energy (caloric) requirements. 
Obviously, these needs can vary substantially,
but a general recommendation is to consume 
0.5–1.0g of carbohydrates per kg body mass.
Athletes training/competing in endurance
events require more carbohydrates than those 
engaged in resistance training.
•Depending on age and training experience, 
athletes should consume 20–40  g of protein in 
the immediate postexercise period and every 
3–5 h thereafter for the next 24  h. Food com -
binations, chocolate milk, and various dietary 
supplements can all meet these needs.
•Most athletes can benefit from daily supple -
mentation with 3–5  g with creatine monohy -
drate. This includes endurance athletes, since co-ingestion of creatine with carbohydrates 
can enhance glycogen loading.
•Strong preliminary evidence suggests that 
supplementation with l-carnitine (1–2 g/day)
may enhance recovery from acute bouts of 
intense resistance exercise.
•Although speculative at this time, CLA and
omega-3 fatty acids have strong theoretical 
bases for enhancing recovery during pro -
longed training.
References
1.Montain SJ, Coyle EF. Influence of graded dehydra -
tion on hyperthermia and cardiovascular drift during 
exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1992;73:1340–50.
2.NoseH,MorimotoT,OguraK. Distributionofwater
losses among fluid compartments of tissues under 
thermal dehydration in the rat. Jpn J Physiol. 1983;  
33:1019–29.
3.Costill DL, Sparks KE. Rapid fluid replacement
after thermal dehydration. J Appl Physiol. 1973;34:  
299–303.
4.NoseH,MackGW,ShiX,NaderER. Roleofosmo -
lality and plasma volume during rehydration in 
humans. J Appl Physiol. 1988;65:325–31.
5.Shirreffs SM, Taylor AJ, Leiper JB, Maughan RJ.
Post-exercise rehydration in man: effects of volume 
consumed and sodium content. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 1996;28:1260–71.
6.MeyerF,Bar-OrO. Fluidandelectrolytelossduring
exercise. Sports Med. 1994;18:4–9.
7.Convertino VA, Armstrong LE, Coyle EF, et al.
American College of Sports Medicine position
stand: exercise and fluid replacement. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 1996;28:i–vii.
8.CasaDJ,ArmstrongLE,HillmanSK,et al.National
Athletic Trainers’ Association position statement:
fluid replacement for athletes. J Athl Train. 2000;  
35:212–24.
9.Maughan RJ, Owen JH, Shirrefs SM, Leiper JB.
Post-exercise rehydration in man: effects of electro -
lyte addition to ingested fluids. Eur J Appl Physiol.
1994;69:209–15.
10.Yawata T. Effect of potassium solution on rehydra -
tion in rats: comparison with sodium solution and 
water. Jpn J Physiol. 1990;40:369–81.
11.Maughan RJ. Restoration of water and electrolyte
balanceafterexercise.IntJSportsMed.1998;(Suppl
2):s136–8.
12.Shirreffs SM, Maughan RJ. Rehydration and recov -
ery of fluid balance after exercise. Exerc Sport Sci
Rev. 2000;28:27.
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

296
13.MaughanRJ,LeiperJB. Post-exerciserehydrationin
man: effects of voluntary intake of four different 
beverages.MedSciSportsExerc.1993;25(Suppl):S2.
14.Vist GE, Maughan RJ. Gastric emptying of ingested
solutions in man: effect of beverage glucose concen -
tration. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1994;26:1269–73.
15.ScheettTP,WebsterMJ,WagonerKD. Effectiveness
of glycerol as a rehydrating agent. Int J Sport Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2001;11:63–71.
16.Montner P, Stark DM, Riedesel ML, et al. Pre-
exercise glycerol hydration improves cycling endur -
ance time. Int J Sports Med. 1996;17:27–33.
17.MagalM,WebsterMJ,SistrunkLE,WhiteheadMT,
Evans RK, Boyd JC. Comparison of glycerol and
water hydration regimens on tennis-related perfor -
mance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2003;35:150–6.
18.Kavouras SA, Armstrong LE, Maresh CM, et al.
Rehydration with glycerol: endocrine, cardiovascu -
lar, and thermoregulatory responses during exercise 
in the heat. J Appl Physiol. 2006;100:442–50.
19.WagnerDR. Hyperhydratingwithglycerol:implica -
tions for athletic performance. J Am Diet Assoc.
1999;99:207–12.
20.Godek SF, Bartolozzi AR, Godek JJ. Sweat rate and
fluid turnover in American football players com -
pared with runners in a hot and humid environment. 
Br J Sports Med. 2005;39:205–11.
21.Shirreffs SM, Maughan RJ. Whole body sweat col -
lection in humans: an improved method with pre -
liminary data on electrolyte content. J Appl Physiol.
1997;82:336–41.
22.Stofan JR, Zachwiega JJ, Horswill CA, et al. Sweat
and sodium losses during practice in professional 
footballplayers:fieldstudies.MedSciSportsExerc.
2002;34:S113.
23.Allan JR, Wilson CG. Influence of heat acclimatiza -
tion on sweat sodium concentration. J Appl Physiol.
1971;30:708–12.
24.Costill DL, Cote R, Miller E, Miller T, Wynder
S. Water and electrolyte replacement during repeated 
days of work in the heat. Aviat Space Environ Med.
1975;46:795–800.
25.Stofan JR, Zachwieja JJ, Horswill CA, Murray R,
AndersonSA,EichnerER. Sweatandsodiumlosses
in NCAA football players: a precursor to heat
cramps? Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2005;15:  
641–52.
26.Institute of Medicine of the National Academies.
Dietary reference intakes for water, potassium, 
sodium, chloride, and sulfate. Washington, DC: 
National Academies Press; 2004.
27.Godek SF, Godek JJ, Bartolozzi A. Thermal
responses in football and cross-country athletes dur -
ing their respective practices in a hot environment. J 
Athl Train. 2004;39:235–40.
28.NCAA Membership Service Staff. 2005-2006
NCAA division I manual. Indianapolis, IN: The
National Collegiate Athletic Association; 2005.
29.Yeargin SW, Casa DJ, Armstrong LE, et al. Heat
acclimatization and hydration status of Americanfootball players during initial summer workouts.  
J Strength Cond Res. 2006;20:463–70.
30.Casa DJ, Clarkson PM, Roberts WO. American
College of Sports Medicine roundtable on hydration 
and physical activity: consensus statements. Curr 
Sports Med Rep. 2005;4:115–27.
31.CheuvrontSN,CarterIIIR,MontainSJ,SawkaMN.
Fluid balance and endurance exercise performance. 
Curr Sports Med Rep. 2003;2:202–8.
32.Sawka MN, Burke LM, Eichner ER, Maughan RJ,
Montain SJ, Stachenfeld NS. American College of
Sports Medicine position stand: exercise and fluid 
replacement. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2007;39:  
377–90.
33.Noakes D. Fluid replacement during exercise. Exerc
Sport Sci Rev. 1993;21:297.
 34. Noakes TD, Sharwood K, Collins M, Perkins DR. 
The dipsomania of great distance: water intoxication 
in an Ironman triathlete. Br J Sports Med. 2004;38, 
E16.
 35. Speedy DB, Noakes TD, Rogers IR, et  al. 
Hyponatremia in ultradistance triathletes. Med Sci
Sports Exerc. 1999;31:809–15.
36.O’Toole M, Douglas PM, Laird RH, et al. Fluid and
electrolyte status in athletes receiving medical care 
at an ultradistance triathlon. Clin J Sport Med. 
1995;5:116–22.
37.Hew-ButlerT,AlmondC,AyusJC,et al.Consensus
statement of the 1st International Exercise-
Associated Hyponatremia Consensus Development
Conference, Cape Town, South Africa 2005. Clin J
Sport Med. 2005;15:208–13.
38.Zambraski EJ. The renal system. In: Tipton CM,
Tate CA, Terjung RL, editors. ACSM’s advanced
exercise physiology. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott
Williams & Wilkins; 2005. p. 521–32.
39.Garigan TP, Ristedt DE. Death from hyponatremia
as a result of acute water intoxication in an Army
basic trainee. Mil Med. 1999;164:234–8.
40.Speedy DB, Rogers IR, Noakes TD. Exercise-
induced hyponatremia in ultradistance triathletes is 
caused by inappropriate fluid retention. Clin J Sport 
Med. 2000;10:272–8.
41.McArdle WD, Katch FI, Katch VL. Exercise physi -
ology: energy, nutrition, and human performance. 
6th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Lippincott Williams &
Wilkins; 2007.
42.Androgue HJ, Madias NE. Hyponatremia. N Engl J
Med. 2000;342:1581.
 43. Gardner JW.  Death by water intoxication. Mil Med. 
2002;5:432.
44.Almond CS, Shin AY, Fortescue EB, et al.
Hyponatremia among runners in the Boston mara -
thon. N Engl J Med. 2005;352:1550–6.
 45. Noakes T.  Fluid replacement during marathon run -
ning. Clin J Sport Med. 2003;13:309–18.
46.Hew-ButlerTD,SharwoodK,CollinsM,SpeedyD,
Noakes T.  Sodium supplementation is not required 
to maintain serum sodium concentrations during an 
Ironman triathlon. Br J Sports Med. 2006;40:255–9.
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

297
47.Twerenbold R, Knechtle B, Kakebeeke TH, et al.
Effects of different sodium concentrations in
replacement fluids during prolonged exercise in 
women. Br J Sports Med. 2003;37:300–3.
48.Weschler LB. Exercise-associated hyponatremia: a
mathematical review. Sports Med. 2005;35:  
899–922.
 49. Barr SI, Costill DL, Fink WJ.  Fluid replacement dur -
ing prolonged exercise: effects of water, saline, or no 
fluid. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1991;23:811–7.
50.Ahlborg B, Bergstrom J, Ekelund LG, Hultman E.
Muscle glycogen and muscle electrolytes during 
prolonged physical exercise. Acta Physiol Scand.
1967;70:129–42.
51.BergstromJ,HultmanE. Synthesisofmuscleglyco -
geninmanafterglucoseandfructoseinfusion.Acta
Med Scand. 1967;182:93–107.
 52. Costill DL, Bowers R, Branam G, Sparks K.  Muscle 
glycogen utilization during prolonged exercise on 
successive days. J Appl Physiol. 1971;31:834–8.
 53. Costill DL, Sherman WM, Fink WJ, Maresh C, 
Witten M, Miller JM.  The role of dietary carbohy -
drate in muscle glycogen resynthesis after strenuous 
running. Am J Clin Nutr. 1981;34:183–6.
54.Maehlum S, Hostmark AT, Hermansen L. Synthesis
of muscle glycogen during recovery after prolonged 
severe exercise in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects. 
Scand J Clin Lab Invest. 1977;37:309–16.
55.IvyJL,KatzAL,CutlerCL,ShermanWM,CoyleEF.
Muscle glycogen synthesis after exercise: effect of 
time of carbohydrate ingestion. J Appl Physiol.
1988;64:1480–5.
56.Keizer HA, Kuipers H, van Kranenburg G, Geurten
P. Influence of liquid and solid meals on muscle gly -
cogen resynthesis, plasma fuel hormone response, 
and maximal physical working capacity. Int J Sports 
Med. 1987;8:99–104.
 57. Reed MJ, Brozinick Jr JT, Lee MC, Ivy JL.  Muscle 
glycogen storage postexercise: effect of mode of car -
bohydrate administration. J Appl Physiol. 1989;66:  
720–6.
58.Maehlum S, Hermansen L. Muscle glycogen con -
centration during recovery after prolonged severe 
exercise in fasting subjects. Scand J Clin Lab Invest. 
1978;38:557–60.
59.Blom PC, Hostmark AT, Vaage O, Kardel KR,
Maehlum S. Effect of different post-exercise sugar
diets on the rate of muscle glycogen synthesis. Med 
Sci Sports Exerc. 1987;19:491–6.
60.Bergstrom J, Hermansen L, Hultman E, Saltin
B. Diet, muscle glycogen and physical performance. 
Acta Physiol Scand. 1968;1968:71140–50.
61.Villar-Palasi C, Larner J. Uridinediphosphate glu -
cose pyrophosphorylase from skeletal muscle. Arch
Biochem Biophys. 1960;86:61–6.
62.Richter EA, Garetto LP, Goodman MN, Ruderman
NB. Enhanced muscle glucose metabolism after
exercise: modulation by local factors. Am J Physiol.
1984;246:E476–82.63.Garetto LP, Richter EA, Goodman MN, Ruderman
NB. Enhanced muscle glucose metabolism after
exercise: the two phases. Am J Physiol. 1984;  
246:E471–5.
 64. Nuttal FQ, Mooradian MC, Gannon C, Billington C, 
Krezowski P. Effect of protein ingestion on the glu -
cose and insulin response to a standardized oral glu -
cose load. Diabetes Care. 1984;7:465–70.
65.BergstromJ,HultmanE. Muscleglycogensynthesis
after exercise: an enhancing factor localized to the 
muscle cells in man. Nature. 1967;210:309–10.
66.Sherman WM, Doyle JA, Lamb DR, Strauss RH.
Dietary carbohydrate, muscle glycogen, and exer -
cise performance during 7 d of training. Am J Clin
Nutr. 1993;57:27–31.
67.Bussau VA, Fairchild TJ, Rao A, Steele P, Fournier
PA. Carbohydrate loading in human muscle: an
improved 1 day protocol. Eur J Appl Physiol.
2002;87:290–5.
68.Burke LM, Collier GR, Hargreaves M. Muscle
glycogen storage after prolonged exercise: effect of 
glycemic index of carbohydrate feedings. J Appl
Physiol. 1993;75:1019–23.
69.WilliamsMB,RavenPB,FogtDL,IvyJL. Effectsof
recovery beverages on glycogen restoration and 
endurance exercise performance. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2003;17:12–9.
70.Zawadzki KM, Yaspelkis 3rd BB, Ivy JL.
Carbohydrate-protein complex increases the rate of 
muscle glycogen storage after exercise. J Appl
Physiol. 1992;72:1854–9.
71.Wanke CA, Pleskow D, Degirolami PC, et al. A
medium chain triglyceride-based diet in patients 
with HIV and chronic diarrhea reduces diarrhea and
malabsorption: a prospective, controlled trial. 
Nutrition. 1996;12:766–71.
72.CraigGB,DarnellBE,WeinsierRL,et al.Decreased
fatandnitrogenlossesinpatientswithAIDSreceiv -
ing medium-chain-triglyceride-enriched formula vs. 
those receiving long-chain-triglyceride-containing 
formula. J Am Diet Assoc. 1997;97:605–11.
 73. Fan ST.  Review: nutritional support for patients with 
cirrhosis. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1997;12:282–6.
74.JiangZM,ZhangSY,WangXR,et al.Acomparison
of medium-chain and long-chain triglycerides in sur -
gical patients. Ann Surg. 1993;217:175–84.
75.Bach AC, Ingenbleek Y, Frey A. The usefulness of
dietary medium-chain triglycerides in body weight 
control:factorfancy?JLipidRes.1996;37:708–26.
76.Hawley JA, Brouns F, Jeukendrup A. Strategies to
enhance fat utilization during exercise. Sports Med. 
1998;25:241–57.
77.Jeukendrup AE, Thielen JJ, Wagenmakers AJ, et al.
Effectofmedium-chaintriacylglycerolandcarbohy -
drate ingestion during exercise on substrate utiliza -
tionandsubsequentcyclingperformance.AmJClin
Nutr. 1998;67:397–404.
78.West DB, Delany JP, Camet PM, et al. Effects of
conjugated linoleic acid on body fat and energy 
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

298
metabolism in the mouse. Am J Physiol. 1998;  
275(Pt 2):R667–72.
79.Park Y, Albright KJ, Liu W, et al. Effect of conju -
gated linoleic acid on body composition in mice. 
Lipids. 1997;32:853–8.
80.Ostrowski E, Muralitharan M, Cross RF. Dietary
conjugated linoleic acids increase lean tissue and 
decrease fat deposition in growing pigs. J Nutr. 
1999;129:2037–42.
81.Song HJ, Grant I, Rotondo D, Mohede I, Sattar N,
Heys SD, Wahle KW. Effect of CLA supplementa -
tion on immune function in young healthy volun -
teers. Eur J Clin Nutr. 2005;59:508–17.
82.Gavino VC, Gavino G, Leblanc MJ, Tuchweber B.
Anisomericmixtureofconjugatedlinoleicacidsbut
not pure cis-9, trans-11-octadecadienoic acid affects
body weight gain and plasma lipids in hamsters. J 
Nutr. 2000;130:27–9.
83.ParizaMW,ParkY,CookME. Mechanismsofaction
of conjugated linoleic acid: evidence and speculation. 
ProcSocExpBiolMed.2000;223:8–13.
84.RiserusU,ArnerP,BrismarK,VessbyB. Treatment
with dietary trans10-cis12 conjugated linoleic acid
causes isomer-specific insulin resistance in obese 
men with the metabolic syndrome. Diabetes Care. 
2002;25:1516–21.
85.Watt K, Garnham A, Snow R. Skeletal muscle total
creatine content and creatine transporter gene 
expression in vegetarians prior to and following cre -
atinesupplementation.IntJSportNutrExercMetab.
2004;14:517–31.
86.Persky AM, Brazeau GA, Hochhaus G. Pharma -
cokinetics of the dietary supplement creatine. Clin 
Pharmacokinet. 2003;42:557–74.
87.WilloughbyD,RoseneJ. Effectsoforalcreatineand
resistance training on myosin heavy chain expres -
sion. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2001;33:1674–81.
88.Guerrero-Ontiveros ML, Wallimann T. Creatine
supplementation in health and disease. Effects of
chronic creatine ingestion in  vivo: down-regulation 
of the expression of creatine transporter isoforms 
in skeletal muscle. Mol Cell Biochem. 1988;184:  
427–37.
 89. Murphy R, McConell G, Cameron-Smith D, et  al. 
Creatine transporter protein content, localization, 
and gene expression in rat skeletal muscle. Am J
Physiol Cell Physiol. 2001;280:C415–22.
90.Branch JD. Effect of creatine supplementation on
body composition and performance: a meta-  analysis. 
Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2003;13:198–226.
91.Kreider RB. Effects of creatine supplementation on
performance and training adaptations. Mol Cell 
Biochem. 2003;244:89–94.
92.Rawson ES, Volek JS. Effects of creatine supple -
mentation and resistance training on muscle strength 
and weightlifting performance. J Strength Cond Res. 
2003;17:822–31.
93.Green A, Hultman E, Macdonald I, Sewell D,
Greenhaff P.  Carbohydrate ingestion augments 
skeletal muscle creatine accumulation during creatine supplementation in humans. Am J Physiol. 1996;  
271(5 Pt 1):E821–6.
 94. Peral MJ, Garcia-Delgado M, Calonge ML, Durán 
JM, De La Horra MC, Wallimann T, Speer O,
Ilundáin A. Human, rat and chicken small intestinal
Na+– Cl– -creatine transporter: functional, molecular 
characterization and localization. J Physiol. 2002;  
545(1):133–44.
 95. Brault J, Terjung R.  Purine salvage to adenine nucle -
otidesindifferentskeletalmusclefibertypes.JAppl
Physiol. 2001;91:231–8.
96.Hellsten Y, Sjodin B, Richter E, Bangsbo J. Urate
uptake and lowered ATP levels in human skeletal
muscleafterhigh-intensityintermittentexercise.Am
J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 1998;274:E600–66.
97.Hellsten-WestingY,BalsomP,NormanB,SjodinB.
The effect of high-intensity training on purine 
metabolism in man. Acta Physiol Scand. 1993;149:  
405–12.
98.Tullson P, John-Alder H, Hood D, Terjung R. De
novo synthesis of adenine nucleotides in different 
skeletal muscle fiber types. Am J Physiol Cell
Physiol. 1988;255:C271–7.
99.Zarzeczny R, Brault J, Abraham K, Hancock C,
Terjung R.  Influence of ribose on adenine salvage 
after intense muscle contractions. J Appl Physiol
(1985). 2001;91:1775–81.
100.Kerksick C, Rasmussen C, Bowden R, Leutholtz B,
Harvey T, Earnest C, Greenwood M, Almada A,
KreiderR. Effectsofribosesupplementationpriorto
and during intense exercise on anaerobic capacity 
and metabolic markers. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc
Metab. 2005;15:653–64.
101.Berardi J, Ziegenfuss T. Effects of ribose supple -
mentation of repeated sprint performance in men.  
J Strength Cond Res. 2003;17:47–52.
102.Kreider R, Melton C, Greenwood M, Rasmussen C,
Lundberg J, Earnest C, Almada A. Effects of oral
D-ribose supplementation on anaerobic capacity and 
selected metabolic markers in health males. Int J 
Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2003;13:76–86.
103.Eijnde B, Van Leemputte M, Brouns F, Van Der
Vusse G, Labarque V, Ramaekers M, Van
Schuylenberg R, Verbessem P, Wijnen H, Hespel P.
No effects of oral ribose supplementation on repeated 
maximal exercise and de novo ATP resynthesis.  
J Appl Physiol. 2001;91:2275–81.
104.Kennedy G, Spence V, McLaren M, Hill A,
Underwood C, Belch J. Oxidative stress levels are
raised in chronic fatigue syndrome and are associ -
ated with clinical symptoms. Free Radic Biol Med. 
2005;9:584–98.
105.Schafer F, Buettner G. Redox environment of the
cell as viewed through the redox state of the glutathi -
one disulfide/glutathione couple. Free Radic Biol 
Med. 2001;30:1191–212.
106.Lennon SV, Martin SJ, Cotter TG. Dose-dependent
induction of apoptosis in human tumour cell lines 
by widely diverging stimuli. Cell Prolif. 1991;24:  
203–14.
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

299
107.Valko M, Morris H, Cronin M. Metals, toxicity
and oxidative stress. Curr Med Chem. 2005;12:  
1161–208.
108.Evans M, Cooke M. Factors contributing to the out -
come of oxidative damage to nucleic acids. 
Bioessays. 2004;26:533–42.
109.AlessioHM. Exercise-inducedoxidativestress.Med
Sci Sports Exerc. 1993;25:218–24.
110.DaviesKJ,QuintanihaAT,BrooksGA,PackerL.Free
radicals and tissue damage produced by exercise. 
BiochemBiophysResCommun.1982;107:1198–205.
111.Jackson MJ, Edwards RH, Symons MC. Electron
spin resonance studies of intact mammalian skeletal 
muscle. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1985;847:185–90.
112.Novelli GP, Bracciotti G, Falsini S. Spin-trappers
and vitamin E prolong endurance to muscle fatigue
in mice. Free Radic Biol Med. 1990;8:9–13.
113.Quintanilha AT. Effects of physical exercise and/or
vitamin E on tissue oxidative metabolism. Biochem
Soc Trans. 1984;12:403–4.
114.Ji LL.Exercise, oxidative stress, and antioxidants.
Am J Sports Med. 1996;24(Suppl):S20–4.
115.Fischer CP, Hiscock NJ, Penkowa M, et al.
Supplementation with vitamins C and E inhibits the
release of interleukin-6 from contracting human 
skeletal muscle. J Physiol. 2004;558:633–45.
116.BloomerRJ,GoldfarbAH,McKenzieMJ. Oxidative
stress response to aerobic exercise: comparison of 
antioxidant supplements. Med Sci Sports Exerc.
2006;38:1098–105.
117.GoldfarbAH,BloomerRJ,McKenzieMJ. Combined
antioxidant treatment effects on blood oxidative 
stressaftereccentricexercise.MedSciSportsExerc.
2005;37:234–9.
118.Sumida S, Tanaka K, Kitao H, Nakadomo F.
Exercise-induced lipid peroxidation and leakage of
enzymes before and after vitamin E supplementa -
tion. Int J Biochem. 1989;21:835–8.
119.Evans WJ, Cannon JG. The metabolic effects of
exercise-induced muscle damage. Exec Sport Sci
Rev. 1991;19:99–125.
120.TaghiyarM,DarvishiL,AskariG,FeiziA,HairiM,
Mashhadi N, Ghiasvand R.  The effect of vitamin C 
and E supplementation on muscle damage and oxi -
dative stress in female athletes: a clinical trial. Int J 
Prev Med. 2013;4:S16–23.
121.Zoppi C, Hohl R, Silva F, Lazarin F, Neto J,
Stancanneli M, Macedo D. Vitamin C and E supple -
mentation effects in professional soccer players 
under regular training. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2006;3:37–44.
122.Naziroglu M, Kilinc F, Uguz A, Celik O, Bal R,
Butterworth P, Baydar M. Oral vitamin C and E
combination modulates blood lipid peroxidation and 
antioxidant vitamin levels in maximal exercising 
basketball players. Cell Biochem Funct. 2010;28:  
300–5.
123.Thompson D, Williams C, Garcia-Roves P,
McGregorSJ,McArdleF,JacksonMJ. Post-exercise
vitamin C supplementation and recovery from demanding exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2003;89:  
393–400.
124.Close GL, Ashton T, Cable T, et al. Ascorbic acid
supplementation does not attenuate post-exercise 
muscle soreness following muscle-damaging exer -
cise but may delay the recovery process. Br J Nutr. 
2006;95:976–81.
125.Childs A, Jacobs C, Kaminski T, Halliwell B,
Leeuwenburgh C.  Supplementation with vitamin C 
and N-acetyl-cysteine increases oxidative stress in 
humans after an acute muscle injury induced by 
eccentric exercise. Free Radic Biol Med. 2001;  
15:745–53.
126.BryerSC,GoldfarbAH. Effectofhighdosevitamin
C supplementation on muscle soreness, damage, 
function, and oxidative stress to eccentric exercise. 
Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2006;16:270–80.
127.Thompson D, Williams C, McGregor SJ, et al.
Prolonged vitamin C supplementation and recovery 
from demanding exercise. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc
Metab. 2001;11:466–81.
128.Goldfarb AH, Patrick SW, Bryer S, You T. Vitamin
C supplementation affects oxidative-stress blood 
markersinresponsetoa30-minrunat75%VO2max. 
Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2005;15:279–90.
129.Hathcock JN, Azzi A, Blumberg J, et al. Vitamins E
andCaresafeacrossabroadrangeofintakes.AmJ
Clin Nutr. 2005;81:736–45.
130.Consumers Union. Is E for you? Consum Rep
Health. 1996;8:121–4.
131.Ristow M, Zarse K, Oberbach A, Lkoting N,
Birringer M, Kiehntopf M, Stumvoll M, Kahn C, 
Bluher M. Antioxidants prevent health-promoting
effects of physical exercise in humans. Proc Natl 
Acad Sci U S A. 2009;106:8665–70.
132.Steiber A, Kerner J, Hoppel C. Carnitine: a nutri -
tional, biosynthetic, and functional perspective. Mol 
Aspects Med. 2004;25:455–73.
133.Ringseis R, Keller H, Eder K. Mechanisms underly -
ing the anti-wasting effect of L-carnitine supplemen -
tation under pathologic conditions: evidence from 
experimental and clinical studies. Eur J Nutr.
2013;52:1421–42.
134.KraemerWJ,VolekJS,FrenchDN,et al.Theeffects
of L-carnitine L-tartrate supplementation on hor -
monal responses to resistance exercise and recovery. 
J Strength Cond Res. 2003;7:455–62.
135.Volek JS, Kraemer WJ, Rubin MR, Gomez AL,
Ratamess NA, Gaynor P. l-Carnitine l-tartrate sup -
plementation favorably affects markers of recovery 
from exercise stress. Am J Physiol Endocrinol
Metab. 2002;282:E474–82.
136.Spiering BA, Kraemer WJ, Vingren JL, et al.
Responses of criterion variables to different supple -
mental doses of l-carnitine l-tartrate. J Strength 
Cond Res. 2007;21:259–64.
137.Brass EP, Hiatt WR. The role of carnitine and carni -
tine supplementation during exercise in man and in 
individuals with special needs. J Am Coll Nutr.
1998;17:207–15.
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

300
138.KraemerWJ,VolekJS. l-Carnitine supplementation 
for the athlete: a new perspective. Ann Nutr Metab.
2000;44:88–9.
139.Rubin MR, Volek JS, Gomez AL, et al. Safety mea -
sures of l-carnitine l-tartrate supplementation in 
healthy men. J Strength Cond Res. 2001;15:  
486–90.
140.CuriR,LagranhaCJ,DoiSQ,SellitiDF,ProcópioJ,
Pithon-Curi TC, Corless M, Newsholme P.  Molecular 
mechanisms of glutamine action. J Cell Physiol. 
2005;204:392–400.
141.Antonio J, Sanders M, Kalman D, Woodgate D,
Street C.  The effects of high-dose glutamine inges -
tion on weightlifting performance. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2002;16:157–60.
142.Newsholme EA, Castell LM. Amino acids, fatigue
and immunosuppression in exercise. In: Maughan 
RJ, editor. Nutrition in sport, IOC encyclopedia of
sport. Oxford: Blackwell; 2000. p. 153.
143.Ardawi MSM, Newsholme EA. Metabolism in lym -
phocytes and its importance in the immune response. 
Essays Biochem. 1985;21:1–44.
144.Elia M, Wood S, Khan K, Pullicino E. Ketone body
metabolism in lean male adults during short-term 
starvation, with particular reference to forearm mus -
cle metabolism. Clin Sci. 1990;78:579–84.
145.Castell LM, Poortmans JR, Newsholme EA. Does
glutamine have a role in reducing infections in 
athletes? Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol.
1996;73:488–90.
146.Kargotich S, Goodman C, Dawson B, Morton AR,
Keast D, Joske DJ.  Plasma glutamine responses to 
high-intensity exercise before and after endurance 
training. Res Sports Med. 2005;13:287–300.
147.Rennie MJ, Edwards RHT, Krywawych S, et al.
Effect of protein turnover in man. Clin Sci (Lond).
1981;61:627–39.
148.Amores-Sanchez M, Medina M. Glutamine, as a
precursor of glutathione, and oxidative stress. Mol 
Genet Metab. 1999;67:100–5.
149.MatésJ,Pérez-GómezC,NúñezdeCastroI,Asenjo
M, Márquez v. Glutamine and its relationship with 
intracellular redox status, oxidative stress and cell 
proliferation/death. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 
2002;34:439–58.
150.Ramallo B, Charro M, Foschini D, Prestes J, Pihon-
Curi T, Evangelista A, Lopes C, Galatti L. Acute
glutamine supplementation does not affect muscle 
damage profile after resistance training. Int J Sport 
Sci. 2013;3:4–9.
151.CastellLM. Glutaminesupplementationin vitroand
in vivo, in exercise and in immunodepression. Sports 
Med. 2003;16:323–45.
152.Castell LM, Newsholme EA. The relation between
glutamine and the immunodepression observed in 
exercise. Amino Acids. 2001;20:49–61.
153.Juretic A, Spagnoli GC, Horig H, et al. Glutamine
requirements in the generation of lymphokine acti -
vated killer cells. Clin Nutr. 1994;13:42–9.154.CandowDG,ChilibeckPD,BurkeDG,DavisonKS,
Smith-Palmer T. Effect of glutamine supplementa -
tion combined with resistance training in young 
adults. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2001;86:142–9.
155.Fujita S, Rasmussen BB, Cadenas JG, Grady JJ,
Volpi E.Effect of insulin on human skeletal muscle
protein synthesis is modulated by insulin-induced 
changes in muscle blood flow and amino acid avail -
ability. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2006;291:  
E745–54.
156.Biolo G, Fleming RYD, Wolfe RR. Physiologic
hyperinsulinemia stimulates protein synthesis and 
enhances transport of selected amino acids in human 
skeletal muscle. J Clin Invest. 1995;95:811–9.
157.Claessens M, Calame W, Siemensma AD, Van Baak
MA,SarisWH. Theeffectofdifferentproteinhydro -
lysate/carbohydrate mixtures on postprandial gluca -
gon and insulin responses in healthy subjects. Eur J
ClinNutr.2009;63(1):48–56[Epub2007Sep12].
158.Manders RJ, Wagenmakers AJ, Koopman R, et al.
Co-ingestion of a protein hydrolysate and amino 
acid mixture with carbohydrate improves plasma 
glucosedisposalinpatientswithtype2diabetes.Am
J Clin Nutr. 2005;82:72–83.
159.KreiderRB,MirielV,BertunE. Aminoacidsupple -
mentation and exercise performance: analysis of the 
proposed ergogenic value. Sports Med. 1993;16:  
190–209.
160.Levenhagen DK, Carr C, Carlson MG, Maron DJ,
Borel MJ, Flakoll PJ.  Postexercise protein intake 
enhances whole-body and leg protein accretion in 
humans. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2002;34:828837.
161.Levenhagen DK, Gresham JD, Carlson MG, Maron
DJ, Borel MJ, Flakoll PJ.  Postexercise nutrient 
intake timing in humans is critical to recovery of leg 
glucose and protein homeostasis. Am J Physiol
Endocrinol Metab. 2001;280:E982–93.
162.Rasmussen BB, Tipton KD, Miller SL, Wolf SE,
Wolfe RR. An oral essential acid-carbohydrate sup -
plement enhances muscle protein anabolism after 
resistance exercise. J Appl Physiol. 2000;88:  
386–92.
163.Koopman R, Wagenmakers AJ, Manders RJ, et al.
Combined ingestion of protein and free leucine with 
carbohydrate increases postexercise muscle protein 
synthesis in vivo in male subjects. Am J Physiol
Endocrinol Metab. 2005;288:E645–53.
164.Stephens B, Braun B. Impact of nutrient intake tim -
ing on the metabolic response to exercise. Nutr Rev. 
2008;66(8):473–6.
165.Dodd KM, Tee AR. Leucine and mTORC1: a com -
plex relationship. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab.
2012;302(11):E1329–42.
166.Norton LE, Layman DK. Leucine regulates transla -
tion of protein synthesis in skeletal muscle after 
exercise. J Nutr. 2006;136:533S–7.
167.Dardevet D, Remond D, Peyron MA, Papet I,
Savary-Auzeloux I, Mosoni L. Muscle wasting and
resistance of muscle anabolism: the “anabolic 
T.N. Ziegenfuss et al.

301
threshold concept” for adapted nutritional strategies 
during sarcopenia. Sci World J. 2012;2012:269531.
168.Pasiakos SM, McClung JP. Supplemental dietary
leucine and the skeletal muscle anabolic response to 
essential amino acids. Nutr Rev. 2011;69(9):550–7.
169.GlynnEL,FryCS,DrummondMJ,et al.Excessleu -
cine intake enhances muscle anabolic signaling but 
not net protein anabolism in young men and women. 
J Nutr. 2010;140:1970–6.
170.Bird SP, Tarpenning KM, Marino FE. Independent
and combined effects of liquid carbohydrate/essen -
tial amino acid ingestion on hormonal and muscular 
adaptations following resistance training in untrained 
men. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2006;97:225–38.
171.KoopmanR,SarisWH,WagenmakersAJ,vanLoon
LJ. Nutritional interventions to promote  post-  exercise muscle protein synthesis. Sports Med. 2007;37(10):  
895–906.
172.Koopman R, Pannemans DL, Jeukendrup AE, et al.
Combined ingestion of protein and carbohydrate 
improves protein balance during ultra-endurance 
exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2004;  
287:E712–20.
173.Watford M, Wu G. Glutamine metabolism in urico -
telic species: variations in skeletal muscle gluta -
mine synthesis, glutaminase, glutamine levels and 
rates of protein synthesis. Comp Biochem Physiol B 
Biochem Mol Biol. 2005;140:607–14.
174.Jayakumar AR, Rao KV, Murthy CR, Norenberg
MD. Glutamine in the mechanisms of ammonia-  
induced astrocyte swelling. Neurochem Int. 2006;48:  
623–8.
12 Nutritional Supplements to  Enhance Recovery

303 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_13      Nutrient Timing 
           Chad     M.     Kerksick       and     Nathan     H.     Cole     
    Abstract  
  Nutrient timing is a popular strategy used by athletes, coaches, and research-
ers to maximize performance and the adaptations resulting from exercise 
training. Ingestion of key nutrients before, during, and after various forms of 
exercise has been shown to favorably impact a number of factors that go on 
to effect health, performance, and recovery. Research in this area is rapidly 
expanding, and ﬁ  ndings are changing on an annual basis. This chapter is 
broken into sections discussing current recommendations and scientiﬁ  c 
ﬁ ndings concerning the administration of macronutrients, micronutrients, 
and other non-nutrients before, during, and after both endurance and resis-
tance exercise. Finally, recommendations are put forth regarding when to 
employ various strategies, as well as whether certain strategies are worthy 
of consideration. Key points related to protein timing, caffeine timing, meal 
patterns, and caloric distribution are all cov ered in this chapter.  
  Keywords  
  Exercise   •   Nutrition   •   Timing   •   Macronutrients   •   Performance   • 
  Micronutrients   •   Nutrients  
13.1         Introduction 
 The concept of nutrient timing continues to be a 
popular area of interest for coaches and athletes, 
as well as a popular area of investigation for 
researchers. As a strategy to enhance perfor-
mance and maximize training outcomes, it has 
evolved into a full-ﬂ  edged sector of the sports 
nutrition market with numerous products being 
released touting various timing advantages. In a 
unique sense, nutrient timing is entirely based         C.  M.   Kerksick ,  PhD, CSCS *D, ATC      ( *) 
  Department of Exercise Science ,  School of Sport, 
Recreation and Exercise Sciences, Lindenwood 
University ,   St. Charles ,  MO   63301 ,  USA   
 e-mail: ckerksick@lindenwood.edu    
    N.  H.   Cole ,  BS      
     Department of Health, Exercise and Sports Sciences , 
 College of Education, University of New Mexico , 
  89 County Road A052 ,  Estancia ,  NM   87016 ,  USA   
 e-mail: ncole1@unm.edu    13

304
upon the application of information. In simplest 
terms, nutrient timing involves the purposeful 
ingestion of all types of nutrients at various times 
throughout the day to favorably impact physio-
logical and metabolic adaptations such as 
improvements in strength, power, body composi-
tion, substrate utilization, or performance. Most 
notably, these changes are discussed in the con-
text of various forms of athletic performance and 
exercise training, but it is possible that applica-
tions into unique, nonathletic populations and 
even clinical populations are possible. 
 Nutrient timing was conceptualized in the 1970s 
and 1980s with the very ﬁ  rst studies examining the 
impact of increased carbohydrate feedings on gly-
cogen status and exercise performance [ 1 ,  2 ]. 
Subsequent work explored the impact of carbohy-
drate timing on glycogen resynthesis [ 3 ], and 
while research involving proteins and amino acids 
initially lagged behind, the past 20 years have 
seen scores of publications that begin to ex plore 
the potential impact of amino acids and proteins, as 
well as their timing on adaptations to various types 
of exercise training [ 4 ,  5 ]. The majority of work 
completed to date has focused primarily on the 
macronutrients; however, the nutrient timing cate-
gory also involves the use of micronutrients as well 
as “non-nutrients” (e.g., caffeine). Thus, it is imper-
ative for the reader and other investigators to keep in 
context the inherent differences that exist between 
timing conversations related to macronutrient, 
micronutrients, and non-nutrients, particularly until 
more work is available clearly detailing the poten-
tial efﬁ  cacy of all different types of nutrients. 
Finally, several papers have been published in obese 
as well as healthy, active populations examining 
various manipulations in meal patterns and/or 
timing for their impact on muscle protein synthesis, 
weight loss, metabolic alterations, and body com-
position changes.  
13.2     Macronutrient Timing 
13.2.1     Carbohydrates 
 An argument could be made that the entire basis 
of nutrient timing started with carbohydrates 
and carbohydrate “loading.” Moderate-to-high- intensity activities rely extensively upon carbo-
hydrate metabolism to provide necessary fuel, 
and as a result, glycogen stores found in the liver 
and muscle are of high importance. Because typ-
ical endogenous stores can readily supply the 
fuel for activities lasting 60–90 min [ 6 ], main-
taining adequate carbohydrate intake is an 
extremely important consideration for a number 
of athletes. Current dietary recommendations for 
carbohydrate loading include consuming a diet 
that provides 8–10 g per kilogram of body mass 
daily for a period of 3–4 days, assuming no 
appreciable amounts of muscle damage have 
occurred [ 4 ,  7 ]. Other common recommendations 
call for an athlete to consume 55–65 % of their 
daily caloric intake as carbohydrates, but this 
strategy comes with a caveat, namely, that the 
athlete is consuming enough total kilocalories 
(kcals). It should be noted that much of the rec-
ommendations for carbohydrate intake are based 
on the needs of endurance athletes. Perhaps those 
involved in strength-power sports need a lower 
intake of carbohydrate, but more research is 
required. Nonetheless, a number of reports indi-
cate that athletes are often challenged to con-
sume enough kcals and carbohydrates [ 7 ,  8 ], and 
as a result, strategies to quickly replenish lost 
carbohydrate may be warranted, particularly for 
athletes who need rapid replenishment to maxi-
mize their performance. 
 The    practice of carbohydrate “loading” dates to 
the 1970s with Karlsson and Saltin ﬁ  rst reporting 
that a period of high volume exercise training for 
3–4 days followed by a diet providing >70 % car-
bohydrate, or 8–10 g per kilogram of body weight 
per day, while sharply reducing training volume 
facilitated supersaturation of muscle glycogen and 
an improved pace of training for more prolonged 
periods of time [ 2 ]. A number of more practical 
modiﬁ  cations to this approach have since been 
proposed, ﬁ  rst by Sherman in a pair of studies [ 1 ,  9 ] 
and later by Bussau in 2002 [ 10 ]. These authors 
reported that no “glycogen depletion” phase was 
necessary, and simply reducing training volume 
for 3–4 days while consuming a very high-carbo-
hydrate diet (8–10 g per kilogram of body mass 
per day) for 1–3 days was sufﬁ  cient to maximize 
muscle glycogen stores. Overall, the ability of 
carbohydrate loading strategies to rapidly increase C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

305
and maximize muscle glycogen levels is currently 
unquestioned, and a number of athletes and 
coaches are encouraged to consider making use of 
such a dietary regimen in the days leading up to a 
competitive event. 
 The preexercise phase leading up to a competi-
tive event is an important period for feeding con-
siderations. Overall, carbohydrate feedings 
undisputedly facilitate increased muscle glycogen 
levels and help to maintain blood glucose levels, 
though deﬁ  nitive and consistent reports indicating 
an improvement in performance are still some-
what lacking. Typically, it is recommended for 
athletes to consume high- carbohydrate meals, 
foods, or liquids during this period of time, and 
this is of increased importance when other recov-
ery efforts (e.g., low- carbohydrate intake, failure 
to rest or reduce training volume, lack of adequate 
sleep, etc.) have been neglected. In 1985, Coyle 
reported that consumption of a high-carbohydrate 
meal 4 h prior to exercise after an overnight fast 
signiﬁ  cantly increased both muscle and liver gly-
cogen [ 11 ]. In addition to increasing stored glyco-
gen, other studies have reported signiﬁ  cant 
improvements in aerobic exercise performance 
[ 12 – 14 ]. For these reasons, it is commonly rec-
ommended to consume snacks or meals high in 
carbohydrate at dosages ranging from 1 to 4 g 
of carbohydrate per kilogram of body mass for 
several hours before exercise [ 7 ,  15 ]. 
 As the preexercise time period shrinks to 
within 4 h prior to the start of activity, other con-
siderations are needed. In particular, the athlete 
must be cautious of overwhelming the digestive 
system with too much food or ﬂ  uid immediately 
prior to exercise. Many prolonged endurance 
races begin early in the morning, and ﬁ  nding the 
right balance between optimal sleep and food 
intake is something each athlete should experi-
ment with prior to the day of competition. A cer tain 
level of dogma still pervades some recommenda-
tions regarding the intake of the correct form of 
carbohydrate prior to an event. At its source, 
Foster and colleagues in 1979 ﬁ  rst reported a 
negative, hypoglycemic response to carbohydrate 
ingestion directly preceding (<60 min) exercise 
[ 16 ]. Since that report, it is commonly indicated 
that too much carbohydrate consumption in the 
initial hours before exercise may negatively impact exercise performance. A subsequent 
review by Hawley and Burke in 1997 examined a 
number of studies providing some form of carbo-
hydrate at least 60 min prior to beginning a bout 
of exercise and concluded no negative impact on 
performance had been established. In fact, many 
studies reported that performance may actually 
increase anywhere from 7 to 20 % [ 17 ]. A 2013 
double-blind, placebo- controlled study by 
Galloway compared the effects of a placebo to a 
6.4 % carbohydrate beverage ingested 30 or 
120 min prior to a standardized bout of cycling 
exercise at 90 % peak power output. The authors 
reported that when the carbohydrate beverage 
was consumed 30 min before the exercise bout, 
exercise capacity was signiﬁ  cantly greater than 
all other times [ 18 ]. 
 Once the exercise bout or competition period 
begins, a number of factors will dictate the extent 
to which timing should be considered. The major-
ity of research has explored such manipulations 
in the context of continuous aerobic exercise, and 
while it is evident that optimal carbohydrate 
availability can drive performance in nearly all 
sporting activities, the physiological require-
ments of the sport or activity will dictate the 
overall impact of nutrient timing. This is an 
important point to highlight, as nutrient timing 
research may have different implications for any 
number of individual or team sports that regu-
larly have breaks between quarters, halves, or 
throughout the course of play that can allow for 
short, discrete periods of feeding. In regard to 
continuous exercise, a number of studies have 
provided information indicating that the pattern 
or timing of carbohydrate feedings may be 
important. For example, Fielding and investiga-
tors in 1985 required cyclists to ingest the same 
dose of carbohydrate every 30 min or every hour 
over the course of a 4-h exercise bout. When car-
bohydrate was ingested more frequently, perfor-
mance was improved [ 19 ]. 
 Two additional studies nicely highlight a 
number of practical considerations relative to 
carbohydrate feeding and exercise performance. 
Febbraio et al. in 2000 required study participants 
to complete four carbohydrate feedings and exer-
cise conditions in conjunction with a 2-h bout of 
cycling exercise at 63 % of their peak power [ 20 ]. 13 Nutrient Timing

306
The authors concluded that preexercise carbohy-
drate ingestion only increased exercise perfor-
mance when carbohydrate ingestion continued 
throughout the 2-h exercise bout. Therefore, the 
ﬁ ndings of this study somewhat prioritized car-
bohydrate feeding during the exercise bout, as 
performance was improved in both situations 
when carbohydrate was delivered during activity. 
Thus, to some extent, one might argue that if an 
individual fails to adequately consume carbohy-
drates prior to the exercise bout, then employing 
an aggressive feeding strategy throughout exer-
cise may help to offset the potential for perfor-
mance detriment. Too much consumption of 
ﬂ uid, however, may challenge the storage ability 
of the stomach resulting in gastrointestinal 
cramping and discomfort; thus athletes and 
coaches must experiment with the optimal pat-
tern of consumption. Another study by Widrick 
and colleagues combined the impact of preexer-
cise muscle glycogen with carbohydrate feeding 
throughout a prolonged bout of exercise [ 21 ]. In 
this study, participants began a 70-km self-paced 
time trial with either high or low levels of muscle 
glycogen. Then, in each respective condition, a 
carbohydrate or placebo beverage was provided. 
As one might expect, the greatest power outputs 
were recorded when exercise was started with 
high levels of muscle glycogen, and even greater 
power outputs were reported when carbohydrate 
was provided regularly throughout the exercise 
protocol. Similarly, times to exhaustion were 
greatest when muscle glycogen levels were high 
and next when carbohydrate was provided 
throughout the exercise bout. Key take-away 
messages from these two studies tell us ﬁ  rst that 
preexercise levels of muscle glycogen are very 
important. Additionally, a preexercise meal 
doesn’t hurt performance, but may only help per-
formance if carbohydrate is provided throughout 
the exercise bout. Both studies also tell us that if 
insufﬁ  cient recovery or poor dietary efforts occur 
prior to activity, that consuming carbohydrate 
throughout a bout of exercise will effectively 
work to maintain and potentially enhance exer-
cise performance, but this is dependent upon the 
overall state of recovery. 
 Postexercise ingestion of carbohydrate is a pop-
ular nutrient timing strategy intended to facilitate maximal recovery of lost muscle glycogen. In 
1998, Ivy published a seminal paper that showed 
faster and more complete restoration of muscle 
glycogen over a 4-h postexercise period when the 
carbohydrate dose was delivered within 30 min 
of completing the exercise bout versus waiting 
until 2 h after the activity before consuming an 
identical amount of carbohydrate [ 22 ]. Since that 
time, other published studies have shown that 
postexercise timing remains important, primarily 
when fast glycogen restoration is required, or 
only an inadequate amount of carbohydrate is 
available. In this respect, a carbohydrate intake of 
0.6–1.0 g of carbohydrate per kilogram of body 
mass within the ﬁ  rst 30 min of completing a gly-
cogen depleting exercise bout and again every 
2 h for the next 4–6 h has been shown to ade-
quately replace muscle glycogen stores [ 23 ,  24 ]. 
Other studies have recommended a similar but 
more aggressive strategy in which 1.2 g of carbo-
hydrate per kilogram of body mass was ingested 
every 30 min over a 3.5-h period to maximally 
replenish lost muscle glycogen [ 23 ,  25 ]. A key 
pragmatic point underlying these strategies, how-
ever, is the need for a rapid restoration of glyco-
gen. From a substrate availability and restoration 
perspective, studies show that maximal glycogen 
levels are restored within 24 h if a diet containing 
8 g of carbohydrate per kilogram of body weight 
is provided, and only moderate levels of muscle 
damage are present [ 26 ]. Similarly, Nicholas and 
investigators reported that a daily carbohydrate 
intake of 9–10 g of carbohydrate per kilogram of 
body mass was adequate to replace lost muscle 
glycogen in athletes completing consecutive days 
of intense exercise [ 27 ]. Certainly, the impact of 
timing to blunt cortisol production, inﬂ  amma-
tion, and proteolytic cascades is an attractive 
supposition, but more research is needed to fully 
discuss these possibilities.  
13.2.2     Carbohydrate and Protein 
 Consuming a combination of protein and carbo-
hydrate continues to be a popular strategy for 
both endurance and strength and power athletes. 
Regarding endurance exercise, there is currently 
limited research available exploring the provision C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

307
of protein or amino acids prior to endurance-style 
exercise, but research is available examining the 
impact of carbohydrate and protein combinations 
throughout such exercise. One study required 
participants to cycle at 45–75 %    VO 2Max  for 3 h 
before completing a time-to-exhaustion trial at 
85 % VO 2Max . A 7.75 % carbohydrate solution or 
a 7.75 % carbohydrate + 1.94 % protein solution 
was consumed at regular intervals throughout the 
exercise bout, and while carbohydrate ingestion 
improved time to exhaustion, the addition of pro-
tein led to signiﬁ  cantly improved endurance [ 28 ]. 
Using similar nutritional combinations, Saunders 
and colleagues had participants complete two 
separate exhaustive bouts of cycling exercise 
within a 24-h time period and concluded that 
when a combination of carbohydrate and protein 
was consumed, performance was signiﬁ  cantly 
improved and muscle damage was signiﬁ  cantly 
reduced [ 29 ]. Additionally, Koopman et al. in 
2004 also found that adding protein to carbohy-
drate resulted in signiﬁ  cantly improved protein 
balance in a 6-h ultra-endurance event [ 30 ]. 
 From a postexercise perspective, Ivy and 
coworkers in 2002 completed a study that 
required cyclists to complete a 2.5-h bout of 
cycling before consuming varying combinations 
of carbohydrate, protein, and fat. The groups 
were developed to match total energy intake, as 
well as carbohydrate and fat intake, to effectively 
determine the impact of providing protein at an 
approximate 3.5:1 ratio (carbohydrates to pro tein). 
From this work, Ivy’s research group concluded 
that the addition of protein facilitated greater 
restoration of lost muscle glycogen [ 31 ,  32 ]. 
These ﬁ  ndings were later supported by two simi-
lar studies published by Berardi [ 33 ,  34 ], who 
concluded that providing a combination of carbo-
hydrate and protein facilitated greater recovery of 
muscle glycogen when ingested soon after com-
pletion of a workout and prior to a subsequent 
exercise bout. These results were somewhat 
refuted by Jentjens and colleagues, who failed to 
show an improvement in muscle glycogen resto-
ration with a combination of carbohydrate (1.2 g 
of carbohydrate per kilogram of body mass per 
hour) and protein (0.4 g of protein per kilogram of 
body mass per hour) in comparison to providing 
carbohydrate alone over a 3-h recovery period [ 24 ]. These ﬁ  ndings involving a combination 
of carbohydrate and protein at the exact same 
dosage were later supported by Howarth et al. 
and extended to illustrate that a greater rate of 
carbohydrate ingestion (1.6 g of carbohydrate per 
kilogram of body mass per hour) did not further 
augment muscle glycogen changes [ 35 ]. An 
important difference between the studies con-
ducted by Jentjens and Howarth and the studies 
conducted by Ivy and Berardi was that the 
Jentjens and Howarth studies provided a higher 
dose of carbohydrates, which was likely the key 
factor resulting in optimal recovery of muscle 
glycogen. As it stands, adding protein to carbo-
hydrate has been shown to favorably impact mus-
cle glycogen recovery and maximize the rate of 
muscle glycogen resynthesis, but this effect may 
be eliminated when adequate amounts of carbo-
hydrate are provided. If fast recovery of muscle 
glycogen is truly needed, then the work of 
Jentjens in 2001 [ 24 ] supported some of the fast-
est rates of glycogen recovery, which involved 
high amounts of carbohydrates being delivered 
every 30 min for a 3.5-h time period. In addition, 
the work of Saunders seems to indicate that the 
addition of protein to carbohydrate may favor-
ably impact muscle damage [ 29 ], but more work 
is needed to fully explore the impact of carbohy-
drate and protein combinations on this endpoint, 
as the 2001 work of Jentjens did not incorporate 
an assessment of muscle damage. Toward this 
point, greater rates of postexercise muscle pro-
tein synthesis were reported when protein (0.4 g 
of protein per kilogram of body mass per hour) 
was added to carbohydrate (1.2 g of carbohydrate 
per kilogram of body mass per hour), as com-
pared to an identical dose of carbohydrate alone 
or a larger, isoenergetic dose of carbohydrate 
(1.6 g of carbohydrate per kilogram of body mass 
per hour). While not a true question of timing, the 
coingestion of carbohydrates and protein during 
the postexercise window remains a popular strat-
egy for athletes, and subsequent review articles 
have highlighted the fact that ingestion of protein 
may help to potentiate intramuscular adaptations 
that can go on to impact changes in performance, 
such as mitochondrial biogenesis [ 36 ,  37 ]. 
Whether or not the postexercise strategy of pro tein 
ingestion is a determinative factor remains up for 13 Nutrient Timing

308
debate, while subsequent sections of this chapter 
will further discuss considerations related to 
protein timing.  
13.2.3     Protein 
 When Kevin Tipton and researchers at the 
University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, 
TX, published a paper suggesting that higher rates 
of muscle protein synthesis were achieved when a 
combination of 35 g of carbohydrate and 6 g of 
essential amino acids was ingested immediately 
before a single bout of lower body resistance exer-
cise, as compared to ingesting them immediately 
after the same exercise bout, they blew the prover-
bial top off the popularity of nutrient timing [ 38 ]. 
Up until that time, the majority of the focus was 
placed upon the postexercise time period as the 
most important window for nutrient consumption. 
Since that time, an entire category of sports nutri-
tion products has evolved, and the formulations 
have grown to include various combinations of 
protein, carbohydrates, caffeine, creatine, beta-
alanine, and other nutrients. A few years later, a 
very similar paper was published by Fujita and 
colleagues, which refuted the initial report by 
Tipton, and concluded that ingestion of carbohy-
drates and essential amino acids immediately 
before or immediately after a single bout of resis-
tance exercise both signiﬁ  cantly increased rates of 
muscle protein synthesis, with no difference 
between the two time periods [ 39 ]. 
 Nonetheless, several examples of well- 
controlled studies have been published in peer- 
reviewed journals highlighting changes in 
resistance training performance after pre- workout 
ingestion of nutrients. For example, Gonzalez 
and investigators had eight resistance-trained 
college-aged men complete a single workout 
consisting of four sets of no more than ten repeti-
tions using the squat and bench press and con-
cluded that a mixture of caffeine, creatine, 
beta-alanine, and the branched-chain amino acids 
(BCAAs) resulted in a signiﬁ  cantly greater num-
ber of repetitions being completed in addition to 
increasing average and peak power outputs [ 40 ]. 
Ormbsee and colleagues have recently published two papers from the same study showing that 
ingesting a pre-workout formulation versus a pla-
cebo over a 6-week period of heavy resistance 
training resulted in signiﬁ  cantly greater increases 
in lean mass, fat-free mass, and peak anaerobic 
power [ 41 ,  42 ]. Similarly, University of Tampa 
scientists reported that 8 weeks of supplementing 
with a combination of BCAAs, creatine, beta- 
alanine, quercetin, nitrate sources, alanyl- l - 
glutamine, and B vitamins while completing a 
whole-body heavy resistance training program 
signiﬁ  cantly improved strength while generating 
greater improvements in lean mass and muscle 
thickness [ 43 ]. Lastly, a team of investigators 
supplemented study participants in a pre-workout 
fashion with a combination of beta-alanine, 
BCAAs, nitrates, caffeine, choline, and cinna-
mon extract and concluded that pre-workout sup-
plementation increased reaction time, muscular 
endurance, and feelings of energy while reducing 
feelings of fatigue [ 44 ]. Exploring another angle, 
an interesting study by Hackney and colleagues 
compared the impact of carbohydrate or protein 
consumption prior to a single bout of resistance 
exercise in a group of eight healthy, college-aged 
men and women and reported that preexercise 
protein ingestion signiﬁ  cantly increased resting 
energy expenditure rates when compared to car-
bohydrate ingestion [ 45 ]. At present, several 
papers are available that have purposefully deliv-
ered single or combined nutrients prior to bouts 
of resistance training, but limited research is 
available to allow for a better determination of 
the comparative impact of disparate nutrients 
ingested preexercise. Until that research becomes 
available, and spans several weeks to months of 
resistance training while providing differential 
supplementation, the overall impact of this nutri-
ent timing strategy will be poorly understood. 
 When it comes to ingesting nutrients during 
resistance exercise, only a limited number of stud-
ies are available. Initial research by Greg Haff and 
a team of colleagues in 2000 had resistance- 
trained males consume a noncaloric placebo or a 
carbohydrate solution at a dose of 1 g of carbohy-
drate per kilogram of body mass before, and 
every 10 min during, a single bout of resistance 
exercise. When compared to the placebo group, C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

309
muscle glycogen levels were 49 % higher, and an 
overall higher volume of training was completed 
when carbohydrate was consumed throughout the 
exercise bout [ 46 ]. A few years later, a research 
group led by Stephen Bird had 32 untrained, 
young participants consume a combination of 
carbohydrate and protein, carbohydrate alone, or 
a noncaloric placebo during a 6-min bout of resis-
tance training and then compared changes in 
blood and urine samples. Carbohydrate was pro-
vided at a standard dose of 6 % carbohydrate, 
while added protein consisted of 6 g of the essen-
tial amino acids. Cortisol levels increased by 
105 % in the placebo group, while increases in the 
carbohydrate (11 %) and the carbohydrate + pro-
tein group (7 %) were signiﬁ  cantly reduced. 
Urinary levels of muscle protein breakdown were 
decreased by 27 % in the carbohydrate + protein 
group, with a corresponding 56 % increase in the 
placebo group [ 47 ,  48 ]. Similarly, signiﬁ  cant 
reductions in whole-body protein breakdown 
were found when a combination of carbohydrate 
and protein hydrolysate was ingested during a 2-h 
bout of resistance exercise. These changes, over-
all, resulted in a more positive net balance of pro-
tein and signiﬁ  cantly greater rates (49 % higher) 
of muscle protein fractional synthetic rates when 
a combination of carbohydrate + protein was 
ingested [ 49 ]. No studies, to date, have examined 
the impact of ingesting a combination of carbohy-
drate + protein during several weeks of resistance 
training on changes in strength, performance, and 
body composition, and ﬁ  ndings from this type of 
work will greatly strengthen our understanding of 
the impact of consuming nutrients throughout 
resistance training. 
 Upon fully considering the popularity of nutri ent 
timing, it is surprising to highlight that no pub-
lished studies are yet available in which research-
ers have directly examined the impact of ingesting 
various individual or combined nutrients before, 
during, or after prolonged resistance training. 
One exception is a 12-week study published by 
Esmark and investigators, in which 13 elderly 
men (average age of 74 years) consumed a small 
combination of carbohydrates (7 g), proteins 
(10 g), and fats (3 g) either immediately (within 
30 min) or 2 h after bouts of resistance exercise. The authors examined changes in strength, muscle 
size, etc. and concluded that when nutrients were 
ingested immediately after the exercise bout, 
greater changes in strength and muscle cross-
sectional area occurred [ 50 ]. While interesting 
and exciting, these overall ﬁ  ndings have been 
questioned due to the lack of typical and expected 
adaptations that have been shown to occur when 
a population of elderly individuals resistance 
train for this period of time. 
 Without question, a number of studies are 
available that have examined the impact of pro-
viding protein or a combination of protein and 
carbohydrate after resistance exercise over the 
course of several weeks of resistance training. 
Consistently, these studies tell us that providing 
a 15–40-g dose of a high-quality protein in con-
junction with a workout program consisting of 
heavy resistance training will facilitate improve-
ments in strength, endurance, power, and body 
composition [ 51 – 55 ]; furthermore, a recent sys-
tematic review has been published in support of 
this thesis [ 5 ]. Adding support, a number of 
studies have published data indicating signiﬁ  -
cant increases in rates of muscle protein synthe-
sis after ingestion of single doses of the essential 
amino acids alone (typical dosages of 6–12 g) or 
in combination with carbohydrates. In addition 
to maximizing muscle protein synthesis, inges-
tion of essential amino acids at these dosages, 
whether immediately after or up to 3 h post-
workout, has been shown to cause signiﬁ  cant 
improvements in overall muscle protein balance 
[ 56 – 58 ]. In conclusion, compelling evidence 
suggests that ingesting essential amino acids with 
or without carbohydrate immediately 1, 2, or 3 h 
after exercise all have the potential to maximally 
stimulate increases in muscle protein synthesis 
[ 31 ,  38 ,  56 ,  59 ,  60 ]. 
 From a timing perspective, in conjunction 
with resistance training, no study seemed to 
better illustrate the potential impact of timing 
than that published by Cribb [ 61 ]. In this investi-
gation, the authors required two groups of males 
involved in recreational bodybuilding to com-
plete several weeks of resistance training while 
supplementing with the exact same nutrients. 
The primary difference between these groups 13 Nutrient Timing

310
was that one ingested their nutrients immediately 
before and immediately after each workout 
 session, while the other study group ingested 
their nutrients in the morning and evening of each 
workout day. Independent of how the nutrients 
were ingested, both groups experienced favor-
able increases in strength and lean mass. When 
these groups were compared, however, the group 
that ingested the provided nutrients at times 
closely surrounding each training bout experi-
enced signiﬁ  cantly greater increases in lean mass, 
maximal strength, and muscle cross-sectional 
area [ 61 ]. For a few years, these results were 
strongly considered as evidence that nutrient 
 timing was a favorable strategy to optimize wide-
spread positive adaptations to resistance training. 
In 2009, Jay Hoffman and his team of investiga-
tors published a near-identical study using trained 
collegiate athletes and reported that no differ-
ences in performance or body composition were 
observed between the group of athletes ingesting 
protein timed close to each workout and the 
group of athletes consuming identical nutrients in 
the morning and evening of training days [ 62 ]. 
A closer analysis of this research highlighted the 
fact that the study participants in the Hoffman 
study were already ingesting a level of daily pro-
tein that met current protein recommendation for 
strength and power athletes [ 63 ], while the par-
ticipants in the Cribb study were ingesting less 
than the recommended amounts. Thus, as it 
stands and much like with carbohydrate, dispa-
rate timing strategies may offer secondary impor-
tance to ingesting recommended amounts of 
protein on a daily basis when considering changes 
in performance, lean tissue accretion, and body 
composition. 
 In summary, a large number of studies have 
been published documenting positive outcomes 
associated with the ingestion of single as well as 
repeated doses of protein surrounding resistance 
exercise. Recent review articles published by 
Aragon [ 64 ] and Schoenfeld [ 65 ] have ques-
tioned the popular acceptance of recommenda-
tions suggesting that protein timing differentiates 
positive adaptations to several weeks of resis-
tance training. It should be noted that this is spe-
ciﬁ cally in reference to the “anabolic window” that ostensi bly occurs 1 h or less post-workout 
and doesn’t neces sarily relate to recommenda-
tions made related to protein timing and meal 
patterns (discussed later in chapter) and other 
nutrients and non-nutrients. While debate can 
ensue as to whether or not protein timing is 
indeed beneﬁ  cial within this narrow range, the 
authors make an excellent point in that, similar 
to what is known about carbohydrate ingestion, 
when recommended levels of protein are con-
sumed, the impact of timing appears to be at best, 
minimal, and, at worst, nonexistent. However, 
when one examines the few studies in which pro-
tein intake is matched between the control and 
treatment groups, the evidence suggests that tim-
ing either increases skeletal muscle size or has a 
neutral effect. Thus, from a purely pragmatic 
standpoint, it would make sense to utilize a nutri-
ent timing strategy (i.e., the speciﬁ  c post- workout 
window) rather than dismiss it. In fact, Schoenfeld 
et al. [ 65 ] concluded that “Since causality cannot 
be directly drawn from our analysis, however, 
we must acknowledge the possibility that pro-
tein timing was in fact re sponsible for producing 
a positive effect and that the associated increase in 
protein intake is merely coincidental.” Certainly, 
the need for more training studies spanning sev-
eral weeks that utilize sound methodology, 
matching of protein intake, and dou ble-blind, 
randomized approaches is present.  
13.2.4     Fat 
13.2.4.1     Timing of Fat Intake for Health 
 The prevalence rates of overweight and obese 
individuals continue to rise, both in the United 
States and globally. While a multitude of activity, 
nutrition, genetic, and lifestyle factors contribute 
to this change, patterns of sleep and eating con-
tinue to be explored as contributing factors. In the 
context of nutrient timing and providing meals 
with varying fat contents at various points 
throughout the day, a small handful of studies 
have examined outcomes in both animals and 
humans to determine the impact of fat timing on 
factors related to health, weight loss, body com-
position, etc. For example, Arble and colleagues C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

311
reported that limiting high-fat intake to the period 
of time when laboratory mice were typically 
inactive and/or sleeping resulted in signiﬁ  cantly 
greater weight gain than when high-fat meals 
were given during a time when the mice were 
typically more active [ 66 ]. Bray et al. in 2010 fed 
laboratory mice either a control diet or a high-fat 
diet in various patterns intended to simulate sce-
narios in which high-fat meals were delivered 
toward the beginning or end of the active period 
for each animal. These authors concluded that 
when a high-fat meal was given at the end of the 
active phase for each animal, versus the begin-
ning, then weight gain, adiposity, and glucose 
intolerance were all increased in addition to other 
negative changes in various factors related to car-
diometabolic syndrome [ 67 ]. 
 From a human perspective, an observational 
study of 375 male and 492 female study partici-
pants had a 7-day food record analyzed for the 
proportion of energy and macronutrient ingestion 
over the course of a 24-h period. Speciﬁ  cally 
related to fat intake, the authors reported that 
when a higher proportion of fat was ingested in 
the morning, then less total energy, carbohydrate, 
and fat were ingested across the day. Conversely, 
a proportionally high-fat intake in the evening 
was associated with a high overall rate of caloric 
intake [ 68 ].  
13.2.4.2     Timing of Fat Intake 
for Performance 
 High-fat diets (typically deﬁ  ned as ≥50 % total 
energy intake from fat) have been examined a 
great deal for their potential ability to impact 
physical performance. The basis of this dietary 
regimen is grounded on solid rationale, namely, 
that higher fat intakes will enhance intramuscular 
triglyceride levels, increase their rate of utiliza-
tion, and subsequently preserve muscle glycogen 
[ 69 ]. For example, previous studies have reported 
that eating a high-fat (~65–70 % of energy), low- 
carbohydrate (<2.5 g/kg/day) diet for 2–4 weeks 
can markedly increase fat oxidation and reduce 
utilization of muscle glycogen during the latter 
stages of a submaximal exercise bout [ 70 ,  71 ]. 
A number of scientiﬁ  c reviews have reported upon 
the impact of dietary fat intake and fat loading, leading to a general consensus that short-term 
and long-term high-fat diets do promote higher 
fat oxidation, but can, at best, maintain perfor-
mance and in multiple instances have been shown 
to actually decrease performance [ 72 ]. Other 
reports have also highlighted that while fat load-
ing may be based on intriguing theory, the lack of 
performance improvements alongside consistent 
reports of ergolytic outcomes typically discour-
ages the practice of fat loading [ 7 ]. 
 More speciﬁ  cally, several papers have 
attempted to explore combinations of high-fat 
diets preceded by short-term periods of carbohy-
drate loading [ 73 ]. Results from these strategies 
have been mixed, and data from both Burke and 
Havemann indicate that unfavorable changes in 
carbohydrate metabolism can result [ 74 ]. 
Additionally, while performance in a 100-km 
time trial is not impacted, the equally important 
ability of endurance athletes to complete short 
periods of high-intensity work can be compro-
mised [ 75 ]. An excellent editorial by Burke and 
Kiens succinctly summarizes this data [ 73 ]. 
 Note Table  13.1  for a variety of study design 
selections regarding viable macronutrient timing 
options.
13.3          Micronutrient Timing 
 While much of the academic attention devoted to 
nutrient timing has centered exclusively on the 
macronutrients, especially protein and carbohy-
drates, there is emerging research suggesting that 
timing may also inﬂ  uence the impact of various 
micronutrients and non-nutrient dietary com-
pounds. As can be expected, the number of stud-
ies available at this point in time is quite low, 
which only underscores the relative infancy of 
nutrient timing research, as well as the potential 
for further investigation in these areas. The next 
section will discuss the research of micronutri-
ents, followed by a summary of timing consider-
ations involving non-nutrients. 
 Because certain endurance exercise modali-
ties, particularly cycling, have been associated 
with a negative effect on bone mineral density, 
Barry et al. (2011) compared the impact of 13 Nutrient Timing

312
   Table 13.1    Summary table of selected studies examining timing of macronutrients   
 Reference  Subjects  Study design  Duration  Nutrient  Outcome/comments 
 Schoenfeld 
et al. [ 65 ]  • 23 studies ( n  = 525) 
examining strength 
 • 20 studies ( n  = 478) 
examining hypertrophy  Meta-analysis  N/A  Protein  • Strength: no effect 
 • Hypertrophy: total protein intake was 
strongest predictor 
 • ND between treatment and control 
for strength or hypertrophy 
 Weisgarber 
et al. [ 114 ]  • 17 healthy young adults 
 • No RT for 6 weeks prior  Randomized, double-
blind, repeated 
measures, placebo 
controlled  4 d/wk for 8 w  • Protein 
 (0.3 g/kg WPI w/ 0.15 g/
kg essential AAs) 
 • 50 % of total daily 
dose before and after     • Signiﬁ  cant ↑ in muscle mass and 
some strength measures 
 • ND between groups 
 Jakubowicz 
et al. [ 100 ]  • 93 obese/overweight 
women 
 • 45.8 ± 7.1 years 
 • All have metabolic 
syndrome  Randomized, open-
label, parallel-arm 
design  • 12 weeks 
 • 2 isocaloric diets 
(~1,400 kcal) 
 • 50 % kcals w/breakfast 
 • 50 % kcals w/dinner  Mixed meals  • Breakfast: ↑ weight loss, ↓ waist 
circumference, and ↓ blood 
triglyceride 
 • Daily glucose, insulin, ghrelin, and 
mean hunger scores were 
signiﬁ  cantly lower in breakfast group 
 • Higher mean satiety scores in the 
breakfast group 
 Moore 
et al. [ 112 ]  • 24 male subjects 
participating in regular 
high-intensity resistance 
training 
 • 4–6 x/wk  Randomized grouping  Leg ext (4 × 10 at 80 % 1RM, 
3-min rest b/w sets 80-g WPI 
over 12 h in three patterns: 
 • 8 × 10g/90 min 
 • 4 × 20g/3 h 
 • 2 × 40g/6 h  Whey protein isolate  • ND in net protein balance between 
groups 
 • Small to moderate effect for 8 × 10g 
or 4 × 20g 
 Mamerow 
et al. [ 115 ]  • 8 healthy adult men [ 5 ] 
and women [ 3 ] 
 • 36.9 ± 3.1 y 
 • BMI: 25.7 ± 0.8  Randomized 7-d 
crossover feeding study 
with a 30-d washout 
period  • 7-d crossover w/30-d 
washout 
 • 24-h diet with protein 
skewed to dinner or 
evenly distributed  Protein 
 (feeding study)  • 24-h mixed muscle FSR was 25 % ↑ 
with even distribution of protein 
 • Daily protein intake: ~1.2 g/kg 
 • The animal-to-vegetable protein ratio 
was ~2:1 C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

313 Reference  Subjects  Study design  Duration  Nutrient  Outcome/comments 
 Bray et al. 
[ 67 ]  Male wild-type mice  • Randomly assigned 
to one of four groups 
 • Access to low- or 
high-fat diets in 
various diurnal 
patterns  • 12 weeks 
 • Mice were fed either a 
high-fat or control diet in 
a time-of-day- dependent 
manner  Lipid 
 (dietary)  • Independent of feeding patterns, 
food intake and energy expenditure 
were spontaneously adjusted 
 • Altered dietary composition during 
the active period markedly inﬂ  uences 
metabolic health 
 Res et al. 
 2012 [ 116 ]  16 healthy, young, 
recreationally active men  Randomized, parallel 
group design  • Single RT bout at 2,000 h 
 • Post-RT recovery meal 
delivered 30 min before 
sleep (2,330 h) with 40 g 
protein or PLA  • Phenylalanine-
labeled casein 
protein  • Protein ingested immediately before 
sleep is: 
 (1) effectively digested and absorbed, ↑ 
overnight plasma AA availability, 
(2) ↑ MPS leading to ↑ net balance 
 Minor et al. 
[ 117 ]  • Hypocaloric (−15 % kcal): 
 n  = 10 (2 M 8 F; 64 ± 2 y; 
23.3 ± 0.8 kg/m 2 ) 
 • Hypercaloric (+15 % kcal): 
 n  = 6 (2 M 4 F; 65 ± 2 y; 
24.6 ± 1.5 kg/m 2 )  Each participant 
completed 2 
consecutive, 3-day trials 
in a randomized 
crossover design  • 6 days total 
 • Each 3-day trial were 
reproduced and identical 
 • Immediately after 
exercise vs. earlier in day  Protein  • Anabolic effect of postexercise 
feeding was evident during positive 
energy balance but not negative 
energy balance 
 Jordan 
et al. [ 118 ]  • 9 healthy, sedentary adults 
 • 64.5 ± 2.0 y  Each participant 
completed 2 
consecutive, 3-day trials 
in a randomized 
crossover design  • 6 days total 
 • Each 3-day trial were 
reproduced and identical 
 • Immediately after 
exercise vs. earlier in day  Protein 
 (chocolate milk, 15.3 g 
protein)  • Older individuals were better able to 
maintain nitrogen balance by simply 
changing when a portion of an 
identical amount of daily protein was 
consumed 
 Galloway 
et al. [ 18 ]  • 17 male active team-sports 
players 
 • 23.6 ± 4.8 years  Randomized, double-
blind, crossover design  • 4 trials (cycling at 90 % 
of PPO) 
 • 7-d crossover 
 ingestion of a 6.4 % GES 
or PLA 30 or 120 min 
before exercise  • Glucose-electrolyte 
solution (6.4 % 
CHO)  • ↑ in HI ex capacity when 32 g of 
CHO taken 30 min before exercise 
(14–17 % increase) vs. 2 h 
preexercise 
 Greer et al. 
[ 119 ]  • 9 trained subjects (6 M, 
3 W) 
 • 21.4 ± 1.0 year  Randomized, blinded, 
crossover design  • CHO + PRO vs. PLA 
before and after downhill 
run 
 • 7d b/w trials 
 • ~ 3wks total  72 g carbohydrate 
 +18 g protein 
(Accelerade®”)     • ND in the 1.5-mile time trial or 
soreness between trials, regardless of 
timing 
 • No impact of CHO + PRO beverage 
on next day running performance or 
soreness vs. placebo 
(continued)13 Nutrient Timing

314Table 13.1  (continued)
 Reference  Subjects  Study design  Duration  Nutrient  Outcome/comments 
 Heesch 
et al.  120 ]  • 8 trained male cyclists 
 • 34.5 ± 8.3 years  Randomized, 
counterbalanced, 
crossover design  4 separate trials, each with 
2-h cycling at 60 % 
VO 2 max then 10-km TT: 
 • No CHO 
 • Early CHO (1st hour) 
 • Late CHO (2nd hour) 
 • CHO throughout 
 ≥3 day washout  • 250 mL of 6 % CHO 
(early and late 
conditions) 
 • 3 % CHO every 
15 min  • ND in O 2  uptake, HR, RPE, or 
substrate use between trials ( p  > 0.05) 
 • CHO ingestion throughout or late 
during a 2-h cycling bout can 
improve subsequent 10-km time trial 
performance 
 Trabelsi 
et al. [ 121 ]  16 male recreational 
bodybuilders (9 Ramadan 
fasters and 7 nonfasters)  • Anthropometric 
measurements 
 • Diet record 
 • Fasting blood and 
urine 
 • Samples taken 
before and after 
Ramadan  • 31days (29-d 
Ramadan + 2d) 
 • 4 d/wk RT; 4–6 exercises, 
w/ 4 sets at 10RM and 
2–3 min b/w sets 
 • Progress to 10RM loads  Mixed 
 ~15 h fasting  • Hypertrophic training through 
Ramadan had no effect on body mass 
and body composition of 
bodybuilders 
 • State of dehydration and reduced 
renal function were apparent 
  The interested reader is encouraged to download the Aragon et al. [ 64 ] and Schoenfeld et al. [ 65 ] articles for additional summary tables that highlight this information  C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

315
cycling exercise on calcium homeostasis follow ing 
two different timing strategies for calcium sup-
plementation [ 76 ]. Twenty trained male cyclists 
were asked to perform intense 35-km cycling 
time trials while consuming a fortiﬁ  ed beverage 
containing one total gram of calcium either 
20 min prior to exercise or in equal doses ingested 
at quarter-hour intervals during the 1-h cycling 
bout. For each trial, a placebo beverage was pro-
vided during the alternate consumption period, 
and the results were compared against a placebo-
only session. These trials were performed in a 
double-blind, crossover fashion, with at least 
48 h between bouts. The authors found that only 
calcium supplementation prior to exercise was 
able to signiﬁ  cantly diminish ( p  = 0.04) the 
expected increase in parathyroid hormone pro-
voked by exercise, though a similar trend 
( p  = 0.07) was seen for supplementation during 
exercise. Because parathyroid hormone increases 
in response to even minor decrements in serum 
calcium levels, the blunted increases reported by 
this project indicate an improved maintenance of 
serum calcium as a result of calcium supplemen-
tation, and this effect appears to be at least par-
tially moderated by the timing of supplement 
consumption [ 76 ]. 
 These results were bolstered by another recent 
project presented at the 2013 Endocrine Society 
annual meeting in San Francisco, CA, which also 
looked at the impact of calcium supplement timing 
on cycling exercise-induced disruptions in cal-
cium homeostasis [ 77 ]. This study worked with 52 
competitive male cyclists, who were randomly 
assigned to groups consuming supplements con-
taining 1 g calcium and 1,000 IU vitamin D either 
30 min before or 1 h after a strenuous 35-km 
cycling time trial. These researchers found that the 
observed decrease in serum ionized calcium 
postexercise was signiﬁ  cantly less for the group 
receiving supplements prior to exercise, and while 
parathyroid hormone increased after cycling for 
both groups, the increase was attenuated by preex-
ercise supplementation [ 77 ]. 
 In a similar study performed by Shea et al. 
(2014), researchers again compared the effects 
of disparate timing strategies for calcium sup-
plementation on the disruptions to calcium homeostasis caused by endurance exercise [ 78 ]. 
This project carried out two separate double-
blinded, crossover experiments using healthy, 
postmenopausal women aged 50–75 years per-
forming 60 min of treadmill walking at 75–80 % 
VO 2 peak. The ﬁ  rst experiment asked ten subjects 
to consume a calcium-fortiﬁ  ed beverage or pla-
cebo in equal quantities every 15 min, beginning 
1 h prior to exercise and continuing throughout 
the hour-long bout to deliver a total dose of 1 g 
of calcium. The second experiment asked a 
group of 23 subjects to consume an equivalent 
total measure of calcium or placebo, this time 
beginning just 15 min prior to exercise and once 
again continuing throughout the exercise session. 
This project found that the anticipated increase in 
parathyroid hormone following exercise was sig-
niﬁ cantly reduced for only those subjects begin-
ning calcium supplementation 60 min before 
activity. Additionally, all conditions saw a signiﬁ  -
cant decrease in serum ionized calcium except the 
group receiving supplementation for a full hour 
prior to exercise [ 78 ]. 
 Altogether, these projects provide ﬁ  rm support 
for a variable inﬂ  uence of calcium supplementa-
tion on exercise-induced disruptions to calcium 
homeostasis, which seems to be largely depen-
dent on the timing of intake relative to exercise. 
While there is currently a paucity of research 
examining the inﬂ  uence of micronutrient timing 
on their subsequent effects, especially in relation 
to exercise, this is largely because many vitamins 
and minerals are present in durable stores built up 
over time throughout the physiological system, so 
that daily timing of intake seems less pivotal to 
the overall impact of these nutrients. The results 
of these projects investigating calcium dynamics 
help indicate that more research is necessary to 
provide a solid empirical foundation for that 
assumption on a nutrient-by- nutrient basis, though 
not every nutrient is likely to demonstrate a 
timing-dependent effect. 
 In a recent animal study conducted by Fujii, 
Matsuo, and Okamura (2011), the research team 
used rats with induced iron deﬁ  ciency to examine 
the impact of resistance training and postexercise 
meal timing on iron status and heme synthesis 
[ 79 ]. In light of previous research demonstrating 13 Nutrient Timing

316
an increase in heme synthesis following resistance 
exercise in iron-deﬁ  cient rats [ 80 ], these research ers 
hypothesized that earlier postexercise feeding may 
potentiate this effect. Two groups of 4-week-old 
male rats were then given similar, iron-deﬁ  cient 
feed either immediately or 4 h after performing a 
climbing exercise three times per week over a 
3-week period. While plasma iron was signiﬁ  -
cantly elevated after climbing for only the group 
receiving immediate postexercise feeding, the 
hematocrit and hemoglobin levels were similar 
between groups pre- to postexercise [ 79 ]. As such, 
the researchers determined that postexercise meal 
timing had no effect on the hemoglobin concentra-
tion, and this project helps highlight that the 
complexity of intake timing, nutrient handling, 
and exercise interactions is such that repeated, 
comprehensive investigation may be required to 
tease out the underlying chain of effects.  13.4     Non-nutrient Timing 
 In addition to micronutrients, the timing compo-
nent of other dietary constituents or non-nutritive 
supplements, particularly those intended to pro-
vide an ergogenic beneﬁ  t, is rarely included in 
nutrient timing considerations. Nonetheless, tim-
ing is often a crucial and underexplored compo-
nent of many supplemental strategies for 
ergogenic aid. Table  13.2  outlines the study design 
of the small number of studies examining timing 
of non-nutrients.
   Caffeine is one of the most commonly con-
sumed psychoactive substances in the world and 
has been widely demonstrated to have ergogenic 
properties when applied to a variety of exercise 
modalities [ 81 ]. Unlike many other ergogenic 
supplements, the widespread social consumption 
of caffeine means that it is often both available 
   Table 13.2    Summary table of selected studies examining timing of non-nutrients   
 Reference  Subjects  Study design  Duration  Nutrient  Outcomes/comments 
 Ryan 
et al. 
 2013 [ 82 ]  • 8 college-aged 
(25 ± 5 years) 
male cyclists 
 • 50 ± 5 ml·kg −1 
·min −1 )  A within-subject, 
repeated measure, 
placebo-controlled 
design  • 4 sessions w/in 
1 month 
 • 3 sessions with 
caffeine given a 
different time 
point each 
 • 1 PLA trial  Caffeine  • Performance ↑ 
when gum was 
given 
immediately 
before 
 • ND when offered 
1 or 2 h before 
 Candow 
et al. [ 90 ]  • 22 adults 
 (9 M, 13 F) 
 • 50–64y 
 • No RT for 6 
months prior  Randomized, 
double-blind, 
repeated measure 
design  • RT 3 d/wk × 12 
wks 
 • CRE (0.1 g/kg) 
before PLA 
after 
 • PLA before 
CRE after  Creatine 
 (0.1 g/kg)  • Both groups ↑ 
strength and 
muscle mass 
 • ND between 
groups 
 Antonio 
et al. 
 2013 [ 89 ]  • 19 healthy 
males 
 • 23.1 ± 2.9 years 
 • 80.2 ± 10.4 kg  • Randomized trial 
 • Ingest 5 g before 
or after training  ~60-min RT 5 d/wk 
for 4 weeks  5-g/d 
creatine  • Postexercise 
group had 
signiﬁ  cantly 
greater increase 
in FFM and 
bench press 
strength 
 Siegler 
et al. [ 94 ]  • 8 active and 
healthy males 
 • 22 ± 2 years 
 • 76.2 ± 9.1 kg  • Randomized 
(counterbalanced)
• Repeated measure 
design 
 • Subjects ingested 
0.3 g·kg −1 NaHCO 3  
at 60, 120, or 
180 min before 
exercise  3 × 10s sprints 
separated by 50s of 
active recovery 
(1:5 work-to-rest) 
on a nonmotorized 
treadmill  NaHCO 3  
 (0.3 g·kg −1 )  • ND b/w groups in 
blood buffering 
or ergogenic 
potential of 
NaHCO 3  
 • 180-min group 
reported 
signiﬁ  cantly less 
GI upset C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

317
and acceptable for athletes to use during training 
and even competition. Despite this pervasive 
popularity and established ergogenic efﬁ  cacy, a 
recent project conducted by Ryan et al. (2013) 
was one of the ﬁ  rst to examine the differential 
impact on performance ensuing from a range of 
timing strategies for preexercise caffeine con-
sumption [ 82 ]. In a randomized, double-blinded, 
crossover fashion, these researchers provided eight 
male cyclists with 300 mg of caffeine in a chewing 
gum at 2 h, 1 h, or 5 min prior to a standardized 
warm-up and cycling time trial. This method of 
administration was chosen largely because it has 
been demonstrated to provide faster absorption 
than pill consumption, and a matched placebo 
was supplied at all other time points. The authors 
found that a signiﬁ  cant improvement in time trial 
performance was only observed when caffeine 
was dispensed to athletes immediately prior to 
exercise [ 82 ]. Overall, these results were the ﬁ  rst 
to illustrate the impact of timing of caffeine on 
cycling performance while also employing an 
administration method that may offer beneﬁ  ts over 
capsule or liquid delivery systems. 
 Outside of the recent work by Ryan, a number 
of studies using both endurance and resistance 
exercise have provided varying dosages of caf-
feine prior to beginning a workout or competition 
and have reported widespread improvements in 
performance. In endurance-style exercise, caf-
feine prior to exercise is known to favorably 
impact substrate utilization, reduce perceptions 
of fatigue, increase drive to exercise, and enhance 
overall performance [ 81 ,  83 ,  84 ]. Similarly, a 
number of studies published in the last 5 years 
have reported favorable outcomes for caffeine 
ingestion prior to resistance exercise, leading to 
improvements in maximal strength, maximal rep-
etitions completed, and drive to exercise, as well 
as reductions in soreness and muscle pain [ 85 –
 87 ]. Collectively, supplementation with caffeine 
leads to signiﬁ  cant reductions in muscle pain, 
improvements in mood, improvements in maxi-
mal strength, and improvements in the maximal 
number of repetitions performed. Outside of the 
Ryan study, a key discussion point for all research 
highlighted involving caffeine is that none of the 
studies were developed to examine a question of timing. These studies are included because the 
nature in which caffeine operates results in a situ-
ation where preexercise administration is needed 
to fully take advantage of its stimulatory effects, 
particularly as they would work toward enhanc-
ing performance. In this respect, providing caf-
feine after a bout of resistance exercise would not 
make any pharmacological, physiological, or 
theoretical sense. For these reasons, caffeine use 
prior to both endurance and resistance exercise 
has a strong potential to exert favorable perfor-
mance and metabolic outcomes. One ﬁ  nal 
thought on caffeine and timing relates to the work 
of Pedersen et al., whereby the authors reported 
that postexercise ingestion of caffeine at a dose of 
8 mg per kilogram of body mass, when combined 
with carbohydrate feedings, resulted in the fastest 
published rates of glycogen resynthesis that have 
ever been reported [ 88 ]. Again, this study did not 
examine caffeine timing per se, but demonstrated 
that providing it in a postexercise window with 
carbohydrate feedings can result in enhanced 
rates of muscle glycogen resynthesis. The efﬁ  -
cacy of doing so prior to exercise and its impact 
on performance, glycogen storage, or utilization 
remains to be seen. 
 Another popular non-nutritive dietary supple-
ment with demonstrated ergogenic beneﬁ  t, cre-
atine monohydrate, has also been shown through 
several research projects to merit involvement in 
the nutrient timing discussion. In one of the semi-
nal studies on supplement timing and perfor-
mance, Cribb and Hayes (2006) provided 
matched groups of resistance-trained males with 
a supplement containing protein, carbohydrate, 
and creatine monohydrate throughout a struc-
tured 10-week training period [ 61 ]. Subjects 
consumed the supplement either immediately 
before and after four weekly resistance training 
workouts or in the early morning and late evening 
of training days in a randomized, single-blind 
fashion. A number of timing-speciﬁ  c effects were 
observed by the researchers, including signiﬁ  -
cantly greater improvements in lean body mass 
and muscular strength for the group receiving 
supplementation immediately before and after 
training. Most importantly for creatine users, after 
the training period, researchers found signiﬁ  cantly 13 Nutrient Timing

318
greater phosphocreatine and creatine concentra-
tions in muscle biopsies from the group supple-
menting before and after exercise, indicating an 
enhanced effect of creatine use dependent on 
intake timing. 
 This conclusion was reﬁ  ned in a subsequent 
project performed by Antonio and Ciccone 
(2013). These researchers randomly assigned a 
group of 19 recreational male bodybuilders to 
receive 5 g of creatine monohydrate either imme-
diately before or after a structured, 4-week resis-
tance training regimen [ 89 ]. Though trends in the 
resulting data failed to reach signiﬁ  cance, per-
haps due to the small sample size utilized and the 
relatively short duration of the resistance training 
program, the authors used a magnitude-based 
inference analysis approach to conclude that 
postexercise supplementation was potentially 
superior in producing beneﬁ  cial changes to fat- 
free mass, fat mass, and 1-RM bench press. 
 These somewhat tenuous results were then con-
founded by another recent study conducted by 
Candow et al. (2014). This project also compared 
pre- versus postexercise creatine supplementation, 
this time in a group of 22 untrained older adults of 
mixed gender. In a double-blind design, these 
subjects were randomized into groups receiving 
0.1 g of creatine per kilogram body weight, sup-
plied either immediately before or after struc-
tured resistance training sessions performed three 
times per week over 12 weeks. The authors found 
no signiﬁ  cant difference between groups in the 
ensuing adaptations to resistance training, with 
both groups experiencing similar signiﬁ  cant 
increases in lean tissue mass, muscle thickness, 
and muscle strength [ 90 ]. 
 While the authors of these two projects 
reached disparate conclusions, there are a variety 
of important physiological considerations 
impacting these studies that can help highlight 
the level of nuance able to effect research of this 
nature. First and foremost, earlier work on cre-
atine estimates that approximately 20–30 % of 
individuals fail to respond to creatine supplemen-
tation [ 91 ]. In light of the relatively small subject 
samples employed by both of these projects, any 
imbalance in the grouping of nonresponders 
 during randomization could have signiﬁ  cantly affected the subsequent results. Moreover, previ ous 
studies have reported male subjects as respond-
ing more favorably to creatine supplementation 
than females [ 92 ], so that the use of a mixed-sex 
sample by Candow et al. (2014) may have been 
nontrivial. Other inherent differences between 
these two projects, including absolute versus rel-
ative creatine dosage strategies, as well as subject 
age, training status, and the duration of the train-
ing program, could each have plausibly differen-
tiated the eventual results. Altogether, the 
potential impact of these minor disparities points 
to the need for carefully conducted future 
research in order to distinguish any potential tim-
ing effect for creatine and other dietary supple-
ments hitherto unconsidered. 
 Indeed, beyond augmenting the ergogenic 
beneﬁ  t of these compounds, intake timing may 
also play a role in moderating any negative side 
effects accompanying these products. A straight-
forward and effective timing strategy is often 
used to mitigate the paresthesia associated with 
effective doses of beta-alanine, in simply break-
ing the dosage into smaller quantities consumed 
throughout the day [ 93 ]. Similarly, a recent proj-
ect conducted by Siegler, Marshall, Bray, and 
Towlson (2012) exploring timing strategies for 
sodium bicarbonate supplementation found that 
intake timing impacted subsequent reports of 
gastrointestinal upset. Using a randomized, coun-
terbalanced design, these researchers provided a 
group of eight male sprinters with 0.3 g of sodium 
bicarbonate per kilogram body weight at 60, 120, 
or 180 min prior to repeated bouts of sprinting. 
The authors found that the subjects performed 
similarly under all supplemental conditions, 
yet reports of gastrointestinal discomfort were 
signiﬁ  cantly elevated for only those subjects 
receiving sodium bicarbonate at 60 and 120 min 
prior to exercise [ 94 ].  
13.5     Meal Patterns and Time-
of- Day Considerations 
 While it is true that the entire concept of nutrient 
timing, particularly as it relates to sports and 
exercise, has overwhelmingly involved timing C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

319
considerations closely surrounding some form of 
workout or competition, the strategy itself and 
the potential advantages it may offer can also 
apply to timing strategies for other scenarios such 
as health and weight loss. An early study pub-
lished in 1997 by Keim and investigators required 
study participants to complete two 6-week diet 
periods. Similar diet compositions and caloric 
contents (~1,950 kcals) were consumed, but in one 
pattern, approximately 70 % of the prescribed 
kcals were consumed during the morning, while 
in the other group 70 % of the prescribed kcals 
were consumed with evening meals. Changes in 
weight loss and body composition were com-
pared, and slightly greater weight loss occurred 
when the majority of kcals were consumed in the 
morning. While this is a seemingly positive out-
come for consuming more kcals in the morning, 
greater amounts of fat-free mass were lost as 
well, leading to questions surrounding the long-
term efﬁ  cacy of this strategy regarding weight 
management and metabolic activity [ 95 ]. 
Observational research by investigators at the 
University of Texas-El Paso examined the food 
intake of 867 free-living individuals (375 males 
and 492 females) and reported that the timing of 
food consumption is correlated to the  overall 
amount of kcals consumed each day, with con-
sumption early in the day being negatively cor-
related with total food intake ( r  = −0.13,  p  < 0.01), 
while late in the day consumption was positively 
correlated ( r  = 0.14,  p  < 0.01) [ 96 ]. A more 
detailed, follow-up analysis from the same study 
revealed that when carbohydrates, fats, and pro-
teins were consumed in greater amounts earlier 
in the day, then reduced amounts were consumed 
later in the day. Conversely, when proportionally 
greater amounts were consumed later in the day, 
overall energy intakes tended to be higher [ 68 ]. 
 In addition to changes in food intake, research 
in both animals and humans shows that the tim-
ing of food consumption may impact changes in 
body fat accumulation and production. Wu and 
investigators reported in laboratory animals that 
the ﬁ rst daily meal helps to program the circadian 
phase of peripheral clocks, while the last meal 
leads to increased rates of lipogenesis and adi-
pose tissue accumulation [ 97 ]. Human research supports these ﬁ  ndings, in that people who skip 
breakfast have been shown to display a delayed 
activation of lipolysis along with an increase in 
the production of adipose tissue [ 98 ,  99 ]. 
 A more recent study conducted by Jakubowicz 
et al. in 2013 required overweight and obese 
women to consume a weight loss diet that pro-
vided approximately 1,400 kcals each day for a 
12-week period. In this study, a portion of the 
study participants consumed 700 kcals during 
breakfast, 500 kcals during lunch, and 200 kcals 
during dinner, while the other portion of study 
participants consumed the exact opposite distri-
bution (200 kcals for breakfast, 500 kcals for 
lunch, and 700 kcals for dinner) [ 100 ]. 
Approximately 2.5 times more weight was lost 
when the majority of kcals were consumed at 
breakfast, as compared to the opposing feeding 
pattern. In addition, signiﬁ  cantly greater changes 
in waist circumference and overall body mass 
index were observed when the majority of kcals 
were consumed at the breakfast meal. Equally 
impressive ﬁ  ndings from this study were that 
average triglyceride levels decreased by 34 % in 
the breakfast consumption group, as compared to 
a 15 % change in the dinner group, while greater 
improvements in serum glucose and insulin 
dynamics as well as improved feelings of satiety 
were also found in the group that consumed the 
majority of their kcals at breakfast [ 100 ]. 
 Overall, the results of the Jakubowicz study 
provide additional empirical support for a number 
of other previously published reports. In both 
human and animal research, the practice of skip-
ping breakfast and altering the macronutrient con-
tent of certain meals has been repeatedly shown to 
impact appetite, feelings of fullness, and overall 
food intake. For example, Leidy and colleagues in 
two separate published studies concluded that 
increasing the protein content of the breakfast 
meal can improve appetite control, food intake, 
and feelings of fullness [ 101 ,  102 ]. In closing, the 
Jakubowicz study offers an excellent extension of 
these ﬁ  ndings and helps to illustrate that meal 
timing and the temporal distribution of kcal con-
sumption may indeed impact weight loss, body 
composition, and various parameters of metabolic 
and cardiovascular health [ 100 ].  13 Nutrient Timing

320
13.6     Meal Frequency 
 Meal frequency, or the number of occasions 
throughout the day in which a feeding episode 
takes place, is a function of meal patterns. For 
years, the impact of meal frequency on health 
and weight loss was widely thought to favorably 
impact changes in weight loss, weight mainte-
nance, and body composition. The initial 
research supporting this strategy was reported 
by Fabry and coworkers. Using an epidemio-
logical, cross- sectional study approach, they 
reported that in a population of 379 overweight 
individuals aged 60–64 years, the mean skinfold 
thickness was inversely related to the frequency 
of meals [ 103 ]. Follow-up investigations by this 
research group reported similar outcomes in a 
sample of 80 subjects aged 30–50 years of age 
[ 104 ]. Finally, Metzner and colleagues reported 
that in a very large sample of 2,000 men and 
women aged 35–60 years of age, meal frequency 
and adiposity were inversely related [ 105 ]. 
While consistent ﬁ  ndings of this kind are 
encouraging, the  observational nature of the 
underlying studies, and the reliance upon food 
records in determining how many kcals were 
consumed, creates an unsatisfactory combina-
tion of bias and error inextricable from the 
reported outcomes. Using a well- controlled, 
experimental approach, Cameron and col-
leagues had 16 obese men and women reduce 
their energy intake by 700 kcals per day and fol-
low one of two different meal patterns. In an 
isocaloric fashion, one group was instructed to 
consume six meals per day (three traditional 
meals and three snacks), while the other group 
was instructed to consume three meals per day 
for an 8-week period. Changes in body mass, 
obesity indices, appetite, and ghrelin were mea-
sured at the end of the 8-week study, and no sig-
niﬁ cant differences in any of the measured 
endpoints were found [ 106 ]. 
 Kulovitz-Alencar and investigators at the 
University of New Mexico have recently pre-
sented research to further examine, in a controlled 
fashion, the impact of meal frequency on changes 
in body mass, body composition, and ghrelin, as well as glucose and insulin. This yet- to- be-
published research was the ﬁ  rst to use commer-
cially available food products (i.e., Nutrisystem) 
as part of a greater regimen to examine the impact 
of meal frequency. In this study, a crossover 
approach was used whereby each group con-
sumed either two meals per day or six meals per 
day for a 2-week period. No signiﬁ  cant changes in 
body mass or body composition were observed, in 
addition to no change being found in glucose, 
insulin, and ghrelin changes [ 107 ]. Interestingly, a 
2005 study by Farshchi required individuals to 
either consume a regular, consistent pattern of six 
daily meals over a 14-day period or eat anywhere 
from three to nine meals per day [ 108 ]. Regular 
meal patterns resulted in lower energy intake 
while also supporting greater levels of thermo-
genesis and improvements in a number of health 
markers found in the blood. Although both of 
these studies were identical in duration, the num-
ber of feeding episodes was different, and the 
combined results seem to indicate that a chaotic 
meal pattern may challenge the ability of the body 
to regulate the levels of various markers of health 
and appetite when compared to a regular meal 
pattern, irrespective of the total number of meals 
consumed per day. The Farshchi ﬁ  ndings sup-
ported a previous 1997 review article by Bellisle 
[ 109 ], as well as a more recent review article by 
Kulovitz [ 110 ], indicating that when total energy 
intake is controlled, and when caloric restriction 
is employed, the impact of meal frequency takes 
a backseat to total daily caloric intake. Overall, 
the ﬁ ndings from these authors also support the 
conclusion of the International Society of Sports 
Nutrition in their position stand on meal fre-
quency that [ 111 ]:
•    Increasing meal frequency does not appear to 
favorably change body composition in seden-
tary populations.  
•   Altering meal frequency may positively 
impact various blood markers of health, par-
ticularly LDL and total cholesterol, as well as 
insulin.  
•   Increasing meal frequency appears to decrease 
hunger and improve appetite control.     C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

321
13.7     Protein Patterns 
 In addition to the pattern and/or frequency in 
which meals are consumed, the pattern of protein 
feedings has also been explored in some prelimi-
nary research. In 2012, Moore and colleagues 
had eight participants complete three experimen-
tal trials which compared the impact of consum-
ing the same total dose of protein (80 g) with 
three distinct feeding patterns over the same 12-h 
measurement window after an identical bout of 
lower body resistance exercise [ 112 ]. For exam-
ple, one condition had participants consume two 
40-g doses of whey protein isolate approximately 
6 h apart. The next condition required the partici-
pants to consume four 20-g doses of whey pro-
tein isolate every 3 h. The ﬁ  nal condition required 
the participants to consume eight 10-g doses of 
whey protein isolate every 90 min. Using stable 
isotope tracer technology, rates of muscle protein 
turnover, synthesis, and breakdown were com-
pared between all three feeding patterns, and the 
authors concluded that protein turnover and 
 synthesis rates were greatest when more frequent 
ingestion of smaller doses of whey protein isolate 
was consumed. From this study, the authors con-
cluded that the pattern of ingested protein, and 
not only the total daily amount of protein, can 
impact whole-body protein metabolism. 
 Additional analysis from the same research 
study examined the changes in myoﬁ  brillar pro-
tein synthesis, a more speciﬁ  c measurement that 
reﬂ ects muscle protein as opposed to whole-body 
rates of protein metabolism [ 113 ]. Reports from 
this publication ﬁ  rst indicated that myoﬁ  brillar 
protein synthesis rates increased in all three 
groups, irrespective of how the total protein dose 
was consumed. Second, the authors found that 
when four 20-g doses of whey protein isolate 
were consumed every 3 h over a 12-h postexer-
cise period, signiﬁ  cantly greater rates of myoﬁ  -
brillar protein synthesis occurred as compared with 
the other two ingestion patterns. In conclusion, 
the results from this study provide important 
information, namely, that intermediate protein 
doses (20 g vs. 40 g or 10 g) consumed every 3 h 
create more favorable changes in both whole- body as well as myoﬁ  brillar protein synthesis. While 
this study did not incorporate more than one 
exercise bout or one feeding period, the results 
do indicate that the timing or pattern in which 
high-quality protein is ingested may favorably 
impact net protein balance and in turn could go 
on to more favorably impact changes in strength 
and fat-free mass.  
13.8     Conclusions and Perspective 
 As outlined throughout the chapter, nutrient tim ing 
is an exciting area of research that continues to 
gather interest from both researchers and con-
sumers. Probably two of the most important 
things for readers to realize are that all nutrient 
timing information must be considered in the 
correct context and that many areas of research in 
this area are still underexplored. For example, it 
is clear that increasing carbohydrate intake to 
very high daily intake levels (7–10 g/kg/day) 
facilitates optimal restoration of muscle glyco-
gen, yet unless the need is present for immediate 
or rapid restoration of these energy stores, “load-
ing” regimens may not be necessary (though 
they should not be considered to be harmful or 
useless). However, this says nothing deﬁ  nitive 
about the importance of “carbohydrate loading” 
prior to a prolonged exercise bout, the impact this 
strategy can have on substrate utilization, percep-
tions of effort and fatigue, or frankly its inﬂ  uence 
on performance. 
 In a similar light, recent well-conducted 
reviews and systematic analyses have indicated 
that increased protein intake is important for pro-
motion of favorable training adaptations [ 5 ], but 
that speciﬁ  c timing strategies may not be needed 
as long as protein intake reaches adequate levels 
[ 64 ,  65 ]. Finally, recent exciting work with vari-
ous non-nutrients (e.g., caffeine and creatine) 
provides data to indicate that timed availability 
may impart favorable responses to acute exercise 
or prolonged training [ 82 ,  89 ]. As stated previ-
ously, limited studies are currently available that 
have examined over the course of several weeks 
of training equal doses of protein ingestion before 13 Nutrient Timing

322
a workout in comparison to identical protein 
ingestion after a workout. This is somewhat sur-
prising, but it underlines the point that much 
more research needs to be conducted. 
 Another consideration worth mentioning, 
which also highlights the lack of consistent 
reports, goes back to various aspects related to 
research design and statistical analysis. Put sim-
ply, many studies, by virtue of their complexity 
and invasiveness, ﬁ  nd it necessary to employ 
small numbers of research participants. In addi-
tion, in many situations, the sizes of potential 
effects are quite small: fractions of a fraction. Put 
simply, a resistance training program is respon-
sible for a great deal of the change in muscle 
mass that would typically occur after several 
weeks of following a well-developed resistance 
training program. The potential to invoke further 
change in these variables when comparing a car-
bohydrate or a protein-laden diet is much 
smaller than the potential impact of exercise 
itself. As such, one must consider that a timing-
speciﬁ  c question is then seeking to determine 
whether changing “when” something is con-
sumed makes an impact on the already compar-
atively  diminutive effect of the nutrient itself. As 
a result, potential effects are quite small, and 
when combined with study designs that necessi-
tate small numbers of study participants, the 
potential for statistical signiﬁ  cance remains low. 
Nonetheless, this consideration remains impor-
tant because it underscores the need for more 
research and continued investigation into under-
standing both the group and individual changes 
that can be expected from various strategies 
manipulating timing of intake.  
13.9     Practical Applications 
•     The importance of adequate intake of energy, 
carbohydrate, and protein cannot be under-
stated to help fuel athletes for optimal perfor-
mance and adaptations to intense, high 
volumes of exercise training and recovery. 
Athletes and coaches must make sure these 
needs are being met.  
•   Prolonged exercise (>60–90 min) of moderate-
to- high-intensity exercise relies heavily upon internal stores of energy, and timing strategies 
are one approach to facilitate recovery and 
offset these changes.  
•   High-intensity exercise requires energy and 
leads to ﬂ  uid loss. Developing a following 
hydration strategy (1.5–2 cups of 6–8 % CHO 
solution [6–8 g CHO/100 mL ﬂ  uid]) that 
involves regular and ongoing consumption of 
a carbohydrate-electrolyte solution can help to 
replace ﬂ  uid, sustain blood glucose levels, and 
promote performance.  
•   Ingestion of a minimum of 6 g of the essential 
amino acid, leucine (approximately 20–25 
groups of isolated versions of intact protein), 
appears to be a critical threshold to activate 
mechanisms of protein synthesis.  
•   Rapid ingestion of high amounts of carbohy-
drates (1.2 g of CHO per kilogram of body 
mass per hour) for 4–6 h starting soon after 
exhausting exercise is needed to rapidly stim-
ulate replenishment of lost muscle glycogen.  
•   The addition of protein (0.2–0.5 g of protein 
per kilogram of body mass per day) to carbo-
hydrate at a ratio of 3:1 (CHO   : PRO) can fur-
ther stimulate glycogen resynthesis when 
adequate carbohydrate cannot be delivered. 
Further, adding protein may help to attenuate 
muscle and accelerate recovery from intense 
exercise.  
•   In the absence of timing strategies, daily con-
sumption of high amounts of dietary carbohy-
drate (>8 g of CHO per kilogram body mass 
per day) can encourage maintenance of high 
levels of muscle and liver glycogen.  
•   Timing of protein or appropriate amounts of 
the essential amino acids remains as a strategy 
that can potentially impact how an athlete 
responds and adapt to their training, in cases 
where adequate protein intake is provided 
across the day (1.2–1.8 g of protein per kilo-
gram of body mass per day).  
•   Research examining the timing of certain non- 
nutrients has begun, and preliminary research 
indicates the timing of caffeine may impact 
endurance performance and timing of creatine 
may favorably impact resistance training 
adaptations in young people.  
•   In the face of restricting caloric intake for 
weight loss, altering meal frequency does not C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

323
appear to invoke any favorable inﬂ  uence, but 
may help with controlling hunger, appetite, and 
satiety, particularly if higher doses of protein 
are delivered within each feeding episode.  
•   Nutrient timing strategies that involve altering 
meal patterns and distribution of pattern indi-
cate that intermediate-sized protein doses 
(20–30 g) every 3–4 h best support increased 
rates of muscle protein synthesis across the day.  
•   Nutrient timing strategies that involve altering 
when proportions of total caloric intake are 
consumed indicate improved weight loss, body 
composition, and health-related markers in the 
blood for people who consumed a greater pro-
portion of their calories during the breakfast 
meal and when this meal provides higher 
amounts of dietary protein.        
      References 
     1.    Sherman WM, Costill DL, Fink WJ, Miller 
JM. Effect of exercise-diet manipulation on muscle 
glycogen and its subsequent utilization during per-
formance. Int J Sports Med. 1981;2(2):114–8.  
     2.    Karlsson J, Saltin B. Diet, muscle glycogen, and 
endurance performance. J Appl Physiol. 1971;31(2):
203–6.  
     3.    Ivy JL, Katz AL, Cutler CL, Sherman WM, Coyle 
EF. Muscle glycogen synthesis after exercise: effect 
of time of carbohydrate ingestion. J Appl Physiol. 
1988;64(4):1480–5.  
     4.    Kerksick C, Stout J, Campbell B, Wilborn C, Kreider 
R, Kalman D, et al. International Society of Sports 
Nutrition position stand: nutrient timing. J Int Soc 
Sports Nutr. 2008;5(1):17.  
       5.    Cermak NM, Res PT, de Groot LC, Saris WH, van 
Loon LJ. Protein supplementation augments the 
adaptive response of skeletal muscle to resistance- 
type exercise training: a meta-analysis. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2012;96(6):1454–64.  
    6.    Dennis SC, Noakes TD, Hawley JA. Nutritional 
strategies to minimize fatigue during prolonged 
exercise: ﬂ  uid, electrolyte and energy replacement. 
J Sports Sci. 1997;15(3):305–13.  
       7.    Rodriguez NR, Di Marco NM, Langley S. American 
College of Sports Medicine position stand. Nutrition 
and athletic performance. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
2009;41(3):709–31.  
    8.    Burke LM, Cox GR, Culmmings NK, Desbrow B. 
Guidelines for daily carbohydrate intake: do ath-
letes achieve them? Sports Med. 2001;31(4):
267–99.  
    9.    Sherman WM, Costill DL, Fink WJ, Hagerman FC, 
Armstrong LE, Murray TF. Effect of a 42.2-km 
footrace and subsequent rest or exercise on muscle glycogen and enzymes. J Appl Physiol. 1983;
55:1219–24.  
    10.    Bussau V A, Fairchild TJ, Rao A, Steele P, Fournier 
PA. Carbohydrate loading in human muscle: an 
improved 1 day protocol. Eur J Appl Physiol. 
2002;87(3):290–5.  
    11.    Coyle EF, Coggan AR, Hemmert MK, Lowe RC, 
Walters TJ. Substrate usage during prolonged exer-
cise following a preexercise meal. J Appl Physiol. 
1985;59(2):429–33.  
    12.    Wright DA, Sherman WM, Dernbach AR. 
Carbohydrate feedings before, during, or in combi-
nation improve cycling endurance performance. J Appl 
Physiol. 1991;71(3):1082–8.  
   13.    Neufer PD, Costill DL, Flynn MG, Kirwan JP, 
Mitchell JB, Houmard J. Improvements in exercise 
performance: effects of carbohydrate feedings and 
diet. J Appl Physiol. 1987;62(3):983–8.  
    14.    Sherman WM, Brodowicz G, Wright DA, Allen WK, 
Simonsen J, Dernbach A. Effects of 4 h preexercise 
carbohydrate feedings on cycling performance. Med 
Sci Sports Exerc. 1989;21(5):598–604.  
    15.    Tarnopolsky MA, Gibala M, Jeukendrup AE, 
Phillips SM. Nutritional needs of elite endurance 
athletes. Part I: carbohydrate and ﬂ  uid requirements. 
Eur J Sport Sci. 2005;5(1):3–14.  
    16.    Foster C, Costill DL, Fink WJ. Effects of preexercise 
feedings on endurance performance. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 1979;11:1–5.  
    17.    Hawley JA, Burke LM. Effect of meal frequency 
and timing on physical performance. Br J Nutr. 
1997;77 Suppl 1:S91–103.  
     18.    Galloway SD, Lott MJ, Toulouse LC. Pre-exercise 
carbohydrate feeding and high-intensity exercise 
capacity: effects of timing of intake and carbohy-
drate concentration. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2014;24(3):258–66.  
    19.    Fielding RA, Costill DL, Fink WJ, King DS, 
Hargreaves M, Kovaleski JE. Effect of carbohydrate 
feeding frequencies and dosage on muscle glycogen 
use during exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1985;
17(4):472–6.  
    20.    Febbraio MA, Chiu A, Angus DJ, Arkinstall MJ, 
Hawley JA. Effects of carbohydrate ingestion 
before and during exercise on glucose kinetics 
and performance. J Appl Physiol. 2000;89(6):
2220–6.  
    21.    Widrick JJ, Costill DL, Fink WJ, Hickey MS, 
McConell GK, Tanaka H. Carbohydrate feedings 
and exercise performance: effect of initial muscle 
glycogen concentration. J Appl Physiol. 1993;74(6):
2998–3005.  
    22.    Ivy JL. Glycogen resynthesis after exercise: effect of 
carbohydrate intake. Int J Sports Med. 1998;19 
Suppl 2:S142–5.  
     23.    Jentjens R, Jeukendrup AE. Determinants of post- 
exercise glycogen synthesis during short-term recovery. 
Sports Med. 2003;33:117–44.  
      24.    Jentjens R, van Loon L, Mann CH, Wagenmakers 
AJM, Jeukendrup AE. Addition of protein and 
amino acids to carbohydrates does not enhance 13 Nutrient Timing

324
postexercise muscle glycogen synthesis. J Appl 
Physiol. 2001;91:839–46.  
    25.    van Loon L, Saris WH, Kruijshoop M. Maximizing 
postexercise muscle glycogen synthesis: carbohy-
drate supplementation and the application of amino 
acid or protein hydrolysate mixtures. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2000;72:106–11.  
    26.    Keizer H, Kuipers H, van Kranenburg G. Inﬂ  uence 
of liquid and solid meals on muscle glycogen resyn-
thesis, plasma fuel hormone response, and maximal 
physical working capacity. Int J Sports Med. 1987;
8:99–104.  
    27.    Nicholas CW, Green PA, Hawkins RD. Carbohydrate 
intake and recovery of intermittent running capacity. 
Int J Sport Nutr. 1997;7:251–60.  
    28.    Ivy JL, Res PT, Sprague RC, Widzer MO. Effect of a 
carbohydrate-protein supplement on endurance per-
formance during exercise of varying intensity. Int J 
Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2003;13(3):382–95.  
     29.    Saunders MJ, Kane MD, Todd MK. Effects of a 
carbohydrate-protein beverage on cycling endurance 
and muscle damage. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2004;
36(7):1233–8.  
    30.    Koopman R, Pannemans DL, Jeukendrup AE, 
Gijsen AP, Senden JM, Halliday D, et al. Combined 
ingestion of protein and carbohydrate improves pro-
tein balance during ultra-endurance exercise. Am J 
Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2004;287(4):E712–20.  
     31.   Ivy JL, Goforth HW, Jr., Damon BM, McCauley TR, 
Parsons EC, Price TB. Early postexercise muscle 
glycogen recovery is enhanced with a carbohydrate- 
protein supplement. Journal of applied physiology 
(Bethesda, MD : 1985). 2002;93(4):1337–44.  
    32.    Zawadzki KM, Yaspelkis 3rd BB, Ivy JL. 
Carbohydrate-protein complex increases the rate of 
muscle glycogen storage after exercise. J Appl 
Physiol. 1992;72(5):1854–9.  
    33.    Berardi JM, Noreen EE, Lemon PW. Recovery from 
a cycling time trial is enhanced with carbohydrate- 
protein supplementation vs. isoenergetic carbohy-
drate supplementation. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2008;5:24.  
    34.    Berardi JM, Price TB, Noreen EE, Lemon PW. 
Postexercise muscle glycogen recovery enhanced 
with a carbohydrate-protein supplement. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2006;38(6):1106–13.  
    35.    Howarth KR, Moreau NA, Phillips SM, Gibala 
MJ. Co-ingestion of protein with carbohydrate dur-
ing recovery from endurance exercise stimulates 
skeletal muscle protein synthesis in humans. J Appl 
Physiol. 2009;106:1394–402.  
    36.   Hawley JA, Burke LM, Phillips SM, Spriet 
LL. Nutritional modulation of training-induced skel-
etal muscle adaptations. J Appl Physiol (Bethesda, 
MD: 1985). 2011;110(3):834–45.  
    37.    Margolis LM, Pasiakos SM. Optimizing intramuscu-
lar adaptations to aerobic exercise: effects of carbo-
hydrate restriction and protein supplementation on 
mitochondrial biogenesis. Adv Nutr. 2013;4(6):
657–64.       38.    Tipton KD, Rasmussen BB, Miller SL, Wolf SE, 
Owens-Stovall SK, Petrini BE, et al. Timing of 
amino acid-carbohydrate ingestion alters anabolic 
response of muscle to resistance exercise. Am J 
Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2001;281(2):E197–206.  
    39.   Fujita S, Dreyer HC, Drummond MJ, Glynn EL, 
V olpi E, Rasmussen BB. Essential amino acid and 
carbohydrate ingestion before resistance exercise 
does not enhance postexercise muscle protein syn-
thesis. J Appl Physiol (Bethesda, MD: 1985). 
2009;106(5):1730–9.  
    40.    Gonzalez AM, Walsh AL, Ratamess NA, Kang J, 
Hoffman JR. Effect of a pre-workout energy supple-
ment on acute multi-joint resistance exercise. 
J Sports Sci Med. 2011;10(2):261–6.  
    41.    Ormsbee MJ, Mandler WK, Thomas DD, Ward EG, 
Kinsey AW, Simonavice E, et al. The effects of six 
weeks of supplementation with multi-ingredient per-
formance supplements and resistance training on 
anabolic hormones, body composition, strength, and 
power in resistance-trained men. J Int Soc Sports 
Nutr. 2012;9(1):49.  
    42.    Ormsbee MJ, Thomas DD, Mandler WK, Ward EG, 
Kinsey AW, Panton LB, et al. The effects of pre- and 
post-exercise consumption of multi-ingredient per-
formance supplements on cardiovascular health and 
body fat in trained men after six weeks of resistance 
training: a stratiﬁ  ed, randomized, double-blind 
study. Nutr Metab (Lond). 2013;10(1):39.  
    43.    Lowery RP, Joy JM, Dudeck JE, Oliveira de Souza 
E, McCleary SA, Wells S, et al. Effects of 8 weeks of 
Xpand(R) 2X pre workout supplementation on skel-
etal muscle hypertrophy, lean body mass, and 
strength in resistance trained males. J Int Soc Sports 
Nutr. 2013;10(1):44.  
    44.    Spradley BD, Crowley KR, Tai CY , Kendall KL, 
Fukuda DH, Esposito EN, et al. Ingesting a pre- 
workout supplement containing caffeine, B-vitamins, 
amino acids, creatine, and beta-alanine before exercise 
delays fatigue while improving reaction time and mus-
cular endurance. Nutr Metab (Lond). 2012;9:28.  
    45.    Hackney KJ, Bruenger AJ, Lemmer JT. Timing pro-
tein intake increases energy expenditure 24 h after 
resistance training. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2010;
42(5):998–1003.  
    46.    Haff GG, Koch AJ, Potteiger JA, Kuphal KE, Magee 
LM, Green SB, et al. Carbohydrate supplementation 
attenuates muscle glycogen loss during acute bouts 
of resistance exercise. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2000;10(3):326–39.  
    47.    Bird SP, Tarpenning KM, Marino FE. Effects of 
liquid carbohydrate/essential amino acid ingestion 
on acute hormonal response during a single bout of 
resistance exercise in untrained men. Nutrition. 
2006;22(4):367–75.  
    48.    Bird SP, Tarpenning KM, Marino FE. Liquid carbo-
hydrate/essential amino acid ingestion during a 
short-term bout of resistance exercise suppresses 
myoﬁ  brillar protein degradation. Metabolism. 2006;
55(5):570–7.  C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

325
    49.    Beelen M, Koopman R, Gijsen AP, Vandereyt H, 
Kies AK, Kuipers H, et al. Protein coingestion stim-
ulates muscle protein synthesis during resistance- 
type exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 
2008;295(1):E70–7.  
    50.    Esmarck B, Anderson JL, Olsen S, Richter EA, 
Mizuno M, Kjaer M. Timing postexercise protein 
intake is important for muscle hypertrophy with 
resistance training in elderly humans. J Physiol. 
2001;535:301–11.  
    51.    Cribb PJ, Williams AD, Carey MF, Hayes A. The 
effect of whey isolate and resistance training on 
strength, body composition, and plasma glutamine. 
Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2006;16(5):494–509.  
   52.    Hartman JW, Tang JE, Wilkinson SB, Tarnopolsky 
MA, Lawrence RL, Fullerton A V , et al. 
Consumption of fat-free ﬂ  uid milk after resistance 
exercise promotes greater lean mass accretion than 
does consumption of soy or carbohydrate in young, 
novice, male weightlifters. Am J Clin Nutr. 
2007;86(2):373–81.  
   53.    Phillips SM, Tang JE, Moore DR. The role of milk- 
and soy-based protein in support of muscle protein 
synthesis and muscle protein accretion in young and 
elderly persons. J Am Coll Nutr. 2009;28(4):343–54.  
   54.    Kerksick CM, Rasmussen CJ, Lancaster SL, Magu 
B, Smith P, Melton C, et al. The effects of protein 
and amino acid supplementation on performance 
and training adaptations during ten weeks of resis-
tance training. J Strength Cond Res. 2006;20(3):
643–53.  
    55.    Willoughby DS, Stout JR, Wilborn CD. Effects of 
resistance training and protein plus amino acid sup-
plementation on muscle anabolism, mass, and 
strength. Amino Acids. 2007;32(4):467–77.  
     56.    Borsheim E, Tipton KD, Wolf SE, Wolfe 
RR. Essential amino acids and muscle protein recov-
ery from resistance exercise. Am J Physiol 
Endocrinol Metab. 2002;283(4):E648–57.  
   57.    Miller SL, Tipton KD, Chinkes DL, Wolf SE, Wolfe 
RR. Independent and combined effects of amino 
acids and glucose after resistance exercise. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2003;35(3):449–55.  
    58.    Pitkanen HT, Nykanen T, Knuutinen J, Lahti K, 
Keinanen O, Alen M, et al. Free amino acid pool and 
muscle protein balance after resistance exercise. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2003;35(5):784–92.  
    59.    Tipton KD, Ferrando AA, Phillips SM, Doyle DJ, 
Wolfe RR. Postexercise net protein synthesis in 
human muscle from orally administered amino 
acids. Am J Physiol. 1999;276(4 Pt 1):E628–34.  
    60.    Tipton KD, Wolfe RR. Exercise, protein metabo-
lism, and muscle growth. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc 
Metab. 2001;11(1):109–32.  
      61.    Cribb PJ, Hayes A. Effects of supplement timing and 
resistance exercise on skeletal muscle hypertrophy. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2006;38(11):1918–25.  
    62.    Hoffman JR, Ratamess NA, Tranchina CP, Rashti 
SL, Kang J, Faigenbaum AD. Effect of protein- 
supplement timing on strength, power, and body- composition changes in resistance-trained men. Int J 
Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2009;19(2):172–85.  
    63.    Campbell B, Kreider RB, Ziegenfuss T, La Bounty 
P, Roberts M, Burke D, et al. International Society of 
Sports Nutrition position stand: protein and exercise. 
J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2007;4:8.  
      64.    Aragon AA, Schoenfeld BJ. Nutrient timing revis-
ited: is there a post-exercise anabolic window? J Int 
Soc Sports Nutr. 2013;10(1):5.  
        65.    Schoenfeld BJ, Aragon AA, Krieger JW. The effect 
of protein timing on muscle strength and hypertro-
phy: a meta-analysis. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2013;
10(1):53.  
    66.    Arble DM, Bass J, Laposky AD, Vitaterna MH, 
Turek FW. Circadian timing of food intake contrib-
utes to weight gain. Obesity (Silver Spring). 
2009;17(11):2100–2.  
     67.    Bray MS, Tsai JY , Villegas-Montoya C, Boland BB, 
Blasier Z, Egbejimi O, et al. Time-of-day-dependent 
dietary fat consumption inﬂ  uences multiple cardio-
metabolic syndrome parameters in mice. Int J Obes 
(Lond). 2010;34(11):1589–98.  
     68.    de Castro JM. The time of day and the proportions of 
macronutrients eaten are related to total daily food 
intake. Br J Nutr. 2007;98(5):1077–83.  
    69.    Genton L, Melzer K, Pichard C. Energy and macro-
nutrient requirements for physical ﬁ  tness in exercis-
ing subjects. Clin Nutr. 2010;29(4):413–23.  
    70.    Lambert EV , Speechly DP, Dennis SC, Noakes 
TD. Enhanced endurance in trained cyclists during 
moderate intensity exercise following 2 weeks adap-
tation to a high fat diet. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol. 1994;69(4):287–93.  
    71.    Phinney SD, Bistrian BR, Evans WJ, Gervino E, 
Blackburn GL. The human metabolic response to 
chronic ketosis without caloric restriction: preserva-
tion of submaximal exercise capability with reduced 
carbohydrate oxidation. Metabolism. 1983;32(8):
769–76.  
    72.    Johnson NA, Stannard SR, Thompson MW. Muscle 
triglyceride and glycogen in endurance exercise: 
implications for performance. Sports Med. 2004;
34(3):151–64.  
     73.    Burke LM, Kiens B. “Fat adaptation” for athletic 
performance: the nail in the cofﬁ  n? J Appl Physiol. 
2006;100(1):7–8.  
    74.    Burke LM, Hawley JA, Angus DJ, Cox GR, Clark 
SA, Cummings NK, et al. Adaptations to short-term 
high-fat diet persist during exercise despite high 
carbohydrate availability. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
2002;34(1):83–91.  
    75.   Havemann L, West SJ, Goedecke JH, Macdonald 
IA, St Clair Gibson A, Noakes TD, et al. Fat adapta-
tion followed by carbohydrate loading compromises 
high-intensity sprint performance. J Appl Physiol 
(Bethesda, MD: 1985). 2006;100(1):194–202.  
     76.    Barry DW, Hansen KC, van Pelt RE, Witten M, 
Wolfe P, Kohrt WM. Acute calcium ingestion attenu-
ates exercise-induced disruption of calcium homeo-
stasis. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2011;43(4):617–23.  13 Nutrient Timing

326
     77.   Sherk VD, Barry DW, Villalon KL, Hansen KC, 
Wolfe P, Kohrt WM, editors. Timing of calcium 
supplementation relative to exercise alters the cal-
cium homeostatic response to vigorous exercise. 
Endocrine’s Society Annual Meeting; 2013 June 18, 
2013; San Francisco, CA.  
     78.    Shea KL, Barry DW, Sherk VD, Hansen KC, Wolfe 
P, Kohrt WM. Calcium supplementation and PTH 
response to vigorous walking in postmenopausal 
women. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2014;46(10):
2007–13.  
     79.    Fujii T, Matsuo T, Okamura K. The effects of resis-
tance exercise and post-exercise meal timing on the 
iron status in iron-deﬁ  cient rats. Biol Trace Elem 
Res. 2012;147(1–3):200–5.  
    80.    Matsuo T, Kang HS, Suzuki H, Suzuki M. V oluntary 
resistance exercise improves blood hemoglobin con-
centration in severely iron-deﬁ  cient rats. J Nutr Sci 
Vitaminol. 2002;48(2):161–4.  
     81.    Goldstein ER, Ziegenfuss T, Kalman D, Kreider R, 
Campbell B, Wilborn C, et al. International society 
of sports nutrition position stand: caffeine and 
performance. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2010;7(1):5.  
       82.    Ryan EJ, Kim CH, Fickes EJ, Williamson M, Muller 
MD, Barkley JE, et al. Caffeine gum and cycling 
performance: a timing study. J Strength Cond Res. 
2013;27(1):259–64.  
    83.    Glade MJ. Caffeine-not just a stimulant. Nutrition. 
2010;26(10):932–8.  
    84.    Graham TE, Spriet LL. Performance and metabolic 
responses to a high caffeine dose during prolonged 
exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1991;71(6):2292–8.  
    85.    Duncan MJ, Oxford SW. The effect of caffeine inges-
tion on mood state and bench press performance to 
failure. J Strength Cond Res. 2011;25(1):178–85.  
   86.    Duncan MJ, Stanley M, Parkhouse N, Cook K, 
Smith M. Acute caffeine ingestion enhances strength 
performance and reduces perceived exertion and 
muscle pain perception during resistance exercise. 
Eur J Sport Sci. 2013;13(4):392–9.  
    87.    Goldstein ER, Jacobs PL, Whitehurst M, Penhollow 
T, Antonio J. Caffeine enhances upper body strength 
in resistance-trained women. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 
2010;7(1):18.  
    88.   Pedersen DJ, Lessard SJ, Coffey VG, Churchley EG, 
Wootton AM, Ng T, et al. High rates of muscle gly-
cogen resynthesis after exhaustive exercise when 
carbohydrate is coingested with caffeine. J Appl 
Physiol (Bethesda, MD: 1985). 2008;105(1):7–13.  
      89.    Antonio J, Ciccone V . The effects of pre versus post 
workout supplementation of creatine monohydrate 
on body composition and strength. J Int Soc Sports 
Nutr. 2013;10(1):36.  
     90.    Candow DG, Zello GA, Ling B, Farthing JP, 
Chilibeck PD, McLeod K, et al. Comparison of cre-
atine supplementation before versus after supervised 
resistance training in healthy older adults. Res Sports 
Med. 2014;22(1):61–74.  
    91.    Syrotuik DG, Bell GJ. Acute creatine monohydrate 
supplementation: a descriptive physiological proﬁ  le of responders vs. nonresponders. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2004;18(3):610–7.  
    92.    Chilibeck PD, Stride D, Farthing JP, Burke DG. 
Effect of creatine ingestion after exercise on muscle 
thickness in males and females. Med Sci Sports 
Exerc. 2004;36(10):1781–8.  
    93.    Helms ER, Aragon AA, Fitschen PJ. Evidence- 
based recommendations for natural bodybuilding 
contest preparation: nutrition and supplementation. 
J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2014;11:20.  
     94.    Siegler JC, Marshall PW, Bray J, Towlson C. Sodium 
bicarbonate supplementation and ingestion timing: 
does it matter? J Strength Cond Res. 2012;26(7):
1953–8.  
    95.    Keim NL, Van Loan MD, Horn WF, Barbieri TF, 
Mayclin PL. Weight loss is greater with consump-
tion of large morning meals and fat-free mass is pre-
served with large evening meals in women on a 
controlled weight reduction regimen. J Nutr. 1997;
127(1):75–82.  
    96.    de Castro JM. The time of day of food intake inﬂ  u-
ences overall intake in humans. J Nutr. 2004;134(1):
104–11.  
    97.    Wu T, Sun L, ZhuGe F, Guo X, Zhao Z, Tang R, 
et al. Differential roles of breakfast and supper in 
rats of a daily three-meal schedule upon circadian 
regulation and physiology. Chronobiol Int. 2011;
28(10):890–903.  
    98.    Loboda A, Kraft WK, Fine B, Joseph J, Nebozhyn M, 
Zhang C, et al. Diurnal variation of the human adi-
pose transcriptome and the link to metabolic disease. 
BMC Med Genomics. 2009;2:7.  
    99.    Ma Y , Bertone ER, Stanek 3rd EJ, Reed GW, Hebert 
JR, Cohen NL, et al. Association between eating pat-
terns and obesity in a free-living US adult popula tion. 
Am J Epidemiol. 2003;158(1):85–92.  
       100.    Jakubowicz D, Barnea M, Wainstein J, Froy O. 
High caloric intake at breakfast vs. dinner differen-
tially inﬂ  uences weight loss of overweight and obese 
women. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2013;21(12):
2504–12.  
    101.    Leidy HJ, Bossingham MJ, Mattes RD, Campbell 
WW. Increased dietary protein consumed at break-
fast leads to an initial and sustained feeling of full-
ness during energy restriction compared to other 
meal times. Br J Nutr. 2009;101(6):798–803.  
    102.    Leidy HJ, Racki EM. The addition of a protein-rich 
breakfast and its effects on acute appetite control and 
food intake in ‘breakfast-skipping’ adolescents. Int J 
Obes (Lond). 2010;34(7):1125–33.  
    103.    Fabry P, Hejl Z, Fodor J, Braun T, Zvolankova 
K. The frequency of meals. Its relation to over-
weight, hypercholesterolaemia, and decreased 
glucose- tolerance. Lancet. 1964;2(7360):614–5.  
    104.    Hejda S, Fabry P. Frequency of food intake in rela-
tion to some parameters of the nutritional status. 
Nutr Dieta Eur Rev Nutr Diet. 1964;64:216–28.  
    105.    Metzner HL, Lamphiear DE, Wheeler NC, Larkin 
FA. The relationship between frequency of eating 
and adiposity in adult men and women in the C.M. Kerksick and N.H. Cole

327
Tecumseh Community Health Study. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 1977;30(5):712–5.  
    106.    Cameron JD, Cyr MJ, Doucet E. Increased meal fre-
quency does not promote greater weight loss in sub-
jects who were prescribed an 8-week equi-energetic 
energy-restricted diet. Br J Nutr. 2010;103(8):
1098–101.  
    107.   Alencar MK, Kerksick CM, Beam J, McCormick J, 
White A, Salgado R, et al., editors. Inﬂ  uence of meal 
frequency on insulin, glucose, and appetite control in 
obese women undergoing a portion-controlled 
weight-loss intervention. American College of 
Sports Medicine; 2014 Wednesday, May 28th, 
2014.; Orlando, FL.  
    108.    Farshchi HR, Taylor MA, Macdonald IA. Beneﬁ  cial 
metabolic effects of regular meal frequency on 
dietary thermogenesis, insulin sensitivity, and fast-
ing lipid proﬁ  les in healthy obese women. Am J Clin 
Nutr. 2005;81(1):16–24.  
    109.    Bellisle F, McDevitt R, Prentice AM. Meal fre-
quency and energy balance. Br J Nutr. 1997;77 
Suppl 1:S57–70.  
    110.    Kulovitz MG, Kravitz LR, Mermier C, Gibson AL, 
Conn CA, Kolkmeyer D, et al. Potential role of meal 
frequency as a strategy for weight loss and health in 
overweight or obese adults. Nutrition. 2014;30(4):
386–92.  
    111.    La Bounty PM, Campbell BI, Wilson J, Galvan E, 
Berardi J, Kleiner SM, et al. International Society of 
Sports Nutrition position stand: meal frequency. J Int 
Soc Sports Nutr. 2011;8:4.  
     112.    Moore DR, Areta J, Coffey VG, Stellingwerff T, 
Phillips SM, Burke LM, et al. Daytime pattern of 
post-exercise protein intake affects whole-body 
protein turnover in resistance-trained males. Nutr 
Metab (Lond). 2012;9(1):91.  
    113.    Areta JL, Burke LM, Ross ML, Camera DM, West 
DW, Broad EM, et al. Timing and distribution of 
protein ingestion during prolonged recovery from resistance exercise alters myoﬁ  brillar protein syn-
thesis. J Physiol. 2013;591(Pt 9):2319–31.  
    114.    Weisgarber KD, Candow DG, V ogt ES. Whey pro-
tein before and during resistance exercise has no 
effect on muscle mass and strength in untrained 
young adults. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2012;
22(6):463–9.  
    115.    Mamerow MM, Mettler JA, English KL, Casperson 
SL, Arentson-Lantz E, Shefﬁ  eld-Moore M, et al. 
Dietary protein distribution positively inﬂ  uences 24-h 
muscle protein synthesis in healthy adults. J Nutr. 
2014;144(6):876–80.  
    116.    Res PT, Groen B, Pennings B, Beelen M, Wallis GA, 
Gijsen AP, et al. Protein ingestion before sleep 
improves postexercise overnight recovery. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc. 2012;44(8):1560–9.  
    117.    Minor BD, Heusinger DE, Melanson EL, Hamilton 
KL, Miller BF. Energy balance changes the anabolic 
effect of postexercise feeding in older individuals. 
J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2012;67(11):1161–9.  
    118.    Jordan LY , Melanson EL, Melby CL, Hickey MS, 
Miller BF. Nitrogen balance in older individuals in 
energy balance depends on timing of protein intake. 
J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2010;65(10):
1068–76.  
    119.    Greer BK, Price A, Jones B. Timing inﬂ  uence of 
carbohydrate-protein ingestion on muscle soreness 
and next-day running performance. J Diet Suppl. 
2014;11(2):166–74.  
    120.    Heesch MW, Mieras ME, Slivka DR. The perfor-
mance effect of early versus late carbohydrate feed-
ings during prolonged exercise. Appl Physiol Nutr 
Metab. 2014;39(1):58–63.  
    121.    Trabelsi K, Stannard SR, Maughan RJ, Jammoussi 
K, Zeghal K, Hakim A. Effect of resistance training 
during Ramadan on body composition and markers 
of renal function, metabolism, inﬂ  ammation, and 
immunity in recreational bodybuilders. Int J Sport 
Nutr Exerc Metab. 2012;22(4):267–75.      13 Nutrient Timing

329 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_14      Carbohydrate Utilization 
and Disposal in Strength/Power 
Training and Sports: Examining 
the Underexamined 
           Anthony     L.     Almada       and     David     Barr    
    Abstract  
  Since the seminal work of Bergström and Hultman almost 50 years ago, a 
plethora of studies have focused upon carbohydrate utilization and dis-
posal, predominantly in the context of endurance training and competi-
tion. Surprisingly, despite carbohydrate (primarily glycogen) being a 
predominant fuel substrate in strength/power training and sports, a relative 
paucity of data exists. The advent of low carbohydrate, “keto,” “paleo,” 
and “train low, compete high” diets has ushered in a widely held belief that 
even moderate carbohydrate intake is unwarranted and may promote 
excessive lipogenesis among intensively training individuals. A perusal of 
the literature wherein muscle glycogen is inaccessible (e.g., McArdle’s 
disease) or quantiﬁ  ed throughout exercise reveals substantial glycogenol-
ysis during intense strength/power and high-intensity intermittent training, 
contrasted to a dearth of data regarding direct carbohydrate oxidation  rates   
during such types of exercise. A greater understanding of carbohydrate 
ﬂ ux and demands during strength/power training and sports may foster 
new investigations and applications, as well as accelerate training adapta-
tions and performance.  
  Keywords  
  Glycogen   •   Carbohydrate   •   Lactate   •   Ketogenic   •   Resistance exercise   • 
  McArdle’s disease   •   Intermittent exercise   •   High intensity   •   Intramuscular 
triglycerides      
        A.  L.   Almada ,  MSc, FISSN      ( *) • 
   D.   Barr ,  BSc, CSCS, CISSN   
  Vitargo Global Sciences, LLC ,   32565 B Golden 
Lantern PMB 232 ,  Dana Point ,  CA ,  USA   
 e-mail: anthony@vitargos2.com       14

330
14.1      Introduction 
 Matching the metabolic fuel demand rate with 
fuel selection/availability is what enables an 
athlete to perform six sets of squats for 8–10 
repetitions at 75 % of 1 rep maximum (1RM) 
with 2 min of rest between sets, then run on a 
treadmill for 45 min at 50 % of maximal oxygen 
uptake (V O2max ), and then climb a 15 % grade of 
stairs over a distance of 100 m, in any order. The 
metabolic promiscuity of skeletal muscle, in its 
selection and utilization of substrates, is deﬁ  ned 
by the rate of ATP provision from available 
fuels. The major fuels available to muscle are 
lipid, carbohydrate, protein, and phosphocre-
atine (PCr). The relative abundance (capacity, in 
weight) of body lipid as a fuel substrate is offset 
by its reduced adenosine triphosphate (ATP) 
yield under training conditions marked by lim-
ited oxygen supply to working muscle. Indeed, 
energy yield from carbohydrate (CHO) oxida-
tion during the performance of high-intensity 
work exceeds that obtained from lipid oxida-
tion, both in rate and magnitude [ 1 ]. The supe-
rior kinetics of energy provision from CHO 
oxidation (via glycogenolysis and glycolysis) 
during intense exercise are contrasted to the 
relatively modest amount of carbohydrate stores 
(as glycogen, in the liver and muscle). Amino 
acids, primarily as branched chain amino acids 
(leucine, valine, and isoleucine; BCAAs), and 
predominantly leucine, are  trivial   fuels during 
intense exercise, e.g., resistance exercise [ 2 ,  3 ], 
yet skeletal muscle is the primary site of whole 
body leucine oxidation at rest [ 4 ]. Despite the 
abundance of body protein stores, it would seem counterproductive (from a teleological perspec-
tive) to the human organism to have even a mod-
est reliance upon this potential fuel source, 
given that proteins exhibit essential structural, 
transport, catalytic (enzymatic), and locomotive 
roles, and abundant “storage” proteins remain 
 undiscovered  . 
 The immediate high-force generation (ATP) 
demands of high-intensity strength and power 
exercise are met by the integration of glycoly-
sis and glycogen and phosphocreatine (PCr) 
breakdown (together comprising substrate-level 
phosphorylation) to support the obligate ATP 
resynthesis rates. The intramuscular glyco-
gen reductions and lactate accumulation (from 
anaerobic glycolysis) that ensue from this type of 
muscular work can be seen within seconds after 
the onset of exercise [ 5 – 7 ]. The bioenergetic 
“power” liberated from substrate-level phos-
phorylation (of ADP to ATP) is offset by its low 
capacity (duration), rendering such high output 
 unsustainable   beyond a few minutes. In this con-
text, it is intriguing to speculate that individuals 
exhibiting lower circulating and muscle PCr con-
centrations [ 8 – 10 ] may exhibit a relatively higher 
reliance upon anaerobic glycolysis, as has been 
demonstrated in mice with reduced muscle PCr 
under skeletal muscle ischemic (anaerobic gly-
colysis) conditions [ 11 ]. Recent genome-wide 
association studies in humans have described a 
link between single nucleotide polymorphisms 
in the gene encoding  L -arginine:glycine amidino-
transferase (AGAT), a rate limiting enzyme in de 
novo creatine biosynthesis, and blood concentra-
tions of one of its direct products, homoarginine 
[ 12 ]. This suggests that muscle creatine and PCr 
concentrations in humans may be governed, in  Religion is like a pair of shoes…Find one that ﬁ  ts for you, but don’t make me 
wear your shoes. 
 — George Carlin, comedian 
 And faith, by its very deﬁ  nition, tends to be impervious to intellectual argument or 
academic criticism. 
 — Jon Krakauer, author A.L. Almada and D. Barr

331
part, by AGAT expression/activity. Collectively, 
these ﬁ  ndings intimate a spectrum of ATP pro-
vision derived from the variable and integrated 
interplay between glycolysis/glycogenolysis and 
PCr hydrolysis, based upon resting muscle PCr 
content. 
 It is beyond the scope of this chapter to address 
PCr as a substrate. The reader is referred to some 
excellent reviews that include supplementation 
with creatine monohydrate to increase intramus-
cular PCr content and work capacity [ 13 – 17 ].  
14.2     Substrate Utilization: 
Intramuscular Carbohydrate 
and Lipid 
 Skeletal muscle displays metabolic plasticity, 
enabling it to adapt to its state of fuel reserves 
and the diverse metabolic demands the human 
organism encounters. Among the two abundant, 
exercise-centric substrates supplied by diet and 
stored in muscle (lipid and carbohydrate), carbo-
hydrate is unique in that it (1) is produced de 
novo (via gluconeogenesis); (2) is capable of 
 acutely  inﬂ  uencing performance when delivered 
from exogenous sources, e.g., intravenous and 
oral;  and  (3) can hyperaccumulate over a short 
time interval (glycogen supercompensation). 
14.2.1     McArdle’s Disease: Human 
“Knockout” Model 
of Glycogen-Free Exercise 
 Seminal studies by Hermansen et al. [ 18 ] and 
Tesch et al. [ 19 ] illuminated the substantial role 
of muscle glycogen in intermittent and continu-
ous high-intensity (71–87 % of V O2max ) cycling 
and resistance training, respectively. Additional 
insights can be gleaned from assessing exercise 
performance and fuel utilization among persons 
living with McArdle’s disease (MCD). In 1951, 
British physician Brian McArdle published his 
landmark case report of a patient presenting with 
idiopathic exercise intolerance [ 20 ]. McArdle 
had the patient perform an ischemic exercise test 
and noted their inability to display an increase in venous lactate (or pyruvate), which he inferred 
was due to a block in glycogenolysis. 
 MCD remains the most common muscle met-
abolic disease, deﬁ  ned by a lack of myophos-
phorylase, the skeletal muscle-speciﬁ  c isoform 
of glycogen phosphorylase. Myophosphorylase 
is the obligate enzyme in glycogenolysis [ 21 ]. 
Accordingly, persons with MCD chronically 
exhibit “supraphysiological” muscle glycogen 
concentrations, exceeding up to double that of 
persons without MCD, and do not display an 
increase or can even display a  decrease   in circu-
lating lactate during exercise, the latter due to 
intramuscular lactate oxidation [ 20 – 23 ]. When a 
person with MCD commences moderate to vig-
orous exercise, the obligatory role of muscle gly-
cogen is unveiled. Within several minutes after 
the onset of exercise, they experience an intoler-
ance to further exercise, fatigue, tachycardia, 
and/or severe muscle pain, with no or only mod-
est changes in muscle pH and lactate. 
 The genotypic hallmark of MCD is a muta-
tion in the gene encoding for myophosphorylase 
and a frank absence of both the gene product and 
associated enzyme activity (among the majority 
of those with MCD [ 23 ]). The phenotypic trade-
mark of MCD is a “second wind” [ 24 ], deﬁ  ned 
as an improved tolerability to exercise that mani-
fests after a reduction in exercise intensity, after 
a brief rest, or abruptly after 8–10 min of 
s ustained exercise. The lag period after initial 
exercise onset provides an opportunity for blood-
borne (extramuscular) fuels (free fatty acids, 
hepatic- derived glucose, and, possibly, circulat-
ing lactate [ 24 ,  25 ]) to make pace with the sub-
strate demands of exercise. Collectively, this 
results in a precipitous fall in heart rate and 
improved exercise tolerance. This reduced 
capacity at exercise onset underscores the criti-
cal role of glycogenolysis in the rest to exercise 
transition and the contribution of glycogenolysis 
to substrate-level phosphorylation. Indeed, in the 
index subject where the “second wind phenom-
enon” was ﬁ  rst characterized [ 24 ], the subject 
reported performing a sprint race of approxi-
mately 200 yards, wherein he initially took the 
lead but at 50 yards began to fatigue and had to 
stop at 100 yards, due to a complete inability to move. 14 Carbohydrate Utilization and Disposal in Strength/Power Training and Sports…

332
This suggests substrate- level phosphorylation 
relying solely upon PCr hydrolysis. 
 Provision of BCAAs to persons with MCD 
further underscores the insigniﬁ  cant role these 
amino acids exert vis-à-vis substrate utilization 
of exercising muscle: one open-label study with 
three MCD subjects provided 0.3 grams/kilogram 
body mass (g/kg bm) of a non-descript blend of 
BCAAs, 45–60 min before consecutive strength 
and endurance exercise bouts, with no enhance-
ment over fasting or dextrose solution (provided 
45 min pre-exercise) [ 26 ]. A single- blind design 
with six MCD subjects administered 77 mg 
BCAAs/kg bm (44 % leucine, 30 % valine, 26 % 
isoleucine) in a beverage 30 min before a 20-min 
bout of cycle ergometry at a maximum tolerable 
capacity [ 27 ]. Despite plasma individual BCAAs 
increasing 2.3–4.3-fold (3.8× higher for leucine) 
near the onset of exercise, the BCAA supplement 
was associated with an  ergolytic   effect in ﬁ  ve of 
the six subjects, compared to a noncaloric pla-
cebo beverage. 
 Acute increases in lipid availability (via lipid 
infusion 30 min pre-exercise) do not improve 
exercise tolerance in MCD (deﬁ  ned by heart rate 
response) [ 28 ,  29 ], despite signiﬁ  cant increases 
in whole body fat oxidation aligned with the 
onset of the second wind [ 30 ]. This suggests a 
“ceiling” effect of lipid oxidation and oxidative 
phosphorylation, perhaps due to reduced glyco-
lytic ﬂ  ux and the attendant reduction in anaple-
rotic intermediates [ 31 ], e.g., pyruvate. 
 Distinctively, there do not appear to be any 
controlled, systematic dietary intervention stud-
ies employing long-term adaptation to a  low- 
carbohydrate  / high-fat   diet in MCD, to assess the 
impact of an acquired shift in substrate selection 
[ 32 ]. The longest and largest open-label longitu-
dinal study followed four persons (one female, 
three males) with MCD, undertaking a macronu-
trient shift to 70 % dietary fat and 20 % protein, 
for 18 months [ 33 ]. After 2 months, one male 
withdrew from the diet, while the remaining sub-
jects persisted through 18 months. Despite blood 
creatine kinase concentration falling by 40 %, 
strength and endurance testing showed no 
improvement, and none of the subjects elected to 
continue with the diet.  A subset of patients with MCD display frac tional 
(1–3 %) myophosphorylase activity and, thus, 
partial glycogenolytic capacity [ 23 ,  31 ]. These 
subjects with “atypical” MCD show markedly 
higher peak work rates in the initial ﬁ  rst minutes 
of exercise onset, show a milder second wind 
phenomenon, and do  not  display a glucose-
infusion- mediated second wind response. They 
also exhibit V O2max  and peak workloads (both dur-
ing cycle ergometry) nearly double that of MCD 
with total myophosphorylase deﬁ  ciency. Still, the 
V O2max  values are 55–65 % of age- and gender- 
matched controls [ 23 ]. In contradistinction, per-
sons with atypical MCD display an anaerobic 
work capacity (ischemic maximal handgrip exer-
cise) that is identical to that of MCD with frank 
myophosphorylase deﬁ  ciency, being approxi-
mately one-third of control subjects [ 23 ]. 
  Collectively, MCD, in both the severe and 
milder phenotypic forms, illustrates the axial role 
of muscle glycogen as a fuel substrate and of gly-
colytic ﬂ  ux for anaplerotic support of oxidative 
phosphorylation, in both low-moderate- and 
high-intensity exercises. This is further illus-
trated by the inability of acute increases in avail-
able lipid or oxidizable amino acid (BCAAs) 
substrate to compensate for the compromised 
availability of glucose substrate. The unavail-
ability of glycogen’s glucose reserves translates 
into signiﬁ  cant reductions in absolute exercise 
tolerance and relative exercise performance.    
14.2.2     Resistance Exercise 
 Studies that have examined carbohydrate utiliza-
tion during exercise appear to be heavily skewed 
toward  endurance   training. Whether this reﬂ  ects 
the personal interests of researchers, the prefer-
ences of granting agencies, or other variables is 
irrelevant, but it does illuminate the relatively 
small body of evidence supporting resistance 
training and substrate utilization. Notably, there 
appear to be a lack of studies that have systemati-
cally examined, with quantitative measurements 
(e.g., stable isotopes), glucose and lipid oxidation 
 during   resistance training (RT), the challenging 
nature of RT being an  intermittent   exercise not A.L. Almada and D. Barr

333
being unrecognized [ 34 ]. Nevertheless, several 
studies have examined muscle glycogen 
 utilization during intensive RT bouts. The ger-
mane, pioneering work of Tesch and colleagues 
was ﬁ  rst evidenced in a study with nine experi-
enced male bodybuilders (ﬁ  ve were competitive) 
who performed an array of resistance training 
exercises to failure, targeting the upper legs, after 
consuming a light breakfast (composition not 
described) [ 35 ]. Following the completion of 20 
sets (ﬁ  ve sets for each of four exercises; repeti-
tions to self-determined failure on every set; 
approximately 30-min duration), muscle glyco-
gen in the left vastus lateralis had declined by 
26 % (the paper described a  40  % decrease). 
 In a follow-up report 4 years later from 
Tesch’s laboratory [ 36 ], using the same experi-
mental data as in [ 35 ], they reported a 28 % fall 
in glycogen. Additionally, they also described 
changes in intramuscular triglyceride content 
IMTG. Four of the nine subjects showed very 
low IMTG, while the intersubject range at rest 
varied greater than sixfold (muscle glycogen 
content varied by  1.6-fold   between subjects). 
Among the ﬁ  ve subjects with pre-exercise IMTG 
greater than 20 mmol/kg dry weight (dw) of 
muscle, post- exercise IMTG had declined, the 
group (inclusive of the other four subjects) 
showing a mean 30 % decrease. Complementing 
the intramuscular substrate change, halfway 
through the training session, the concentration of 
plasma free fatty acids (FFA) had increased 
modestly ( ≈15 %), while plasma glycerol rose 
nearly eightfold by the end of the session, attain-
ing its zenith in the ﬁ  rst 10 min after ﬁ  nishing 
the bout. The authors asserted that a higher rest-
ing IMTG fostered a greater utilization of this 
fuel substrate during the training session, irre-
spective of the resting muscle glycogen content, 
with both substrates being used but a higher rest-
ing IMTG exerting an apparent glycogen “spar-
ing” effect. However, this study did not 
systematically assess if IMTG was  utilized as a 
fuel substrate   (by whole body or working mus-
cle) during RT, only their  disappearance . 
 Other studies have shown reductions in both 
muscle glycogen and IMTG after a  single   bout of 
leg RT, under acute low- and high-carbohydrate diet/glycogen deplete and replete conditions, 
respectively ( endurance  -trained cyclists/triath letes; 
[ 37 ]), and in untrained lean males [ 38 ] and over-
weight females [ 39 ]. A recent study employed a 
supervised, 6-week RT program with lean 
(22.9 % body fat), sedentary males [ 40 ]. Before 
and after completion of the RT program, the sub-
jects performed a single bout of 1 h of cycle 
ergometry at ≈ 65 % of V O2max  (for the post- RT 
cycling bout, the subjects cycled at ≈ 65 % of 
 pre -RT V O2max ). No post-training changes in car-
bohydrate or fat oxidation rates nor respiratory 
exchange ratio (RER) manifested, while heart 
rate (after completion of the training program) 
was signiﬁ  cantly lower. Remarkably, IMTG in 
type I muscle ﬁ  bers (post-RT program; at rest) 
 increased   signiﬁ  cantly (+52 %;  P  = 0.01) and by 
46 % ( P  = 0.10) in type II ﬁ  bers. After the pre-RT 
cycle bout, type I ﬁ  ber IMTG declined by 30 % 
( P  = 0.04) yet did not appear to change in type II 
ﬁ bers. Subsequent to 6 weeks of RT, the cycle 
bout induced a drop of IMTG within both type I 
(43 %;  P  < 0.01) and type II (37 %;  P  = 0.01) 
ﬁ bers. The greater magnitude of disappearance of 
IMTG from the endurance exercise bout, after a 
6-week RT program, coupled with the absence of 
a change in whole body fat oxidation rates, 
strongly suggests that lipid substrate shifted from 
FFA of plasma origin to IMTG. The overt dem-
onstration of increased whole body  utilization  of 
IMTG [ 41 ] during  resistance training   remains to 
be validated. 
 A study by Robergs et al. evaluated eight 
resistance-trained males who performed two dif-
ferent, RT regimens with equal work amounts 
but differing intensities, on consecutive days [ 42 ]. 
On the ﬁ  rst day, all subjects performed six sets of 
six repetitions of single leg extensions at 70 % 
of one repetition maximum (1RM). The next 
day, subjects completed six sets of leg exten-
sions with the contralateral leg, but at 35 % of 
1RM. Muscle biopsies (vastus lateralis) were 
taken immediately before each exercise, after 
completion of the third and sixth sets, and 2 h 
post exercise (no caloric intake was allowed dur-
ing the recovery period). Muscle glycogen fell 
similarly in each treatment (39 % for 70 % 1RM 
and 38 % for 35 % 1RM). Correspondingly, the 14 Carbohydrate Utilization and Disposal in Strength/Power Training and Sports…

334
rate of glycogenolysis during the 70 % 1RM 
bout was approximately double that observed 
during 35 % 1RM, with the time to completion 
and repetitions/set during the 35 % 1RM exer-
cise being approximately twice that of 70 % 
1RM. Lacking from this design was a crossover 
component, to assess the impact of an order 
effect, i.e., would the 35 % 1RM bout performed 
on day  1  have altered the glycogen utilization 
rate relative to day 2, at 70 % 1RM? 
 An investigation by MacDougall (ﬁ  rst reported 
in 1988 as a meeting abstract; [ 43 ]) and collabo-
rators assessed muscle glycogen utilization in a 
prized, but rarely biopsied, muscle group—the 
 biceps brachii  . Eight experienced, bodybuilding- 
type RT men performed one or three sets of sin-
gle arm, seated bicep curls at 80 % 1RM to failure 
[ 44 ]. Muscle biopsies were obtained from the 
control arm prior to the exercise and from the 
exercising arm after ﬁ  nishing either set. A statis-
tically nonsigniﬁ  cant (12 %) decline in muscle 
glycogen was noted after the single set exercise. 
After completion of the three sets, a signiﬁ  cant 
(24 %;  P  < 0.05) decline was measured. 
 As part of a carbohydrate supplementation 
crossover intervention, Haff and colleagues [ 45 ] 
engaged eight resistance-trained males to per-
form a series of three RT bouts: (1) a warm-up 
set and then three higher-intensity (2.09 rad/s) 
sets of 10 reps of isokinetic leg extensions/ 
ﬂ exions (ISO1) (3-min rest between sets); (2) 
5 min after ﬁ  nishing the isokinetic bout, three 
sets of ten reps of each of three different squat 
exercises (3-min rest between sets; SQ); and (3) 
after 5 min of rest after the squat exercises, the 
subjects repeated the isokinetic test (ISO2). 
Muscle (vastus lateralis) biopsies were procured 
prior to and immediately after ISO1 and 
SQ. After ISO, muscle glycogen had decreased 
by 15.2–19.2 %. After SQ, it had declined by 
40.7 % compared to baseline/pre- ISO and by 
26.7 % between post-ISO and post-SQ. 
 Dietary manipulation combined with strate-
gic glycogen-depleting exercise has been uti-
lized to assess differences in separate limbs 
within the same subjects. In a study from John 
Hawley’s lab, Churchley et al. enrolled seven, 
resistance- trained males and implemented acute diet and exercise treatments to produce a 
glycogen- adequate (“Normal”) leg and a glyco-
gen-reduced (“Low”), contralateral leg [ 46 ]. 
Subjects performed eight sets of ﬁ  ve repetitions 
of single leg presses at 80 % 1RM, for each leg. 
The exercise began with the Low leg, with 60 s 
of rest before the Normal leg completed the 
same set. Weight was dropped by 5 % in sets 
where the Low leg could not perform ﬁ  ve repeti-
tions. Muscle biopsies (vastus lateralis) were 
harvested prior to the exercise and after the last 
(eighth) set for each leg. Despite resting glyco-
gen in Low being signiﬁ  cantly lesser (−44 %; 
 P  < 0.01) than Normal, net glycogen utilization 
(in mmol/kg dw) was similar between legs. 
However, the markedly lesser pre-bout glycogen 
in the Low leg led to 47 % of baseline glycogen 
being utilized, contrasted to 28 % of the pre-RT 
bout glycogen measured in the Normal leg. 
Distinctively, work capacity of the Low leg was 
impaired, relative to the Normal leg (JA Hawley, 
personal communication). 
  Resistance exercise has an obligate require-
ment for glycogen in a variety of muscle groups, 
evidenced by signiﬁ  cant utilization even after the 
performance of three sets. It appears that the 
moderate to substantial disappearance (likely 
utilization) of intramuscular/intramyocellular 
lipid during resistance training is widely unap-
preciated. Its metabolic role in this type of train-
ing remains to be revealed.    
14.2.3     Power/High-Intensity 
Intermittent Exercise 
 High power output/supramaximal exercise has 
been used to ascertain the magnitude and kinet-
ics of glycogen utilization. The use of a bicycle 
ergometer, over a non-motorized treadmill, 
allows for the optimization of a load deﬁ  ned by 
the applied resistance, with a treadmill’s resis-
tance being the inertial elements of the belt and 
bearings and only the  propulsive   aspect of total 
power generated by running being captured [ 47 ]. 
Gollnick et al. had six endurance-trained males. 
perform six, one minute bouts at ≈ 150 % V O2max  
on a bicycle er gometer, with a 10-min rest period A.L. Almada and D. Barr

335
interven ing between each bout [ 48 ]. Muscle 
biopsies (vastus lateralis) were taken before the 
ﬁ rst bout and after the ﬁ  rst, third, and sixth 
bouts. After bout 1, glycogen had fallen by 20 % 
and continued to decline in a linear fashion such 
that after bout 6, it had reached a value 62.8 % 
less than baseline (pre-bout 1). After the ﬁ  nal 
bout, the subjects reported being unable to con-
tinue, associated with glycogen depletion in fast 
twitch muscle ﬁ  bers. 
 A group comprised of two well-trained 
 (oarsmen/rowers) and four recreationally active 
males performed high-intensity cycle ergometry 
(≈140 % V O2max ) for 1-min intervals, with 3-min 
rest periods, until they were unable to sustain 
30 s of cycling. MacDougall and colleagues [ 49 ] 
demonstrated that this high-intensity intermittent 
exercise protocol elicited a variable decrement in 
muscle glycogen (pre vs. post exercise), ranging 
from 41.3 to 82.9 % (one of the oarsmen dis-
played the smallest decline while the other the 
greatest drop in glycogen content, within the 
group; the oarsmen also displayed the shortest 
times to exhaustion: ≈ 6–7 min). As a group, the 
mean decline in glycogen was 46 %. Because the 
supramaximal effort deﬁ  ned by ≈ 140 % V O2max  is 
relative, the two oarsmen undertook workloads 
that were dramatically greater, on an absolute 
scale, relative to the other four subjects. The 
authors thus ascribed the shorter times to exhaus-
tion to this factor. No explanation was given for 
the variance in glycogen utilization rates between 
the oarsmen, although work and power output 
were not measured. 
 High-intensity intermittent training (HIIT) has 
been associated with a progressive impairment in 
glycogenolysis. In 1986, McCartney and collabo-
rators had eight active but untrained males per-
form four 30-s maximal isokinetic cycling bouts, 
with an intervening 4-min rest period [ 50 ]. After 
the ﬁ rst bout, leg muscle (vastus lateralis) glyco-
gen was reduced by 21.2 % (relative to baseline), 
fell another 21.8 % after bout 2 (equal to a 38.5 % 
decrease from baseline), and then ceased declin-
ing through bouts 3 and 4. Peak and average 
power fell by an additional ≈ 21 % in bout 3 and 
did not change further in bout 4. The arrested gly-
cogenolysis seen after bouts 3 and 4 was marked by no further increase in plasma lactate and a 
dramatic, ﬁ  vefold rise in plasma glycerol, unat-
tended by a rise in plasma fatty acids. Two of the 
subjects had intramuscular ATP and PCr content 
measured just before the  beginning   of bouts 2 
and 4, displaying signiﬁ  cant rephosphorylation 
recovery (ATP, 95 and 90 % of baseline, respec-
tively; PCr, 76 and 78 % of baseline, respec-
tively). The authors speculated that the 
glycerol-speciﬁ  c rise was indicative of signiﬁ  cant 
lipolysis of IMTG, the liberated FFA undergoing 
intramuscular oxidation and thus not appearing 
in the circulation, although no data were col-
lected to support this hypothesis. 
 Eight physical education students undertook 
an HIIT protocol, involving ten maximal cycle 
ergometer sprints of 6-s duration, with a 30-s 
recovery between each sprint [ 6 ]. Muscle (vastus 
lateralis) biopsies obtained at baseline and after 
the ﬁ rst bout revealed a 13.7 % decline ( P  < 0.01). 
Muscle glycogen fell by 13.7 % after bout 1 
( P  < 0.01), by 19.1 % ( P  < 0.01) between the end 
of bout 1 and  prior   to bout 10, and 8.8 % 
( P  < 0.01) from pre-bout 10 to post-bout 10. The 
total decline from baseline, after ten bouts, was 
36.4 % ( P  < 0.01). The calculated drop in the gly-
cogenolytic rate seen in the ﬁ  rst sprint and the 
last (tenth) was tenfold. In contrast, PCr hydroly-
sis was calculated to provide 80 % of the ATP 
generation during the tenth sprint. Gaitanos et al. 
asserted that the 30-s rest interval was adequate 
to support bioenergetically signiﬁ  cant rephos-
phorylation of creatine to PCr and thus contribute 
to power output in the face of a large decline in 
glycogenolysis. 
 In another HIIT protocol, apparently untrained 
young males undertook three, 30-s maximal iso-
kinetic cycling bouts with 4-min rest periods 
[ 51 ], and muscle (vastus lateralis) biopsies were 
taken at rest and at 6, 15, and 30 s of bouts 1 and 
3. Average power output during bout 1 was 
35.5 % greater than bout 3. After bout 1, muscle 
glycogen was reduced by ≈ 19 % yet did not 
undergo further change, even after bout 3. Muscle 
lactate concentration increased dramatically 
(numerical values not provided) by the end of 
bout 1 and had climbed even higher by the  begin-
ning  of bout 3 yet did not change thereafter. 14 Carbohydrate Utilization and Disposal in Strength/Power Training and Sports…

336
Muscle PCr content fell signiﬁ  cantly (91.4 %; 
 P  < 0.05) from rest to the end of bout 1. However, 
although bout 3 PCr content was signiﬁ  cantly 
reduced ( P  < 0.05) relative to the same time point 
in bout 1, the concentration was 78 % of that 
measured  before   bout 1. 
  These power/HIIT studies support the notion 
that substrate-level phosphorylation relying    pri-
marily    upon PCr hydrolysis (as described above 
in McArdle’s disease—with absent or greatly 
compromised glycogenolysis and glycolytic ﬂ  ux) 
may be insufﬁ  cient to sustain maximal power 
generation. Muscular work requiring substantial 
power outputs, as seen in HIIT, has an essential 
reliance upon substrate-level phosphorylation 
(both glycogen-fueled glycolysis    and   PCr) to 
meet the metabolic ATP demands. The repeated 
performance of this type of training results in 
dramatic reductions in the rate of glycogen utili-
zation, with power output being supported, albeit 
with a progressive, temporal decrement, by 
phosphocreatine- dependent ATP resynthesis.    
14.2.4     Manipulation of Muscle 
Glycogen I. Acute Low- 
Carbohydrate Diet 
    Short-term (1–7 days) restriction of dietary car-
bohydrate, in combination with speciﬁ  c exercises 
that promote glycogen depletion and reductions 
in glycogenic substrate, offers insight into the 
contribution of muscle (and liver) glycogen to 
fuel provision and muscular performance. In 
1989, Symons and Jacobs published what may be 
the ﬁ rst paper assessing resistance exercise per-
formance in a reduced muscle glycogen state 
[ 52 ]. They enrolled eight male subjects “accus-
tomed” to (training state not deﬁ  ned) leg RT 
exercises and had them perform a battery of exer-
cise: electrical stimulation of the leg extensors to 
determine isometric force; determination of max-
imal, voluntary isometric contraction (leg exten-
sion); and a muscle fatigue test (MFT) via 50 
isokinetic maximal single leg extension repeti-
tions. Glycogen depletion was achieved through 
cycling (ergometer) at varying intensities and 
durations and maximal unilateral leg extensions. Subjects performed the same tests, once with a 
2.5-day period of low-carbohydrate (meals pro-
vided; 60–80 g/day; ≈ 8–10 % CHO) intake and 
the other experimental period where the subjects 
ate their “normal” diet (carbohydrate content not 
described). Muscle biopsies (vastus lateralis) 
revealed a mean 64.2 % reduction in glycogen 
after the low-carbohydrate diet (153 mmol/kg 
dw) relative to the control diet (427 mmol/kg 
dw). Despite this change, the performance mea-
sures, and whole blood (earlobe) lactate concen-
trations, did not differ between treatments. 
 A decade later, Balsom and colleagues [ 53 ] 
had seven trained physical education students 
(type of training not described) perform an 
exhaustive cycling protocol (variable intensity 
and duration, to achieve muscle glycogen deple-
tion). Twenty-four hours later, they performed an 
HIIT session comprised of ﬁ  fteen 6-s bouts on a 
cycle ergometer with a target pedaling frequency 
(140 rpm), with 30-s rest intervals (“Short”). This 
was then followed 24 h later by a different HIIT 
protocol, employing the same exercise and rest 
intervals but to a predetermined fatigue point 
(“Long”) rather than a speciﬁ  c number of bouts, 
with ≈ 20 % lesser resistance applied to the 
ergometer’s ﬂ  ywheel (relative to Short). Each 
subject performed this entire protocol twice, dif-
fering by adherence to a low-carbohydrate (meals 
supplied; ≈ 30 g/day; 4 % CHO, 64 % fat, and 
32 % protein) or high-carbohydrate (meals sup-
plied; ≈ 500 g CHO/day; ≈ 67 % CHO, 20 % fat, 
and 13 % protein) diet over the 48-h period 
between the glycogen depletion exercise session 
and the Long HIIT protocol. Muscle (vastus late-
ralis) glycogen in the low-CHO diet, prior to 
Short, was 54.7 % lower ( P  < 0.05) than after 
high-CHO diet. Glycogen utilization during the 
Short HIIT bout did not signiﬁ  cantly differ 
between diet treatments. Glycogen concentra-
tions in the low-CHO treatment prior to Long 
(which afforded an additional day of dietary 
intervention) were not different than before 
Short, but a further increase in high-CHO diet led 
to a 66.5 % difference ( P  < 0.05). During the ﬁ  rst 
3 s of each of the 15 bouts, pedaling frequency 
did not differ between diets, yet the decline in 
frequency seen in the ﬁ  nal 3 s of the last four A.L. Almada and D. Barr

337
bouts was signiﬁ  cantly greater in low CHO 
( P  < 0.05). After Long, the low-CHO treatment 
utilized 117 mmol/kg dw glycogen (a 64.6 % 
decline from pre-Long), while high-CHO 
treat ment consumed 389 mmol/kg dw (a 72 % 
decline from pre-Long). The number of 6-s bouts 
completed during Long under low-CHO diet 
was 111, while high-CHO diet completed 294 
bouts, a 265 % difference. Whole blood (ﬁ  nger-
tip) lactate values at the end of Short and Long 
were not different, irrespective of diet treatment, 
whereas plasma FFA were 64.4 % higher 
( P  < 0.05)  prior   to Long but were similar between 
groups after Long. 
 Using a design modiﬁ  ed from Phinney et al. 
[ 54 ], Lambert [ 55 ] and colleagues enrolled ﬁ  ve 
trained cyclists, who were randomly assigned to 
two diet treatments of 2-week duration, followed 
by a 2-week washout period (ad libitum/“normal” 
diet), and then a crossover to the other diet. The 
high-fat (“FAT”) diet provided 7.1 % CHO, 
67.3 % fat, and 25.5 % protein. The high-CHO 
(“CHO”) diet afforded 73.6 % CHO, 12.0 % fat, 
and 13.5 % protein. Although the diets were iso-
caloric, total caloric intake was not described. 
Exercise tests were performed at the end each 
diet treatment. In a fasted state, subjects per-
formed a series of 5-s tests on a cycle ergometer 
at maximal cadence, with randomly varying 
intensities, to determine maximum pedaling 
velocity and force of contraction. Each subject 
then performed a single 30-s Wingate test on the 
ergometer to assess peak power output. Thirty 
minutes of rest followed the Wingate test and 
then subjects were biopsied (vastus lateralis). 
Glycogen content was 77.1 % greater ( P  < 0.01) 
with CHO diet over FAT, yet no differences were 
seen between groups for any of the performance 
measures. Immediately after the biopsy, the sub-
jects performed a high-intensity cycling bout 
(85 % of peak power output; ≈ 90 % V O2max ) until 
exhaustion, and then another biopsy was 
obtained. Muscle glycogen utilization rates did 
not differ between CHO and FAT, with CHO 
glycogen at  exhaustion   being similar to the pre- 
exercise,  starting   glycogen value for FAT. The 
mean time to exhaustion for CHO (12.5 min) 
was 50.6 % greater than FAT (8.3 min) but was not statistically signiﬁ  cant (likely attributable to 
the small sample size:  n  = 5). It is noteworthy 
that the subjects were described as being nonke-
totic, deﬁ  ned by no differences in plasma 
ß- hydroxybutyrate (BHB) concentrations. 
 In a follow-up study with Lambert and Noakes 
from [ 55 ], Havemann and associates employed a 
6-day high-fat diet (FAT; 68.2 % fat, 16.8 % CHO 
[150 g/day], and 15.0 % protein; 3,560 kcalories/
day), followed by a single day of CHO loading 
(≈90 % of total calorie intake and providing 
8–10 g CHO/kg bm) [ 56 ]. Subjects (eight 
endurance- trained male cyclists) also crossed 
over to a high-CHO diet for 6 days (CHO; 17.1 % 
fat, 67.8 % CHO [602 g/day], and 15.1 % pro-
tein; 3,550 kcalories/day). A 2-week washout 
separated the diet treatments, with subjects ran-
domly assigned in a single-blind manner. All 
meals were provided to the subjects. On the 
eighth day after each diet treatment, subjects per-
formed a 100-km, varying intensity time trial on 
a cycle ergometer, with four, 1-km, high-intensity 
sprints (>90 % of peak power output; W peak ) and 
four, 4-km sprints ( ≈78–84 % W peak ) interspersed 
through the distance. At periodic intervals, sub-
jects ingested a 10 % maltodextrin solution 
(200 ml every 20 min) to maintain plasma glu-
cose concentrations. This type of time trial was 
intended to mimic real-world, road-racing condi-
tions. Mean power output during the 1-km sprints 
was signiﬁ  cantly lower ( P  < 0.05) after FAT, com-
pared to CHO ( ≈55V less), evidenced during the 
ﬁ rst three sprints (the fourth and ﬁ  nal sprint was 
at 99 km,  1 km before ﬁ  nishing the bout  , possibly 
inﬂ uencing motivation for a higher power output, 
which was virtually identical to the CHO diet 
condition). Blood lactate, FFA, and glucose did 
not differ during any time period.  Unfortunately, 
muscle glycogen was not measured  . On days 3 
and/or 5 of the diet, wherein steady-state cycling 
(≈70 % V O2max ) was performed, six of the eight 
subjects during the FAT diet period complained 
of “tired” and “burning” legs and a difﬁ  culty in 
maintaining the training cadence at the deﬁ  ned 
workload, with two subjects unable to complete 
the 60-min session. This is likely reﬂ  ective of the 
high-fat/low-CHO  maladapted   metabolic state of 
the subjects.  14 Carbohydrate Utilization and Disposal in Strength/Power Training and Sports…

338
14.2.5     Manipulation of Muscle 
Glycogen II. Chronic Low- 
Carbohydrate Diet 
 Aggressive and sustained exclusion of carbohy-
drate intake in individuals fosters the genesis of 
ketone bodies (BHB, acetoacetate) in metaboli-
cally signiﬁ  cant quantities. Because of the pro-
tracted intervention period warranted, to achieve 
metabolic  adaptation   during a ketogenic diet 
[ 32 ], these studies are typically designed over 
periods of at least 2–4 weeks of continuous 
diet alteration. Fleming and colleagues within 
Jeff V olek’s laboratory enrolled 20 moderately 
active, noncompetitive athlete males engaged in 
regular endurance and resistance training [ 57 ]. 
An earlier report [ 58 ], not cited in [ 57 ], provides 
more detailed information on the subjects and 
body composition changes in the same study. 
Twelve subjects were randomized to a high-fat/
low-CHO diet (FAT; 61 % fat [157 g/day], 8 % 
CHO [46 g/day], and 15.1 % protein [176 g/
day]; 2,335 kcalories/day [all are mean values]). 
The remaining eight maintained their habitual 
diet (NORM; 26 % fat [56 g/day], 58 % CHO 
[283 g/day], and 16 % protein [80 g/day]; 
1,950 kcalories/day). The FAT diet provided ≈ 
2.2–2.3 g protein/kg/day whereas NORM pro-
vided 0.9 g/kg/day. Serum BHB concentrations 
were signiﬁ  cantly elevated ( P  ≤ 0.05) at weeks 
three and six of FAT, to which the authors 
ascribed dietary compliance with the ketogenic, 
FAT diet. After 6 weeks, FAT diet subjects had 
achieved signiﬁ  cant changes in body composi-
tion ( P  ≤ 0.05) relative to baseline: 1.1-kg lean 
body mass increase and 3.3-kg reduction in fat 
mass. The NORM diet was not associated with 
any alterations in body composition. Despite the 
favorable changes in body composition, several 
high-intensity performance measures were 
impaired after FAT. V O2max  fell signiﬁ  cantly 
(6.6 %;  P  ≤ 0.05) from baseline values, while 
peak and mean power during the ﬁ  rst of two 30-s 
Wingate tests declined by 10.5 % and 20.7 % 
( P  ≤ 0.05), respectively. No signiﬁ  cant perfor-
mance changes were seen after NORM. 
 Compared to road or off-road cycling, cycle 
ergometry  lacks   a propulsion component (sta-tionary state; absence of rolling resistance against 
the contact surface). Following the FAT diet 
intervention, the subjects lost an average of 
2.2 kg body mass, including ostensibly signiﬁ  -
cant ( P  ≤ 0.05) and favorable changes of body 
composition in the legs and trunk (and the afore-
mentioned whole body shifts). After expressing 
peak power in the ﬁ  rst Wingate test as a function 
of the post-diet body weight, the FAT treatment 
still yielded a signiﬁ  cant decrement (8.9 %; 
 P  ≤ 0.05). 
 Several studies have shown that ideal dietary 
protein intakes for athletes range between 1.3 
and 1.8 g/kg (reviewed in [ 59 ]). In light of this, 
one could assert that the NORM diet was inade-
quate in  daily   protein intake (0.9 g/kg) while the 
FAT diet provided a surfeit (2.2–2.3 g/kg) [ 57 , 
 58 ]. Approximately half of the subjects engaged 
in regular RT. The absence of muscle glycogen 
and blood substrate (lactate, FFA, glycerol) mea-
surements, before and during exercise, render 
these ﬁ  ndings challenging to explain beyond a 
chronic, low-carbohydrate/high-fat/high-protein 
diet producing impairments in high-intensity 
exercise performance, juxtaposed to what many 
athletes would consider desirable shifts in body 
composition. 
 In another 2003 study where muscle biopsies 
 were   performed, V ogt et al. randomized 11 male, 
competitive duathletes/triathletes (mean of 5 
years’ experience) into a crossover design with 
two, 5-week dietary intervention periods [ 60 ]. 
The two diets were the following: FAT was com-
prised of 52.9 % fat (192 g/day), 31.4 % CHO 
(246 g/day), and 14.4 % protein (112 g/day), 
3,268 kcalories/day, and CHO was comprised of 
16.5 % fat (53 g/day), 68.2 % CHO (475 g/day), 
and 14.3 % protein (100 g/day), 2,905 kcalories/
day (all are mean values). In random order, the 
subjects were assigned to one diet and then 
switched to the other diet, uniquely  without   a 
washout period. Body weight and composition 
did not change throughout the study. The kcalorie 
intake during FAT was signiﬁ  cantly greater than 
CHO (12.5 %,  P  < 0.05). Pre-diet muscle (vastus 
lateralis) glycogen values did not differ from 
either dietary treatment. The authors commented 
that 4 of the 11 subjects displayed increased A.L. Almada and D. Barr

339
 muscle glycogen during the FAT diet (data not 
described in the paper). The IMTG change after 
FAT was signiﬁ  cantly greater after FAT, com-
pared to CHO (223.1 %;  P  < 0.01). Maximal 
power output during a V O2max  test performed at 
baseline and at the end of each dietary period did 
not differ nor did maximal blood lactate (capil-
lary; collection site not described) concentra-
tions. The absence of an impact of the FAT diet 
on muscle glycogen concentrations (487.8 mmol/
kg dw) is not surprising with an average 
31 %/246 g carbohydrate intake/day, in conjunc-
tion with a 12 % greater energy intake relative to 
CHO, which may explain the lack of performance 
differences between interventions. 
  In toto, these diverse studies that attempted to 
manipulate muscle glycogen concentrations sug-
gest that moderate-intensity exercise may be sus-
tainable under conditions of reduced muscle 
glycogen or moderate reductions in dietary car-
bohydrate. However, near-maximal and supra-
maximal high-intensity exercise performance can 
be compromised, even after acute glycogen load-
ing following CHO restriction. The need for more 
rigorous studies that employ serial primary end-
point measures (muscle glycogen, IMTG, and 
direct substrate utilization, e.g., stable isotopes 
of glucose and palmitate), and the provision of 
adequate protein intakes, is patently clear.     
14.3     Exogenous Substrate 
Provision: Pre- and Intra- 
exercise Carbohydrate 
Supplementation 
 Given that glycolytic ﬂ  ux is augmented by 
strength and power exercise bouts, it is of interest 
to systematically determine the impact of provid-
ing exogenous carbohydrate prior to, and during, 
the performance of these types of exercise. 
Abundant studies have been performed with 
CHO supplementation before and during  endur-
ance   exercise (reviewed in [ 61 ,  62 ]). Although a 
number of pre- and intra-high-intensity exercise 
carbohydrate supplementation studies have been 
undertaken [ 63 – 70 ], with a variety of carbohy-
drate sources and yielding equivocal results, there appears to be only  one  report in which mus-
cle glycogen measurements were performed. 
 In 2000, Haff and his colleagues ([ 45 ]; vide 
supra) evaluated the inﬂ  uence of providing car-
bohydrate to eight resistance-trained males. 
Subjects entered the laboratory in a 3-h fasted 
state, and baseline muscle (vastus lateralis) biop-
sies were obtained. On each of the two testing 
days, a CHO drink (Gatorlode®, Quaker Oats; 
20 % maltodextrin and dextrose) or ﬂ  avor-, 
color-, and  volume  -matched, noncaloric placebo 
(aspartame sweetened) was administered both 
after the isokinetic leg extension/ﬂ  exion session 
and 10 min prior to the commencement of the leg 
RT session (1.0 g CHO/kg bm; mean dose of 
86.0 g CHO). Thereafter, every 10 min during the 
RT bout, subjects ingested 0.3 g CHO/kg bm 
(mean dose of 25.8 g), administered three times 
during the session. The CHO drink signiﬁ  cantly 
reduced glycogen utilization during the RT bout 
relative to placebo (48.0 %;  P  < 0.01). After the 
RT bout, the subjects performed another bout of 
isokinetic exercise (three sets of ten reps, with 
3-min rest between sets). None of the perfor-
mance variables were altered by CHO 
supplementation. 
 It is unfortunate that a dearth of studies exists 
that employ direct measures of muscle substrate 
utilization/disappearance during strength and 
power exercise. As mentioned in Chap. 16, 
 Beyond the Obvious: Future Innovation in Sports 
Nutrition  , of this book (note: also previously 
mentioned above, in this chapter), the ﬁ  nancial, 
ethical, and recruitment challenges associated 
with  muscle biopsies   have proven an enduring 
deterrent to include this pivotal substrate measure 
in studies where fuel selection, utilization, and 
resynthesis are being explored. Thus, the true 
role and impact of pre- and intra-exercise supple-
mentation around high-intensity power and 
strength training remain enigmatic.  
14.4     Conclusion 
 The plasticity of the skeletal muscle to select fuel 
substrate [ 71 ] is an intriguing facet of exercise 
biochemistry across the intensity spectrum. 14 Carbohydrate Utilization and Disposal in Strength/Power Training and Sports…

340
Among healthy individuals, muscle glycogen is 
 always   utilized to a variable yet metabolically sig-
niﬁ cant degree, irrespective of the work intensity. 
This axiom of muscle metabolism is magniﬁ  ed by 
metabolic diseases wherein muscle glycogen is 
biologically unavailable as a substrate, e.g., 
McArdle’s disease and among persons living with 
McArdle that have a modicum of residual myo-
phosphorylase activity. The current enchantment 
with low or reduced carbohydrate diets among 
athletes engaging in high-intensity/intermittent 
training does not appear to align with an evidence 
base and indeed may be misguided. In fact, dietary 
strategies focused upon reduced dietary carbohy-
drate intakes among these exercising/competing 
individuals may indeed  compromise   performance. 
Clearly, more systematic studies with primary 
endpoint measures (muscle glycogen, lipid, and 
direct assessments of whole body substrate oxida-
tion, i.e., stable isotopic measures) are earnestly 
needed to provide enlightened guidance. 
Moreover, the critical question as to the  nutri-
tional state   of subjects in such studies, immedi-
ately prior to performance and substrate 
assessments, remains ignored. Is it prudent and 
relevant that a  carbohydrate-adapted   subject be 
fed a  low-carbohydrate, high-fat  meal before [ 57 ], 
or a high fat/low carb, partially adapted subject be 
given a  carbohydrate  drink [ 56 ] during, the cap-
turing of exercise performance and metabolic 
data? What is the difference in outcome measures 
if adapted subjects have assessments undertaken 
in a  fasted versus fed   (feeding  aligned   with their 
prior diet composition) state? As the pace of sci-
ence continues, it is hoped that emerging, rigor-
ous evidence will displace the rampant evangelism 
that deﬁ  nes this topic.     
  Disclosure   The authors are employees of Vitargo Global 
Sciences, LLC, a company that markets carbohydrate- 
containing supplements.  
   References 
    1.    Brooks GA. Bioenergetics of exercising humans. 
Compr Physiol. 2012;2:537–62.  
    2.    Tarnopolsky MA, Atkinson SA, MacDougall JD, 
Senor BB, Lemon PW, Schwarcz H. Whole-body leucine metabolism during and after resistance exer-
cise in fed humans. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1991;
23:326–33.  
    3.    Moore DR, Del Bel NC, Nizi KI, Hartman JW, Tang 
JE, Armstrong D, et al. Resistance training reduces 
fasted- and fed-state leucine turnover and increases 
dietary nitrogen retention in previously untrained 
young men. J Nutr. 1997;137:985–91.  
    4.    Tessari P, Garibotto G, Inchiostro S, Robaudo C, 
Safﬁ oti S, Vettore M, et al. Kidney, splanchnic, and 
leg protein turnover in humans. J Clin Invest. 
1996;98:1481–92.  
    5.    Hultman E, Greenhaff PL, Ren JM, Söderlund K. 
Energy metabolism and fatigue during intense muscle 
contraction. Biochem Soc Trans. 1991;19:347–53.  
    6.    Gaitanos GC, Williams C, Boobis LH, Brooks 
S. Human muscle metabolism during intermittent 
maximal exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1993;75:712–9.  
    7.    Sahlin K, Tonkonogi M, Söderlund K. Energy supply 
and muscle fatigue in humans. Acta Physiol Scand. 
1998;162:261–6.  
    8.    Delanghe J, De Slypere JP, De Buyzere M, Robbrecht 
J, Wieme R, Vermeulen A. Normal reference values 
for creatine, creatinine, and carnitine are lower in veg-
etarians. Clin Chem. 1989;35:1802–3.  
   9.    Watt KK, Garnham AP, Snow RJ. Skeletal muscle 
total creatine content and creatine transporter gene 
expression in vegetarians prior to and following cre-
atine supplementation. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2004;14:517–31.  
    10.    Burke DG, Chilibeck PD, Parise G, Candow DG, 
Mahoney D, Tarnopolsky M. Effect of creatine and 
weight training on muscle creatine and performance 
in vegetarians. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2003;35:
1946–55.  
    11.    Nabuurs CI, Choe CU, Veltien A, Kan HE, van Loon 
LJC, Rodenburg RJT, et al. Disturbed energy metabo-
lism and muscular dystrophy caused by pure creatine 
deﬁ ciency are reversible by creatine intake. J Physiol. 
2013;591:571–92.  
    12.    Choe CU, Atzler D, Wild PS, Carter AM, Böger RH, 
Ojeda F, et al. Homoarginine levels are regulated by 
L-arginine:glycine amidinotransferase and affect 
stroke outcome: results from human and murine stud-
ies. Circulation. 2013;128:1451–61.  
    13.    Wallimann T, Wyss M, Brdiczka D, Nicolay K, 
Eppenberger HM. Intracellular compartmentation, 
structure and function of creatine kinase isoenzymes 
in tissues with high and ﬂ  uctuating energy demands: 
the ‘phosphocreatine circuit’ for cellular energy 
homeostasis. Biochem J. 1992;281:21–40.  
   14.    Harris R, Söderlund K, Hultman E. Elevation of 
creatine in resting and exercised muscle of normal 
subjects by creatine supplementation. Clin Sci. 
1992;83:367–74.  
   15.    Sahlin K, Harris RC. The creatine kinase reaction: a 
simple reaction with functional complexity. Amino 
Acids. 2011;405:1363–7.  
   16.    Wyss M, Kaddurah-Daouk R. Creatine and creatinine 
metabolism. Physiol Rev. 2000;80:1107–213.  A.L. Almada and D. Barr

341
    17.    Maughan RJ, Greenhaff PL, Hespel P. Dietary supple-
ments for athletes: emerging trends and recurring 
themes. J Sports Sci. 2011;29(Suppl1):S57–66.  
    18.    Hermansen L, Hultman E, Saltin B. Muscle glycogen 
during prolonged severe exercise. Acta Physiol Scand. 
1967;71:129–39.  
    19.    Tesch PA, Colliander EB, Kaiser P. Muscle metabo-
lism during intense, heavy-resistance exercise. Eur J 
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1986;55:362–6.  
     20.    McArdle B. Myopathy due to a defect in muscle gly-
cogen breakdown. Clin Sci. 1951;10:13–33.  
    21.    Beynon RJ, Bartram C, Hopkins P, Toescu V , Gibson 
H, Phoenix J, et al. McArdle’s disease: molecular 
genetics and metabolic consequences of the pheno-
type. Muscle Nerve. 1995;3:S18–22.  
   22.    Nielsen JN, Vissing J, Wojtaszewski JFP, Haller RG, 
Begum N, Richter EA. Decreased insulin action in 
skeletal muscle from patients with McArdle’s disease. 
Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2002;282:
E1267–75.  
        23.    Vissing J, Duno M, Schwartz M, Haller RG. Splice 
mutations preserve myophosphorylase activity that 
ameliorates the phenotype in McArdle disease. Brain. 
2009;132:1545–52.  
      24.    Pearson CM, Rimer DG, Mommaerts WF. A meta-
bolic myopathy due to absence of muscle phosphory-
lase. Am J Med. 1961;30:502–17.  
    25.    Kitaoka Y , Ogborn DI, Mocellin NJ, Schlattner U, 
Tarnopolsky M. Monocarboxylate transporters and 
mitochondrial creatine kinase protein content in 
McArdle disease. Mol Genet Metab. 2013;108:
259–62.  
    26.    Kushner RF, Berman SA. Are high-protein diets 
effective in McArdle’s disease? Arch Neurol. 
1990;47:383–4.  
    27.    MacLean D, Vissing J, Vissing SF, Haller RG. Oral 
branched-chain amino acids do not improve exercise 
capacity in McArdle disease. Neurology. 1998;51:
1456–9.  
    28.    Andersen ST, Vissing J. Carbohydrate- and protein- 
rich diets in McArdle disease: effects on exercise 
capacity. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2008;79:
1359–63.  
    29.    Andersen ST, Jeppesen TD, Taivassalo T, Sveen ML, 
Heinicke K, Haller RG, et al. Effect of changes in fat 
availability on exercise capacity in McArdle disease. 
Arch Neurol. 2009;66:762–6.  
    30.    Ørngreen MC, Jeppesen TD, Tvede Andersen S, 
Taivassalo T, Hauerslev S, Preisler N, et al. Fat metab-
olism during exercise in patients with McArdle dis-
ease. Neurology. 2009;72:718–24.  
     31.    Haller RG, Vissing J. Spontaneous “second wind” and 
glucose-induced second “second wind” in McArdle 
disease: oxidative mechanisms. Arch Neurol. 2002;59:
1395–402.  
     32.    Phinney SD. Ketogenic diets and physical perfor-
mance. Nutr Metab. 2004;1:2.  
    33.    Quinlivan R, Martinuzzi A, Schoser B. Pharma-
cological and nutritional treatment for McArdle disease (Glycogen Storage Disease type V). Cochrane 
Database Syst Rev. 2010;12, CD003458.  
    34.    Vezina JW, Der Ananian CA, Campbell KD, Meckes 
N, Ainsworth BE. An examination of the differences 
between two methods of estimating energy expendi-
ture in resistance training activities. J Strength Cond 
Res. 2014;28:1026–31.  
     35.    Tesch PA, Colliander EB, Kaiser P. Muscle metabo-
lism during intense, heavy-resistance exercise. Eur J 
Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1986;55:262–6.  
    36.    Essén-Gustavsson B, Tesch PA. Glycogen and triglyc-
eride utilization in relation to muscle metabolic char-
acteristics in men performing heavy-resistance 
exercise. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1990;
61:5–10.  
    37.    Creer A, Gallagher P, Slivka D, Jemiolo B, Fink W, 
Trappe S. Inﬂ  uence of muscle glycogen availability 
on ERK1/2 and Akt signaling after resistance exercise 
in human skeletal muscle. J Appl Physiol. 2005;99:
950–6.  
    38.    Koopman R, Manders RJ, Jonkers RA, Hul GB, 
Kuipers H, van Loon LJ. Intramyocellular lipid and 
glycogen content are reduced following resistance 
exercise in untrained healthy males. Eur J Appl 
Physiol. 2006;96:525–34.  
    39.    Harber MP, Crane JD, Douglass MD, Weindel KD, 
Trappe TA, Trappe SW, et al. Resistance exercise 
reduces muscular substrates in women. Int J Sports 
Med. 2008;29:719–25.  
    40.    Shepherd SO, Cocks M, Tipton KD, Witard OC, 
Ranasinghe AM, Barker TA, et al. Resistance training 
increases skeletal muscle oxidative capacity and net 
intramuscular triglyceride breakdown in type I and II 
ﬁ bres of sedentary males. Exp Physiol. 2014;99:
894–908.  
    41.    Stellingwerff T, Boon H, Jonkers RA, Senden JM, 
Spriet LL, Koopman R, et al. Signiﬁ  cant intramyocel-
lular lipid use during prolonged cycling in endurance- 
trained males as assessed by three different 
methodologies. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 
2007;292:E1715–23.  
    42.    Robergs RA, Pearson DR, Costill DL, Fink WJ, 
Pascoe DD, Benedict MA, et al. Muscle glycogenoly-
sis during differing intensities of weight-resistance 
exercise. J Appl Physiol. 1991;70:1700–6.  
    43.    MacDougall JD, Ray S, McCartney N, Sale D, Lee P, 
Garner S. Substrate utilization during weightlifting. 
Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1988;20:S66.  
    44.    MacDougall JD, Ray S, Sale DG, McCartney N, Lee 
P, Garner S. Muscle substrate utilization and lactate 
production. Can J Appl Physiol. 1999;24:209–15.  
     45.    Haff GG, Koch AJ, Potteiger JA, Kuphal KE, Magee 
LM, Green SB, et al. Carbohydrate supplementation 
attenuates muscle glycogen loss during acute bouts of 
resistance exercise. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2000;10:326–39.  
    46.    Churchley EG, Coffey VG, Pedersen DJ, Shield A, 
Carey KA, Cameron-Smith D, et al. Inﬂ  uence of pre-
exercise muscle glycogen content on transcriptional 14 Carbohydrate Utilization and Disposal in Strength/Power Training and Sports…

342
activity of metabolic and myogenic genes in well- 
trained humans. J Appl Physiol. 2007;102:1604–11.  
    47.    Lakomy HKA. The use of a non-motorised treadmill 
for analyzing sprint performance. Ergonomics. 1987;
3:627–37.  
    48.    Gollnick PD, Armstrong RB, Sembrowich WL, 
Shepherd RE, Saltin B. Glycogen depletion pattern in 
human skeletal muscle ﬁ  bers after heavy exercise. 
J Appl Physiol. 1973;34:615–8.  
    49.    MacDougall JD, Ward GR, Sutton JR. Muscle glyco-
gen repletion after high-intensity intermittent exer-
cise. J Appl Physiol. 1977;42:129–32.  
    50.    McCartney N, Spriet LL, Heigenhauser GJ, 
Kowalchuk JM, Sutton JR, Jones NL. Muscle power 
and metabolism in maximal intermittent exercise. 
J Appl Physiol. 1986;60:1164–9.  
    51.    Parolin ML, Chesley A, Matsos MP, Spriet LL, Jones 
NL, Heigenhauser GJF. Regulation of skeletal muscle 
glycogen phosphorylase and PDH during maximal 
intermittent exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 
1999;277:E890–900.  
    52.    Symons JD, Jacobs I. High-intensity exercise perfor-
mance is not impaired by low intramuscular glyco-
gen. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1989;21:550–7.  
    53.    Balsom PD, Gaitanos GC, Soderlund K, Ekblom 
B. High-intensity exercise and muscle glycogen avail-
ability in humans. Acta Physiol Scand. 1999;165:
337–45.  
    54.    Phinney SD, Bistrian BR, Evans WJ, Gervino E, 
Blackburn GL. The human metabolic response to 
chronic ketosis without caloric restriction: preservation 
of submaximal exercise capability with reduced carbo-
hydrate oxidation. Metabolism. 1983;32:769–76.  
     55.    Lambert EV , Speechly DP, Dennis SC, Noakes 
TD. Enhanced endurance in trained cyclists during 
moderate intensity exercise following 2 weeks adap-
tation to a high fat diet. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup 
Physiol. 1994;69:287–93.  
     56.    Havemann L, West SJ, Goedecke JH, Macdonald IA, 
St Clair Gibson A, Noakes TD, et al. Fat adaptation 
followed by carbohydrate loading compromised high- 
intensity sprint performance. J Appl Physiol. 2006;
100:194–202.  
       57.    Fleming J, Sharman MJ, Avery NG, Love DM, 
Gomez AL, Scheett TP, et al. Endurance capacity and 
high-intensity exercise performance responses to a 
high fat diet. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 
2003;13:466–78.  
     58.    V olek JS, Sharman MJ, Love DM, Avery NG, Gomez 
AL, Scheett TP, et al. Body composition and hor-
monal responses to a carbohydrate-restricted diet. 
Metabolism. 2002;51:864–70.  
    59.    Phillips SM, van Loon LJ. Dietary protein for ath-
letes: from requirements to optimum adaptation. 
J Sports Sci. 2011;29 Suppl 1:S29–38.      60.    V ogt M, Puntschart A, Howald H, Mueller B, 
Mannhart C, Gfeller-Tuescher L, et al. Effects of 
dietary fat on muscle substrates, metabolism, and per-
formance in athletes. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
2003;35:952–60.  
    61.    Karelis AD, Smith JW, Passe DH, Peronnet F. 
Carbohydrate administration and exercise perfor-
mance: what are the potential mechanisms involved? 
Sports Med. 2010;40:747–63.  
    62.    Jeukendrup A. A step towards personalized sports 
nutrition: carbohydrate intake during exercise. Sports 
Med. 2014;44 Suppl 1:S25–33.  
    63.    Lambert CP, Flynn MG, Boone JB, Michaud TJ, 
Rodriguez-Zayas J. Effects of carbohydrate feeding 
on multiple-bout resistance exercise. J Appl Sport Sci 
Res. 1991;5:192–7.  
   64.    Anantaraman R, Carmines AA, Gaesser GA, Weltman 
A. Effects of carbohydrate supplementation on per-
formance during 1 hour of high-intensity exercise. Int 
J Sports Med. 1995;16:461–5.  
   65.    Haff GG, Stone MH, Warren BJ, Keith R, Johnson 
RL, Nieman DC, et al. The effect of carbohydrate 
supplementation on multiple sessions and bouts of 
resistance exercise. J Strength Cond Res. 1999;13:
111–7.  
   66.    Haff GG, Schroeder CA, Koch AJ, Kuphal KE, 
Comeau MJ, Potteiger JA. The effects of supplemen-
tal carbohydrate ingestion on intermittent isokinetic 
leg exercise. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 2001;41:
216–22.  
   67.    Kulik JR, Touchberry CD, Kawamori N, Blumert PA, 
Crum AJ, Haff GG. Supplemental carbohydrate 
ingestion does not improve performance of high- 
intensity resistance exercise. J Strength Cond Res. 
2008;22:1101–7.  
   68.    Wax B, Brown SP, Webb HE, Kavazis AN. Effects of 
carbohydrate supplementation on force output and 
time to exhaustion during static leg contractions 
superimposed with electromyostimulation. J Strength 
Cond Res. 2012;26:1717–23.  
   69.    Sousa M, Simões HG, Castro CC, Otaduy MC, 
Negrão CE, Pereira RM, et al. Carbohydrate supple-
mentation increases intramyocellular lipid stores in 
elite runners. Metabolism. 2012;61:1189–96.  
    70.    Wax B, Kavazis AN, Brown SP. Effects of supple-
mental carbohydrate ingestion during superimposed 
electromyostimulation exercise in elite weightlifters. 
J Strength Cond Res. 2013;27:3084–90.  
    71.    Yoshida Y , Jain SS, McFarlan JT, Snook LA, 
Chabowski A, Bonen A. Exercise- and training- 
induced upregulation of skeletal muscle fatty acid 
oxidation are not solely dependent on mitochondrial 
machinery and biogenesis. J Physiol. 2013;591:
4415–26.      A.L. Almada and D. Barr

343 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_15      Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes 
           Anupam     Ohri      ,     Stephen     H. Schneider     , 
    Stephanie     Wilson      , and     Gabe     Wilson    
    Abstract  
  Physical activity has long been considered to be beneﬁ  cial to individu-
als with all forms of diabetes mellitus. Regular exercise improves glu-
cose control and a variety of metabolic risk factors associated with the 
disease. In addition, exercise may decrease the risk for developing dia-
betes in individuals at risk. Most of the beneﬁ  ts of physical activity are 
related to improved insulin sensitivity and glucose uptake resulting in 
changes in body weight and composition. Athletes with diabetes melli-
tus need education and guidance regarding concerns with athletic activ-
ity in patients with diabetes including hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia 
in an attempt to maintain their overall health status. In addition the 
effects of exercise are often altered by many of the medications in com-
mon use in this population. With appropriate prescreening for relevant 
complications and proper understanding of diet and drug interactions, 
most athletes with diabetes mellitus can enjoy the beneﬁ  ts of physical 
activity safely.  
  Keywords  
  Diabetes mellitus   •   Hypoglycemia   •   Hyperglycemia   •   Neuropathy   •   Insulin   
•   Glycemic load  
15.1         Chapter Introduction 
    Diabetes mellitus can be found in over 20 million 
individuals in the United States. At least twice 
those numbers have various forms of “pre”-dia-
betes. Both overt diabetes and milder forms of 
glucose intolerance are major predisposing 
factors for premature coronary artery disease. 
Also diabetes is the major cause of blindness and         A.   Ohri ,  MD      ( *) •    S.H.   Schneider ,  MD    
  Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital , 
  Clinical Academic Building, 125 Paterson Street, 
Suite 5100A ,  New Brunswick ,  NJ   08901 ,  USA   
 e-mail: ohrianu@yahoo.com    
    S.   Wilson ,  MS, RD, LD      •    G.   Wilson ,  PhD    
  IMG Academy ,   5500 34th Street West ,  Bradenton , 
 FL   34210 ,  USA   
 e-mail: stephanie.wilson@img.com    15

344
is the number one cause of renal failure and 
nontraumatic limb amputation. 
 Two major types of diabetes mellitus have 
been recognized [ 1 ]. The most prevalent form of 
the disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, accounts for 
almost 90 % of cases and results from a combina-
tion of resistance to the effects of insulin and a 
progressive decrease in the function of the beta 
cells of the pancreas which produce that hor-
mone. Insulin resistance, a hyperinsulinemic 
state, along with subtle abnormalities of beta cell 
function can precede the onset of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus by many decades. These individuals are 
at high risk for premature coronary artery disease 
associated with the cluster of cardiovascular risk 
factors including dyslipidemia, impaired ﬁ  brino-
lytic activity, and hypertension, which has been 
given the name of “metabolic syndrome.” 
 Type 1 diabetes mellitus, which tends to 
occur more often but not exclusively in children, 
is the result of progressive immunologic destruc-
tion of the beta cells that results in absolute 
insulin deﬁ  ciency. There are a number of other 
subtypes of diabetes mellitus. One of the 
increasing importance tends to occur in young 
teenagers, mostly in Black and Hispanic ethnic 
groups, and consists of a relatively acute onset 
of severe insulin deﬁ  ciency in morbidly obese 
individuals. While the etiology of this form of 
diabetes is unclear, it is not associated with an 
autoimmune response. 
 The therapeutic value of regular exercise in 
patients with diabetes has been recognized since 
at least the eighteenth century [ 2 ]. Exercise, diet, 
and medication represent the three cardinal ele-
ments in the management of the disease [ 3 – 5 ]. 
Exercise not only improves insulin sensitivity 
and blood glucose control, but it diminishes the 
cluster of cardiovascular risk factors that occur in 
patients with even milder forms of glucose intol-
erance [ 6 ]. Physically active patients with diabe tes 
may have to deal with long-term complications 
that require assessments, preparations, and 
restraints that may not apply to the general popu-
lation. In addition, they often ﬁ  nd themselves 
requiring medications which may complicate 
their ability to exercise safely. In addition to the 
use of exercise in the therapy of overt diabetes, the large and growing population of individuals 
with metabolic syndrome needs to be enabled to 
safely participate in recreational and competitive 
athletic activities.  
15.2     Exercise Capacity 
in Individuals with Diabetes 
 Individuals with uncomplicated type 1 diabetes 
mellitus appear to have a normal capacity for 
exercise and physical training. The situation in 
type 2 diabetes mellitus is more complicated. 
Studies suggest a small decrease in maximal aer-
obic exercise capacity in not only individuals 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus but also in those at 
high risk for the disease, even when controlled 
for physical activity. In addition, patients with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus tend to have a higher 
ratio of type II to type I muscle ﬁ  bers and a lower 
muscle density of capillaries and mitochondria. 
Despite these ﬁ  ndings, individuals with type 2 
diabetes mellitus do display signiﬁ  cant training 
effects with aerobic exercise.  
15.3     Effects of Exercise 
on Glycemic Control 
 Regular exercise has been shown to reduce the 
insulin resistance in patients with prediabetes and 
type 2 diabetes mellitus [ 7 ]. Mechanisms include 
an increase in capillary and mitochondrial den-
sity [ 8 ], activation of glucose transport by glyco-
gen depletion, activation of AMP kinase, and 
depletion of intracellular lipid metabolites which 
are known to contribute to insulin resistance in 
the liver and muscle [ 9 ]. The most important of 
these effects appears to be related to the summed 
subacute effects of individual exercise bouts, 
which may persist for as long as 48–72 h. Physical 
training and improvements in insulin sensitivity 
in patients predisposed to type 2 diabetes melli-
tus have been shown to delay progression to overt 
disease in a number of populations including 
individuals with the metabolic syndrome and 
women with a history of gestational diabetes and 
polycystic ovarian syndrome. A. Ohri et al.

345
 In individuals with overt type 2 diabetes 
mellitus, studies have conﬁ  rmed that regular 
exercise results in improved metabolic control 
[ 10 ]. Most of these studies have utilized largely 
aerobic exercise programs, but recent studies 
suggest the addition of a component of high-vol-
ume resistance exercise may potentiate the bene-
ﬁ cial metabolic effects [ 11 ,  12 ]. Exercise 
intensities and durations adequate to cause sig-
niﬁ cant depletion of intracellular glycogen and 
perhaps free fatty acid intermediates appear to be 
necessary for substantial subacute effects. Bouts 
with duration of at least 30 min at 50 % or more of 
an individual’s maximal aerobic exercise capacity 
are recommended. In addition, frequency of exer-
cise appears to be a key factor requiring a mini-
mum of 3 or 4 exercise sessions per week. Studies 
utilizing the same total workload per week with 
greater intensity and less frequency have yielded 
lesser improvements in metabolic control. 
Typically, an improvement of 0.5 % or greater in 
levels of hemoglobin A-1-C can be anticipated. 
The improvements tend to be greatest in individ-
uals with mild type 2 diabetes mellitus who still 
retain signiﬁ  cant capacity to secrete insulin. It 
has been more difﬁ  cult to demonstrate improve-
ment in HGBA1C in individuals with type 1 
although associated cardiovascular risk factors 
may be beneﬁ  cially affected [ 13 ]. This is largely 
a result of a major confounding factor, the hypo-
glycemic effects of exercise bouts.  
15.4     Regulation of Glucose Levels 
During Exercise 
 A number of redundant systems exist in the body 
to protect against the development of hypoglyce-
mia [ 14 ]. As glucose levels begin to fall, alpha- 
adrenergic input to the pancreas decreases insulin 
secretion. A further drop in glucose results in a 
release of glucagon, enhancing hepatic glucose 
output. Finally, if glucose levels continued to fall, 
the release of epinephrine results in further 
enhancement of glucose production by the liver 
and an increase in the availability of free fatty 
acids to the peripheral muscle which limits the 
rate of glucose utilization.  Patients with uncomplicated mild type 2 diabe-
tes mellitus rarely have problems with hypoglyce-
mia during physical activity. Individuals with type 
1 diabetes mellitus as well as those individuals 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have developed 
signiﬁ  cant insulin deﬁ  ciency often ﬁ  nd that the 
risks of hypoglycemia limit their ability to partici-
pate in physical activity. When insulin is injected 
in a subcutaneous depot, the body has no capacity 
to downregulate insulin levels during exercise. In 
addition, the majority of patients with type 1 dia-
betes mellitus that have had their disease for more 
than 5 years develop glucagon deﬁ  ciency. Finally, 
long-standing diabetes may result in autonomic 
dysfunction and inability to produce catechol-
amines. It should be noted that the usual warning 
symptoms of hypoglycemia are often not appreci-
ated during physical activity as the adrenergic 
activation of both hypoglycemia and exercise 
causes symptoms that overlap. The frequent 
occurrence of difﬁ  cult to predict hypoglycemic 
episodes often results in the need to decrease 
insulin doses and increase carbohydrate intake in 
a way that negates otherwise beneﬁ  cial effects on 
glucose control [ 15 – 17 ]. 
 In addition to hypoglycemia occurring at the 
end of an exercise bout, many individuals are pre-
disposed to a second wave of sometimes very sig-
niﬁ cant hypoglycemic episodes occurring 6–10 h 
after intense physical activity as a result of the 
subsequent improvement in insulin sensiti vity. 
For those who exercise late in the day, these epi-
sodes often occur during sleep and may be particu-
larly dangerous. Some general recommendations 
for avoiding exercise-related hypoglycemia follow 
that may provide useful starting points:
    1.    The most common way of avoiding hypogly-
cemia is the consumption of additional readily 
absorbable carbohydrate. In general 15–30 g 
carbohydrate can be consumed at the initia-
tion of exercise and every 30 min during mod-
erately intense physical activity. Consumption 
of much larger amounts of carbohydrate or 
use of hyperosmolar solutions may actually 
result in delayed gastric emptying with gastric 
distention, which may impair high-level 
physical activity.   15 Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes

346
   2.    For those individuals who exercise in the 
evening and suffer from delayed hypoglyce-
mia at night, snacks of slowly absorbed carbo-
hydrate and protein at bedtime may be helpful 
in preventing these episodes. For some indi-
viduals, a snack in conjunction with a sucrose 
inhibitor, such as acarbose, may be helpful.   
   3.    Timing of exercise to follow a meal may result 
in both a lower incidence of hypoglycemia 
and a blunting of post-meal glucose excur-
sions. On the other hand, the additional strain 
on the cardiovascular system in individuals at 
high risk for coronary artery disease limits 
this approach.     
15.4.1      For Athletes Who Require 
Insulin Therapy 
        1.    Avoid injecting short- or rapid-acting insulin 
immediately over an area of exercising muscle 
as this may enhance the rate of insulin absorp-
tion and result in hypoglycemia (e.g., avoid 
injection into the thigh if bicycling).   
   2.    Consider reducing the dose of insulin in 
anticipation of exercise. Such reductions 
need to be worked out on a highly individual-
ized basis. The effects of exercise may vary 
depending on time of day, recent food intake, 
ambient temperature, and state of hydration. 
In general, a dose reduction of 30–50 % of 
the insulin acting during the time of the exer-
cise and up to several hours postexercise may 
be appropriate for activity of greater than 
30 min.   
   3.    For patients on basal-bolus insulin therapy, a 
reduction in the rapid- or short-acting insulin 
injected prior to exercise by as much as 50 % 
may be necessary. For example, exercise 
occurring 1–2 h after a meal may require a 
reduction in mealtime insulin. The use of 
newer rapid-acting insulin has been helpful in 
avoiding periods of relative hyperinsulinemia 
between meals; therefore, it may not be neces-
sary to reduce the dose of rapid-acting insulin 
given with the meal if exercise occurs more than 2 h after eating. However, a reduction in 
basal insulin may be required.   
   4.    For individuals on insulin pump therapy, the 
basal rate can be decreased by 20–50 % start-
ing 1–2 h prior to exercise. This reduction in 
basal rate may be needed for one or more hours 
following the cessation of the exercise. This 
temporary reduction in basal insulin is best 
accomplished using the insulin pump’s tempo-
rary basal rate feature. For individuals exercis-
ing intensely, it may be necessary to suspend 
or disconnect the insulin pump at the begin-
ning of exercise, but this should never be done 
for more than 60 min in individuals with type I 
diabetes in order to avoid ketoacidosis.   
   5.    It may also be necessary to decrease subse-
quent overnight basal rates on days of moder-
ate to intense exercise; however, the degree of 
reduction needs to be worked out on an indi-
vidual basis and will vary based upon the 
duration of the exercise and how late in the 
day the exercise occurs.   
   6.    If hypoglycemia does occur, it should be 
treated by consumption of 15–30 g of readily 
absorbable carbohydrate. Blood glucose level 
should be monitored every 15–20 min accom-
panied by ingestion of 15 g of rapidly digested 
carbohydrate until the blood glucose stabi-
lizes above 70–100 mg/dL.   
   7.    For athletes who ﬁ  nd themselves in a position 
where carbohydrate is not immediately avail-
able, a 10 s intense sprint has been shown to 
result in an acute transient increase in glucose 
levels to allow time for more deﬁ  nitive treat-
ment [ 18 ].   
   8.    Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) during 
physical exercise may be highly useful in 
selected patients with insulin-treated diabetes. 
Recent studies to assess the accuracy of CGM 
[ 19 – 21 ] conﬁ  rm that decreases in glucose dur-
ing intensive effort can be tracked by a subcuta-
neous sensor. Available data suggested that 
CGM tends to overestimate glucose levels dur-
ing exercise compared with blood glucose con-
centrations, especially when glucose is falling 
rapidly to low levels. From a practical point of 
view, athletes can consider the information on A. Ohri et al.

347
glucose trends provided by the sensing system 
as useful but should view the absolute value of 
the displayed glucose level with some caution.       
15.5     Hyperglycemia and Exercise 
 In contrast to unanticipated hypoglycemia, some 
patients will ﬁ  nd themselves dealing with unan-
ticipated hyperglycemia after their workouts and 
the following recommendations provide helpful 
approaches to avoid such occurrences:
    1.    Individuals who exercise at near-maximal 
exertion often experience a transient rise in 
plasma glucose levels. This results from the 
rapid release of glucose from the liver second-
ary to glycogenolysis with a minimal increase 
in peripheral glucose utilization. Treatment of 
this transient and self-limited hyperglycemia 
with insulin should be avoided.   
   2.    A more difﬁ  cult problem is the increase of 
plasma glucose and occasionally ketones dur-
ing brisk exercise in patients with severe insu-
lin deﬁ  ciency and very poor metabolic control. 
Here unrestrained hepatic glucose and ketone 
production outstrips peripheral utilization. 
Competing in a hyperglycemic state places 
the athlete at risk for dehydration, reduced 
athletic performance, and possible ketosis. 
Such situations are often identiﬁ  ed by fasting 
plasma glucose >300 mg/dl. Such patients 
should ﬁ  rst be adequately insulinized and 
hydrated prior to exercise. In addition, athletes 
should check their fasting blood glucose prior 
to exercise to stimulate the recommended 
insulin levels.   
   3.    If the clients  fasting      blood glucose is >250 mg/
dl and ketones are present in the urine and/or 
blood, exercise is contraindicated. If the  fasting   
blood glucose value is >300 mg/dl and ketones 
are not present, exercise should be done with 
caution after rehydration, and blood glucose 
levels should be monitored. The underlying 
reason for the hyperglycemia should be iden-
tiﬁ ed and treated before sustained athletic 
activity [ 22 ] .       15.6     Evaluation of Athletes 
Before Exercise 
 Before beginning an exercise program, the indi-
vidual with diabetes mellitus should undergo a 
detailed medical evaluation with appropriate 
diagnostic studies [ 23 ]. This examination should 
carefully screen for the presence of macro- and 
microvascular complications which may be 
worsened by the exercise program. Identiﬁ  cation 
of areas of concern will allow the design of an 
individualized exercise prescription which can 
minimize risk to the patient. 
15.6.1      Cardiovascular Disease 
 Myocardial infarction is the leading cause of 
death in the United States. Although usually 
accompanied by typical symptoms, myocardial 
ischemia in patients with long-standing diabetes 
mellitus is often asymptomatic or associated with 
atypical symptoms. Some studies have shown 
that 50 % of ischemic episodes are not recog-
nized in this population [ 24 ]. 
 A graded exercise test may be helpful if a 
patient, about to embark on a moderate- to high- 
intensity exercise program (maximal heart rate 
>55 %), is at high risk for underlying cardiovas-
cular disease, based on one of the following 
criteria [ 25 ]:
 –    Age >35 years with type 1 diabetes mellitus.  
 –   Type 2 diabetes mellitus of >10-year duration.  
 –   Type 1 diabetes mellitus of >15-year duration.  
 –   The presence of multiple additional risk fac tors 
for coronary artery disease.  
 –   Level of activity planned is greater than rou tine 
daily activities.  
 –   The presence of microvascular disease 
(retinopathy or nephropathy, including 
microalbuminuria).  
 –   Peripheral vascular disease.  
 –   Autonomic neuropathy.    
 In some patients who exhibit nonspeciﬁ  c elec-
trocardiographic changes in response to exercise 15 Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes

348
or who have nonspeciﬁ  c ST and T wave changes 
on the resting EKG, alternative tests such as radio-
nuclide stress testing may be performed. Patients 
with known coronary artery disease should 
undergo a supervised evaluation of the ischemic 
response to exercise, ischemic threshold, and the 
propensity to arrhythmia during exercise. In many 
cases, left ventricular systolic function at rest and 
during its response to exercise should be assessed. 
In patients with diabetes planning to participate in 
low-intensity forms of exercise (<60 % of maxi-
mal heart rate) such as walking, the physician 
should use clinical judgment in deciding whether 
to recommend an exercise stress test.  
15.6.2      Peripheral Neuropathy 
 Peripheral neuropathy (PN) may result in the loss 
of protective sensation in the feet. Signiﬁ  cant PN 
is an indication to limit weight-bearing exercise. 
Repetitive exercise on insensitive feet can ulti-
mately lead to ulceration and fractures [ 26 ]. 
Evaluation of PN can be made by checking the 
deep tendon reﬂ  exes, vibratory sense, and posi-
tion sense. The inability to detect sensation using 
the 5.07 (10 g) monoﬁ  lament is indicative of the 
loss of protective sensation. Athletes with neu-
ropathy need to pay special attention to adequate 
footwear and may sometimes require orthotics. 
The use of silica gel or air midsoles as well as 
polyester or blend (cotton polyester) socks to pre-
vent blisters and keeping the feet dry is important 
for minimizing trauma to the feet. Careful inspec-
tion of the feel on a daily basis is important. 
Individuals must be taught to monitor closely for 
blisters and other potential damages to their feet. 
A diabetes identiﬁ  cation bracelet or shoe tag 
should be clearly visible when exercising. 
 If the neuropathy is severe or is associated 
with a loss of proprioception or if it occurs in the 
presence of peripheral vascular disease, certain 
activities like long-distance running should be 
discouraged. Table  15.1  was created by the 
authors of this chapter that lists contraindicated 
and recommended exercises for patients with loss 
of protective sensation in the feet.15.6.3         Autonomic Neuropathy 
 The presence of autonomic neuropathy may 
limit an individual’s exercise capacity and 
increase the risk of an adverse cardiovascular 
event during or after exercise. Cardiac auto-
nomic neuropathy (CAN) may be indicated by 
resting tachycardia (>100 beats per minute), 
orthostasis (lowering of systolic blood pressure 
>20 mmHg upon standing), or other distur-
bances in autonomic nervous system function 
involving the skin, pupils, or gastrointestinal or 
genitourinary systems. Sudden death and silent 
myocardial ischemia have been attributed to 
CAN in diabetes [ 27 ]. Resting or stress thallium 
myocardial scintigraphy is an appropriate non-
invasive test for the presence and extent of mac-
rovascular coronary artery disease in these 
individuals. Hypotension and hypertension after 
vigorous exercise are more likely to develop in 
patients with autonomic neuropathy, particularly 
when starting an exercise program. Because these 
individuals may have difﬁ  culty with thermoregu-
lation, they sho uld be advised to avoid exercise 
in hot or cold environments and to be vigilant 
about adequate hydration. Adequate hydration 
prior to exercise is recommended (e.g., 17 oz of 
ﬂ uid consumed 2 h before exercise). During 
exercise ﬂ  uids should be taken early and fre-
quently in an amount sufﬁ  cient to compensate 
for losses in sweat. The reader is referred to 
Chap.   6     of this textbook for speciﬁ  c detailed sci-
entiﬁ c base research regarding adequate hydra-
tion recommendations.     Table 15.1    Exercises for diabetic patients with loss of 
protective sensation   
 Contraindicated exercise  Recommended exercise 
 Swimming 
 Treadmill  Bicycling 
 Prolonged walking  Rowing 
 Jogging  Chair exercises 
 Step exercises  Arm exercises 
 Other non-weight-
bearing exercises A. Ohri et al.

349
15.6.4      Peripheral Arterial Disease 
 Evaluation of PAD is based on signs and symp-
toms, including intermittent claudication, cold 
feet, decreased or absent pulses, atrophy of sub-
cutaneous tissue, and hair loss.  
15.6.5      Retinopathy 
 The eye examination schedule should follow the 
American Diabetes Association’s Clinical 
Practice Guidelines [ 28 ]. For patients who have 
proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) that is 
active, strenuous activity may precipitate vitre-
ous hemorrhage or traction retinal detachment. 
High-volume moderate-resistance exercise has 
been shown to result in ﬂ  uctuation in systolic 
blood pressure to generally less than 180 mm and 
is probably safe. However, athletes with prolifer-
ative retinopathy should exercise caution when 
attempting exercises that involve Valsalva 
maneuvers or sudden jarring motions. 
 On the basis of Joslin Clinic experience, the 
degree of diabetic retinopathy has been used to 
stratify the risk of exercise and to individually tailor 
the exercise recommendations. Table  15.2  noted 
below provides viable considerations for activity 
limitations in diabetic retinopathy clients.
15.6.6         Nephropathy 
 Many patients with long-standing diabetes mel-
litus and no proteinuria at rest will develop sig-
niﬁ cant proteinuria after an intensive exercise 
session. Active individuals should be instructed 
not to engage in intensive activity prior to assess-
ment for proteinuria. The predictive value for 
such exercise-related increments of urinary pro-
tein on the subsequent development of renal dis-
ease is still undetermined. 
 Athletes with diabetes do not have a higher 
incidence of end-stage renal disease in cross- 
sectional studies. Speciﬁ  c exercise recommenda-
tions have not been developed for patients with 
incipient (microalbuminuria >20 albumin excre tion) or overt nephropathy (>200 mg/min) [ 29 ]. 
Patients with overt nephropathy often have a 
reduced capacity for exercise which leads to self- 
limitation in activity level. Although there is no 
clear reason to limit low to moderate intensity 
forms of activity, very high-intensity or strenuous 
exercises should probably be discouraged as the 
hemodynamic consequences are likely to be det-
rimental. Many athletes use dietary supplements 
very high in protein and these should be avoided 
in the presence of renal disease as high protein 
intake may accelerate loss of renal function.   
15.7     Preparing for Exercise 
 A standard recommendation for athletes with 
diabetes is that exercises include a proper warm-
 up and cooldown period. A warm-up should    Table 15.2    Considerations for activity limitation in 
diabetic retinopathy (DR)   
 Mild nonproliferative 
diabetic retinopathy 
 reevaluation suggested in 
6–12 months 
 Moderate nonproliferative 
diabetic retinopathy 
 reevaluation in 4–6 months  Discourage activities that 
dramatically elevate 
blood pressure 
 – Power lifting 
 – Heavy Valsalva 
 Severe nonproliferative 
diabetic retinopathy 
 reevaluation in 2–4 months  Discourage activities that 
substantially increase 
systolic blood pressure, 
Valsalva maneuvers, and 
active jarring: 
 – Boxing 
 – Heavy competitive 
sports 
 Proliferative diabetic 
retinopathy-acceptable 
activities: 
 – Low-impact 
cardiovascular 
conditioning 
 – Swimming (not diving) 
 – Walking 
 – Low-impact aerobics 
 – Stationary cycling 
 – Endurance exercises 
 Reevaluation in 1–2 months 
(may require laser surgery)  Discourage strenuous 
activities, 
 Valsalva maneuvers, 
pounding, or jarring: 
 – Weight lifting 
 – Jogging 
 – High-impact aerobics 
 – Racket sports 
 – Strenuous trumpet 
playing 15 Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes

350
consist of 5–10 min of aerobic activity (walking, 
cycling, etc.) at low-intensity level. 
 After a short warm-up, muscles should be 
gently stretched for another 5–10 min. Following 
the activity session, a cooldown should be struc-
tured similarly to the warm-up. The cooldown 
should last about 5–10 min and gradually bring 
the heart rate down to its pre-exercise level. Many 
exercise-related arrhythmias occur during the 
postexercise recovery period and it has been 
suggested the high levels of FFA that occur when 
exercise is abruptly terminated may contribute. 
A cooldown period will blunt this response. 
 There are several considerations that are 
particularly important and speciﬁ  c for the indi-
viduals with diabetes.
 –    High-resistance exercise using weights may be 
acceptable for young individuals with diabe-
tes, but not for older individuals or those with 
long-standing diabetes. Moderate weight 
training programs that utilize light weights 
and high repetitions can be used for maintain-
ing or enhancing muscle strength in nearly all 
patients with diabetes.  
 –   Readily digestible, well-tolerated foods and 
suitable timing prevent exercising with a full 
stomach. Meals should contain complex car-
bohydrates and proteins for satiety. Hypertonic 
drinks (high carbohydrates) reduce gastric 
emptying speed leading to gastric dilatation. 
This can cause nausea and impair performance 
in athletic activity. These drinks also cause a 
sharp spike in blood glucose level. Instead iso-
tonic drinks with 5–8 g of carbohydrates/100 ml 
are more advisable for rehydration.     
15.8     Exercise Prescription 
 The recommendations given below may be use ful 
for previously sedentary patients with diabetes 
who wish to initiate serious programs of physical 
activity. These exercise prescription categories 
include the following considerations: 15.8.1      Type of Exercise 
 Aerobic-type activities, for example, swim-
ming, cycling, and brisk walking, are usually 
recommended to patients with diabetes mellitus. 
These exercises result in improved insulin sen-
sitivity and enhanced glucose disposal per unit 
of muscle mass. Recent studies [ 11 ] suggest that 
a single bout of resistance-type exercise reduced 
the prevalence of hyperglycemia by as much as 
   35 ± 7 % during the 24 h postexercise period 
when compared with the control (no-exercise) 
experiment. A similar 33 ± 11 % reduction in the 
prevalence of hyperglycemia was observed fol-
lowing a corresponding 45 min bout of endur-
ance-type exercise. Previously, the beneﬁ  ts of 
resistance-type exercise training on glycemic 
control have often been ascribed to an increase 
in muscle mass over time and concomitant 
expansion of glucose disposal capacity [ 12 ]. 
However, recent studies have shown that a sin-
gle bout of resistance-type exercise improves 
glycemic control for up to 24 h following exer-
cise, without changes in muscle mass. 
 Studies [ 30 ] have shown that athletes with 
type 1 diabetes mellitus might beneﬁ  t from 
resistance exercise. Resistance exercise is asso-
ciated with improvements in muscular strength 
[ 31 ], improved lipid proﬁ  les, lower insulin 
needs, and lower self-monitored blood glucose 
levels in individuals with type 1 diabetes melli-
tus. More exercise-associated glycemic ﬂ  uctua-
tions were observed with aerobic exercise 
compared with resistance exercise. Resistance 
exercise may be more beneﬁ  cial as far as glu-
cose stability is concerned. Meanwhile, it should 
also be noted that postexercise hypoglycemia 
might occur more frequently in individuals who 
have changed their exercise routine to incorpo-
rate resistance training or for patients unaccus-
tomed to exercise. 
 To summarize, a single session of resistance- 
or endurance-type exercise substantially reduces 
the prevalence of hyperglycemia and improves 
glycemic control during the subsequent 24 h 
period.  A. Ohri et al.

351
15.8.2      Intensity and Duration 
of Exercise 
 There have been few studies regarding the optimal 
duration of exercise necessary to maximize ben-
eﬁ cial metabolic effects. Exercise of less than 
15–20 min duration generally results in poor 
training effect, whereas sessions of greater than 
45 min are associated with an increased inci-
dence of musculoskeletal injuries. Interestingly, 
rest periods of up to 90 s every 5 min have little 
effect on improved ﬁ  tness for a given total 
amount of exercise, and frequent brief rest peri-
ods are probably a good strategy for older and 
more sedentary patients who cannot tolerate 
sustained exercise of even low intensity [ 32 ]. 
 Optimization of a speciﬁ  c physiological or 
metabolic effect may require different levels of 
exercise intensity. In terms of glucose disposal, 
exercise of 30 % of their maximum aerobic 
capacity or less has been associated with little 
beneﬁ  t. At exercise intensities of greater than 
50 % of maximum aerobic capacity, improve-
ments in glucose disposal are related to the total 
work performed. Thus, a decrease in intensity 
can be compensated for to some degree by an 
increase in duration of exercise. Other metabolic 
parameters, e.g., lipid metabolism and coagula-
tion parameters, may require workloads of differ-
ent intensities and frequencies. At any rate, it 
appears reasonable to recommend an exercise 
intensity of 50–70 % of maximum aerobic capac-
ity for most individuals. This can be prescribed in 
terms of heart rate, which can easily be moni tored 
by patients. 
 An estimate of the target pulse can be obtained 
using the following formula [ 32 ]:
 Target pulse to
maximalheart rate restingheart rate
re=
- ()
+05 07..
sstingheart rate.  
  Resting heart rate should be measured by the 
patient before getting out of bed in the morning. It 
should be kept in mind that estimates of maximal heart rate derived from standard tables based on 
normal populations correlate poorly with maxi-
mal heart rates of patients with diabetes. The 
exercise program can be initiated at a target pulse 
corresponding to about 50 % of maximum aero-
bic capacity and gradually increased to the desired 
range over a 3–4-week period.  
15.8.3      Frequency of Exercise 
 The optimal frequency of exercise regimens is 
unknown. If transient effects of individual exer-
cise bouts are of paramount importance, it is 
likely that exercise of greater frequency will 
result in maximal metabolic beneﬁ  t. One can-
not fully compensate for a decreased frequency 
of exercise by increasing the intensity of indi-
vidual exercise sessions, and, in general, exer-
cise frequencies of less than 3–4 times a week 
do not result in substantial beneﬁ  ts. For many 
type 1 diabetes mellitus patients, a daily exer-
cise regimen will allow for more predictable 
insulin dosing and more stable metabolic con trol. 
For some patients brief, intense interval ex ercise 
bouts undertaken immediately before breakfast, 
lunch, and dinner had a greater impact on post-
prandial and subsequent 24 h glucose concen-
trations then a single bout of continuous 
exercise [ 33 ].  
15.8.4      Time of Day 
 In general, patient convenience is the major deter-
minant of time of exercise. However, insulin resis-
tance is greater early in the day, and because of the 
relatively transient effects of exercise on glucose 
disposal, it is likely that exercise done in the morn-
ing will have the greatest impact on glycemic 
excursions throughout the day. Exercise sessions 
in the evening may be associated with a higher risk 
of unappreciated hypoglycemia overnight, and 
assessment of glucose in the early morning hours 
may be necessary.  15 Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes

352
15.8.5      Exercise and Cardiovascular 
Disease 
 Studies done in the past have uniformly shown 
that exercise training restores myocardial struc-
ture and performance, with increasing resistance 
to ischemia and favorable metabolic effects. A 
recent study showed that weight loss in patients 
enrolled in an exercise program may have a 
beneﬁ  cial effect on myocardial function, but the 
relative roles of exercise and weight loss require 
further deﬁ  nition [ 34 ,  35 ].  
15.8.6      Effects on the Components 
of the Metabolic Syndrome 
15.8.6.1      Hypertension 
 Physical training is associated with a modest 
(5–10 mmHg) decrease in systolic and diastolic 
blood pressure and a modest decrease in the percent-
age of patients who go on to require antihypertensive 
medication. Beneﬁ  ts are at least as good and possi-
bly better in older subjects and women. Improvements 
are most likely to be noted in the more insulin-resis-
tant hyperinsulinemic patients.  
15.8.6.2      Hyperlipidemia 
 The most consistent effect of regular exercise is a 
transient decrease in plasma triglyceride levels, 
which often fall by up to 30 %. Changes in LDL 
cholesterol have not been consistently demon-
strated, but exercise does appear to diminish the 
concentration of a small, dense subclass of LDL 
that may be more strongly associated with athero-
sclerotic cardiovascular disease [ 36 ]. Effects are 
greatest in more insulin-resistant hypertriglyceri-
demic patients. Increases in HDL cholesterol can 
occur but this generally required exercise of an 
intensity and duration seen in athletes but rarely 
achieved by most patients.   
15.8.7      Role of Exercise in Prevention 
of Type 2 Diabetes 
 Research studies have shown that exercise pre-
vents the progression to overt type 2 diabetes 
mellitus [ 37 ,  38 ]. Analysis of select populations has shown that the occurrence of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus is higher in sedentary as compared to 
physically active men. Regular exercise improves 
insulin sensitivity and decreases visceral adipos-
ity. Although obesity is generally regarded as the 
major risk factor for development of type 2 dia-
betes mellitus [ 39 ], decreased physical activity 
independent of obesity has also been identiﬁ  ed as 
an important predictor of the disease. Several 
studies have shown that exercise, by reversing 
insulin resistance, might delay the progression to 
type 2 diabetes mellitus.   
15.9     Exercise in Special Athlete 
Groups 
15.9.1      Swimming 
 Principles outlined for other types of exercise 
apply for swimming. In addition, athletes should 
note that their insulin absorption might decrease 
when swimming in cooler water. Heat increases 
absorption of insulin while cold decreases 
absorption. Extreme ambient temperatures 
(<36 F or >86 F) can affect insulin housed within 
the pump and interfere with insulin action.  
15.9.2      Scuba Diving 
 The effects of scuba diving on those with diabe-
tes have not been well established. Diabetes is 
listed as a contraindication by many scuba div-
ing certiﬁ  cation agencies. This is apparently 
based on the risk and subsequent consequences 
of hypoglycemia while diving. The interplay of 
diabetic complications, e.g., micro/macrovas-
cular diseases, with diving physiology has not 
been considered the major limiting factor to 
diving. People with diabetes need to be primar-
ily concerned with the prevention of hypogly-
cemia while scuba diving (and be prepared for 
in-water treatment of hypoglycemia), the possi-
ble relationship between diabetic complications 
and diving physiology (pressure, circulatory, 
and respiratory), and adequate training to antic-
ipate and treat diabetes-related problems during 
diving. A. Ohri et al.

353
 For further details, please refer to ADA recom-
mendations in “The Health Professional’s Guide 
to Diabetes and Exercise” [ 40 ].   
15.10     Interaction of Commonly 
Used Drugs with Exercise 
15.10.1      Alcohol 
 Some alcoholic beverages are used by athletes 
for hydration. Beer, for example, is a rich source 
of carbohydrate and can contribute to electrolyte 
replacement as well as water [ 41 ]. The contrain-
dicated concerns with alcohol are as follows:
    1.    It has a diuretic effect and can lead to 
dehydration.   
   2.    Alcohol is a glycogenolytic agent and initially 
causes a short-lived hyperglycemia. 
Subsequently, hypoglycemia is a more impor-
tant consideration (due to exhaustion of gly-
cogen stores and inhibition of hepatic glucose 
production). As little as two “shots” or two 
beers can inhibit gluconeogenesis by 80 %.    
15.10.2        Beta Blockers 
 These agents have been reported to increase the 
incidence of hypoglycemia in some individuals. 
It is a rare side effect of the drug in type 2 diabe-
tes mellitus where glucagon is preserved, but in 
long-standing type 1 diabetes mellitus or follow-
ing pancreatectomy where there is a loss of glu-
cagon, beta blockers may predispose to 
hypoglycemia and delay recovery from hypogly-
cemic events, especially in the presence of auto-
nomic dysfunction. These agents need not be 
avoided but should be used with caution.  
15.10.3      Sulfonylureas 
 Sulfonylureas work by stimulating the release of 
insulin from the beta cells of the pancreas and 
enhancing beta cell sensitivity to glucose. Sulfonylureas are effective in decreasing plasma 
glucose by 50–70 % and reducing HgA1c by 
1.5–1.7. Sulfonylureas have the same general 
restrictions as insulin. They can cause hypogly-
cemia and weight gain. Dose reduction may be 
needed when starting exercise to prevent hypo-
glycemic episodes.  
15.10.4      DPP-4 Inhibitors and GLP-1 
Agonists 
 Both these classes of drug work by enhancing or 
mimicking the effects of GLP-1, a major gut 
incretin. DPP-4 inhibitors prevent the degrada-
tion of incretion, while GLP-1 agonists mimic 
the action of incretin. Due to their mechanism of 
action, the drugs help lower post-meal blood 
sugars. They have lesser propensity to cause 
hypoglycemia as compared to sulfonylureas. 
The average decrease in HgA1c after 24 weeks 
of therapy with DPP-4 inhibitors varies between 
0.65 and 1.4 %. GLP-1 agonists have been shown 
to decrease HgA1c by 1.23 % in long-term 
studies.  
15.10.5      Acarbose 
 Acarbose works by inhibiting alpha-glucosidase 
enzyme in the brush border of the small intes-
tine and alpha amylase. These enzymes hydro-
lyze complex carbohydrates to glucose and 
other monosaccharides. Inhibition of the 
enzyme leads to slower and more prolonged 
glucose absorption. This helps lower the post-
prandial blood glucose levels. Since acarbose 
prevents the degradation of complex carbohy-
drates into glucose, some carbohydrates will be 
undigested and be delivered to the colon causing 
GI side effects like ﬂ  atulence and diarrhea. 
While acarbose does not cause hypoglycemia, 
consumption of complex carbohydrates may fail 
to increase blood glucose levels when needed to 
prevent or treat hypoglycemia. Such patients 
should be instructed to use a simple glucose 
source such as glucose tablets or gel to treat 
hypoglycemic events.  15 Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes

354
15.10.6      Sodium Glucose 
Cotransporter-2 Inhibitors 
 Sodium glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) inhibi-
tors are a new class of oral drugs for treatment 
of type 2 diabetes mellitus. They inhibit glucose 
reabsorption in the proximal renal tubules pro-
viding an insulin-independent mechanism of 
lowering blood glucose. Their use in clinical 
practice is associated with improved blood glu-
cose and weight loss. These drugs lead to an 
increase in urinary output because of osmotic 
diuresis and there is a concern for dehydration. 
Adequate hydration is an important consideration 
with the use of these drugs in athletes.   
15.11     Glycogen Loading 
 The initial level of stored glycogen in the muscle 
and liver has been shown to be an important 
determinant of the ability to engage in long-term 
endurance exercise. When glycogen is depleted 
and then carbohydrate is refed, a rebound in gly-
cogen levels to well above basal transiently 
occurs which has been termed super compensa-
tion. A similar phenomenon may occur with 
depletion of intramuscular triglycerides. Various 
combinations of dietary CHO restriction and 
exercise to deplete glycogen stores along with 
high-carbohydrate refeeding regimens have been 
proposed over the years. It is important to note 
that while glycogen loading may improve endur-
ance, it may cause edema and stiffening of mus-
cles and could be associated with a higher 
incidence of myoglobinuria after events such as 
marathon running. Patients with diabetes develop 
an increase in insulin sensitivity with glycogen 
depletion in muscle and super compensation has 
been shown to cause peripheral insulin resis-
tance. Athletes on intensive insulin regimens will 
have to closely monitor their insulin requirement 
throughout any such training regimen. 
 For many athletes, the risk of dropping too 
low in carbohydrates may outweigh the proposed 
beneﬁ  ts of glycogen loading. An alternative 
solution is to taper exercise while maintaining 
carbohydrate intake, which will support increased glycogen levels. It is important to understand that 
glycogen loading is primarily helpful for long- 
distance endurance athletes (marathon, triathlon) 
and not high-skill/power sports, such as baseball 
or sprinting. For glycogen loading, 8–12 g/kg of 
carbohydrates is recommended for a few days 
leading up to a long-distance event. The amount 
depends on the duration of the event and where 
an individual is starting with their carbohydrate 
intake prior to glycogen loading [ 1 ].  
15.12     Practical Nutrition 
Applications 
 Not all carbohydrates are created equal. When it 
comes to carbohydrate quality, the timing and 
type of the carbohydrate, as well as the type and 
duration of exercise, will dramatically impact the 
best glycemic option for the athlete. This section 
will discuss the different types of carbohydrates, 
how to determine the quality of the carbohydrate 
on a daily basis, and when appropriate times are 
to have different types of carbohydrates. 
15.12.1      Determining Carbohydrate 
Quality: Low- Versus High- 
Glycemic Carbohydrates 
 The glycemic index is a measure of how foods 
affect the blood glucose level, which directly 
impacts the risk of hypo- and hyperglycemia epi-
sodes. The speed of digestion of a carbohydrate 
is determined by multiple factors. Some of these 
factors include whether it is starchy versus sug-
ary and whole grain versus reﬁ  ned and the dietary 
ﬁ ber content as well as its interaction with pro-
tein and fats, which will be discussed later. 
Starches are made of multiple units of sugar such 
as glucose. The longer and more complex the 
units of carbohydrates, the longer it takes to 
digest. This is in contrast to simple carbohydrates 
and sugars, which are single, di-, or shorter chains 
of carbohydrates that tend to digest quickly. 
When considering the complex carbohydrate 
chain length, the longer the chain length, the 
slower the glycemic response. Hence, the shorter A. Ohri et al.

355
the carbohydrate chain length, the faster the gly-
cemic response. 
 The next factor is the dietary ﬁ  ber component. 
Dietary ﬁ  bers are nondigestible carbohydrates 
that act to slow digestion and blunt the glycemic 
response to allow for a sustained release of blood 
glucose as well as insulin. Whole grains tend to 
have higher ﬁ  ber and other nutrients to improve 
blood glucose relative to reﬁ  ned grains, which 
are stripped of the ﬁ  ber-containing bran. The car-
bohydrate to dietary ﬁ  ber ratio has become a sta-
ble recommendation to determine the quality of 
the carbohydrate consumed. The ideal ratio for 
providing sustained energy and blood glucose 
levels is a 5:1 ratio of total carbohydrates to ﬁ  ber. 
 Low-glycemic carbohydrates provide more 
sustainable energy, with less spikes and dips in 
blood sugar and insulin. Low-glycemic carbohy-
drates tend to be higher in ﬁ  ber and lower in 
sugar. As a result, they are slower to digest and 
help maintain muscle and brain fuel. For the 
majority of the day, these are the preferred choice 
of carbohydrate type to consume for maintaining 
steady blood sugar. Examples of low-glycemic 
carbohydrates include oatmeal, unﬂ  avored pop-
corn, leafy vegetables, and certain fruits, includ-
ing apples with the skin and many different 
berries. 
 High-glycemic index carbohydrates are fast- 
digesting, quickly increasing blood glucose 
levels, and tend to be low in ﬁ  ber and higher in 
sugar. These are tools that can be used with ath-
letes but only at speciﬁ  c times of the day when 
quick bursts of energy or increases in blood glu-
coses are needed. Examples of high-glycemic 
carbohydrates include juices, white breads, white 
rice, corn, potatoes, and certain fruits, such as 
watermelon, banana, and grapes. Many of the 
most popular breakfast cereals have a total car-
bohydrate to ﬁ  ber ratio as high as 50:1, reﬂ  ect-
ing a high glycemic index. It is important for 
athletes to take this into consideration when 
making their cereal choices, as choosing cereals 
with a lower carbohydrate to ﬁ  ber ratio (ideally 5:1) 
will help stabilize blood glucose levels during the 
day. Please see Table  15.3  to determine viable 
low- and high-glycemic carbohydrate snack 
options accordingly.15.12.2         Interaction of Carbohydrates 
with Other Nutrients 
 Although we discussed the importance of carbo-
hydrates on blood glucose, it is important to 
understand the interaction of other nutrients on 
blood glucose control. In particular, the follow-
ing section will discuss the impact of proteins 
and fats for athletes with diabetes. 
 Proteins have an important role in regulating 
glycemic and insulin responses. Studies show 
that people who are trying to manage weight 
and blood glucose greatly beneﬁ  t from higher 
protein diets [ 42 ]. When proteins are consumed, 
the body is able to use amino acids to produce 
its own supply of glucose in the liver. This 
helps to provide a sustained supply of glucose     Table 15.3    Low- and high-glycemic snacking foods   
  Low-glycemic carbohydrate snacks    a   
 Whole grain bread 
 Whole wheat pasta 
 Oatmeal 
 Apples 
 Berries (any type) 
 Low-fat, low-sugar popcorn 
 High-ﬁ  ber cereals (5:1 carb to ﬁ  ber ratio) 
 Brown rice 
 Whole wheat tortillas 
 Beans 
  High-glycemic carbohydrate snacks   
 Melon 
 Bananas 
 Grapes 
 White bread 
 White rice 
 White potatoes 
 Cream of wheat 
 High-sugar, low-ﬁ  ber cereals (>10:1 carb to ﬁ  ber ratio) 
 White bagels 
 Sports drinks 
 Sports bars and candy bars 
 Potato chips and crackers 
   a Low-glycemic snacks should be chosen for the majority of 
the day. High-glycemic snacks should purely be used when 
a quick rise in energy or blood glucose is needed such as 
during or after exercise or to avoid hypoglycemia.  15 Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes

356
to the body. Studies show that people on higher 
protein diets have more stable blood glucose 
and insulin levels when waking. While total 
protein requirements for athletes are greater, 
we recommend it is best to think of proteins on 
a per-meal basis, as proteins have important 
acute timing effects, and if the distribution of 
protein intake is suboptimal, then the glycemic 
beneﬁ  ts of proteins will not be achieved. 
Accordingly, research suggests that adults 
should aim for ~30 g of protein per meal from 
high-quality sources (i.e., animal proteins, 
dairy, etc.) will help support euglycemia as well 
as muscle building and recovery from exercise 
[ 43 ,  44 ]. Patients with diabetic or other renal 
diseases, on the other hand, may beneﬁ  t from 
limiting protein intake to about 1 g per kilogram 
of IBW. 
 Fats also play a critical role in regulating 
glycemia. Dietary fats potently slow digestion, 
in part by stimulating release of the gut peptide 
cholecystokinin (CCK). Consuming fats with a 
meal can substantially lower the glycemic 
response and regulate blood glucose levels. 
This delay in carbohydrate absorption may be 
particularly useful at night to avoid delayed 
hypoglycemia.  
15.12.3      Carbohydrate Counting 
 Carbohydrate counting has been shown to be an 
extremely effective method for managing diabe-
tes when executed properly. Nutrition education 
and interventions demonstrate the impact that this 
can have for helping reduce risk of hyper- and 
hypoglycemia [ 45 ]. Through teaching individuals 
the portions of foods that reﬂ  ect a standard 15 g of 
carbohydrates, an individual can effectively man-
age their blood glucose. The amount of insulin 
used to cover an individual’s carbohydrate needs 
varies and is determined by the endocrinologist. 
During of stress, illness, and growth spurts, an 
individual’s carbohydrate/insulin ratio can vary 
signiﬁ  cantly.  15.12.4      Carbohydrate Type 
and Nutrient Timing 
 When it comes to the timing of carbohydrates, 
the primary times to consider different types of 
carbohydrates include meals during the day and 
before bed, as well as pre-exercise, during exer-
cise, and postexercise. At breakfast and lunch 
and for most snacks, the majority of your carbo-
hydrates should be low-glycemic and slow- 
digesting, aiming for the ratio of 5:1 for total 
carbohydrates to dietary ﬁ  ber. 
 Intense exercise during the day or evening 
increases the risk for hypoglycemia up to a few 
hours following the completion of exercise. This 
is referred to as delayed-onset hypoglycemia 
(CITE). Accordingly, at night before sleeping, it 
is important that sufﬁ  cient carbohydrates be con-
sumed to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia. 
Too much insulin, insufﬁ  cient carbohydrates, or 
consuming high-glycemic foods can increase risk 
of the hypoglycemia. In addition to a low- 
glycemic carbohydrate, the addition of protein, 
fats, and low-glycemic vegetables can help pre-
vent low blood glucose. 
 Fast-digesting carbohydrates, which have a 
high glycemic index, are to be utilized if exercise 
is longer than 75 min to minimize hypoglycemia. 
Below is a recommended meal timeline for ath-
letes around their workouts. For sample meal 
plans, see  Appendix  . 
15.12.4.1      Pre-workout Nutrition 
 3–4 h prior: low-glycemic carbohydrates (5:1 
ratio). 
 60 min prior: low glycemic, depending on the 
individual’s digestion rates. This recommendation 
is very individualized and athletes must experi-
ment on what works for their stomach and training 
needs. Some athletes can only eat meals 3 h prior 
to exercise, while others may have a moderate-
glycemic index carbohydrate (8:1 carbohydrate to 
ﬁ ber ratio) at this time, such as a granola bar. 
 15 min before: high glycemic (oranges, 
grapes, watermelon).  A. Ohri et al.

357
15.12.4.2      During Workout Nutrition 
 <60 min training sessions: if the training session 
is short, then an electrolyte containing beverage 
with small amounts of carbohydrates may be 
sipped on during the training session (150–240 ml 
for 15–20 min of exercise). 
 >75 min long training sessions: high-glycemic 
sports drinks with electrolytes should be con-
sumed for high-intensity sports, such as soccer 
and basketball. Approximately 30–60 g of carbo-
hydrates is shown to improve athletic perfor-
mance [ 46 – 49 ]. 
 Power- and skill-based sports, such as base-
ball and golf, usually beneﬁ  t from low- to 
moderate- glycemic carbohydrate snacks even 
during exercise. The use of high-glycemic carbo-
hydrates in these sports is typically only in 
response to low blood glucose or when one is at 
risk for low blood glucose.  
15.12.4.3      Postexercise Nutrition 
     1.    High-glycemic carbohydrates should be con-
sumed if athletes have more than one training 
session of the same body part within 24 h or if 
total carbs are limited throughout the day. 
However, if there is sufﬁ  cient time to replen-
ish glycogen stores between two training 
sessions or competitions, then focusing on 
high-glycemic carbohydrates after workouts 
is not as critical. If there are multiple training 
sessions of the same body part within 12–24 h 
of the workout completion, a fast-digesting 
carb will speed glycogen replenishment to 
allow for glycogen to be utilized in the follow-
ing session for fuel. Combining a high-quality, 
rapidly digesting protein with carbs after a 
workout will even further speed glycogen 
replenishment. However, it is important to 
follow a fast-digesting carbohydrate contain-
ing meal with a low-glycemic index meal 
within 60–90 min to help stabilize blood glu-
cose levels. For individuals whose goals are 
not performance- based, but rather body com-
position or overall health, appropriate recovery 
and spacing of training allow for consumption of low-glycemic carbohydrates following a 
workout. In this case, glycogen replenishment 
is not as critical as providing long-lasting fuel 
for the muscles. In addition, please see 
Table  15.3  for sample low-glycemic snack 
foods at bedtime.            
15.13      Appendix 
15.13.1      Sample Meal Plans 
15.13.1.1      Endurance Athlete (Track, 
Soccer) 
  Note:   Serving sizes will depend on the individual 
athlete needs and should be customized by their 
endocrinologist and dietitian.   
15.13.2      Breakfast (3 h Pre-workout) 
 Omelet (3 eggs, ¼ cup of low-fat cheese, 2 slices 
of ham) 
 1 cup of oatmeal 
 ½ cup of blueberries  
15.13.3      Snack (1 h Pre-workout) 
 High-ﬁ  ber granola bar (5:1 ratio) and an apple  
15.13.4      During Workout 
 Every 15 min sip on 150–240 ml of 6–8 % 
carbohydrate containing sports beverage with 
electrolytes.  
15.13.5      Post-workout (Within 
60 min) 
 Fast-digesting protein (whey or eggs) combined 
with high-glycemic carbohydrate (sports drink, 
white rice, or white bread)  15 Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes

358
15.13.6      Post-workout Meal (Lunch) 
(Within 60–90 min Following 
Post-workout Shake) 
 4 oz. salmon 
 1 cup of brown rice 
 Mixed salad 
 Tbsp. olive oil     
15.13.7      Snack 
 1 cup of Greek yogurt 
 2 cups of mixed berries 
 1 tbsp. peanut butter  
15.13.8      Dinner 
 6 oz. ﬂ  ank steak 
 4 oz. broccoli 
 1 whole grain dinner roll 
 1 cup of brown rice  
15.13.9      Presleep Snack 
 4 oz. low-fat Greek yogurt 
 1 cup of 1 % milk 
 2 pieces of whole grain bread 
 2 tbsp. peanut butter 
 1 tsp. jelly 
15.13.9.1      Power/Skill Athlete (Baseball, 
Powerlifting) 
  Note:   Serving sizes will depend on the individual 
athlete needs and should be customized by their 
endocrinologist and dietitian.   
15.13.10      Breakfast (3 h Pre-workout) 
 Omelet (3 eggs, ¼ cup of low-fat cheese, 2 slices 
of ham) 
 1 cup of oatmeal 
 ½ cup of blueberries  15.13.11      Snack (1 h Pre-workout) 
 High-ﬁ  ber granola bar (5:1 ratio) and an apple  
15.13.12      During Workout 
 Every 15 min sip on 150–240 ml of water with 
electrolytes or low-sugar sports drink. For long- 
duration games or matches >60 min, snack on 
moderate-glycemic index carbohydrates (7:1 ratio 
carbohydrates to ﬁ  ber) such as granola bars and 
oranges.  
15.13.13      Post-workout (Within 
60 min) 
 Protein and low-glycemic carbohydrates—1 
whole grain bagel, 1 apple, 8 oz. low-fat Greek 
yogurt  
15.13.14      Post-workout Meal (Lunch) 
(Within 60–90 min 
Following Post-workout 
Shake) 
 4 oz. salmon 
 1 cup of brown rice 
 Mixed salad 
 Tbsp. olive oil     
15.13.15      Snack 
 1 cup of Greek yogurt 
 2 cups of mixed berries 
 1 tbsp. peanut butter  
15.13.16      Dinner 
 6 oz. steak 
 4 oz. broccoli 
 1 whole grain dinner roll 
 2 whole grain tortillas  A. Ohri et al.

359
15.13.17      Presleep Snack 
 20 g of whey protein mixed in water 
 2 pieces of whole grain bread 
 2 tbsp. peanut butter 
 1 tsp. jelly 
 1 cup of spinach    
   References 
     1.    American Diabetes Association. Diagnosis and clas-
siﬁ cation of diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care. 2010;33 
Suppl 1:S62–9.  
    2.   Rollo J. Cases of Diabetes Mellitus: with the results of 
the trials of certain acids and other substances in the 
cure of the Lues Venera. 2nd ed. London: Dilly; 1798.  
    3.    Praet SFE, van Loon LJ. Exercise: the brittle corner-
stone of Type 2 diabetes treatment. Diabetologia. 
2008;51(3):398–401.  
   4.    Schneider SH, Elouzi EB. The role of exercise in Type 
2 Diabetes Mellitus. Prev Cardiol. 2000;3(2):77–82.  
    5.    Mikus CR, Oberlin DJ, Libla J, Boyle LJ, Thyfault 
JP. Glycaemic control is improved by 7 days of aero-
bic exercise training in patients with Type 2 Diabetes. 
Diabetologia. 2012;55(5):1417–23. doi:  10.1007/
s00125-012-2490-8    .  
    6.   Kohn HW, Gordon NF, Villegas JA, Blair 
SN. Cardiorespiratory ﬁ  tness, glycemic status and 
mortality risk in men. Diabetes Care. 1992;184–192.  
    7.    Devlin JT. Effects of exercise on insulin sensitivity in 
humans. Diabetes Care. 1992;15(11):1690–3.  
    8.    Prior SJ, Blumenthal JB, Katzel LI, Goldberg AP, 
Ryan AS. Increased skeletal muscle capillarization 
after aerobic exercise training and weight loss 
improves insulin sensitivity in adults with 
IGT. Diabetes Care. 2014;37(5):1469–75.  
    9.      Goodyear LJ, Smith RJ. Exercise and diabetes. In: 
Kahn CR, Weir GC, editors. Joslin’s diabetes. 13th ed. 
Boston, MA: Lea and Febiger; 1994. p. 451–9.  
    10.    Schneider SH. Long-term exercise programs. In: 
Ruderman N, Devlin JT, editors. The health profession-
al’s guide to diabetes and exercise. Alexandria, V A: 
American Diabetes Association; 1995. p. 125–32.  
     11.    van Dijk JW, Manders RJF, Tummers K, Bonomi AG, 
Stehouwer CDA, Hartgens F, van Loon LJC. Both 
resistance- and endurance-type exercise reduce the 
prevalence of hyperglycaemia in individuals with 
impaired glucose tolerance and in insulin-treated and 
non-insulin-treated type 2 diabetic patients. 
Diabetologia. 2012;55(5):1273–82.  
     12.    Eves ND, Plotnikoff RC. Resistance training and 
type 2 diabetes: considerations for implementation at 
the population level. Diabetes Care. 2006;29(8):
1933–41.  
    13.    Schneider SH, Amorosa LF, Khachadurian AK, 
Ruderman NB. Studies on the mechanism of improved glucose control during regular exercise in type2 
(non- insulin dependent) Diabetes. Diabetologia. 
1984;26(5):355–60.  
    14.    Peterson CM, Jones RL, Dupuis A, Levine BS, 
Bernstein R, O’Shea M. Feasibility of improved 
blood glucose control in patients with insulin- 
dependent Diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care. 1979;
2(4):329–35.  
    15.    Schneider SH, Kachadurian AK. Ten-year experience 
with an exercise-based outpatient life-style modiﬁ  ca-
tion program in the treatment of diabetes mellitus. 
Diabetes Care. 1992;15(11):1800–10.  
   16.    Tonoli C, Heyman E. Effects of different types of 
acute and chronic (training) exercise on glycemic 
control in Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus: a meta-analysis. 
Sports Med. 2012;42(12):1059–80.  
    17.    Metcalf KM, Singhvi A. Effects of moderate to vig-
orous intensity physical activity on overnight and 
next- day hypoglycemia in active adolescents with 
Type 1 Diabetes. Diabetes Care. 2014;37(5):
1272–8.  
    18.    Davey RJ, Paramalingam N, Retterath A, Lim EM, 
Davis E, Jones TW, Fournier PAF. Antecedent hypo-
glycaemia does not diminish the glycaemia- increasing 
effect and glucoregulatory responses of a 10 s sprint in 
people with Type 1 Diabetes. Diabetologia. 2014;
57:1111–8.  
    19.    Figueira FR, Umpierre D, Ribeiro JP, Tetelbom PS, 
Henn NT, Esteves JF, Schaan BD. Accuracy of con-
tinuous glucose monitoring system during exercise in 
Type 2 Diabetes. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2012;
98(3):e36–9.  
   20.    Radermecker RP, Fayolle C, Brun JF, Bringer J, 
Renard E. Accuracy assessment of online glucose 
monitoring by a subcutaneous enzymatic glucose sen-
sor during exercise in patients with Type 1 Diabetes 
treated by continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion. 
Diabetes Metab. 2013;39(3):258–62.  
    21.    MacLeod SF, Terada T, Chahal BS, Boulé 
NG. Exercise lowers postprandial glucose but not 
fasting glucose in type 2 Diabetes: a meta-analysis of 
studies using continuous glucose monitoring. 
Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2013;29(8):593–603.  
    22.    Jimenez CC. National Athletic Trainers’ Association 
Position Statement: management of the athlete with 
Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus. J Athl Train. 2007;42(4):
536–45.  
    23.    Burr JF, Shephard RJ, Riddell MC. Physical activity 
in Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus: assessing risks for physi-
cal activity clearance and prescription. Can Fam 
Physician. 2012;58(5):533–5.  
    24.    Marwick TH, Hordern MD, Miller T, Chyun DA, 
Bertoni AG, Blumenthal RS, Philippides G, Rocchini 
A. Exercise training for Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus 
impact on cardiovascular risk: a scientiﬁ  c statement 
from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 
2009;119:3244–62.  
    25.    Schneider SH, Shindler D. Application of ADA 
guidelines for evaluation of the diabetic patient before 
recommending exercise program. In: Ruderman N, 15 Exercise for Athletes with Diabetes

360
Devlin JT, Schneider SH, Kriska A, editors. Handbook 
of exercise in diabetes. Alexandria, V A: ADA; 2002. 
p. 253–68.  
    26.    Levin ME. The diabetic foot. In: Ruderman N, Devlin 
JT, editors. The health professional’s guide to diabetes 
and exercise. Alexandria, V A: American Diabetes 
Association; 1995. p. 137–41.  
    27.    Vinik AI. Neuropathy. In: Ruderman N, Devlin JT, 
editors. The health professional’s guide to diabetes 
and exercise. Alexandria, V A: American Diabetes 
Association; 1995. p. 183–94.  
    28.    Aiello LM, Cavallerano J. Retinopathy. In: Ruderman 
N, Devlin JT, editors. The health professional’s guide 
to diabetes and exercise. Alexandria, V A: American 
Diabetes Association; 1995. p. 145–51.  
    29.    Mogensen CE. Nephropathy. In: Ruderman N, Devlin 
JT, editors. The health professional’s guide to diabetes 
and exercise. Alexandria, V A: American Diabetes 
Association; 1995. p. 165–71.  
    30.    Yardley JY , Kenny GP, Perkins BA, Riddell MC, 
Balaa N, Malcolm J, Boulay P, Khandwala F, Sigal 
RJ. Resistance versus aerobic exercise acute effects 
on glycemia in type 1 diabetes. Diabetes Care. 2013;
36(3):537–42.  
    31.    Durak EP, Jovanovic-Peterson L, Peterson CM. 
Randomized crossover study of effect of resistance 
training on glycemic control, muscular strength, and 
cholesterol in type I diabetic men. Diabetes Care. 
1990;13(10):1039–43.  
     32.    Kanj H, Schneider SH, Ruderman NB. Exercise and 
Diabetes Mellitus. In: Horton ES, Terjung RL, edi-
tors. Exercise, nutrition and energy metabolism. 
New York: Macmillan; 1988. p. 228–40.  
    33.    Francois ME, Baldi JC, Manning PJ. Exercise snacks’ 
before meals: a novel strategy to improve glycaemic 
control in individuals with insulin resistance. 
Diabetologia. 2014;57:1437–45.  
    34.    Turcotte LP, Fisher JS. Skeletal muscle insulin resis-
tance: roles of fatty acid metabolism and exercise. 
Phys Ther. 2008;88(11):1279–96.  
    35.    Wong CY , Byrne NM, O’Moore-Sullivan T, Hills AP. 
Effect of weight loss due to lifestyle intervention on 
subclinical cardiovascular dysfunction in obesity 
(body mass index >30 kg/m2). Am J Cardiol. 2006;
98(12):1593–8.  
    36.    Houmard JA, Bruno NJ, Bruner RK, McCammon 
MR, Israel RG, Barakat HA. Effects of exercise train-
ing on the chemical composition of plasma LDL. 
Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 1994;14:325–30.  
    37.    Kriska AM, Blair SN, Pereira MA. The potential role 
of physical activity in the prevention of non-Insulin dependent Diabetes mellitus: the epidemiological 
evidence. Exerc Sport Sci Rev. 1991;22:121.  
    38.    Eriksson KF, Lindgärde F. Prevention of Type 2 (non-
insulin- dependent) Diabetes mellitus by diet and 
physical exercise. The 6-year Malmö feasibility study. 
Diabetologia. 1991;34(12):891–8.  
    39.    Dowse GK, Zimmet PZ, Gareeboo H, George K, 
Alberti MM, Tuomilehto J, Finch CF, Chitson P, 
Tulsidas H. Abdominal obesity and physical inactiv-
ity as risk factors for NIDDM and impaired glucose 
tolerance in Indian, Creole, and Chinese Mauritians. 
Diabetes Care. 1991;14(4):271–82.  
    40.    Graham C, Prosterman S. Scuba diving. In: Ruderman 
N, Devlin JT, editors. The health professional’s guide 
to diabetes and exercise. Alexandria, V A: American 
Diabetes Association; 1995. p. 294–6.  
    41.    Howard AA, Arnsten JH, Gourevitch MN. Effect of 
alcohol consumption on Diabetes Mellitus: a sys-
tematic review. Ann Intern Med. 2004;140(3):
211–9.  
    42.    Layman DK. The role of leucine in weight loss diets 
and glucose homeostasis. J Nutr. 2003;133:261S–7.  
    43.    Layman DK, Walker DA. Potential importance of leu-
cine in treatment of obesity and the metabolic syn-
drome. J Nutr. 2006;136:319S–23.  
    44.   Layman DK. Role of leucine in protein metabolism 
during exercise and recovery. Can J Appl Physiol. 
2002;27:646–63. Retrieved from   http://www.ncbi.
nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12501002    .  
    45.    Control TD, Trial C. The effect of intensive treatment of 
diabetes on the development and progression of long-
term complications in insulin-dependent Diabetes 
Mellitus. The Diabetes Control and Complications 
Trial Research Group. N Engl J Med. 1993;329:977–
86. doi:  10.1056/NEJM199309303291401    .  
    46.    Sugiura K, Kobayashi K. Effect of carbohydrate 
ingestion on sprint performance following continuous 
and intermittent exercise. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 
1998;30(11):1624–30.  
   47.    Jeukendrup AE, Brouns F, Wagenmakers AJ, Saris 
WH. Carbohydrate-electrolyte feedings improve 1 h 
time trial cycling performance. Int J Sports Med. 
1997;18(2):125–9.  
   48.    Nicholas CW, Williams C, Lakomy HK, Phillips G, 
Nowitz A. Inﬂ  uence of ingesting a carbohydrate- 
electrolyte solution on endurance capacity during 
intermittent, high-intensity shuttle running. J Sports 
Sci. 1995;13(4):283–90.  
    49.    Coggan AR, Coyle EF. Carbohydrate ingestion during 
prolonged exercise: effects on metabolism and perfor-
mance. Exerc Sport Sci Rev. 1991;19:1–40. Review.      A. Ohri et al.

   Part IV 
   Present and Future Directions of 
Nutritional Supplements        

363 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8_16      Beyond the Obvious: Future 
Innovations in Sports Nutrition 
           Anthony     L.     Almada     
    Abstract  
  The global proliferation of sports nutrition brands is emblematic of the 
size of consumers seeking enhancements through this class of ingestible 
products. However, a nearly ubiquitous theme of commonality is shared 
by these products: the compositions are often close to identical, differing 
only by amount and description, with ancillary alterations in ﬂ  avor or 
packaging. How many branched chain amino acid or whey protein compo-
sitions can be birthed? The future of sports nutrition will continue to wit-
ness the penetration of multinational (food, beverage, and pharma) brands 
entering the fray through acquisition, and patent ﬁ  lings, which may foster 
a generic storm  or  heightened innovation. What remains most compelling 
is the opportunity for true innovation and pioneering to disrupt the highly 
duplicative sports nutrition product landscape. Such adventurous excur-
sions may include systematic research/innovation programs that provide 
novelty, compelling proof of concept, and “real-world” utility; implemen-
tation of research methods that provide direct, inferential insights into the 
bioavailability and metabolism of bioactives; and novel protein/amino 
nitrogen sources that mimic the biological effects of whey protein.  
  Keywords  
  Innovation   •   Performance   •   Glycemic   •   Nutrition   •   Exercise   •   Creatine   • 
   l -Carnitine   •   Protein   •   Whey   •   Vegan   16
        A.  L.   Almada ,  MSc, FISSN      ( *) 
  Vitargo Global Sciences, LLC ,   32565 B Golden 
Lantern PMB 232 ,  Dana Point ,  CA   92629 ,  USA   
 e-mail: anthony@vitargos2.com     For a successful technology, reality must take precedence 
over public relations, for Nature cannot be fooled  .—Richard 
Feynman (Nobel laureate, Physics, 1965), from his report 
on the Challenger mission failure submitted to NASA     Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence  [unless 
intensive investigations have beeyucted]. 
—Modiﬁ  ed from Carl Sagan   

364
16.1      Introduction 
 The enhancement of human muscular perfor-
mance is likely a quest that has endured for mil-
lennia. Arguably, the longevity of the quest to 
enhance the human  physique  , a far more arbitrary 
and subjective pursuit, may be anchored back to 
the advent of the full or part length mirror, 
detailed anatomical drawings, or the camera. The 
emergence of governing or regulatory bodies that 
deﬁ ne what is “legal” or “allowed,” e.g., the 
World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) and Union 
Cycliste Internationale (UCI) have emerged as 
legislators of allowed and prohibited substances 
in competitive sports. The blurring of lines 
between “drugs” and ostensibly legal “sports/
performance nutritionals” (SPNs) has led to 
numerous bioactives found in the latter category 
to be added to the prohibited list of the former. 
 It appears that the majority of SPNs marketed 
across the ﬁ  ve major continents are not offered 
to consumers as  single   bioactive entities, e.g., 
creatine monohydrate and  l -leucine, but as 
multi- ingredient cocktails. The ﬂ  uid and 
 geographically divergent regulatory bar of 
 allowance—for novel bioactives for SPNs—cou-
pled with the apparently constant consumer need 
for novelty and uniqueness, channels and drives 
new product creations and introductions. 
However, from the vantage of a scientist or aca-
demic, consumer or coach, parent or agent, and 
physician or physiotherapist comes the question, 
“Where do these ingredients come from?” A 
companion question, diverging from the chemis-
try of composition and pursuing the path of biol-
ogy—safety and efﬁ  cacy for the actual SPN—is, 
“Does this product work and is it safe?” Invoking 
an epidemiological measure, we have estimated 
that the “prevalence” of an “evidence based” [ 1 ] 
SPN is about 0.001 (or 0.1 %) [ 2 ]. I offer that an 
“evidence-based”  SPN  refers to an SPN that 
enjoys at least one reviewed journal publication 
 describing systematic research on the actual 
SPN —the product offered for sale and marketed 
for speciﬁ  c utilities and beneﬁ  ts. Systematic 
research here refers to randomized controlled tri-
als, performed in human subjects.  The premise that the majority of SPNs offered 
across the globe are NOT evidence based can 
lead one to infer that (1) consumers and purchase 
inﬂ uencers do not assign any measurable value or 
inclusion criterion (for purchase of an SPN) to 
this feature, (2) consumers and purchase inﬂ  u-
encers are ignorant of this lacking attribute, or (3) 
they are persuaded to believe the contrary that a 
large number of SPNs are indeed evidence based. 
Thus, if an evidence base is not a purchase driver, 
and other factors are, what will shape the direc-
tion and destiny of SPNs of the future?  
16.2     Claims Entropy 
 All SPNs are linked to claims—express or overt, 
or implied— on  the actual SPN product  label   and 
“off label”:  online   (the brand website, banner 
advertisements, social media posts),  on air   
(Internet or broadcast radio live interviews or 
commercials, TV advertisements),  on demand   
(YouTube video, podcast, archived webinars),  in 
person   (at a consumer or trade show, with claims 
made by employees or consultants representing 
an SPN brand, sponsored athletes/inﬂ  uencers at a 
competition, or giving a seminar), or  in print   
(advertisements, collateral sales materials, e.g., 
brochures). Could an SPN that makes NO implied 
or express claims, on or off label, survive in the 
claim-laden market landscape? 
 Over the past several years in the course of our 
business, we have encouraged numerous individ-
uals, comprised of elite athletes and their coaches 
or agents, retailers (owners, managers, and staff 
from nutrition, cycling, multisport/triathlon, and 
running), and management of gym/ﬁ  tness/
CrossFit ®  box/personal training centers, to place 
calls to a variety of SPN brand marketers and ask 
for evidence to support one or more of the claims 
associated with a speciﬁ  c SPN. Invariably, for 
those individuals that elected to perform claims 
due diligence—at least half did not follow 
through—they were both surprised and dismayed 
by the outcome, i.e., the absence of evidence to 
support any of the claims on the actual SPN. 
During the query, when the individuals pressed A.L. Almada

365
the company for the justiﬁ  cation of an absolute 
 lack  of independent evidence, these types of replies 
were most commonly offered:
•    “Clinical studies cost millions of dollars” 
[cost prohibitive].  
•   “We have a lot of consumers who think our 
product really works” [testimonial-centric 
validation of efﬁ  cacy].  
•   “We are planning to do some studies (at a later 
date)” [future promise of validation].  
•   “We don’t need to do studies—we  know   our 
product works” [self-afﬁ  rmation of efﬁ  cacy].    
 A perusal of the world’s leading website for 
SPNs, bodybuilding.com, or any print or digital 
magazine that features advertising and editorial 
about SPNs (e.g., bodybuilding, ﬁ  tness, cycling, 
triathlon, running, stand up paddle) yields a 
diverse surfeit of product claims, often couched 
in superlatives: “ultimate endurance formula,” 
“untouchable mass gains,” “preeminent pre- 
workout,” or “testosterone effects without the 
injection.” As editorial content strives to incor-
porate more scientiﬁ  c evidence, the adoption of 
scientiﬁ  c jargon in SPN claims maintains step 
and extends beyond the arbitrary reader compre-
hension limits set by editors. Gene expression, 
molecular signaling pathways and molecules, 
pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics, receptor 
and transporter expression and translocation, 
metabolomics, and even gut microbiomics have 
been woven into SPN claims. 
 Over 20 years ago, a seismic shift occurred in 
the United States regulatory (and claims) land-
scape for SPNs, the Dietary Supplement Health 
and Education Act of 1994 (DSHEA) [ 3 ], which 
works closely with the Federal Trade Commission 
(FTC). Eight years later, the European Food 
Safety Authority (EFSA) was birthed [ 4 ], fol-
lowed by a 2006 Regulation [ 5 ] that empowered 
EFSA to evaluate the scientiﬁ  c merit and autho-
rize/deny claims made for food products within 
the European community, including food sup-
plements and SPNs. In 2004, Health Canada 
annexed the Natural Health Products Act [ 6 ] to 
the 1985 Food and Drug Act [ 7 ], offering a claims authorization framework, which included 
monographed (“automatically allowed/ approved”) 
sport/performance nutrition ingredients with 
attendant strength/dosage and usage requirements. 
 These codiﬁ  ed rules empower and enable gov-
ernmental agencies to allow and restrict the 
claims for, and composition of, SPNs. A widely 
held and vociferously contested perception is that 
the global nutritional supplement industry (across 
the globe) is “unregulated” [ 7 – 10 ]. It is notable 
that the two main markets, North America and 
Europe, provide regulatory tools to police claims, 
yet sanctions on SPNs are as rare as full solar 
eclipses. Asserting that the claims for SPNs are 
“unregulated” is tantamount to stating that the 
highways, roads, and autobahns across the world 
have  no  speed limits. If speed cameras ﬁ  tted with 
facial recognition resolution lenses—linked to a 
remote system that issued stout ﬁ  nes—or police 
cars were present at every 0.5 km distance, driv-
ing above the speed limit would very likely be a 
very rare occurrence. Similarly, if enforcement 
resource allocations (staff, funding) were aug-
mented markedly, the SPN claims landscape 
would likely experience an ordering effect, 
abbreviating the entropic path that has been 
expanding since the advent of the progenitorial 
SPNs: desiccated liver and wheat germ oil.  
16.3     SPN Research “Innovations” 
 Despite the relative dearth of evidence-based 
SPNs, an incremental number of original research 
investigations have been emerging over the past 
two decades. The existence of even a single study 
on an SPN can be noteworthy and distinguishing, 
but the study design and associated rigor can 
delineate between a value-adding and (consumer) 
cash-subtracting SPN. 
16.3.1     Comparison Controls 
 One of the strongest categories (sales, product 
offerings) of SPNs is so-called “pre-workout” 
products. As the moniker implies, these SPNs are 16 Beyond the Obvious: Future Innovations in Sports Nutrition

366
intended to be ingested prior to a workout. The 
vast majority contains one or more stimulants—
with caffeine being axial—almost invariably 
accompanied by several additional “accessory” 
ingredients. Many such products invoke the 
descriptor “synergistic” yet are devoid of any of 
such evidence (see below). 
 If one is attempting to demonstrate the perfor-
mance enhancement potential of caffeine plus 
other bioactives, it would appear methodologi-
cally reasonable to compare the SPN to an equi-
molar dose of  caffeine alone   (a positive control), 
not only a wholly inert placebo control. However, 
many studies have not implemented a caffeine 
control and do not perform an unblinding assess-
ment after conclusion of the trial, to ascertain the 
efﬁ cacy of masking subjects to their research arm 
assignment [ 11 – 16 ]. Indeed, several blinded 
studies have revealed discrimination of acute caf-
feine doses and signiﬁ  cant stimulant responses, 
 as low as   30–50 mg [ 17 ,  18 ]. Moreover, the irra-
tional inclusion of ß-alanine (ß-Ala) in pre- 
workout SPNs (a nonprotein amino acid 
pioneered by Dr. Roger Harris), with a compel-
ling ergogenic evidence base, albeit  after a few to 
several weeks of multi-gram daily dosing   [ 19 ], 
introduces a potentially greater confounding/
unmasking element. ß-Ala elicits a temporary, 
dose-dependent, uncomfortable itching, “ﬂ  ush-
ing” response, through activation of a G protein- 
coupled itch receptor present in sensory neurons 
[ 20 ], the clinical presentation sometimes referred 
to as “paresthesia” [ 21 ]. Unmasking of subjects 
through a perceptible stimulant effect or itching 
has the potential to dramatically alter the out-
come of a study, while the  absence   of conditioned 
responses, e.g., stimulant/arousal or itch, may 
foster a fear-based neural response [ 22 ] with 
potentially  ergolytic   effects. 
 One of the reasons behind the preponderance 
of studies on pre-workout SPNs that lack a caf-
feine comparator is market/economic risk: if a 
company that markets SPNs (or energy drinks) 
sponsors an academic laboratory to undertake 
such a study, the likelihood of the data being 
made public (through presentation at a scientiﬁ  c 
conference and/or publication in a reviewed jour-
nal) is high. Thus, assuring a study outcome that is only favorable to an SPN is a critical element 
of protocol development for an SPN marketer to 
embrace. Drug studies often use a well-researched 
positive comparator against novel drugs, without 
an inert placebo control, thus obviating the argu-
ment that a three-group (pre-workout v. caffeine 
v. inert placebo) study would be economically 
untenable.  An innovation path for future SPNs 
would be the implementation of positive compar-
ator allocation arms and unmasking assessments 
performed in the early phase of a study, after 
treatment randomization and after the conclusion 
of a study.    
16.3.2     Acting on Interactions: 
Favorable or Unfavorable 
 As stated above, many SPNs are comprised of 
more than one ingredient, “cocktails” that may 
have in excess of thirty labeled, presumed “bio-
active” ingredients. In contradistinction, there is 
a nearly absolute lack of evidence exploring the 
interactions that follow ingestion, starting with 
bioavailability and pharmacokinetics. Protein- 
centric SPNs are exemplary, many combining 
two or more protein sources and asserting differ-
ent pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic pro-
ﬁ les, e.g., “slow” and “fast” proteins, derived 
from seminal studies conducted in subjects 
wherein  whole body  —not skeletal muscle—pro-
tein synthesis rate was assessed for 7 h postpran-
dially [ 23 ]. Notably, there do not appear to be any 
studies that have implemented  chronic   supple-
mentation, comparing isonitrogenous doses of 
differing “fast” and “slow” protein cocktails, and 
assessed changes in muscular performance and/
or regional and whole body composition in 
trained athletes. 
 The nonprotein, ß-amino acid,  l -carnitine, has 
been advocated as an SPN bioactive for over 
30 years. Internet searches yield many pages 
claiming  l -carnitine increases endurance, muscle 
mass gain, fat burning, and even promotion of 
body fat loss [ 24 – 26 ]. However, a review of the 
literature indicates the efﬁ  cacy of  l -carnitine 
in muscular performance is equivocal or non- 
efﬁ cacious and that supplementation does not A.L. Almada

367
effect reductions in fat mass or increases in muscle 
mass among athletes [ 27 – 29 ]. Additionally, a 
single intravenous dose of  l -carnitine, or chronic 
oral dosing, does not produce signiﬁ  cant 
increases in intramuscular  l -carnitine [ 27 ,  29 ]. 
Eight weeks of oral supplementation with 1 or 
3 g/day of a modiﬁ  ed form of  l -carnitine, glycine 
propionyl- l -carnitine (GlycoCarn ® , Sigma-Tau 
HealthScience, Inc.), also has been shown to 
have no impact on aerobic or anaerobic perfor-
mance, body fatness, or intramuscular  l -carnitine 
content [ 30 ]. 
 An elegant example of SPN innovation is 
illustrated by the systematic research and devel-
opment of a composition designed to increase 
intramuscular  l -carnitine content and elicit shifts 
in substrate utilization at both rest and exercise. 
Through a proof of principle study involving 
acute insulin and  l -carnitine infusion, Professor 
Paul Greenhaff and his colleagues demonstrated 
signiﬁ  cant increases in intramuscular carnitine 
[ 31 ]. This was followed by a demonstration of 
increased muscle glycogen and carnitine content 
and reduced intramuscular lactate and pyruvate 
dehydrogenase complex (PDC) at rest, after a 
similar insulin and carnitine infusion protocol 
[ 32 ]. These intramuscular changes are indicative 
of alterations in substrate selection, speciﬁ  cally 
reduced glycolytic ﬂ  ux and possibly increased 
fatty acid oxidation. 
 In a follow-up study, acute and short-term oral 
carbohydrate supplementation (Lucozade ® , 
GlaxoSmithKline; providing 94 g of sugars) with 
4.5 g of  l -carnitine  l -tartrate (Carnipure ® , Lonza 
AG) produced an apparent increase in whole 
body carnitine retention (as determined by 
reduced urinary carnitine excretion) compared to 
 l -carnitine supplementation alone [ 33 ]. This 
investigation was succeeded by a 24-week period 
of supplementing endurance-trained athletes 
with 2.0 g of  l -carnitine  l -tartrate (Carnipure ® , 
Lonza AG) combined with 80 g of a starch carbo-
hydrate (Vitargo ® , Swecarb) twice daily or the 
carbohydrate alone [ 34 ]. After 24 weeks, the car-
nitine + carbohydrate group displayed a 30 % 
greater muscle carnitine content than the carbo-
hydrate control. Muscle glycogen utilization dur-
ing a 30 min cycle ergometer bout at 50 % of maximal aerobic capacity (V O2max ) was 55 % less, 
and muscle lactate was signiﬁ  cantly lesser after a 
successive 30 min 80 % V O2max  bout, in the carni-
tine + carbohydrate group. When the subjects 
then performed an all out, 30 min cycling bout, 
35 % more work was done in the carnitine + car-
bohydrate group after 24 weeks of supplementa-
tion, compared to the carbohydrate control. 
 This compelling line of research, exploiting 
insulin-mediated increases in muscle carnitine, 
requires physiological hyperinsulinemia. As some 
individuals may not wish to ingest an additional 
160 g of a highly insulinemic carbohydrate [ 35 ] 
as was used above [ 34 ], Greenhaff and colleagues 
chose an acute dose mixture of 40 g of carbohy-
drate and 40 g of whey protein, or 80 g of carbo-
hydrate (Vitargo), consumed 1 h after ingestion 
of 3 g of  l -carnitine (containing 0.1 %  deuterated   
 l -carnitine) [ 36 ]. The well- characterized insulin-
emic response that follows dietary protein inges-
tion, especially with whey protein [ 37 ,  38 ], can 
allow for a reduction in carbohydrate content by 
fostering a hyperinsulinemic response sufﬁ  cient 
to activate muscle carnitine uptake. The use of 
the (stable) isotopically labeled carnitine permit-
ted the assessment of apparent muscle carnitine 
uptake when coupled with arteriovenous mea-
surements (across the forearm) of the tracer and 
unlabeled carnitine and blood ﬂ  ow [ 36 ]. The rate 
of carnitine disposal (presumably into skeletal 
muscle) was signiﬁ  cantly greater with the carbo-
hydrate drink compared to a ﬂ  avor-matched, 
noncaloric control. However, despite similar 
insulinemic responses with the carbohydrate and 
carbohydrate + whey drinks ( ≈4–5 times greater 
area under the curve (AUC) over 3 h, relative 
to placebo), carnitine disposal with carbohy-
drate + protein was no greater than the placebo 
drink, and both were signiﬁ  cantly less than the 
carbohydrate drink. Although the carnitine and 
drinks were not co-ingested, this suggests that 
whey protein antagonizes acute muscle carnitine 
uptake and/or promotes enteral or hepatic carni tine 
catabolism [ 38 ], when added to carbohydrate. 
 This research program, evolving since the 
early 2000s and still ongoing, resulted in patents 
and patent applications, a robust evidence base, 
revelation of a potential antagonistic interaction 16 Beyond the Obvious: Future Innovations in Sports Nutrition

368
that is highly relevant to SPN formulation, and a 
promising platform for SPN marketing and 
 medical nutrition applications. The major chal-
lenges associated with this innovation are the 
substantial calorie intakes and the protracted 
supplementation duration needed to achieve per-
formance enhancement. Although this program is 
time and resource intensive, future innovations in 
SPN could aspire to this methodical and sequen-
tial approach, while capturing intellectual prop-
erty and incremental SPN product innovations in 
the process, to secure a magniﬁ  ed and enduring 
return on investment.  
16.3.3     Misdirected: Indirect 
and Direct Measures 
 As the number of SPN scientiﬁ  c publications 
increases, budgetary constraints and method-
ological assumptions can reduce the quality of 
research produced. One example is illustrated by 
studies where inferences are made regarding 
muscle glycogen content, before, during, or after 
an intervention. Because of the costs associated 
with performing natural abundance  13 C nuclear 
magnetic resonance spectroscopy for glycogen 
quantitation [ 39 ], or muscle biopsies, and the 
associated challenges of obtaining ethical 
approval for multiple biopsies, muscle glycogen 
is routinely not measured. A cursory survey of 
recent studies (2014), wherein muscle glycogen 
and/or utilization was asserted to be altered or 
maintained, due to or in spite of diet and/or train-
ing alterations, respectively, reveals a common 
lack of glycogen measurements [ 40 – 43 ]. 
  Glycogen     The advent of a noninvasive, relatively 
low-cost method to quantify muscle glycogen, 
utilizing ultrasound technology (MuscleSound ® , 
MuscleSound, LLC), may usher in a greater 
number of studies employing direct assessment 
of muscle glycogen throughout the exercise/com-
petition cycle. It employs a portable device and 
cloud-based software. In a study funded by 
MuscleSound and led by the founder of the com-
pany, elite cyclists had muscle glycogen assessed 
before and after an intense bout of ergometer cycling [ 44 ]. The ultrasound value of muscle gly-
cogen change compared favorably to that 
obtained with muscle biopsies ( r  = 0.81). At the 
time of writing, no independent studies compar-
ing the method to muscle biopsy, or assessing 
muscle glycogen changes  during   (interrupted) 
exercise, have been published. With more rigor-
ous independent validation, in a large cross sec-
tion of athletes, genders, and metabolic extremes, 
e.g., McArdle’s disease or type 1 diabetics pursu-
ing a ketogenic diet, this innovation may prove 
invaluable to SPN innovation and validation.  
  Glycemic Index     The glycemic index (GI), ﬁ  rst 
described in 1981 by David Jenkins and col-
leagues [ 45 ], is a physiological measure of the 
change in blood glucose over a ﬁ  xed period of 
time (usually 2 h) after ingestion of a test food, 
supplement, or beverage, relative to an “indexed” 
carbohydrate, e.g., dextrose or white bread pro-
viding an equal amount of digestible carbohy-
drates (usually 50 g). Thus, a “high” GI test 
substance would produce a greater and/or longer 
increase in glycemia relative to a “low” GI test 
substance. 
 Almost two decades ago, the misperception 
began to emerge, inferring that high GI sub-
stances displayed faster gut transit/digestion/
absorption kinetics, while low GI substances pro-
vided slower kinetics, yet without direct evi-
dence. Indeed, postprandial blood glucose 
concentration is governed by three factors: (1) 
rate of appearance of glucose from the intestines, 
(2) rate of appearance of glucose via de novo glu-
coneogenesis, and (3) rate of disappearance/dis-
posal (primarily in skeletal muscle in nondiabetic, 
ﬁ t individuals). Not until 2003, in a study under-
taken by Simon Schenk (while a masters’ student 
in the laboratory of Dr. Eddie Coyle) were the 
kinetics of GI systematically addressed, in con-
ventional foods [ 46 ]. Using endurance-trained 
male athletes, Schenk et al., performed a cross-
over GI test with All-Bran ®  cereal (Kellogg 
Company), a “classical” low GI cereal [ 45 ], and 
Kellogg’s Corn Flakes ®  (Kellogg Company), a 
“classical” high GI cereal [ 45 ], coupled with a 
continuous infusion of a doubly labeled stable 
isotope of glucose: [6,6- 2 H 2 ]glucose. The isotope A.L. Almada

369
enabled the direct assessment of the rate of 
appearance (Ra) and rate of disappearance of glu-
cose (Rd) (in and from the blood, respectively). 
As was shown in 1981 [ 45 ], the bran cereal elic-
ited a low GI value, while the corn ﬂ  akes a high 
GI value (2.4 times higher). Counterintuitively, 
this was  not  due to a blunted Ra with the bran 
cereal—the Ra was identical to that of corn 
ﬂ akes—but to a signiﬁ  cantly greater Rd (bran 
cereal), via a  more rob ust early-phase insulin 
response   and subsequent glucose disposal (mus-
cle glycogen was not measured). 
 Had the isotopic method not been imple-
mented, a likely/common interpretation would 
have been that the bran “slowed” the rate of tran-
sit/digestion/absorption and thus produced a 
slower, lower GI, despite GI studies showing that 
ﬁ ber does not signiﬁ  cantly inﬂ  uence GI values 
[ 45 ,  47 ]. It is not uncommon for interventions 
with high GI substances to assert that they exhibit 
more rapid absorption, in the absence of any 
direct, supportive kinetic data [ 48 – 50 ].  
  Creatine “Bioavailability”     Like GI values, 
apparent absorption of creatine, indirectly 
inferred from blood concentration changes, can 
foster misguided interpretations. Several studies 
have demonstrated that apparent absorption of 
creatine after oral administration is around 
80–90+ % [ 51 ,  52 ]. A study with single oral dos-
ing of deuterated creatine in one subject revealed 
whole body uptake of 78 % [ 53 ]. More rigorous 
analysis, including fecal creatine and creatinine 
measurements, along with periodic urine collec-
tion, has shown apparent creatine absorption to 
approximate 100 %, with  trivial   conversion of 
creatine into creatinine [ 49 ] (signiﬁ  cant creatine 
to creatinine conversion is often asserted by some 
creatine-centric SPN marketers [ 54 ]). 
 Interpretation that a higher AUC and or peak 
concentration of blood creatine is indicative of 
greater creatine absorption, in the absence of 
muscle creatine assessments, can lead to a spuri-
ous interpretation. The ingestion of 5 g of cre-
atine monohydrate in a noncaloric solution or 
the same creatine solution followed 30 min later 
by a carbohydrate drink providing ≈ 92 g of sug-
ars (Lucozade), each consumed four times daily for 5 days, was assessed in 24 young males in 
Greenhaff’s laboratory [ 55 ]. Urinary creatine 
concentration (24 h collection) on day 1 of sup-
plementation was markedly increased in both 
treatment groups, but was 1.8 times higher in 
the creatine alone beverage. However, muscle 
total creatine after 5 days of supplementation 
with the creatine solution and delayed carbo-
hydrate drink  increased by an additional 60 %   
compared to the increment seen in the creatine 
solution alone. 
 In a companion study with similar design, 
ingestion of a creatine only solution produced a 
nearly twofold higher maximum plasma creatine 
concentration (C max ) and a 2.5 times greater AUC 
(over a 4.5 h period) compared to creatine co- 
ingested with a drink providing 92 g of sugars 
(Lucozade) [ 56 ]. Moreover, 24 h urinary creatine 
concentrations were ≈ twice as great in the cre-
atine only solution treatment. A  prima facie   
interpretation of this study is that more creatine 
was absorbed from the creatine only solution, 
based on notably higher blood and urine creatine 
concentrations. However, like blood glucose 
excursions seen in GI testing, increased blood 
creatine may also suggest reduced extraction or 
disposal by peripheral tissues, especially skeletal 
muscle, the major repository of creatine. As was 
evidenced in the previously described study [ 55 ], 
where muscle creatine concentration was mea-
sured via biopsy, muscle creatine content was 
dramatically greater, and urinary creatine was 
substantially lower with the creatine + carbohy-
drate drink relative to the creatine alone drink, 
the latter outcome also replicated in [ 56 ]. 
 Taken together, reduced blood and urinary cre-
atine values may indeed be indicative of compa-
rable or greater absorption and superior muscle/
whole body creatine retention, relative to higher 
blood and/or urinary creatine values [ 57 ]. Thus, 
studies comparing different creatine forms that 
assess blood concentrations and assign higher 
“bioavailability” or “absorption,” based on greater 
AUC and/or C max  values  alone  , lack merit [ 58 ]. 
 A compelling future for SPN innovations 
could be paved by a greater number of proof of 
principle and follow-up studies that implement 
direct assessments related to the presumed 16 Beyond the Obvious: Future Innovations in Sports Nutrition

370
beneﬁ  t(s) of the SPN in question. Moreover, 
resolution of the  actual   effects and metabolic 
impact of candidate SPNs may foster the evolu tion 
of more effective products for consumers. Even 
initial, SPN-relevant “ n  of 1” [ 59 ] studies that 
incorporate highly  objective   assessment tools can 
be potent, value-adding instruments to accelerate 
the innovation of safe and effective SPNs that 
ultimately enjoy a strong evidence base.    
16.4     Gut Reaction: Beyond a Tube 
Within a Tube 
 Classical textbook gastrointestinal physiology 
describes the gut as a system involved in the 
digestion, absorption, metabolism, and excretion 
of ingested materials, with an antimicrobial func-
tion (gastric acid) and a commensal microbial 
population—an inner “tube” within an outer 
“tube”—the extra-gastrointestinal compartment 
comprised of the systemic circulation and associ-
ated organs. Additionally, the major means in 
which the outer tube communicates back with the 
inner tube is via the enterohepatic circulation. 
The emergence of the gut microbiome—the 
microbial community and its associated genes 
residing within the human gut—as a functional, 
interactive “new” organ and focus of intense 
research [ 60 – 64 ], holds vast promise as a target 
for SPN innovations, inclusive of changes upon 
body composition. 
 Seminal work almost a decade ago began to 
reveal how common dietary elements can 
“imprint” human metabolism through the gut 
microbiome axis, with metabolic effects persist-
ing for weeks after cessation of the introduced 
dietary element [ 65 ]. Perhaps the most SPN 
innovation- relevant aspect of the gut microbiome 
is how high-protein diets can transform the 
microbial population [ 66 – 68 ]. While the impact 
of chronic high-protein, high-fat, or high- 
carbohydrate diets in athletes, upon the function 
of the gut microbiome, remains enigmatic, it har-
bors massive promise in relation to strategic 
selection of probiotic strains that can offset or 
complement the impact of long-term dietary 
discretions.  A tangent related to gut function and SPNs is 
the body of evidence forming around splanchnic 
hypoperfusion of intense exercise and its impact 
upon gut function, as advanced by Dr. Kaatje 
Lenaerts and colleagues in the Netherlands [ 69 ]. 
Resistance-trained subjects performing a bout of 
resistance exercise manifest acute impairments 
in enterocyte function, resulting in compromised 
apparent and actual absorption of amino acids 
derived from protein-consumed postexercise 
[ 70 ]. A study by this group suggested that high- 
dose (10 g) ingestion of the nonprotein amino 
acid  l -citrulline prior to endurance cycling pre-
served splanchnic perfusion [ 71 ], offering the 
enticing suggestion that pre-exercise  l -citrulline 
ingestion (or other nitric oxide synthase inﬂ  u-
encing bioactives) may augment postexercise 
protein digestion kinetics and muscle protein 
synthesis rates.  
16.5     SPN Bioactives: 
Manufacturing Shifts 
 The provision of adequate nutrition to the world’s 
population continues to ascend in prominence 
and import. Arguably, SPNs could be considered 
“luxury nutrition,” with their manufacturing sub-
ject to potential scrutiny, from both policy maker 
and stakeholder vantages. Relevant to SPNs that 
are manufactured in a ready to drink (RTD) for-
mat is a recent report by the World Economic 
Forum [ 72 ]. A survey conducted with over 700 
members that comprise the multistakeholders 
community described  water crises   among the top 
three highest concern risks. The global prolifera-
tion of RTDs and their associated bottling facili-
ties, all hyper-dependent on potable water 
supplies, may beget new innovations in capturing 
and purifying water, ranging from hyper-efﬁ  cient 
moisture collection systems to waste stream 
recapture from adjacent facilities, e.g., creation 
of a zero water dairy facility that reclaims water 
extracted from the creation of milk powder [ 73 ]. 
 Approximately one-third of human global 
protein consumption is derived from animal 
products [ 74 ] (including dairy proteins that are 
an axial component of many SPNs). The adaptive A.L. Almada

371
capacity of the dairy protein producing global 
consortium to meet the demand for dairy proteins 
used in SPNs (especially whey protein), in light 
of greenhouse gas and ozone hole concerns, 
water shortages, population shifts, and climate 
insults [ 75 ,  76 ], provides some intriguing oppor-
tunities for innovation. 
 Once a nascent subcategory, vegan-centric 
SPNs are gaining a signiﬁ  cant foothold among 
SPN consumers. Not surprisingly, there is a pau-
city of evidence supporting the chronic bioequiv-
alence of a commercially available, vegan protein 
SPN ﬁ  nished good against a dairy/animal com-
parator, i.e., increases in muscle/fat-free lean 
mass, performance-centric adaptations to train-
ing, or both. One recent study out of Dr. Jacob 
Wilson’s laboratory in Florida compared supple-
mentation with  high-dose   protein from rice pro-
tein concentrate (Growing Naturals Rice Protein 
Isolate with Oryzatein ®  rice protein, Axiom 
Foods) versus  high-dose   protein from whey pro-
tein isolate (NutraBio 100 % Whey Protein 
Isolate, NutraBio), each consumed after an 
8-week, hypertrophy-oriented resistance training 
program in resistance-trained individuals [ 77 ]. 
The high dose of protein was selected, in part, to 
deliver a higher leucine content, despite the 
absence of rigorous studies employing chronic 
supplementation with leucine or branched chain 
amino acids displaying increases in muscle mass 
[ 78 ,  79 ]. 
 The paper described both “48 g of whey (or 
rice) protein  isolate  ” and “48 g of protein in the 
form of whey (or rice) protein isolate,” the former 
delivering ≈ 42 g of protein. Irrespective of the 
quantity, based upon several studies in  young  , 
resistance-training males consuming whey pro-
tein isolate (WPI) after a bout of resistance train-
ing, the dose was excessive/high, as noted by the 
authors [ 77 ]. Indeed, two recent studies with WPI 
have shown that single or multiple post-workout 
doses of WPI in excess of 20 g (among resistance- 
trained males less than ≈ 90 kg) elicit signiﬁ  cant 
“wasting” of the protein excess, via amino acid 
oxidation and signiﬁ  cant urea production, with 
no greater muscle fractional synthesis rate 
(mFSR) [ 80 ,  81 ]. “Young” is emphasized, as a 
recent analysis of dietary protein dose-response pharmacodynamics (as mFSR) comparing 
younger (18–37 years) to older (65–80 years) 
males suggests that the meal protein dose for 
younger males be 0.24 g protein/kg body mass 
and 0.40 g/kg for older males (based on 3 meals/
day diet) [ 82 ]. 
 Collectively, given the voluminous array of 
protein-centric SPNs available throughout the 
globe, a suite of innovation foci emerge:
•    Development of RTDs that deliver their bioac-
tive payloads in a palatable manner, with less 
water volume  
•   Innovation of vegan protein cocktails less reli-
ant upon dairy proteins, which produce bio-
equivalent chronic outcomes in training 
athletes, e.g., a moderate dose pea + rice pro-
tein blend, enriched with select amino acids  
•   Introduction of evidence-based, protein- 
centric SPNs that target “silver” athletes/indi-
viduals engaged in intensive training programs 
and reversing or arresting age-related loss of 
muscle mass and function (sarcopenia)     
16.6     Conclusion 
 The market, industrial, climatic, regulatory, and 
media forces continue to shape the direction of 
the SPN industry. Ultimately, the end user/con-
sumer of any SPN is seeking a product that is safe 
and effective and (often) offers an enhancement 
over their current SPN or diet, beyond the offering 
of convenience. Remarkably, the vast majority of 
SPN marketers have sufﬁ  cient revenues to spon-
sor independent studies conducted by experienced 
research teams with expertise in the outcome 
measures being considered, i.e., reviewed publi-
cations of original research. The highly competi-
tive and increasingly regulatory body- enforced 
SPN landscape will continue to spur novelty and 
invention. What remains hopeful is the shift of the 
industry stakeholders to a greater allocation of 
revenues to innovation directives that result in the 
creation of evidence-based SPNs that offer both a 
competitive edge for the hyperopic, investing 
SPN company and SPN consumers.     16 Beyond the Obvious: Future Innovations in Sports Nutrition

372
   References 
    1.    Almada AL. Nutraceuticals and functional foods: 
aligning with the norm or preparing for the storm. In: 
Bagchi D, editor. Nutraceutical and functional food 
regulations in the United States and around the world. 
2nd ed. London: Academic Press; 2014. p. 3–11.  
    2.    Sackett DL, Rosenberg WMC, Gray JAM, Haynes 
RB, Richardson WS. Evidence based medicine: what 
it is and what it isn’t. BMJ. 1996;312:71–2.  
    3.   Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 
1994 Pub. L. No. 103–417, 108 Stat. 4325 (October 
25, 1994).  
    4 .      http://eurlex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?u
ri=CONSLEG:2002R0178:20090807:EN:HTML      
    5 .      http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/en/
ALL/?uri=CELEX:32006R1924      
    6 .      http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/regulations/SOR-
2003- 196/page-1.html      
     7.   Anon. Unregulated dietary supplements. 19 Sep 1998 
[cited 2014 Nov 14]   http://www.nytimes.com/1998/
09/19/opinion/unregulated-dietary- supplements.html      
   8.   Wallis L. The toxic truth about vitamin supplements: 
How health pills millions take with barely a second 
thought can do more harm than good 23 Aug 2010 
[cited 2014 Nov 15]   http://www.dailymail.co.uk/
health/article-1305534/The-toxic-truth-vitamin-
supplements- Health-pills-millions-barely-second-
thought- harm-good.html      
   9.   Anon. Sports nutrition sector hits back at “unregu-
lated” charge. 18 Feb 2013 [cited 2014 Nov 15]   http://
www.naturalproductsonline.co.uk/sports-nutrition-
sector-hits-back-at-unregulated- charge/      
    10.   Anon. Supplementing your supplements. 14 August 
2013 [cited 2014 Nov 15]   www.spoor.com/articles/
Supplementing_your_supplements-474.html      
    11.    Candow DG, Kleisinger AK, Grenier S, Dorsch 
KD. Effect of sugar-free Red Bull energy drink on 
high-intensity run time-to-exhaustion in young adults. 
J Strength Cond Res. 2009;23:1271–5.  
   12.    Spradley BD, Crowley KR, Tai CY , Kendall KL, 
Fukuda DH, Esposito EN, et al. Ingesting a pre- 
workout supplement containing caffeine, B-vitamins, 
amino acids, creatine, and beta-alanine before exer-
cise delays fatigue while improving reaction time and 
muscular endurance. Nutr Metab. 2012;9:28.  
   13.    Kendall KL, Moon JR, Fairman CM, Spradley BD, 
Tai CY , Falcone PH, et al. Ingesting a pre-workout 
supplement containing caffeine, creatine, beta- 
alanine, amino acids, and B-vitamins for 28 days is 
both safe and efﬁ  cacious in recreationally active men. 
Nutr Res. 2014;34:442–9.  
   14.    Gonzalez AM, Walsh AL, Ratamess NA, Kang J, 
Hoffman JR. Effect of a pre-workout energy supple-
ment on acute multi-joint resistance exercise. J Sports 
Sci Med. 2011;10:261–6.  
   15.    Fukuda DH, Smith AE, Kendall KL, Stout JR. The pos-
sible combinatory effects of acute consumption of 
caffeine, creatine, and amino acids on the improvement of anaerobic running performance in humans. Nutr 
Res. 2010;30:607–14.  
    16.   Lee J, Kim HT, Solares GJ, Kim K, Ding Z, Ivy JL. 
Caffeinated nitric oxide-releasing lozenge improves 
cycling time trial performance. Int J Sports Med. 
2015;36:107–12.  
    17.    Grifﬁ  ths RR, Evans SM, Heishman SJ, Preston KL, 
Sannerud CA, Wolf B, et al. Low-dose caffeine dis-
crimination in humans. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1990;
252:970–8.  
    18.    Childs E, de Wit H. Subjective, behavioral, and 
physiological effects of acute caffeine in light, non-
dependent caffeine users. Psychopharmacology 
(Berl). 2006;185:514–23.  
    19.    Hobson RM, Saunders B, Ball G, Harris RC, Sale C. 
Effects of ß-alanine supplementation on exercise per-
formance: a meta-analysis. Amino Acids. 2012;43:
25–37.  
    20.    Liu Q, Sikand P, Ma C, Tang Z, Han L, Li Z, et al. 
Mechanisms of itch evoked by ß-alanine. J Neurosci. 
2012;32:14532–7.  
    21.    Decombaz J, Beaumont M, Vuichoud J, Bouisset F, 
Stellingwerff T. Effect of slow-release ß-alanine tab-
lets on absorption kinetics and paresthesia. Amino 
Acids. 2012;43:67–76.  
    22.    Jensen KB, Kaptchuk TJ, Chen X, Kirsch I, Ingvar M, 
Gollub RL, et al. A neural mechanism for noncon-
scious activation of conditioned placebo and nocebo 
responses. Cereb Cortex. 2014. doi:  10.1093/cercor/
bhu275    .  
    23.    Boirie Y , Dangin M, Gachon P, Vasson MP, Maubois 
JL, Beaufrère B. Slow and fast dietary proteins differ-
ently modulate postprandial protein accretion. Proc 
Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1997;94:14930–5.  
    24.   Anon. L-Carnitine - Is it good or bad for your heart? 
Hammer Nutrition [cited 2014 Nov 21]; [about 3 
screens]. Available from:   http://www.hammernutri-
tion.com/knowledge/l-carnitine-is-it-good-or-bad-
for-your- heart.17139.html?sect=blog-section      
   25.   Lockridge R. 11 side effects of L-carnitine. 18 Oct 
2013 [cited 2014 Nov 21]   http://www.bodybuilding.
com/fun/11-super-side-effects-from-taking-l- 
carnitine.html      
    26.   Poliquin Group editorial staff. Top 12 reasons to use 
carnitine. 31 December 2011 [cited 2014 Nov 21] 
  http://www.poliquingroup.com/articlesmultimedia/
articles/article/767/top_12_reasons_to_use_carnitine.
aspx      
     27.    Brass EP. Carnitine and sports medicine: use or 
abuse? Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2004;1033:67–78.  
   28.    Karlic H, Lohninger A. Supplementation of L-carnitine 
in athletes: does it make sense? Nutrition. 2004;20:
709–15.  
     29.    Wächter S, V ogt M, Kreis R, Boesch C, Bigler P, 
Hoppeler H, et al. Long-term administration of 
L-carnitine to humans: effect on skeletal muscle car-
nitine content and physical performance. Clin Chim 
Acta. 2002;318:51–61.  
    30.    Smith WA, Fry AC, Tschume LC, Bloomer RJ. Effect 
of glycine propionyl-l-carnitine on aerobic and A.L. Almada

373
anaerobic exercise performance. Int J Sport Nutr 
Exerc Metab. 2008;18:19–36.  
    31.    Stephens FB, Constantin-Teodosiu D, Laithwaite D, 
Simpson EJ, Greenhaff PL. Insulin stimulates L-carnitine 
accumulation in human skeletal muscle. FASEB J. 
2005;20(2):377–9. doi:  10.1096/fj.05-4985fje    .  
    32.    Stephens FB, Constantin-Teodosiu D, Laithwaite D, 
Simpson EJ, Greenhaff PL. An acute increase in skel-
etal muscle carnitine content alters fuel metabolism in 
resting human skeletal muscle. J Clin Endocrinol 
Metab. 2006;91:5013–8.  
    33.    Stephens FB, Evans CE, Constantin-Teodosiu D, 
Greenhaff PL. Carbohydrate ingestion augments 
L-carnitine retention in humans. J Appl Physiol. 
2007;102:1065–70.  
     34.    Wall BT, Stephens FB, Constantin-Teodosiu D, 
Marimuthu K, Macdonald I, Greenhaff PL. Chronic 
oral ingestion of L-carnitine and carbohydrate 
increases muscle carnitine content and alters muscle 
fuel metabolism during exercise in humans. J Physiol. 
2011;589:963–73.  
    35.    Stephens FB, Roig M, Armstrong G, Greenhaff 
PL. Post-exercise ingestion of a unique, high molecu-
lar weight glucose polymer solution improves perfor-
mance during a subsequent bout of cycling exercise. J 
Sports Sci. 2008;26:149–54.  
     36.    Shannon C, Nixon A, Greenhaff P, Stephens F. Protein 
ingestion impairs insulin-stimulated net muscle 
carni tine uptake in healthy young men. FASEB J. 
2014;28:LB812.  
    37.    Pal S, Ellis V . The acute effects of four protein meals 
on insulin, glucose, appetite and energy intake in lean 
men. Br J Nutr. 2010;104:1241–8.  
     38.    Morifuji M, Ishizaka M, Baba S, Fukuda K, 
Matsumoto H, Koga J, et al. Comparison of different 
sources and degrees of hydrolysis of dietary protein: 
effect on plasma amino acids, dipeptides, and insulin 
responses in human subjects. J Agric Food Chem. 
2010;58:8788–97.  
   38.    Koeth RA, Wang Z, Levison BS, Buffa JA, Org E, 
Sheehy BT, et al. Intestinal microbiota metabolism of 
L-carnitine, a nutrient in red meat, promotes athero-
sclerosis. Nat Med. 2013;19:576–85.  
    39.    Avison MJ, Rothman DL, Nadel E, Shulman 
RG. Detection of human muscle glycogen by natural 
abundance  13 C NMR. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 
1988;85:1634–6.  
    40.    Raper JA, Love LK, Paterson DH, Peters SJ, 
Heigenhauser GJF, Kowalchuk JM. Effect of high-fat 
and high-carbohydrate diets on pulmonary O 2  uptake 
kinetics during the transition to moderate-intensity 
exercise. J Appl Physiol. 2014;117:1371–9.  
   41.   Hansen M, Bangsbo J, Jensen J, Bibby BM, Madsen 
K. Effect of whey protein hydrolysate on performance 
and recovery of top-class orienteering runners. Int J 
Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. Metab. 2015;25:97–109.  
   42.   Scott AT, O’Leary T, Walker S, Owen R. Improvement 
of 2000-m rowing performance with caffeinated 
carbohydrate-gel ingestion. Int J Sports Physiol Perf. 
2015;10:464–8.      43.   Helms ER, Zinn C, Rowlands DS, Naidooa R, Cronin 
J. High-protein low-fat short-term diet results in less 
stress and fatigue than moderate-protein moderate- fat 
diet during weight loss in male weightlifters, a pilot 
study. Int J Sport Nutr Exerc Metab. 2015;25:163–70.   
    44.    Hill JC, San MI. Validation of musculoskeletal ultra-
sound to assess and quantify muscle glycogen content. 
a novel approach. Phys Sportsmed. 2014;42:45–52.  
        45.    Jenkins DJA, Wolever TMS, Taylor RH, Barker H, 
Fielden H, Baldwin JM, et al. Glycemic index of 
foods: a physiological basis for carbohydrate 
exchange. Am J Clin Nutr. 1981;34:362–6.  
    46.    Schenk S, Davidson CJ, Zderic TW, Byerley LO, 
Coyle EF. Different glycemic indexes of breakfast 
cereals are not due to glucose entry into blood but to 
glucose removal by tissue. Am J Clin Nutr. 2003;
78:742–8.  
    47.    Jenkins DJA, Wolever TMS, Taylor RH, Barker HM, 
Fielden H, Gassull MA. Lack of effect of reﬁ  ning on 
the glycemic response to cereals. Diabetes Care. 
1981;4:509–13.  
    48.    Stevenson EJ, Thelwall PE, Thomas K, Smith F, 
Brand-Miller J, Trenell MI. Dietary glycemic index 
inﬂ uences lipid oxidation but not muscle or liver gly-
cogen oxidation during exercise. Am J Physiol 
Endocrinol Metab. 2009;296:E1140–7.  
    49.   Mondazzi L, Arcelli E. Glycemic index in sport nutri-
tion. J Am Coll Nutr. 2009;28Suppl:455S-63S.  
    50.    Roberts MD, Lockwood C, Dalbo VJ, V olek J, 
Kerksick CM. Ingestion of a high-molecular-weight 
hydrothermally modiﬁ  ed waxy maize starch alters 
metabolic responses to prolonged exercise in trained 
cyclists. Nutrition. 2011;27:659–65.  
    51.    Harris RC, Soderlund K, Hultman E. Elevation of cre-
atine in resting and exercised muscle of normal sub-
jects by creatine supplementation. Clin Sci. 1992;83:
367–74.  
    52.    Deldicque L, Decombaz J, Foncea HZ, Vuichoud J, 
Poortmans JR, Francaux M. Kinetics of creatine 
ingested as a food ingredient. Eur J Appl Physiol. 
2008;102:133–43.  
    53.    MacNeil L, Hill L, MacDonald D, Keefe L, Cormier 
JF, Burke DG, et al. Analysis of creatine, creatinine, 
creatine-d3 and creatinine-d3 in urine, plasma, and 
red blood cells by HPLC and GC-MS to follow the 
fate of ingested creatine-d3. J Chromatogr B. 2005;
827:210–5.  
    54.    Jagim AR, Oliver JM, Sanchez A, Galvan E, Fluckey 
J, Riechman S, et al. A buffered form of creatine does 
not promote greater changes in muscle creatine con-
tent, body composition, or training adaptations than 
creatine monohydrate. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2012;
9:43.  
     55.    Green AL, Hultman E, Macdonald IA, Sewell DA, 
Greenhaff PL. Carbohydrate ingestion augments skel-
etal muscle creatine accumulation during creatine 
supplementation in humans. Am J Physiol Endocrinol 
Metab. 1996;271:E821–6.  
     56.    Green AL, Simpson EJ, Littlewood JJ, Macdonald 
IA, Greenhaff PL. Carbohydrate ingestion augments 16 Beyond the Obvious: Future Innovations in Sports Nutrition

374
creatine retention during creatine feeding in humans. 
Acta Physiol Scand. 1996;158:195–202.  
    57.    Kerksick CM, Wilborn CD, Campbell WI, Harvey 
TM, Marcello BM, Roberts MD, et al. The effects of 
creatine monohydrate supplementation with and 
without D-pinitol on resistance training adaptations. 
J Strength Cond Res. 2009;23:2673–82.  
    58.   Miller DW. Oral bioavailability of creatine supple-
ments: Is there room for improvement? International 
Society of Sports Nutrition Annual Conference; 2009 
June 14–15; New Orleans, Louisiana.  
    59.    Rascol O, Ferreira J, Negre-Pages L, Perez-Lloret S, 
Lacomblez L, Galitzky M, et al. A proof-of-concept, 
randomized, placebo-controlled, multiple cross-overs 
(n-of-1) study of naftazone in Parkinson’s disease. 
Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2012;26:557–64.  
    60.    Gill SR, Pop M, DeBoy RT, Eckburg PB, Turnbaugh PJ, 
Samuel BS, et al. Metagenomic analysis of the human 
distal gut microbiome. Science. 2006;312:1355–9.  
   61.    The Human Microbiome Project Consortium. A 
framework for human microbiome research. Nature. 
2012;486:215–21.  
   62.    Turnbaugh PJ, Gordon JI. The core gut microbiome, 
energy balance and obesity. J Physiol. 2009;587:
4153–8.  
   63.    Greiner AK, Papineni RVL, Umar S. Chemoprevention 
in gastrointestinal physiology and disease. Natural 
products and microbiome. Am J Physiol Gastrointest 
Liver Physiol. 2014;307:G1–15.  
    64.    Ridaura VK, Faith JJ, Rey FE, Cheng J, Duncan AE, 
Kau AL, et al. Gut microbiota from twins discordant 
for obesity modulate metabolism in mice. Science. 
2013. doi:  10.1126/science.1241214    .  
    65.    Wang Y , Tang H, Nicholson JK, Hylands PJ, Sampson 
J, Holmes E. A metabonomic strategy for the detec-
tion of the metabolic effects of chamomile ( Matricaria 
recutita   L.) ingestion. J Agric Food Chem. 2005;53:
191–6.  
    66.    Liu X, Blouin JM, Santacruz A, Lan A, Andriamihaja 
M, Wilkanowicz S, et al. High-protein diet modiﬁ  es 
colonic microbiota and luminal environment but not 
colonocyte metabolism in the rat model: the increased 
luminal bulk connection. Am J Physiol Gastrointest 
Liver Physiol. 2014;307:G459–70.  
   67.    Scott KP, Gratz SW, Sheridan PO, Flint HJ, Duncan 
SH. The inﬂ  uence of diet on the gut microbiota. 
Pharmacol Res. 2013;69:52–60.  
    68.    Lan A, Andriamiha M, Blouin JM, Liu X, Descatoire 
V , Desclée de Maredsous C, et al. High-protein diet 
differently modiﬁ  es intestinal goblet cell characteris-
tics and mucosal cytokine expression in ileum and 
colon. J Nutr Biochem. 2015;26:91–8.  
    69.    van Wijck K, Lenaerts K, Grootjans J, Wijnands KAP, 
Poeze M, van Loon LJC, et al. Physiology and patho-
physiology of splanchnic hypoperfusion and intesti-
nal injury during exercise: strategies for evaluation and prevention. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver 
Physiol. 2012;303:G155–68.  
    70.    van Wijck K, Pennings B, van Bijnen AA, Senden 
JM, Buurman WA, Dejong CH, et al. Dietary protein 
digestion and absorption are impaired during acute 
postexercise recovery in young men. Am J Physiol 
Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2013;304:R356–61.  
    71.    van Wijck K, Wijnands KAP, Meesters DM, Boonen B, 
van Loon LJC, Buurman WA, et al. L-citrulline improves 
splanchnic perfusion and reduces gut injury during exer-
cise. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2014;46:2039–46.  
    72.   World Economic Forum. Global Risks 2014, 9 Ed. 
Geneva; 2013 Dec 30. 60 p.  
    73.   Weston S. Nestlé opens water-efﬁ  cient Cero Agua 
dairy factory in Mexico. 22 Oct 2014 [cited 2014 Dec 10] 
  http://www.foodbev.com/news/nestl-opens- water-
efﬁ cient-cero-agua-da#.VI3kQqYYt5x      
    74.    Popp A, Lotze-Campen H, Bodirsky B. Food con-
sumption, diet shifts and associated non-CO2 green-
house gases from agricultural production. Glob 
Environ Change. 2010;20:451–62.  
    75.    Bellarby J, Tirado R, Leip A, Weiss F, Lesschen JP, 
Smith P. Livestock greenhouse gas emissions and 
mitigation potential in Europe. Glob Chang Biol. 
2013;19:3–18.  
    76.   Robinson SA, Erickson DJ. Not just about sunburn – 
the ozone hole’s profound effect on climate has sig-
niﬁ cant implications for Southern Hemisphere 
ecosystems. Glob Chang Biol. 2015;21:515–27.  
     77.    Joy JM, Lowery RP, Wilson JM, Purpura M, De Souza 
EO, Wilson SMC, et al. The effects of 8 weeks of whey 
or rice protein supplementation on body composition 
and exercise performance. Nutr J. 2013;12:86.  
    78.    Crowe MJ, Weatherson JN, Bowden BF. Effects of 
dietary leucine supplementation on exercise perfor-
mance. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2006;97:664–72.  
    79.    Ispoglou T, King RF, Polman RC, Zanker C. Daily 
L-leucine supplementation in novice trainees during a 
12-week weight training program. Int J Sports Physiol 
Perform. 2011;6:38–50.  
    80.    Areta JL, Burke LM, Ross ML, Camera DM, West 
DWD, Broad EM, et al. Timing and distribution of 
protein ingestion during prolonged recovery from 
resistance exercise alters myoﬁ  brillar protein synthe-
sis. J Physiol. 2013;591:2319–31.  
    81.    Witard OC, Jackman SR, Breen L, Smith K, Selby A, 
Tipton KD. Myoﬁ  brillar muscle protein synthesis 
rates subsequent to a meal in response to increasing 
doses of whey protein at rest and after resistance exer-
cise. Am J Clin Nutr. 2014;99:86–95.  
    82.   Moore DR, Churchward-Venne TA, Witard O, Breen 
L, Burd NA, Tipton KD, et al. Protein ingestion to 
stimulate myoﬁ  brillar protein synthesis requires 
greater relative protein intakes in healthy older versus 
younger men. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 
2014;70:57–62.      A.L. Almada

375 © Springer International Publishing Switzerland 2015 
M. Greenwood et al. (eds.), Nutritional Supplements in Sports and Exercise , 
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-18230-8  A  
  AAKG.    See  Arginine-alpha-ketoglutarate (AAKG) 
   Absorbitol ®  , 172  
   Acarbose , 355  
   3-Acetyl-7-oxo dehydroepiandrosterone.    See  7-Keto ®  
   Achievement goal theory , 27, 31–32, 41  
   ACSM.    See  American College of Sports Medicine 
(ACSM) 
   Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) , 224–225, 288, 332  
   Adequate intake (AI) , 78  
 elements , 81–82  
 vitamins , 79–80  
   Adonis Complex , 32–33  
   Adverse Event Reporting (AER) legislation , 14  
   Advertisement , 16–19  
   Alcohol , 355  
   Alpha linolenic acid (ALA) , 130  
   Alzheimer’s disease 
  Ginkgo biloba   extract , 37, 38, 42  
 O3FA , 39, 42  
   American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) 
 creatinine supplementation , 114, 115  
 electrolyte replacement , 111  
 ﬂ uid intake, recommendations for , 116  
 ﬂ uid replacement programs , 280  
 guidelines for exercise , 95, 109  
 maintaining ﬂ  uid levels, guidelines for , 116–117  
 rehydration sodium , 278  
   American Medical Association (AMA) , 11, 14  
   Amino acids (AA) , 64–65, 128–129, 132  
    Amorphophallus konjac    ,  179  
   Anabolic–androgenic steroids (AAS) , 26, 141  
   Anabolic hormone enhancers 
 application , 144–145  
 human growth hormone (GH) 
 arginine supplementation , 142–143  
  l -arginine supplementation , 143  
 exercise and melatonin supplementation , 143–144  
 negative implications , 142  
 physiological beneﬁ  ts of , 142  
 insulin-like growth factor 1 , 144  
 testosterone 
 AAS , 141  
 deﬁ nition of , 141   tribulus terrestris , 142  
 ZMA supplementation , 141–142  
   Anabolic Steroid Control Act 
 of 1990 , 11–12  
 of 2004 , 12–13  
 DASCA , 13–14  
   Anaerobic working capacity (AWC) , 225  
   Androstenediol , 9  
   Androstenedione , 7–9  
   Anti-catabolic supplements 
 application , 147  
 glutamine , 145–146  
 HMB , 146–147  
 KIC , 147  
   Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) , 279  
   Antioxidants 
 beneﬁ  t of , 240  
 CoQ10 , 240  
 GlycoCarn ®  , 240  
 research ﬁ  ndings/recommendations , 245  
 ROS , 239  
 theoretical ergogenic value , 245  
 vitamin C , 239–240  
 vitamin E , 239  
   Arginine-alpha-ketoglutarate (AAKG) , 148  
 aromatase inhibitors , 233–234, 245  
 growth hormone , 232  
 liver dysfunction , 232  
 NO 2  , 232  
 pharmacokinetics, safety, and efﬁ  cacy , 232  
 1RM bench press , 232  
 Wingate peak power performance , 232  
 ZMA , 234–235, 245  
   Aromatase inhibitors (AIs) , 145, 233–234, 245  
   Ascorbic acid , 78, 83, 86, 239–240, 291  
   Attention-deﬁ  cit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) , 39  
   Autonomic neuropathy , 349, 350  
    B  
  Balance theory , 27, 31, 41  
   Basal-bolus insulin therapy , 348  
   BCAAs.    See  Branched-chain amino acids  ( BCAAs) 
   Beta blockers , 355                        Index 

376
   Biotin , 79, 80, 83, 85  
   Bitter orange 
 green tea and guarana, combination of , 165  
 herbal weight loss preparation, effect of , 164–165  
 Lean System 7 , 165  
 multi-ingredient weight loss product , 165–166  
 octopamine , 163, 164  
 St. John’s wort and caffeine, combination of , 164  
 synephrine , 163–164  
   Blue-green algae , 15–16  
   Body dysmorphic disorders , 32–33  
   Boron , 92, 98, 294  
   Branched-chain amino acids  ( BCAAs) 
 endurance athletes , 262–263  
 KIC , 147  
 leucine , 295  
 MCD , 334  
 MPS , 202  
 strength and power athletes , 228–229  
   Brindleberry.    See Garcinia cambogia   
    C  
  Caffeine 
 bitter orange and St. John’s wort, combination of , 164  
 and carbohydrate ingestion , 204  
 in coffee , 167  
 cognitive performance , 34  
 and CrM , 200, 213  
 for endurance athletes , 263–264  
 and ephedrine , 160–163, 202–203  
 in foods and beverages , 167  
 and green tea , 166–167  
 hydration, effects on , 114  
 neuromuscular function, improvements in , 35  
 Parkinson’s disease , 35  
 as psychological ergogenic , 34  
 psychomotor coordination, improvements in , 35  
 sensorimotor performance, effect on , 34  
 SPN , 368  
 state of arousal , 34–35  
 strength and power athletes , 243–244, 246  
 sustained attention and vigilance , 34  
 thermogenic ingredients, combination with , 167  
 timing of , 218–219  
   Calcitonin , 90  
   Calcium , 90, 91, 93, 176–177  
    Camellia sinensis    ,  166  
   Capsaicin , 167–168  
   Carbohydrate drinks , 113–114, 369, 371  
   Carbohydrates 
 daily intake of , 71, 72  
 disaccharides , 65  
 functions , 65  
 GI and GL values , 66, 67  
 lactate accumulation , 332  
 MCD , 333–334  
 monosaccharides , 65  
 muscle glycogen, manipulation of 
 acute low-carbohydrate diet , 338–339   chronic low-carbohydrate diet , 340–341  
 nutrient timing , 72–73  
 polysaccharides , 65–66  
 power/HIIT , 336–338  
 pre- and intra-exercise carbohydrate 
supplementation , 341  
 resistance exercise   ( see  Resistance training (RT)) 
   Cardiovascular disease , 86, 349–350, 354  
    l -Carnitine , 292–293, 372  
   Casein protein , 129–130, 136, 149, 209, 229, 262  
   Catechins , 166–167  
   CEAA.    See  Conditionally essential amino acids (CEAA) 
   Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (CFSAN) , 4  
   CGM.    See  Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) 
   Chitosan , 172–173  
   Chloride , 81, 82, 91, 94–95, 283  
   Chlorogenic acid (CGA) , 170–171  
   Cholesterol , 66, 67, 97, 180, 354  
   Chorba, David , 279–281  
   Chorba, Rita , 281–283  
   Chromium , 81, 82, 92, 97, 294  
   Chromium picolinate (CrP) , 171–172  
   CH-19 Sweet pepper , 167–168  
   Citrilean™ , 173  
   Citrimax™ , 173  
    Citrus aurantium  .    See  Bitter orange 
   CLA.    See  Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) 
   Coconut water , 115–116  
   Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) , 240  
   Coffee Slender ®  , 170, 171  
   Colostrum , 144, 268–269  
   Conditionally essential amino acids (CEAA) , 64, 65, 
128, 293  
   Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) , 174–176, 241–242, 
246, 287  
   Conjugated proteins , 64  
   Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) , 348–349  
   Controlled Substances Act , 11, 14  
   Copper , 81, 82, 92, 98, 131  
   Coronary heart disease (CHD) , 67  
   Creatine (Cr) , 53  
 accumulation , 190  
 application , 140  
 beneﬁ  ts of , 136  
 CrM   ( see  Creatine monohydrate (CrM)) 
 cyclic loading protocol , 138  
 diabetes and gyrate atrophy , 188  
 dosing protocol , 138  
 endurance athletes , 265–266  
 ﬂ uid balance , 114–115  
 Huntington’s disease , 36–37, 42  
 IGF-1 , 144  
 lean body mass 
 effects on , 138–139  
 physiological mechanisms , 139–140  
 recovery supplements , 287–289  
 satellite cell activity , 140  
 strength and power athletes 
 ATP , 225  
 AWC , 225  Index

377
 daily supplementation , 226  
 high-intensity exercise , 227  
 phosphocreatine (PC) , 224–225  
 research ﬁ  ndings/recommendations , 245  
 resistance-training programs , 226, 227  
 1RM , 225, 227  
 strength training , 226  
 theoretical ergogenic value , 245  
 TBI , 35–36, 42  
 vegetarian and vegan diets , 132–133  
   Creatine ethyl ester (CEE) , 194  
   Creatine monohydrate (CrM) 
 beneﬁ  ts of , 204–205  
 chronic adaptations , 190  
 Cr salt 
 CEE , 194  
 CPY  , 193, 194  
 CrM don plasma Cr concentrations , 194  
 ketoisocaproate , 193  
 maleate , 193  
 muscle Cr concentrations , 195–198  
 orotate , 193  
 PEG , 194  
 pharmacokinetics , 194  
 synergistic effect , 193  
 TCC , 193, 194  
 effects of , 190  
 insulin mimickers , 192–193  
 loading phase , 136, 138  
 macronutrients 
 CHO , 190–192  
 PRO , 191–192  
 PRO–CHO supplement 
 amino acids , 209  
 bench press strength , 207  
 HMB and β-alanine , 208–209  
 lean body mass (LBM) , 206, 207  
 source of , 209  
 supplement timing , 209  
 treatment with , 206  
   Creatine pyruvate (CPY) , 193, 194  
   Creatine transporter (CrT) , 287  
   CrM.    See  Creatine monohydrate (CrM) 
   Cunningham equation , 69–70, 72  
   Current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMPs) , 10–11  
    Cyamopsis tetragonolobus    ,  179  
   Cyanocobalamin , 83, 86  
    D  
  Dehydration , 108–109, 112, 264  
   Dehydrogenation , 68  
   De Lorenzo equation , 70  
   Dementia , 37–39  
   Designer Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 2014 
(DASCA) , 13–14  
   Diabetes mellitus 
 cause of , 345–346  
 glycogen loading , 356  
 physical activity   ( see  Physical activity)  regular exercise , 346  
 type 1 
 beta blockers , 355  
 exercise and physical training , 346  
 resistance exercise , 352  
 type 2 
 aerobic exercise , 346  
 beta blockers , 355  
 hypoglycemia , 347  
 insulin resistance , 346  
 prevalence , 346  
 prevention of , 354  
 SGLT-2 inhibitors , 356  
   Dietary reference intakes (DRIs) 
 categories , 78  
 elements , 81–82  
 vitamins , 79–80  
   Dietary Supplement and Nonprescription Drug 
Consumer Protection Act , 14  
   Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 
(DSHEA) , 3–4, 25  
   Diet pills , 32  
   Dihydroxyacetone (DHA) , 168–170  
   1,3-Dimethylamylamine, methylhexanamine (DMAA) , 7  
   Disaccharides , 65  
   Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) , 39  
    E  
  EAAs.    See  Essential amino acids (EAAs) 
   EAH.    See  Exercise-associated hyponatremia (EAH) 
   Eating disorders , 32  
   EGb.    See Ginkgo biloba   extract (EGb) 
   Egg protein , 131  
   Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) , 39  
   Electrolyte balance , 276, 277, 279, 283  
   Elsinore Pill , 161  
   Endurance athletes 
 conduction and convection , 256  
 diet 
 breakfast , 359  
 dinner , 360  
 post-workout (within 60 min) , 359  
 post-workout meal (lunch) , 360  
 presleep snack , 360  
 snack , 360  
 snack (1 h pre-workout) , 359  
 during workout , 359  
 disadvantage , 256  
 evaporation , 256  
 immune system 
 carbohydrate and protein , 268  
 colostrum , 268–269  
 glutamine , 269–270  
 POMS , 267–268  
 macro- and micronutrient-dense foods , 256  
 muscle glycogen , 256–257, 260  
 practical applications , 270–271  
 radiation , 256  
 resistance training , 256  Index

378
 Endurance athletes ( cont.) 
 supplements for 
 BCAAs , 262–263  
 caffeine , 263–264  
 carbohydrate–protein beverage , 259–260  
 convenience supplements , 258  
 creatine , 265–266  
 cyclists , 259  
 GES , 259  
 glucose concentrations , 259  
 glycemic index foods/supplements , 257–258, 261  
 glycerol , 264–265  
 glycogen synthase activation , 260  
 LCGP , 261  
 muscle insulin sensitivity , 261, 262  
 nitrates/nitrites , 266–267  
 nutrient composition, sports drink , 260  
 phosphates , 266  
 post-exercise nutrition , 260  
 sodium intake , 259  
   Ephedra 
 adverse event, risk of , 161  
 caffeine and aspirin, combination with , 161–163  
 Elsinore Pill , 161  
  Ephedra sinica    ,  161  
 FDA, prohibition of , 7, 161  
 guarana/kola nuts, combination with , 162  
 short-term beneﬁ  ts , 161  
    Ephedra sinica    ,  161  
   Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) , 166  
   Essential amino acids (EAAs) , 64, 65, 128–129, 132, 
134, 295  
   Essential fatty acids , 68, 241, 246  
   Estimated average requirement (EAR) , 78  
   1,4,6-Etioallocholan-dione , 9  
   Exercise-associated hyponatremia (EAH) 
 dilutional hyponatremia , 281  
 electrolyte-containing sports drinks , 282  
 excessive ADH , 281  
 factors , 281  
 incidence and severity , 282  
 prevention , 282  
 pulmonary and cerebral edema , 282  
 risk of , 282  
 sodium dilution , 282, 283  
 sodium loss , 281  
   Exercise energy expenditure , 69, 70  
   Extracellular ﬂ  uid (ECF) , 106, 112, 283  
    F  
  Fats 
 animal products , 68  
 daily intake of , 71, 72  
 LDL and HDL , 67  
 linoleic and linolenic fatty acids , 68  
 lipids 
 phospholipids , 66  
 sterols , 66  
 triglycerides , 66–67   nutrient timing , 73  
 polyunsaturated fats , 68  
 trans fatty acids , 68  
   Fat-soluble vitamins 
 vitamin A , 86–87  
 vitamin D , 87–88  
 vitamin E , 87–89  
 vitamin K , 87, 89  
   FDA.    See  Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
   Federal Trade Commission (FTC) , 4  
 advertising and substantiation policy , 17–19  
 SPNs , 367  
   Federal Trade Commission Act , 17  
   Flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) , 84  
   Flavin mononucleotide (FMN) , 84  
   Fluid balance 
 ACSM guidelines , 116–117  
 in American football players , 279–281  
 caffeine , 114  
 carbohydrate drinks and exercise performance , 
113–114  
 coconut water , 115–116  
 creatine , 114–115  
 deﬁ nition of , 106  
 electrolyte replacement , 111–112  
 exercise and hydration requirements 
 dehydration , 108–109  
 ﬂ uid intake after exercise , 111, 116  
 ﬂ uid intake during exercise , 110–111, 116  
 heat balance/storage , 108  
 pre-exercise water/ﬂ  uid intake , 110, 116  
 ﬂ uid intake, sources of , 106–107  
 glycerol , 112–113  
 hyponatremia , 112  
 water 
 body water percent , 105–106  
 dietary reference intake values , 106  
 metabolic water , 106, 107  
 physiological functions , 106  
 water losses , 107–108  
   Fluoride , 81, 82, 92, 98  
   Folic acid , 29, 83, 85  
   Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
 adulterated products, provisions for , 4–5  
 advertising and substantiation policy , 16–19  
 AER legislation , 14  
 Anabolic Steroid Control Act 
 of 1990 , 11–12  
 of 2004 , 12–13  
 DASCA , 13–14  
 androstenedione, prohibition of , 7–9  
 animal and human safety studies , 16  
 blue-green algae , 15–16  
 CFSAN and ODS , 4  
 claims and compliance guidelines , 17  
 contaminated supplements and banned ingredients 
 cGMPs , 10–11  
 hydrochlorothiazide , 10  
 IOC study , 10  
 nandrolone metabolites , 9–10  Index

379
 oxilofrine , 10  
 Relax-Aid , 10  
 Controlled Substances Act , 11  
 distortion of law , 3–4  
 DMAA products, prohibition of , 7  
 DSHEA , 3–4  
 ephedrine alkaloids, prohibition of , 7, 161  
 new dietary ingredient , 5–6  
 performance-enhancing substances , 11  
 piracetam and ATD, prohibition of , 9  
 steroid abuse , 11  
   Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) , 3  
    G  
   Garcinia cambogia    ,  173–174  
   GCBE.    See  Green coffee bean extract (GCBE) 
   Generally recognized as safe (GRAS) , 8  
    Ginkgo biloba   extract (EGb) , 37–38, 41, 42  
   Glucomannan , 179  
   Glucose transporter proteins (GLUT4) , 193  
   Glutamine , 145–146, 150  
 endurance athletes , 269–270  
 exercise-associated suppression , 293  
 muscle damage repair , 296  
 strength and power athletes , 236, 246  
   Glutathione peroxidase (GPx) , 291  
   Glycemic index (GI) , 66, 67  
   Glycemic load (GL) , 66, 67  
   Glycerol , 112–113, 264–265, 279  
   Glycine propionyl- l -carnitine (GlycoCarn ® ) , 240  
   Glycogen depletion , 338  
   Glycogen supercompensation , 285–286  
   Green coffee bean extract (GCBE) , 170–171  
   Green tea , 166–167  
   Guarana , 161, 162, 264  
   Guar gum , 179–180  
    H  
  Harris–Benedict equation , 69–70, 72  
   Healing Foods Pyramid 2010 , 58  
   Health and Human Services (HHS) , 4, 14  
   Healthy Eating Plate , 57  
   Heat storage (HS) , 108  
   Hepatotoxin , 15–16  
   Heritage Diet Pyramids , 58  
   High-density lipoproteins (HDLs) , 67, 287  
   High-intensity intermittent training (HIIT) , 336–338, 342  
   High-viscous polysaccharide (HVP) , 179  
   Human growth hormone (GH) , 150  
 arginine supplementation , 142–143  
  l -arginine supplementation , 143  
 exercise and melatonin supplementation , 143–144  
 negative implications , 142  
 physiological beneﬁ  ts of , 142  
   Huntington’s disease (HD) , 36–37  
   Hydrochlorothiazide , 10  
   β-Hydroxy- β-methylbutyrate (HMB) , 146–147, 
237–239, 246     Hydroxycitric acid (HCA) , 173–174  
   Hydroxycut™ , 161  
   Hyperlipidemia , 354  
   Hypertension , 35, 350, 354  
   Hyponatremia , 95, 112, 281–283  
    I  
  Insulin , 97, 133–134, 192–193, 202, 261–262  
   Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) , 
126, 144, 150  
   International Olympic Committee (IOC) , 10  
   Intracellular ﬂ  uid (ICF) , 106, 283  
   Intramuscular triglyceride (IMTG) , 335  
   Iodine , 81, 82, 92, 98  
   Iron , 81, 82, 95–96  
   Iron deﬁ  ciency , 95–96, 317  
   Isoﬂ avone phytoestrogens , 130  
   Isometric knee extension strength , 229  
    K  
  7-Keto ®  , 6  
   3,17-Keto-etiochol-triene , 9  
   α-Ketoisocaproic acid (KIC) , 147  
    Kre-Alkalyn   ®  , 194  
    L  
  Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) , 237  
   Lacto-ovo vegetarians , 96, 132  
   Lacto-vegetarians , 96  
   Lean System 7 , 165  
   Lemon laws , 16  
   Linoleic acid , 68  
   Linolenic acid , 68  
   Lipid peroxidation , 88, 290  
   Lipids , 66–67, 315, 334  
   Long chain glucose polymer (LCGP) , 261  
   Low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) , 67, 354  
    M  
  Macrominerals.    See  Minerals 
   Macronutrients 
 calorie intake , 69–70, 72  
 carbohydrates 
 daily intake of , 71, 72  
 dietary recommendations , 306  
 disaccharides , 65  
 feeding and exercise performance , 307  
 functions , 65  
 GI and GL values , 66, 67  
 monosaccharides , 65  
 nutrient timing , 72–73  
 polysaccharides , 65–66  
 postexercise ingestion , 308  
 practice of , 306  
 preexercise ingestion , 308  
 CHO , 190–192  Index

380
 Macronutrients ( cont.) 
 fats 
 animal products , 68  
 daily intake of , 71, 72  
 LDL and HDL , 67  
 linoleic and linolenic fatty acids , 68  
 lipids , 66–67  
 nutrient timing , 73, 312–316  
 polyunsaturated fats , 68  
 trans fatty acids , 68  
 metabolic usage , 68–69  
 muscle protein synthesis 
 anabolic window , 312  
 BCAAs , 310  
 cortisol levels , 311  
 resistance exercise , 310, 312  
 resistance training performance , 310, 311  
 nutritional design , 63–64  
 PRO , 191–192  
 proteins 
 and carbohydrate, combination of , 308–310  
 complete proteins , 65  
 daily intake of , 71, 72  
 EAA, CEAA, and NEAA , 64–65  
 incomplete proteins , 65  
 nonstructural proteins , 64  
 nutrient timing , 73  
 simple/conjugated proteins , 64  
 skeletal muscle hypertrophy, role in , 64  
 structural and regulatory roles , 64  
   Magnesium , 29, 81, 82, 91, 93–94, 98  
   Manganese , 81, 82, 92, 98  
   McArdle’s disease (MCD) , 333–334, 342, 370  
   Mediterranean Diet Pyramid , 58  
   Medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) , 168, 286–287  
   Melatonin , 143–144  
   Menaquinones , 89  
   Metabolic syndrome , 346, 354  
   Metabolife-356 ®  , 162  
   Metamucil ®  , 180  
   Methasterone , 13  
    Microcystis aeruginosa    ,  15  
   Microminerals.    See  Minerals 
   Micronutrients 
 adequate immune function , 77  
 body tissues, protection of , 77  
 bone health, maintenance of , 77  
 energy metabolism, process of , 77  
 fat-soluble vitamins , 79–80  
 vitamin A , 86–87  
 vitamin D , 87–88  
 vitamin E , 87–89  
 vitamin K , 87, 89  
 hemoglobin synthesis , 77  
 minerals   ( see  Minerals) 
 nutrient timing , 313, 317–318  
 practical application , 99  
 vegetarian diet , 96–97  
 water-soluble vitamins , 79–80  
 biotin , 83, 85  
 folic acid , 83, 85   niacin , 83–85  
 pantothenic acid , 83, 85  
 riboﬂ  avin , 83, 84  
 thiamin , 78, 83, 84  
 vitamin B 6  , 83, 85  
 vitamin B 12  , 83, 86  
 vitamin C , 83, 86  
   Minerals , 81–82  
 boron , 92, 98  
 calcium , 90, 91, 93  
 chromium , 92, 97  
 copper , 92, 98  
 ﬂ uoride , 92, 98  
 iodine , 92, 98  
 iron , 95–96  
 magnesium , 91, 93–94  
 manganese , 92, 98  
 molybdenum , 92, 98  
 phosphorus , 91, 93  
 potassium , 91, 94  
 selenium , 92, 98  
 sodium and chloride , 91, 94–95  
 sulfur , 91, 94  
 vanadium , 92, 98  
 zinc , 91, 97  
   Molybdenum , 81, 82, 92, 98  
   Monosaccharides , 65  
   MPB.    See  Muscle protein breakdown (MPB) 
   MPS.    See  Muscle protein synthesis (MPS) 
   Muscle dissatisfaction , 33  
   Muscle dysmorphia , 27, 33  
   Muscle fuel energy , 277  
 carbohydrate , 284–285  
 creatine , 287–289  
 glycogen supercompensation , 285–286  
 lipids , 286–287  
 protein , 286  
  d -ribose , 289  
 sustained postexercise glycogen storage , 285  
   Muscle hypertrophy , 149–150  
 anabolic hormone enhancers   ( see  Anabolic hormone 
enhancers) 
 anti-catabolic supplements 
 application , 147  
 glutamine , 145–146  
 HMB , 146–147  
 KIC , 147  
 aromatase inhibitors , 145  
 creatine supplementation   ( see  Creatine (Cr)) 
 dietary considerations 
 combined carbohydrate-protein supplements , 134  
 EAAs , 134  
 insulin , 133–134  
 muscle protein synthesis and breakdown , 133  
 genetics , 125–126  
 lean body mass , 124  
 net protein balance , 124–125  
 nitric oxide boosters 
 AAKG supplement , 148  
 application , 149  
 arginine supplementation , 147–148  Index

381
  l -arginine supplementation , 148  
  l -citrulline-malate supplementation , 148  
  l -citrulline supplementation , 148  
 physiology , 147  
 nutrient timing 
 post-workout nutrient intake , 135–137  
 pre-workout nutrient intake , 135  
 recommendation for , 136  
 protein supplements 
 application , 133  
 balanced meal-based approach , 127  
 casein protein , 129–130  
 conditionally essential amino acids , 128  
 egg protein , 131  
 essential amino acids , 128–129, 132  
 high-quality protein intake , 127–128  
 nonessential amino acids , 128  
 RDA value , 127  
 soy protein , 130–131  
 vegetarian and vegan diets , 131–133  
 whey protein , 129  
   Muscle protein breakdown (MPB) , 201, 311  
 glutamine , 146  
 HMB supplementation , 146–147  
 KIC , 147  
 oxidative stress , 290  
   Muscle protein synthesis (MPS) , 125, 310, 311  
 amino acids , 133  
 carbohydrate–protein combination supplementation , 134  
 IGF-1 , 144, 145  
 leucine , 295  
 PRO–CHO supplementation 
 resistance exercise , 201  
 supplement timing , 202–203  
 soy protein , 130  
 whey protein , 129  
   Myonuclear domain theory , 140  
   Myophosphorylase , 333, 334  
   MyPlate Food Guide , 57  
    N  
  Nandrolone , 9–10  
   NEAA.    See  Nonessential amino acids (NEAA) 
   Nephropathy , 351  
   Net protein balance (NPB) , 124–125, 201  
   New dietary ingredient (NDI) 
 androstenedione, prohibition of , 7–8  
 animal and human safety studies , 6  
 applications, rejection/failure rate of , 6  
 deﬁ nition of , 5  
 draft guidance , 5–6  
 exemption criteria , 5  
 premarket notiﬁ  cation process , 6  
 product information, submission of , 5  
   Niacin , 79, 80, 83–85  
   Nitric oxide (NO) boosters , 150  
 AAKG supplement , 148  
 application , 149  
 arginine supplementation , 147–148    l -arginine supplementation , 148  
  l -citrulline-malate supplementation , 148  
  l -citrulline supplementation , 148  
 physiology , 147  
   Nitro-Tech™ , 9–10  
   Nonessential amino acids (NEAA) , 64–65, 128, 132, 227  
   Nonesteriﬁ  ed fatty acids (NEFA) , 165  
   Non-nutrient timing , 318–320  
   Nonvitamin, nonmineral supplements (NVNM) , 25–28  
   Norandrostenedion , 9  
   19-Norandrosterone , 10  
   NORM diet , 340  
   Nutrient density 
 deﬁ nition , 52  
 nutrient-dense diet 
 caloric intake needs , 54–55  
 foundational food group categories , 52–53  
 nutritional timing , 56–57  
 role of supplements , 53–54  
 sports drink, orange juice and water , 52  
   Nutrient timing , 56–57, 72–73  
 glycogen resynthesis , 306  
 macronutrient , 312–316  
 meal frequency , 322  
 micronutrient , 313, 317–318  
 muscle hypertrophy 
 post-workout nutrient intake , 135–137  
 pre-workout nutrient intake , 135  
 recommendation for , 136  
 non-nutrient , 318–320  
 physiological and metabolic adaptations , 306  
 practical applications , 324–325  
 protein patterns , 323  
 time of day considerations , 320–321  
   Nutritional supplements 
 anabolic hormone enhancers   ( see  Anabolic hormone 
enhancers) 
 deﬁ nition , 53  
 for endurance athletes   ( see  Endurance athletes) 
 macronutrient proﬁ  les 
 endurance enhancement , 55–56  
 weight gain and muscle growth , 56  
 meal plan and menu , 61  
 added sugar in foods , 58  
 dietary guidelines , 57–58  
 ﬁ nal meal plan , 60  
 food group distributions , 59  
 macronutrients, distribution of , 59  
 nutrient database software , 58–59  
 nutrient timing and food combinations , 60, 61  
 micronutrients   ( see  Micronutrients) 
 nutrient-dense diet   ( see  Nutrient density) 
 for recovery   ( see  Recovery supplements) 
 SPNs   ( see  Sports/performance nutritionals (SPNs)) 
 sport/exercise supplements   ( see  Sport/exercise 
supplements) 
 for strength and power athletes   ( see  Strength and 
power athletes) 
 supplement combinations   ( see  Supplement combinations) 
 for weight loss   ( see  Weight loss nutritional supplements) Index

382
    O  
  Obesity , 160, 354  
   O f ﬁ ce of Dietary Supplements (ODS) , 4  
   Omega-3 fatty acids (O3FA) , 39–40, 42–43, 297  
   One repetition maximum (1RM) , 225, 227, 335  
   Operant conditioning , 27, 29  
   Ovo-vegetarians , 96  
   Oxidative stress , 277  
  l -carnitine , 292–293  
 cellular signaling , 290  
 CLA , 287  
 creatine , 226  
 exercise training , 289  
 free radicals , 290  
 glutamine , 296  
 glutathione , 290  
 impaired cellular function , 290  
 muscle protein breakdown , 290  
 O3FA , 39, 40  
 oxidation–reduction reaction , 290, 291  
 peroxides and free radicals , 289  
 reactive oxygen species , 290  
 selenium , 92  
 vitamins C and E , 87, 88, 239, 291–292  
   Oxilofrine , 10  
    P  
  Pantothenic acid , 79, 80, 83, 85  
   Parathyroid hormone (PTH) , 87, 90, 93, 176, 317  
   Parkinson’s disease (PD) , 35  
   Pellagra , 84  
   Performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) , 11, 24  
   Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) , 351  
   Peripheral neuropathy (PN) , 350  
    Phaseolus vulgaris  .    See  White kidney beans 
   Phosphocreatine–creatine (PCr–Cr) system , 188, 189  
   Phospholipids , 66, 93  
   Phosphorus , 81, 82, 87, 91, 93, 98  
   Phylloquinones , 89  
   Physical activity 
 drugs interaction 
 acarbose , 355  
 alcohol , 355  
 beta blockers , 355  
 DPP-4 inhibitors , 355  
 GLP-1 agonists , 355  
 SGLT-2 inhibitors , 356  
 sulfonylureas , 355  
 endurance athletes (track, soccer) 
 breakfast , 359  
 dinner , 360  
 post-workout (within 60 min) , 359  
 post-workout meal (lunch) , 360  
 presleep snack , 360  
 snack , 360  
 snack (1 h pre-workout) , 359  
 during workout , 359   glucose levels, regulation 
 hypoglycemia , 347–348  
 insulin therapy , 348  
 glycemic control effect , 346–347  
 individuals exercise capacity , 346  
 macronutrients intake for   ( see  Macronutrients) 
 meal timeline 
 postexercise nutrition , 359  
 pre-workout nutrition , 358  
 during workout nutrition , 359  
 medical evaluation, before exercise 
 autonomic neuropathy , 350  
 cardiovascular disease , 349–350  
 nephropathy , 351  
 PAD , 351  
 peripheral neuropathy , 350  
 retinopathy , 351  
 nutrition applications 
 carbohydrate counting , 358  
 carbohydrates interaction , 357–358  
 low-  vs.  high-glycemic carbohydrates , 356–357  
 timing of carbohydrates , 358–359  
 power/skill athletes (baseball, powerlifting) 
 breakfast (3 h pre-workout) , 360  
 dinner , 360  
 post-workout (within 60 min) , 360  
 post-workout meal (lunch) , 360  
 presleep snack , 361  
 snack , 360  
 snack (1 h pre-workout) , 360  
 during workout , 360  
 prescription 
 aerobic-type activities , 352  
 endurance-type exercise , 352  
 frequency of , 353  
 hyperlipidemia , 354  
 hypertension , 354  
 intensity and duration , 353  
 myocardial function , 354  
 resistance-type exercise , 352  
 time of day , 353  
 type 2 diabetes prevention , 354  
 proper warm-up and cooldown period , 351–352  
 scuba diving , 354–355  
 swimming , 354  
 unanticipated hypoglycemia , 349  
   Physical working capacity at fatigue threshold 
(PWCFT) , 230  
   Piracetam , 9  
    Plantago   
  P . ovata    ,  180  
  P . psyllium    ,  180  
   Polysaccharides , 65–66  
   Polyunsaturated fats , 67, 68  
   Potassium , 81, 82, 91, 94, 112  
   Product Master File , 16  
   Proﬁ le of mood state (POMS) , 267–268  
   Prohormones , 12, 13  Index

383
   Proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) , 351  
   Prostanozol , 13  
   Prosteroids , 12  
   Proteins 
 complete proteins , 65  
 daily intake of , 71, 72  
 EAA, CEAA, and NEAA , 64–65  
 incomplete proteins , 65  
 muscle hypertrophy, supplements for   ( see  Muscle 
hypertrophy) 
 nonstructural proteins , 64  
 nutrient timing , 73  
 simple/conjugated proteins , 64  
 skeletal muscle hypertrophy, role in , 64  
 structural and regulatory roles , 64  
   Psyllium , 180  
   Pyruvate (PYR) , 168–170  
    R  
  Rating of perceived exertion (RPE) , 94, 204  
   Reactive oxygen species (ROS) , 239, 246, 289, 290, 293  
   Recommended daily allowance (RDA) , 127  
   Recommended dietary allowance (RDA) , 78, 266  
 elements , 81–82  
 vitamins , 79–80  
   Recovery supplements 
 creatine , 287–289  
 electrolyte balance , 277, 283  
 energy reserves, replenishment of   ( see  Muscle fuel 
energy) 
 exercise , 275–276  
 immune system support , 277, 293–294  
 muscle damage repair , 277  
 carbohydrate and protein intake , 295–296  
 glutamine , 296  
 hormonal milieu , 294  
 leucine and muscle protein synthesis , 295  
 protein and amino acid intake , 294–295  
 resistance exercise training , 294  
 oral rehydration   ( see  Rehydration) 
 oxidative stress   ( see  Oxidative stress) 
 phase of recovery , 276  
 strength and power athletes 
 antioxidants   ( see  Antioxidants) 
 glutamine , 236, 246  
 HMB , 237–239, 246  
   Rehydration 
 carbohydrate–electrolyte solutions , 278–279  
 EAH   ( see  Exercise-associated hyponatremia (EAH)) 
 ﬂ uid balance, American football players , 279–281  
 ﬂ uid loss , 277  
 glycerol , 279  
 water and sodium , 278  
   Relax-Aid , 10  
   Resistance training (RT) , 125  
 acute diet and exercise treatments , 336  
 bouts , 336  
 casein , 130   egg protein , 131  
 experimental data , 335  
 glucose and lipid oxidation , 334  
 glutamine , 146  
 IMTG , 335  
 insulin , 133  
 muscle biopsies , 335, 336  
 muscle glycogen utilization , 335, 336  
 plasma free fatty acids (FFA) , 335  
 program , 335  
 1RM , 335, 336  
 whey protein , 129  
   Resting energy expenditure (REE) , 310  
 capsaicin , 167–168  
 ephedrine and caffeine , 163  
   Resting metabolic rate (RMR) , 69–70, 165  
   Retinol activity equivalents (RAE) , 86  
   Retinopathy , 351  
   Reverse anorexia , 33  
   Riboﬂ  avin , 83, 84  
    d -Ribose , 289  
   ROS.    See  Reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
   R T .     See  Resistance training (RT) 
   Russian tarragon (RT) , 193, 195  
    S  
  Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) , 37  
   Second wind phenomenon , 333, 334  
   Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) , 39  
   Selenium , 81, 82, 92, 98  
   Social physique anxiety , 27, 32, 41  
   Sodium , 91, 94–95  
   Sodium chloride , 91, 94–95  
   Sodium glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT-2) 
inhibitors , 356  
   Soy protein , 130–131, 149–150  
   Spirulina , 15  
   SPNs.    See  Sports/performance nutritionals (SPNs) 
   Sport/exercise supplements 
 biobehavioral effects of 
 AAS abuse , 33–34  
 caffeine , 34–35, 42  
 creatine , 35–37, 42  
  Ginkgo biloba   extract , 37–38, 41, 42  
 O3FA , 39–40, 42–43  
 St. John’s wort , 38–39, 41, 42  
 dietary supplements, deﬁ  nition of , 25–26  
 herbals/supplements, use of , 26–28  
 motivational theories , 27  
 achievement goal theory , 31–32, 41  
 Adonis Complex , 32–33  
 balance theory , 31, 41  
 eating disorders , 32  
 operant conditioning , 29  
 persuasion and conformity , 29–30  
 social physique anxiety , 32  
 theory of planned behavior , 30–31, 41  
 vitamin/mineral supplement use , 26, 28, 29  Index

384
   Sports/performance nutritionals (SPNs) 
 animal products , 372–373  
 claims entropy , 366–367  
 gut reaction , 372  
 indirect and direct measures 
 creatine bioavailability , 371–372  
 glycemic index , 370–371  
 glycogen , 370  
 innovations 
 “bioactive” ingredients , 368  
 carbohydrate supplementation , 369  
  l -carnitine , 368–369  
 muscle glycogen utilization , 369  
 “pre-workout” products , 367–368  
 luxury nutrition , 372  
 vegan protein , 373  
 whey protein isolate , 373  
   Stanozolol , 11  
   Sterols , 66  
   St. John’s wort (SJW) , 38–39, 41, 42  
   Strength and power athletes 
 AAKG   ( see  Arginine-alpha-ketoglutarate (AAKG)) 
 carnosine/ β-alanine , 230–231, 245  
 creatine 
 ATP and AWC , 225  
 daily supplementation , 226  
 high-intensity exercise , 227  
 phosphocreatine (PC) , 224–225  
 research ﬁ  ndings/recommendations , 245  
 resistance-training programs , 226, 227  
 1RM , 225, 227  
 strength training , 226  
 theoretical ergogenic value , 245  
 energy and enhanced workouts 
 caffeine , 243–244, 246  
 carbohydrate , 242–243, 246  
 immune function 
 CLA , 241–242, 246  
 vitamins and minerals , 241, 246  
 intense training and superior nutrition , 224  
 nutrition habits , 224  
 protein and amino acids , 227–230, 245  
 recovery supplements 
 antioxidants   ( see  Antioxidants) 
 glutamine , 236, 246  
 HMB , 237–239, 246  
 supplement needs , 224  
   Substantiation , 16–19  
   Sulfonylureas , 355  
   Sulfur , 91, 94  
   Superoxide dismutase (SOD) , 291  
   Supplement combinations 
 aerobic/anaerobic performance 
 β-alanine supplementation , 210–212  
 caffeine , 203, 204  
 CrM beneﬁ  ts , 204–205  
 ephedrine , 203, 204  
 delicious combination , 205–206  
 MPB , 201   MPS 
 resistance exercise , 201  
 supplement timing , 202–203  
 muscle glycogen, promotion of 
 during exercise , 199  
 post-exercise refueling , 199–201  
 pre-exercise , 198–199  
 synthesis and restoration of , 195  
 NPB , 201  
 PCr–Cr system , 188, 189  
    T  
  Testosterone , 150  
 AAS , 141  
 androstenedione , 8  
 deﬁ nition of , 141  
 tribulus terrestris , 142  
 ZMA supplementation , 141–142  
   Tetrahydrogestrinone (THG) , 12  
   Theory of planned behavior (TPB) , 27, 30–31, 41  
   Thermogenesis , 69, 70  
   Thiamin , 78, 83, 84  
   Thiamine monophosphate (TMP) , 78  
   Thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) , 78, 84  
   Thiamine triphosphate (TTP) , 78  
   Total energy expenditure (TEE) , 69–70  
   TPB.    See  Theory of planned behavior (TPB) 
   Trace elements.    See  Minerals 
   Trans fatty acids , 68  
   Traumatic brain injury (TBI) 
 creatine , 35–36  
 O3FA , 39–40  
   Tribulus terrestris (TT) , 141, 142, 144  
   Tricreatine citrate (TCC) , 194  
   Triglycerides , 66–67, 356  
    U  
  Ultimate Thermogenic Fuel™ , 164  
   Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) , 356  
    V  
  Vanadium , 92, 98  
   Vegans , 96, 98, 132  
   Vegetarian diet 
 classiﬁ  cation of , 96  
 EAA , 65  
 health beneﬁ  ts , 96  
 micronutrients, food sources of , 96, 97  
 protein sources 
 carbohydrates , 131, 132  
 creatine supplementation , 132–133  
 plant-based proteins , 131–132  
   Vicodin , 12  
   Vitamin A , 79, 80, 86–87  
   Vitamin B 6  , 79, 80, 83, 85, 141  
   Vitamin B 12  , 79, 80, 83, 86  Index

385
   Vitamin C , 29, 79, 80, 83, 86, 239–240  
   Vitamin D , 29, 79, 80, 87–88  
   Vitamin E , 29, 79, 80, 87–89, 239  
   Vitamin H , 83, 85  
   Vitamin K , 79, 80, 87, 89  
    W  
  Water 
 body water percent , 105–106  
 dietary reference intake values , 106  
 metabolic water , 106, 107  
 physiological functions , 106  
 water losses , 107–108  
   Water-soluble vitamins 
 biotin , 83, 85  
 folic acid , 83, 85  
 niacin , 83–85  
 pantothenic acid , 83, 85  
 riboﬂ  avin , 83, 84  
 thiamin , 78, 83, 84  
 vitamin B 6  , 83, 85  
 vitamin B 12  , 83, 86  
 vitamin C , 83, 86  
   Weight loss nutritional supplements , 26  
 bitter orange   ( see  Bitter orange) 
 caffeine 
 in coffee , 167  
 and ephedrine , 160–163   in foods and beverages , 167  
 and green tea , 166–167  
 thermogenic ingredients, combination with , 167  
 calcium , 176–177  
 capsaicin , 167–168  
 chitosan , 172–173  
 chromium picolinate , 171–172  
 CLA isomers , 174–176  
 dietary supplements , 180  
  Garcinia cambogia    ,  173–174  
 GCBE, chlorogenic acid in , 170–171  
 glucomannan , 179  
 guar gum , 179–180  
 obesity , 160  
 over-the-counter (OTC) , 160  
 psyllium , 180  
 PYR and DHA, combination of , 168–170  
 white kidney beans , 177–179  
   Whey protein , 10, 126, 129, 229, 260, 269  
   Whey protein isolate (WPI) , 129, 229, 314, 323, 373  
   White kidney bean extract (WKBE) , 178–179  
   White kidney beans , 177–179  
   Winstrol , 11  
   World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) , 356  
    Z  
  Zinc , 29, 81, 82, 91, 97  
   Zinc magnesium aspartate (ZMA) , 141–142, 234–235, 246         Index