SPORTSNUTRITION
Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
7950_C000.fm  Page i  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
7950_C000.fm  Page ii  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

CRC Press is an imprint of the
Taylor & Francis Group, an informa  businessBoca Raton   London   New YorkSPORTSNUTRITION
Energy Metabolism and Exercise
EDITED BY
IRA WOLINSKY
JUDY A. DRISKELL 
7950_C000.fm  Page iii  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

CRC Press
Taylor & Francis Group6000 Broken Sound Parkway NW, Suite 300Boca Raton, FL 33487-2742
© 2008 by Taylor & Francis Group, LLC 
CRC Press is an imprint of Taylor & Francis Group, an Informa business
No claim to original U.S. Government works
Printed in the United States of America on acid-free paper10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
International Standard Book Number-13: 978-0-8493-7950-5 (Hardcover)This book contains information obtained from authentic and highly regarded sources. Reprinted 
material is quoted with permission, and sources are indicated. A wide variety of references are listed. Reasonable eﬀorts have been made to publish reliable data and information, but the author and the publisher cannot assume responsibility for the validity of all materials or for the conse-quences of their use. 
N o  part  o f  this  boo k  ma y  be  r e p rin ted,  r e p r od u ced,  trans mi tted,  o r  u tilized  in  an y  f o rm  b y  an y  
electronic, mechanical, or other means, now known or hereafter invented, including photocopying, microﬁlming, and recording, or in any information storage or retrieval system, without written permission from the publishers.
For permission to photocopy or use material electronically from this work, please access www.
copyright.com (http://www.copyright.com/) or contact the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc. (CCC) 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, 978-750-8400. CCC is a not-for-proﬁt organization that provides licenses and registration for a variety of users. For organizations that have been granted a photocopy license by the CCC, a separate system of payment has been arranged.
Trademark Notice:  Product or corporate names may be trademarks or registered trademarks, and 
are used only for identiﬁcation and explanation without intent to infringe.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Sports nutrition : energy metabolism and exercise / editors, Ira Wolinsky and 
Judy A. Driskell.
p. ; cm.
“A CRC title.”
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-0-8493-7950-5 (alk. paper)
1.  Energy metabolism. 2.  Exercise.  I. Wolinsky, Ira. II. Driskell, Judy A. (Judy 
Anne)
[DNLM: 1.  Energy Metabolism--physiology. 2.  Nutrition Physiology. 3. Sports 
Medicine.  QU 125 S764 2008]
QP176.S69 2008
612.3’9--dc22 2007017738
Visit the Taylor & Francis Web site at
http://www.taylorandfrancis.com
and the CRC Press Web site at
http:/ /www.crcpress.com 
7950_C000.fm  Page iv  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
Dedication 
We appreciate the opportunity to have worked with the 
chapter authors, experts all, on this book and on our other 
books in the area of sports nutrition. We learned from them 
and dedicate this book to them. 
7950_C000.fm  Page v  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
7950_C000.fm  Page vi  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
Contents 
Chapter 1  
Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism ........................1 
Barry Braun and Benjamin F . Miller 
SECTION 1 
Energy-Yielding Nutrients 
Chapter 2  
Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production..........................25 
J. Andrew Doyle, Charilaos Papadopoulos, and Michael S. Green  
Chapter 3  
Utilization of Fats in Energy Production ..........................................47 
Serge P . von Duvillard, Jena Hamra, G. William Lyerly, Jonathan A. Moore, and J. 
Larry Durstine  
Chapter 4  
Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism ..................................63 
Mauro G. Di Pasquale  
SECTION 2 
Estimation of Energy Requirements 
Chapter 5  
Laboratory Methods for Determining Energy Expenditure of Athletes ........................................................................................127 
Robert G. McMurray and Kristin S. Ondrak  
Chapter 6  
Field Assessment of Physical Activity and Energy Expenditure among Athletes............................................................159 
Kelley K. Pettee, Catrine Tudor-Locke, and Barbara E. Ainsworth 
SECTION 3 
Physiological Aspects of Energy 
Metabolism 
Chapter 7  
Inﬂuence of Dietary Fiber on Body Weight Regulation .................193 
Daniel D. Gallaher  
7950_C000.fm  Page vii  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
Chapter 8  
Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences 
in Energy Metabolism......................................................................209 
A.C. Maher and Mark A. Tarnopolsky  
Chapter 9  
Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs...................................241 
Melinda M. Manore and Janice L. Thompson  
Index 
......................................................................................................................261 
7950_C000.fm  Page viii  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
Preface 
Over recent years, in a close and fruitful collaboration, we have put together a
number of books in the area of sports nutrition. During this period we have seen aburgeoning of interest in the area, namely: increased research, new journals, newcourses at universities, new professional groups and, of course, new publicationssuch as this one. In this book on energy metabolism and exercise we provide thereader in-depth exploration of important topics that will be of interest to health andnutrition professionals of all walks, as well as the well informed and motivatedlayman. What is clear from this book and others we have edited is that there mustbe a range of diets and exercise regimens that will support excellent physicalcondition and performance. There is not a single diet–exercise treatment that can bethe common denominator, and no single formula for health or performance panacea.
Companions to this book are other volumes we edited: Sports Nutrition: Vitamins
and Trace Elements, second edition; Nutritional Ergogenic Aids; Nutritional Assess-ment of Athletes; Nutritional Applications in Exercise and Sport; Energy-YieldingMacronutrients and Energy Metabolism in Sports Nutrition; Macroelements, Water,and Electrolytes in Sports Nutrition. Additionally useful will be the third edition ofNutrition in Exercise and Sport, edited by Ira Wolinsky, and Sports Nutrition,authored by Judy Driskell. Enjoy. 
Ira Wolinsky, Ph.D. 
Professor Emeritus
University of Houston 
Judy A. Driskell, Ph.D., R.D. 
Professor
University of Nebraska 
7950_C000.fm  Page ix  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
7950_C000.fm  Page x  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
The Editors 
Ira Wolinsky, Ph.D., 
 is professor emeritus of Nutri-
tion at the University of Houston. He received his B.S.
degree in chemistry from the City College of NewYork and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in biochemistryfrom the University of Kansas. He has served inresearch and teaching positions at the Hebrew Uni-versity, the University of Missouri, and The Pennsyl-vania State University, and has conducted basicresearch in NASA life sciences facilities and abroad.
Dr. Wolinsky is a member of the American Society
for Nutrition, among other honorary and scientiﬁcorganizations. He has contributed numerous nutritionresearch papers in the open literature. His majorresearch interests relate to the nutrition of bone andcalcium and trace elements and to sports nutrition. He has been the recipient ofresearch grants from both public and private sources and has been the recipient ofseveral international research fellowships and consultantships to the former SovietUnion, Bulgaria, Hungary, and India. He merited a Fulbright Senior Scholar Fellow-ship to Greece in 1999.
Dr. Wolinsky has co-authored a book on the history of the science of nutrition, 
Nutrition and Nutritional Diseases 
. He co-edited  
Sports Nutrition: Vitamins and
Trace Elements 
, ﬁrst and second editions;  
Macroelements, Water, and Electrolytes
in Sports Nutrition 
;  
Energy-Yielding Macronutrients and Energy Metabolism in
Sports Nutrition 
;  
Nutritional Applications in Exercise and Sport 
,  
Nutritional Assess-
ment of Athletes 
,  
Nutritional Ergogenic Aids 
, and the current book  
Sports Nutrition:
Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
, all with Judy Driskell. Additionally, he co-edited 
Nutritional Concerns of Women 
, two editions, with Dorothy Klimis-Zacas;  
The
Mediterranean Diet: Constituents and Health Promotion 
 with his Greek colleagues;
and  
Nutrition in Pharmacy Practice 
 with Louis Williams. He edited three editions
of  
Nutrition in Exercise and Sport 
. He served also as the editor, or co-editor, for the
CRC Series on Nutrition in Exercise and Sport, the CRC Series on Modern Nutrition,the CRC Series on Methods in Nutritional Research, and the CRC Series on ExercisePhysiology. 
 
7950_C000.fm  Page xi  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
Judy Anne Driskell, Ph.D., R.D. 
 is professor of
nutrition and health sciences at the University of
Nebraska. She received her B.S. degree in biology fromthe University of Southern Mississippi in Hattiesburg,and her M.S. and Ph.D. degrees were obtained fromPurdue University. She has served in research andteaching positions at Auburn University, Florida StateUniversity, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and StateUniversity, and the University of Nebraska. She hasalso served as the nutrition scientist for the U.S.
Department of Agriculture/Cooperative State
Research Service and as a professor of nutrition andfood science at Gadjah Mada and Bogor Universitiesin Indonesia.
Dr. Driskell is a member of numerous profes-
sional organizations including the American Societyfor Nutrition, the American College of Sports Medicine, the International Societyof Sports Nutrition, the Institute of Food Technologists, and the American DieteticAssociation. In 1993 she received the Professional Scientist Award of the FoodScience and Human Nutrition Section of the Southern Association of AgriculturalScientists. In addition, she was the 1987 recipient of the Borden Award for Researchin Applied Fundamental Knowledge of Human Nutrition. She is listed as an expertin B-complex vitamins by the Vitamin Nutrition Information Service. 
Dr. Driskell co-edited the CRC books  
Sports Nutrition: Minerals and Electrolytes 
with Constance V . Kies. In addition, she authored the textbook  
Sports Nutrition 
 and
co-authored an advanced nutrition book,  
Nutrition: Chemistry and Biology 
, both pub-
lished by CRC. She co-edited  
Sports Nutrition: Vitamins and Trace Elements 
, ﬁrst and
second editions;  
Macroelements; Water, and Electrolytes in Sports Nutrition 
;  
Energy-
Yielding Macronutrients and Energy Metabolism in Sports Nutrition 
;  
Nutritional Appli-
cations in Exercise and Sport 
,  
Nutritional Assessment of Athletes 
,  
Nutritional Ergo-
genic Aids 
, and the current book  
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
,
all with Ira Wolinsky. She has published more than 150 refereed research articles and13 book chapters as well as several publications intended for lay audiences and hasgiven numerous presentations to professional and lay groups. Her current researchinterests center around vitamin metabolism and requirements, including the interrela-tionships between exercise and water-soluble vitamin requirements.
 
7950_C000.fm  Page xii  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
Contributors 
Barbara E. Ainsworth, 
Ph.D., M.P.H., F.A.C.S.M.  
Department of Exercise and WellnessArizona State UniversityMesa, Arizona 
Barry Braun, Ph.D.  
Department of KinesiologyUniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, Massachusetts 
Mauro Di Pasquale, M.D.  
CEO, MetabolicDiet.com & 
MDNCC.com 
Cobourg, Ontario 
J. Andrew Doyle, Ph.D.  
Department of Kinesiology and HealthGeorgia State UniversityAtlanta, Georgia 
Judy A. Driskell, Ph.D., R.D.  
Department of Nutrition and Health 
Sciences
University of NebraskaLincoln, Nebraska 
J. Larry Durstine, Ph.D., F.A.C.S.M., F.A.A.C.V .P.R.  
Department of Exercise ScienceUniversity of South Carolina
Columbia, South Carolina 
Daniel D. Gallaher, Ph.D.  
Department of Food Science and 
Nutrition
University of Minnesota
St. Paul, Minnesota 
Michael S. Green, M.S. 
Department of Kinesiology and HealthGeorgia State UniversityAtlanta, Georgia 
Jena G. Hamra, Ph.D. 
Department of Biological and 
Environmental Sciences
Texas A&M University–CommerceCommerce, Texas 
G. William Lyerly, M.S., C.S.C.S., H.F.I., E.S. 
Department of Exercise ScienceUniversity of South CarolinaColumbia, South Carolina 
Amy C. Maher, M.S.  
Department of Medical ScienceMcMaster University Medical CenterHamilton, Ontario 
Melinda M. Manore, Ph.D., R.D.  
Department of Nutrition and Exercise 
Sciences
Oregon State UniversityCorvallis, Oregon 
Robert G. McMurray, Ph.D.  
Department of Exercise and Sport 
Science
University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 
Benjamin F. Miller, Ph.D.  
Department of Health and Exercise 
Science
Colorado State UniversityFort Collins, Colorado 
7950_C000.fm  Page xiii  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
Jonathan A. Moore, B.S. 
Department of Exercise Science
University of South CarolinaColumbia, South Carolina 
Kristin S. Ondrak, M.S.  
Department of Exercise and Sport 
Science
University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill
Chapel Hill, North Carolina  
Charilaos Papadopoulos, Ph.D. 
Department of Health, Human 
Performance and Nutrition
Central Washington UniversityEllensburg, Washington 
Kelley K. Pettee, Ph.D.  
Department of Exercise and WellnessArizona State UniversityMesa, Arizona 
Mark A. Tarnopolsky, M.D., Ph.D.  
Department of Pediatrics and MedicineMcMaster University Medical CentreHamilton, Ontario 
Janice L. Thompson, Ph.D., F.A.C.S.M.  
Department of Sport, Exercise 
and Health Sciences
University of BristolBristol, U.K.  
Catrine Tudor-Locke, Ph.D., F.A.C.S.M 
Department of Exercise and WellnessArizona State University
Mesa, Arizona 
Serge P. von Duvillard, Ph.D., 
F.A.C.S.M., F.E.C.S.S.  
Department of Health and Human
Performance Biological Sciences
Texas A&M University—CommerceCommerce, Texas 
Ira Wolinsky, Ph.D.  
Department of Health and Human 
Performance 
University of Houston  Houston, Texas 
7950_C000.fm  Page xiv  Friday, July 27, 2007  2:07 PM

 
1 
1 
Introduction to Sports 
Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 
Barry Braun and Benjamin F. Miller  
CONTENTS 
I.  Introduction ......................................................................................................1
II. Energy Transduction ........................................................................................2
A. General Principles of Bioenergetics.........................................................2B. Energy-Yielding Pathways .......................................................................3C. Energy supply ...........................................................................................6D. Energy Demand ........................................................................................7E. Matching Supply to Demand ...................................................................8
F. Consequences of mismatching supply to demand.................................10
G. Factors that Impact Energy Utilization ..................................................12
III. How does Diet Inﬂuence Energy Utilization? ..............................................15
A. Gross Energy Intake ...............................................................................15B. Macronutrient Composition....................................................................15
IV . How does Exercise inﬂuence Dietary Requirements? ..................................16
A. Energy needs...........................................................................................16B. Carbohydrate Needs ...............................................................................17C. Protein Needs..........................................................................................18
V . Conclusion......................................................................................................18References................................................................................................................19 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The interplay between nutrition and physical activity is as frequently misunderstoodas the relationship between industrialization and global climate; most people tendto either underemphasize (“as long as I get enough exercise I can eat whatever Iwant”) or overemphasize (“each mouthful of food must conform to rigid require-ments”) the importance of nutrition to exercise performance. Making sound nutri-tional choices does not guarantee athletic prowess but consistently making poorchoices almost certainly constrains performance. More speciﬁcally, sound nutritionis necessary to effectively train and take advantage of training stimuli. From the 
7950_C001.fm  Page 1  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
2 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
1920s studies of high carbohydrate versus high fat diets on exercise performance
by Krogh and Lindhard 
1 
 through the 1960s glycogen supercompensation studies of
Bergstrom and Hultman, 
2 
 to the more recent studies of post-exercise protein feeding
on muscle protein synthesis, 
3 
 it is clear that total energy and the macronutrient (i.e.,
carbohydrate, fat, protein) composition of the diet modulate acute exercise perfor-mance and adaptations to training. Understanding how energy is produced and howthe demand for energy during exercise drives energy utilization is critical to recom-mending appropriate dietary choices to replace that energy and refuel for the nextexercise bout. The goal of this chapter is to outline these basic principles of energymetabolism and introduce the concepts that will be reviewed in more depth in laterchapters. 
II. ENERGY TRANSDUCTION
A. G 
ENERAL 
 P 
RINCIPLES 
  
OF 
 B 
IOENERGETICS 
Bioenergetics refers to the Laws of Thermodynamics as applied to biological sys-
tems. The ﬁrst law, that energy cannot be created or destroyed but is transferredbetween the system and its surroundings, implies that energy ﬂow into the bodymust balance energy ﬂow out of the body plus or minus energy storage. In thesimplest sense, the ﬂow of energy into the body comes from the diet and energyﬂow out is primarily determined by basal energy requirements and physical activity.Changes in storage are primarily reﬂected, at least over the long term, by increasesor decreases in body fat. Of course, in reality, the ﬂow of energy is a bit morecomplicated. 
The human system, like the systems of most other taxa, has devised mechanisms
to store energy. This storage frees the body from the demands of continuously adding
energy to the system. Macronutrients in foods contain energy-rich chemical bonds.After digestion and absorption, the energy is stored as chemical bonds in triglyceride(fat), in glycogen (carbohydrate) and, arguably, in skeletal muscle (protein). This storedchemical bond energy is what is used to perform work. In this sense, human energymetabolism is similar to an internal combustion engine wherein energy substrates enter(food or gasoline), are combusted, and heat and work are produced. Metabolic energyis quantiﬁed in units of kilocalories (kcal, 1000 calories) and kilojoules (kJ, 1000joules) or megajoules (MJ, 1000 kJ). 
Although the idea of continuously eating without storing energy sounds appeal-
ing, it really does not leave much room for anything else in life. Golden-crownedkinglets, tiny (5 grams) birds that inhabit the northeastern United States, eat almostconstantly during daylight hours to match their exceptionally high basal metabolicrate and store enough body fat to survive the night. In the winter, kinglets can starveto death after 24 hours without food. The human species is adapted to survive inthe face of intermittent food availability, i.e., periods when food is abundant followedby periods of scarcity. Therefore, the efﬁcient storage of food energy in periods ofabundance is a metabolic priority. The consequences of maintaining efﬁcient energystorage when food is consistently plentiful has been blamed for the epidemic ofobesity and obesity-related diseases in many “Westernized” countries.  
7950_C001.fm  Page 2  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 
3 
B. E 
NERGY 
-Y 
IELDING 
 P 
ATHWAYS 
The energy-yielding pathways are roughly subdivided into those that require oxygen
and those that do not. The ultimate outcome of all the pathways is to convert chemicalbond energy in macronutrients to adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the only chemicalform of energy the body can use to perform work. 
Because ATP storage in the body is severely limited (to provide sufﬁcient energy
for an “average” day the supply of ATP is broken down and regenerated around5000 times a day), there must be storage forms of energy that can be rapidly activatedand can respond to changes in energy demand (Figure 1.1). Phosphocreatine (PCr)serves as the most rapidly accessible form of energy “storage.” The enzyme creatinekinase (CK) catalyzes a reaction that results in the transfer of a phosphate groupfrom PCr to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) to form ATP. The reaction proceedsquickly in the presence of PCr or ADP and requires no oxygen but is limited by thelow availability of PCr. During rapid high-intensity exercise PCr stores are depletedin a few seconds and therefore need to be replenished during a recovery period. 
The other non-oxygen-requiring pathway, which is speciﬁc to carbohydrate
metabolism, is called glycolysis. Glucose molecules freed by breakdown of storedmuscle glycogen or entering the muscle cell from the blood via a cellular glucosetransport protein (and ultimately derived from breakdown of glycogen stored in theliver) enter the glycolytic pathways. Glycolysis is a series of reactions with an overallfavorable free energy change (i.e., there is a net liberation of stored energy) in whichthe 6-carbon glucose unit is split into 3-carbon units called pyruvate with a net gainof 2 ATP. The pyruvate has several potentials; it can be oxidized within the cell,exported from muscle and taken up by heart or other muscle cells for oxidation, orassembled back into glucose by the liver. Glycolysis has a relatively quick onsetcompared with aerobic respiration (discussed later). It provides the bulk of energy 
FIGURE 1.1 
Schematic drawing showing highlights of the systems used to generate the ATP
required to accomplish cellular work. 
7950_C001.fm  Page 3  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
4 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
in the ﬁrst few minutes of exercise and during sustained exercise at moderate to
high intensity (e.g., at greater than about 60% of maximal aerobic capacity). 
A very recent hypothesis proposed by Shulman suggests that glycogen break-
down plays an even larger role than previously thought; studies done using magneticresonance spectroscopy over millisecond time scales suggest that all of the glucoseentering the cell, even during exercise, “cycles” through glycogen before enteringglycolysis. 
4 
 This theory implies that glycogen breakdown during each muscle
contraction is countered by glycogen synthesis between contractions and that therate of glycogen use is actually the net result of repeating cycles of glycogenbreakdown and resynthesis occurring too fast to be seen by more conventionaltechniques.
Another deviation from the conventional wisdom regarding glycolysis has been
the transformation of lactate (a.k.a lactic acid) from metabolic waste product to keyenergy intermediate. 
5 
 Decades of work by George Brooks and colleagues has gen-
erated almost universal acceptance regarding the importance of lactate produced bymuscle during exercise as a source of oxidizable energy for neighboring muscle
ﬁbers and the heart, and as a key precursor for the synthesis of new glucose by the
liver. 
5 
 In addition, biochemistry texts present the pathway of glycolysis as ending
with pyruvate; with the pyruvate entering the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle.Although few authors still believe that lactate formation during exercise is causedby lack of oxygen (anaerobiosis), the prevailing viewpoint is that the production oflactate is “initiated” when the rate of glycolysis exceeds the rate of oxidative phos-phorylation. This latter view is being re-examined in light of evidence suggestingthe existence of an intracellular lactate shuttle. 
6,7 
 In this scheme, lactate is the end
product of glycolysis and is moved across the mitochondrial membrane for oxidativephosphorylation. The key components necessary for the cytosolic conversion ofpyruvate to lactate, lactate transport into the mitochondria, and the mitochondrialconversion of lactate to pyruvate, have all been identiﬁed. 
6,8 
  
Although the shuttle
hypothesis is gaining experimental evidence in muscle, and similar shuttles havebeen identiﬁed in other tissues such as the brain, 
9 
 it still has not gained universal
acceptance and awaits further experimental evidence before being incorporated intothe scientiﬁc mainstream. 
10 
Glycolysis is a gateway for carbohydrate into oxidative phosphorylation in muscle
mitochondria. Oxidative phosphorylation refers to the combined processes of the TCAcycle and the electron transport chain. Since glycolysis is more rapidly activated thanoxidative phosphorylation and can exceed the oxidative capacity of local mitochondria,the coupling of non-oxidative glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation is determinedby the number of mitochondria in the cell and, under some conditions, the localavailability of oxygen. Oxygen delivery and the number of mitochondria will in turnbe largely determined by muscle ﬁber type and exercise training status. 
Regardless of whether pyruvate enters the mitochondrial matrix as pyruvate or
as lactate, once there, it undergoes oxidative decarboxylation by the pyruvate dehy-drogenase enzyme complex to form acetyl-CoA. Acetyl-CoA is an important con-version point in oxidative metabolism since it is the entry to the TCA cycle. In everyrevolution of the cycle, two carbons enter as acetyl-CoA and two carbons leave asCO 
2 
, and one high-energy phosphate molecule (GTP) is produced. The big payoff, 
7950_C001.fm  Page 4  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 
5 
however, is the generation of one molecule of FADH 
2 
 and three molecules of NADH
that are made in every turn of the cycle. These molecules donate electrons to the
electron transport chain, the site where the lion’s share of ATP is produced. 
The electron transport chain is a microcosm of the complexity and functionality
of systems design. In this process electrons given up by the energy-rich electroncarriers, NADH and FADH 
2 
, are sequentially transferred by a series of four protein
complexes (three in the case of FADH 
2 
) and two mobile electron carriers. The
energetically favorable passage of these electrons through the chain is aided by threeof the complexes which are also enzymes; NADH dehydrogenase (Complex I),cytochrome c reductase (Complex III), and cytochrome c oxidase (Complex IV).The ﬁnal step in the chain is for pairs of electrons to reduce molecular oxygen towater, hence the familiar designation of oxygen as the “terminal electron acceptor”.The enzyme complexes also function as pumps which move protons from themitochondrial matrix to the inter-mitochondrial membrane space. The pumping of
these protons creates an electrochemical gradient across the inner mitochondrial
membrane (the energy contained in the separation of positive and negative chargesis similar to the potential energy contained in a lake being held back by a dam).The potential energy generated by the pumping of protons can be exploited byallowing the protons to fall back across the membrane. In the lake/dam analogy,energy liberated by water spilling out of the dam is harnessed when the ﬂowingwater turns a turbine. In the electron transport chain the protons can only fall backacross the membrane through an additional complex called ATP synthase. ATPsynthase uses the net change in free energy to phosphorylate ADP to ATP. Theoxidation of NADH to NAD 
+ 
 results in the pumping of six H 
+ 
 (two at each enzyme
pump), which creates enough energy for the phosphorylation of three ADP to ATP.In the case of FADH 
2 
, two ATP are created from the transport chain. The total energy
extracted from the complete oxidation of one glucose in the TCA cycle and electrontransport chain is 36-37 ATP, depending on whether the glucose was derived fromthe blood or from muscle glycogen. 
As well as being the entry point to the TCA cycle, Acetyl-CoA is the point at
which fat and carbohydrate metabolism converge. As opposed to carbohydrate uti-lization, garnering energy from the utilization of fat can only proceed in the presenceof oxygen. Once free fatty acids gain entry to the cell, they are transported to theouter mitochondrial membrane, are activated by the addition of CoA to form fattyacyl-CoA and transported into the mitochondria by the enzymes carnitine palmitoyltransferase I and II. At this point, the fatty acyl-CoA undergoes sequential breakdownto 2-carbon acetyl-CoA units by the process of  
β 
-oxidation for entry into the TCA
cycle. From here, the pathways leading to ATP production are identical. Becausefatty acids usually contain more carbon atoms than does glucose, more ATP arederived from their oxidation. The “typical” fatty acid palmitate contains 16 carbonsand generates 129 net ATP when fully oxidized. Although oxidation of fatty acidsis a minor component of energy expenditure early in exercise, or during exercise athigh intensity (>80% maximal aerobic capacity), sustained exercise at low or mod-erate intensities would be impossible without a substantial contribution of energyfrom fat oxidation. The use of intra- and extracellular carbohydrate and lipid energysources is depicted in Figure 2.  
7950_C001.fm  Page 5  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
6 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
Although prevailing wisdom holds that protein, in the form of amino acids, is a
relatively minor contributor to exercise energy expenditure, some portion of total
energy expenditure (generally 3–6%) is derived from oxidation of amino acids. Aminoacids, in particular the branched-chain amino acids leucine, isoleucine and valine,can enter the energy-yielding pathways as pyruvate, acetyl Co-A or at several otherpoints in the TCA cycle. During prolonged exercise, especially when glycogen storesare low, the contribution of amino acids to exercise energy expenditure can exceed10%. Unlike carbohydrate and fat energy, which are stored in forms that have fewstructural or functional roles (although even this truism may be revised as a role forglycogen in cell signaling is being elucidated), all body proteins have functionsbeyond energy storage. The intermittent synthesis and breakdown of skeletal musclein response to feeding and fasting indicates that skeletal muscle is a storage site forprotein. Some would argue, however, that transamination and excretion of excessnitrogen indicate that protein is not stored. The use of protein as an energy source
must be repaid by dietary protein or the consequence is a loss of lean tissue. 
C. E 
NERGY 
  
SUPPLY 
Understanding how stored energy is used to provide energy for exercise gives insight
into the probable location, size and accessibility of carbohydrate, fat and proteinstorage in the body. Each of the storage sites will be considered individually becauseeach is mobilized and utilized quite differently during exercise. 
Carbohydrate is stored with water as glycogen in the liver and skeletal muscle.
These two stores of glycogen have two distinctly different purposes. Muscle glyco-gen fuels activity within that muscle or shuttles fuel to other muscle via lactate.Glycogen in the liver maintains blood glucose concentration for tissues, such ascentral nervous system tissues, that are dependent on glucose. In an average 70 kgmale with 15% body fat, the liver contains 0.10 kg of glycogen or 1,600 kJ, whereasskeletal muscle contains 0.40 kg of glycogen or 6,400 kJ. 
11 
  
It should be apparent 
FIGURE 1.2 
Opposing effects of exercise intensity and duration on carbohydrate and fat
oxidation (FFA  
= 
 free fatty acids).
Energy expenditure (kcal/min)12
0Intramyocellular or other triglycerides
   Rest    Low      Moderate    High Blood glucoseBlood-borne FFA’s 16
12
8Muscle glycogenEnergy expenditure (kcal/min)  4
10         minutes of exercise 120
Increasing exercise intensity
(assume 20-45 minutes duration)Increasing exercise duration (assume moderate intensity exercise)  
7950_C001.fm  Page 6  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 
7 
that these stores are ﬁnite and limiting. In fact, an overnight fast can be sufﬁcient
to deplete most liver glycogen. While the liver can make glucose from 3-carbonprecursors such as alanine or lactate via gluconeogenesis when glycogen is in shortsupply, skeletal muscle does not have that capability. Consequently, skeletal muscleglycogen depletion can be problematic during exercise. Since the pioneering studiesof Bergstrom and Hultman, 
12 
 it has been apparent that glycogen depletion correlates
with fatigue although the causal mechanism remains unclear. Conversely, increasingstores of glycogen, known as supercompensation, can enhance exercise perfor-mance. 
2 
 For these reasons, carbohydrate supplementation has been one of the most
intensively studied areas of exercise nutrition. 
Fat is stored as triglycerides in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue. In the 70
kg male with 15% body fat example, fat storage would be 10.5 kg or 390,000 kJ(390 MJ). 
11 
 Hence, in even the leanest of athletes, energy stored as fat is, for all
practical purposes, considered limitless. The role of the intracellular fat stored within
muscle as an energy source during exercise is not clear. When viewed with electron
microscopy, skeletal muscle triglycerides and mitochondria are in close proximity. 
13 
Some experimental results indicate that these triglycerides represent an easily acces-sible energy source. 
14 
 Other data suggest that working muscle is almost exclusively
dependent on the oxidation of carbohydrate, leaving no room for fat use, 
15 
 and that
the proximal fat stores are likely used during recovery. 
16 
 The current debate is
complicated by methodological issues, which have been reviewed previously indetail. 
17 
 The role of intramyocellular lipid is an active area of research and more
answers should be forthcoming.
In a discussion of protein metabolism, it is more accurate to refer to amino
acid metabolism since most intermediary metabolism happens as amino acids ratherthan protein. Our standard male would contain roughly 8.5 kg of protein or about142,000 kJ (142 MJ). 
11 
 Even given this vast amount of energy, it is incorrect to imply
that protein is a signiﬁcant energy store. The use of branched-chain amino acids doesincrease during exercise, but the 2-3-fold increase in amino acid oxidation pales incomparison to the 10-20-fold increase in carbohydrate and fat metabolism. 
18 
 In fact,
the method most often used to measure substrate oxidation during exercise, the respi-ratory exchange ratio (RER), ignores the contribution of amino acids. For simplicitythen, the dynamic amino acid pool, a product of protein synthesis and breakdown, isusually viewed as being preoccupied with structural metabolism.  
D. E 
NERGY 
 D 
EMAND 
Total daily energy expenditure (TDEE) can be roughly divided into three categories:resting metabolic rate (RMR), diet-induced thermogenesis (DIT), and physical activ-ity (PA). Resting metabolism represents the energy demand for maintenance ofresting homeostasis and is largely determined by fat-free mass. Skeletal muscle, thelargest component of fat-free mass, is a large energy drain because of energyconsuming processes such as protein synthesis, ionic regulation, and heat generation.For anyone not performing large amounts of daily PA, RMR is the largest componentof energy expenditure. Diet-induced thermogenesis represents the cost of processing,trafﬁcking and storing nutrients and depends mainly on energy intake. Because DIT 
7950_C001.fm  Page 7  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
8 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
is difﬁcult to measure reliably in humans, it is usually estimated as representing
10% of total daily energy expenditure. However, this expenditure can vary somewhatwith the macronutrient composition of the diet. Physical activity traditionally rep-resents any energy expenditure above doing nothing and is the most variable com-ponent of energy expenditure. Physical activity increases energy expenditure becauseof, among other things, the extra demands of cross-bridge cycling, ion pumping,hormone synthesis, and heat production. Of note is a relatively new concept termednon-exercise activity thermogenesis or NEAT has been coined to include very lowintensity activity like ﬁdgeting or simple standing, and is incorporated into measure-ments of physical activity. For a discussion of energy expenditure, it is useful toconsider an American football offensive lineman, a gymnast, and an ultramarathoner.
For an offensive lineman, the requirements for a high absolute power output and
to offer considerable resistance to movement by external forces make it advantageousto maintain a large muscle mass. Because of the large muscle mass, this athlete willhave a prodigious resting energy expenditure. Given the intermittent nature of theirtraining (practice or weight lifting) and competition, the energy expenditure due to
activity will be less signiﬁcant than resting energy expenditure. This athlete can
consume large amounts of energy because it is balanced by their huge resting energyexpenditure, and the fact that excess mass will not have negative consequences. For agymnast, a large muscle mass is advantageous, but excess mass is not. A gymnast willalso have a high resting energy expenditure due to their large lean body mass, althoughnot nearly as high as the offensive lineman. Again, given the intermittent nature of agymnast’s activity, energy expenditure due to physical activity will probably not equalresting energy expenditure. This athlete will have to closely monitor energy intake andexpenditure since there is a negative consequence for any added mass that is notworking skeletal muscle. Finally, an ultra marathoner must maintain a low lean masssince any excess mass, even skeletal muscle, is a clear disadvantage in their sport. Inthis situation, where prolonged aerobic exercise requires considerable energy output,energy expenditure due to physical activity will likely exceed resting energy expendi-ture (although the low body fat in the marathon runner causes them to have a higherresting energy expenditure than a comparably-sized sedentary individual).  
E. M 
ATCHING 
 S 
UPPLY 
  
TO 
 D 
EMAND 
In meeting the need to match energy supply to energy demand, relevant time spanscan range from seconds to years. On the period of seconds, limited stores of ATPand PCr are taxed and must be replenished as other energy producing pathways areactivated. Progressing further, exercise bouts of 5 min, 30 min, 1 hr, 4 hr, and 8 hrwill all have different supply and demand considerations due to ﬁnite energy stores.Finally, over the periods of days, weeks, and years, the matching of supply anddemand is dependent on habitual physical activity patterns and dietary habits. 
For the time scale of seconds, it is possible to make calculations of the amount
of energy needed to perform a bout of work. This can be on a scale as small as thenumber of ATP needed for twitch activity or the amount of work performed over a30-second test of maximal bicycling capacity. For longer time periods, the measure-ment of oxygen consumption (VO 
2 
), known as indirect calorimetry, is a convenient 
7950_C001.fm  Page 8  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 
9 
tool for making lab-based measurements of energy demand. These studies are most
frequently performed at rest or during steady-state exercise over a deﬁned period oftime. Assuming energy is derived from oxidation of carbohydrate and fat in abouta 50:50 ratio, for every kJ of aerobic energy production, approximately 50 ml ofoxygen is required (or 20.2 kJ/L). Therefore, multiplying VO 
2 
 (L/min) by the energy
equivalent of oxygen (20.2 kJ/L) will provide a reasonable estimate of the rate ofenergy expenditure (kJ/min). By measuring both O 
2 
 consumption and CO 
2 
 produc-
tion (VCO 
2 
) respiratory exchange ratio ((RER)  
= 
 VCO 
2 
/VO 
2 
) can be calculated. This
calculation allows for more accurate measurements of the proportion of carbohydrateand fat (ignores protein) being used as fuels at that time. A ratio near 0.8 indicatesprimarily fat oxidation, while a ratio near 1.0 indicates primarily carbohydrateoxidation. Obvious limitations of indirect calorimetry are that it can only accountfor aerobic energy production and ignores non-aerobic energy production, measure-ments are generally conﬁned to a laboratory environment (although the accuracy of
smaller units than can be used in the ﬁeld is improving), and long-term measurements
(anything longer than a few hours) of energy consumption are not practical. Mea-surements of energy expenditure up to about 24 hours can be made using roomcalorimeters in the few facilities where they are available. 
For longer assessment (days to weeks), the doubly-labeled water technique is
the gold standard. The method is expensive but easy to administer. Subjects drinkwhat looks to be an ordinary glass of water, which contains known amounts of astable isotopic “label” on both the hydrogen and oxygen. The labeled hydrogenequilibrates with the body water pool only, while the labeled oxygen equilibrateswith the body water pool and CO 
2 
. Knowing the initial dose of the labels, and
measuring the difference in the excretion rates in the body water pool between thetwo labels, the excretion rate of the unmeasured CO 
2 
 pool can be calculated. Know-
ing CO 
2 
 production and estimating VCO 
2 
/VO 
2 
 from the composition of the habitual
diet, energy expenditure can be calculated. The biggest advantage of this techniqueis that subjects can be free living, with only a couple of urine samples needed afterthe initial consumption of the water. 
Finally, for truly long-term (weeks to years) changes in energy assessment of
dietary intake and body weight can assess energy demand. This measurement isbased on the First Law of Thermodynamics. When dietary energy intake exceedsenergy expenditure the excess energy will be stored. Over time, energy storageequates to greater body weight. So, by this relatively crude, but reliable and valid,form of energy expenditure assessment, weight gain means that energy intake isexceeding energy demands and weight loss means that energy intake is insufﬁcientfor energy demands.
Matching energy supply to energy demand requires several components: 
1. A way to assess energy stores and send that information out to the rest
of the body;
2. A processing center to integrate information and direct an appropriate
response;
3. Systems to change intake and expenditure in the appropriate directions;4. A signal to the processing center reﬂecting the new state. 
7950_C001.fm  Page 9  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
10 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
During hard exercise, energy demand can increase by more than 20-fold over the
resting metabolism of about 4.2 kj/min (1 kcal/minute), or roughly equivalent to a 100
watt light bulb. Neural, biochemical and hormonal changes that accompany (and evenprecede) muscle contraction are signals for the change in demand, and energy provisionis initiated. For example, the rapid increase in inorganic phosphate (Pi) and ADP inthe muscle increases the activity of CK to regenerate ATP from PCr hydrolysis andalso accelerates glycolysis. Simultaneously, activation of the sympathetic nervoussystem and an increase in blood catecholamines (ﬂight or ﬁght response) cause gly-cogen breakdown in muscle and liver as well as triglyceride breakdown in adiposetissue (and maybe intramuscular triglycerides). So, stored carbohydrate and fat arecatabolized to increase the available pool of glucose and fatty acids. A key point isthat the matching of supply to demand is almost instantaneous in terms of the mag-nitude of the response (i.e., there is excellent matching between the kJ required andthe kJ provided) but the blend of energy sources is skewed toward the rapidly activated“local” sources in the ﬁrst few minutes of exercise. Much of the energy early in exerciseis derived from PCr and muscle glycogen in order to meet the energetic needs
while the other systems are “titrated” into play. As exercise continues, the supply of
glucose derived from glycogen, blood glucose, adipose-derived fatty acids, intramyo-
cellular fatty acids and amino acids is continually changing to meet demand. Theprecise regulation of these interconnected pathways is a topic of much research andcertainly has implications for pre-, during, and post-exercise nutritional strategies.  
F. C 
ONSEQUENCES 
  
OF 
  
MISMATCHING 
  
SUPPLY 
  
TO 
  
DEMAND 
  
Once again, no discussion of the consequences of a mismatch between energy supplyand demand is fruitful without considering the appropriate time scale. As previouslydiscussed, PCr can donate its phosphate group for the rapid resynthesis of ATP fromADP. Although PCr stores are about 5 times those of ATP, the supply may be depletedin a couple of seconds during very high intensity exercise. Thereafter, the storeshave to recover during rest periods or a transition to less intense aerobic exercisefor replenishment. PCr storage has been demonstrated to respond favorably tosupplementation and the increase in storage can enhance high-intensity exerciseperformance, 
19,20 
 which in itself is indirect evidence that PCr stores are limiting in
short-duration intense activity. During steady-state exercise, resynthesis of ATPbetween contractions by PCr, glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation is usuallyadequate to keep intracellular ATP concentration from dropping. During very pro-longed steady-state exercise, the capacity to completely recycle ATP between con-tractions can be compromised and ATP concentrations begin to fall. The fall in ATPhas been associated with fatigue and inability to maintain exercise performance,however the idea that fatigue is “caused” by a fall in cellular ATP concentration isa dramatic oversimpliﬁcation of the complex process of fatigue. Nonetheless, it isclear however that an inability to match demand with the appropriate supply willforce the individual to reduce exercise intensity to a level that can be sustained withthe available energy supply, or even to stop exercise entirely. 
The substrates for anaerobic glycolysis are blood glucose and muscle glycogen.
Although in most cases blood glucose can be sustained by liver glycogenolysis and 
7950_C001.fm  Page 10  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 
11 
gluconeogenesis, muscle glycogen supply is limiting to exercise performance. Like
PCr, glycogen satisﬁes the criteria for being considered limiting in supply; exercisein a glycogen-depleted state will decrease exercise performance, whereas increasingglycogen concentration (supercompensation) will usually enhance exercise perfor-mance. Exactly why fatigue is so closely associated with low muscle glycogen isnot entirely clear since complete glycogen depletion is not observed even whenstudy subjects fatigue and can no longer maintain exercise. 
2 
 There has been specu-
lation that some minimal concentration of glycogen is “protected” and resistant touse during exercise; perhaps to ensure that some fuel is spared in case of direnecessity (e.g., to keep from becoming dinner). The recent work by Shulman andcolleagues suggesting that glucose entering the muscle cell is incorporated intoglycogen before being shunted into glycolysis, especially when glycogen stores arelow, 
4 
 supports but does not prove that theory. The close connection between glycogen
stores and exercise performance have made carbohydrate supplementation before,
during and after exercise, one of the most well studied areas of exercise nutrition.
In addition, the role of glycogen depletion in exercise performance has crossed intonew areas such as energy sensing, 
21 
 cellular signaling, 
22 
 and training-induced adap-
tations. 
23 
 
As discussed, for all practical purposes fat supply is never limiting to exercise
demand. There is an extremely large supply of fat energy stored in the body, andworking muscles appear to disdain fat energy during periods of high metabolic ﬂux,i.e., exercise at more than low-moderate intensity. There has been great interest intrying to “train” the athlete to rely more on fat energy by feeding high-fat diets toincrease the enzymes required for fat oxidation. While it is possible to induce someof the appropriate metabolic adaptations that increase fat utilization, these interven-tions do not enhance exercise performance. 
24 
 Thus, as opposed to PCr and glycogen,
fat supply does not deplete, it is the capacity to use fat that is limiting, not the supplyitself, and supplementation does not improve exercise capacity. 
A ﬁnal point regarding that mismatch of supply and demand during an acute
bout of exercise distinguishes between the quantity and quality of fuels. The con-sequences of mismatching the quantity of energy required results in fatigue, or theinability to maintain the desired force output. On the other hand, the consequencesof mismatching the quality of the energy required are more subtle. For example, toomuch carbohydrate utilization will allow maintenance of a high exercise intensitybut will cause rapid glycogen depletion and fatigue. Too little carbohydrate utiliza-tion will spare precious glycogen reserves but, by forcing greater reliance of fattyacid oxidation, will constrain exercise to a relatively low intensity. Therefore, thebody systems designed to sense, integrate, and deliver the appropriate energy tomatch demand, must be sensitive to the quality of the energy required as well as thequantity. 
Over the long-term (days/weeks/months), energy supply can be mismatched to
demand with no acute loss of function, but with potent consequences for bodycomposition and exercise. Caloric restriction or prolonged high energy expenditurewill cause energy deﬁcit, whereas prolonged low energy expenditure or excessenergy intake results in a surplus. Energy surplus, extended over weeks or months,will result in gain of body mass, which inhibits performance of most exercise tasks. 
7950_C001.fm  Page 11  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
12 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
Decrements in exercise performance will be especially profound if the excess mass
is stored as adipose tissue since this tissue does not directly contribute to mechanicalwork. Chronic energy shortage has profound effects on exercise performance in manydifferent ways. An important advancement in this area is the distinction between
inadequate energy intake as opposed to high energy expenditure. Based on pioneer-ing work by Anne Loucks and others, 
25,26 
 the cluster of symptoms (disordered eating,
amenorrhea, low bone mineral density) that are often described as the “female athletetriad” is now believed to be more closely related to energy shortage rather than toexcess training or low body fat. 
25 
 It has also been observed that chronic energy
deﬁcit can alter hormone proﬁles, 
26 
 cause loss of muscle mass, 
27 
 and change substrate
oxidation patterns. 
28 
 
The matching of energy intake and expenditure is especially relevant to perfor-
mance in an event requiring extremely high energy outputs extended over multipledays or weeks, such as the Tour de France. Researchers from Holland performed theﬁrst measurements of energy intake and output during the Tour de France. 
29,30 
 The
cyclists in their research group consumed 24.7 MJ/day (5,900 cal/day) with the highest
average value for a single day being 32.4 MJ (7,750 kcal). On average, the cyclists
expended 29.4–36.0 MJ/day (7020–8600 cal/day). In other words, energy expenditureroughly matched energy intake even though energy expenditure was 3.6–5.3 timesthe resting metabolic rate. A report by Kirkwood demonstrated that across mammalsand birds the maximum possible sustainable energy expenditure was 4–5 timesRMR. 
31 
 Therefore, these cyclists at the Tour de France were operating right at the
proposed maximum energy expenditure. An intriguing question then emerges as towhether food intake is limiting to exercise performance in an event such as theTour de France. In other words, it may just be extremely difﬁcult to eat more than30 MJ/day and therefore, the upper limit to sustainable energy expenditure is 30 MJ/day.Recently there was an effort by another three-week cycling race, the Vuelta a España,to shorten stages to make them more humane and to discourage doping. Rather thantake advantage of the “easier” conditions, the riders simply rode faster over the shortercourses. 
32 
 Therefore, even though the stage race was shorter in distance, the athletes
were expending the same amount of energy as a longer-distanced stage race. It maybe that these athletes are capable of pushing themselves to the physiological limitsof energy expenditure no matter how long or short the event is. Further, since theability to produce energy day after day is dependent on being able to get that energyback into the system, it may be that physiological performance at a tour is limitedby how much food can be properly eaten and digested.  
G. F 
ACTORS 
  
THAT 
 I 
MPACT 
 E 
NERGY 
 U 
TILIZATION 
  
Intensity and duration of exercise have reciprocal effects on the energy-producingpathways. For example, during both acute exercise and in response to long-termtraining, as exercise intensity increases the duration that can be sustained decreases.During exercise, glycolytic energy sources increase in concert with increasing exer-cise intensity. Conversely, as intensity decreases and duration increases, there is agreater contribution from fat sources. A reasonable way to think about this relationshipis that exercise intensity determines fuel preference and the fuel preference deter mines 
7950_C001.fm  Page 12  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 
13 
the duration for which a particular bout of exercise can be sustained. Fuel selection
during exercise is associated with muscle ﬁber type so that as exercise intensityincreases, muscle ﬁber recruitment moves from almost purely aerobic type I muscleﬁbers to incorporate progressively more glycolytic type II ﬁbers; thus changing thecapacity for oxidative metabolism. The effect of exercise intensity on fuel preferenceis well described and is characterized by a point at around 45–50% VO 
2max 
 where
fuel preference “crosses” over from mainly (more than half the energy) fat to mainlycarbohydrate sources. 
14,33 
 Since most athletes and other active individuals train and
compete at exercise intensities in excess of 50% VO 
2max 
, carbohydrate is clearly the
preferred energy source. It is important to note, however, that exercise duration hasan independent effect by increasing the contribution of fat (and protein) as exercisetime elapses and glycogen stores become progressively depleted. The opposingeffects of exercise intensity and duration on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism aredepicted in Figure 1.3. 
The effect of exercise training on fuel preference has been a contentious issue
in the past with much of the argument centered on the use of the terms “absolute”and “relative”. As one becomes more trained the  
relative 
 contributions of fuels (i.e.,
proportion of carbohydrate to fat) for a given  
relative 
 exercise intensity (i.e., post-
training exercise at the same % of VO 
2max 
 as pre-training; note that the exercise is
now at a higher absolute power output because VO 
2max 
 increases with training)
remains constant. However, after training there is a greater  
relative 
 contribution of
fat used for a given  
absolute 
 workload (i.e., post-training exercise at the same power
output as pre-training; note that exercise is now at a lower relative intensity becauseVO
2max increases with training). To add complexity, note that at any given relative
exercise intensity, although the relative  contribution of fat does not change with
training, the total energy demand for the exercise task increases because the absolute
FIGURE 1.3 Schematic of pathways interconnecting carbohydrate and fat utilization (ETS =
electron transport system, G-6-P = glucose-6-phospate; IMCL = intramyocellular lipid; TCA =
tricarboxylic acid cycle).Cytosol Plasma membran e
Blood
Glycogen
PPyyrruu v v a a t t e e
GlucoseMitochondriaGlucose
Transport G-6-P Glycolysis
TCA
cycleacetyl-
CoA
IMCLFFAFatty Acyl CoA FFA
Transport
NADH + H+
FADH 2
ETSATP ADP7950_C001.fm  Page 13  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

14 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
workload is higher after training. Therefore, the absolute  amount of fat used does
increase. These concepts are represented pictorially in Figure 4. 
For many years, all of the examples used in the ﬁeld of exercise metabolism were
based on observations from the standard 70 kg male mentioned above. With increased
participation of women in sport through Title IX and The Women’s Health EquityAct of the 1990s, physiologists and biochemists began to investigate sex-based dif-ferences in women and men. Presumably because the experiments were initially doneon men, femaleness (and the physiological effects of the ovarian hormones estrogenand progesterone) is still treated as the “experimental” condition and males the“control”. Most well-controlled studies show that at any given relative exercise inten-sity, men oxidize more carbohydrate and less fat than do women.
34,35 It appears that
the differences between the patterns of relative fuel use in men and women are dueto circulating female hormones rather than male hormones or the relatively greater
proportion of type I ﬁbers in women compared to men.
35–37 
Several environmental factors also change fuel preferences. For example, exer-
cise in both heat and cold increases glycogen use.38 Also, in subjects who eat
sufﬁcient energy to maintain energy balance, exposure to high altitude increases the
use of carbohydrate, at least in men.39 It is often the case that with a new Olympic
cycle, a new environmental factor gets increased attention. Before the high altitudeof Mexico City, research on exercise at altitude was popular, whereas the Sydneyand Athens games stimulated research on exercise in the heat. A legitimate concernfor the 2008 Olympics in Beijing is air quality. Although it is not clear whether airpollutants alter substrate use, it is possible that medications used to treat asthma,such as Clenbuterol, do change fuel preference.
40FIGURE 1.4 Absolute and relative workloads and fuel partitioning. Black bars represent
VO2max before and after exercise training. Grey and dappled bars represent absolute amounts
of carbohydrate and fat, respectively. The relative proportions of the fuels are indicated in
the bar.7950_C001.fm  Page 14  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 15
III. HOW DOES DIET INFLUENCE ENERGY 
UTILIZATION?
A. G ROSS ENERGY  INTAKE
Energy deﬁcit is induced by decreased caloric intake or increased energy expendi-
ture. Caloric restriction lowers RMR, energy expended via PA, and DIT. Thereforeall three components of TDEE respond to caloric restriction in a direction thatconserves expended energy and minimizes accumulated weight loss:
Instead of caloric restriction, energy deﬁcit can also be induced by maintaining
caloric intake and increasing energy expended by PA (exercise). Since exercise helpspreserve lean tissue mass, RMR may not decline, and may even increase if there isa signiﬁcant change in body composition. Since DIT is primarily determined bycaloric intake, energy expended by DIT should not decrease if energy intake is notrestricted. Therefore, a weight management program based on increasing energyexpenditure by PA could result in a strikingly different pattern of changes to TDEEthat are more likely to promote continued weight loss:
 
The response to exercise-induced energy deﬁcit may be mediated by a different
endocrine response from that observed with caloric restriction. How exercise-induced energy deﬁcit impacts endocrine signals has not been systematically studied.In addition, sex differences in the neuroendocrine response to exercise training havebeen noted in rodents.
35 Data from human and animal studies indeed suggest that
increased physical activity, with ad libitum feeding, causes loss of body weight inmales but not in females.
41 Whether this is a true sex difference or an artifact of
experimental design (to maintain the same relative exercise energy expenditure,women expend fewer absolute kJ in the training intervention because they tend tohave lower baseline daily energy expenditure) remains to be decided. 
B. M ACRONUTRIENT  COMPOSITION
In recent years there has been considerable discussion about the effect of macronu-trient intake on energy expenditure. At rest, substitution of one macronutrient foranother could change energy expenditure because of a difference in the thermiceffect of the different macronutrients. A recent review summarized the effect ofsubstituting one macronutrient for another on total energy expenditure.
42 According
to these authors, there is little effect when fat is substituted for carbohydrate.However, increasing protein to 30–35% of energy intake increases energy e xpendi ture.Caloric Restriction Energy Deficit:RMR DIT +
↓+ +
↓=
↓↓ ↓PA TDEE
Exercise Energy Deficit:RMR DIT PA TDEE +
↔+
↔=
↑↑7950_C001.fm  Page 15  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

16 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
The magnitude of the increased energy expenditure is small, 2.7% for an average
caloric intake in the short-term,42 but may have some implications for long-term
weight management as small consistent changes integrated over long time framescan add up to physiologically relevant effects. 
Macronutrient composition of the diet also changes energy utilization by medi-
ating the proportion of fuels used for energy production. The relative economy ofstorage of the primary energy-producing macronutrients (carbohydrate and fat) isuseful for illustrating how macronutrient intake effects energy utilization. Digestiblecarbohydrates contain, on average, 17.6 kJ/gram (4.2 kcal/gram), two moles of ATPare used to store one mole of glucose as glycogen, and 2.7 grams of water arealso stored per gram of glycogen. Lipids (triglycerides) contain 39.3 kJ/gram(9.4 kcal/gram), there is no ATP cost for storage, and triglycerides are hydrophobic
so that body fat is almost 90% pure lipid. In total, the energy value of stored glycogenis about 4.2 kJ/gram (1 kcal/gram) while stored fat has an energy content of approx-imately 33.6 kJ/gram (8 kcal/gram).
43 Storing energy as triglycerides in adipose
tissue is therefore extremely efﬁcient; the same quantity of energy can be stored
with considerably less weight. Storage of the 390,000 kJ mentioned earlier as carbo-
hydrate (glycogen) instead of fat would increase body weight by more than 36 kg.Therefore, while this huge increase in weight would not be a problem for an oak tree(which may explain why plants generally store a great majority of their energy ascarbohydrate in the form of starch), it would clearly be a huge disadvantage foranimals that need to move to catch dinner (or avoid becoming dinner). In summary,carbohydrate is not stored efﬁciently, is continually required for speciﬁc tissuefunctions (e.g., central nervous system), and is a more oxygen efﬁcient fuel comparedto fat. Therefore, dietary fat is preferentially stored while dietary carbohydrate ispreferentially oxidized. 
Despite the fact that dietary carbohydrate can be converted to fat in the liver,
44
the rate at which this process ( de novo  lipogenesis) occurs is negligible under most
conditions. Instead, carbohydrate intake is rapidly matched by an increase in carbo-hydrate use and RER approaches 1.0 (all carbohydrate). Even after the consumptionof a mixed meal, RER rises toward 1.0 indicating an increased contribution ofcarbohydrate to energy expenditure. Carbohydrate intake is well matched by carbo-hydrate use during both rest and exercise. During exercise, exogenous carbohydrateprovision (e.g., consuming a sports drink) can be matched by oxidation of theingested glucose up until glucose transporters in the gut become saturated.
45
IV. HOW DOES EXERCISE INFLUENCE DIETARY 
REQUIREMENTS?
A. E NERGY  NEEDS
Exercise increases total energy needs due to a rise in the PA component of TDEE.As discussed above, competitive events like the Tour de France put huge demandson energy intake. Insight regarding the energy demands in a variety of sports wasobtained by using four to seven-day diet records in Dutch athletes.
46 Average
dietary intake varied from 110 kJ/kg/day (26 kcal/kg/day) in female body builders7950_C001.fm  Page 16  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 17
and 157 kJ/kg/day (38 kcal/kg/day) in female top-level gymnasts to 272 kJ/kg/day
(65 kcal/kg/day) in male triathletes and 347 kJ/kg/day (83 kcal/kg/day) in Tour de
France cyclists. In general, sports that emphasized aesthetics had the lowest intake,team sports were intermediate, and endurance sport the highest. It is important tonote, however, that these were reported intakes and were not conﬁrmed by objectiveassessment of energy expenditure. From these data, it is apparent that energy intakefor aesthetic-type athletes is far below the 9.6–13.0 MJ/day (2300–3100 kcal/d)recommended for a healthy adult. Conversely, a single day in the Tour de Francebike race can have an energy expenditure of close to 37.5 MJ (9,000 kcal),
29 or three
to four times average energy intake.
Since doubly-labeled water is becoming more readily available, a more complete
record of the energy expenditure involved in a variety of activities is developing.Recent publications have demonstrated energy expenditures of 14.7 MJ/day(3500 kcal/day) in soccer players,
47 14.7 MJ/day (3500 kcal/day) in elite Kenyan
runners,48 16.5 MJ/day (3950 kcal/day) female lightweight rowers,49 19.2 MJ/day
(4600 kcal/day), 20.5 MJ/day (4900 kcal/day) for wildﬁre suppression,50 and 23.5
MJ/day (5600 kcal/day) in elite female swimmers.51 It is interesting that when self-
reported energy intakes are compared with energy outputs calculated from doublylabeled water, it appears that many of these athletes should be in energy deﬁcit.Although it may be true that some athletes maintain a chronic energy deﬁcit, it is alsolikely that some athletes are underreporting actual dietary intake. A recent report onelite Kenyan runners indicates that in the period leading up to competition, theseathletes may indeed be in a negative energy balance.
48 Support for the latter possibility
comes from the variety of sources showing that underreporting intake is common innutritional surveys. As doubly-labeled water measurements and carefully controlledstudies of dietary intake become more feasible, we should achieve a better understand-ing of energy status (deﬁcit, balance, surplus) in different physical activities. 
B. C ARBOHYDRATE  NEEDS
Since carbohydrate depletion correlates with fatigue, maintenance of carbohydratestores throughout and between exercise bouts is of critical importance. It is increas-ingly apparent that muscle (and probably liver) glycogen content has metaboliceffects, for example in cell signaling
22,23 and exercise pacing,21 which extend beyond
simple energy storage. The current Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommendationfor carbohydrate intake is 45–65% of daily caloric intake.
52 Recommendations based
on percentages of total daily intake do not work well for athletes. Burke et al. havepublished evidence that energy and carbohydrate intake are only loosely correlatedin men, while there is no correlation in women.
53 Therefore, basing recommendations
on a percentage of caloric intake does not guarantee adequate carbohydrate intakein athletes. Current recommendations for carbohydrate intake vary based on trainingduration and intensity and are 5–7 g/kg/d for moderate duration/low intensity, 7–12g/kg/day for moderate to heavy endurance training, and 10–12 g/kg/day for anextreme exercise program.
54 From an analysis of published nutritional surveys, it
appears that typical male non-endurance and endurance athletes meet these recom-mendations, 5.5 g/kg/day and 7.5 g/kg/day, respectively, although they tend to fall7950_C001.fm  Page 17  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

18 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
on the low end of the recommendations.53 Conversely, female non-endurance and
endurance athletes report intakes of 4.7 and 5.5 g/kg/day, respectively, which
indicates that the females fall below the recommendations. The values providedhere have been demonstrated to achieve glycogen concentrations that approachmuscle storage capacity over 24 hours of passive recovery. However, these valuesdo not take into account the timing of post-exercise carbohydrate ingestion whenin the ﬁrst hour or two after exercise can result in higher rates of glycogenrepletion. 
C. P ROTEIN  NEEDS
Whether exercise increases the need for protein is a contentious topic. With endur-ance training, protein needs may be higher due to increased rates of amino acidoxidation during exercise. With strength/power athletes, there is speculation that pro-tein requirements are elevated to support gains in protein mass. The currentrecommendation of protein intake by IOM is 0.8 g/kg/day for healthy adults.Current recom mendations for endurance and strength athletes vary greatly, however
recent reviews by Tarnopolsky
55 and Phillips56 have nicely summarized much of the
currently available data. For endurance athletes it was recommended that there areno additional protein requirements for low to moderate-intensity exercise. However,at the initiation of training and at top level endurance training, needs may increaseto 1.6 g/kg/day.
55 For strength athletes it was recommended that 1.33 g/kg/dat
represents a “safe” intake.56 The typical protein intake in most endurance athletes
exceeds the daily recommended intake and even the 1.6 g/kg/day recommendationbecause of the quantity of food that endurance athletes consume to maintain energybalance.
55 Retrospective analysis of the protein intake of strength athletes also
demonstrates that the mean reported value of 2.05 g/kg/d greatly exceeds the extrap-olated 1.33 g/kg/d “safe” recommendation. 
Perhaps more than the other macronutrients, daily recommendations of protein
should be treated as broad recommendations. As demonstrated in the 1980’s, proteinrequirements are dependent on the energy status of the individual.
27 Further, it was
demonstrated that exercise training may actually decrease protein requirementsbecause of an increased efﬁciency of energy utilization.
57 Conversely, current protein
recommendations do not account for the greatly elevated protein needs of athletesconsuming restricted energy diets. But, as with carbohydrate, the timing of theprotein intake relative to other stimuli (e.g., exercise) can have a large effect on thenet protein balance.
58 It is even plausible to consider that the timing of protein
nutrition is more important than the amount of protein consumed. 
V. CONCLUSION
There are complex biologic systems that monitor energy demand and meet thatdemand by precisely releasing stored energy in the appropriate quantity and “quality”(blend of fuel sources). These mechanisms adhere to the basic principles of ther-modynamics and function to preserve the top metabolic priorities: providing glucosefor the CNS, maintaining adequate muscle glycogen stores to facilitate physical7950_C001.fm  Page 18  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 19
activity required to catch (or avoid becoming) dinner, and storing sufﬁcient energy
to survive periods of extended fasting. Athletes and other active individuals mustconform to the same physical laws, but test the boundaries of the metabolic systemsbecause of their high energy and carbohydrate expenditure, obligating considerablyhigher rates of energy and carbohydrate replacement. Although much has beenelucidated about the demands that exercise puts on energy-regulating systems, andeffective dietary manipulations to meet those demands, there is still much to belearned about how the systems are regulated. These key discoveries will enable sportnutritionists to craft optimal dietary strategies that maximize athletic performance. 
REFERENCES
1. Krogh A and Lindhard J. The Relative Value of Fat and Carbohydrate as Sources of
Muscular Energy: With Appendices on the Correlation between Standard Metabolism
and the Respiratory Quotient during Rest and Work. Biochem. J.  14: 290–363, 1920.
2. Bergstrom J and Hultman E. Synthesis of muscle glycogen in man after glucose and
fructose infusion. Acta Med. Scand.  182: 93–107, 1967.
3. Tipton KD, Ferrando AA, Phillips SM, Doyle D, Jr., and Wolfe RR. Postexercise net
protein synthesis in human muscle from orally administered amino acids. Am. J.
Physiol  276: E628, 1999.
4. Schulman RG. Glycogen turnover forms lactate during exercise. Exer. Sport Sci. Rev.
33:157–62, 2005.
5. Brooks GA. Mammalian fuel utilization during sustained exercise. Comp. Biochem.
Physiol. B: Biochem Mol. Biol. 120: 89–107, 1998.
6. Brooks GA, Dubouchaud H, Brown M, Sicurello JP, and Butz CE. Role of mitochon-
drial lactate dehydrogenase and lactate oxidation in the intracellular lactate shuttle.Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA  96: 1129, 1999.
7. Braun B and Horton T. Endocrine regulation of exercise substrate utilization in women
compared to men. Exerc. Sport Sci. Rev.  29: 149, 2001.
8. Hashimoto T, Hussien R, and Brooks GA. Colocalization of MCT1, CD147, and LDH
in mitochondrial inner membrane of L6 muscle cells: evidence of a mitochondriallactate oxidation complex. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 290 E1237–1244, 2006.
9. Gladden LB. Lactate metabolism: a new paradigm for the third millennium. J. Physiol.
(London)  558: 5–30, 2004.
10. Sahlin K, Fernstrom M, Svensson M, and Tonkonogi M. No evidence of an intra-
cellular lactate shuttle in rat skeletal muscle. J. Physiol.  541: 569–574, 2002.
11. Jeukendrup A and Gleeson M. Sport Nutrition: An introduction to energy production
and performance . Champaign, IL: Human Kinetics, 2004.
12. Bergstrom J, Hermansen L, Hultman E, and Saltin B. Diet, muscle glycogen and
physical performance. Acta Physiol. Scand.  71: 140–150, 1967.
13. Jeukendrup AE, Saris WH, and Wagenmakers AJ. Fat metabolism during exercise: a
review. Part I: fatty acid mobilization. Int. J. Sports Med. 19: 231–244, 1998.
14. Achten J, Gleeson M, and Jeukendrup AE. Determination of the exercise intensity
that elicits maximal fat oxidation. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc.  34: 92–97, 2002.
15. Bergman BC, Butterﬁeld GE, Wolfel EE, Casazza GA, Lopaschuk GD, and Brooks
GA. Evaluation of exercise and training on muscle lipid metabolism. Am. J. Physiol.
276: E106, 1999.7950_C001.fm  Page 19  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

20 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
16. Kuo CC, Fattor JA, Henderson GC, and Brooks GA. Lipid oxidation in ﬁt young
adults during postexercise recovery. J. Appl. Physiol.  99: 349–356, 2005.
17. Watt MJ, Heigenhauser GJ, and Spriet LL. Intramuscular triacylglycerol utilization
in human skeletal muscle during exercise: is there a controversy? J. Appl. Physiol
93: 1185, 2002.
18. Knapik J, Meredith C, Jones B, Fielding R, Young V , and Evans W. Leucine metab-
olism during fasting and exercise. J. Appl. Physiol.  70: 43–47, 1991.
19. Greenhaff PL, Casey A, Short AH, Harris R, Soderlund K, and Hultman E. Inﬂuence
of oral creatine supplementation of muscle torque during repeated bouts of maximal
voluntary exercise in man. Clin. Sci. (London ) 84: 565–571, 1993.
20. Harris RC, Soderlund K, and Hultman E. Elevation of creatine in resting and exercised
muscle of normal subjects by creatine supplementation. Clin. Sci. (London ) 83:
367–374, 1992.
21. Rauch HG, St Clair Gibson A, Lambert EV , and Noakes TD. A signalling role for
muscle glycogen in the regulation of pace during prolonged exercise. Br. J. Sports
Med.  39: 34–38, 2005.
22. Wojtaszewski JF, MacDonald C, Nielsen JN, Hellsten Y , Hardie DG, Kemp BE, Kiens
B, and Richter EA. Regulation of 5’AMP-activated protein kinase activity and sub-strate utilization in exercising human skeletal muscle. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol.
Metab.  284: E813–822, 2003.
23. Hansen AK, Fischer CP, Plomgaard P, Andersen JL, Saltin B, and Pedersen BK.
Skeletal muscle adaptation: training twice every second day vs. training once daily.J. Appl. Physiol.  98: 93–99, 2005.
24. Burke LM and Kiens B. “Fat adaptation” for athletic performance: the nail in the
cofﬁn? J. Appl. Physiol. 100:7–8, 2006.
25. Loucks AB. Energy availability, not body fatness, regulates reproductive function in
women. Exerc. Sport Sci. Rev.  31: 144–148, 2003.
26. Loucks AB, Verdun M, and Heath EM. Low energy availability, not stress of exercise,
alters LH pulsatility in exercising women. J. Appl. Physiol.  84: 37–46, 1998.
27. Todd KS, Butterﬁeld GE, and Calloway DH. Nitrogen balance in men with ade-
quate and deﬁcient energy intake at three levels of work. J. f Nutr.  114: 2107–2118,
1984.
28. Jebb SA, Prentice AM, Goldberg GR, Murgatroyd PR, Black AE, and Coward WA.
Changes in macronutrient balance during over- and underfeeding assessed by 12-dcontinuous whole-body calorimetry. Am. J. Clin. Nutr.  64: 259–266, 1996.
29. Saris WH, van Erp-Baart MA, Brouns F, Westerterp KR, and ten Hoor F. Study on
food intake and energy expenditure during extreme sustained exercise: the Tour deFrance. Int. J. Sports Med.  10 Suppl 1: S26–31, 1989.
30. Westerterp KR. Diet induced thermogenesis. Nutr. Metab. (London ) 1: 5, 2004.
31. Kirkwood JK. A limit to metabolisable energy intake in mammals and birds. Comp.
Biochem Physiol A: Physiol.  75: 1, 1983.
32. Lucia A, Hoyos J, Santalla A, Earnest C, and Chicharro JL. Tour de France versus
Vuelta a Espana: which is harder? Med. Sci. Sports Exerc.  35: 872–878, 2003.
33. Brooks GA and Mercier J. Balance of carbohydrate and lipid utilization during
exercise: the “crossover” concept. J. Appl. Physiol.  76: 2253, 1994.
34. Horton T. and B. Braun.  Sex-based differences in substrate metabolism; in: Advances
in Molecular and Cell Biology, 34: Principles of Sex-Based Differences in Physiology .
VM Miller and M Hay, eds., Elsevier Publishing Co., Amsterdam, The Netherlands,pp. 209–228, 2004.7950_C001.fm  Page 20  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

Introduction to Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism 21
35. Braun B and Horton T. Endocrine regulation of exercise substrate utilization in women
compared to men. Exerc. Sport Sci. Rev.  29: 149, 2001.
36. Staron RS, Hagerman FC, Hikida RS, Murray TF, Hostler DP, Crill MT, Ragg KE,
and Toma K. Fiber type composition of the vastus lateralis muscle of young men and
women. J. Histochem. Cytochem.  48: 623, 2000.
37. Braun B, Gerson L, Hagobian T, Grow D, and Chipkin SR. No effect of short-term
testosterone manipulation on exercise substrate metabolism in men. J. Appl. Physiol.
99: 1930–1937, 2005.
38. Febbraio MA. Alterations in energy metabolism during exercise and heat stress.
Sports Med.  31: 47–59, 2001.
39. Brooks GA, Butterﬁeld GE, Wolfe RR, Groves BM, Mazzeo RS, Sutton JR, Wolfel
EE, and Reeves JT. Increased dependence on blood glucose after acclimatization to4,300 m. J. Appl. Physiol  70: 919, 1991.
40. Hunt DG, Ding Z, and Ivy JL. Clenbuterol prevents epinephrine from antagonizing
insulin-stimulated muscle glucose uptake. J. Appl. Physiol.  92: 1285–1292, 2002.
41. Schoeller DA and Buchholz AC. Energetics of obesity and weight control: does diet
composition matter? J. Am. Diet. Assoc.  105: S24–28, 2005.
42. Buchholz AC and Schoeller DA. Is a calorie a calorie? Am. J. Clin. Nutr.  79:
899S–906S, 2004.
43. Flatt JP. Use and storage of carbohydrate and fat. Am. J. Clin. Nutr.  61: 952S–959S,
1995.
44. Hellerstein MK. No common energy currency: de novo lipogenesis as the road less
traveled. Am. J. Clin. Nutr.  74: 707–708, 2001.
45. Jeukendrup AE. Carbohydrate intake during exercise and performance. Nutrition  20:
669–677, 2004.
46. van Erp-Baart AM, Saris WH, Binkhorst RA, V os JA, and Elvers JW. Nationwide
survey on nutritional habits in elite athletes. Part I. Energy, carbohydrate, protein,and fat intake. Int. J. Sports Med.  10 Suppl 1: S3–10, 1989.58. Westerterp KR, Saris
WH, van Es M, and ten Hoor F. Use of the doubly labeled water technique in humansduring heavy sustained exercise. J. Appl. Physiol.  61: 2162–2167, 1986.
47. Ebine N, Feng JY , Homma M, Saitoh S, and Jones PJ. Total energy expenditure of
elite synchronized swimmers measured by the doubly labeled water method. Eur. J.
Appl. Physiol.  83: 1–6, 2000.
48. Fudge BW, Westerterp KR, Kiplamai FK, Onywera VO, Boit MK, Kayser B, and
Pitsiladis YP. Evidence of negative energy balance using doubly labelled water inelite Kenyan endurance runners prior to competition. Br. J. Nutr.  95: 59–66, 2006.
49. Hill RJ and Davies PS. Energy intake and energy expenditure in elite lightweight
female rowers. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc.  34: 1823–1829, 2002.
50. Ruby BC, Shriver TC, Zderic TW, Sharkey BJ, Burks C, and Tysk S. Total energy
expenditure during arduous wildﬁre suppression. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc.  34:
1048–1054, 2002.
51. Trappe TA, Gastaldelli A, Jozsi AC, Troup JP, and Wolfe RR. Energy expenditure of
swimmers during high volume training. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc.  29: 950–954, 1997.
52. Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2005: U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services and U.S. Department of Agriculture, 2005, p. 1–73. 
53. Burke LM, Cox GR, Culmmings NK, and Desbrow B. Guidelines for daily carbo-
hydrate intake: do athletes achieve them? Sports Med.  31: 267–299, 2001.
54. Burke LM, Kiens B, and Ivy JL. Carbohydrates and fat for training and recovery. J.
Sports Sci.  22: 15–30, 2004.7950_C001.fm  Page 21  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

22 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
55. Tarnopolsky M. Protein requirements for endurance athletes. Nutrition  20: 662–668,
2004.
56. Phillips SM. Protein requirements and supplementation in strength sports. Nutrition
20: 689–695, 2004.
57. Butterﬁeld GE and Calloway DH. Physical activity improves protein utilization in
young men. Br. J. Nutr.  51: 171–184, 1984.
58. Tipton KD, Borsheim E, Wolf SE, Sanford AP, and Wolfe RR. Acute response of net
muscle protein balance reﬂects 24-h balance after exercise and amino acid ingestion.
Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab.  284: E76, 2003.7950_C001.fm  Page 22  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:50 PM

 
Section 1 
Energy-Yielding Nutrients 
7950_S001.fm  Page 23  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  6:00 PM

 
7950_S001.fm  Page 24  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  6:00 PM

 
25 
2 
Utilization 
of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 
J. Andrew Doyle, Charilaos Papadopoulos, 
and Michael S. Green 
CONTENTS 
I.  Introduction ....................................................................................................25
II. Carbohydrate Metabolism..............................................................................26
A. Digestion and Absorption.......................................................................28B. Metabolism of Glucose and Glycogen...................................................28C. Glycemic Index.......................................................................................30
III. Critical Periods for Carbohydrate Manipulation...........................................31
A. The Daily Training Diet .........................................................................32B. The Week Before a Prolonged Endurance Event ..................................33C. The Meal before Exercise ......................................................................35D. During Prolonged Endurance Exercise ..................................................36E. Immediately after Exercise.....................................................................38
IV . Practical Recommendations ..........................................................................39V . Future Directions for Research......................................................................41References................................................................................................................41 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Carbohydrates and fats are the main sources of energy during endurance exercise.Fat is the predominant fuel source at rest and during low intensity activity andexercise. The energy requirements of competitive endurance training and competitiongenerally exceed the rate at which fat can be oxidized however, so carbohydratesare the predominant fuel source for these athletic activities. Carbohydrate is also themajor source of energy for repetitive, high-intensity activities that utilize the anaer-obic glycolytic energy system. It has been well established that severely reducedcarbohydrate stores, i.e., muscle glycogen, liver glycogen, and blood glucose, areclosely associated with fatigue and impaired performance in prolonged endurancetasks. 
1 
 Therefore, a considerable amount of research has focused on methods of 
7950_C002.fm  Page 25  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
26 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
manipulating endogenous carbohydrate stores and facilitating carbohydrate intake
in an attempt to enhance carbohydrate oxidation and improve athletic performancein training and competition.
Research on carbohydrate manipulation has generally focused on one or more
of the time periods during which its alteration may have a signiﬁcant impact onendurance exercise performance, including: 
1. Daily training 2. The week before a prolonged event 3. The hours (meal) before exercise 4. During the exercise task 5. The post-exercise period (4–48 hours) 
The majority of this research has attempted to determine the optimal amount of carbo-hydrate to consume, the appropriate timing of the consumption, and within a fairlynarrow focus, the appropriate type of carbohydrate. Studies of carbohydrate type havelargely focused on the efﬁcacy of different simple sugars (e.g., glucose and fructose)or polymers of glucose, and the optimal concentration of those carbohydrates in a
beverage or sports drink. Comparably less attention has been given to carbohydrates in
other forms, such as solid or semi-solid, or by their characterization as complex carbo-hydrates, and how their consumption may affect endurance exercise performance.
A relatively recent approach in sports nutrition research has been to study
carbohydrates by the physiological response they provoke, particularly the bloodglucose and insulin responses that result from their consumption. This categorizationby glycemic response, known as the glycemic index (GI), may be a more appropriateway to examine the effectiveness of carbohydrate consumption on exercise and sportsperformance than a more general structural classiﬁcation as simple or complexcarbohydrates, because there is a wide range of glycemic responses within eachgeneral category. 
2 
 Another recent focus in research of carbohydrates and exercise
performance has been the inclusion of other nutrients such as speciﬁc amino acidsalong with the carbohydrate and the combination of different types of carbohydratestogether to optimize the physiological response to the diet manipulation.
Athletes who are training and competing must make appropriate dietary deci-
sions concerning carbohydrate intake: optimal amounts, timing, and types. Theymust consider the effect of carbohydrate intake on short-term training and compet-itive performance, but they must also keep in mind the potential effect of their dietarychoices on long-term health and ﬁtness. The purpose of this chapter is to examinethe role of carbohydrates in exercise and sport, and to make practical recommenda-tions by which the athlete can choose a healthy fundamental diet and can furtheroptimize carbohydrate intake to potentially enhance exercise performance. 
II. 
  
CARBOHYDRATE METABOLISM 
Before exploring the manipulation of carbohydrate in the diet to improve exerciseand sport performance, it is important to understand some of the fundamentalconcepts of carbohydrate digestion, absorption, and metabolism. 
7950_C002.fm  Page 26  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 
27 
Carbohydrates can be characterized by their structure and by the number of
sugar molecules as either monosaccharides, disaccharides, or polysaccharides.
Monosaccharides, such as glucose and fructose, containing one sugar molecule, aresimple sugars. Disaccharides, such as sucrose, contain two sugar molecules, and arealso characterized as simple carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates and typical sourcesin the diet are listed in Table 2.1.
Polysaccharides, with many glucose units chained together, are considered com-
plex carbohydrates. Starches, dextrins, ﬁber, and processed concentrated sugarscompose complex carbohydrates. Maltodextrins are polysaccharides — glucosepolymers — but contain no starch or ﬁber and are metabolized like simple sugars.Complex carbohydrates and typical dietary sources are listed in Table 2.2. 
TABLE 2.1Simple Carbohydrates 
Carbohydrate Comments
Monosaccharides: 
Glucose Also known as dextrose; found in plant foods, fruits, honey
Fructose Also known as fruit sugar; found in plant foods, fruits, honeyGalactose Product of lactose digestion 
Disaccharides: 
Sucrose Also known as white or table sugar; composed of glucose and fructose; 
used as a sweetener
Lactose Composed of galactose and glucose; found in milk and dairy products
Maltose Composed of two glucose molecules; a product of starch digestion 
TABLE 2.2
Complex Carbohydrates 
Carbohydrate Comments 
Polysaccharides:
Amylopectin Starch; found in plant foods and grainsAmylose Starch; found in plant foods and grains
Carageenan Soluble ﬁber; found in the extract of seaweed and used as food thickener and 
stabilizer
Cellulose Insoluble ﬁber; found in the bran layers of grains, seeds, edible skins and peels
Corn Syrup Hydrolyzed starch; found in processed foodsDextrins Starch; found in processed foodsGlycogen Animal starch; found in meat, liverHemicellulose Insoluble ﬁber; found in the bran layers of grains, seeds, edible skins and peelsInulin Soluble ﬁber; found in Jerusalem artichokesInvert Sugar Hydrolyzed sucrose; found in processed foodsLignin Insoluble ﬁber; found in plant cell wallsPectins Soluble ﬁber; found in apples 
7950_C002.fm  Page 27  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
28 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
A. D 
IGESTION 
  
AND 
 A 
BSORPTION 
A wide variety of factors, alone and in combination, can affect the digestion and
absorption of carbohydrates, including the form or structure of the carbohydrate, thetype and content of ﬁber, the type of starch, the presence of other nutrients, the sizeof the food particles, and the methods of cooking and processing. 
3 
 A brief overview
is presented here.
Digestion and absorption of carbohydrates begins to a small degree in the mouth.
Salivary amylases begin the process of digestion for complex carbohydrates byinitiating the breakdown of starches and dextrins. Mastication, or chewing, is alsoan important part of the digestive process to reduce foods to smaller-sized particles.Mechanical action of the stomach continues this process of size reduction, whichinﬂuences both rate of gastric emptying of food from the stomach into the smallintestine and the surface area of the food particles made accessible to intestinalenzymes.
The majority of carbohydrate digestion and absorption occurs in the small
intestine. After moving into the small intestine, the monosaccharides (glucose, fruc-
tose, and galactose) are absorbed directly into the blood via the capillaries withinthe intestinal villi. The disaccharides (sucrose, lactose, and maltose) are split intotheir constituent monosaccharides by disaccharidases, which are then absorbeddirectly into the blood. The complex carbohydrates are acted upon by pancreaticamylase and brush border enzymes that reduce polysaccharides to monosaccharides,which are then absorbed as described above. The monosaccharides that are absorbedinto the intestinal circulation are transported to the liver via the hepatic portal vein.From this point forward, carbohydrate is mostly utilized by the body either asglucose, or in its storage form as glycogen.
Not all of the carbohydrate content of foods that are consumed is digested and
absorbed. The carbohydrate that is not absorbed may be related to the form of the
food, the type of starch, or the amount of ﬁber present in the food. Undigested andunabsorbed carbohydrates go to the large intestine, where they may be digested bycolonic bacteria or excreted in the feces. Large amounts of indigestible carbohydratesor excessive amounts of simple sugars consumed rapidly may result in excessivegas production or gastrointestinal disturbances such as cramping and diarrhea. Theﬁber content of carbohydrate foods, which is largely indigestible by humans, playsan important role in maintaining appropriate gastric transit, may inﬂuence the even-tual glycemic response to the foods consumed, and has important long-term healthimplications. 
B. M 
ETABOLISM 
  
OF 
 G 
LUCOSE 
  
AND 
 G 
LYCOGEN 
The major function of carbohydrates in human metabolism is to supply energy.Brain, retina, and red blood cells are totally dependent on glucose for energy. 
4 
Carbohydrates are also the most important energy source during exercise. Duringhigh-intensity exercise, carbohydrates are the preferred fuel and are almost exclu-sively utilized during maximal- or supramaximal-intensity exercise. Carbohydratesupplementation has been shown in a number of studies to improve enduranceperformance 
5–12 
 The physiological source of carbohydrate used during endurance 
7950_C002.fm  Page 28  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 
29 
performance can be partitioned between endogenous and exogenous sources. Endog-
enous carbohydrate can be thought of as that present in the body prior to any formof supplementation (e.g., liver and muscle glycogen, circulating blood glucose, andglucose derived via gluconeogenesis). Our bodies, however, have a limited abilityto store carbohydrates. The greatest amount of carbohydrate is stored in the formof muscle glycogen, between 300–400 grams, or 1,200–1,600 kilocalories. Glucosefound in the blood totals approximately 5 grams, which is the equivalent of 20 kcals,while the liver contains about 75–100 grams of glycogen, or about 300–400 kcals. 
4 
Therefore, the total body storage of carbohydrate is approximately 1,600–2,000kcals. Exogenous carbohydrate refers to that provided via ingested carbohydrateduring or just prior to exercise. 
The primary carbohydrate source of energy for physical exertion is muscle
glycogen. As muscle glycogen is being used, blood glucose enters the muscle tomaintain the energy requirements of the active tissue. Consequently, the liver will
release some of its glucose to maintain blood glucose and prevent hypoglycemia
(low blood glucose levels). Blood glucose is in short supply, so as it is being usedduring exercise it has to be replenished by liver glycogen stores. A depletion ofglycogen stores may lead to hypoglycemia. Liver glycogen content can be decreasedby starvation or exercise, or increased by a carbohydrate-rich diet. One hour ofmoderate-intensity exercise can reduce about half of the liver glycogen supply,whereas ﬁfteen or more hours of starvation (such as an overnight fast) can virtuallydeplete liver glycogen. Hypoglycemia has been shown to impair the functioning ofthe central nervous system and is accompanied by feelings of dizziness, muscularweakness, and fatigue.
Normal concentration of blood glucose ranges between 4.0–5.5 mmol/L
(80–100 m g/100 mL). Blood glucose concentration can increase after a carbohydrate
meal or decrease after fasting. Maintenance of normal blood glucose is vital tohuman metabolism, thus blood glucose concentration is closely regulated. Anincrease in blood glucose stimulates the beta cells of the pancreas to secrete insulininto the blood. Insulin acts to lower blood glucose by facilitating its entrance intoinsulin-sensitive tissues, most notably muscle and adipose tissue, and the liver. Onthe other hand, low blood glucose levels cause other regulatory hormones to besecreted. Glucagon, secreted by the alpha cells in the pancreas, acts on the hepaticcells of the liver to cause the breakdown of glycogen. Epinephrine, the “ﬁght orﬂight” hormone, acts on liver and muscle, causing glycogenolysis by stimulatingglycogen phosphorylase, thus releasing glucose for muscle metabolism. Glucose canalso be formed in the liver via a process called gluconeogenesis. During starvation,some amino acids like alanine can be converted to glucose. Muscle and red bloodcells oxidize glucose to form lactate. Lactate can then enter the liver and be convertedto glucose. This cyclic conversion, known as the Cori Cycle, allows this “new”glucose to circulate back to the tissue, and may account for approximately 40% ofthe normal glucose turnover.
Glucose enters the cells by facilitative glucose transporters (GLUT). These are
integral membrane proteins that transport glucose down its concentration gradientvia a process known as facilitated diffusion. Five hexose transporters have beenidentiﬁed and cloned. GLUT 1 (erythroid-brain barrier) is the glucose transporter 
7950_C002.fm  Page 29  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
30 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
in the human red cell. It is found in many tissues including heart, kidney, adipose
cells, retina, and brain, but not in muscle or liver. Since it has a high expression inthe brain, it forms part of the blood-brain barrier. GLUT 2 (liver glucose transporter)is expressed in liver, kidney, small intestine, and pancreas. GLUT 3 (brain glucosetransporter) is 64% identical to GLUT 1 and appears to be present in all tissues, butits highest expression is in adult brain, kidney, and placenta. GLUT 4 (insulin-responsive glucose transporter) is a protein transporter that is 50%–65% identicalto the other three glucose transporters. It is the major glucose transporter of insulin-sensitive tissue such as brown and white fat, skeletal, and cardiac muscle. Finally,GLUT 5 (the fructose transporter) has only 40% identity with the other glucosetransporters and appears to transport glucose poorly. It is believed to transportfructose because it is found in high concentrations in human spermatozoa, whichuse fructose as an energy source.
One of the main sources of energy for competitive endurance activities is
acquired via the oxidation of carbohydrate. Carbohydrate supplementation has beenshown in a number of studies to improve endurance performance, 
5–12 
 and numerous
available reviews reiterate this information. 
7,13 
 During endurance exercise at approx-
imately 70% of 
O 
2max 
, research suggests that muscle glycogen is primarily utilized
for muscle ATP synthesis. 
7,14 
C. G 
LYCEMIC 
 I 
NDEX 
Under normal circumstances, the physiological result of carbohydrate consumption,digestion, and absorption is a postprandial increase in blood glucose, followed byan increase in glucose uptake by tissues in the body that is facilitated by insulinsecretion by the pancreas. The time course and magnitude of this glycemic responseare highly variable with different foods and do not follow the basic structuralcharacterization of carbohydrates as simple or complex. For example, the consump-tion of identical amounts of two simple sugars, glucose and fructose, result in verydifferent blood glucose responses. Glucose ingestion provokes a rapid and largeincrease in blood glucose, which in turn rapidly returns to baseline levels. Fructoseconsumption, on the other hand, results in a much slower and lower glycemicresponse. This variability in postprandial glycemic response with different foods hasimportant implications, particularly for those people who must carefully control theirblood glucose level, such as people with diabetes. Because the glycemic responseto carbohydrate consumption is not easily predictable by their characterization assimple or complex, the concept of the GI was created, tested on a variety of foods,and initially published by Jenkins, et al. in 1981. 
2 
The GI is a ranking based upon the postprandial blood glucose response of a
particular food compared with a reference food. Speciﬁcally, the GI is a percentageof the area under the glucose response curve for a speciﬁc food compared with thearea under the glucose response curve for the reference food: 
15&V
GIBlood glucose area of test food
Blood glu=c cose area of reference food⎛
⎝⎜⎞
⎠⎟×100 
7950_C002.fm  Page 30  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 
31 
Glucose or white bread containing 50 g of carbohydrate is typically used as the
reference food. Test foods contain an identical amount of carbohydrate, and the
blood glucose response is determined for either two or three hours after consumptionof the meal. 
16 
 Extensive testing of foods has resulted in the publication of tables of
glycemic indices for a wide variety of foods. 
17 
 Use of the GI has become an important
reference tool for prescribing appropriate diets for clinical populations that have aneed for close regulation of blood glucose, such as people with diabetes. Based asit is on physiological measurement, a high degree of precision cannot be expectedfrom the GI. However, reviews of numerous GI studies indicate a high degree ofconsistency of response with the same foods, within approximately 10–15 units ofmeasurement for most foods. 
16 
 The GI of glucose (GI  
= 
 100) and fructose (GI  
= 
 23)
clearly demonstrates the vast difference in glycemic response that can occur withthe consumption of these two structurally similar monosaccharides.
Athletes may also beneﬁt from considering the GI of the carbohydrates they
consume as well as whether they are categorized as simple or complex carbohydrates.There may be speciﬁc situations where an athlete would want to consume highglycemic index foods and provoke a large blood glucose and insulin response, e.g.,when attempting to synthesize muscle glycogen quickly. 
18 
 Conversely, there may be
occasions when the athlete may want to consume lower GI foods and avoid largeincreases in glucose and insulin. There is controversial evidence that the hypergly-cemia and hyperinsulinemia associated with high GI foods consumed shortly beforethe onset of endurance exercise suppresses fat oxidation and may have a negativeimpact upon subsequent performance. 
19 
 Therefore, the concept of the GI will be
revisited in the sections on carbohydrate manipulation that follow. 
III. CRITICAL PERIODS FOR CARBOHYDRATE 
MANIPULATION 
Substantial research on the effect of carbohydrate intake on exercise performancehas been published. In general, carbohydrate manipulation has been shown to bemost effective for prolonged endurance activities (>2 hours) where carbohydratestores and oxidation may limit performance, or is related to fatigue. A few studieshave indicated a potential ergogenic effect of carbohydrate loading, pre-exercisemeals, or intake during exercise on shorter-duration high-intensity activity, but theevidence is not sufﬁciently strong to deﬁnitively recommend carbohydrate use forimproving performance in these types of activities. 
20 
There are two major considerations athletes must contemplate when making
dietary plans concerning carbohydrate intake. First, for maintenance of long-termhealth, most major health organizations recommend that carbohydrate make up themajority of energy intake. 
21–23 
 Second, athletes must consider the demands of their
sport or activity, and determine if it is appropriate to further manipulate carbohydrateintake in order to positively inﬂuence physical performance in training or competition.
Research of carbohydrate manipulation has typically used simple carbohydrates
in beverages, when consumption of other forms of carbohydrate (e.g., solid food)may be difﬁcult or poorly tolerated. Use of complex/solid carbohydrate duringexercise may not be necessary, unless the exercise task is very prolonged, to the 
7950_C002.fm  Page 31  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
32 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
point that satiety and satisfaction are improved with solid food intake (e.g., ultra-
marathons). An examination of the critical dietary periods for carbohydrate intakefollows, with reference where applicable, to recommendations about complex versussimple carbohydrate intake. 
A. T 
HE 
 D 
AILY 
 T 
RAINING 
 D 
IET 
The ﬁrst consideration for an athlete’s daily training diet is to conform to recom-mendations for a long-term healthy dietary intake. Carbohydrates should make upthe bulk of total energy intake, primarily in the form of grain products, vegetables,and fruits. Individuals should further seek to limit total fat, saturated fat, and cho-lesterol in their diets. The Dietary Guidelines for Americans further recommendsthat people choose a diet that is moderate in sugars. 
21 
 The implication of this
recommendation is an emphasis on complex carbohydrates and some simple sugarsas consumed in grains, vegetables, and fruits, and a reduction in the intake of simplesugars that are typically consumed in soft drinks and snack foods. There is anemphasis on complex carbohydrates because a number of studies have shown anincreased risk of chronic disease, particularly non-insulin-dependent diabetes mel-litus (NIDDM), with a long-term dietary intake of foods with a high glycemic load,especially in conjunction with low ﬁber consumption. 
24 
, 
25 
 By emphasizing a broad
variety of food choices, athletes can easily consume a diet that is adequate incarbohydrate and also contains sufﬁcient vitamins, minerals, and ﬁber.
To reduce the risk of chronic disease and to promote long-term health, a number
of health organizations make basic dietary recommendations that are applicable toathletes. For reduced risk of heart disease, the American Heart Association recom-mends that the diet consist of 55–60% or more of energy intake from carbohydrates,with an emphasis on complex carbohydrates. They further recommend that fatcompose 30% or less of the diet, with 8–10% from saturated fats. 
23 
 To reduce one’s
risk of various common forms of cancer, the American Cancer Society recommendsthat the diet be mainly composed of foods from plant sources, with a minimum ofﬁve servings of fruits or vegetables each day, coupled with a limited intake of high-fat foods. 
22 
 These dietary guidelines are well suited for active and athletic popula-
tions, giving a dietary foundation for long-term health, as well as providing a varieddiet that is predominately composed of carbohydrates for fueling exercise.
Athletes must further consider whether the carbohydrate content of their diets
is sufﬁcient to support optimal performance in training and competition. The rec-ommendation of The American Dietetic Association and The Canadian DieteticAssociation is that, in general, the diet should be 60–65% carbohydrate, and elevatedto 65–70% if the individual is currently engaged in exhaustive training. 
26 
 It is
important to note that total energy intake must be sufﬁcient in order to obtain thenecessary amount of carbohydrate. If total caloric intake is too low, even a diet thatis >70% carbohydrate may yield an inadequate number of grams of carbohydrate.Therefore, carbohydrate consumption should be considered on an absolute basis(number of grams for each kilogram of body weight) to ensure adequate intake.
Carbohydrate content of the diet should be sufﬁcient to maintain muscle gly-
cogen stores during periods of intense training, or muscle glycogen concentrations 
7950_C002.fm  Page 32  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 
33 
will progressively decline. 
27 
 Inadequate muscle glycogen levels may be associated
with diminished training and competitive performance. 
28 
 For those athletes engaged
in exhaustive training, it is apparent that the diet may need to contain up to 10 grams
of carbohydrate per kilogram of body weight each day to adequately replace themuscle glycogen they utilize during their daily training. 
29 
 People involved in activ-
ities or training of lesser intensity and duration do not need to consume this muchcarbohydrate, but should maintain their carbohydrate intake at 7 grams per kilogramof body weight or more, depending on their level (intensity and duration) ofactivity. It may be difﬁcult to consume this large amount of carbohydrate as food,and athletes may want to consider using carbohydrate supplements, particularlyin liquid form, to increase their intake. Liquid carbohydrate supplements have the
added advantage of increasing ﬂuid intake, thus helping the athlete maintain ade-quate hydration levels. 
B. T 
HE 
 W 
EEK 
 B 
EFORE 
  
A 
 P 
ROLONGED 
 E 
NDURANCE 
 E 
VENT 
Manipulation of exercise and carbohydrate content of the diet over a week’s timehas been shown to result in supranormal levels of muscle glycogen, which in turnenhances carbohydrate oxidation and improves endurance capacity in prolongedendurance activities such as cycling and running. 
28 
, 
30 
 This strategy is known as
“carbohydrate loading,” or “muscle glycogen supercompensation.” Most studies ofmuscle glycogen supercompensation have shown an increase in “time to exhaustion”during exercise at a moderate to high intensity, but few have assessed the effect onmore valid and reliable measures of endurance performance such as actual compet-itive performance, time trials, time to perform a set amount of work, or use ofprotocols that more accurately mimic competitive events. Additionally, some studieslack placebo controls and utilize procedures such as overnight fasting, consumptionof non-carbohydrate beverages during the exercise test, and other practices nottypical of real-world conditions. A recent study, controlling for many of thesevariables (placebo-controlled and reliable laboratory cycle protocol), found no dis-cernible effect of supercompensation on cycling performance. 
31 
 Further research is
needed to determine the potential beneﬁcial effect of muscle glycogen supercom-pensation on performance.
Early studies showed a near doubling of muscle glycogen following the strategy
referred to as the “classical” carbohydrate loading method. 
28 
 However, this method
has some onerous exercise and dietary demands that may be unacceptable to theathlete preparing for an important competition. Muscle glycogen is depleted withprolonged, exhaustive exercise and is maintained in a suppressed state for the nextthree days with a virtually carbohydrate-free diet. Depleting exercise is performedagain to further reduce glycogen stores, after which the athlete rests and consumesa carbohydrate-rich diet for the three days before the event. While resulting in thehighest muscle glycogen stores, this method of carbohydrate loading may have otheradverse physical and psychological effects that may not be advantageous for sub-sequent performance.
Because of the extreme exercise and dietary manipulations of the classical
carbohydrate loading method, many athletes may choose a more palatable method 
7950_C002.fm  Page 33  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
34 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
referred to as “modiﬁed” carbohydrate loading (Figure 2.1). 
30 
 In this method, athletes
taper their training, following a more realistic exercise preparation during the week
before an important event. Early in the week when the athlete is exercising for longerduration, the diet is manipulated to include a higher percentage of fat and protein,and less carbohydrate (approximately 50% of total calories). The ﬁnal three daysbefore the event, when the athlete is exercising the least, the amount of carbohydratein the diet is increased to 70% or more, stimulating muscle glycogen storage. Theamount of muscle glycogen synthesis following this modiﬁcation is nearly as greatas with the classical method, but the difﬁculties associated with exhaustive exerciseand a period of very low carbohydrate diet are avoided.
The earliest studies did not have a detailed description of the composition of
the diet used, but the carbohydrate content apparently consisted of a combination
of complex and simple carbohydrates. 
28 
, 
30 
 Two more-recent studies have investigated
the efﬁcacy of one type of carbohydrate over the other, and both concluded there
was no advantage of either a predominately simple or a predominately complexcarbohydrate diet in the three-day high carbohydrate period of the loading phase. 
24 
, 
32 
Both types of carbohydrate in the diet increased muscle glycogen similarly, and hada similarly positive impact on subsequent endurance exercise. Carbohydrate loadingis a short-term, relatively infrequent manipulation of diet and exercise, and theincorporation of simple sugars during this period should not pose any signiﬁcantdietary health risk for the athlete. It is recommended, however, that long-term dietarycomposition be composed mostly of complex carbohydrates with a lower glycemicload because of the relationship of chronic low-ﬁber, high-glycemic diets toincreased risk of NIDDM. 
25–33 
FIGURE 2.1 
The modiﬁed carbohydrate loading strategy. (Adapted from Sherman, W.M.
et al. Ef fect of exercise–diet manipulation on muscle glycogen and its subsequent utilization
during performance.  
Int. J. Sports Med. 
, 
 2, 1981.With permission.)"Modified Carbohydrate Loading"
Day1 Day 2 Day 3 Day 4 Day 5 Day 6 Day 7 90 Min Run @ 75%Mixed Diet Hi CHO Diet
70% CHO: 7.75 g/kg/d
20.9 km Time Trial 40 Min
Run
 40 Min
Run
 20
Min
 20
Min Rest50% CHO: 5 g/kg/d 
7950_C002.fm  Page 34  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 
35 
C. T 
HE 
 M 
EAL 
  
BEFORE 
 E 
XERCISE 
The meal consumed just prior to a training bout or competitive event may also be
used to maximize carbohydrate stores in an attempt to improve performance. If thesemeals consist primarily of carbohydrate, they act to maximize muscle and liverglycogen stores before the onset of exercise. It has been conclusively demonstratedthat fasting before prolonged endurance events results in diminished performance,so it is important for the athlete to consume a meal in the hours before long-durationtraining sessions or competitive efforts. 
34 
 The meal should provide adequate energy
and carbohydrate to support the metabolic demands of the exercise, be consumedin adequate time before the onset of exercise to allow for gastric emptying, digestion,and absorption, and also be palatable and acceptable to the athlete.
Carbohydrate meals of 1–2 grams per kilogram body weight eaten 1 hour before
exercise, and meals containing up to 4.5 grams of carbohydrate per kilogram bodyweight consumed 3–4 hours before exercise have been shown to improve enduranceperformance. 
12 
, 
35 
, 
36 
 There appears to be a positive additive effect when pre-exercise
meals are consumed in conjunction with carbohydrate intake during exercise, leadingto substantially better performance than when no carbohydrate is consumed, or whencarbohydrate is consumed only before, or only during exercise. 
12 
A current area of investigation is the possible effect that foods of differing
glycemic indices may have on subsequent performance because of the potential forhyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia at the onset of exercise. 
19 
 Meals high in car-
bohydrate, particularly high glycemic foods, consumed in the hour or so beforeexercise, result in high insulin and decreasing blood glucose at the time that exercisebegins. It has been hypothesized that this glycemic response, coupled with theenhanced glucose uptake by exercising muscle, may result in a “rebound” hypogly-cemia, inhibition of FFA oxidation, and may impair endurance exercise performance.This concern has stimulated a considerable amount of recent research, and has ledto recommendations to consume only low glycemic index foods prior to exercise. 
19 
, 
37 
 
Studies generally show that consuming high GI foods within an hour of the
onset of exercise results in hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia before exercisecompared to low GI foods. At the onset of exercise, this results in a lowering ofblood glucose, a decrease in free fatty acid (FFA) release and oxidation, and a greaterreliance on carbohydrate oxidation during the exercise. However, there are two majorreasons that this should not be of concern to the athlete. First, most studies show adecrease in blood glucose in the ﬁrst 30–60 minutes of exercise, but blood glucosedoes not decrease to the low levels at which symptoms of hypoglycemia are expe-rienced (neuroglucopenia), and very few studies have shown an impairment insubsequent performance. 
38 
 If the exercise is continued for sufﬁcient duration, blood
glucose and insulin generally return to normally expected levels, and most studiesshow that carbohydrate consumption 1 hour before exercise improves performanceregardless of the glycemic index. 
20,38–45 
 
Second, from a practical perspective, most athletes would not choose to eat
within an hour of beginning a long exercise bout. To allow time for adequate gastricemptying and to avoid gastrointestinal discomfort, most people would tend to eat3–4 hours before exercise. This additional time allows for the return of glucose and 
7950_C002.fm  Page 35  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
36 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
insulin toward baseline levels and diminishes any lingering effects of the GI of the
meal consumed. 
46 
 Athletes should pay careful attention to their pre-training and
competition diet to ensure they understand their body’s response to the composition,amount, and timing of their pre-event meal.
In summary, it is important for an athlete to consume a meal before prolonged
exercise in order to maximize endogenous carbohydrate stores. The meal should betimed so that it is largely cleared from the gastrointestinal tract before the onset ofexercise, usually 3–4 hours, to minimize the possibility of gastric upset. The mealshould be largely composed of carbohydrate, and should consist of food(s) the athleteis used to eating. This strategy should be employed consistently in training; newfoods or meal patterns should not be instituted before important competitive events.The glycemic index of the foods consumed is not as important as the familiaritywith, tolerance of, and timing of the meal. For example, in the early morning hoursbefore a marathon, it would be more practical for a runner to consume a familiarhigh carbohydrate breakfast food such as oatmeal (GI  
= 
 61), rather than attempting
to meet an unwarranted recommendation to consume a low glycemic index meal by
consuming a bowl full of lentils (GI  
= 
 30). 
D. D 
URING 
 P 
ROLONGED 
 E 
NDURANCE 
 E 
XERCISE 
  
Endogenous stores of carbohydrate will eventually become depleted during pro-
longed moderate- to high-intensity exercise. Therefore, carbohydrate must be con-sumed in order to maintain a high rate of carbohydrate oxidation. A large body ofresearch provides evidence that consumption of carbohydrate during exercise main-tains blood glucose levels and carbohydrate oxidation and signiﬁcantly improvesboth endurance capacity and performance. 
7 
 Carbohydrate consumption during
cycling exercise apparently does not reduce reliance on muscle glycogen, but main-tains blood glucose as a fuel source for oxidation late in exercise, and clearly resultsin enhanced endurance capacity. 
9 
 A study of runners utilizing an endurance perfor-
mance protocol with published reliability showed a signiﬁcant improvement in timetrial performance when a carbohydrate beverage was consumed. 
47 
Improvements in endurance capacity or performance have been seen when 0.5
to 1.0 grams of carbohydrate are consumed per kilogram of body weight every hourduring exercise. Most studies have focused on carbohydrate intake as simple sugarsor maltodextrins in beverages, while few studies have investigated complex carbo-hydrate or solid food consumption during exercise. Glucose and glucose polymers(maltodextrins) have been shown to be effective, particularly compared with low-GI carbohydrates such as fructose. 
48 
Consuming carbohydrate in the form of a liquid beverage, or sports drink, is
common during exercise. The consumption of other forms of carbohydrate, e.g.,solid food, may be difﬁcult or poorly tolerated during activities such as running.Other activities, such as cycling, may provide the opportunity for consumption ofsolid food with less discomfort. The few studies of solid food consumption duringendurance exercise show improvements in performance compared with a placebo,but there is no evidence that solid or semi-solid carbohydrate consumption has anyphysiological or performance advantage over carbohydrate intake in liquid form. 
49–52 
7950_C002.fm  Page 36  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 37
There may be circumstances, such as during ultra endurance events, when the
consumption of solid food may enhance the feelings of satiety.
Drinking carbohydrate beverages conveys an additional beneﬁt of aiding ﬂuid
replacement and thermoregulation if exercise is performed in a thermally challengingenvironment. The beverage must be formulated to reach a balance between carbo-hydrate energy delivery and gastric emptying and absorption. Beverages of higherconcentration deliver more energy, but empty from the stomach more slowly.
53 It is
apparent, however, that athletes may consume carbohydrate beverages in concentra-tions up to 10% without impairing thermoregulation.
54 Popular commercially avail-
able sports drinks typically contain between 6% and 8% carbohydrate, and cantherefore be used effectively during endurance exercise. As with pre-exercise meals,athletes should incorporate this feeding strategy during their regular training, par-ticularly during training sessions of long duration, to become accustomed tocarbohydrate intake during exercise, and to determine their individually appropriate
volume of consumption. Sudden introduction of unfamiliar carbohydrate feeding
during exercise may result in gastrointestinal distress, cramping, diarrhea, or vom-
iting, which would likely result in poorer, rather than improved performance.
To date, most endurance performance studies have used glucose or glucose
polymers to assess the beneﬁts of performance during endurance exercise.
9,10,14
Additionally, different types of carbohydrates (such as fructose and the disaccharidesucrose) have been compared with each other.
48,55 Although many of these studies
have demonstrated a beneﬁcial effect of carbohydrate supplementation, many havealso found there is an upper limit to the amount of carbohydrate that can actuallybe absorbed and utilized (i.e., oxidized) by the body during exercise. Due to factorsrelated to the saturation of intestinal sodium-dependent glucose transporters (SGLT-1),as well as possible limitations exerted by the liver, it appears that exogenous glucoseoxidation peaks at 1.0–1.1 g/min.
11,56 Similar investigations utilizing fructose have
demonstrated oxidation rates 20–25% lower (peaking at ∼0.7 g/min) when compared
with glucose, thus suggesting the fructose intestinal transporter (GLUT-5) may actas a limiting factor, with the added possibility that conversion of fructose to glucosein the liver may also limit its oxidation.
55–57 The disaccharide sucrose (composed of
equal amounts of glucose and fructose) also exhibits oxidation rates ( ∼1.0 g/min)
similar to glucose when provided in equal amounts.58 An intriguing step is to thus
combine mono- and disaccharides of various types in an attempt to overcome thesaturation limitation of their individual intestinal transport mechanisms, with aresultant increase in oxidation rates (and presumably endurance performance). 
A progressive series of studies have recently investigated the oxidation rates of
various combinations of mono- and disaccharides in well-trained cyclists exercisingfor 120–150 min at 50% of maximum power (60–63% of
O2max).59–62 A mixture of
glucose and fructose (1.2 g/min glucose and 0.6 g/min fructose) was shown to havea peak exogenous oxidation rate of 1.26 g/min, a value 55% higher than that foundwith a solution of glucose alone.
60 Possibly substantiating the concept of intestinal
saturation, this study also showed that there were no increases in oxidation rateswhen glucose-only solutions providing 1.2 or 1.8 g/min were used.
60 Likewise, no
increases in exogenous carbohydrate oxidation signiﬁcantly above 1.0 g/min havebeen achieved by supplementing either 2.4 g/min of glucose or 1.2 g/min of glucose&V7950_C002.fm  Page 37  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

38 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
combined with 0.6 g/min of the disaccharide maltose.59,61 These ﬁndings suggest
that additional amounts of carbohydrate in the form of glucose ingested above a rate
of 1.2 g/min will not further increase oxidation rates. 
Building on the ﬁndings of the above studies, and the apparent ceiling of
exogenous carbohydrate oxidation that is reached at a glucose intake of 1.2 g/min,the effects of various glucose, sucrose, and fructose combinations and amounts hascontinued to provide interesting ﬁndings. High peak oxidation rates of 1.70 g/minhave been found as a result of ingestion of a mixture providing 1.2 g/min glucose,0.6 g/min sucrose, and 0.6 g/min fructose (for a total of 2.4 g/min of carbohydrate).
61
Of particular note, ingesting a total of 2.4 g/min of carbohydrate in the form of1.2 g/ min glucose and 1.2 g/min fructose has resulted in some of the highest
oxidation measurements to date, resulting in peak oxidation rates of 1.75 g/min.
62 
Oxidation rates for exogenous carbohydrate have thus been shown to be highest
when a prudent mixture of glucose and fructose (1.2 g/min of each) are combinedtogether in a beverage consumed during prolonged exercise. It also appears that amixture of glucose (1.2 g/min), sucrose (0.6 g/min), and fructose (0.6 g/min) can
provide similar oxidation maximums. It seems that glucose consumed in isolation
cannot sustain oxidation rates above 1.0 g/min, and if used in isolation does notneed to be consumed in amounts higher than 1.2 g/min, which comes convenientlyclose to the recommended amount of 60–70 g of carbohydrate per hour typicallyrecommended during prolonged endurance performance. The studies discussedabove provide a strong theoretical basis for enhancing endurance performance viasupplementation with a mixture of speciﬁc mono- or disaccharides. The ability toutilize greater levels of exogenous carbohydrate, especially in the latter stages of anendurance event, while possibly minimizing the use of endogenous carbohydratesources, would seem to hold great potential for maintaining high levels of enduranceperformance. Further research is warranted to determine whether higher carbohy-drate oxidation rates indeed translate into improved endurance performance.
E. I MMEDIATELY  AFTER EXERCISE  
Rapid replacement of carbohydrate stores, especially muscle and liver glycogen, maybe important for many athletes. The athlete that competes in the occasional prolongedendurance event such as the marathon may not have the need for resynthesizing muscleglycogen rapidly, but one who participates in multiple, frequent activities that taxcarbohydrates stores, such as weekend soccer tournaments, may require fast recovery.Rapid replacement of the body’s carbohydrate stores can be achieved if carbohydrateis consumed quickly after depleting exercise. Delay for as little as 2 hours may resultin signiﬁcantly less muscle glycogen synthesis.
63 Therefore, the athlete seeking fast
recovery should consume carbohydrates as soon as feasible after the depleting exercise.
Studies of muscle glycogen synthesis rates in the hours after exhaustive exercise
have shown very rapid resynthesis when carbohydrates in amounts from 0.75 to1.6 grams per kilogram body weight are consumed every hour for 4 hours.
64,65 When
carbohydrate is consumed in a large meal every 2 hours, several studies indicate thelarger amount of carbohydrate intake does not increase the glycogen synthesis rateany further.
65,66 However, at least one study has shown higher rates of synthesis when
smaller carbohydrate meals were consumed more frequently (every 15 minutes).647950_C002.fm  Page 38  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 39
Although rapid muscle glycogen synthesis was seen with this feeding amount and
strategy, athletes should be aware that the rapid consumption of large amounts ofcarbohydrates after exercise may cause gastrointestinal upset.
The form in which the carbohydrate is consumed after exercise may have some
effect on the muscle glycogen replenishment rate. Although classiﬁed as a simple sugar,fructose has a low glycemic response, and its consumption has been shown to result ina slower rate of muscle glycogen synthesis than glucose.
66 Carbohydrate consumed in
equivalent amounts in liquid and solid form appears to result in similar replacementrates for muscle glycogen.
67,68 Studies of simple versus complex carbohydrates have
shown there to be no difference in the amount of muscle glycogen resynthesized in theﬁrst 24 hours after exhaustive exercise, but a diet in which the carbohydrate contentwas 70% complex carbohydrates resulted in greater muscle glycogen content 48 hoursafter exhaustive running.
69 In a study emphasizing the glycemic index of foods, Burke
et al. demonstrated that high GI foods resulted in signiﬁcantly greater muscle glycogen
synthesis in the 24 hours after exhaustive cycling than low GI foods. The increased
insulin and blood glucose response seen after consumption of high GI foods maystimulate a greater short-term synthesis of muscle glycogen, but there doesn’t appearto be any advantage to their consumption after the ﬁrst 24 hours.
18
Another consideration is the inclusion of nutrients other than carbohydrate in
the post-exercise meal. The inclusion of large amounts of fat in the meal is notadvisable, as gastric emptying may be slowed and fat consumption provides neitherthe substrate nor the hormonal environment for optimal glycogen synthesis. Anumber of studies have examined the efﬁcacy of including protein or speciﬁc aminoacids in the post-exercise meal because of the effect they may have on increasinginsulin secretion. When a mixture of wheat protein hydrolysate and the free aminoacids leucine and phenylalanine was added to a post-exercise carbohydrate beverage,higher blood insulin levels and higher muscle glycogen synthesis were found com-pared with a carbohydrate-only beverage.
70,71 The inclusion of protein and amino
acids apparently aids muscle glycogen synthesis when the amount of carbohydrateconsumed is limited, but not when large amounts of carbohydrate are ingested. Theconsumption of 1.2 g/kg/h of carbohydrate stimulates a rate of muscle glycogensynthesis that is not exceeded when protein and amino acids are added.
71,72 The
addition of protein and amino acids may have an additional beneﬁt after exerciseby stimulating protein synthesis and improving net protein balance.
73,74
Athletes requiring rapid replacement of carbohydrate stores should eat or drink
as soon as possible after depleting exercise. They should choose carbohydrates witha high glycemic index, and preferably consume them in small, more frequent mealsrather in large amounts at one time. After this initial replacement period, the normalpredominately complex carbohydrate diet can be resumed.
IV. PRACTICAL RECOMMENDATIONS
1. The basic diet should be consistent with the recommendations for chronic
disease prevention and long-term health promotion. This diet is high incarbohydrate (>55% of total calories), low in fat ( ≤30% of total calories),
and emphasizes a wide variety of foods.7950_C002.fm  Page 39  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

40 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
2. Evaluate the demands of the sporting or athletic activity, both for training
and for competition. If the activity is of high intensity and is repeated
frequently, or it is of prolonged duration, additional manipulation ofcarbohydrate in the diet may be called for during appropriate timeperiods.
3. Carbohydrate intake should be determined as an absolute amount based
on the athlete’s body weight, i.e., grams of carbohydrate per kilogram orpound of body weight (see recommended amounts in Table 2.3). A dietcontaining a high percentage of carbohydrate may be too low in actualgrams of carbohydrate if the total energy intake is insufﬁcient.
4. The majority of carbohydrate intake should be from a variety of foods,
particularly fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. However, if carbohydrateintake needs are extreme, as with intense, prolonged training, considerthe use of carbohydrate supplements.
5. Consider manipulation of carbohydrates during each of the critical time
periods for training and competition. Practice these strategies during train-ing; don’t introduce any new foods or dietary practices before importantcompetitive events.TABLE 2.3Practical Recommendations for Manipulation of Carbohydrate Intake
Time Period Carbohydrate Comments
Daily Training 7–10 g ⋅kg−1⋅day−1
(3.2–4.5 grams per pound)Amount depends upon duration 
and intensity of daily training; may 
need to supplement
Carbohydrate Loading 5 g ⋅kg−1⋅day−1 for 3 days, then 
8 + g ⋅kg–1⋅day−1 for 3 days 
(2.3 then 3.6+ grams per pound)For prolonged events (>2 hours); 
depleting exercise bout followed by tapered training for 6 days
Pre-exercise Meal 1–2 g ⋅kg
−1 1 to 2 hours before, or up 
to 4–5 g ⋅kg−1 3 to 4 hours before 
(0.45–0.90 or 1.8–2.3 grams per pound)Consume familiar foods; time meal 
before exercise to insure complete 
digestion
During Exercise 0.5–1.0 g ⋅kg−1⋅hour−1 
(0.23–0.45 grams per pound)For prolonged events (>2 hours); 
sports drinks up to 10% 
concentration; may consider mixed carbohydrate types (glucose and fructose)
After Exercise 0.75–1.5 g ⋅kg
−1⋅hour−1 
(0.34–0.68 grams per pound)Evaluate need for rapid replacement 
of muscle glycogen; small, frequent feedings beginning as soon as possible for 2 to 4 hours; may consider addition of amino acids or protein7950_C002.fm  Page 40  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 41
V. FUTURE DIRECTIONS FOR RESEARCH
1. Studies of carbohydrate manipulation have predominately used exercise
protocols that measure time to exhaustion at a ﬁxed exercise intensity as
a measure of endurance capacity. Few studies have determined the effectsof carbohydrate consumption on valid and reliable measures of enduranceperformance.
47 Additional research is needed to conﬁrm the ergogenic
advantage of carbohydrate consumption using exercise protocols thatmore closely mimic the demands of competitive athletic performance.
2. Further research is needed to clarify whether the glycemic index of pre-
exercise meals is an important determinant of subsequent performance.Recommendations to avoid high GI foods before exercise are based onwhat are perceived to be the adverse metabolic responses to these meals,while few studies have assessed their impact on endurance performanceusing valid and reliable protocols.
3. Mixing carbohydrate types in a beverage has the potential to increase
carbohydrate uptake and oxidation during exercise. Additional researchis required to determine if this enhanced carbohydrate availability canlead to improved endurance performance.
REFERENCES
1. Bergstrom, J. and Hultman, E. A study of the glycogen metabolism during exercise
in man. Scand. J. Clin. Lab. Invest. , 19, 218–228, 1967.
2. Jenkins, D.J., Wolever, T.M., Taylor, R.H., Barker, H., Fielden, H., Baldwin, J.M.,
Bowling, A.C., Newman, H.C., Jenkins, A.L., and Goff, D.V . Glycemic index of
foods: a physiological basis for carbohydrate exchange. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 34,
362–366, 1981.
3. Christian, J.L. and Greger, J.L. Nutrition for Living;  The Benjamin/Cummings Pub-
lishing Company, Inc.: Redwood City, CA, 1991.
4. Shils, M.E., Olson, J.A., Shike, M., and Ross, A.C. Modern Nutrition in Health and
Disease;  9th ed.; Williams and Wilkins: Baltimore, MD, 1999.
5. Below, P.R., Mora-Rodriguez, R., Gonzalez-Alonso, J., and Coyle, E.F. Fluid and
carbohydrate ingestion independently improve performance during 1 h of intenseexercise. Med. Sci. Sports. Exerc. , 27, 200–210, 1995.
6. Coggan, A.R. and Coyle, E.F. Reversal of fatigue during prolonged exercise by
carbohydrate infusion or ingestion. J. Appl. Physiol. , 63, 2388–2395, 1987.
7. Coggan, A.R. and Coyle, E.F. Carbohydrate ingestion during prolonged exercise:
Effects on metabolism and performance. In Exercise and Sport Science Reviews , John
O.Holloszy, Ed.; Williams & Wilkins: Baltimore, 1991; p. 1.
8. Coyle, E.F., Hagberg, J.M., Hurley, B.F., Martin, W.H., Ehsani, A.A., and Holloszy,
J.O. Carbohydrate feeding during prolonged strenuous exercise can delay fatigue. J.
Appl. Physiol. , 55, 230–235, 1983.
9. Coyle, E.F., Coggan, A.R., Hemmert, M.K., and Ivy, J.L. Muscle glycogen utilization
during prolonged strenuous exercise when fed carbohydrate. J. Appl. Physiol. , 61,
165–172, 1986.7950_C002.fm  Page 41  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

42 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
10. Jeukendrup, A., Brouns, F., Wagenmakers, A.J., and Saris, W.H. Carbohydrate-elec-
trolyte feedings improve 1 h time trial cycling performance. Int. J. Sports Med. , 18,
125–129, 1997.
11. Jeukendrup, A.E., Mensink, M., Saris, W.H., and Wagenmakers, A.J. Exogenous
glucose oxidation during exercise in endurance-trained and untrained subjects. J.
Appl. Physiol. , 82, 835–840, 1997.
12. Wright, D.A., Sherman, W.M., and Dernbach, A.R. Carbohydrate feedings before,
during, or in combination improve cycling endurance performance. J. Appl. Physiol. ,
71, 1082–1088, 1991.
13. Jeukendrup, A.E. Carbohydrate intake during exercise and performance. Nutrition ,
20, 669–677, 2004.
14. Angus, D.J., Febbraio, M.A., and Hargreaves, M. Plasma glucose kinetics during
prolonged exercise in trained humans when fed carbohydrate. Am. J. Physiol. Endo-
crinol. Metab. , 283, E573–E577, 2002.
15. Jenkins, D.J., Wolever, T.M., Jenkins, A.L., Josse, R.G., and Wong, G.S. The glycae-
mic response to carbohydrate foods. Lancet , 2, 388–391, 1984.
16. Wolever, T.M., Jenkins, D.J., Jenkins, A.L., and Josse, R.G. The glycemic index:
methodology and clinical implications. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 54, 846–854, 1991.
17. Foster-Powell, K. and Miller, J.B. International tables of glycemic index. Am. J. Clin.
Nutr. , 62, 871S–890S, 1995.
18. Burke, L.M., Collier, G.R., and Hargreaves, M. Muscle glycogen storage after pro-
longed exercise: effect of the glycemic index of carbohydrate feedings. J. Appl.
Physiol. , 75, 1019–1023, 1993.
19. Walton, P. and Rhodes, E.C. Glycaemic index and optimal performance. Sports Med. ,
23, 164–172, 1997.
20. Neufer, P.D., Costill, D.L., Flynn, M.G., Kirwan, J.P., Mitchell, J.B., and Houmard,
J. Improvements in exercise performance: effects of carbohydrate feedings and diet.
J. Appl. Physiol. , 62, 983–988, 1987.
21. Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2005 ;001-000-04719-1; US Government Printing
Ofﬁce: Washington, DC, 05.
22. Kushi, L.H., Byers, T., Doyle, C., Bandera, E.V ., McCullough, M., Gansler, T.,
Andrews, K.S., and Thun, M.J. The American Cancer Society Guidelines on Nutritionand Physical Activity for Cancer Prevention: Reducing the Risk of Cancer WithHealthy Food Choices and Physical Activity. CA Cancer J. Clin. , 56, 254–281, 2006.
23. Lichtenstein, A.H., Appel, L.J., Brands, M., Carnethon, M., Daniels, S., Franch, H.A.
Franklin, B., Kris-Etherton, P., Harris, W. S., Howard, B., Karanja, N., Lefevre, M.,Rudel, L., Sacks, F., Van Horn, L., Winston, M., and Wylie-Rosett, J. Diet andLifestyle Recommendations Revision 2006: A Scientiﬁc Statement From the Amer-ican Heart Association Nutrition Committee. Circulation , 114, 82–96, 2006.
24. Roberts, K.M., Noble, E.G., Hayden, D.B., and Taylor, A.W. Simple and complex
carbohydrate-rich diets and muscle glycogen content of marathon runners. Eur. J.
Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. , 57, 70–74, 1988.
25. Salmeron, J., Manson, J.E., Stampfer, M.J., Colditz, G.A., Wing, A.L., and Willett,
W.C. Dietary ﬁber, glycemic load, and risk of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitusin women. JAMA , 277, 472-477, 1997.
26. Position of the American Dietetic Association and the Canadian Dietetic Association:
nutrition for physical ﬁtness and athletic performance for adults. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. ,
93, 691–696, 1993.
27. Costill, D.L., Bowers, R., Branam, G., and Sparks, K. Muscle glycogen utilization
during prolonged exercise on successive days. J. Appl. Physiol. , 31, 834–838, 1971.7950_C002.fm  Page 42  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 43
28. Bergstrom, J., Hermansen, L., Hultman, E., and Saltin, B. Diet, muscle glycogen and
physical performance. Acta. Physiol. Scand. , 71, 140–150, 1967.
29. Sherman, W.M., Doyle, J.A., Lamb, D.R., and Strauss, R.H. Dietary carbohydrate,
muscle glycogen, and exercise performance during 7 d of training. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. ,
57, 27–31, 1993.
30. Sherman, W.M., Costill, D.L., Fink, W.J., and Miller, J.M. Effect of exercise–diet
manipulation on muscle glycogen and its subsequent utilization during performance.
Int. J. Sports Med. , 2, 114–118, 1981.
31. Burke, L.M., Hawley, J.A., Schabort, E.J., St. Clair, G.A., Mujika, I., and Noakes,
T.D. Carbohydrate loading failed to improve 100-km cycling performance in a pla-cebo-controlled trial. J. Appl. Physiol. , 88 (4), 1284–1290, 2000.
32. Brewer, J., Williams, C., and Patton, A. The inﬂuence of high carbohydrate diets on
endurance running performance. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. , 57, 698–706,
1988.
33. Salmeron, J., Ascherio, A., Rimm, E.B., Colditz, G.A., Spiegelman, D., Jenkins, D.J.,
Stampfer, M.J., Wing, A.L., and Willett, W.C. Dietary ﬁber, glycemic load, and riskof NIDDM in men. Diabetes Care , 20, 545–550, 1997.
34. Dohm, G.L., Beeker, R.T., Israel, R.G., and Tapscott, E.B. Metabolic responses to
exercise after fasting. J. Appl. Physiol. , 61, 1363–1368, 1986.
35. Sherman, W.M., Brodowicz, G., Wright, D.A., Allen, W.K., Simonsen, J., and Dern-
bach, A. Effects of 4 h preexercise carbohydrate feedings on cycling performance.Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 21, 598–604, 1989.
36. Sherman, W.M., Peden, M.C., and Wright, D.A. Carbohydrate feedings 1 h before
exercise improves cycling performance. Am. J. Clin Nutr. , 54, 866–870, 1991.
37. Guezennec, C.Y . Oxidation rates, complex carbohydrates and exercise. Practical
recommendations. Sports Med. , 19, 365–372, 1995.
38. Thomas, D.E., Brotherhood, J.R., and Brand, J.C. Carbohydrate feeding before exer-
cise: effect of glycemic index. Int. J. Sports Med. , 12, 180–186, 1991.
39. Febbraio, M.A. and Stewart, K.L. CHO feeding before prolonged exercise: effect of
glycemic index on muscle glycogenolysis and exercise performance. J. Appl. Physiol. ,
81, 1115–1120, 1996.
40. Goodpaster, B.H., Costill, D.L., Fink, W.J., Trappe, T.A., Jozsi, A.C., Starling, R.D.,
and Trappe, S.W. The effects of pre-exercise starch ingestion on endurance perfor-mance. Int. J. Sports Med. , 17, 366–372, 1996.
41. Guezennec, C.Y ., Satabin, P., Duforez, F., Koziet, J., and Antoine, J.M. The role of
type and structure of complex carbohydrates response to physical exercise. Int. J.
Sports Med. , 14, 224–231, 1993.
42. Horowitz, J.F. and Coyle, E.F. Metabolic responses to preexercise meals containing
various carbohydrates and fat. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 58, 235–241, 1993.
43. Jarvis, J.K., Pearsall, D., Oliner, C.M., and Schoeller, D.A. The effect of food matrix
on carbohydrate utilization during moderate exercise. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 24,
320–326, 1992.
44. Sparks, M.J., Selig, S.S., and Febbraio, M.A. Pre-exercise carbohydrate ingestion:
effect of the glycemic index on endurance exercise performance. Med. Sci. Sports
Exerc. , 30, 844–849, 1998.
45. Thomas, D.E., Brotherhood, J.R., and Miller, J.B. Plasma glucose levels after pro-
longed strenuous exercise correlate inversely with glycemic response to food con-sumed before exercise. Int. J. Sport Nutr. , 4, 361–373, 1994.
46. Coyle, E.F. Substrate utilization during exercise in active people. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. ,
61, 968S–979S, 1995.7950_C002.fm  Page 43  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

44 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
47. Doyle, J.A. and Martinez, A. L. Reliability of a protocol for testing endurance
performance in runners and cyclists. Res. Q. Exerc. Sport , 69, 304–307, 1998.
48. Murray, R., Paul, G.L., Seifert, J.G., Eddy, D.E., and Halaby, G.A. The effects of
glucose, fructose, and sucrose ingestion during exercise. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 21,
275–282, 1989.
49. Fielding, R.A., Costill, D.L., Fink, W.J., King, D.S., Hargreaves, M., and Kovaleski,
J.E. Effect of carbohydrate feeding frequencies and dosage on muscle glycogen use
during exercise. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 17, 472–476, 1985.
50. Hargreaves, M., Costill, D.L., Coggan, A., Fink, W.J., and Nishibata, I. Effect of
carbohydrate feedings on muscle glycogen utilization and exercise  performance. Med.
Sci. Sports Exerc. , 16, 219–222, 1984.
51. Mason, W.L., McConell, G., and Hargreaves, M. Carbohydrate ingestion during
exercise: liquid vs solid feedings. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 25, 966–969, 1993.
52. Peters, H.P., van Schelven, W.F., Verstappen, P.A., de Boer, R.W., Bol, E., Erich,
W.B., van der Togt, C.R., and de Vries, W.R. Exercise performance as a function ofsemi-solid and liquid carbohydrate feedings during prolonged exercise. Int. J. Sports
Med. , 16, 105–113, 1995.
53. Murray, R. The effects of consuming carbohydrate-electrolyte beverages on gastric
emptying and ﬂuid absorption during and following exercise. Sports Med. , 4,
322–351, 1987.
54. Owen, M.D., Kregel, K.C., Wall, P.T., and Gisolﬁ, C.V . Effects of ingesting carbo-
hydrate beverages during exercise in the heat. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 18, 568–575,
1986.
55. Massicotte, D., Peronnet, F., Allah, C., Hillaire-Marcel, C., Ledoux, M., and Brisson,
G. Metabolic response to [
13C]glucose and [13C]fructose ingestion during exercise. J.
Appl. Physiol. , 61, 1180–1184, 1986.
56. Jeukendrup, A.E. and Jentjens, R. Oxidation of carbohydrate feedings during pro-
longed exercise: current thoughts, guidelines and directions for future research. Sports
Med. , 29, 407–424, 2000.
57. Massicotte, D., Peronnet, F., Brisson, G., Bakkouch, K., and Hillaire-Marcel, C.
Oxidation of a glucose polymer during exercise: comparison with glucose and fruc-tose. J. Appl. Physiol. , 66, 179–183, 1989.
58. Wagenmakers, A.J., Brouns, F., Saris, W.H., and Halliday, D. Oxidation rates of orally
ingested carbohydrates during prolonged exercise in men. J. Appl. Physiol. , 75,
2774–2780, 1993.
59. Jentjens, R.L., Venables, M.C., and Jeukendrup, A.E. Oxidation of exogenous glucose,
sucrose, and maltose during prolonged cycling exercise. J. Appl. Physiol. , 96,
1285–1291, 2004.
60. Jentjens, R. L., Moseley, L., Waring, R. H., Harding, L. K., and Jeukendrup, A.E.
Oxidation of combined ingestion of glucose and fructose during exercise. J. Appl.
Physiol. , 96, 1277–1284, 2004.
61. Jentjens, R.L., Achten, J., and Jeukendrup, A.E. High oxidation rates from combined
carbohydrates ingested during exercise. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 36, 1551–1558,
2004.
62. Jentjens, R.L. and Jeukendrup, A.E. High rates of exogenous carbohydrate oxidation
from a mixture of glucose and fructose ingested during prolonged cycling exercise.Br. J. Nutr. , 93, 485–492, 2005.
63. Ivy, J.L., Katz, A.L., Cutler, C.L., Sherman, W.M., and Coyle, E.F. Muscle glycogen
synthesis after exercise: effect of time of carbohydrate ingestion. J. Appl. Physiol. ,
64, 1480–1485, 1988.7950_C002.fm  Page 44  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

Utilization of Carbohydrates in Energy Production 45
64. Doyle, J.A., Sherman, W.M., and Strauss, R.L. Effects of eccentric and concentric
exercise on muscle glycogen replenishment. J. Appl. Physiol. , 74, 1848–1855, 1993.
65. Ivy, J.L., Lee, M.C., Brozinick, J.T., Jr., and Reed, M.J. Muscle glycogen storage
after different amounts of carbohydrate ingestion. J. Appl. Physiol. , 65, 2018–2023,
1988.
66. Blom, P.C., Costill, D.L., and V ollestad, N.K. Exhaustive running: inappropriate as
a stimulus of muscle glycogen super-compensation. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 19,
398–403, 1987.
67. Keizer, H.A., Kuipers, H., van Kranenburg, G., and Geurten, P. Inﬂuence of liquid
and solid meals on muscle glycogen resynthesis, plasma fuel hormone response, and
maximal physical working capacity. Int. J. Sports Med. , 8, 99–104, 1987.
68. Reed, M.J., Brozinick, J.T., Jr., Lee, M.C., and Ivy, J.L. Muscle glycogen storage
postexercise: effect of mode of carbohydrate administration. J. Appl. Physiol. , 66,
720–726, 1989.
69. Costill, D.L., Sherman, W.M., Fink, W.J., Maresh, C., Witten, M., and Miller, J.M.
The role of dietary carbohydrates in muscle glycogen resynthesis after strenuousrunning. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 34, 1831–1836, 1981.
70. van Loon, L.J., Kruijshoop, M., Verhagen, H., Saris, W.H., and Wagenmakers, A.J.
Ingestion of protein hydrolysate and amino acid-carbohydrate mixtures increasespostexercise plasma insulin responses in men. J. Nutr. , 130, 2508–2513, 2000.
71. van Loon, L.J., Saris, W.H., Kruijshoop, M., and Wagenmakers, A.J. Maximizing
postexercise muscle glycogen synthesis: carbohydrate supplementation and the appli-cation of amino acid or protein hydrolysate mixtures. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 72, 106–111,
2000.
72. Jentjens, R.L., van Loon, L.J., Mann, C.H., Wagenmakers, A.J., and Jeukendrup, A.E.
Addition of protein and amino acids to carbohydrates does not enhance postexercisemuscle glycogen synthesis. J. Appl. Physiol. , 91, 839–846, 2001.
73. Tipton, K. D., Ferrando, A.A., Phillips, S.M., Doyle, D., Jr., and Wolfe, R.R. Pos-
texercise net protein synthesis in human muscle from orally administered amino acids.Am. J. Physiol. , 276, E628–E634, 1999.  
74. Rasmussen, B. B., Tipton, K.D., Miller, S.L., Wolf, S.E., and Wolfe, R.R. An oral
essential amino acid-carbohydrate supplement enhances muscle protein anabolismafter resistance exercise. J. Appl. Physiol. , 88, 386–392, 2000.7950_C002.fm  Page 45  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

7950_C002.fm  Page 46  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:51 PM

 
47 
3 
Utilization of Fats 
in Energy Production 
Serge P. von Duvillard, Jena Hamra, G. William 
Lyerly, Jonathan A. Moore, and J. Larry Durstine  
CONTENTS 
I.  Introduction ....................................................................................................47
II. Overview of Fat Metabolism.........................................................................48
A. Synthesis of Triacylglycerols (TGs).......................................................48B. Adipose Lipolysis...................................................................................48
III. Nutritional Insights ........................................................................................52
A. Dietary Sources.......................................................................................52
B. Supplementation .....................................................................................53
C. Body Reserves ........................................................................................54D. Toxicity ...................................................................................................54
IV . Effects of Physical Performance....................................................................54
A. FFA Release from Adipose Tissue and Delivery to Muscle .................54B. Lipolysis During Exercise ......................................................................55C. Muscle Triacylglycerol ...........................................................................56
1. IMTG Stores During Exercise ........................................................562. Estimation of IMTG Use During Exercise.....................................57
D. Lipid Ingestion Post Exercise: How Important Is It?............................57
V . Future Directions ...........................................................................................58VI. Summary ........................................................................................................59References................................................................................................................59 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Energy sources for skeletal muscle metabolism are fats and carbohydrates; however,energy fuel mobilization and utilization are largely determined by the duration andintensity of the activity. During prolonged lower-intensity exercise performance,lipid oxidation becomes predominant, while high-intensity exercise utilizes carbo-hydrate metabolism. Triacylglycerols represent the largest fuel reserve in the body,with most stored in adipose tissue ( 
∼ 
17,500 mM) and to a lesser extent, skeletal
muscle ( 
∼ 
300 mM) and plasma ( 
∼ 
0.5 mM). 
1 
 Furthermore, the amount of lipid stored
in the body exceeds glycogen stores by approximately 50 times. 
1 
  
7950_C003.fm  Page 47  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

 
48 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
Fatty acid oxidation during sustained prolonged physical activity delays glyco-
gen depletion and hypoglycemia. Utilization of fatty acids requires the hydrolysis
of triacylglycerols from adipose tissue, muscle, and plasma. The increased hydrolysisfrom adipose tissue requires the delivery of fatty acids to skeletal muscle mitochon-dria for oxidation. 
1 
 However, the release of free fatty acids (FFAs) into blood and
the concentration of plasma FFAs are not closely matched to energy need. 
2 
 While
vigorous exercise results in an initial fall of plasma FFA usage, a progressive increasein the release of FFAs is seen following prolonged exercise as a result of increasedrates of lipolysis. 
2 
 Exercise-induced increases in catecholamine levels and concurrent
decreases in plasma insulin concentrations mediate the increased lipolysis rates andtherefore FFA release. Therefore, working muscles progressively increase the uptakeand oxidation of FFAs due to increasing plasma concentrations. Surprisingly, intra-muscular triacylglycerol stores still provide more than half of the oxidized fat,although the contributions of fats from muscle decrease as they are depleted. 
2 
 
The use of triacylglycerols as an energy source requires the coordination and
regulation of lipolysis in adipocytes, adipose tissue blood ﬂow, and skeletal muscle
blood ﬂow. However, triacylglycerol’s role as an energy substrate is dependent not
only on exercise intensity and duration but is also modulated by other factors, suchas endurance training, diet, age, and gender. As carbohydrate storage is limited andfat yields more than twice the energy of carbohydrates, bodily actions that increasefat utilization will ultimately improve exercise endurance. Therefore, this chapterexamines some of the recent advances and current evidence that address the issuesof fat metabolism associated with exercise and human performance. 
II. OVERVIEW OF FAT METABOLISM
A. S 
YNTHESIS 
  
OF 
 T 
RIACYLGLYCEROLS 
 (TG 
S 
) 
Lipid storage sites are found in all tissue including muscle but are most apparent in fatcells or adipocytes. Lipid fuel sources during exercise include circulating plasma tria-cylglycerol and free fatty acids, as well as muscle triacylglycerol. TGs, nonpolar, non-water-soluble molecules composed of three fatty acid chains esteriﬁed to a glycerolmolecule, represent a non-ionic storage form of FFAs. Exogenous TGs are broken downinto two FFAs and one 2-monoacylglycerol molecule. Short-chain FFAs are watersoluble and can be freely absorbed and transported to the liver. However, long-chainFFAs are not water soluble and must be resynthesized to TGs in the mucosal cells ofthe intestinal tract. From there, TGs are incorporated into chylomicrons that absorb TGsinto the general circulation via intestinal lymph, thus bypassing the liver. EndogenousTGs are synthesized in the liver from plasma FFAs or glucose and are then transportedin the plasma by VLDL (very low density lipoproteins). 
3 
 Due to their nonpolar nature,
TGs can be stored compactly as fat droplets in adipocytes and muscle cells. 
4 
B. A 
DIPOSE 
 L 
IPOLYSIS 
Hydrolysis of TGs in adipocytes results in three molecules of non-esteriﬁed FFAs(NEFA) and one molecule of glycerol. Re-esteriﬁcation of NEFA does not occur inadipocytes as they lack the enzyme glycerol kinase, which controls the esteriﬁcation of 
7950_C003.fm  Page 48  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

 
Utilization of Fats in Energy Production 
49 
NEFA and glycerol into TGs. 
8 
 Hydrolysis of TGs is controlled by the rate-limiting
enzyme, hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL). HSL, acting on TGs in adipose tissue, results
in the formation of 2 FFAs and one monoacylglycerol molecule. Monoacylglycerol lipasethen metabolizes the monoacylglycerol molecule to one FFA and one glycerol molecule. 
4 
 
Phosphorylation activates HSL, which then shifts from the cytosol to the surface
of the lipid storage droplet. HSL works at the cytosol–lipid droplet interface. Thesubstrate concentration at the interface not only inﬂuences the rate of lipolysis, butalso the speciﬁc fatty acids generated (Figure 3.1). Speciﬁcally, fatty acids mobilizedfrom lipid droplets contain a higher concentration of highly unsaturated fatty acidsin relation to long-chain saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids and this ratiomay be determined by the overall shape of the binding pocket in HSL. 
5,6 
 
HSL is regulated by several hormones, primarily the two catecholamines nore-
pinephrine and epinephrine, and also by insulin. Catecholamines regulate the activityof HSL through activation of adrenergic receptors on adipocyte membranes. Activa-
tion of  
β 
1 
 and  
β 
2 
 adrenoreceptors activates HSL, thereby stimulating lipolysis, while
activation of  
α 
2 
 adrenoreceptors is inhibitory. Adrenergic receptors are G protein
coupled receptors.  
β 
-adrenoreceptors are coupled to the G 
s 
 protein, with activation
resulting in the formation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), while  
α 
-
adrenoreceptors are coupled to the G 
i 
 protein, which inhibits the formation of cAMP. 
FIGURE 3.1 
Simpliﬁed diagram of lipid mobilization into and from adipose tissue (DAG  
= 
diacylglycerol; HSL  
= 
 hormone-sensitive lipase; MAG  
= 
 monocylglycerol; NEFA  
= 
 non-
esteriﬁed fatty acids; TAG  
= 
 tricylglycerol).Glucose
Glycerol - 3 - P
ESTERIFICATION
TAG DAG MAG GLYCEROL
HYDROLYSIS
(HSL)NEFA EXTRA CELLULAR
MATRIX
POLAR AQUEOUS
PHASEADIPOCYTE
CytosolAcyl-CoAGlucose
NEFA
NEFA NEFA
GLYCEROL+APOLAR
LIPID
PHASE
FAT
DROPLETTAGPlasma Membrane
TRANSPORT
DIFFUSION 
7950_C003.fm  Page 49  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

 
50 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
cAMP activates protein kinase A, which in turn phosphorylates HSL. During exercise,
circulating catecholamines, primarily epinephrine, rise. As epinephrine has a higherafﬁnity for  
β 
-adrenoreceptors, the result is an increased rate of lipolysis (Figure 3.2). 
7 
 
Lipolysis is inhibited by insulin, and insulin suppresses HSL activity. Insulin
activates phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), which activates phosphodiesterase-3,resulting in the suppression of cAMP formation. 
7,8 
 Growth hormone also stimulates
the activity of HSL, though the mechanism is poorly understood. The lipolytic actionof growth hormone, which appears to involve several steps, is modulated by a numberof paracrines, such as adenosine and the prostaglandins. Furthermore, several cytok-ines, including TNF- 
α 
 and IL-6, also stimulate lipolysis. 
8 
 
Under normal physiological conditions, lipolysis is controlled primarily by hor-
monal signaling and energy needs (see Table 3.1). The response to a given hormone 
FIGURE 3.2 
The lipolytic cascade (a2  
= 
 alpha2-adrenergic receptor; ATP  
= 
 adenosine triph-
osphate; B  
= 
 beta-adrenergic receptor; cAMP  
= 
 cyclic adenosine monophospate; Gi  
= 
 inhibitory
G protein; Gs  
= 
 stimulatory G protein; HSL  
= 
 hormone-sensitive lipase; P  
= 
 phospate group).Fatty Acids and Glycerol
Cell Membrane
GSCatecholamines
Adenylate cyclase Gi
+_
+ATP cAMP
cAMP-dependent
   protein kinase
HSL P HSL -
HSL -P
TriacylglycerolP Perilipins 
7950_C003.fm  Page 50  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

 
Utilization of Fats in Energy Production 
51 
TABLE 3.1
Lipolytic Regulators and Their Proposed Mechanisms of Action 
Factor Proposed Mechanism of Action
Lipolytic Stimulators 
Catecholamines (Epinephrine 
and Norepinephrine)
Growth Hormone (GH)
Cortisol• Stimulate  
β 
-adrenergic receptors and interact with 
G 
s 
 proteins on plasma membrane
• Activate adenylate cyclase, initiating a cascade of 
signals culminating in the activation of HSL
• Increases catecholamine-stimulated lypolysis
• Increases in secretion overnight, and thus may be 
important for regulating nocturnal lypolysis
• Apparently modiﬁes lipolytic rate over several hours 
and thus may have little or no acute effect on lipolysis during acute exercise
• Increases posttranscriptional  
β 
-adrenergic receptor expression
• Increases the lipolytic response to catecholamines
Thyroid Hormones • Upregulate adipocyte  
β 
-adrenergic receptor expression
• Decrease phosphodiesterase
Cytokines • Tumor necrosis factor  
α 
 (TNF 
α 
) increases lipolysis by 
downregulating G 
i 
 proteins
Leptin • Stimulates lipolysis independently of the adenylate cyclase 
cascade
• Perhaps acts through inhibition of phosphodiesterase• May involve NO• Enhances glycerol release without a proportional increase in 
fatty acids
Testosterone • Increases catecholamine-stimulated lipolysis via increased  
β 
-
receptor expression and enhanced adenylate cyclase activity
• May require GH for action 
Lipolytic Inhibitors 
InsulinCatecholamines (Epinephrine 
and Norepinephrine)
Insulin-like growth factor-1 
(IGF-1)
AdenosineProstaglandinNeuropeptide Y (NPY)• Increases phosphodiesterase activity, which leads to a reduction 
in cAMP
• Stimulate  
α 
2 
-adrenergic receptors and interact with G 
i 
 proteins 
on plasma membrane, which inhibits adenylate cyclase
• Likely inhibits lipolysis in a manner similar to insulin (via 
phosphorylation of phosphodiesterase)
• May interfere with lipolysis induced by growth hormone• Stimulates adenosine receptors, which inhibit adenylate cyclase 
by interacting with G 
i 
 proteins on the plasma membrane 
(similar to  
α 
2 
-adrenergic receptors)
• Prostaglandin E 
1 
 and E 
2 
 inhibits lipolysis via interaction with 
G 
i 
 proteins
• Inhibits adenylate cyclase through interaction with G 
i 
 proteins 
7950_C003.fm  Page 51  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

 
52 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
is determined not only by hormone concentration, but also by receptor densities and
responsiveness, of which the location of adipose tissue plays a major role. Thisresults in signiﬁcantly different lipolytic rates, and therefore NEFA availability,depending on the location of adipose tissue. 
Physiological conditions affect the energy needs and hormonal signaling that
control lipolysis and NEFA release, i.e., resting post-absorptive state, resting post-prandial state, and exercise, etc. The post-absorptive phase, which is a short-termperiod of fasting, results in mobilization of energy stores, release of NEFA, and theincrease in lipolysis in adipocytes via HSL. A reduction in plasma insulin is theprimary stimulus for the increase in lipolysis. 
9 
 In contrast, in the postprandial state
there is a reduction in HSL activity and therefore lipolytic rate. Elevation of insulinlevels is the primary signal mediating suppression of lipolysis after a mixed meal.Moreover, re-esteriﬁcation of NEFA, resulting in the formation of TGs, is alsomediated by insulin. 
10 
 However, after a high-fat meal, most circulatory NEFA is
derived from intravascular lipolysis as a result of lipoprotein lipase activity. 
11 
  
III. NUTRITIONAL INSIGHTS
A. D 
IETARY 
 S 
OURCES 
As previously mentioned, the length of fatty acid chains inﬂuences their metab-
olism in the body. While all fatty acids are bonded to a single glycerol molecule,they may have one or more double bonds between carbon atoms; those fatty acidswith one double bond are referred to as monounsaturated fats, and fatty acids withmore than one double bond are known as polyunsaturated fats. If there are no doublebonds, the fat (fatty acids) is said to be saturated. The degree of saturation in fattyacids, together with the length of the chains, determines the kind of fat. Saturatedfats, which have no double bonds and tend to have longer fatty acid chains, aregeometrically more linear and are usually solid at room temperature. These saturatedfats are derived primarily from animal sources, in such products as meats and dairy(milk, butter). Unsaturated fats, however, are almost never solid at room temperature,due to the double bonds and shorter length of the fatty acids. The double bonds causea slight change or twist in the molecular shape of the chain, and as a result thetriglyceride molecules cannot associate as well with each other. The result is an oily,rather than solid, consistency. Unsaturated (both mono- and polyunsaturated) fats thatare commonly found are almost exclusively derived from plant sources, e.g., oliveoil. Research has demonstrated a strong positive association between the unsaturatedfat variety and better health, especially health of the cardiovascular system.
Another type of fat is called “trans fat.” Trans fats are synthetic fats produced
by infusing unsaturated fats with H ions at the double bond sites, creating a newlysaturated molecule. This process, however, results in a different orientation of thehydrogen atoms around the carbon atoms when compared with naturally occurringsaturated fats (e.g., elaidic acid). Trans fats are hydrogenated or partially hydroge-nated vegetable oils, most margarines, and shortening. They are extensively used bythe fast-food industry. Several Western countries (e.g., Denmark and Canada) tightlyregulate human consumption of trans fats. Several have requested better labeling 
7950_C003.fm  Page 52  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

 
Utilization of Fats in Energy Production 
53 
and content identity of trans fats for human consumption. Trans fats have received
attention as increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease even more than the naturalsaturated fats. In contrast, certain unsaturated fats contain omega-3 fatty acids(unsaturated fatty acids with a double bond at the omega-3 carbon), which maydecrease the risk of cardiovascular disease by mitigating inﬂammatory processes. 
58 
B. S 
UPPLEMENTATION 
Research has addressed the question of whether there are physiologically feasible sup-plements that could increase lipid metabolism. One such supplement that has receivedattention is L-carnitine. In the body’s cells, carnitine is an important protein responsiblefor shuttling fatty acyl-coA across the inner mitochondrial membrane into the mitochon-drial matrix to undergo oxidative metabolism. The enzymes that catalyze this reactionare known collectively as carnitine acyl transferase 1, or CAT1. 
12 
 When taken as a
supplement, however, L-carnitine in the muscle has been shown to remain unchangedfollowing supplementation, 
13 
 and does not decrease following a single prolonged exercise
session. 
14 
 A recent study also concluded that L-carnitine taken as a supplement with
exercise in untrained individuals does not have a positive effect on lipid metabolism. 
15 
Diet is also a regulatory factor for fatty acid oxidation. High carbohydrate avail-
ability is associated with a decrease in lipid oxidation. Conversely, both short-termand long-term high-fat diets are associated with a decrease in carbohydrate reservesthat results in increased utilization of fats as an energy source. Moreover, long-termhigh-fat diets may induce mitochondrial adaptations that increase fat oxidation. 
16 
Although primarily linked with decreased adipose lipolysis resulting from increasedinsulin levels, decreased fat oxidation, present knowledge suggests, results in part fromdecreased long-chain fatty acid entry into mitochondria. 
16,17  
For example, several inves-
tigations report that fat oxidation by skeletal muscle during exercise is the primaryfactor for increased fat oxidation following a high-fat diet. 
18,19 
 In addition, Rowlands
and Hopkins 
20 
 found that a 2-week high-fat diet also increased fat oxidation during
exercise and enhanced ultra-endurance cycling performance compared with a highcarbohydrate diet. However, carbohydrate loading prior to exercise did not enhancethe effects of the high-fat diet on performance. 
20 
 Conversely, Coyle and coworkers
have reported that an extremely low fat, high carbohydrate diet resulted in a reductionin fat oxidation and intramuscular triacylglycerol concentrations during exercise. 
21 
 
Increased availability of plasma FFAs increases utilization of fat and thus spares
muscle and liver glycogen. While long-chain (C 
16-22 
) TGs are usually not available
while one is exercising, medium-chain (C 
8-10 
) TGs are quickly oxidized. 
22 
 Lambert
et al. 
22 
 report that consumption of medium-chain TGs combined with carbohydrate
spares muscle carbohydrate stores during 2 hours of submaximal cycling exercise(<70% and improves 40 km time trial performance. 
22 
 In addition, the same
investigators examined chronic exercise training metabolic adaptations and their effectson substrate utilization and prolonged performance when athletes ingest a diet high infat (<70% by energy). Their data showed that the body adapted to the fat diet, andafter 2–4 weeks gained a nearly 2-fold increase in resistance to fatigue during pro-longed, low- to moderate-intensity cycling (<70% 
22 
 Similarly, Helge and
coworkers found that a fat-rich diet resulted in increased fat oxidation and decreasedcarbohydrate oxidation. 
23 
 Lean body mass has a profound effect on fat oxidation.&VO2Peak)
&VO2Peak). 
7950_C003.fm  Page 53  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

 
54 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
Although diet has a major effect on substrate oxidation, prior athletic training does
not have an effect on substrate oxidation in a controlled respiration chamber.  
29 
A high-fat diet with carbohydrate restoration may affect metabolism and per-
formance during ultra-endurance exercise. 
24 
 Six days of exposure to a high-fat, low-
carbohydrate diet followed by 1 day of carbohydrate restoration increased fat oxi-dation during 5 hours of submaximal cycling exercise in seven competitive athletes.The study failed to detect a signiﬁcant performance beneﬁt in a 1-hour time trialafter 4 hours of continuous cycling. 
24 
  
C. B 
ODY 
 R 
ESERVES 
  
Humans, like all animals, store the majority of their energy as fatty acids. Thesefatty acids are esteriﬁed to TG. TG, an efﬁcient energy storage molecule, is packagedinto lipid droplets similar to lipoproteins. Storing fat as TGs plays an integral partin the body’s energy homeostasis. Almost every adult has TG stores that equal over80,000 kcal of potential energy. This amount is over 40 times greater than the amountof energy that is stored in both skeletal muscle and the liver. To put this in perspective,the available energy stores of TG are enough to fuel a person to complete over 25marathon races. 
25 
 However, to use this energy, TGs must ﬁrst be hydrolyzed. This
will result in the release of fatty acids that must be delivered to the tissues wherethey will be oxidized. This process requires the coordinated regulation of lipolysis,blood ﬂow and fatty acid transport in skeletal muscle to enhance the delivery ofreleased fatty acids from adipose tissue to the mitochondria of working muscle. 
25 
D. T 
OXICITY 
  
An excess of fatty acids, especially nonesteriﬁed fatty acids (NEFA), can accumulate inthe parenchymal cells of many non-adipose tissues, including skeletal and cardiac myo-cytes, hepatocytes, and pancreatic -cells. 
26 
 This excess of fatty acids is termed lipotoxicity.
The accumulation of fatty acids can result in chronic cellular dysfunction and injury thathas been associated with several diseases. These include insulin resistance, pancreatic -cell dysfunction, cardiomyopathy, steatohepatitis, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. 
26,27 
This negative effect is usually seen in the obese and not trained individuals.
Exercise seems to have positive effects on TG stores as compared with the
negative effects that occur in the obese. The major difference proposed is that thereis a higher skeletal muscle contractile activity in trained individuals than in the obese.This increased muscle activity results in an increased  
β 
-oxidation capacity, which
results in a higher turnover rate of TGs and leads to a reduction of peroxidation. 
28 
In the obese, this decreased skeletal muscle activity results in a decreased  
β 
-
oxidation capacity and an aggregation of TGs leading to an increase of peroxidation. 
28 
IV. EFFECTS OF PHYSICAL PERFORMANCE
A. FFA R 
ELEASE 
  
FROM 
 ADIPOSE  TISSUE AND DELIVERY  TO MUSCLE
FFA availability is a critical factor in the regulation of FFAs as an energy source.Plasma FFAs, bound to albumin, are stored as fat droplets in most tissue, but the7950_C003.fm  Page 54  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

Utilization of Fats in Energy Production 55
fat must be transported to muscle cells in order for oxidation to occur. FFAs are
primarily mobilized from adipose tissue; this process is dependent on the rate oflipolysis.
4 Movement of FFAs across muscle cell membranes is mediated and facil-
itated by the transport protein fatty acid-binding protein (FABPPM). Once inside the
cell, the cytoplasmic fatty acid binding proteins (FABPC) regulate the intracellular
transport of FFAs to the mitochondria. Entry into the mitochondria is another siteof regulation. Long-chain fatty acids (LCFA), unlike medium-chain fatty acids(MCFA), require a transporter to enter the mitochondria, which may limit LCFAoxidation during high-intensity exercise. Finally, oxidative capacity, which is depen-dent primarily on β-oxidative and Krebs cycle enzymes, may also modulate FFA
oxidation rates.
16 A recent study corroborated the primary importance of these
myocellular mechanisms rather than the vascular delivery of plasma FFA; net legtotal FFA was measured in subjects before and after different exercise intensitiesand durations, and FFA uptake was found to be unaffected.
30 Although exercise is
an important regulator of energy balance, chronic exercise training has little effecton substrate oxidation in adipose tissue.
29
B. L IPOLYSIS  DURING  EXERCISE
Many studies have addressed the effect of various exercise intensities and durationon lipolysis of adipose tissue in both men and women. Low-intensity exercise(25% increases adipose tissue TG lipolysis, resulting in increased levels ofFFAs available for oxidation by exercising skeletal muscle.
31,32 Lipolysis in adipose
tissue appears to be highest during low-intensity exercise (25% and doesnot increase over extended time periods. Although lipolysis in peripheral adipocytesdoes not increase with moderate exercise intensity (65% there is an increasein oxidation of plasma FFAs along with a decrease in oxidation of muscle glycogenand TGs over time. In contrast, plasma FFAs decrease as exercise intensity increasesto 85% suggesting that reduced availability of plasma FFAs contributes tothe decline in lipid oxidation as exercise intensity increases from 65% to 85%
.
33 
Endurance exercise training results in adaptations in fat and carbohydrate metab-
olism. When compared with untrained healthy controls, endurance-trained cyclistshave an increased resting rate of TG lipolysis and an increased appearance of plasmaFFAs, FFA oxidation rate, and TG-FFA cycling. Therefore, endurance exercisetraining results in an increased lipid kinetic proﬁle at rest.
34 Furthermore, Phillips
and coworkers demonstrated that endurance training resulted in increased fat oxi-dation during moderate-intensity exercise after only 5 days of training. Moreover,long-term training (31 days) resulted in greater utilization of intramuscular TGs(IMTGs) and reduced oxidation of glucose.
35 In support of these data, Schrauwen
et al.36 showed that a 3-month low-intensity endurance-training program increases
resting and exercise-induced oxidation of IMTGs and plasma FFAs.36 Moreover,
these changes appear to be mediated by the up-regulation of lipoprotein lipase mRNAexpression and down-regulation of acetyl-CoA carboxylase-2 mRNA expression.
36
Fat metabolism in endurance-trained individuals is altered even as exercise
intensity increases when compared with untrained individuals. Using tracer methods,&VO2Max)
&VO2Max)
&VO2Max),
&VO2Max,
&VO2Max7950_C003.fm  Page 55  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

56 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
Coggan and coworkers demonstrated that endurance-trained athletes have higher
levels of lipid oxidation following 30 minutes of high-intensity exercise (75–80%VO
2max) than untrained men.37 Moreover, the additional FFAs utilized appear to be
derived from both adipose tissue and IMTGs.37 In contrast, a high-intensity inter-
mittent-training program (HIIT) resulted in greater β-oxidation activity when com-
pared with an endurance-training program. In addition, the HIIT program resultedin a greater loss of subcutaneous fat, possibly by enhancing post-exercise lipidutilization.
38
Endurance exercise training increases adipose lipolysis regulation in part by
circulating epinephrine via β-adrenoreceptors. In vitro  studies suggest that the sen-
sitivity of adipose tissue to epinephrine is increased in untrained individuals follow-ing exercise.
39 In endurance-trained individuals, however, a single exercise session
(1 hour at 70% did not increase in vivo  sensitivity of adipose β-adrenergic
receptors to epinephrine.40 Furthermore, endurance exercise training does not alter
lipolysis or adipose tissue blood ﬂow following an epinephrine infusion duringresting conditions.
41
While lipid metabolism has been well characterized in men, less work has been
completed in women. At the same exercise intensity, women utilize a higher ratio oflipids to carbohydrates than men. Horton and coworkers
42 evaluated fuel oxidation
before, during and after exercise (2 h at 40% as well as on a control day.Under resting conditions (before and after exercise, and a control day), there wereno differences based on sex in substrate oxidation. During exercise, however, womenutilized more fat and fewer carbohydrates as a fuel source than men.
42 Horowitz
et al.43 examined whole-body and regional lipolytic activity, and whole-body and
plasma fatty acid oxidation in six women during 90 minutes of cycle exercise at 50%of pre-training
43 These measurements were completed before and after 12
weeks of endurance training. During this experiment, skeletal muscle content forperoxisome proliferator-activated receptor- α and its target proteins, and medium-chain
and very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase was measured. A 25% increase in wholebody fatty acid oxidation during exercise after the 12-week exercise training periodwas found; exercise training, however, did not change adipose tissue lipolysis. Fur-thermore, exercise training doubled the levels of muscle peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- α and its target proteins: medium-chain and very long-chain acyl-
CoA dehydrogenase. These results suggest that changes in lipid metabolism resultingfrom endurance training are speciﬁc to skeletal muscle and may involve the peroxisomeproliferator-activated receptor- α as a result of metabolic adaptations to training.
43 
C. M USCLE TRIACYLGLYCEROL
1. IMTG Stores During Exercise
While plasma FFAs are the primary energy source utilized during exercise, intra-
muscular TGs stores may also be utilized. FFA availability from muscle TGs ischallenging to determine because of the difﬁculty in distinguishing FFAs that arederived from lipid droplets in muscle ﬁbers from those FFAs originating in adipo-cytes located between the ﬁbers.
4 The adrenergic system, through β2-adrenorecep-
tors, controls the release of FFAs from IMTGs by modulating the activity of a&VO2Max)
&VO2Max)
&VO2Peak.7950_C003.fm  Page 56  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

Utilization of Fats in Energy Production 57
hormone-sensitive lipase similar to that found in adipocytes.16,44 Utilization of
IMTGs is seen primarily in Type IIa muscle ﬁbers (fast-twitch) as opposed to Type
I ﬁbers (slow-twitch), which use FFAs from adipocytes.45
While generally accepted that both adipocyte- and muscle-derived TGs are used
during exercise, some controversy exists regarding the utilization of IMTGs inuntrained individuals.
46 Using skeletal muscle biopsy samples, several investigators
have reported reduced IMTG following prolonged moderate-intensity exercise.44,47
Other investigators, however, have not been able to replicate these ﬁndings usingsimilar protocols.
48 Watt and coworkers48 demonstrated that IMTG was reduced after
120 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise, but further reduction was not noted at240 minutes. These results suggest that reduced utilization of IMTG during pro-longed exercise may reﬂect greater plasma FFA delivery and oxidation.
48 
2. Estimation of IMTG Use During Exercise
Oxidation of IMTG is well documented in endurance athletes.49 For example, IMTG
content in Type I ﬁbers decreases following 2 hours of moderate-intensity exercise
in endurance-trained athletes; however, the oxidation rate of IMTG decreases whileplasma FFA oxidation rate increases over time.
49 In contrast, a short 2-week training
period resulted in increased IMTG content and no change in IMTG utilization duringexercise. These data support the theory that an increase in IMTG content may bean early adaptive response to exercise training, and this adaptation occurs prior tochanges in fat oxidation.
50 While there appears to be a net utilization of IMTG
following prolonged moderate intensity exercise, IMTG does not appear to contributeto enhanced lipid oxidation during recovery from exhaustive glycogen-depletingexercise.
51 Moreover, although IMTG is decreased in active muscle following mod-
erate-intensity exercise, there is a concomitant increase in IMTG in non-exercisingskeletal muscle that is associated with increases in plasma FFAs.
52
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy has been frequently used to measure IMTGs.
Johnson et al.53 used magnetic resonance spectroscopy to assess IMTG content of
vastus lateralis muscle before and after time trial cycling periods of 3-hour duration.In this investigation, six highly trained male cyclists completed a double-blindrandomized crossover design of two experimental trials after a strenuous exercisebout and 48 hours of high- and low-carbohydrate diet. Resting IMTG content wassigniﬁcantly higher after low-carbohydrate versus high-carbohydrate diet and dimin-ished during exercise by 64% and 57%, respectively. IMTG content was not differentbetween conditions after exercise. The absolute degradation of IMTG content wasgreater during long-time low-carbohydrate diet when compared with the high-carbohydrate diet. Four of the six subjects had a reduction in IMTG content exceed-ing 70% during exercise. The results from this study suggest that IMTG stores maybe exhausted by prolonged strenuous cycling exercise.
53 
D. L IPID INGESTION  POST EXERCISE : HOW IMPORTANT  IS IT?
If IMTG is used during exercise, this short-chained fat must be replenished duringa recovery period. However, repeated exercise periods without proper replenishment7950_C003.fm  Page 57  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

58 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
of IMTGs are thought to lead to decreased performance. Few studies have investi-
gated replenishing IMTGs after endurance exercise, and the few that have beencompleted report that high levels of fat intake (35%–57% of total energy intake)will replenish IMTG stores more quickly than low levels of fat intake (10%–24%).
54
The amount of fat needed to completely replenish IMTG stores is estimated atapproximately 2 g • kg
−1 body mass per day.55
In a randomly assigned crossover design, Larson-Meyer et al.56 investigated
changes in IMTG stores from baseline after a 2-hour treadmill run at 67%During the recovery period, subjects consumed a low-fat (10% energy) and amoderate-fat (35%) diet. Utilizing nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic imag-ing before and 9 hours, ∼22 hours, and 70 hours after the running period, Larson-
Meyer et al.
56 showed IMTG content fell by approximately 25% during the endurance
run. The consumption of a moderate fat diet allowed IMTG content to return tobaseline within 22 hours and overshoot at 70 hours post-exercise. Unlike the high-fat diet, IMTG did not return to baseline with the low fat diet even after 70 hourspost-exercise. These results suggest that a certain quantity of dietary fat is required
to restore IMTG stores after running.
56 
High-fat diets are associated with increased lipid content in skeletal muscle
and insulin resistance. Bachman and coworkers57 examined the role of both high-
fat and low-fat diets on IMTG storage and sensitivity to insulin in soleus and
tibialis anterior muscle. While the low-fat diet did not alter IMTG storage orinsulin sensitivity, the high-fat diet resulted in an increase in IMTG storage in thetibialis anterior but not the soleus muscle. Moreover, IMTG storage did not changewith either diet in the soleus muscle. This study demonstrated that increases incirculating NEFA may result in increased IMTG storage as well as decreasedinsulin sensitivity.
57
V. FUTURE DIRECTIONS
In the past 25 years a plethora of information has become available regarding fatconsumption and physical performance. At the same time, information regarding thenegative impact of high-fat diets and disease is overwhelming. Presently, more workis needed to assess the short term use of fat regarding exercise performance and itsimpact on negatively altering risk for disease. The recent USDA recommended dietof 30% fat, 15% protein, and 55% carbohydrates may be optimal for proper IMTGreplenishment for individuals who exercise with at least one or more days of restbetween exercise sessions,
54 but this is an area that still remains clouded. Another
area where further work is needed concerns consuming a diet high in carbohydratesand low in fat during the initial 6 to 8 hours post-exercise in the replenishment ofIMTG fat stores.
54 Additional work in these areas would not only give needed
information on short-term dietary fat consumption and the improvement of exerciseperformance, but could also lead to improved treatment methods for diabetes, obe-sity, and other metabolically related disorders. Unfortunately, little information isknown about whether starting an exercise session with less than normal IMTG willaffect the performance of moderately intense exercise.&VO2Max.7950_C003.fm  Page 58  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

Utilization of Fats in Energy Production 59
VI. SUMMARY
The abundant supply of fats and their high energy content per unit weight
provides a vast potential for energy reserves. What is more important is the utilization
of fats for a fuel source that will spare glucose and glycogen stores. The use of fatsboth from IMTG and adipose tissue during low to moderate intensity exercise (<25%to 65% can then allow for the use of carbohydrates as an energy substratefor times of sustained high-energy demand (>65% Of special interest isthe fact that the capacity for fat utilization is enhanced after endurance exercisetraining. This enhanced fat utilization is characterized by increased adipocyte lipol-ysis resulting in increased plasma FFAs circulating to working tissue and theincreased mitochondrial content found after exercise training. The increased avail-ability of circulating FFAs and the increased number of muscle mitochondria aug-ment superior endurance capacity found after endurance exercise training. One mustremember that enhanced exercise performance as a result of enhanced fat oxidationis seen only at low- to moderate-exercise intensities, because at higher-exerciseintensities (>65% carbohydrates and not fats are the primary fuel for exer-cise performance.
REFERENCES
1. Horowitz, J.F. and Klein, S. Lipid metabolism during endurance exercise. Am J Clin
Nutr 72: 588S–63S, 2000.
2. Holloszy, J.O. and Kohrt, W.M. Regulation of carbohydrate and fat metabolism during
and after exercise. Ann Rev Nutr  16: 121–38, 1996.
3. Despopoulos, A. and Silbernagl, S. Color Atlas of Physiology . 5th edition, Thieme
Publishers, Stuttgart, 2003.
4. Ranallo, R.F. and Rhodes, E.C. Lipid metabolism during exercise. Sports Med  26:
29–42, 1998.
5. Raclot, T. Selective mobilization of fatty acids from adipose tissue triacylglycerols.
Prog Lipid Res  42: 257–88, 2003.
6. Raclot, T. Selective mobilization of fatty acids from white fat cells: evidence for
relationship to the polarity of triacylglycerols. Biochem J  322: 483–89, 1997.
7. Horowitz, J.F. Adipose tissue lipid mobilization during exercise. In: Exercise Metab-
olism Hargreaves, M. and Spriet, L., eds., Human Kinetics, 89–104, 2006 .
8. Stich, V . and Berlan, M. Physiological regulation of NEFA availability: lipolysis
pathway. Proc Nutr Soc  63: 369–74, 2004.
9. Horowitz, J.F., Coppack, S.W., Paramore, D., Cryer, P.E., Zhao, G., and Klein, S.
Effect of short-term fasting on lipid kinetics in lean and obese women. Am J Physiol
276: E278–84, 1999.
10. Evans, K., Clark, M.L., and Frayn, K.N. Effects of an oral and intravenous fat load
on adipose tissue and forearm lipid metabolism. Am J Physiol  276: E241–8, 1999.
11. Frayn, K.N., Summers, L.K.M., and Fielding, B.A. Regulation of plasma non-
esteriﬁed f atty acid concentration in the postprandial state. Proc Nutr Soc  56: 713–21,
1997.
12. Brooks, G.A., Fahey, T.D., White, T.P., and Baldwin, K.M. Exercise Physiology:
Human Bioenergetics and Its Applications . (3rd ed.) Mountain View: Mayﬁeld, 2000.&VO2Max)
&VO2Max).
&VO2Max)7950_C003.fm  Page 59  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

60 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
13. Vukovich, M.D., Costill, D.L., and Fink, W.J. Carnitine supplementation: Effect on
muscle carnitine and glycogen content during exercise. Med Sci Sports Exer ,
26:1122–1129, 1994.
14. Decombaz, P., Deriaz, O., Acheson, K., Gmuender, B., and Jequier, E. Effect of L-
carnitine on submaximal exercise metabolism after depletion of muscle glycogen.
Med Sci Sports Exer , 25:733–740, 1993.
15. Lee, J.K., Lee, J.S., Park, H., Cha, Y-S, Yoon, C.S., and Kim, C.K. Effect of L-
carnitine supplementation and aerobic training on FABPc content and beta-HAD
activity in human skeletal muscle. Eur J Appl Physiol  2006. [e-pub ahead of print].
16. Turcotte, L.P. Role of fats in exercise. Clinics in Sports Med  18: 485–98, 1999.
17. Coyle, E.F., Jeukendrup, A.E., Wagenmakers, A.J.M., and Saris, W.H. Fatty acid
oxidation is directly regulated by carbohydrate metabolism during exercise. Am J
Physiol  273: E268–75, 1997.
18. Zderic, T.W., Davidson, C.J., Schenk, S., Byerley, L.O. and Coyle, E.F. High-fat diet
elevated resting intramuscular triglyceride concentration and whole body lipolysisduring exercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab  286: E217–25, 2004.
19. Schrauwen, P, Wagenmakers, A.J.M., van Marken Lichtenbelt, W.D., Saris, W.H.M.,
and Westerterp, K.R. Increase in fat oxidation on a high-fat diet is accompanied byan increase in triglyceride-derived fatty acid oxidation. Diabetes  49: 640–6, 2000.
20. Rowlands, D.S. and Hopkins, W.G. Effects of high-fat and high-carbohydrate diets
on metabolism and performance in cycling. Metabolism  51: 678–90, 2002.
21. Coyle, E.F., Jeukendrup, A.E., Oseto, M.C., Hodgkinson, B.J., and Zderic, T.W. Low-
fat diet alters intramuscular substrates and reduces lipolysis and fat oxidation duringexercise. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab  280: E391–8, 2001.
22. Lambert, E.V ., Hawley, J.A., Goedecke, J., Noakes, T.D., and Dennis, S.C. Nutritional
strategies for promoting fat utilization and delaying the onset of fatigue duringprolonged exercise. J Sports Sci  15: 315–24, 1997.
23. Helge, J.W., Watt, P.W., Richtor, E.A., Rennie, M.J., and Kiens, B. Fat utilization
during exercise: Adaptation to a fat-rich diet increases utilization of plasma fattyacids and very low density lipoprotein-triacylgylcerol in humans . J Physiol  537:
1009–20, 2001.
24. Carey, A.L., Staudacher, H.M., Cummings, N.K., Stepto, N.K., Nikolopoulos, V .,
Burke, L.M., and Hawley, J.A. Effects of fat adaptation and carbohydrate restorationon prolonged endurance exercise. J Appl Physiol  91: 115–22, 2001.
25. Horowitz, J.F. Fatty acid mobilization from adipose tissue during exercise. Trends
Endocrinol Metab  14: 386–92, 2003.
26. Weinberg, J.M. Lipotoxicity. Kidney Intl  70: 1560–66, 2006.
27. Wolins, N.E., Brasaemle, D.L., and Bickel, P.E. A proposed model of fat packaging
by exchangeable lipid droplet proteins. Fed Eur Biochem Soc  580: 5484–91, 2006.
28. Russell, A.P. Lipotoxicity: The obese and endurance-trained paradox. Intl J Obesity
28: S66–S71, 2004.
29. Roy, H.J., Lovejoy, J.C., Keenan, M.J., Bray, G.A., Windhauser, M.M., and Wilson,
J.K. Substrate oxidation and energy expenditure in athletes and nonathletes consum-ing isoenergetic high- and low-fat diets. Am J Clin Nutr  67: 405–11, 1998.
30. Jacobs, K.A., Krauss, R.M., Fattor, J.A., Horning, M.A., Friedlander, A.L., Bauer,
T.A., Hagobian, T.A., Wolfel, E.E., and Brooks, G.A. Endurance training has littleeffect on active muscle free fatty acid, lipoprotein cholesterol, or triglyceride netbalances. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab , 291: E656–E665, 2006.7950_C003.fm  Page 60  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

Utilization of Fats in Energy Production 61
31. Wolfe, R.R., Klein, S., Carraro, F., and Weber, J.M. Role of triglyceride–fatty acid
cycle in controlling fat metabolism in humans during and after exercise. Am J Physiol
258: E382–9, 1990.
32. Klein, S., Coyle, E.F., and Wolfe, R.R. Fat metabolism during low-intensity exercise
in endurance trained and untrained men. Am J Physiol  267:E934–40, 1994.
33. Romijn, J.A., Coyle, E.F., Sidossis, L.S., Gastaldelli, A., Horowitz, J.F., Endert, E.,
and Wolfe, R.R. Regulation of endogenous fat and carbohydrate metabolism in
relation to exercise intensity and duration. Am J Physiol  265: E380–91, 1993.
34. Romijn, J.A., Klein, S., Coyle, E.F., Sidossis, L.S., and Wolfe, R.R. Strenuous endur-
ance training increases lipolysis and triglyceride–fatty acid cycling at rest. J Appl
Physiol  75(1): 108–13, 1993.
35. Phillips, S.M., Green, H.J., Tarnopolsky, M.A., Heigenhauser, G.J.F., Hill, R.E., and
Grant, S.M. Effects of training duration on substrate turnover and oxidation duringexercise. J Appl Physiol  81(5): 2182–91, 1996.
36. Schrauwen, P., van Aggel-Leijssen, D.P.C., Hul, G., Wagenmakers, A.J.M., Vidal, H.,
Saris, W.H.M., and van Baak, M.A. The effect of a 3-month low-intensity endurancetraining program on fat oxidation and acetyl-CoA carboxylase-2 expression. Diabetes
51: 2220–6, 2002.
37. Coggan, A.R., Raguso, C.A., Gastaldelli, A., Sidossis, L.S., and Yeckel, C.W. Fat
metabolism during high-intensity exercise in endurance-trained and untrained men.Metabolism  49: 122–8, 2000.
38. Tremblay, A., Simoneau, J.A., and Bouchard, C. Impact of exercise intensity on body
fatness and skeletal muscle metabolism. Metabolism  43: 814–8, 1994.
39. Wahrenberg, H, Engfeldt, P., Bolinder, J., and Arner, P. Acute adaptation in adrenergic
control of lipolysis during physical exercise in humans. Am J Physiol  253: E382–9,
1987.
40. Klein, S., Coyle, E.F., and Wolfe, R.R. Effect of exercise on lipolytic sensitivity in
endurance-trained athletes. J Appl Physiol  78: 2201–6, 1995.
41. Horowitz, J.F., Braudy, R.J., Martin, W.H., and Klein, S. Endurance exercise training
does not alter lipolytic or adipose tissue blood ﬂow sensitivity to epinephrine. Am J
Physiol  277: E325–31, 1999.
42. Horton, T.J., Pagliassotti, M.J., Hobbs, K., and Hill, J.O. Fuel metabolism in men
and women during and after long-duration exercise. J Appl Physiol  85: 1823–32,
1998.
43. Horowitz, J.F., Leone, T.C., Feng, W., Kelly, D.P., and Klein, S. Effect of endurance
training on lipid metabolism in women: A potential role for PPAR α in the metabolic
response to training . Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab  279: E348–55, 2000.
44. Cleroux, J., Van Nguyen, P., Taylor, A.W., and Leenen, F.H. Effects of β
2- vs β1- +
β2-blockade on exercise endurance and muscle metabolism in humans. J Appl Physiol
66: 548–54, 1989.
45. Williams, R.S., Caron, M.G., and Daniel, K. Skeletal muscle β-adrenergic receptors:
Variations due to ﬁber type and training. Am J Physiol  246: E160–7, 1984.
46. Watt, M.J., Heigenhauser, G.J.F., and Spriet, L.L. Intramuscular triacylglycerol uti-
lization in human skeletal muscle during exercise: Is there a controversy? J Appl
Physiol  93: 1185–95, 2002.
47. Phillips, S.M., Green, H.J., Tarnopolsky, M.A., Heigenhauser, G.J.F., and Grant, S.M.
Progressive effect of endurance training on metabolic adaptations in working skeletalmuscle. Am J Physiol 270: E265–72, 1996.7950_C003.fm  Page 61  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

62 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
48. Watt, M.J., Heigenhauser, G.J.F., Dyck, D.J., and Spriet, L.L. Intramuscular triacylg-
lycerol, glycogen and acetyl group metabolism during 4 h of moderate exercise in
man. J Physiol  541: 969–78, 2002.
49. van Loon, L.J.C., Koopman, R., Stegen, J.H.C.H., Wagenmakers, A.J.M., Keizer,
H.A., and Saris, W.H.M. Intramyocellular lipids form an important substrate sourceduring moderate intensity exercise in endurance-trained males in a fasted state. J Physiol
553: 611–25, 2003.
50. Schrauwen-Hinderling, V .B., chrauwen, P., Hesselink, M.K.C., van Engelshoven,
J.M.A., Nicolay, K., Saris, W.H., Kessels, A.G., and Kooi, M.E. The increase inintramyocellular lipid content is a very early response to training. J Clin Endocrinol
Metab  88: 1610–6, 2003.
51. Kimber, N.E., Heigenhauser, G.J.F., Spriet, L.L., and Dyck, D.J. Skeletal muscle fat
and carbohydrate metabolism during recovery from glycogen-depleting exercise inhumans . J Physiol  548: 919–27, 2003.
52. Schrauwen-Hinderling, V .B., van Loon, L.J.C., Koopman, R., Nicolay, K., Saris,
W.H.M., and Kooi, M.E. Intramyocellular lipid content is increased after exercise innonexercising human skeletal muscle. J Applied Physiol  95: 2328–32, 2003.
53. Johnson, N.A., Stannard, S.R., Mehalski, K., Trenell, M.I., Sachinwall, T., Thompson,
C.H., and Thompson, M.W. Intramyocellular triacylglycerol in prolonged cyclingwith high- and low-carbohydrate availability. J Appl Physiol  94: 1365–72, 2003.
54. Spriet, L.L. and Hargreaves, M. The metabolic system: Interaction of lipid and
carbohydrate metabolism. In ACSM’s Advanced Exercise Physiology , Lippincott,
Williams and Wilkins: 410–420, 2006.
55. Decombaz, J. Nutrition and recovery of muscle energy stores after exercise. Sport-
medizin Sporttraumatologie  51: 31–38. 2003.
56. Larson-Meyer, D.E., Newcomer, B.R., and Hunter, G.R. Inﬂuence of endurance
running and recovery diet on intramyocellular lipid content in women: a 
1H NMR
study. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab  282: E95–E106, 2002.
57. Bachman, O.P., Dahl, D.B., Brechtel, K., Machann, J., Haap, M., Maier, T., Loviscach,
M., Stumvoll, M., Claussen, C.D., Schick, F., Haring, H.U., and Jacob, S. Effects ofintravenous and dietary lipid challenge on intramyocellular lipid content and therelation with insulin sensitivity in humans. Diabetes  50: 2579–84, 2001.
58. Jeukendrup, A.E. and Aldred S. Fat supplementation, health, and endurance perfor-
mance. Nutrition  20:678–688, 2004.7950_C003.fm  Page 62  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:17 PM

 
63 
4 
Utilization of Proteins in 
Energy Metabolism 
Mauro G. Di Pasquale 
CONTENTS 
I.  Introduction ....................................................................................................64
II. The Structure and Properties of Protein........................................................65
A. Structural, Contractile, Enzymes and Other Proteins ............................65B. Free Amino Acid Pool............................................................................65C. Protein Balance.......................................................................................66
1. Factors Affecting Protein Synthesis and Catabolism......................66
III. Dietary Protein ...............................................................................................68
A. Quality of Proteins..................................................................................69B. Slow and Fast Dietary Proteins..............................................................70C. Effects of Dietary Protein on Protein Metabolism ................................71D. Dietary Reference Intakes and Recommended Daily Allowances.............71
1. How was the RDA Established? .....................................................73
E. Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDa) for Athletes........................75
1. Historical Overview.........................................................................75
F. Effects of Exercise on Dietary Protein Requirements...........................76G. Essential, Conditionally Essential, and Nonessential Amino Acids...........80
1. Essential Amino Acids ....................................................................802. Conditionally Dispensable Amino Acids ........................................813. Nonessential or Dispensable Amino Acids.....................................814. The Distinction is Blurred...............................................................81
IV . Exercise and Protein Metabolism..................................................................82
A. Exercise-Induced Amino Acid Flux .......................................................84
V . Energy Metabolism........................................................................................84
A. Introduction.............................................................................................84B. Metabolic Pathways Producing ATP......................................................85
1. Anaerobic Energy Production .........................................................852. Aerobic Energy Production.............................................................863. TCA Cycle.......................................................................................87
C. Role of Protein and Amino Acids in Energy Metabolism.....................88D. Fate of Dietary Protein ...........................................................................89E. Protein Contribution to Energy Metabolism..........................................90 
7950_C004.fm  Page 63  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
64 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
F. Amino Acid Catabolism .........................................................................90
1. Oxidation of Amino Acids ..............................................................91
G. Gluconeogenesis .....................................................................................92
1. Amino Acids and Gluconeogenesis ................................................93
2. Hormonal Control of Gluconeogenesis...........................................953. Effects of Amino Acids on Hepatic Glucose Metabolism .............96
H. Use of Amino Acids for Energy — Catabolic Effects of Exercise.......96
1. Amino Acid Metabolism in Muscle................................................972. Pathways of Amino Acid Metabolism in Muscle...........................973. Skeletal Muscle Catabolism ............................................................974. Oxidation of Amino Acids ..............................................................98
I. Glucogenic and Ketogenic Amino Acids.............................................101
1. Glucogenic Amino Acids ..............................................................1022. Ketogenic Amino Acids.................................................................1023. Alanine and Glutamine..................................................................1024. Interorgan Exchange of Amino Acids...........................................104
J. Protein Metabolism and Ammonia ......................................................105
1. Metabolism of Ammonia...............................................................1052. Urea Formation by the Liver.........................................................1073. High Levels of Protein Intake and Ammonia...............................108
K. Low-Carbohydrate, High-Protein Diets and Energy Metabolism .......109
1. Metabolic Advantage of a High Protein, 
Low-carbohydrate Diet..................................................................109
2. Low-Carbohydrate Controversy ....................................................111
VI. Conclusions and Recommendations ............................................................112References..............................................................................................................113 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Of the three macronutrients — carbohydrates, fats and protein — that compose ourfood, protein is the most important and versatile. Not only do proteins make up threequarters of body solids 
1 
 (including structural and contractile proteins, enzymes,
nucleoproteins, and proteins that transport oxygen) but protein and amino acids havepotent biological effects that involve all tissues in the body and extend to almost allmetabolic processes. 
There is a vast body of research on the effects of protein and the individual amino
acids on athletic performance. The results of this research have shown that not onlydo athletes need more protein than their sedentary counterparts, but has also describedthe profound effects that protein and amino acids have on athletic performance, pri-marily on muscle size and strength, energy metabolism, and immune function. 
Since all cells in the body require energy for maintenance, repair, growth, and
to maintain function, procuring this energy from food is the foundation for life. Allthree of the macronutrients are sources of energy. However, the focus in this chapteris on the utilization of proteins and amino acids in energy production. In followingthis thread we’ll see that amino acids are involv ed in every aspect of energy m etabolism 
7950_C004.fm  Page 64  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 
65 
and under certain conditions can be the main players. In fact, theoretically, amino
acids can replace carbohydrates completely and replace fats as an energy source,leaving only the need for essential fatty acids for life. The major drawback to usingprotein to replace carbohydrates and fat is the problem of nitrogen elimination, whichunder certain circumstances can be toxic. 
2 
 
A discussion of the role of proteins in energy production of necessity involves
at least touching on other aspects of protein metabolism, including the dietary intakeof proteins and the metabolic processes of which protein and amino acids are anintegral part.  
II. THE STRUCTURE AND PROPERTIES OF PROTEIN
A. S 
TRUCTURAL 
, C 
ONTRACTILE 
, E 
NZYMES 
  
AND 
 O 
THER 
 P 
ROTEINS 
The word protein comes from the Greek word “proteios” which means “of the ﬁrst
rank” or “importance.” Protein is indeed important for life, being involved in every
biological process within the body. The average human body is approximately 18%protein. Proteins are essential components of muscle, skin, cell membranes, blood,hormones, antibodies, enzymes and genetic material, and almost all other bodytissues and components. They serve as structural components, biocatalysts(enzymes), antibodies, lubricants, messengers (hormones), and carriers.  
B. F 
REE 
 A 
MINO 
 A 
CID 
 P 
OOL 
Of the body’s vast content of amino acids, only a small amount is not bound up inprotein structures of one sort or another. Only 0.5 to 1% of the amino acids in thebody is present as free amino acids and make up the body’s free amino acid pool.
The free amino acid pool represents the most bioactive part of the body’s proteins
and amino acid content. This pool is made up of free amino acids in plasma and in theintracellular and extracellular space, with the concentration of amino acids being higherin the intracellular pool. The relatively small amounts of free amino acids in the freeamino acid pool, in equilibrium with the body’s much larger amounts of proteins andamino acids, are responsible for all the metabolic and substrate protein and amino acidinteractions that take place in the body, including muscle protein balance. 
3 
 
Various amino acids are represented in this pool, with the non-essential or
conditionally essential amino acids glutamine, glycine, and alanine making up thehighest concentrations. Of the essential amino acids, lysine, threonine, and thebranched-chain amino acids (BCAA), valine, leucine, and isoleucine are present inthe highest concentrations. 
The amino acids present in the plasma portion and extracellular portions of the pool
are in a sort of equilibrium with the amino acids in the intracellular portion. Since thisequilibrium between the intracellular and extracellular portions of the amino acid poolis due in most cases to active transport of the amino acids, it is not a true equilibriumbut in fact a sort of steady state based on both concentrations of amino acids and theexisting metabolic state. As such, the levels of free and protein-bound amino acids varyconsiderably. Measuring one portion of the pool without the other can give a falseimpression of the movement or ﬂux of amino acids through the free pool.  
7950_C004.fm  Page 65  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
66 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
The small free amino acid pool, while highly regulated and active, is relatively
stable in size and content. However, some relatively small but important changes
take place in amino acid concentrations in response to various stimuli such asexercise, food intake, and various diseases.  
C. P 
ROTEIN 
 B 
ALANCE 
Protein balance is a function of intake relative to output (utilization and loss).Intake comes from dietary sources and the recycling of proteins, especially ofcellular protein sloughed off in the intestinal lumen, while losses occur due tothe use of the carbon skeletons of amino acids with the excretion of nitrogenouscompounds, as well as protein losses in feces, urine, sweat, and the integumentarysystem. 
4 
Body proteins are in a constant state of ﬂux, with both protein degradation and
protein synthesis constantly going on. Normally, these two processes are equal withneither net loss nor net gain of protein taking place. Protein intake usually equalsprotein lost. 
However, if protein synthesis (anabolism) is greater than protein degradation
(catabolism), then the overall result is anabolic with a net increase in body protein.If protein degradation is greater than protein synthesis, the overall result is catabolicwith a net decrease in body protein. 
Nitrogen balance, when nitrogen intake equals nitrogen loss, is essentially syn-
onymous with protein balance since amino acids are involved in forming otherimportant nitrogen-containing compounds such as ammonia and urea as well ascreatine, peptide hormones, and some neurotransmitters. However, nitrogen balanceis at times a more useful concept as it allows us to make some determination aboutprotein and energy metabolism. For example, if urinary nitrogen increases in respectto a constant intake then we can suspect that amino acids are being deaminated andused as energy. However, with the limited information on hand we can’t say forcertain what’s going on. 
Although the end result may be the same, protein balance and protein turnover
are not synonymous. Protein turnover, which is a measure of the rate of proteinmetabolism, involves both protein synthesis and catabolism.  
1. Factors Affecting Protein Synthesis and Catabolism 
Accelerated protein breakdown and a net protein loss occur secondary to exhaustiveexercise and in injury and various diseases. The negative nitrogen balance observedin such cases represents the net result of breakdown and synthesis; with breakdownincreased and synthesis either increased or diminished. Under certain conditionsprotein catabolism can also be decreased. As well, protein synthesis can be increasedor decreased under certain conditions. The net result depends on the conditionspresent and the effects on both synthesis and catabolism. 
For example, to have a net increase in protein synthesis so that there is an
increase in the concentration of a protein in a cell, its rate of synthesis would haveto increase or its breakdown decrease, or both. There are several ways in which the 
7950_C004.fm  Page 66  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 
67 
concentration of protein in a cell could be increased, including the four outlined
below:
1. The rate of synthesis of the mRNA that codes for the particular protein(s)
could be increased (known as transcriptional control).
2. The rate of synthesis of the polypeptide chain by the ribosomal-mRNA
complex could be increased (known as translational control).
3. The rate of degradation of the mRNA could be decreased (also translational
control).
4. The rate of degradation of the protein could be decreased. 
Table 4.1 outlines some of the conditions or factors affecting protein synthesis.
Many of these conditions and factors are interrelated. Keep in mind that protein 
TABLE 4.1Some Conditions and Factors Affecting Protein Synthesis 
Conditions or Factors Effect on Rate 
of Protein Synthesis 
Decreased protein intake decreased
Increased protein intake increasedDecreased energy intake decreasedIncreased cellular hydration 
a 
increased
Decreased cellular hydration decreasedIncreased intake of leucine in presence of sufﬁciency of other amino acids increasedIncreased intake of glutamine in presence of sufﬁciency of other amino acids increasedLack of nervous stimulation decreasedMuscle stretch, or exercise increasedOvertraining decreasedTestosterone (and anabolic steroids) increasedGrowth hormone increasedInsulin-like growth factor one (IGF-I) increasedNormal thyroid hormone 
b 
increased
Excess thyroid hormone decreasedCatecholamines (including synthetic  
β 
-adrenergic agonist such as 
clenbuterol)increased
Glucocorticoids decreasedPhysical trauma, infection decreased 
a 
It is important to understand that cellular hydration refers to an intracellular state and as such is
different from extracellular hydration that is manifested either as water retention or volume depletion(extracellular dehydration) as measured by the degree of peripheral edema, overall blood volume,blood pressure, and serum concentrations of electrolytes.  
b 
 Thyroid hormone (thyroxine and triiodothyronine) stimulate both protein synthesis and degradation,
depending on their levels in the body. Not enough or too much can be detrimental to protein synthesis.Higher than normal levels of thyroid hormone lead to the catabolism of protein. 
From: Di Pasquale, Mauro G.,  
Amino Acids and Proteins for the Athlete: The Anabolic Edge 
. CRC
Press, Boca Raton, FL (1997). 
7950_C004.fm  Page 67  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
68 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
synthesis is increased as the result of a net positive change secondary to changes in
both (or less commonly one of) synthesis and catabolism.  
III. DIETARY PROTEIN 
Every cell in the body is partly composed of proteins, which are subject to continuouswear and replacement. Carbohydrates and fats contain no nitrogen or sulfur, twoessential elements in all proteins. Whereas the fat in the body can be derived fromdietary carbohydrates and the carbohydrates from proteins, the proteins of the bodyare inevitably dependant for their formation and maintenance on the proteins in food.Protein from food is digested and the resultant amino acids and peptides are absorbedand used to synthesize body proteins. 
Proteins consist of large molecules with molecular weights ranging from 1000
to over 1,000,000. In their native state some are soluble and some insoluble in water.Although a great variety of proteins can be subdivided into various categories, theyare all are made up of the same building blocks called amino acids. 
Every species of animal has its characteristic proteins — the proteins of beef
muscle, for instance, differ from those of pork muscle. It is the proteins that give
each species its speciﬁc immunological characters and uniqueness.
Plants can synthesize all the amino acids they need from simple inorganic
chemical compounds, but animals are unable to do this because they cannot syn-
thesize the amino (NH 
2 
) group; so to obtain the amino acids necessary for building
protein they must eat plants — or other animals that have in their turn lived onplants.
The human body has certain limited powers of converting one amino acid into
another. This is achieved in the liver, at least partly by the process of transamination,whereby an amino group is shifted from one molecule across to another under theinﬂuence of aminotransferase, the coenzyme of which is pyridoxal phosphate. How-ever, the ability of the body to convert one amino acid into another is restricted.There are several amino acids which the body cannot make for itself and that mustbe obtained from the diet. These are termed essential amino acids.
Under normal circumstances, the adult human body can maintain nitrogenous
equilibrium on a mixture of eight pure amino acids as its sole source of nitrogen.These eight are: isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine,tryptophan, and valine. Several amino acids, including arginine, histidine, andglutamine, are believed by some to be conditionally essential. That is, under certainconditions such as growth, these amino acids are not able to be synthesized inadequate amounts and thus need to be supplied in the diet. 
Synthesis of the conditionally essential and nonessential amino acids depends
mainly on ﬁrst forming appropriate alpha-keto acids, the precursors of the respectiveamino acids. For instance, pyruvic acid, which is formed in large quantities duringthe glycolytic breakdown of glucose, is the keto acid precursor of the amino acidalanine. Then, by the process of transamination, an amino radical is transferred fromcertain amino acids to the alpha-keto acid, while the keto oxygen is transferred tothe donor of the amino radical. In the formation of alanine, for example, the amino 
7950_C004.fm  Page 68  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 
69 
radical is transferred to the pyruvic acid from one of several possible amino acid
donors including asparagine, glutamine, glutamic acid, and aspartic acid.
Transamination is promoted by several enzymes, among which are the ami-
notransferases, which are derivatives of pyridoxine (B 
6 
), one of the B vitamins.
Without this vitamin, the nonessential amino acids are synthesized only poorly and,therefore, protein formation cannot proceed normally. The formation of protein canalso be affected by other vitamins, minerals and nutrients. 
A. Q 
UALITY 
  
OF 
 P 
ROTEINS 
All proteins are made up of varying numbers of amino acids attached together in aspeciﬁc sequence and having a speciﬁc architecture. The sequence of the aminoacids and form of the protein differentiate one protein from another and give theprotein special physiological and biological properties. 
The quantity and quality of protein in the diet is important in determining the
effects on protein metabolism. Increasing protein intake leads to increased amino
acid levels systemically, which in turn leads to increased protein synthesis, decreasedendogenous protein breakdown, and increased amino acid oxidation. 
5 
 
The quality of dietary protein is also important in determining changes in protein
metabolism. Certain proteins are considered to be biologically more effective. An
example would be the difference between soy and milk proteins. Consumption of asoy protein meal, as compared with casein, results in lower protein synthesis andhigher oxidation of amino acids, as seen by the greater urea production than con-sumption of a casein protein meal. 
6 
 
In a recent review, milk proteins were found to be more effective in stimulating
amino acid uptake and net protein deposition in skeletal muscle after resistanceexercise than hydrolyzed soy proteins. 
8 
 
The ﬁndings revealed that even when balanced quantities of total protein and
energy are consumed, milk proteins are more effective in stimulating amino aciduptake and net protein deposition in skeletal muscle after resistance exercise thanare hydrolyzed soy proteins. Importantly, the ﬁnding of increased amino acid uptakewas independent of the differences in amino acid composition of the two proteins.The authors of this review proposed that the improved net protein deposition withmilk protein consumption is also not due to differences in amino acid composition,but to a different pattern of amino acid delivery associated with milk versus hydro-lyzed soy proteins. These ﬁndings suggest that, in healthy human subjects, caseinhas a higher biological value than soy protein.
In addition, it has been shown that proteins found in whole foods may impact
on protein metabolism differently because of the presence of other macronutrients.In a recent study, milk ingestion was found to stimulate net uptake of phenylalanineand threonine, representing net muscle protein synthesis following resistance exer-cise. 
9 
 The results of this study suggest that whole milk may have increased utilization
of available amino acids for protein synthesis. That is likely because carbohydratesand fats alter the rate of absorption of the amino acids and the hormonal response,and subsequently the fate of the amino acids absorbed. For example, the addition 
7950_C004.fm  Page 69  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
70 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
of sucrose to milk proteins increased whole-body nitrogen retention, but primarily
in splanchnic tissues, whereas the addition of fat to milk proteins resulted in greaterdietary N retention in peripheral tissues. 
10 
B. S 
LOW 
  
AND 
 F 
AST 
 D 
IETARY 
 P 
ROTEINS 
  
We know that there are differences in carbohydrate — high glycemic, low glycemic,simple sugars, starches, etc. And we know that different carbohydrates are absorbedin the gut and appear in the blood at different rates depending on various factors —for example, simple sugars are absorbed quickly, and more complex ones, dependingon how quickly they can be broken down, are absorbed more slowly. This makesup the basis for the glycemic index (GI) of not only foods but whole meals, sincethe presence of protein and fat with the carbohydrates usually slows down theabsorption over the whole digestive process. Fast and slow carbohydrates havedifferent metabolic effects on the hormones and on various metabolic processes. 
There are also slow and fast dietary proteins. The speed of absorption of dietary
amino acids by the gut varies according to the type of ingested dietary protein and
the presence of other macronutrients. The speed of absorption can affect postprandial(after-meal) protein synthesis, breakdown, and deposition. 
11,12 
 
It has been shown that the postprandial amino acid levels differ signiﬁcantly
depending on the mode of administration of a dietary protein; a single-protein meal
results in an acute but transient peak of amino acids, whereas the same amount ofthe same protein given in a continuous manner, which mimics a slow absorption,induces a smaller but prolonged increase. 
Since amino acids are potent modulators of protein synthesis, breakdown, and
oxidation, different patterns of postprandial amino acidemia (the level of amino acidsin the blood) might well result in different postprandial protein kinetics and gain.Therefore, the speed of absorption by the gut of amino acids derived from dietaryproteins will have different effects on whole-body protein synthesis, breakdown, andoxidation, which in turn control protein deposition. 
For example, one study looked at both casein and whey protein absorption and
the subsequent metabolic effects. 
13 
 In this study, two labeled milk proteins, casein
(CAS) and whey protein (WP), of different physicochemical properties were ingestedas one single meal by healthy adults, and postprandial whole-body leucine kineticswere assessed. WP induced a dramatic but short increase of plasma amino acids. CASinduced a prolonged plateau of moderate hyperaminoacidemia, probably because ofa slow gastric emptying. Whole-body protein breakdown was inhibited by 34% afterCAS ingestion but not after WP ingestion. Postprandial protein synthesis was stimu-lated by 68% with the WP meal and to a lesser extent ( 
+ 
31%) with the CAS meal. 
Under the conditions of this study, i.e., a single protein meal with no energy
added, two dietary proteins were shown to have different metabolic fates and uses.After WP ingestion, the plasma appearance of dietary amino acids is fast, high, andtransient. This amino acid pattern is associated with an increased protein synthesisand oxidation and no change in protein breakdown. By contrast, the plasma appear-ance of dietary amino acids after a CAS meal is slower, lower, and prolonged, witha different whole-body metabolic response: protein synthesis slightly increases andoxidation is moderately stimulated, but protein breakdown is markedly inhibited. 
13 
  
7950_C004.fm  Page 70  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 
71 
This study demonstrates that dietary amino acid absorption is faster with WP than
with CAS. It is very likely that a slower gastric emptying was mostly responsible for
the slower appearance of amino acids in the plasma. Indeed, CAS clots in the stomach,whereas WP is rapidly emptied from the stomach into the duodenum. The results ofthe study demonstrate that amino acids derived from casein are indeed slowly releasedfrom the gut and that slow and fast proteins differently modulate postprandial changesof whole-body protein synthesis, breakdown, oxidation, and deposition. 
13 
After WP ingestion, large amounts of dietary amino acids ﬂood the small body
pool in a short time, resulting in a dramatic increase in amino acid concentrations.This is probably responsible for the stimulation of protein synthesis. This dramaticstimulation of protein synthesis and absence of protein breakdown inhibition is quitedifferent from the pattern observed with classic feeding studies and with the use ofonly one protein source. 
In conclusion, the study demonstrated that the speed of amino acid absorption
after protein ingestion has a major impact on the postprandial metabolic responseto a single protein meal. The slowly absorbed CAS promotes postprandial proteindeposition by an inhibition of protein breakdown without excessive increase in aminoacid concentration. By contrast, a fast dietary protein stimulates protein synthesisbut also oxidation. This impact of amino acid absorption speed on protein metabo-lism is true when proteins are given alone, but as for carbohydrate, this might beblunted in more complex meals that could affect gastric emptying (lipids) or insulinresponse (carbohydrate).  
C. E 
FFECTS 
  
OF 
 D 
IETARY 
 P 
ROTEIN 
  
ON 
 P 
ROTEIN 
 M 
ETABOLISM 
Protein metabolism is affected by several factors including energy, protein andmacronutrient intake, and exercise. 
14,15 
 An increase in dietary protein results in an
increase in nitrogen retention 
16 
 and an increase in amino acid oxidation, as well as
increases in the rate of protein turnover. 
17,18 
 
As mentioned elsewhere, the speed of absorption can also modulate protein
metabolism by modulating protein synthesis, protein catabolism, and amino acidoxidation. The speed of absorption is a function of the state of the gastrointestinalsystem (previous dietary intake and presence or absence of any pathology), the typeof dietary protein (free amino acids, hydrolysates and whey protein are rapidlyabsorbed in comparison to, for example, casein; see discussion under fast and slowdietary proteins), 
19 
 and the presence of other dietary macronutrients. 
20 
 
Both a high-protein diet and the rapid absorption of amino acids tends to increase
amino acid oxidation 
21 
 as well as gluconeogenesis. 
22 
 Both processes underlie the
importance of dietary protein and amino acids to overall energy metabolism.  
D. D 
IETARY 
 R 
EFERENCE 
 I 
NTAKES 
  
AND 
 R 
ECOMMENDED 
 D 
AILY 
 A 
LLOWANCES 
The Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs, 1941–1989) were established to tryto cover the nutritional needs of all normal, healthy persons living in the UnitedStates without the necessity of determining individual nutrient requirements. Canadahad a similar system called the Recommended Nutrient Intake (RNI). Several foreigncountries each have their own RDAs.  
7950_C004.fm  Page 71  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
72 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
In the past, RDAs were established for protein (there was no RDA for fat or
carbohydrate), vitamins A, D, E, K, thiamin, riboﬂavin, niacin, B 
12 
, folacin, C,
calcium, magnesium, iron, iodine, phosphorus, selenium, and zinc. The RDAs were
set to allow for the vast majority of all normal healthy persons in the U.S. but didnot cover people with illness or chronic disease. To cover some of the outliers, thereis a margin of safety built into the RDAs so that the average healthy person canconsume one third less than the RDA and still not run into any deﬁciencies. TheFood and Nutrition Board of National Academy of Sciences (FNBNAS) set thevalues for the RDAs based on human and animal research. The Board meets aboutevery 5 years to review current research on nutrients. As research accumulated foreach of the many essential nutrients, its associated RDA was revised. The lastrevision for the RDAs was in 1989. 
23 
In the past decade, some signiﬁcant changes have taken place in the detail and
scope of ofﬁcial dietary recommendations. In 1997, the FNBNAS introduced dietaryreference intakes (DRIs), changing the way nutritionists and nutrition scientistsevaluate the diets of healthy people. There are four types of DRI reference values:
the estimated average requirement (EAR), the RDA, the adequate intake (AI) and
the tolerable upper intake level (UL). The primary goal of having new dietaryreference values was to not only prevent nutrient deﬁciencies, but also to reducethe risk of chronic diseases such as osteoporosis, cancer, and cardiovascular disease.10 DRI reports have been completed since 1997 as well as several articles andhundreds of papers discussing them. 
24–26 
 Deﬁnitions of DRIs are as follows: 
• Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA): the average daily dietary
intake level that is sufﬁcient to meet the nutrient requirement of nearlyall (97% to 98%) healthy individuals in a particular life stage and gendergroup.
• Adequate Intake: a recommended intake value based on observed or
experimentally determined approximations or estimates of nutrient intake bya group (or groups) of healthy people, that are assumed to be adequate —used when an RDA cannot be determined.
• Tolerable Upper Intake Level: the highest level of daily nutrient intake
that is likely to pose no risk of adverse health effects for almost allindividuals in the general population. As intake increase above the UL,the potential risk of adverse effects increases.
• Estimated Average Requirement: a daily nutrient intake value that is
estimated to meet the requirement of half of the healthy individuals in alife stage and gender group — used to assess dietary adequacy and as thebasis for the RDA.
• Acceptable Macronutrient Distribution Range (AMDR): a range of intakes
for a particular energy source that is associated with reduced risk ofchronic diseases while providing adequate intakes of essential nutrients.
• Estimated Energy Requirement (EER): the average dietary energy intake
that is predicted to maintain energy balance in a healthy adult of a deﬁnedage, gender, weight, height, and level of physical activity consistent withgood health. 
7950_C004.fm  Page 72  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 
73 
In 2000 an expert nutrition review panel, consisting of both American and
Canadian scientists selected by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), was
formed to establish the DRIs for macronutrients and energy. The panel’s missionwas, based on the current scientiﬁc literature, to update, replace, and expand uponthe old RDAs in the United States (NRC 1989) and RNIs in Canada (Health andWelfare Canada 1990). In 2002, the DRI report was released with new recommen-dations for healthy individuals for energy, dietary carbohydrates and ﬁber, dietaryfats (which include fatty acids and cholesterol), dietary protein, and the indispensableamino acids. 
27 
 
Although the panel was instructed to consider increased physical activity as a
factor affecting requirements, the DRIs for protein that applied to most healthyindividuals were thought to be adequate for those who were physically active. Afterreviewing the scientiﬁc literature investigating the protein needs of athletes, the panelstated: “In view of the lack of compelling evidence to the contrary, no additional
dietary protein is suggested for healthy adults undertaking resistance or endurance
exercise.” 
28  
The general criterion used to establish the EAR for protein in the adult, and
subsequently the RDA, was to determine the point at which the body is able tomaintain body protein content at its current level (i.e., maintenance of nitrogenbalance). This daily value was 0.66 g kg of body mass per day for adults (men andwomen 19 years of age and older), which resulted in an RDA of 0.80 g kg. This isthe same daily value as the 1989 RDA and slightly lower than the 1990 RNI of 0.86g kg (Health and Welfare Canada 1990). 
29 
 
In the case of protein and amino acid requirements, the RDA is age- and gender-
dependent and is set at twice the minimum value of the subject who required themost protein or amino acid in all the studies conducted. By greatly increasing therecommended intake ﬁgure over that experimentally determined, it was hoped thatthe protein and amino acid needs of the majority of the U.S. population would be met. 
The RDA for protein was originally quite high. For many years, it was set at
1 g/kg body weight for the average adult male, who was assumed to weigh 70 kg(about 155 pounds), so the RDA was 70 g/day. In the last three decades, however,until 1989, the RDA for protein has been adjusted steadily downward.  
1. How was the RDA Established?  
Ideally, sufﬁcient research is conducted to show (1) that a given nutrient is neededby the human, (2) that certain deﬁciency signs can be produced, (3) that these signscan be avoided or reversed if the missing nutrient is administered, and (4) that nofurther improvement is observed if the nutrient is administered at levels above thatwhich reversed the deﬁciency symptoms. 
Next, studies are conducted on a variety of subjects to determine their minimal
need. Since humans vary so much, it is not possible to measure the requirementsover a broad range of human variability. To allow for this variability, a safety factoris added on to the determined minimum needs of the group of subjects studied. Asmore subjects are studied and more data accumulated, the added safety factorbecomes smaller. 
7950_C004.fm  Page 73  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
74 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
For the purposes of determining protein needs, some shortcuts are taken. For
example, since proper nitrogen balance studies are laborious and are performed over
a period of several days, a shortcut is often taken and an estimate of nitrogen balanceis made by collecting and measuring nitrogen in the urine — since the end productsof protein metabolism leave the body mainly via this route — and estimating otherlosses. Estimations are made of the nitrogen lost in the feces and the small lossesof protein from skin, hair, ﬁngernails, perspiration, and other secretions. 
About 90% of the nitrogen in urine is urea and ammonia salts — the end products
of protein metabolism. The remaining nitrogen is accounted for by creatinine (fromcreatine), uric acid (products of the metabolism of purines and pyrimidines), por-phyrins, and other nitrogen-containing compounds. 
Urinary nitrogen excretion is related to the basal metabolic rate (BMR). The
larger the muscle mass in the body, the more calories are needed to maintain theBMR. Also, the rate of transamination is greater as amino acids and carbohydratesare interconverted to fulﬁll energy needs in the muscle. One to 1.3 mg of urinarynitrogen is excreted for each kilocalorie required for basal metabolism. Nitrogen
excretion also increases during exercise and heavy work.
Fecal and skin losses account for a signiﬁcant amount of nitrogen loss from the
body in normal conditions, and these may vary widely in disease states. Thus,
measurement of urinary nitrogen loss alone may not provide a predictable assessmentof daily nitrogen requirement when it is most needed. Fecal losses are due to theinefﬁciency of digestion and absorption of protein (93% efﬁciency). In addition, theintestinal tract secretes proteins in the lumen from saliva, gastric juice, bile, pancre-atic enzymes, and enterocyte sloughing. 
Taking all these losses into consideration and using nitrogen balance as a tool, the
minimum daily dietary allowance for protein can be derived on the following bases:
1. Obligatory urinary nitrogen losses of young adults amount to about 37 mg/kg
of body weight. 
2. Fecal nitrogen losses average 12 mg/kg of body weight.3. Amounts of nitrogen lost in the perspiration, hair, ﬁngernails, and
sloughed skin are estimated at 3 mg/kg of body weight.
4. Minor routes of nitrogen loss such as saliva, menstruation, and seminal
ejaculation are estimated at 2 mg/kg of body weight.
5. The total obligatory nitrogen lost — that which must be replaced daily
— amounts to 54 mg/kg, or in terms of protein lost this is 0.34 g/kg(0.054  
⋅ 
 6.25 — 1 gram of nitrogen  
= 
 6.25 grams of protein).
6. To account for individual variation the daily loss is increased by 30%, or
70 mg/kg. In terms of protein, this is 0.45 g/kg of body weight.
7. This protein loss is further increased by 30%, to 0.6 g/kg of body weight,
to account for the loss of efﬁciency when consuming even a high-qualityprotein such as egg.
8. The ﬁnal adjustment is to correct for the 75% efﬁciency of utilization of
protein in the mixed diet of North Americans. Thus, the RDA for proteinbecomes 0.8 g/kg of body weight for normal healthy adult males andfemales, or 63 g of protein per day for a 174 lb (79 kg) man and 50 gper day for a 138 lb (63 kg) woman. 
7950_C004.fm  Page 74  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 
75 
The need for dietary protein is inﬂuenced by age, environmental temperature,
energy intake, gender, micronutrient intake, infection, activity, previous diet, trauma,
pregnancy, and lactation. 
The minimum daily requirement, that is, the minimum amount of dietary protein
that will provide the needed amounts of amino acids to optimally maintain the body,is impossible to determine for each individual without expending a good deal oftime and effort for each person. 
At present, the normal amount of protein recommended for sedentary people is
0.8 grams of protein per kilogram (0.36 grams per pound) of body weight per day.This RDA for protein presumes that the dietary protein is coming from a mixed dietcontaining a reasonable amount of good-quality proteins. For the average personsubsisting on mixtures of poor-quality proteins, this RDA may not be adequate. 
E. R 
ECOMMENDED 
 D 
IETARY 
 A 
LLOWANCES 
 (RDA)  
FOR 
 A 
THLETES 
The Recommended Dietary Allowances make little provision for changes in nutrientrequirements for those who exercise. Energy requirements increase with exercise asthe lean (muscle) mass increases and as resting metabolic energy expenditureincreases. Increased physical activity at all ages promotes the retention of leanmuscle mass and requires increased protein and energy intake. 
In athletes, several factors can increase the amount of protein needed, including
duration and intensity of exercise, degree of training and current energy, and proteinintake of the diet. Athletes who train hard need more protein than the averageindividual. This holds true for both endurance and power sports.  
1. Historical Overview 
The history of protein requirements for athletes is both interesting and circular. Inthe mid-1800’s the popular opinion was that protein was the primary fuel for workingmuscle. 
30 
 This was an incentive for athletes to consume large amounts of dietary
protein. 
In 1866 a paper based on urinary nitrogen excretion measures (for protein to
provide energy, its nitrogen must be removed and subsequently excreted primarilyin the urine), suggested that protein was not an important fuel, and contributed about6% of the fuel used during a 1,956 m climb in the Swiss Alps. 
31 
 This paper and
others led to the perception that exercise does not increase one’s need for dietaryprotein. This view has persisted to the present. 
Recently, however, there is some evidence to show that protein contributes more
than is generally believed today. The data in the 1866 study likely underestimatedthe actual protein use for several methodological reasons. For example, the subjectsconsumed a protein-free diet before the climb, post-climb excretion measures werenot made, and other routes of nitrogen excretion may have been substantial. 
However, based largely on these data, this belief has persisted throughout most
of the 20th century. This is somewhat surprising because Cathcart 
32 
 in an extensive
review of the literature prior to 1925 concluded “the accumulated evidence seemsto me to point in no unmistakable fashion to the opposite conclusion that muscleactivity does increase, if only in small degree, the metabolism of protein.” Based on 
7950_C004.fm  Page 75  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
76 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
results from a number of separate experimental approaches, the conclusions of
several more recent investigators support Cathcart’s conclusion. 
33 
 
Several studies have shown that the current RDA for protein is not enough for
many people, including athletes and the elderly. 
The current dietary protein recommendations for protein (0.8 grams per kilogram)
may be insufﬁcient for athletes and those wishing to maximize lean body mass andstrength. These athletes may well beneﬁt from protein supplementation. With exer-cise and under certain conditions, the use of protein and amino acid supplementsmay have signiﬁcant anabolic and anticatabolic effects. 
Athletes who train hard, because of the increased use of amino acids for energy
metabolism and protein synthesis, need more protein than the average individual. 
Over a decade ago, Peter Lemon, of the Applied Physiology Research Labora-
tory, Kent State University, addressed the issue of the protein requirements ofathletes. 
34 
 Lemon remarked that current recommendations concerning dietary protein
are based primarily on data obtained from sedentary subjects. However, both endur-ance and strength athletes, he says, will likely beneﬁt from diets containing more
protein than the current RDA of 0.8 g/kg/day, though the roles played by protein in
excess of the RDA will likely be quite different between the two sets of athletes. 
For strength athletes, Lemon states that protein requirements will probably be in
the range of 1.4–1.8 g/kg/day, whereas endurance athletes need about 1.2–1.4 g/kg/day.
There is no indication that these intakes will cause any adverse side effects inhealthy humans. On the other hand, there is essentially no valid scientiﬁc evidencethat protein intakes exceeding about 1.8–2.0 k/kg day will provide an additionaladvantage.  
F. E 
FFECTS 
  
OF 
 E 
XERCISE  ON DIETARY  PROTEIN  REQUIREMENTS  
High protein intake has been the mainstay of most athlete’s diets. Athletes in generaland strength athletes and bodybuilders in particular, consume large amounts ofprotein.
35 One reason for their increased protein consumption is their increased
caloric intake. Another is that most athletes deliberately increase their intake ofprotein-rich foods and often use protein supplements. 
As we’ve seen, many scientiﬁc and medical sources believe that protein supple-
mentation and high-protein diets are unnecessary and that the RDA supplies morethan adequate amounts of protein for the athlete.
36 In fact, overloading on protein
is felt to be detrimental because of the increased load to the kidneys of the metabolicbreakdown products formed when the excess protein is used as an energy source. 
The results of a number of investigations involving both strength and endurance
athletes indicate that, in fact, exercise does increase protein/amino acid needs.
37–41
In Lemon’s review, the consensus was that all athletes need more protein thansedentary people, and that strength athletes need the most.
42 
Over a decade ago, a group of researchers at McMaster University in Hamilton,
Ontario concluded that the current Canadian Recommended Nutrient Intake forprotein of 0.86 g/kg/day is inadequate for those engaged in endurance exercise.
43
Moreover, their results indicated that male athletes may have an even higher proteinrequirement than females. A recent study found that endurance athletes need a proteinintake of at least 1.2 g/kg to achieve a positive nitrogen balance.
44 7950_C004.fm  Page 76  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 77
Butterﬁeld45 performed a review of the literature and recommended high protein
intakes (up to 2–3 g/kg) for physically active individuals. She found evidence for
the existence of an intricate relationship between protein and energy utilization withexercise: 
When energy intake is in excess of need, the utilization of even a marginal intake of
protein will be improved, giving the appearance that protein intake is adequate. Whenenergy intake and output are balanced, the improvement in nitrogen retention accom-plished by exercise seems to be fairly constant at protein intakes greater than 0.8g/kg/d, but falls off rapidly at protein intakes below this. When energy balance isnegative, the magnitude of the effect of exercise on protein retention may be decreasedas the activity increases, and protein requirements may be higher than when energybalance is maintained.
Somewhat in agreement with Butterﬁeld’s conclusions are the results of
another study by Piatti et al.46 They investigated the effects of two hypocaloric
diets (800 kcalories) on body weight reduction and composition, insulin sensitivity
and proteolysis in 25 normal obese women. The two diets had the following com-
position: 45% protein, 35% carbohydrate, and 20% fat (high-protein diet); and 60%carbohydrate, 20% protein, and 20% fat (high-carbohydrate diet). The results, saidthe authors, suggest that (1) a hypocaloric diet providing a high percentage of naturalprotein can improve insulin sensitivity; and (2) conversely, a hypocaloric high-carbohydrate diet decreases insulin sensitivity and is unable to spare muscle tissue.
In another study it was shown that a protein intake as high as four times the
recommended RDA (3.3 grams per kilogram of bodyweight per day vs. RDA of0.8 grams per kilogram per day) resulted in signiﬁcantly increased protein synthesis
even when compared with a protein intake that was almost twice the RDA.
47 This
observation that a protein intake of approximately four times the RDA, in combi-nation with weight training, can promote greater muscle size gains than the sametraining with a diet containing what is considered by many to be more than adequateprotein, is in tune with what many bodybuilders and other weight training athletesbelieve. 
The effects of two levels of protein intake (1.5 g/kg/day or 2.5 g/kg/day) on
muscle performance and energy metabolism were studied in humans submitted torepeated daily sessions of prolonged exercise at moderate altitude.
48 The study
showed that the higher level of protein intake greatly minimized the exercise-induceddecrease in serum branched chain amino acids. 
Several studies and papers in the last decade have championed the need for
protein above the RDA for athletes and those involved in physical exercise. Thereasons are many and involve those athletes in strength and endurance sports andthose wanting to increase muscle mass. 
Many support the idea that the protein needs of athletes are substantially higher
than those of sedentary subjects because of the oxidation of amino acids duringexercise and gluconeogenesis, as well as the retention of nitrogen during periods ofmuscle building.
49–51 Intense muscular activity increases both protein catabolism and
protein utilization as an energy source.52,53 Thus, a high-protein diet may decrease
the catabolic effects of exercise by several means — including the use of dietary7950_C004.fm  Page 77  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

78 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
protein as an energy substrate, thereby decreasing the catabolism of endogenous
protein during exercise. 
Athletes have for years maintained that a high-protein diet is essential for
maximizing lean body mass. And even though there have been attempts to discouragethem, the popularity of high-protein diets has not waned. Athletes seem to feelintuitively that they need higher levels of protein than the average sedentary person.This intuitive feeling is backed up by their claims of the ergogenic effects of high-protein diets. 
Are these effects simply psychological? Not according to studies that have shown
the anabolic effects of increased dietary protein intake. For example, in one studydone in rats,
54 dietary energy had no identiﬁable inﬂuence on muscle growth. In
contrast, increased dietary protein appeared to stimulate muscle growth directly  by
increasing muscle RNA content and inhibiting proteolysis, as well as increasinginsulin and free T3 levels. 
Although perhaps popular for a while, supplements that may work through a
placebo effect but have no intrinsic effects eventually fall by the wayside and are
abandoned by the majority. High-protein diets are used because they work. As well,
the use of protein supplements is popular because of their effectiveness above andbeyond a whole-food high-protein diet. 
Although there has been some concern about the effects of a high dietary protein
intake on the kidneys, there seems to be no basis for these concerns in healthyindividuals.
55,56 In fact, some animal studies have pointed to a beneﬁcial effect of
high-protein diets on kidney function.57 
A recent review of some of the issues of high dietary protein intake in humans
suggested that the maximum protein intake based on bodily needs, weight controlevidence, and avoiding protein toxicity would be about 25% of energy requirementsat approximately 2 to 2.5 g per kg of weight corresponding to 176 g protein per dayfor an 80-kg individual on a 12,000 kJ/d or 3000 cal/d diet.
58 The authors also stated
that this is well below the theoretical maximum safe intake range for an 80-kg person(285 to 365 g/d).
There has also been some concern about the adverse effects of high-protein diets
on the serum lipid proﬁle and on blood pressure. However, it would seem that theseconcerns also have little basis in fact. 
In one study, a diet higher in lean animal protein, including beef, was found to
result in more favorable HDL (“good” cholesterol) and LDL (“bad” cholesterol)levels.
59 The study involved ten moderately hypercholesterolemic subjects (six
women, four men). They were randomly allocated to isocaloric high- or low-proteindiets for 4 to 5 weeks, after which they switched over to the other. Protein providedeither 23% or 11% of energy intake; carbohydrate provided 65% or 53%; and fatsaccounted for 24%. During the high-protein diet, mean fasting plasma total choles-terol, LDL, and triglycerides were signiﬁcantly lower, HDL was raised by 12%, andthe ratio of LDL to HDL consistently decreased. Other studies by the same groupof researchers found that increased levels of dietary proteins resulted in beneﬁcialchanges in blood lipids in both normolipemic and dyslipemic humans.
60,61 As well,
recent studies have found that increasing dietary plant and animal protein lowersblood pressure in hypertensive persons.
62,637950_C004.fm  Page 78  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 79
Intense muscular activity increases protein catabolism (breakdown) and protein
use as an energy source. The less protein available, the less muscle you’re going to
be able to build. A high-protein diet protects the protein to be turned into muscleby, among other things, providing another energy source for use during exercise.The body will burn this protein instead of the protein inside the muscle cells.
In fact, studies have shown that the anabolic effects of intense training are
increased by a high-protein diet. When intensity of effort is at its maximum andstimulates an adaptive, muscle-producing response, protein needs accelerate to pro-vide for that increased muscle mass. It’s also well known that a high-protein diet isnecessary for anabolic steroids to have full effect.
Once a certain threshold of work intensity is crossed, dietary protein becomes
essential in maximizing the anabolic effects of exercise. Exercise performed underthat threshold, however, may have little anabolic effect and may not require increasedprotein. As a result, while serious athletes can beneﬁt from increased protein, other
athletes who do not undergo similar rigorous training may not.
Whether you need to supplement your diet with extra protein depends on your
goals. For those who don’t have to worry about gaining some fat along with the
muscle (traditionally athletes in sports without weight classes or those in the heavy-weight classes, where mass is an advantage — for example in the shotput and inweightlifting), high-caloric diets will usually supply all the protein necessary, pro-vided plenty of meat, ﬁsh, eggs, and dairy products are provided. With the increasedcaloric intake and including high-quality protein foods, extra protein will be obtainedat the dinner table without speciﬁc planning.
Most athletes, however, need the economy of maximizing lean body mass and
minimizing body fat. These athletes, both competitive and recreational, are on amoderate- or at times a low-caloric intake. To increase their protein intake, theyneed to plan their diets carefully and in many cases use protein supplements, sincethey can’t calorically afford to eat food in the volume necessary to get enoughprotein.
On the average, I recommend a minimum of 1 gram of high-quality protein per
pound of bodyweight (2.2 grams per kg) every day for anyone involved in compet-itive or intense recreational sports who wants to maximize lean body mass but doesnot wish to gain weight or have excessive muscle hypertrophy. This would apply toathletes who wish to stay in a certain competitive weight class or those involved inendurance events. 
However, athletes involved in strength events such as the Olympic ﬁeld and
sprint events, those in football or hockey, weightlifters, powerlifters, and bodybuild-ers, may need even more than my recommendation to maximize body compositionand athletic performance. In those attempting to minimize body fat and thus maxi-mize body composition, for example in sports with weight classes and in bodybuild-ing, it’s possible that protein may well make up over 50% of their daily caloric intake.
Such an increase is important if one is trying to lose weight and/or body fat it
is important to keep dietary protein levels high. The body transforms and oxidizesmore protein on a calorie-deﬁcient diet than it would in a diet that has adequatecalories. The larger the body muscle mass, the more transamination of amino acidsoccurs to fulﬁll energy needs. Thus, for those wishing to lose weight but maintain7950_C004.fm  Page 79  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

80 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
or even increase lean body mass in speciﬁc skeletal muscles, I recommend at least
1.5 grams of high-quality protein per pound of bodyweight. The reduction in caloriesneeded to lose weight should be at the expense of the fats and carbohydrates, notprotein. 
G. E SSENTIAL , CONDITIONALLY  ESSENTIAL , AND NONESSENTIAL  AMINO ACIDS
The requirement for dietary protein consists of two components: 
1. The requirement for the nutritionally essential amino acids (isoleucine,
leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, andvaline) under all conditions and for conditionally essential amino acids(arginine, cysteine, glutamine, glycine, histidine, proline, taurine andtyrosine) under speciﬁc physiological and pathological conditions. 
2. The requirement for nonspeciﬁc nitrogen for the synthesis of the nutri-
tionally dispensable amino acids (aspartic acid, asparagine, glutamic acid,alanine, serine) and other physiologically important nitrogen-containingcompounds such as nucleic acids, creatine, and porphyrins. 
With respect to the ﬁrst component, it is usually accepted that the nutritive values
of various food protein sources are to a large extent determined by the concentrationand availability of the individual indispensable amino acids. Hence, the efﬁciencywith which a given source of food protein is utilized in support of an adequate stateof nutritional health depends on both the physiological requirements for the indis-pensable amino acids and total nitrogen and on the concentration of speciﬁc aminoacids in the source of interest.
1. Essential Amino Acids
Essential amino acids, also called indispensable amino acids, must be supplied in
the diet either as free amino acids or as constituents of dietary proteins. By thiscriterion, the following eight amino acids are essential in man (Table 4.2). 
TABLE 4.2Essential Amino Acids 
*Isoleucine 
*Leucine Lysine Methionine Phenylalanine Threonine Tryptophan *Valine 
* Branched Chain Amino Acids — 
Leucine, Isoleucine, Valine7950_C004.fm  Page 80  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 81
2. Conditionally Dispensable Amino Acids
Several amino acids are considered conditionally essential (dispensable) as they are
rate limiting for protein synthesis under certain conditions. Individual amino acidsare often described as conditionally essential, based on requirements for optimalgrowth and maintenance of positive nitrogen balance. While in extreme circum-stances, such as in the absence of certain nonessential amino acids from the dietand the presence of limited amounts of essential amino acids from which to syn-thesize the nonessential amino acids, any of the amino acids might be consideredconditionally essential, including arginine, citrulline, ornithine, proline, cysteine,tyrosine, histidine, taurine etc.
64–68 However, practically, only seven other amino
acids can be considered essential under certain conditions. 
The following amino acids can be considered to be conditionally essential based
on the body’s inability to actually synthesize them from other amino acids undercertain conditions. By this criterion, the following seven amino acids are condition-ally essential in man (Table 4.3). 
3.Nonessential or Dispensable Amino Acids
Dispensable amino acids, also called nonessential amino acids, can be synthesized
by the body from other amino acids. The following eight amino acids can beconsidered to be nonessential in man based on the body’s ability to actually synthe-size them from other amino acids under almost all conditions, although, as discussedabove, there is likely no amino acid that is nonessential since limiting amounts ofthe precursors of these amino acids in a diet that does not contain adequate amountsof these amino acids will limit the body’s ability to synthesize them (Table 4.4). 
4.The Distinction is Blurred
Although I’ve made the distinction among the three amino acid groups as far as
essentiality, there is a blurring of the lines among the three groups and there is stillmuch controversy regarding the determination of amino acid requirements inhumans.
69 The blurring can be minor, for example, the amino acid histidine. Some
consider histidine an indispensable amino acid rather than a conditionally indispensable
TABLE 4.3Conditionally Essential 
Amino Acids 
Arginine 
Cysteine, Cystine Glutamine Histidine Proline Taurine Tyrosine 7950_C004.fm  Page 81  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

82 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
one. In the neonate, the only truly dispensable amino acids are alanine, aspartic acid,
glutamic acid, serine and asparagine.70 
The blurring, however, can also be major and further research is needed before
we can make a decision as to which amino acids are truly dispensable. For example,some believe that no amino acid is dispensable since, among other issues, there issome doubt as to whether we can actually synthesize amino acids, and that in factwe may need to obtain almost all — if not all — amino acids from dietary sources.
71,72
IV. EXERCISE AND PROTEIN METABOLISM
Exercise has profound effects on skeletal muscle. Skeletal muscle increases itscontractile protein content, resulting in muscular hypertrophy as it successfullyadapts to increasing work loads. Studies have shown that certain stimuli producemuscle hypertrophy.
In a review on the effects of exercise on protein turnover in man, Rennie et al.
73
concluded the following: 
1. Exercise causes a substantial rise in amino acid catabolism. 2. Amino acids catabolized during exercise appear to become available
through a fall in whole-body protein synthesis and a rise in whole-bodyprotein breakdown. 
3. After exercise, protein balance becomes positive through a rise in the rate
of whole-body synthesis in excess of breakdown. 
4. Studies of free 3-methylhistidine in muscle, plasma, and urine samples
suggest that exercise decreases the fractional rate of myoﬁbrillar proteinbreakdown, in contrast with the apparent rise in whole-body breakdown. 
In contrast to exercise, most of the increased proteolysis during fasting is due to thedegradation of myoﬁbrillar proteins (contractile proteins) in skeletal muscle.
74,75 
A number of studies have examined the inﬂuence of exercise on protein synthesis
and protein degradation. In general, it seems that exercise suppresses protein syn-thesis and stimulates protein degradation in skeletal muscle proportional to the levelof exertion. In one early study using rats, mild exercise decreased protein synthesisby 17%. More intense treadmill running reduced synthesis by 30% and an exhaustive3-hour run inhibited synthesis by 70%.
76 TABLE 4.4Nonessential Amino Acids 
Alanine 
Asparagine Aspartic Acid Citrulline Glutamic Acid Glycine Serine 7950_C004.fm  Page 82  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 83
Another study by the same author examined the effects of exhaustive running
on protein degradation and found that exhaustive running stimulates protein degra-
dation in skeletal muscle.77 Other studies have also shown that exercise produces a
catabolic condition. In one study looking at aerobic exercise in humans, six malesubjects were exercised on a treadmill for 3.75 hours at 50% V0
2 max and the rates
of protein synthesis and degradation were measured.78 During exercise there was a
14% decrease in protein synthesis and a 54% increase in the rate of degradation. 
This study is one of the few to make measurements during recovery after
exercise. Its authors found that, after exercise, protein synthesis increased above theinitial resting levels while protein degradation decreased, returning eventually topre-exercise levels. Any gains in the recovery phase seem therefore to be due toincreases in protein synthesis rather than to decreases in protein catabolism. 
In another study, multiple amino acid tracers were used to further elucidate the
changes in protein synthesis and degradation that occur during prolonged aerobic
exercise.
79,80 In these studies, male subjects were exercised on a bicycle ergometer
at 30% V02 max for 105 minutes. The results of the study showed that, while exercise
inhibited protein synthesis, the degree of inhibition varied depending on the amino
acid tracer used. For example, the authors found decreases in protein synthesis of48% using labeled leucine and 17% using lysine. With the relatively light workloadsused in these studies, there were no changes in protein degradation or increases inurea production. 
Even though the acute effect of exercise on protein turnover is catabolic, the long-
term effects are an overall increase in protein synthesis and lean body mass. Routineexercise produces maintenance or hypertrophy of muscle mass. Few studies have lookedat the postexercise recovery of protein turnover. The above report and a later report byDevlin et al.
81 suggest that recovery occurs through stimulation of protein synthesis. 
Preliminary studies by Layman et al. reported in the second edition of Nutrition
in Exercise and Sport  provide additional support for this recovery pattern.82 The
authors found that after a 2-hour bout of running on a motor-driven treadmill at 26m per minute, protein synthesis in the gastrocnemius muscle was suppressed by 26to 30% in fasted male rats. Recovery of protein synthesis occurred during the next4 to 8 hours even if the animals were withheld from eating. These data suggest thatmuscles have a very high capacity for recovery even during conditions of foodrestriction. Several recent studies have shown that exercise training and proteinintakes before and after exercise are important for maximizing the effects of exerciseon muscle protein synthesis and on subsequent recovery.
83–89
Just what factors control protein synthesis during exercise are being worked out,
although some general trends and associations have been recognized. For example,high-intensity exhaustive bouts of exercise produce a transient catabolic effect onprotein synthesis. This effect is controlled presumably at the translation level ofprotein synthesis. Transcription is depressed but RNA concentrations are unchangedduring the relatively brief period of the exercise bout. At the level of translation,potential regulatory controls include (1) availability of substrates, (2) hormones, (3)energy states, and (4) initiation factors.
90 
Recent studies have shown that, in part, the decline in protein synthesis is a
result of repressed signaling through a protein kinase referred to as the mammalian7950_C004.fm  Page 83  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

84 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
target of rapamycin (mTOR), which in turn affects translation initiation and elon-
gation phases of mRNA translation.91–93
A. E XERCISE -INDUCED  AMINO ACID FLUX 
The changes that occur in the BCAAs, alanine, and glutamine in the liver, plasma,and muscle during exercise suggest that individual amino acids may be limiting assubstrates for protein synthesis and that they may be an important source of energyfor various tissues and organs in the body. In general, decreases in protein synthesisand increases in protein degradation produce a net release of amino acids into theintracellular free pool that may or may not be reﬂected by increased plasma levels. 
Exercise is accompanied by changes in anabolic and catabolic hormones. It
would appear that the molecular mechanism for the action of these hormones ontranslation remains equivocal, but most evidence points to changes in the initiationphase of translation. 
The availability of energy may also be a limiting factor for muscle protein
synthesis. Studies have found that decreases in protein synthesis that occur inproportion to the number of contractions induced by electrical stimulation were inproportion to the decline in the level of ATP in muscle cells.
94 
V. ENERGY METABOLISM
A. I NTRODUCTION
The production of a steady supply of energy is crucial in maintaining life. Energy isneeded to form and repair cellular materials, to maintain the integrity of the body’scells and tissues, and for movement. Mammals derive energy from the carbon skeletonof macronutrients such as proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids. 
The ultimate fate of any nutrient, if not used structurally in the body — for
example as skeletal muscle — as readily available substrates in tissues and circula-tion (this “reservoir” of glucose, amino acids, glycerol, ketones, and fatty acids isvery small in comparison with total body macronutrient availability), or immediatelyfor energy, is to be transformed into glucose and deposited as glycogen, or intolipids and deposited mainly as triglycerides in fat cells. 
Energy is released when carbon–carbon and carbon–hydrogen bonds of the
macronutrients that come from our diets and are part of our bodies are broken andeither used directly or stored in other chemical bonds such as the high-phosphatebonds of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). When the high-phosphate body is broken,energy is released and made available to do work. 
Energy production in the human body revolves around the rebuilding of ATP
and to a lesser extent other nucleoside triphosphates such as guanosine triphosphate(GTP), cytidine triphosphate (CTP), thymidine triphosphate (TTP), and uridinetriphosphate (UTP). ATP generation is normally accomplished mostly under aerobicconditions by shuttling different proportions of all three micronutrients through thecitric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation, ending up with ATP, CO
2 and water. 
The mechanisms regulating energy production are complex, involving interac-
tions on many levels, including control of protein synthesis and breakdown, under7950_C004.fm  Page 84  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 85
resting and exercising conditions. For example, increased energy demands, reﬂected
by several changes including increased levels of adenosine monophosphate (AMP)and decreased levels of ATP and creatine phosphate, leads to adenosine monophos-phate kinase (AMPK) activation, inhibiting the mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR) which in turn decreases protein synthesis and increases protein break-down.
95–97 Another example is the need for energy during exercise leading to increases
in AMPK activity and reduced the translation repressor protein elf-4E-binding-protein(4E-BP1) phosphorylation, which in turn leads to decreases in protein synthesis.
98 
B. M ETABOLIC  PATHWAYS  PRODUCING  ATP 
Energy, mainly in the form of ATP, can be produced by both aerobic and anaerobicpathways. Overall, the aerobic pathways produce most of the ATP while the anaerobicpathways are crucial for maintaining energy production under general or tissuehypoxic conditions, such as intense exercise and ischemia. During strenuous exercise,regeneration of ATP, on which muscle contraction is dependent, is based on bothaerobic and anaerobic processes in varying degrees depending on oxygen availability. 
1. Anaerobic Energy Production
There are at least four anaerobic pathways. Three of these involve substrate-level
phosphorylation from phosphocreatine during anaerobic glycolysis, and in one ofthe steps in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. The fourth is less well known andalso involves the TCA cycle. The former two reactions occur in the cytoplasm whilethe latter occur in the mitochondria. 
a. Cytoplasmic Anaerobic Substrate Level Phosphorylation
1. Phosphagen mobilization is the simplest mechanism for generating ATP.
The best known example is creatine phosphate (PCr), catalyzed by cre-
atine phosphokinase (CPK), can readily transfer its phosphoryl group toADP to form ATP. 
PCr + ADP + H+ → ATP + creatine
Phosphagen mobilization also occurs between ATP, ADP and AMP. Thisrecoupling allows the formation of more ATP from shufﬂing high-phosphategroups, for example, 2 ADP recouple to form 1 ATP and 1 AMP.
99,100 
Phosphocreatine levels can be inﬂuenced by creatine levels in the diet,
levels of amino acid precursors in the diet, and by supplementation withcreatine and to a lesser extent from the amino acids methionine, arginine,and glycine. 
2. Anaerobic substrate-level glycolysis, the partial catabolism of glucose to
lactate, is the second cytoplasmic anaerobic means of forming ATP. Ifglycogen is the substrate instead of glucose, an extra mole of ATP isgenerated. The overall reaction is:
glucose +2 Pi + 2ADP < ==> 2 lactate + 2 H
2O + 2 ATP7950_C004.fm  Page 85  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

86 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
and this can be broken down to the two speciﬁc ATP-producing steps, which
are offset somewhat by the ATP-requiring step early on in glycolysis:
1,3-BPG + ADP → 3-PG + ATP
PEP + ADP → Pyruvate + ATP
Several factors involved in anaerobic glycolysis inﬂuence the amount ofATP generated. For example, the formation of lactate by lactate dehydro-genase generates nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD
+), which
allows glycolysis to continue. If NAD+ is not being regenerated by the
lactate dehydrogenase reaction there is an inhibition of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, which in turn blocks ATP generation bysubstrate level phosphorylation. 
b. Anerobic Mitochondrial Phosphorylation
Anaerobic mitochondrial metabolism can generate ATP via two pathways. The ﬁrst
is by substrate-level phosphorylation during the conversion of succinyl-CoA
 to suc-
cinate. In this reaction succinyl-CoA synthetase drives the reaction in which succi-nyl-CoA + GDP + Pi forms succinate + GTP + CoA. GTP is then coupled with ADP
to produce ATP. The GTP and ATP formed in this way are generally considered to
contribute to the overall mitochondrial ATP generation, most of which is formed byoxidative phosphorylation. However, there is some speculation that the products ofmitochondrial substrate level phosphorylation may be qualitatively different.
101 
In the second pathway, ATP is formed via electron transport in complexes I
and II driven by reduction of fumarate to succinate coupled to the oxidation of
reduced ubiquinone that is generated via NADH (the reduced form of NAD+) from
TCA cycle reducing equivalents.102–106 
Both pathways contribute to elevations of succinate and are operative to some extent
in all vertebrates, with the extent being dependent on adaptive responses. For example,
it has been shown that in diving vertebrates there is an accumulation of succinate inthe blood during breath-hold dives.
107 This production is thought to result from amino
acid catabolism leading to TCA cycle intermediates such as fumarate, malate, succinyl-CoA, and alpha-ketoglutarate, which in turn are fermented with succinate.
Amino acids can contribute to both aerobic and anaerobic energy metabolism
in several ways, both directly and indirectly — directly by providing the carbonskeletons that contribute to TCA cycle anaplerosis and indirectly by being used assubstrates for gluconeogenesis. 
2. Aerobic Energy Production
The TCA cycle, also called the Krebs cycle and the citric acid cycle, is a mitochon-
drial metabolic pathway that underlies most of the metabolic processes in the bodyand is essential for aerobic energy production. For example, this pathway is animportant source of biosynthetic building blocks used in gluconeogenesis, aminoacid biosynthesis, and fatty acid biosynthesis. 7950_C004.fm  Page 86  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 87
The basic energy process of the TCA cycle is the energy-producing oxidation
of acetyl-CoA through a series of intra-mitochondrial reactions. The acetyl-CoA
that enters the Krebs cycle comes from several sources, including the conversion ofpyruvate from glycolysis to acetyl-CoA by pyruvate dehydrogenase, the oxidationof fatty acids, ketone bodies, and the carbon skeletons of some amino acids. Theenergy released is trapped primarily as the reduced high-energy electron carriersNADH and FADH2, which transfer their chemical energy via oxidative phosphory-lation to the electron transport chain to produce ATP. 
During the nine steps of the TCA cycle, an acetyl-CoA molecule (2 carbons)
enters the cycle and condenses it with oxaloacetate (4 carbons) to create citrate (6carbons). The citrate is subsequently decarboxylated twice (forming 2 molecules ofCO
2, which, along with the CO2 released by pyruvate dehydrogenase when acetyl-
CoA is formed from pyruvate, is the source of CO2 released into the atmosphere
when you breathe) through a series of steps until it reaches oxaloacetate again,
leaving the net carbons the same with each turn of the cycle. The TCA cycle can
be summarized as follows:
Acetyl-CoA + 3 NAD+ + FAD + GDP + Pi + 2 H2O + 1 CoA-SH → 2 CoA-SH
+ 3 NADH + 3 H+ + FADH2 + GTP + 2 CO2 + 1 H2O 
While none of the steps in the pathway directly use oxygen, the activity of the
TCA cycle is linked to oxygen consumption to regenerate NAD +. If the oxygen
supply is low, the TCA cycle cannot continue even though some steps may proceedforward anaerobically to provide a limited amount of energy in the form of GPT.As well as oxygen, some TCA cycle enzymes need speciﬁc co-factors to function.For example, thiamine deﬁciency may lead to decreased activity of pyruvate dehy-drogenase and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, and a decrease in the ability ofthe TCA cycle to meet metabolic demands. 
3. TCA Cycle
The TCA cycle is more than just a catabolic pathway generating ATP. It is also a
metabolic hub where the intermediates are used to produce other biological com-pounds. For example, a transamination reaction converts interconverts glutamate andalpha-ketoglutarate. Glutamate is a precursor for the synthesis of other amino acidsand purine nucleotides. Succinyl-CoA is a precursor for porphyrins. Oxaloacetatecan be transaminated to form aspartate. Aspartate itself is a precursor for other aminoacids and pyrimidine nucleotides. Oxaloacetate and malate are substrates for gluco-neogenesis and they in turn can be produced by the increase in other TCA cycleintermediates (TCAI). 
Cytoplasmic and mitochondrial pathways are intertwined by the transfer of TCA
cycle intermediates back and forth. For example, citrate can be exported out of themitochondria into the cytostol where is broken down by ATPcitrate lyase to yieldoxaloacetate and acetyl-CoA. Under certain circumstances, the acetyl-CoA producedcan be used as a precursor for fatty acids. The oxaloacetate produced in this reaction7950_C004.fm  Page 87  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

88 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
is reduced to malate, which can either be transported back into the matrix of the
mitochondria where it is reoxidized into oxaloacetate, or be oxidatively decarbox-ylated to pyruvate by malic enzyme, which can then be transported back to themitochondria. All of these reactions and interchanges serve to optimize metabolicprocesses involved in anabolic and catabolic functions, as well as contributing toanaplerotic and cataplerotic pathways. 
The level of TCA cycle intermediates (TCAI) and the ﬂux rate of the TCA cycle
are both important determinants in TCA cycle function and energy production. Whilethe amount of TCAI is relatively small and constant, varying in size by three or fourtimes, the turnover and throughput of the cycle can vary dramatically depending ondemand. To sustain ﬂux through the TCA cycle and thus regenerate ATP, it isimportant that TCAI be maintained within certain ranges, which requires that leakageof TCAI and their use in various metabolic pathways, termed as cataplerosis, mustbe balanced by anaplerosis, supplying TCAI to the cycle from various sources. 
The main anaplerotic sources are pyruvate, certain amino acids, and 3 to 5 carbon
derivatives of fatty acid metabolism. Amino acids are involved not only in supplying
anaplerotic substrates directly into the TCA cycle, but also in supplying oxaloacetate
and malate either by supplying glucose for glycolysis via gluconeogenesis or bysupplying pyruvate and phosphoenolpyruvate, which in turn are carboxylated toform oxaloacetate and malate. 
C. R OLE OF PROTEIN  AND AMINO ACIDS IN ENERGY  METABOLISM
Amino acids have three possible fates in the body. They can be used for and inﬂuenceprotein synthesis, used to produce pyruvate and/or TCA cycle intermediates (andthus be used for gluconeogenesis, glyconeogenesis, and fatty acid synthesis), or theircarbon skeletons can be used for energy production. All three processes are ongoingto some extent — the degree that each is active depends on the nutritional environ-ment. For example, in times of dietary surplus, the potentially toxic nitrogen ofamino acids is eliminated via transaminations, deamination, and urea formation; thecarbon skeletons, while used to some extent for energy production, are mostlyconserved as carbohydrate via gluconeogenesis, or as fatty acid via fatty acid syn-thesis pathways. 
However, even though amino acids have traditionally been relegated to a minor
role in energy production, with fats and carbohydrates considered the major sub-strates, they nonetheless under some circumstances have a substantial and cruciallyimportant role in energy metabolism. In extreme cases, by providing substrates fordirect energy production, and indirectly by providing carbon skeletons for the for-mation of TCAI, glucose, glycogen, acetyl units, and fatty acids, amino acids canprovide up to half or more of energy requirements. 
As we have seen, the history of protein requirements for athletes and protein’s
energy contribution has had its up and downs. In the mid-1800s, popular opinionwas that protein was the primary fuel for working muscle. The consensus lately isthat proteins are not major contributors to energy metabolism. However, we are nowstarting to reexamine the role of protein in energy metabolism and are ﬁnding that,while it may not be the primary fuel, it is at times a major source of energy. 7950_C004.fm  Page 88  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 89
Under normal conditions it is generally accepted today that the contribution
made by proteins to the energy value of most well-balanced diets is usually between
10 and 15% of the total and seldom exceeds 20%. For example, at rest and with adiet that contains signiﬁcant amounts of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins, carbohy-drates and fats are the preferred substrates for energy production. At that time theoxidation of amino acids accounts for less than 10% of the total energy needs.However, under certain conditions, for example very low-carbohydrate diets, becauseof the role that protein has in gluconeogenesis and TCA cycle anaplerosis, proteinsmake a much larger contribution to energy metabolism. 
An example would be when energy consumption in the form of carbohydrates
and fats is low. In these cases, whether due to a lack of fat and carbohydratesavailability even in diets containing adequate energy in the form of protein, or dueto a hypocaloric diet, the energy needs of the body take priority and dietary and tissueproteins will be utilized at the expense of the building or repair processes of the body.
However, the amount of protein involved in energy metabolism can be substan-
tial, and in some cases, overshadow the roles of both fats and carbohydrates, at leastas far as the ultimate source of energy. As such, in people on high-protein, low-carbohydrate diets, and especially in bodybuilders and elite endurance and powerathletes who may be on very high-protein isocaloric and hypocaloric diets, thecontribution can be as high as 50%, and in selective cases even more. As well,protein oxidation rises in various other situations such as trauma and sepsis. 
In my view, the contribution that protein makes to energy metabolism, including
both the complete oxidation of the carbon skeletons, directly or indirectly by thevarious transformations (gluconeogenesis and glycolytic-TCA cycle interactions) isunderappreciated and more studies need to be done to determine the amount ofprotein carbon that actually contributes to energy metabolism both at rest and duringexercise. As it stands, even in studies where the contribution of protein is obvious,
108
that contribution is often glossed over. 
D. F ATE OF DIETARY  PROTEIN
Unlike the fats and carbohydrates that can be stored in the form of triglycerides andglycogen, there is no storage form of protein or amino acids. All of the protein andamino acids (except for a very small but important amount of free amino acids thatmake up the plasma and intracellular amino acid pool) serve either a structural ormetabolic function. Recently, however, there is some evidence to show that, undersome circumstances, protein plays a prominent role in energy metabolism. 
Excess amino acids from dietary protein are normally deaminated or transami-
nated by the liver, while the non-nitrogenous portion of the molecule is transformedinto glucose and used directly, or into fat or glycogen. The unneeded nitrogen isconverted to urea and excreted in the urine. Endogenous protein goes throughanabolic and catabolic phases, usually in time with absorptive and postabsorptivestates, and under various stressors including exercise. Part of this protein is alsoused for energy metabolism. 
In general, the more protein that is ingested and the larger the body muscle
mass, the more deamination and transamination of amino acids occurs to fulﬁll7950_C004.fm  Page 89  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

90 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
energy needs. Each kilocalorie needed for basal metabolism leads to the excretion
of 1 to 1.3 mg of urinary nitrogen. Because of the increased use of amino acids forenergy production, nitrogen excretion increases during exercise and heavy work,although this increase in not always in proportion to the amount of energy generated. 
Protein requirements and the use of amino acids for energy production are raised
if other energy sources are not ingested in adequate amounts — as is sometimesseen in persons and athletes on either low-fat or low-carbohydrate diets to decreasetheir weight and body fat levels. 
Amino acids ingested without other energy sources makes for a less than ideal
diet. This inefﬁciency is partly because of the energy lost during amino acid metab-olism and the energy cost of protein synthesis — incorporation of each amino acidmolecule into peptides requires three high-energy phosphate bonds. Consequently,excess of dietary energy over basal needs, whether as fats, carbohydrates, or proteins,improves the efﬁciency of nitrogen utilization. 
E. P ROTEIN  CONTRIBUTION  TO ENERGY  METABOLISM
In the body, amino acids may be used for primarily protein synthesis or energyproduction, depending upon (1) protein quality, (2) caloric level of the diet, (3) stageof development, including growth, pregnancy, and lactation, (4) prior nutritionalstatus, and (5) stress factors such as exercise, fever, injury, and immobilization.Protein oxidation is a term used to describe the release of
 energy from the carbon
skeleton of amino acids after deamination.
Four ways that proteins provide energy are through (1) direct oxidation of the
carbon skeletons; (2) gluconeogeneis via alanine, glutamine, and lactate; (3) storageas fat or glycogen; and (4) anapleurotic contributions that cycle through the mito-chondria and cytoplasm and result in the oxidation of resulting 2 carbon units in theTCA cycle. 
F. A MINO ACID CATABOLISM
The catabolism of amino acids yields energy, about 4 Calories (kcal) per gram ofprotein, notwithstanding the higher energy costs of processing dietary protein. Toallow amino acids to be used for energy, the amino group (NH
2) must ﬁrst be removed
by a process known as deamination, where the amino group is removed; or tran-samination, where the amino group is transferred to another structure to form a newamino acid (see below). 
The deaminated carbon skeletons — alpha keto acid residues — that are not
used for forming new amino acids enter the glycolytic and TCA cycle, intertwiningbetween mitochondrial and cytoplasm pathways involving 2, 3, and 4 carbon inter-mediates (see below) are either converted to glucose and glycogen (glucogenic,gycogenic pathways) or metabolized in fat pathways (ketogenic pathway) either tobe fully oxidized via the TCA cycle, or used for fatty acid formation. For moreinformation see section 4.5.2.3. 
When energy consumption in the form of carbohydrates and fats is low, the
energy needs of the body take priority and dietary and tissue proteins will be utilizedat the expense of the building or repair processes of the body.7950_C004.fm  Page 90  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 91
1. Oxidation of Amino Acids
Once the needed proteins are synthesized and the amino acid pools replenished,
additional amino acids are degraded and used for energy or stored mainly as fat and,to a lesser extent, as glycogen. The primary site for degradation of most amino acidsis the liver. The liver is unique because of its capacity to degrade amino acids andsynthesize urea for elimination of the amino nitrogen. 
A number of mechanisms are brought into play to both conserve nitrogen when
fed a low-protein
 diet, and to oxidize the surplus when presented with an immediate
excess. For example, the nitrogen catabolic enzymes and those involved in the ﬁrst
step in the catabolism of the essential amino acids are up- and down-regulated in
response to an increase or decrease in dietary protein. 
The ﬁrst step in the degradation of amino acids begins with deamination — the
removal of the alpha-amino group from the amino acid to produce an oxoacid, whichmay be a simple metabolic intermediate itself (e.g., pyruvate) or be converted to asimple metabolic intermediate via a speciﬁc metabolic pathway. The intermediatesare either oxidized via the citric acid cycle or converted to glucose via gluconeo-genesis. For instance, deaminated alanine is pyruvic acid. This can be converted intoglucose or glycogen. Or it can be converted into acetyl-CoA, which can then bepolymerized into fatty acids. Also, two molecules of acetyl-CoA can condense toform acetoacetic acid, which is one of the ketone bodies.
The larger the body muscle mass, the more transamination of amino acids occurs
to fulﬁll energy needs. Each kcal needed for basal metabolism leads to the excretionof 1 to 1.3 mg of urinary nitrogen. For the same reason, nitrogen excretion increasesduring exercise and heavy work. 
The human body, through metabolic and hormonal controls, has evolved to meet
its continuous metabolic and energy needs even though eating, and thus provisionof essential nutrients, is intermittent. Nutrients in the absorptive state (the time duringand right after a meal, usually lasting about 4–8 hours depending on the compositionof the meal and the state of the organism) are ﬁltered through the liver (with theliver modifying or simply conveying glucose, amino acids, and fatty acids to thesystemic circulation and thus to the rest of the body). Such nutrients, coming fromthe food ingested, are used preferentially for energy production and energy storage. 
In the postabsorptive period (after a meal has been completely digested and the
resulting nutrients absorbed into the body — again, usually 4–8 hours after a mealduring which the transition from the postprandial to the fasting state occurs, andeven under fasting conditions (as long as the fasting state is not extensive), the bodytends to keep a constant energy output by mobilizing internal substrates (glycogen,cellular and body fat, cellular protein) that can be used as energy sources. 
Postabsorptive energy sources include both circulating and stored macronutri-
ents. Those that are readily available include circulating glucose, fatty acids, andtriglycerides, liver and muscle glycogen, muscle triglycerides, the branched chainamino acids (used by skeletal muscle) and the amino acids alanine and glutamine,which are released from skeletal muscle and used for gluconeogenesis — in the caseof glutamine, directly as fuel by the immune system and gastrointestinal tract).
109,110 
Circulating glucose is replenished mainly through hepatic glycogenolysis (break-
down of glycogen) and gluconeogenic (formation of glucose from other compounds7950_C004.fm  Page 91  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

92 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
such as lactate, glycerol, alanine, and glutamine) processes mainly in the liver, but
also involving skeletal muscle, kidney and GI tract. 
In a normal 70-kg man these postabsorptive energy sources provide up to
1200 kcal (800 calories from carbohydrate sources). These sources are exhausted
in less than 24 hours if no other food is consumed. 
In an individual who is dieting to lose weight or in an athlete who is limiting
both caloric and fat intake to maximize lean body mass and minimize body fat, thesesources may amount to less than 500 kcal, since liver and muscle glycogen levelsas well as circulating triglycerides and fatty acids are often limited, and, in the caseof the athlete, would easily be exhausted during a training session. In cases wherethe available energy is used up while training, other energy sources are called uponto supply the energy needed both during and after training until nutrients are ableto be absorbed from a post-training meal. 
Fatty acids and ketones formed by the catabolism of body fat (triglycerides) can
be used by most tissues in the body. However, in the short term, certain tissues suchas the brain can only use glucose for energy. Thus, glucose or substances that can
be converted to glucose are vital to survival. The lack of glucose in the short term
results in the formation of glucose through gluconeogenesis, a process by whichglucose is formed from other substrates, mainly lactate, pyruvate, glycerol and aminoacids.
111–113  Amino acids, a major substrate for glucose production, come from
skeletal muscle, leading to a loss of both contractile and non-contractile protein. 
Short-term extreme adaptations to energy needs beyond the immediate available
energy are varied. Certain tissues, such as the heart, kidney, and skeletal muscle,change their primary fuel substrate from glucose to fatty acids and ketone bodiesrather readily. Others, such as the brain, take longer and use only glucose (fromgluconeogenesis) and ketones as energy sources.
114
Although fatty acids cannot be directly converted to glucose, the energy produced
from the oxidation of free fatty acids (FFAs) can be used to fuel the conversion ofcertain other substrates into glucose (gluconeogenesis being an energy-requiringprocess), thus sparing somewhat the use of structural and contractile protein forglucose formation. For example, lactate and pyruvate are formed from anaerobicglycolysis and released systemically. In the liver they are converted to glucose, whichis then released for other tissues to use. This shuttle is called the Cori cycle.
115,116
As well, the energy garnered through fatty acid oxidation is used for transformingglycerol into glucose. 
With ongoing energy deprivation or low-carbohydrate intake, other adaptations
appear. The brain, which ordinarily obtains energy only by glucose oxidation,acquires the ability to use keto acids for its fuel requirements, and this furthercontributes to protein conservation. 
G. G LUCONEOGENESIS  
As we have seen, certain processes such as glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis, increas-ing fatty acid oxidation, utilization of ketones, proteolysis, and others ensure thatthe body has a continuous supply of available energy and substrates for its metabolicneeds. Endogenous glucose production depends on glycogenolysis (glucose fromglycogen) and gluconeogenesis (glucose from amino acids, lactate, and glycerol). 7950_C004.fm  Page 92  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 93
The rise in blood glucose and the subsequent rise in insulin that occur after a
meal promote glycogen storage in liver and muscle, and fat deposition in adipose
tissue, skeletal muscle, and liver. After a meal, both glucose and insulin levels falland liver glycogen through the process of glycogenolysis becomes the primarysource of available glucose. 
Maintenance of plasma glucose concentrations within a narrow range despite
wide ﬂuctuations in the demand (e.g., vigorous exercise) and supply (e.g., largecarbohydrate meals) of glucose results from coordination of factors that regulateglucose release into and removal from the circulation.
117 
The degree of contribution to glucose production from glycogenolysis vs.
gluconeogenesis varies with the metabolic environment, macronutrient intake, andbody composition.
118 For example, due to limited endogenous carbohydrate stores,
dietary restriction of carbohydrate results in an increase in gluconeogenesis to both
supply glucose directly and to increase hepatic glycogen levels, thus supporting
glycogenolysis.119 
Muscle glycogen levels cannot contribute to blood glucose levels directly
although it can contribute to glycolysis providing anaerobic ATP for skeletal muscle
contractions, and contribute to the formation of lactate, glycerol, alanine, andglutamine, substrates for hepatic gluconeogenesis. 
It is often believed that gluconeogenesis from amino acids is a process that
occurs only under physical stress and starvation in order to provide glucose, andthat the need to provide glucose is a driving factor in the increased gluconeogenesistaking place at these times. It is also generally believed that gluconeogenesis fromamino acids is a minor process in the fed state. In fact, conversion of the glucogenicmoieties of the degraded amino acids to glucose occurs even in the fed state. 
A detailed quantitative analysis of the energy exchanges associated with the
degradation of amino acids in man demonstrates that gluconeogenesis and export ofglucose is essential, because complete oxidation of the amino acid mixture by theliver would provide much more ATP than needed by the liver and the oxygen con-sumption greater than that available to the liver.
120 Gluconeogenesis from amino acids
must thus be regarded as a normal process associated with amino acid degradation,occurring at higher rates under conditions of normal food intake than during fasting. 
1. Amino Acids and Gluconeogenesis
Lactate, pyruvate, glycerol, and certain amino acids are used by the liver, kidney,
and intestinal tract to form glucose. Under normal conditions, amino acids, especiallyalanine and glutamine, serve as major substrates for gluconeogenesis.
121 
It has been shown that, even under normal conditions, a major fate of dietary
amino acids is for hepatic gluconeogenesis. Interestingly enough, dietary carbohy-drate content only minimally affects hepatic gluconeogenesis from dietary aminoacids, with only a slight increase seen during severe carbohydrate restriction.
122 As
well, an increase in free fatty acids has been shown to increase gluconeogenesis butonly at high plasma FFA concentrations.
123 
In one study, the contribution under various nutritional regimens of several amino
acids and lactate to gluconeogenesis was estimated by measuring the glucose for-mation from 14C-labeled substrates.
124 Isolated rat hepatocytes were incubated for7950_C004.fm  Page 93  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

94 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
60 minutes in a Krebs-Ringer bicarbonate buffer pH 7.4 containing lactate, pyruvate,
and all the amino acids at concentrations similar to their physiological levels foundin rat plasma, with one precursor labeled in each ﬂask. In all conditions, lactate wasthe major glucose precursor, providing over 60% of the glucose formed. Glutamineand alanine were the major amino acid precursors of glucose, contributing 9.8 and10.6% of the glucose formed, respectively, in hepatocytes isolated from starved rats.Serine, glycine, and threonine also contributed to gluconeogenesis in the starvedliver cells at 2.6, 2.1, and 3.8%, respectively, of the glucose formed. 
In this study it was shown that the availability of dietary carbohydrates varies
the gluconeogenic response. The rate of glucose formation from the isolated hepa-tocytes of the starved rats and those fed either high protein or high fat was higherthan from rats fed a nonpuriﬁed diet.
124
The low-insulin and high-glucagon output that characterizes the post-absorptive
phase and fasting (the lower the glucose level the lower the insulin and higher theglucagon output) stimulates both glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis. Initially,approximately 70 to 75% of the hepatic glucose output is derived from glycogenol-
ysis and the remainder from gluconeogenesis. 
Starvation is associated initially with an increased release of the gluconeogenic
amino acids from muscles and an increase in gluconeogenesis.
125 In one study
looking at amino acid balance across forearm muscles in post-absorptive (overnight
fasted) subjects, fasting signiﬁcantly reduced basal insulin and increased glucagon,and increased muscle release of the principal glycogenic amino acids (alanine,glutamine, glycine, threonine, serine, methionine, tyrosine, and lysine).
126 In this
study, alanine release increased 59.4%. The increase in release for all amino acidsaveraged 69.4% and was statistically signiﬁcant for threonine, serine, glycine, ala-nine, alpha-aminobutyrate, methionine, tyrosine, and lysine. In the same study, sevensubjects were also fasted for 60 hours. In these subjects there was a reduction ofamino acid release as the fasting continued. 
Since these changes reproduce those observed after a few days of total fasting,
it has been suggested that it is the carbohydrate restriction itself, and the subsequentdecrease in insulin and increase in glucagon, that is responsible for the metabolicand hormonal adaptations of brief fasting.
127 A reduction in the release of substrate
amino acids from skeletal muscle largely explains the decrease in gluconeogenesischaracterizing prolonged starvation.
A similar response, an initial increase in gluconeogenesis followed in time by
a decrease, is seen in trauma such as burn injury
128 and in prolonged exercise.129 
During prolonged mild exercise that increases the hepatic glucose output two-
fold, the relative contribution of gluconeogenesis to the overall hepatic outputincreases from 25 to 45%, indicating a three-fold rise in the absolute rate of gluco-neogenesis. After 12 to 13 hours of fasting, hepatic gluconeogenesis replaces gly-cogenolysis as the main source of glucose.
130 In one study on six subjects the
contribution of gluconeogenesis to glucose production was 41, 71, and 92% at 12,20 and 40 hours, respectively.
131 
As well, there is an increase in gluconeogenesis with type II diabetes132 and
obesity. A recent study found that the fractional and absolute contribution of gluco-neogenesis to glucose production is higher in obesity and is associated with increased7950_C004.fm  Page 94  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 95
rates of protein turnover and insulin resistance of glucose, lipid, and protein metab-
olism.133 The study also found a lower contribution to glucose production from
hepatic glycogenolysis. 
Insulin resistance, by mechanisms that involve suppression of PI3K/Akt signal-
ing leading to activation of caspase-3 and the ubiquitin-proteasome proteolytic path-
way, leads to an increase in muscle protein degradation,134 and a subsequent increase
in gluconeogenesis. 
2. Hormonal Control of Gluconeogenesis
Among the hormones responsible for a rise in gluconeogenesis one must take into
account adrenaline, glucagon, glucocorticoids, growth hormone, and insulin. Thesehormones can act either directly on the gluconeogenic enzymes or on the mobiliza-tion of precursors necessary for gluconeogenesis (the 3-carbon precursors, includinglactate, alanine, and glycerol). On a moment-to-moment basis, however, these pro-cesses are controlled mainly by the glucocorticoids insulin and glucagon, whose
secretions are reciprocally inﬂuenced by the plasma glucose concentration. The
glucocorticoids increase the activity of the glucose-alanine cycle. Insulin decreasesthe supply of gluconeogenic substrates and inhibits the glucose-alanine cycle.Thus, the ex ercise-induced hypoinsulinemia is a promoting factor in gluconeoge-
nesis. In the resting postabsorptive state, release of glucose from the liver (usuallyequally via glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis) is the key regulated process. 
Glycogenolysis depends on the relative activities of glycogen synthase and
phosphorylase, the latter being the more important. The activities of fructose-1,6-diphosphatase, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylkinase, and pyruvate dehydrogenase,whose main precursors are lactate, alanine, and glutamine, regulate gluconeogenesis. 
In the immediate postprandial state, due to the availability of substrates coming
from the GI tract, suppression of liver glucose output and stimulation of skeletalmuscle glucose uptake are the most important factors. Glucose disposal by insulin-sensitive tissues is regulated initially at the transport step and then mainly by glycogensynthase, phosphofructokinase, and pyruv ate dehydrogenase. Hormonally induced
changes in intracellular fructose 2,6-bisphosphate concentrations play a key role inmuscle glycolytic ﬂux and both glycolytic and gluconeogenic ﬂux in the liver. 
Under stressful conditions (e.g., hypoglycemia, trauma, vigorous exercise),
increased secretion of other hormones such as adrenaline, cortisol, and growthhormone, and increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system, come into play.Their actions to increase hepatic glucose output and to suppress tissue glucose uptakeare partly mediated by increases in tissue fatty acid oxidation. 
In diabetes, the most common disorder of glucose homeostasis, fasting hyper-
glycemia results primarily from excessive release of glucose by the liver due toincreased gluconeogenesis; postprandial hyperglycemia results from both impairedsuppression of hepatic glucose release and impaired skeletal muscle glucose uptake.These abnormalities are usually due to the combination of impaired insulin secretionand tissue resistance to insulin. 
As noted above, under normal conditions the amount of readily available energy
coming from carbohydrate sources is only about 800 kcal — and includes the 120 grams7950_C004.fm  Page 95  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

96 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
or so of glycogen from the body’s skeletal muscle, 70 g of glycogen in the liver and
10 grams of glucose in the blood. Adipose tissue, on the other hand, provides analmost limitless supply of available energy, about 100,000 calories from the averageperson’s 15 kg of fat. 
Muscle glycogen and FFAs from adipose tissue and intramuscular stores provide
energy both at rest and during low-intensity exercise. At these levels, substrate avail-ability does not limit activity since there is so much potential energy available frombody fat. FFA mobilization from adipose tissue (catecholamines stimulate adiposelipase, which breaks each triglyceride molecule down to form 1 glycerol and 3 fattyacid molecules) starts with any kind of activity. FFAs are metabolized in musclecells to acetyl-CoA that subsequently enters the citric acid cycle, forming ATP as itis oxidatively metabolized. 
While FFA mobilization may lag at ﬁrst, it soon results in high FFA blood levels
of up to six times the normal level. These levels of FFA are so high that it can’t allbe utilized by muscle. Perhaps one of the reasons for the overproduction of FFA isto release glycerol, a substrate for gluconeogenesis. 
3. Effects of Amino Acids on Hepatic Glucose Metabolism
Amino acids have direct (substrate mediated) and indirect (hormone mediated)
effects on hepatic glucose metabolism. The hormonal effects include the simulta-neous increase in endogenous levels of insulin and glucagon.
135,136  This simultaneous
increase leads to an increase in endogenous glucose production mainly by gluco-neogenesis, since higher insulin concentrations are needed to suppress gluconeo-genesis as compared with glycogenolysis.
137 
One study found that conditions creating postprandial amino acid elevation
stimulate secretion of insulin and glucagon, but do not affect glycaemia despitemarkedly increased gluconeogenesis.
138 The rise in endogenous glucose production
was counterbalanced by an insulin-stimulated increase in glucose disposal, whichthereby served to maintain fasting plasma glucose concentrations.
H. U SE OF AMINO ACIDS FOR ENERGY  — C ATABOLIC  EFFECTS  OF EXERCISE  
Typical responses to acute exercise are suppressed protein synthesis and elevatedprotein degradation. Comparison of these responses in muscle containing varioustypes of ﬁbers indicated that the rate of protein synthesis was suppressed and therate of protein degradation was elevated mainly in muscles less active during exer-cise. Thus, the less active muscles, but not those that fulﬁll the main task duringexercise performance, are used as a reservoir for mobilization of protein resources.The exercise-induced catabolism is not extended to contractile proteins. Duringexercise, the catabolic response is extended to the smooth muscle of the gastrointes-tinal tract, lymphoid tissue, liver, and kidney.
Both the anti-anabolic and catabolic effects have to be considered as tools for
mobilization of protein resources during a stressful situation. As a result, an increasedpool of available free amino acids is created. Due to the suppressed protein synthesis,the free amino acids pool is used for supplying the necessary protein synthesis by7950_C004.fm  Page 96  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 97
“building materials” only to a minor extent. The amino acids are mainly used for
additional energy supply to contracting muscles. 
There are at least three pathways connecting free amino acids with energy
processes. One of these consists in the oxidation of branched-chain amino acids.The main site of this pathway is the contracting muscle. An increased oxidation ofleucine during exercise was established in human as well as in animal studies. Themetabolism of several amino acids leads to the formation of metabolites of the citriccycle, which also has a beneﬁcial effect on muscle metabolism by increasing thecapacity of the citric cycle for oxidizing the acetyl-CoA units generated from pyru-vate and FFAs. 
1. Amino Acid Metabolism in Muscle
There are three principal sources of amino acids for energy metabolism: dietary
protein, plasma and tissue free amino acid pools, and endogenous tissue protein.
All three sources are in equilibrium. Dietary protein is a relatively minor source
of amino acids during normal exercise since ingesting a large protein meal prior to
exercise is rarely done. The plasma pool of free amino acids is much smaller thanthe free amino acid pool of human skeletal muscle largely because skeletal musclemakes up about 40% of bodyweight and contains about 75% of the whole-body freeamino acids. 
The free amino acid pools, however, are much smaller than the amount of amino
acids available from endogenous protein breakdown. It has been estimated that the
intramuscular amino acid pool contains less that 1% of the metabolically activeamino acids. It has also been estimated that the amount of leucine oxidized duringa prolonged exercise bout is approximately 25 times greater than the free leucineconcentration in muscle, liver, and plasma. Therefore, the free amino acid pool isonly a minor source of amino acids during exercise, whereas the most importantsource is endogenous protein breakdown.
2. Pathways of Amino Acid Metabolism in Muscle
Many of the amino acids can be oxidized by skeletal muscle including alanine,
arginine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glycine, phenylalanine, threonine, tyrosine,and the three BCAA. Not all of these amino acids, however, have the same metabolicpotential in muscle and it appears that the BCAA are the dominant amino acidsoxidized by skeletal muscle. The catabolism of amino acids involves the removalof the alpha-amino group by transamination or oxidative deamination, followed byconversion of the carbon skeleton to metabolites that are common to the pathwaysof carbohydrate and fat metabolism. It should be noted that the avenues availablefor amino acid catabolism and conversion are extensive, and the ﬁnal products, theirfates, and the pathways available to them are all quite complex. 
3. Skeletal Muscle Catabolism
Signiﬁcant gaps remain in our knowledge of the pathways of amino acid catabolism
in humans. Sufﬁcient information, however, does exist to allow a broad picture of7950_C004.fm  Page 97  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

98 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
the overall process of amino acid oxidation to be developed along with approximate
quantitative assessments of the role played by liver, muscle, kidney, and smallintestine. For example, one study found that amino acids are the major fuel of liver,i.e., their oxidative conversion to glucose accounts for about one-half of the dailyoxygen consumption of the liver, and no other fuel contributes nearly so impor-tantly.
139 
The daily supply of amino acids provided in the diet cannot be totally oxidized
to CO2 in the liver because such a process would provide far more ATP than the
liver could utilize and not enough ATP would be generated in other tissues. Instead,most amino acids are oxidatively converted to glucose. This results in an overallATP production during amino acid oxidation very nearly equal to the ATP requiredto convert amino acid carbon to glucose. 
ATP is thus produced in the muscle cells both by anaerobic glycolysis and
oxidation of amino acids, while ATP is used up in liver cells to produce glucosefrom the carbon skeletons. Thus the glucose-alanine cycle in an indirect way transfersATP from the liver to the peripheral tissues. 
It is commonly thought that only ATP, phosphocreatine, and glycolysis (the con-
version of glucose into pyruvic acid) provides cellular energy under anaerobic condi-tions. Such is not the case, however, because, as we have seen, amino acid catabolismcoupled with the TCA cycle can also provide a source of anaerobic energy production. 
In a study on anoxic heart muscle, glutamate and aspartate catabolized at a
higher rate as compared with oxygenation.
140 The data obtained from this study
suggests that the constant inﬂux of intermediates into the cycle from amino acidsis supported by coupled transamination of glutamate and aspartate. This leads to theformation of ATP and GTP in the citric acid or tricarboxylic acid cycle duringblocking of aerobic energy production. Succinate, a component of the citric acidcycle, is thought to result from amino acid catabolism. 
In another study on cat heart papillary muscle, supplying hypoxic contracting
muscles with aspartate resulted in maintenance of muscular function to some extentand led to augmented release of succinate and lactate.
141 The data from this study
indicate that anaerobic succinate formation is correlated to the energy-requiringprocesses of the myocardium. Maintenance of myocardial function by the supplyof amino acids may be related to their conversion into succinate. In some studies,it has been shown that in the human heart glutamate may be used as an anaerobicfuel through conversion to succinate coupled with GTP formation.
142 
Since amino acids can be used as fuel in both aerobic and anaerobic states,
muscle catabolism occurs under both conditions to provide the needed substrates.The use of parenteral or enteral amino acid mixtures and combinations of speciﬁcamino acids can attenuate this catabolic and counterproductive response to exercise. 
4. Oxidation of Amino Acids
The contribution made by proteins to the energy value of most well-balanced diets
is usually between 10 and 15% of the total and seldom exceeds 20%. In some athletesin power sports and in bodybuilders who may be on very high-protein diets, thecontribution can be as high as 50%, and in selective cases even more. 7950_C004.fm  Page 98  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 99
Once the needed proteins are synthesized and the amino acid pools replenished,
additional amino acids are degraded and used for energy or stored mainly as fat and
to a lesser extent as glycogen. The primary site for degradation of most amino acidsis the liver, which is unique because of its capacity to degrade amino acids and tosynthesize urea for elimination of the amino nitrogen. 
The ﬁrst step in the degradation of amino acids begins with deamination — the
removal of the alpha-amino group from the amino acid to produce an oxoacid, whichmay be a simple metabolic intermediate itself (e.g., pyruvate) or be converted to asimple metabolic intermediate via a speciﬁc metabolic pathway. The intermediatesare either oxidized via the citric acid cycle or converted to glucose via gluconeo-genesis. For instance, deaminated alanine is pyruvic acid. This can be converted intoglucose or glycogen, or it can be converted into acetyl-CoA, which can then bepolymerized into fatty acids. Also, 2 molecules of acetyl-CoA can condense to formacetoacetic acid, which is one of the ketone bodies.
Deamination occurs mainly by transamination, the transfer of the amino group
to some other acceptor compound. Deamination generally occurs by the followingtransamination pathway:
alpha-ketoglutaric acid + amino acid → glutamic acid + alpha-keto acid
glutamic acid + NAD + + H2O → NADH + H+ + NH3 + alpha-ketoglutaric acid 
Note from this schema that the amino group from the amino acid is transferred toalpha-ketoglutaric acid, which then becomes glutamic acid. The glutamic acid canthen transfer the amino group to still other substances or can release it in the formof NH
3. In the process of losing the amino group the glutamic acid once again
becomes alpha-ketoglutaric acid, so that the cycle can be repeated again and again.
To initiate this process, the excess amino acids in the cells, especially in the
liver, induce the activation of large quantities of aminotransferases, the enzymesresponsible for initiating most deamination. Hepatic tissue contains high concentra-tions of the degradative enzymes, including the aminotransferases (with the excep-tion of the branched-chain aminotransferase), which remove the alpha-amino groupsduring the ﬁrst step in amino acid degradation. Branched chain aminotransferaseresults in the release of BCAA into circulation and is exclusively a mitochondrialenzyme in skeletal muscles.
143 
For example, degradation of the BCAAs is initiated by the reversible transam-
ination of the BCAA to the alpha-keto acid with transfer of the alpha-amino groupto alpha-ketoglutarate, forming glutamate. This step appears to be nearly at equilib-rium with little physiological control. The second and rate-limiting step is decar-boxylation of the branched-chain keto acids by branched-chain keto acid dehydro-genase (BCKAD). BCKAD activity is highly regulated by phosphorylation anddephosphorylation to the inactive and active forms, respectively. This step is stim-ulated by increases in the concentration of the leucine keto acid, alpha-ketoisoca-proate (KIC). 
During periods of increased energy needs, such as starvation, trauma, and exer-
cise, increased levels of BCAAs stimulate BCKAD and the BCAAs are degraded7950_C004.fm  Page 99  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

100 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
to energy in skeletal muscle. During absorption periods when muscles are using
glucose as a primary fuel, muscle transaminates the BCAA and releases the ketoacids into circulation for complete oxidation by the liver or kidney. In the liver, theseintermediates, formed either in the liver or from other tissues, are either oxidizedvia the citric acid cycle or converted to glucose via gluconeogenesis. A deaminatedamino acid can enter the citric acid cycle at different levels, including acetyl-CoA,pyruvate, oxaloacetate, alpha-ketoglutarate, succinyl-CoA, or fumarate.
144 Both iso-
leucine and valine form succinyl-CoA, whereas leucine forms acetyl-CoA. Of these,only the carbons of acetyl-CoA from leucine can be oxidized directly in the citricacid cycle; the other intermediates must ﬁrst be converted to pyruvate via phospho-enolpyruvate before their carbons are available for oxidation in the citric acid cycleas acetyl-CoA.
Within skeletal muscle, BCAA degradation involves transfer of the alpha-
amino group to ketoglutarate to form glutamate. Glutamate serves as an importantintermediate in nitrogen metabolism. While glutamate is formed de novo  in
skeletal muscle, there is no net release. Once the amino group is transferred to
glutamate, there are three primary fates. The amino group can be transferred
either to pyruvate in synthesis of alanine or onto oxaloacetate for the synthesisof aspartate, or the glutamate can release the amino group in the form of NH
3
and reform ketogluterate, at the same time releasing 2 hydrogen atoms, whichare oxidized to form ATP.
Alanine is released from muscle into circulation and is ultimately removed by
the liver for gluconeogenesis. Aspartate is an important component of the purinenucleotide cycle, which is central to maintaining the pool of ATP in muscle. Thepurine nucleotide cycle serves to regenerate IMP and also produces fumarate andfree NH
3. The ammonia can be combined with glutamate via glutamine synthetase
to form glutamine (glutamate + ammonia + ATP → glutamine + ADP).145 Glutamine
is ultimately released from muscle, with the majority of glutamine being used bythe gut and the immune system as a primary energy source. 
Together, alanine and glutamine represent 60 to 80% of the amino acids released
from skeletal muscle while they account for only 18% of the amino acids in muscleprotein. During exercise, glutamine synthesis and glutamine levels in muscle declinedue to inhibition of glutamine synthetase.
The net effect of oxidation of amino acids to glucose in the liver is to make
nearly two-thirds of the total energy available from the oxidation of amino acidsavailable to peripheral tissues, without necessitating that peripheral tissues synthe-size the complex array of enzymes needed to support direct amino acid oxidation. 
As a balanced mixture of amino acids is oxidized in the liver, nearly all carbon
from glucogenic amino acids ﬂows into the mitochondrial aspartate pool and isactively transported out of the mitochondria via the aspartate-glutamate antiportlinked to proton entry. In the cytoplasm the aspartate is converted to fumarateutilizing urea cycle enzymes; the fumarate ﬂows via oxaloacetate to phosphoe-nolpyruvate and on to glucose. 
Thus carbon ﬂow through the urea cycle is normally interlinked with gluconeo-
genic carbon ﬂow because these metabolic pathways share a common step. Livermitochondria experience a severe nonvolatile acid load during amino acid oxidation.7950_C004.fm  Page 100  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 101
It is suggested that this acid load is alleviated mainly by the respiratory chain proton
pump in a form of uncoupled respiration. 
I. G LUCOGENIC  AND KETOGENIC  AMINO ACIDS
All tissues have some capability for synthesis of the non-essential amino acids,amino acid remodeling, and conversion of non-amino acid carbon skeletons intoamino acids and other derivatives that contain nitrogen. However, the liver is themajor site of nitrogen metabolism in the body. In times of dietary surplus, thepotentially toxic nitrogen of amino acids is eliminated via transaminations, deami-nation, and urea formation; the carbon skeletons are generally conserved as carbo-hydrate, via gluconeogenesis, or as fatty acid via fatty acid synthesis pathways. 
In this respect, amino acids fall into three categories: glucogenic, ketogenic, or
glucogenic and ketogenic. Glucogenic amino acids are those that give rise to a netproduction of pyruvate or TCA cycle intermediates, such as a-ketoglutarate oroxaloacetate, all of which are precursors to glucose via gluconeogenesis. All aminoacids except lysine and leucine are at least partly glucogenic. Lysine and leucineare the only amino acids that are solely ketogenic, giving rise only to acetylCoAor acetoacetylCoA, neither of which can bring about net glucose production. SeeFigure 4.1 to see the entry of amino acids into the pathway of gluconeogenesis. 
FIGURE 4.1 Abbreviations: PEP, phosphoenolpyruvate; FDP, fructose-1, 6-phosphate; F-6-P,
fructose 6-phosphate; G-6-P, glucose 6-phosphate.7950_C004.fm  Page 101  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

102 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
A small group of amino acids comprising isoleucine, phenylalanine, threonine,
tryptophan, and tyrosine give rise to both glucose and fatty acid precursors and are
thus characterized as being glucogenic and ketogenic. Finally, it should be recog-nized that amino acids have a third possible fate. During times of stress and starvationthere is an increase in the use of the reduced carbon skeleton, through the transfor-mation to acetylCoA either directly or indirectly via the TCA cycle, for energyproduction, with the result that it is oxidized to CO
2 and H2O. 
1. Glucogenic Amino Acids
For a list of the glucogenic amino acids that are metabolized to alpha-ketoglutarate,
pyruvate, oxaloacetate, fumarate, or succinyl CoA, see Table 4.5.
2. Ketogenic Amino Acids
The ketogenic amino acids are metabolized to acetylCoA or acetoacetate. Leucine
and Lysine are the only amino acids that are solely ketogenic giving rise only toacetylCoA or acetoacetylCoA, neither of which can bring about net glucose pro-duction. For lists of the ketogenic amino acids and the ﬁve amino acids that are bothglucogenic and ketogenic, see Table 4.5. 
3. Alanine and Glutamine
Intense exercise has dramatic effects on amino acid metabolism. After an exhausting
load a signiﬁcant rise and concurrent drop of serum isoleucine, threonine, ornithine,
TABLE 4.5Glucogenic and Ketogenic Amino Acids
Glucogenic Ketogenic Both
Alanine
ArginineAsparagineAspartateCysteineGlutamateGlutamineGlycineHistidine HydroxyprolineIsoleucineMethioninePhenylalanineProlineSerineThreonineTryptophanTyrosineValineLeucineLysineIsoleucinePhenylalanineThreonineTryptophanTyrosine7950_C004.fm  Page 102  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 103
leucine, serine, glycine, asparagine and glutamine occurs with a rise in serum
alanine.146 The rise of alanine suggests the existence of a glucose-alanine cycle. The
drop of branched amino acids is probably due to their enhanced entry into muscles.The drop of glutamine reﬂects increased use by the gut and immune system, eventhough the release of glutamine by muscle cells increases secondary to proteolysis. 
Similarly, under stress, glucose consumption increases and the efﬂux of lactate,
alanine, glutamine, and total amino acid nitrogen (i.e., net muscle protein catabolism)increases. 
In a series of studies, Brown et al. have shown that catabolic hormones alone
fail to reproduce the stress-induced efﬂux of amino acids.
147 In this study the net
balance of amino acids was determined in ﬁve healthy volunteers prior to andfollowing a 2-hour infusion of the catabolic hormones epinephrine, cortisol, andglucagon into the femoral artery. This hormonal simulation of stress in normalvolunteers increased glutamine efﬂux from the leg to an extent similar to that of
burn patients. 
Alanine efﬂux, however, was not affected by the hormonal infusion. Because
alanine efﬂux constituted a major proportion of the total peripheral amino acid
catabolism in the burn patients, there was signiﬁcantly less total amino acidnitrogen loss from the healthy volunteers receiving the stress hormones. Thuscatabolic hormones alone fail to reproduce the stress-induced pattern and quan-tity of amino acid efﬂux from human skeletal muscle. This discrepancy is largelydue to an unresponsiveness of alanine to hormonally induced muscle proteincatabolism. 
In states of stress, alanine becomes increasingly important to sustain increases
in gluconeogenesis. Alanine, via deamination to pyruvate, is a principal precursor forhepatic gluconeogenesis and is normally produced secondary to insulin resistance —important since insulin is known to inhibit muscle protein breakdown especially inseverely stressed states. 
In another study, Brown et al. showed that alanine efﬂux may depend on pyruvate
availability during stress and the rate of glycolysis within peripheral tissues may bea major factor in regulating the quantity of alanine efﬂux.
148 
Several studies have hypothesized that alanine decreases plasma ketone body
levels by increasing availability of oxaloacetate, thus allowing acetyl groups to enterthe citric acid cycle and releasing coenzyme A (CoA). The signiﬁcant elevation inplasma free carnitine concentration found after alanine ingestion is consistent withthe hypothesis that alanine increases the oxidation of acetylCoA by providing oxalo-acetate for the citric acid cycle.
149
Glutamine also becomes increasingly important during stress due to both its role
as a major precursor for ammoniagenesis by the kidney and its avid consumptionby visceral organs, ﬁbroblasts, and lymphoid tissue.
150 
The authors of this study suggest that “any attempt to minimize muscle protein
catabolism should be accompanied by amino acid supplementation, especially ofglutamine and alanine.” Thus the provision of exogenous alanine may decreaseinsulin resistance, and the provision of exogenous alanine and glutamine maydecrease the need to obtain these amino acids from endogenous protein and thereforedecrease muscle protein breakdown. 7950_C004.fm  Page 103  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

104 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
4. Interorgan Exchange of Amino Acids
Many of the alterations in the hormonal ensemble during exercise favor (or even
constitute the main cause of) protein and amino acid mobilization. As a result ofexercise, there is an interorgan exchange of amino acids, particularly the BCAAs,alanine, and glutamine. The main features of this interorgan exchange include: 
• The movement of the branched-chain amino acids (leucine, valine, and
isoleucine) from the splanchnic bed (liver and gut) to skeletal muscles. 
• The movement of alanine from muscle to the liver • The movement of glutamine from muscle to the gut. 
The interorgan exchange of these amino acids has several functions including:
• Maintaining amino acid precursors for protein synthesis• Assisting in the elimination of nitrogen wastes• Providing substrates for gluconeogenesis• Providing glutamine for gut and immune system function• Maintaining the purine nucleotide cycle.
Early studies by Felig et al. provided evidence about amino acid movement
among tissues.
151 By examining arterial-venous differences in substrate concentra-
tions across tissues, they observed that skeletal muscle had a net uptake of BCAAs
with a subsequent release of alanine greater than the amount present in muscleprotein. The released alanine was removed by the splanchnic bed. On the basis ofthese observations, the study’s authors proposed the existence of a glucose-alaninecycle for maintenance of blood glucose and the shuttling of nitrogen and gluconeo-genic substrate from muscle to liver. 
Another study by Ahlborg et al. using six untrained adult males examined the
arterial-venous differences across the splanchnic bed and across the leg during4 hours of cycling at 30% of V0
2max.152 They observed decreases in plasma glucose
and insulin, and increases in glucagon and FFAs. Plasma glucose declined from apre-exercise level of 90 mg/dl but stabilized at 60 mg/dl as release of glucose bythe liver continued throughout the exercise period. Glucose remained an importantfuel throughout exercise, but there was a signiﬁcant increase in use of FFAs. 
There was also a signiﬁcant increase in amino acid ﬂux, including a fourfold
increase in the release of branched-chain amino acids from the splanchnic area anda corresponding increase in the uptake by exercising muscles. In return, musclesreleased alanine, which was removed by the liver for gluconeogenesis. This studydemonstrated a change in amino acid ﬂux during exercise with movement ofbranched-chain amino acids from visceral tissues to skeletal muscles and the returnof alanine as a precursor for hepatic synthesis of glucose.
Lemon and Mullin further established the relationship of amino acid metabolism
to glucose homeostasis.
153 In this study they demonstrated a dramatic increase in
sweat urea nitrogen in men previously depleted of glycogen stores and exercisedfor 1 hour at 61% V0
2 max, but no change in urinary urea nitrogen. The authors7950_C004.fm  Page 104  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 105
found that amino acid catabolism provided 10.4% of total energy for the exercise
in carbohydrate-depleted individuals, while in the carbohydrate-loaded group proteinprovided 4.4% of the energy needs. These results suggest that production of nitrogenwastes during exercise is related to carbohydrate status and that sweating may bean important mechanism for elimination of nitrogen wastes. Other studies alsosupport the relationship of increased amino acid degradation with maintenance ofhepatic glucose production.
154,155 
Exercise and periods of food restriction or fasting share many similarities in
amino acid metabolism. In both there is a net release of amino acids from proteindue to suppression of protein synthesis and an increase in protein breakdown. Thischange in protein turnover results in an increase in tissue levels of free amino acidsand net release of amino acids from most tissues. Tissues with high rates of proteinturnover are most affected, with the liver and gastrointestinal tract incurring thelargest losses during short-term fasts. Skeletal muscle, which has lower rates of
protein turnover, responds somewhat less dramatically, but because of its total mass,
muscle is the predominant source of free amino acids during prolonged periods offood restriction.
Amino acids have been shown to play important roles in energy homeostasis
during periods of high energy need or low energy intake. While the qualitative roleis becoming clear, the quantitative level of this role remains uncertain. Most of thestudies examining this role have been designed using leucine and alanine as meta-bolic tracers. These studies establish changes in protein turnover, increases in aminoacid ﬂux, and increase in leucine oxidation. However, questions remain about thepotential to generalize from these ﬁndings to other amino acids or to dietary proteinrequirements. Endurance exercise causes a reduction in muscle protein synthesisand net protein breakdown, but is there a real loss of amino acids; are there increasesin urea production during exercise; are the effects unique to leucine or do they relateto other amino acids? These questions remain to be fully answered.
Using multiple isotope tracers, Wolfe et al.
156 examined amino acid metabolism
during aerobic exercise. They found inhibition of protein synthesis, increased leucineoxidation, and increased ﬂux of alanine. These ﬁndings are consistent with mostearlier reports. However, using direct isotopic measures, they failed to ﬁnd anyincrease in urea synthesis. Further, using lysine, a second indispensable amino acid,they demonstrated that the inhibition of protein synthesis was less than half thatestimated by leucine (17 vs. 48%) and that there was no increase in lysine oxidation.
J. P ROTEIN  METABOLISM  AND AMMONIA
1. Metabolism of Ammonia
Ammonia is formed in a number of reactions in the body during the degradation of
amines, purines, and pyrimidines,157–159 and the metabolism of amino acids. It seems,
however, that the quantitatively important source of ammonia during exercise is themetabolism of amino acids.
160 
Skeletal muscle produces a large quantity of ammonia during prolonged submax-
imal (i.e., endurance) exercise, the source of which is the subject of some controversy.7950_C004.fm  Page 105  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

106 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
Ammonia p roduction in skeletal muscle involves the purine nucleotide cycle and the
amino acids glutamate, glutamine, and alanine and probably also includes the
branched chain amino acids as well as aspartate.161 
Several authors have proposed that the degradation of amino acids, speciﬁcally,
the branched-chain amino acids leucine, valine, and isoleucine, may be a source ofammonia during this type of activity. The ammonia response can be suppressed byincreasing the carbohydrate availability and this may be mediated by decreasing theoxidation of the branched chain amino acids.
162 
MacLean et al. performed a study in which the purpose was to examine the
effects of oral BCAA supplementation on amino acid and ammonia metabolism inexercising humans.
163 Five men exercised the knee extensors of one leg for 60 minutes
with and without (control) an oral supplement of BCAA. The subjects consumed77 mg/kg of the supplement administered in two equal doses of 38.5 kg/mg at 45and 20 minutes before the onset of exercise. According to the authors of the study,the 500-mg capsules of the commercially available BCAA supplement were reportedto contain only the three BCAAs in the following proportions: 220, 150, and 130
mg L-leucine, L-valine, and L-isoleucine, respectively. This was conﬁrmed by dilu-
tion of the capsules in water and with analysis by high-performance liquid chroma-tography.
The researchers concluded that their study clearly shows that BCAA supple-
mentation results in signiﬁcantly greater muscle ammonia production duringexercise. Also, BCAA supplementation imposes a substantial ammonia load onmuscle, as indicated by the consistently larger total alanine and glutamine releasesobserved during exercise. The elevated BCAA levels also suppress the degree ofnet protein degradation that normally occurs during exercise of this magnitudeand duration. 
Also of importance in this was the ﬁnding that the degree of contractile protein
degradation was not increased during exercise for either trial. The authors noted thatprevious studies have reported that muscle protein catabolism occurs primarily innoncontractile protein while contractile protein catabolism is spared or even decreased.MacLean et al. found no signiﬁcant elev ations in the release of 3-meth ylhistidine (a
marker of contractile protein catabolism — 3-methylhistidine is a muscle-speciﬁcamino acid that is produced and lost in the urine only when muscle protein is brokendown) from muscle for either trial.
Since it is produced in degradation reactions, ammonia is usually considered an
end product of metabolism that must be converted to urea, a non-toxic compound,for excretion. In most mammals, including man, urea is produced in the liver by acyclical series of reactions known as the urea cycle. The urea cycle, because of theintricacy of amino acid metabolism, and in particular the contribution of differenttissues, is more complex than is generally thought. 
In addition to its role in the urea cycle, ammonia can play a number of other
roles in metabolism including: 
• Acting as a substrate for the glutamate dehydrogenase reaction in the
formation of non-essential amino acids; as a substrate for glutamine syn-thetase in the formation of glutamine in muscle 7950_C004.fm  Page 106  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 107
• Acting as an important regulator of the rate of glycolysis in muscle, brain,
and possibly other tissues 
• The regulation of acid/base balance by the kidney.
Ammonia, generated from glutamine within the tubule cells, acts as a third renal
system to help the body cope with large acid loads. Once formed, ammonia diffuses
into the tubule to combine with the protons as follows:
NH3 + H+ NH4 +
Through the activity of the glutaminase enzyme, the hydrolysis of glutamine to
glutamate in the distal tubules of the kidney is the primary pathway for renalammonia production, although additional ammonia can also be produced by thefurther conversion of glutamate to a-ketoglutarate through the activity of the enzymeglutamate dehydrogenase. Furthermore, oxidation of glutamine carbons by the kid-ney gives rise to bicarbonate (HCO3 −) ion production for release into the blood
stream to further buffer hydrogen ion production. These processes allow the kidneysto effectively excrete excess protons and protect the body from acidosis. 
Consequently, during acidosis, major changes in renal glutamine metabolism
occur to support ammoniagenesis. Renal uptake of glutamine has been shown to beaccelerated by activation of the Na +-dependent membrane transport system. The
rate of glutamine hydrolysis and the maximal activity of the glutaminase enzymewere also increased, such that renal glutamine consumption was increased 6- to10-fold, making the kidney the major organ of glutamine utilization during acidosis.
The glutamine is produced in muscle (although brain and liver may contribute
small amounts) and transported to the kidney, where the two nitrogen atoms are releasedas ammonia. Since the glutamine release by muscle may be at the expense of alanine,
the excretion of the nitrogen from amino acid metabolism in muscle is effectively
switched from urea, which is produced from the metabolism of alanine in the liver,
to ammonia, which is produced from glutamine metabolism in the kidney. In thisway, the end product of nitrogen metabolism is put to good use by the body inachieving control of acidosis.
2. Urea Formation by the Liver
The ammonia released during deamination is removed from the blood almost entirely
by conversion into urea; 2 molecules of ammonia and 1 molecule of carbon dioxidecombine in accordance with the following net reaction:
2NH
3 + CO2 → H2N-CO-NH2 + H2O 
Practically all urea formed in the human body is synthesized in the liver. In
pathological states such as serious liver dysfunction, ammonia can accumulate inthe blood and become toxic. For example, high levels of ammonia can disrupt thefunctioning of the central nervous system, sometimes leading to a state called hepaticcoma. 7950_C004.fm  Page 107  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

108 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
The stages in the formation of urea involve ornithine, citrulline, and arginine.
Ornithine plus CO2 and NH3 forms citrulline, which combines with another molecule
of NH3 to form arginine. Arginine plus water produces urea and reforms ornithine
through the action of arinase. Once formed, urea diffuses from the liver cells into
the body ﬂuids and is excreted by the kidneys.
3. High Levels of Protein Intake and Ammonia
With increasing protein intake there is an increased oxidation of amino acids and
subsequently an increased production of ammonia. Animals can adapt to a high-protein diet by upregulating urea synthesis and excretion, and also by upregulatingamino acid metabolizing enzymes such as alanine and aspartate aminotransferases,glutamate dehydrogenase, and argininosuccinate synthetase,
164 and can increase
mitochondrial glutamine hydrolysis in hepatocytes.165 As well, the metabolism of
increased dietary protein can be modulated at the gastrointestinal level, for example,with decreased gastric emptying to decrease the rate of absorption, thus allowingthe liver to better deal with the amino acid load.
166–168 
Even with all of these mechanisms in play it is possible that high dietary protein
can lead to toxic effects and hyperammonemia, perhaps secondary to the liver’s
limited capacity to form urea. Unfortunately there is very little documentation onthe effects of the chronic intake of large amounts of dietary protein on normal people.One phenomenon, known as “rabbit starvation,” seems to occur in diets that are veryhigh in protein and very low in fat and carbohydrates, such as the consumption ofvery lean rabbit meat.
169 I believe the basis behind the toxicity associated with eating
just lean meat is hyperammonemia, which occurs secondary to the large amount of
protein needed in an attempt to derive all of one’s energy from protein alone. 
This is accentuated by the fact that the amount of useable energy derived from
protein is less than that derived from carbs and fats. Using amino acids as a primaryenergy source is less efﬁcient than using either carbs or fats. That is because thedeamination and formation of urea, as well as the oxidation of amino acids andconversion into glucose, require energy and this decreases the net amount of energyobtainable from amino acids. As such, more protein needs to be metabolized to meetthe energy requirements of the body and this potentially leads to even higher levelsof systemic ammonia. 
It has been shown that, as the protein content of meals
 is increased, the rate of
urea synthesis maxes out and beyond this point ammonia levels increase. In onestudy, the maximum rate corresponded
 to a protein intake of just over 3 grams per
kg of bodyweight or approximately 40% of dietary energy.170 However, anecdotally,
higher levels than this have not caused any adverse effects — for example, the Inuit’sancestral diet consisted of fat and protein with protein levels approximating 50% ofthe energy intake. It is possible that with time an upregulation of hepatic enzymeswould make it possible to subsist without adverse effects on a diet in which proteinmakes up more than 50% of total energy intake. 
It has been demonstrated that when protein intake is either decreased or increased
urinary nitrogen output is adjusted to match protein intake.
171 As well, in one study,
measurements were made at 6-hour intervals, of urinary nitrogen output and of the7950_C004.fm  Page 108  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 109
activity of some hepatic enzymes in the rat during adaptation from one level of
dietary protein to another. The enzymes measured were arginase, argininosuccinatelyase, argininosuccinate synthetase, glutamate dehydrogenase, and alanine andaspartate aminotransferases.
172 
When the dietary protein content was reduced from 135 to 45 g casein/kg, the
urinary N output and the activities of the hepatic enzymes reached their new steady-state levels in 30 hours. The reverse adaptation, from 45 to 135 g casein/kg, wasalso complete in 30 hours. The rate of change of enzyme activity and the ﬁnalactivity as percentage of initial activity were very similar for all six enzymes,suggesting a common control mechanism. There was no simple relationship betweenthe activity of the urea cycle enzymes and the amount of N excreted. When an equalamount of gelatin was substituted for casein, the N output was doubled but there wasno change in the activity of the liver enzymes. The authors concluded that the resultssuggest that the activity of the urea cycle enzymes depends in part on the amount
of N available for excretion after the demands for synthesis have been met. The
enzymes, however, appear to be present in excess so that an increased N load wasnot necessarily accompanied by an increase in enzyme activity.
K. L OW-CARBOHYDRATE , HIGH-PROTEIN  DIETS AND ENERGY  METABOLISM
The macronutrient mix of low-carbohydrate diets takes the body along energymetabolic pathways that differ from the more traditional higher carbohydrate diets.Following a low-carb diet shifts the body energy metabolism to the use of more fatand protein, both as immediate substrates and for the formation of ketones (in thecase of both fats and amino acids) and glucose (in the case of amino acids). Thisshift changes the dynamics of energy metabolism to the extent where dietary car-bohydrates no longer make up an important energy substrate. Instead, fat oxidationis increased, glycogen spared, and amino acids are used to provide carbon skeletonsfor gluconeogenesis, which in turn is used to supply baseline glucose and glycogenlevels, which are used for glycolysis as needed. 
Two pivotal enzymes in energy metabolism are pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH),
which decarboxylates pyruvate to form the two carbon unit acetyl CoA, and pyruvatecarboxylase (PC) that carboxylates pyruvate to form oxaloacetate. Both enzymesare intimately involved in carbohydrate oxidation and help to control the degree ofinvolvement of fatty acids and amino acids in energy metabolism. With low dietarycarbs PDH is downregulated so that less pyruvate is converted to acetyl CoA, andsubsequently the formation of acetyl CoA from fatty acid oxidation increases pro-portionally. At the same time, because glucose cannot be formed from fat (exceptfor the case of odd chain fatty acids where the remaining 3 carbon units can enterthe TCA cycle and be used for gluconeogenesis) more amino acid carbon skeletonsare involved in the formation of glucose, pyruvate, and TCA cycle intermediates. 
1. Metabolic Advantage of a High Protein, Low-carbohydrate Diet
The metabolic advantage in low-carbohydrate diets — greater weight loss than
isocaloric diets of different composition. 7950_C004.fm  Page 109  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

110 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
a. Dietary Calories from Macronutrients
It is widely held that a calorie is a calorie and by this it is usually meant that two
isocaloric diets lead to the same weight loss. A calorie is a measure of heat energyand when food is being referenced, it represents the total amount of energy stored infood. Used in this way, all calories are equal, whether from fat, protein, or carbohy-drates. However, the idea that a dietary calorie is a calorie as far as how it inﬂuencesuseable and storable energy, body weight, and composition under all conditions issimplistic at best. 
Many factors inﬂuence how much energy is actually derived from dietary macro-
nutrient intake. Calories can be “wasted” in many ways. Decreased absorption fromthe GI tract and increased excretion are two obvious ways. An increase in thermo-genesis and energy expenditure will also waste calories. In the case of thermogenesis(thermic effect of feeding), or the heat generated in processing food, the thermiceffect of nutrients is approximately 2–3% for lipids, 6–8% for carbohydrates, and25–30% for proteins.
173 This in itself is almost enough to explain the metabolic
advantage of low-carb, high-protein diets. But there’s more involved. For exampleit has been shown that increasing dietary protein increases fat oxidation. As well,the calorie cost in the use of the various macronutrients for energy also differs, withprotein being the least efﬁcient. 
Through the interaction of both cytoplasmic and mitochondrial pathways it is
possible to store both carbohydrates and protein as body fat. In the case of protein,it involves both the glucogenic and ketogenic amino acids. The ketogenic inﬂuenceon body fat is obvious, since ketones are readily metabolized to two carbon unitsand can be directly used for lipogenesis. The glucogenic amino acids can enter theTCA cycle as intermediates and either through a short or long pathway end up as2 carbon units that can be exported to the cytoplasm for lipogenesis. 
Low-carbohydrate and higher-protein diets do more than increase weight loss.
It’s also been shown that low-carbohydrate, high-protein diets favorably affect
 body
mass and composition174 and that these changes are independent of energy intake.175
But this is nothing new. Prior research also found that a low-carbohydrate diet
results in a signiﬁcant fat loss and an increased retention of muscle mass, eitheralone or in comparison with a high-carbohydrate diet. 
For example, in 1971 a group of researchers looked at the effects of three diets
that had the same calorie and protein levels, but varying fat and carbohydratecontent.
176 They found that, as the carbohydrates in the diets went down, there was
an increased weight and fat loss. In other words, the men who were on the lower-carbohydrate diets lost the most weight and body fat. 
In 1998, another study, this time involving obese teenagers, came up with similar
results.
177 After 8 weeks on a low-carbohydrate diet, the teens not only lost signiﬁcant
amounts of weight and body fat, but even managed to increase their lean body mass. 
In the study, a 6-week carbohydrate-restricted diet resulted in a favorable
response in body composition (decreased fat mass and increased lean body mass)in normal-weight men. The results of this study indicate that a low-carbohydratediet mobilizes and burns up body fat more than a high-carbohydrate diet, while atthe same time preserving muscle mass.7950_C004.fm  Page 110  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 111
Insulin, by varying the amount of fat and carbohydrate storage, can also make
the body more efﬁcient in the use of dietary calories. For example, decreased insulin
levels, increased insulin sensitivity and even lack of an insulin receptor in fat tissueleads to increases in energy expenditure and helps to protect against obesity evenin obesiogenic environments.
178
Calories from different macronutrient mixes can affect appetite, satiety, compli-
ance, short- and long-term compensatory responses, and changes in the oxidationof other substrates and thus make a difference as far as weight loss and bodycomposition are concerned. For example, one study found that fat mass status andthe macronutrient composition of an acute dietary intake inﬂuence substrate oxida-tion rates.
179 This study found that the intake of a high-protein, lower-carbohydrate
single meal improved postprandial lipid oxidation in obese women and produced anincreased thermic response. These responses were due to elevated insulin levels thatoccurs with higher-carbohydrate meals as well as the increased energy needs asso-
ciated with the higher-protein meal. 
The enhanced weight loss on protein-enriched diets as compared with balanced
diets has been often assigned to a greater food-derived thermogenesis, an effect
generally attributed to the metabolic costs of peptide-bond synthesis and breakdown,urogenesis, and gluconeogenesis.
180 
2. Low-Carbohydrate Cont roversy
There has been much controversy about both the effectiveness and safety of lower-carbohydrate diets. New studies from leading institutions including Duke and Har-vard Universities have shown that low-carbohydrate diets are safe, healthy, lead tomore permanent fat and weight loss, and have shown improvements in the dieters’blood lipid and cholesterol levels.
Several studies have shown that low-carbohydrate diets are more effective for
weight and fat loss than the high-carbohydrate diets. The results of a study publishedin 2002 showed that the long-term use of a low-carbohydrate diet resulted inincreased weight and fat loss, and a dramatic improvement in the lipid proﬁle(decreased cholesterol, triglycerides and LDL, and increased HDL levels).
181 
Two studies published in 2003 in the New England Journal of Medicine  found
that people on the high-protein, high-fat, low-carbohydrate diet lost twice as muchweight over 6 months as those on the standard low-fat diet recommended by mostmajor health organizations.
182,183 In both studies, the low-carbohydrate dieters gen-
erally had better levels of “good” cholesterol and triglycerides, or fats in the blood.There was no difference in “bad” cholesterol or blood pressure.
The 132 men and women in the study conducted by the Veterans Affairs
Department
182 started out weighing an average of 286 pounds. After 6 months, those
on the low-carbohydrate diet had lost an average of 12.8 pounds (5.7 kg); those onthe low-fat diet 4.2 pounds (1.8 kg).
The other study involved 63 participants who weighed an average of 217 pounds
(98.4 kg) at the start. After 6 months, the low-carbohydrate group lost 15.4 pounds(7 kg), the group on the standard diet 7 pounds (3.2 kg). In a follow-up to this study,7950_C004.fm  Page 111  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

112 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
the authors found that after 1 year there were several favorable metabolic responses
to the low-carbohydrate diet.184
Another scientiﬁc study published in the same year compared the effects of a
low-carbohydrate diet with a low-fat control diet on weight loss and commonlystudied cardiovascular risk factors.
185 In this study, healthy obese women on the low-
carbohydrate diet lost 8.5 kg, more than twice the amount of weight lost by womenon the control diet, over a 6-month period. Loss of fat mass was also signiﬁcantlygreater in the low-carbohydrate group. 
In a follow-up study the authors concluded that short-term weight loss is greater
in obese women on a low-carbohydrate diet than in those on a low-fat diet evenwhen reported food intake is similar.
186 The authors did not ﬁnd an explanation for
these results since there were no measurable changes between the dieters. 
Another study published in 2004 found that not only was weight loss greater
but serum triglyceride levels decreased more and high-density lipoprotein cholesterollevel increased more with the low-carbohydrate diet than with the low-fat diet.
187
In the latest study, researchers from the Harvard School of Public Health, after
analyzing data collected over 20 years from more than 82,000 women participatingin the Nurses’ Health Study, concluded that low-carbohydrate diets do not seem belinked to a higher risk of heart disease in women.
188
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Both endurance and power athletes need more protein than the RDAs to maximize bodycomposition and performance. How much more is still under debate, as is the uppertolerable level. From the available research, and from my clinical and personal experi-ence, athletes will beneﬁt by taking in a minimum of twice the present RDA for protein,and for those wishing to gain signiﬁcant muscle mass, up to four times the RDAs. 
The contribution that protein makes to energy metabolism depends on several
variables, including the state of the organism, the energy and macronutrient contentof the diet, and level of physical activity. For those following a low-carbohydratediet or on an energy-restricted diet, it is important to keep dietary protein levelsrelatively high as this will increase weight loss as well as help minimize the loss ofmuscle mass and increase the loss of body fat. 
In my view, the contribution protein makes to energy metabolism, including
both the complete oxidation of the carbon skeletons, directly or indirectly by thevarious transformations (gluconeogenesis and glycolytic-TCA cycle interactions) isunderappreciated.
Obviously, more research needs to be done in humans in several areas including
determining:
• The amount of protein carbon that actually contributes to energy metab-
olism both at rest and during exercise
• The adaptive responses to acute and chronic increased dietary protein
intake
• The response to protein intake when taken alone and with other macro
and micronutrients7950_C004.fm  Page 112  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 113
• The response to dose and timing of protein intake during the day, and in
and around training
• Tolerable upper intake levels both for proteins as a whole and for indi-
vidual amino acids 
• If and how the high intake of protein from whole foods presents any risks,
including investigating “rabbit starvation” where the primary food eaten
is lean meat
• If and how the use of protein (both high- and low-quality) and amino acid
supplements presents any risks, including the effects of fast (for exampleindividual amino acids, hydrolysates, and whey protein) and slow proteins(for example casein) on protein dynamics (oxidation, gluconeogenesis,ammonia excretion, etc.) in the body. 
• The effects of exercise on substrate utilization and the roles of various
energy depots (liver glycogen, muscle glycogen, adipose triacylglycerol,
intramuscular triacylglycerol) in exercise and recovery.
• The effects of high-protein diets, with or without restrictions on the other
two macronutrients, on health, body composition, and athletic perfor-
mance. 
• Alternating a low-carb, high-protein phase, with a higher-carb phase
(phase shift diet) will result in increased performance for both strengthand endurance athletes secondary to an improvement in protein and energymetabolism and also to the increased availability of both intramyocellularlipids and glycogen
• The effects of speciﬁc amino acids on energy metabolism, for example,
their anaplerotic usefulness and subsequently their effects on both aerobicand anaerobic energy systems, including their contribution to and theireffects on carbohydrate and fat metabolism.
• The mechanisms by which acute and chronic physical activity alter sub-
strate utilization and subsequently affect athletic performance and bodycomposition.
REFERENCES
1. Guyton, A.C. and Hall, J.E., Textbook of Medical Physiology , 9th ed., W.B. Saunders
Co., Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1996, 877.
2. Lieb, C., The effect on human beings of a twelve month exclusive meat diet, JAMA ,
93, 20–22, 1929. 
3. Pitkanen, H.T., Nykanen, T., Knuutinen, J., Lahti, K., Keinanen, O., Alen, M., Komi,
P.V ., and Mero, A.A., Free amino acid pool and muscle protein balance after resistance
exercise, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc ., 35(5), 784–792, 2003.
4. Tomé, D. and Bos, C., Dietary protein and nitrogen utilization, J. Nutr. , 130,
1868S–1873S, 2000.
5. Pacy, P.J., Price, G.M., Halliday, D., Quevedo, M.R., and Millward, D.J., Nitrogen
homeostasis in man: The diurnal responses of protein synthesis and degradation andamino acid oxidation to diets with increasing protein intakes. Clin. Sci.  (Lond.),
86,103–116, 1994.7950_C004.fm  Page 113  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

114 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
6. Luiking, Y .C., Deutz, N.E., Jakel, M., and Soeters, P.B., Casein and soy protein meals
differentially affect whole-body and splanchnic protein metabolism in healthy
humans, J. Nutr ., 135(5),1080–1087, 2005.
7. Elliot, T.A., Cree, M.G, Sanford, A.P., Wolfe, R.R., and Tipton, K.D., Milk ingestion
stimulates net muscle protein synthesis following resistance exercise, Med. Sci. Sports
Exerc ., 38(4), 667–674, 2006.
8. Phillips, S.M., Hartman, J.W., and Wilkinson, S.B., Dietary protein to support anabolism
with resistance exercise in young men, J. Am. Coll. Nutr ., 24(2), 134S–139S, 2005. 
9. Elliot, T.A., Cree, M.G., Sanford, A.P., Wolfe, R.R., and Tipton, K.D, Milk ingestion
stimulates net muscle protein synthesis following resistance exercise. Med. Sci Sports
Exerc ., 38(4), 667–674, 2006.
10. Fouillet, H., Gaudichon, C., Mariotti, F., Bos, C., Huneau ,J.F., and Tome, D., Energy
nutrients modulate the splanchnic sequestration of dietary nitrogen in humans: Acompartmental analysis, Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab ., 281(2), E248–E260,
2001.
11. Dangin, M., Boirie, Y ., Garcia-Rodenas, C., Gachon, P., Fauquant, J., Callier, P.,
Ballevre, O., and Beaufrere, B., The digestion rate of protein is an independentregulating factor of postprandial protein retention, Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab .,
280, E340–E348, 2001.
12. Dangin, M., Boirie, Y ., Guillet, C., and Beaufrere, B., Inﬂuence of the protein diges-
tion rate on protein turnover in young and elderly subjects, J. Nutr ., 132(10),
3228S–3233S, 2002.
13. Boirie, Y ., Dangin, M., Gachon, P., Vasson, M.P., Maubois, J.L., and Beaufrere, B.,
Slow and fast dietary proteins differently modulate postprandial protein accretion,Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA , 94, 14930–14935, 1997. 
14. Todd, K.S., Butterﬁeld, G.E., and Calloway, D.H., Nitrogen balance in men with adequate
and deﬁcient energy intake at three levels of work, J. Nutr ., 114, 2107–2118, 1984. 
15. Bowtell, J.L., Leese, G.P., Smith, K., Watt, P.W. Nevill, A., Rooyackers, O., Wagen-
makers, A.J.M., and Rennie, M.J., Modulation of whole body protein metabolism,during and after exercise, by variation of dietary protein, J. Appl. Physiol ., 85, 1744–
1752, 1998.
16. Friedman, J.E. and Lemon, P.W., Effect of chronic endurance exercise on retention
of dietary protein, Int. J .Sports Med ., 10, 118–123, 1989.
17. Pannemans, D.L., Halliday ,D., Westerterp, K.R., and Kester, A.D., Effect of variable
protein intake on Whole body protein turnover in young men and women, Am. J.
Clin. Nutr ., 61, 69–74, 1995.
18. Gaine, P.C., Pikosky, M.A., Martin, W.F., Bolster, D.R., Maresh ,C.M., and Rodriguez,
N.R., Level of dietary protein impacts whole body protein turnover in trained malesat rest, Metabolism , 55(4), 501–507, 2006.
19. Mahe, S., Roos, N., Benamouzig, R., Davin, L., Luengo, C., Gagnon, L., Gausserges,
N., Rautureau, J., and Tome, D., Gastrojejunal kinetics and the digestion of [15N]ß-lactoglobulin and casein in humans: The inﬂuence of the nature and quantity of theprotein, Am. J. Clin. Nutr ., 63, 546–552, 1996. 
20. Fouillet, H., Bos, C., Gaudichon, C., and Tome, D., Approaches to quantifying protein
metabolism in response to nutrient ingestion, J. Nutr ., 132, 3208S–3218S, 2002.
21. Dangin, M., Boirie, Y ., Guillet, C., and Beaufrere, B., Inﬂuence of protein digestion
rate on protein turnover in young and elderly subjects, J. Nutr. , 132, 3228S–3233S,
2002.
22. Jungas, R.L., Halperin, M.L., and Brosnan, J.T., Qualitative analysis of amino acid
oxidation and related gluconeogenesis in humans, Physiol. Rev. , 72, 419–448, 1992. 7950_C004.fm  Page 114  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 115
23. National Research Council, Recommended Dietary Allowances , 10th ed., National
Academy of Sciences, Washington, DC, 1989.
24. Zello, G.A., Related Dietary Reference Intakes for the macronutrients and energy:
Considerations for physical activity, Appl. Physiol. Nutr. Metab. , 31(1), 74–79, 2006. 
25. Barr, S.I., Applications of Dietary Reference Intakes in dietary assessment and plan-
ning, Appl. Physiol. Nutr. Metab. , 31(1), 66–73, 2006.
26. Barr, S.I., Introduction to dietary reference intakes, Appl. Physiol. Nutr. Metab. , 31(1),
61–65, 2006.
27. Institute of Medicine, National Academy of Sciences, Dietary Reference Intakes for
Energy, Carbohydrate, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids
(Macronutrients) , National Academy Press, Washington, DC, 2002.
28. Whiting, S.J., Symposium overview. Dietary Reference Intakes: Considerations for
physical activity, Appl. Physiol. Nutr. Metab. , 31(1), 59–60, 2006.
29. Health and Welfare Canada, Nutrition Recommendations. The Report of the Scientiﬁc
Review Committee , Canadian Government Publishing Center, Ottawa, Canada, 1990.
30. von Liebig, J., Animal Chemistry or Organic Chemistry and Its Application to Phys-
icology and Pathology  (translated by Gregory, W.), Taylor and Walton, London, 1842,
144.
31. Fick, A. and Wislicenus, J., On the origin of muscular power, Phil. Mag.J. Sci. , 41,
485–503, 1866.
32. Cathcart, E.P., Inﬂuence of muscle work on protein metabolism, Physiol. Rev ., 5,
225–243, 1925. 
33. Astrand, P.O. and Rodahl, K., Textbook of Work Physiology , 3rd ed., McGraw-Hill
Book Co, New York, 1986. 
34. Lemon, P.W.R., Do athletes need more dietary protein and amino acids?, Int. J. Sport.
Nutr. , 5, S39–S61, 1995. 
35. Kleiner, S.M., Bazzarre, T.L., and Ainsworth, B.E., Nutritional status of nationally
ranked elite bodybuilders, Int. J. Sport Nutr. , 4(1), 54–69, 1994. 
36. Darden, E., Protein, Nautilus magazine , 3(1), 12–17, 1981. 
37. Dohm, G.L., Protein nutrition for the athlete, Clin. Sports Med. , 3(3), 595–604, 1984. 
38. Lemon, P.W., Maximizing performance with nutrition: Protein and exercise: update
1987, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 19(5), S179–S190, 1987. 
39. Burke, L.M. and Read, R.S., Sports nutrition: Approaching the nineties, Sports Med. ,
8(2), 80–100, 1989.
40. Lemon, P.W., Protein requirements of soccer, J. Sports Sci. , 12, S17–S22, 1994. 
41. Lemon, P.W., Do athletes need more dietary protein and amino acids?, Int. J. Sports
Med. , 5, S39–S61, 1995.
42. Phillips, S.M., Atkinson, S.A., Tarnopolsky, M.A., and MacDougall, J.D. Gender
differences in leucine kinetics and nitrogen balance in endurance athletes, J. Appl.
Physiol. , 75, 2134–2141, 1993.
43. Gaine, P.C., Pikosky, M.A., Martin, W.F., Bolster, D.R., Maresh, C.M., and Rodriguez,
N.R., Level of dietary protein impacts whole body protein turnover in trained malesat rest, Metabolism , 55(4), 501–507, 2006.
44. Butterﬁeld, G.E., Whole body protein utilization in humans, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. ,
19, S157–S165, 1987.
45. Piatti, P.M., Monti, L.D., and Magni, F., Hypocaloric high-protein diet improves
glucose oxidation and spares lean body mass: Comparison to hypocaloric high-carbohydrate diet, Metabolism , 43, 1481–1487, 1994.
46. Fern, E.B., Bielinski, R.N., and Schutz, Y ., Effects of exaggerated amino acid and
protein supply in man, Experientia , 47(2), 168–172, 1991. 7950_C004.fm  Page 115  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

116 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
47. Bigard, A.X., Satabin, P., Lavier, P., Bigard, A.X., Satabin, P., and Lavier, P., Effects
of protein supplementation during prolonged exercise at moderate altitude on perfor-
mance and plasma amino acid pattern, Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. , 66(1),
5–10, 1993. 
48. Phillips, S.M., Protein requirements and supplementation in strength sports, Nutrition ,
20(7–8), 689–695, 2004. 
49. V olek, J.S., Forsythe, C.E., and Kraemer, W.J., Nutritional aspects of women strength
athletes, Br. J. Sports Med. , 40(9):742–8, 2006. 
50. Tarnopolsky, M., Protein requirements for endurance athletes, Nutrition , 20(7–8),
662–668, 2004.
51. Henriksson, J., Effect of exercise on amino acid concentrations in skeletal muscle
and plasma, J. Exp. Biol ., 160, 149–165, 1991. 
52. Dohm, G.L., Tapscott, E.B., and Kasperek, G.J., Protein degradation during endurance
exercise and recovery, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 19(5), S166–S171, 1987.
53. Millward, D.J., Bates, P.C., and Brown, J.G., Role of thyroid, insulin and corticos-
teroid hormones in the physiological regulation of proteolysis in muscle, Prog. Clin.
Biol. Res. , 180, 531–542, 1985. 
54. Lemon, P.W., Protein requirements of soccer,  J. Sports Sci. , 12, S17–22, 1994. 
55. Manz, F., Remer, T., Decher-Spliethoff, E., Hohler, M., Kersting, M., Kunz, C., and
Lausen, B., Effects of a high protein intake on renal acid excretion in bodybuilders,Zeit. Ernahrungswiss. , 34(1), 10–15, 1995. 
56. Sterck, J.G., Ritskes-Hoitinga,J., and Beynen, A.C., Inhibitory effect of high protein
intake on nephrocalcinogenesis in female rats, Br. J. Nutr. , 67(2), 223–233, 1992. 
57. Bilsborough, S. and Mann, N., A review of issues of dietary protein intake in humans,
Int. J .Sport Nutr. Exerc. Metab. , 16(2), 129–152, 2006.
58. Wolfe, B.M. and Giovannetti, P.M., Short-term effects of substituting protein for
carbohydrate in the diets of moderately hypercholesterolemic human subjects, Metab-
olism: Clin.Exper. , 40(4), 338–43, 1991. 
59. Wolfe, B.M. and Giovannetti, P.M., High-protein diet complements resin therapy of
familial hypercholesterolemia, Clin Invest. Med. , 15(4), 349–59, 1992. 
60. Wolfe, B.M. and Piche, L.A., Replacement of carbohydrate by protein in a conventional-
fat diet reduces cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations in healthy normolipidemicsubjects, Clin. Invest. Med. , 22(4), 140–148, 1999.
61. Hodgson, J.M., Burke, V ., Beilin, L.J., and Puddey, I.B., Partial substitution of
carbohydrate intake with protein intake from lean red meat lowers blood pressure inhypertensive persons, Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 83(4), 780–787, 2006. 
62. He, J., Gu, D., Wu, X., Chen, J., Duan, X., Chen, J., and Whelton, P.K., Effect of
soybean protein on blood pressure: A randomized, controlled trial, Ann. Int. Med. ,
143(1), 1–9, 2005.
63. Hunnisett, A.G., Kars, A., Howard, J.M.H., and Davies, S., Changes in plasma amino
acids during conditioning therapy prior to bone marrow transplantation: Their rele-vance to antioxidant status, Amino Acids , 4(1–2), 177–185, 1993. 
64. Soon Cho, E., Krause, G.F., and Anderson, H.L., Effects of dietary histidine and
arginine on plasma amino acid and urea concentrations of men fed a low nitrogendiet, J. Nutr , 107(11), 2078–2089, 1977. 
65. Laidlaw, S.A. and Kopple, J.D., Newer concepts of the indispensable amino acids,
Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 46(4), 593–605, 1987. 
66. Harper, A.E. and Yoshimura, N.N., Protein quality, amino acid balance, utilization,
and evaluation of diets containing amino acids as therapeutic agents, Nutrition ,
9(5):460–469, 1993. 7950_C004.fm  Page 116  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 117
67. Kihlberg, R., Bark, S., and Hallberg, D., An oral amino acid loading test before and after
intestinal bypass operation for morbid obesity, Acta Chir. Scand. , 148(1), 73–86, 1982. 
68. Furst, P. and Stehle, P., What are the essential elements needed for the determination
of amino acid requirements in humans?, J. Nutr. , 134, 1558S–1565S, 2004.
69. Pencharz, P.B. and Azcue, M., Use of bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) mea-
surements in the clinical management of malnutrition, Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 64,
S485–S488, 1996.
70. Katagiri, M. and Nakamura, M., Animals are dependent on preformed alpha-amino
nitrogen as an essential nutrient, IUBMB Life , 53(2), 125–129, 2002. 
71. Katagiri, M. and Nakamura, M., Reappraisal of the 20th-century version of amino
acid metabolism, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm ., 312(1):205–208, 2003.
72. Rennie, M.J., Edwards, R.H., Krywawych, S., Davies ,C.T., Halliday, D., Waterlow,
J.C., and Millward, D.J., Effect of exercise on protein turnover in man, Clin. Sci. ,
61(5), 627–639, 1981. 
73. Lowell, B.B., Ruderman, N.B., and Goodman, M.N., Regulation of myoﬁbrillar
protein degradation in rat skeletal muscle during brief and prolonged starvation,
Metabolism , 35, 1121–1127, 1986.
74. Li, J.B. and Goldberg, A.L., Effects of food deprivation on protein synthesis and
degradation in rat skeletal muscle, Am. J. Physiol. , 246, E32–E37, 1984.
75. Dohm, G.L., Tapscott, E.B., Barakat, H.A., and Kasperek, G.J., Measurement of in vivo
protein synthesis in rats during an exercise bout, Biochem. Med. , 27, 367–372, 1982.
76. Dohm, G.L., Williams, R.T., and Kasperek, G.J., Increased excretion of urea and N
tau-methylhistidine by rats and humans after a bout of exercise, J. Appl. Physiol. ,
52(1), 27–33, 1982. 
77. Millward, D.J., Davies, C.T., Halliday, D., Wolman,S.L., Matthews, D., and Rennie,
M., Effect of exercise on protein metabolism in humans as explored with stableisotopes, Fed. Proc. , 41(10), 2686–2691, 1982. 
78. Wolfe, R.R., Wolfe, M.H., Nadel, E.R., and Shaw, J.H.F., Isotopic determinations of
amino acid–urea interactions in exercise, J. Appl. Physiol. , 56, 221–229, 1984. 
79. Wolfe, R.R., Goodenough, R.D., Wolfe, M.H., Royle, G.T., and Nadel, E.R., Isotopic
analysis of leucine and urea metabolism in exercising humans, J. Appl. Physiol. , 52,
458–466, 1982. 
80. Devlin, J.T., Brodsky, I., Scrimgeour, A., Fuller, S., and Bier, D.M., Amino acid
metabolism after intense exercise, Am. J. Physiol. , 258(2 Pt 1), E249–255, 1990. 
81. Layman, D.K., Paul, G.L. and Olken, M.H., Amino Acid Metabolism during Exercise,
in Nutrition in Exercise and Sport , Wolinsky, I. and Hickson, J.F. Jr., Eds., CRC
Press, Boca Raton, FL, 1994, 127. 
82. Flakoll, P.J., Judy, T., Flinn, K., Carr, C., and Flinn, S., Postexercise protein supple-
mentation improves health and muscle soreness during basic military training inMarine recruits, J. Appl. Physiol. , 96(3), 943–950, 2004. 
83. Levenhagen, D.K., Carr, C., Carlson, M.G., Maron, D.J., Borel, M.J., and Flakoll,
P.J., Postexercise protein intake enhances whole-body and leg protein accretion inhumans, Med .Sci. Sports Exerc. , 34(5), 828–837, 2002.
84. Esmarck, B., Andersen, J.L., Olsen, S., Richter, E.A., Mizuno, M., and Kjaer, M.,
Timing of postexercise protein intake is important for muscle hypertrophy withresistance training in elderly humans, J. Physiol. , 15(8), Pt 1, 301–311, 2001.
85. Levenhagen, D.K., Gresham, J.D., Carlson, M.G., Maron, D.J., Borel, M.J., and
Flakoll, P.J., Postexercise nutrient intake timing in humans is critical to recovery ofleg glucose and protein homeostasis, Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. , 280(6),
E982–E993, 2001.7950_C004.fm  Page 117  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

118 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
86. Willoughby, D.S., Stout ,J.R., and Wilborn, C.D., Effects of resistance training and
protein plus amino acid supplementation on muscle anabolism, mass, and strength,
Amino Acids , Sep 20, 2006 [Epub ahead of print].
87. Bird, S.P., Tarpenning, K.M., and Marino, F.E., Liquid carbohydrate/essential amino
acid ingestion during a short-term bout of resistance exercise suppresses myoﬁbrillarprotein degradation, Metabolism , 55(5), 570–577, 2006.
88. Tipton, K.D., Elliott, T.A., Cree, M.G., Aarsland, A.A., Sanford, A.P., and Wolfe, R.R.,
Stimulation of net muscle protein synthesis by whey protein ingestion before and afterexercise, Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. , Aug 8, 2006 [Epub ahead of print].
89. Layman, D.K., Paul, G.L., and Olken, M.H., Amino Acid Metabolism during Exer-
cise, in Nutrition in Exercise and Sport , Wolinsky, I. and Hickson, J.F. Jr., Eds., CRC
Press, Boca Raton, FL, 1994, 127. 
90. Gautsch, T.A., Anthony, J.C., Kimball, S.R., Paul, G.L., Layman, D.K., and Jefferson,
L.S., Availability of eIF-4E regulates skeletal muscle protein synthesis during recov-ery from exercise, Am. J. Physiol. , 274, C406–C414, 1998.
91. Williamson, D.L., Kubica, N., Kimball, S.R., and Jefferson, L.S., Exercise-induced
alterations in extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and mammalian target of rapa-mycin (mTOR) signalling to regulatory mechanisms of mRNA translation in mousemuscle, J. Physiol. , 573(6) Pt 2, 497–510, 2006.
92. Atherton, P.J. and Rennie, M.J., Protein synthesis a low priority for exercising muscle,
J. Physiol. , 573(6) Pt 2, 288–289, 2006.
93. Morgan, H.E., Earl, D.C.N., Broadus, A., Wolpert, E.B., Giger, K.E., and Jefferson,
L.S., Regulation of protein synthesis in heart muscle: I. Effect of amino acid levelson protein synthesis, J. Biol. Chem. , 246, 2152–2162, 1971. 
94. Hardie, D.G. and Hawley, S.A., AMP-activated protein kinase: the energy charge
hypothesis revisited, BioEssays , 23,1112–1119, 2001.
95. Bolster, D.R., Crozier, S.J., Kimball, S.R., and Jefferson, L.S., AMP-activated protein
kinase suppresses protein synthesis in rat skeletal muscle through a down-regulatedmammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling, J. Biol. Chem. , 277,
23977–23980, 2002.
96. Meley, D., Bauvy, C., Houben-Weerts, J.H., Dubbelhuis, P.F., Helmond, M.T.,
Codogno, P., and Meijer, A.J., AMP-activated protein kinase and the regulation ofautophagic proteolysis, J. Biol. Chem. , September 21, 2006 [Epub ahead of print].
97. Dreyer, H.C., Fujita, S., Cadenas, J.G., Chinkes, D.L., V olpi, E., and Rasmussen,
B.B., Resistance exercise increases AMPK activity and reduces 4E-BP1 phosphory-lation and protein synthesis in human skeletal muscle, J. Physiol. , 576(10) Pt 2,
613–624, 2006. 
98. Noma, T., Dynamics of nucleotide metabolism as a supporter of life phenomena,
J. Med. Invest. , 52(3–4):127–136, 2005.
99. Valero, E., Varon, R., and Garcia-Carmona, F., A kinetic study of a ternary cycle
between adenine nucleotides, FEBS J. , 273(15), 3598–3613, 2006.
100. Lambeth, D.O., Reconsideration of the signiﬁcance of substrate-level phosphorylation
in the citric acid cycle, Biochem. Educ. , 34, 21–29, 2006.
101. Hochachka, P.W., Owen, T.G., Allen, J.F., and Whittow, G.C., Multiple end products
of anaerobiosis in diving vertebrates, Comp. Biochem. Physiol. Biochem. Mol. Biol. ,
50, 17–22, 1975.
102. Weinberg, J.M., Venkatachalam, M.A., Roeser, N.F., Saikumar, P., Dong, Z., Senter,
R.A., and Nissim, I., Anaerobic and aerobic pathways for salvage of proximal tubulesfrom hypoxia-induced mitochondrial injury, Am. J. Physiol. Renal Physiol. , 279,
F927–F943, 2000.7950_C004.fm  Page 118  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 119
103. Penney, D.G. and Cascarno, J., Anaerobic rat heart: Effects of glucose and tricarbox-
ylic acid-cycle metabolites on metabolism and physiological performance, Biochem.
J., 118, 221–227, 1970.
104. Gronow, G.H.J. and Cohen, J.J., Substrate support for renal functions during hypoxia
in the perfused rat kidney, Am. J. Physiol. Renal Fluid Electrolyte Physiol. , 247,
F618–F631, 1984.
105. Weinberg, J.M., Venkatachalam, M.A., Roeser, N.F. and Nissim, I., Mitochondrial
dysfunction during hypoxia/reoxygenation and its correction by anaerobic metabolism
of citric acid cycle intermediates, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA , 97, 2826–2831, 2000.
106. Hochachka, P.W. and Dressendorfer, R.H., Succinate accumulation in man during
exercise, Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. , 35, 235–242, 1976.
107. Degoutte, F., Jouanel, P., and Filaire, E., Energy demands during a judo match and
recovery, Br. J. Sports Med. , 37(3), 245–249, 2003.
108. Piatti, P.M., Monti, L.D., Pacchioni, M., Pontiroli, A.E., and Pozza, G., Forearm
insulin- and non-insulin-mediated glucose uptake and muscle metabolism in man:role of free fatty acids and blood glucose levels, Metabolism , 40(9), 926–933, 1991.
109. Felig, P., Wahren, J., Sherwin, R. and Palaiologos, G., Amino acid and protein
metabolism in diabetes mellitus, Arch. Internal Med. , 137(4), 507–513, 1977. 
110. Favier, R.J., Koubi, H.E., Mayet, M.H., Sempore, B., Simi, B., and Flandrois, R.,
Effects of gluconeogenic precursor ﬂux alterations on glycogen resynthesis afterprolonged exercise, J. Appl. Physiol. , 63(5), 1733–1738, 1987. 
111. Azzout, B., Bois-Joyeux, B., Chanez, M., and Peret, J., Development of gluconeo-
genesis from various precursors in isolated rat hepatocytes during starvation or afterfeeding a high protein, carbohydrate-free diet, J. Nutr. , 117(1), 164–169, 1987. 
112. Jahoor, F., Peters, E.J., and Wolfe, R.R., The relationship between gluconeogenic
substrate supply and glucose production in humans, Am. J. Physiol. , 258(2) Pt 1,
E288–E896, 1990. 
113. Amiel, S.A., Archibald, H.R., Chusney, G., Williams, A.J., and Gale, E.A., Ketone
infusion lowers hormonal responses to hypoglycaemia: evidence for acute cerebralutilization of a non-glucose fuel, Clin. Sci. , 81(2), 189–194, 1991. 
114. Cori, C.F., Mammalian carbohydrate metabolism, Physiol. Rev. , 11, 143–275, 1931.
115. Reichard, G.A. Jr., Moury, F.N. Jr., Hochella, N.J., Patterson, A.L., and Weinhouse, S.,
Quantitative estimation of the Cori cycle in the human, J. Biol. Chem.,  238, 495–501, 1963. 
116. Gerich, J.E., Control of glycaemia, Baillieres Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. , 7(3), 551–586,
1993. 
117. Chevalier, S., Burgess, S.C., Malloy, C.R., Gougeon, R., Marliss, E.B., and Morais,
J.A., The greater contribution of gluconeogenesis to glucose production in obesity isrelated to increased whole-body protein catabolism, Diabetes , 55(3), 675–681, 2006. 
118. Harber, M.P., Schenk, S., Barkan, A.L., and Horowitz ,J.F., Alterations in carbohydrate
metabolism in response to short-term dietary carbohydrate restriction, Am. J. Physiol.
Endocrinol. Metab. , 289(2), E306–E312, 2005.
119. Jungas, R.L., Halperin, M.L., and Brosnan, J.T., Quantitative analysis of amino acid
oxidation and related gluconeogenesis in humans, Physiol. Rev ., 72(2), 419–448, 1992.
120. Nurjhan, N., Bucci, A., Perriello, G., Stumvoll, M., Dailey, G., Bier, D.M., Toft, I.,
Jenssen, T.G., and Gerich, J.E., Glutamine: A major gluconeogenic precursor andvehicle for interorgan carbon transport in man, J. Clin. Invest. , 95(1), 272–277, 1995. 
121. Bisschop, P.H., Pereira Arias, A.M., Ackermans, M.T., Endert, E., Pijl, H., Kuipers,
F., Meijer, A.J., Sauerwein, H.P., and Romijn, J.A., The effects of carbohydratevariation in isocaloric diets on glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis in healthy men,J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. , 85(5), 1963–1967, 2000.7950_C004.fm  Page 119  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

120 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
122. Roden, M., Stingl, H., Chandramouli, V ., Schumann, W.C., Hofer, A., Landau, B.R.,
Nowotny, P., Waldhausl, W., and Shulman, G.I., Effects of free fatty acid elevation
on postabsorptive endogenous glucose production and gluconeogenesis in humans,Diabetes , 49(5), 701–707, 2000.
123. Kaloyianni, M. and Freedland, R.A., Contribution of several amino acids and lactate
to gluconeogenesis in hepatocytes isolated from rats fed various diets, J. Nutr. , 120(1),
116–122, 1990. 
124. Widhalm, K., Zwiauer, K., Hayde, M., and Roth, E., Plasma concentrations of free
amino acids during 3 weeks treatment of massively obese children with a very lowcalorie diet, Eur. J. Pediatr. , 149(1), 43–47, 1989. 
125. Pozefsky, T., Tancredi, R.G., Moxley, R.T., Dupre, J., and Tobin, J.D., Effects of brief
starvation on muscle amino acid metabolism in nonobese man, J. Clin. Invest. , 57(2),
444–449, 1976. 
126. Fery, F., Bourdoux, P., Christophe, J., and Balasse, E.O., Hormonal and metabolic
changes induced by an isocaloric isoproteinic ketogenic diet in healthy subjects,Diabete et Metabolisme , 8(4), 299–305, 1982. 
127. Cynober, L., Amino acid metabolism in thermal burns, J. Parenter. Enteral Nutr. ,
13(2), 196–205, 1989. 
128. Lemon, P.W. and Nagle, F.J., Effects of exercise on protein and amino acid metabo-
lism, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 13(3), 141–149, 1981. 
129. Rothman, D.L., Magnusson, I., Katz, L.D., Shulman, R.G., and Shulman, G.I., Quan-
titation of hepatic glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis in fasting humans with
 13C
NMR, Science , 254:573–576, 1991.
130. Katz, J. and Tayek, J.A., Gluconeogenesis and the Cori cycle in 12-, 20-, and 40-h-
fasted humans, Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. , 275(3), E537–542, 1998.
131. Boden, G., Chen, X., and Stein, T.P., Gluconeogenesis in moderately and severely
hyperglycemic patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol.
Metab. , 280, E23–E30, 2001.
132. Chevalier, S., Burgess, S.C., Malloy, C.R., Gougeon, R., Marliss, E.B., and Morais,
J,A., The greater contribution of gluconeogenesis to glucose production in obesity isrelated to increased whole-body protein catabolism, Diabetes , 55(3), 675–681, 2006.
133. Wang, X., Hu, Z., Hu, J., Du, J., and Mitch, W.E., Insulin resistance accelerates
muscle protein degradation: Activation of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway bydefects in muscle cell signaling, Endocrinology , 147(9), 4160–4168, 2006.
134. Floyd, J., Fayans, S., Conn, J., Knopf, R., and Rull, J., Stimulation of insulin secretion
by amino acids, J. Clin. Invest. , 45, 1487–1502, 1966.
135. Ohneda, A., Parada, E., Eisentraut, A., and Unger, R., Characterization of response
of circulating glucagon to intraduodenal and intravenous administration of aminoacids, J. Clin. Invest. , 47, 2305–2322, 1968.
136. Adkins, A., Basu, R., Persson, M., Dicke, B., Shah, P., Vella, A., Schwenk, W.F., and
Rizza, R., Higher insulin concentrations are required to suppress gluconeogenesisthan glycogenolysis in nondiabetic humans, Diabetes , 52, 2213–2220, 2003.
137. Krebs, M., Brehm, A., Krssak, M., Anderwald, C., Bernroider, E., Nowotny, P., Roth,
E., Chandramouli, V ., Landau, B.R., Waldhausl, W., and Roden, M., Direct andindirect effects of amino acids on hepatic glucose metabolism in humans, Diabeto-
logia , 46(7), 917–925, 2003.
138. Jungas, R.L., Halperin, M.L., and Brosnan, J.T., Quantitative analysis of amino acid
oxidation and related gluconeogenesis in humans, Physiol. Rev. , 72(2), 419–448, 1992. 
139. Pisarenko, O.I., Solomatina, E.S., and Studneva, I.M., Formation of the intermediate
products of the tricarboxylic acid cycle and ammonia from free amino acids in anoxicheart muscle, Biokhimiia , 51(8), 1276–1285, 1986. 7950_C004.fm  Page 120  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 121
140. Wiesner, R.J., Ruegg, J.C., and Grieshaber, M.K., The anaerobic heart: succinate
formation and mechanical performance of cat papillary muscle, Exper. Biol. , 45(1),
55–64, 1986. 
141. Camici, P., Marraccini, P., Lorenzoni, R., Ferrannini, E., Buzzigoli, G., Marzilli, M.,
and L’Abbate, A., Metabolic markers of stress-induced myocardial ischemia, Circu-
lation , 83(5 Suppl), 1118–1113, 1991. 
142. Hutson, S.M., Wallin, R., and Hall, T.R., Identiﬁcation of mitochondrial branched
chain aminotransferase and its isoforms in rat tissues, J. Biol. Chem. , 267(22),
15681–15686, 1992.
143. Fisher, A.G. and Jensen, C.R., Scientiﬁc Basis of Athletic Conditioning , Lea &
Febiger, Philadelphia, 1991.
144. Kuhn, E., The effect of work load on amino acid metabolism, Czech. Vnitrni Lekarstvi ,
40(7), 411–115, 1994. 
145. Brown, J.A., Gore, D.C., and Jahoor, F., Catabolic hormones alone fail to reproduce
the stress-induced efﬂux of amino acids, Arch. Surg. , 129(8), 819–824, 1994. 
146. Brown, J., Gore, D.C., and Lee, R., Dichloroacetate inhibits peripheral efﬂux of
pyruvate and alanine during hormonally simulated catabolic stress, J. Surg. Res .,
54(6), 592–596, 1993. 
147. Carlin, J.I., Olson, E.B. Jr., Peters, H.A., and Reddan, W.G., The effects of post-
exercise glucose and alanine ingestion on plasma carnitine and ketosis in humans, J.
Physiol. , 390, 295–303, 1987. 
148. Newsholme, E.A., Crabtree, B., and Ardawi, M.S., The role of high rates of glycolysis
and glutamine utilization in rapidly dividing cells, Biosci. Rep. , 5(5), 393–400, 1985. 
149. Felig, P., The glucose-alanine cycle, Metabolism , 22, 179–207, 1973. 
150. Ahlborg, G., Hagenfeldt, L., and Wahren, J., Substrate turnover during prolonged
exercise in man, J. Clin. Invest. , 53, 1080 –1090, 1974. 
151. Lemon, P.W.R. and Mullin, J.P., Effect of initial muscle glycogen levels on protein
catabolism during exercise, J. Appl. Physiol. , 48, 624–629, 1980.
152. Lemon, P.W. and Nagle, F.J., Effects of exercise on protein and amino acid metabo-
lism, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. , 13(3), 141–149, 1981. 
153. Brooks, G.A., Amino acid and protein metabolism during exercise and recovery, Med.
Sci. Sports Exerc. , 19(5 Suppl), S150–S156, 1987. 
154. Wolfe, R.R., Jahoor, F., Herndon, D.N., and Miyoshi, H., Isotopic evaluation of the
metabolism of pyruvate and related substrates in normal adult volunteers and severely
burned children: Effect of dichloroacetate and glucose infusion, Surgery , 110(1),
54–67, 1991. 
155. Sewell, D.A. and Harris, R.C., Adenine nucleotide degradation in the thoroughbred
horse with increasing exercise duration, Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. , 65(3),
271–277, 1992. 
156. Sewell, D.A., Gleeson, M., and Blannin, A.K., Hyperammonaemia in relation to high-
intensity exercise duration in man, Eu.r J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. , 69(4),
350–354, 1994. 
157. Sahlin, B.S., Adenine nucleotide depletion in human muscle during exercise: cau-
sality and signiﬁcance of AMP deamination, Int. J. Sports Med. , 11 Suppl 2,
S62–S67, 1990. 
158. van Hall, G., van der Vusse, G.J., Soderlund, K., and Wagenmakers, A.J., Deamination
of amino acids as a source for ammonia production in human skeletal muscle duringprolonged exercise, J. Physiol. , 489(Pt 1), 251–261, 1995. 
159. Graham, T.E. and MacLean, D.A., Ammonia and amino acid metabolism in human
skeletal muscle during exercise, Can. J. Physiol. Pharmacol. , 70(1), 132–141, 1992. 7950_C004.fm  Page 121  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

122 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
160. Wagenmakers, A.J., Beckers, E.J., Brouns, F., Kuipers, H., Soeters, P.B,, van der Vusse,
G.J., and Saris, W.H., Carbohydrate supplementation, glycogen depletion, and amino
acid metabolism during exercise, Am. J. Physiol. , 260(6 Pt 1), E883–E890, 1991. 
161. MacLean, D.A., Graham, T.E., and Saltin, B., Branched-chain amino acids augment
ammonia metabolism while attenuating protein breakdown during exercise, Am. J.
Physiol. , 267, E1010–E1022, 1994.
162. Colombo, J.P., Cervantes, H., Kokorovic, M., Pﬁster, U., and Perritaz, R., Effect of
different protein diets on the distribution of amino acids in plasma, liver and brainin the rat, Ann. Nutr. Metab. , 36, 23–33, 1992.
163. Remesy, C., Morand, C., Demigne, C., and Fafournoux, P., Control of hepatic utili-
zation of glutamine by transport processes or cellular metabolism in rats fed a high-protein diet, J. Nutr. , 118, 569–578, 1988.
164. Morens, C., Gaudichon, C., Fromentin, G., Marsset-Baglieri, A., Bensaid, A., Larue-
Achagiotis, C., Luengo, C., and Tome, D., Daily delivery of dietary nitrogen to theperiphery is stable in rats adapted to increased protein intake, Am. J. Physiol. Endo-
crinol. Metab. , 281, E826–E836, 2001.
165. Morens, C., Gaudichon, C., Meteges, C., Fromentin, G., Baglieri, A., Even, P.C.,
Huneau, J., and Tome, D., A high-protein meal exceeds anabolic and cataboliccapacities in rats adapted to a normal protein diet, J. Nutr. , 130, 2312–2321, 2000.
166. Phillips, R.J. and Powley, T.L., Gastric volume rather than nutrients content inhibits
food intake, Am. J. Physiol. , 271, R766–R769, 1996.
167. Speth, J.D. and Spielmann, K.A., Energy source, protein metabolism, and hunter-
gatherer subsistence strategies, J. Anthropol. Archaeol. , 2, 1–31, 1983.
168. Rudman, D., DiFulco, T.J., Galambos, J.T., Smith, R.B., Salam, A.A., and Warren,
W.D., Maximal rates of excretion and synthesis of urea in normal and cirrhoticsubjects, J. Clin. Invest. , 52:2241–2249, 1973.
169. Schimke, R.T., The importance of both synthesis and degradation in the control of
arginase levels in rat liver, J. Biol. Chem. , 239:3808–3817, 1964.
170. Das, T.K. and Waterlow, J.C., The rate of adaptation of urea cycle enzymes, ami-
notransferases and glutamic dehydrogenase to changes in dietary protein intake, Br.
J. Nutr. , 32, 353–373, 1974.
171. Jequier, E., Pathways to obesity, Int. J. Obes. Relat. Metab. Disord. , 26 Suppl 2,
S12–S17, 2002. 
172. V olek, J.S., Sharman, M.J., Love, D.M., Avery, N.G., Gomez, A.L., Scheett, T.P., and
Kraemer, W.J., Body composition and hormonal responses to a carbohydrate-restricted diet, Metabolism , 1(7), 864–870, 2002.
173. Krieger, J.W., Sitren, H.S., Daniels, M.J., and Langkamp-Henken, B., Effects of
variation in protein and carbohydrate intake on body mass and composition duringenergy restriction: A meta-regression, Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 83, 260–274, 2006.
174. Young, C.M., Scanlan, S.S., Im, H.S., and Lutwak, L., Effect on body composition
and other parameters in obese young men of carbohydrate level of reduction diet,Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 24, 290–296, 1971.
175. Willi, S.M., Oexmann, M.J., Wright, N.M., Collop, N.A., and Key, L.L. Jr., The effects
of a high-protein, low-fat, ketogenic diet on adolescents with morbid obesity: Bodycomposition, blood chemistries, and sleep abnormalities, Pediatr. , 101, 61–67, 1998.
176. Manninen, A.H., Metabolic advantage of low-carbohydrate diets: A calorie is still
not a calorie, Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 83(6), 1442 – 1443, 2006.
177. Labayen, I., Diez, N., Parra, D., Gonzalez, A., and Martinez, J.A., Basal and post-
prandial substrate oxidation rates in obese women receiving two test meals withdifferent protein content, Clin. Nutr. , 23(4), 571–578, 2004.7950_C004.fm  Page 122  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

Utilization of Proteins in Energy Metabolism 123
178. V olpi, E., Lucidi, P., Cruciani, G., Monacchia, F., Reboldi, G., Brunetti, P., Bolli,
G.B., and De Feo, P., Contribution of amino acids and insulin to protein anabolism
during meal absorption, Diabetes , 45, 1245–1252, 1996.
179. Westman, E.C., Yancy, W.S., Edman, J.S., Tomlin, K.F., and Perkins, C.E., Effect of
6-month adherence to a very low carbohydrate diet program, Am. J. Med. , 113(1),
30–36, 2002.
180. Foster, G.D., Wyatt, H.R., Hill, J.O., McGuckin, B.G., Brill, C., Mohammed, B.S.,
Phillippe, O., Rader, D.J., Edman, J.S., and Klein, S., A randomized trial of a low-carbohydrate diet for obesity, NEJM , 348(21), 2082–2090, 2003.
181. Samaha, F.F., Iqbal, N., Seshadri, P., Chicano, K.L., Daily, D.A., McGrory, J., Wil-
liams, T., Williams, M., Gracely, E.J., and Stern, L., A low-carbohydrate as comparedwith a low-fat diet in severe obesity, N. Engl. J. Med. , 348 (21), 2074–2081, 2003.
182. Stern, L., Iqbal, N., Seshadri, P., Chicano, K.L., Daily, D.A., McGrory, J., Williams,
M., Gracely, E.J., and Samaha, F.F., The effects of low-carbohydrate versus conven-tional weight loss diets in severely obese adults: One-year follow-up of a randomizedtrial, Ann. Intern. Med. , 140(10), 778–785, 2004.
183. Brehm, B.J., Seeley, R.J., Daniels, S.R., and D’Alessio, D.A., A randomized trial
comparing a very low carbohydrate diet and a calorie-restricted low fat diet on bodyweight and cardiovascular risk factors in healthy women, J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. ,
88, 1617–1623, 2003.
184. Brehm, B.J., Spang, S.E., Lattin, B.L., Seeley, R.J., Daniels, S.R., and D’Alessio,
D.A., The role of energy expenditure in the differential weight loss in obese womenon low-fat and low-carbohydrate diets, J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. , 90(3), 1475–1482,
2005.
185. Yancy, W.S. Jr., Olsen, M.K., Guyton, J.R., Bakst, R.P., and Westman, E.C., A low-
carbohydrate, ketogenic diet versus a low-fat diet to treat obesity and hyperlipidemia:a randomized, controlled trial, Ann. Intern. Med. , 140(10), 769–777, 2004.
186. Halton, T.L., Willett, W.C., Liu, S., Manson, J.E., Albert, C.M., Rexrode, K., and Hu,
F.B., Low-carbohydrate-diet score and the risk of coronary heart disease in women,N. Engl. J.Med. , 355, 1991–2002, 2006.
187. Lemon, P.W. and Proctor, D.N., Protein intake and athletic performance, Sports Med. ,
12(5), 313–325, 1991. 
188. Wagenmakers, A.J., Amino acid metabolism, muscular fatigue and muscle wasting:
Speculations on adaptations at high altitude, Intern. J. Sports Med. , 13 Suppl 1,
S110–113, 1992.7950_C004.fm  Page 123  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

7950_C004.fm  Page 124  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:53 PM

 
Section 2 
Estimation of Energy 
Requirements 
7950_S002.fm  Page 125  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  6:01 PM

 
7950_S002.fm  Page 126  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  6:01 PM

 
127 
5 
Energy Expenditure 
of Athletes 
Robert G. McMurray and Kristin S. Ondrak 
CONTENTS 
I.  Introduction ..................................................................................................127
II. Methods for the Measurement of Metabolic Rate ......................................128
A. Direct Calorimetry................................................................................128B. Indirect Calorimetry .............................................................................129
1. Closed Circuit Spirometry.............................................................1302. Open Circuit Spirometry ...............................................................131
C. Doubly Labeled Water..........................................................................133
III. Energy During Sport and Physical Activity ................................................134
A. Use of Open Circuit Technology .........................................................134B. Use of Heart Rate To Estimate Energy Expenditure...........................135
IV . Ergometers ...................................................................................................135
A. Cycle Ergometers..................................................................................136B. Rowing Ergometers ..............................................................................138C. Treadmills .............................................................................................139D. Cross-Country Ski Ergometers.............................................................139
V . Metabolic Rate During Swimming..............................................................140VI. Maximal Metabolic Rate .............................................................................142VII.  Anaerobic Threshold....................................................................................144VIII. Economy of Human Movement...................................................................146IX. Resting Energy Expenditure ........................................................................147
A. Measurement of Resting Energy Expenditure .....................................147B. Factors Inﬂuencing REE ......................................................................148
X.  Daily Energy Expenditure of Athletes.........................................................149XI. Summary ......................................................................................................151References..............................................................................................................152 
I. INTRODUCTION  
The measurement of metabolic rate can provide important information to athletesconcerning their innate abilities and training programs. This is particularly true forhigh-caliber endurance athletes, but is also true for the everyday ﬁtness enthusiast, 
7950_C005.fm  Page 127  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

 
128 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
since knowledge of metabolism also has health implications. Typically, athletes are
interested in four factors. First, they want to know their maximal metabolic rate, anindicator of the body’s maximal ability to consume oxygen. Maximal metabolic rateis also referred to as aerobic power or maximal oxygen uptake (VO 
2max 
). A higher
VO 
2max 
 means that the athlete can sustain a higher level of work without fatigue.
Second, athletes want to know their anaerobic thresholds (AT), or the level ofmetabolic rate at which there is a rapid rise in lactate concentration. Athletes withhigh ATs can sustain a higher level of exertion before fatigue ensues. Third, athletesare interested in their economy of motion. Improved economy of motion is relatedto the mechanics of the activity, be it swim stroke, running stride, or paddling stroke.Highly successful athletes are usually very economical in their use of energy. Fourth,some athletes are interested in their resting metabolic rate, because this knowledgecan assist with their weight-loss or -gain programs.
This chapter will explore the issues of the measurement of metabolic rate as
they relate to the athlete. The chapter starts with an introduction to the units usedto deﬁne metabolic rate, followed by a discussion of the varying techniques to
measure metabolic rate and their use for athletes. Information on sports-speciﬁc
means of measuring metabolic rate is presented followed by a more in-depthexamination of the four metabolic factors of interest to athletes. Finally, the chapter
will conclude with some commentary on estimating of overall energy expenditurefor athletes.
The terms metabolic rate and energy expenditure are used synonymously
through the literature on metabolism. In the English system of measurement, thebasic unit of energy for humans is the  
kilocalorie 
 (kcal). This is the amount of heat
required to increase one kilogram of water one degree Celsius. The scientiﬁccommunity, however, has placed considerable emphasis on the use of the  
kiloJoule 
(kJ) or mega-joule (mJ) over the kcal (S.I. Unit: le Système International d'Unités). 
1 
Conversion between units is simple: one kcal  
= 
 4.184 kJ or 0.00418 mJ. Measuring
calories or joules is difﬁcult in humans and requires extremely expensive equipment.Thus, oxygen uptake (VO 
2 
) is more commonly measured and converted to kcal,
knowing that there are approximately 4.7–5.1 kcal per liter of oxygen, and thenﬁnally to kJ. 
II. METHODS FOR THE MEASUREMENT 
OF METABOLIC RATE 
The energy output of humans can be measured using  
direct 
 and  
indirect 
 calorimetry,
as well as doubly labeled water. 
2–4 
 The advantages, disadvantages, and uses of the
methods are the foci of what follows. 
A. D 
IRECT 
 C 
ALORIMETRY 
Direct calorimetry assesses heat production, typically requiring a small room withhighly insulated walls. 
2,4,5 
 The walls of the unit contain a series of pipes through
which water is pumped at a constant rate. The heat generated by the subject ismeasured by the difference between the incoming and outgoing water temperatures, 
7950_C005.fm  Page 128  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

 
Energy Expenditure of Athletes 
129 
knowing the volume of water and rate of the water ﬂow. Oxygen is continuously
supplied to the subject and carbon dioxide is removed by chemical absorbent. Directcalorimeters range from suit calorimeters, like those used by astronauts, to smallchambers and even larger rooms. Using direct calorimetry to measure metabolic ratetakes considerable time, as it takes a minimum of 30 minutes to equilibrate heatloss and heat production. 
4 
 The method is highly accurate, but is limited only to
resting measures, those activities that have minimal range of movement, or overallenergy use for extended periods of time (2–24 hours). The methods will not workfor most sports or activities, in varying environments, or in large-scale populationstudies. Also, most organizations do not have the expensive, complicated facilitiesand equipment needed to use this method.  
B. I 
NDIRECT 
 C 
ALORIMETRY 
Indirect calorimetry relies on the measurement of VO 
2 
 and is good for measuring
metabolic rate over short periods of time for speciﬁc activities. The underlyingprinciple for indirect calorimetry is that oxygen is needed for the production ofenergy and the measurable end-product of metabolism is carbon dioxide produc-tion. 
2–4  
Oxygen uptake and CO 
2 
 production are computed via mathematical compu-
tations, knowing the volume of air expired and inspired and expired oxygen andcarbon dioxide content of that air (Table 5.1). This method is based on someassumptions. 
2 
 First, the individual is not in a starvation state and proteins make up
only a very small portion of the energy and can therefore be ignored. Second, thecontribution of anaerobic metabolism to the energy production is quite small. Finally,when using a combination of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins as the source ofenergy, approximately 4.82 kcal (20 kJ) of energy is liberated per liter of oxygen used. 
5 
TABLE 5.1Computational Model for Oxygen Uptake 
4 
V 
E 
 (STPD)  
= 
 (273 
° 
C /(273 
° 
C  
+ 
 T 
V 
° 
C))  
× 
 ((BP 
− 
WVT)/760)
V 
I 
  
= 
 V 
E 
  
× 
 ((1  
− 
 F 
E 
O 
2 
  
− 
 F 
E 
CO 
2 
) /0.7904))
VO 
2 
  
= 
 (V 
I 
  
× 
 F 
I 
O 
2 
)  
− 
 (V 
E 
  
× 
 F 
E 
O 
2 
) 
VCO 
2 
  
= 
 (V 
E 
  
× 
 F 
E 
CO 
2 
)  
− 
 (V 
I 
  
× 
 F 
I 
CO 
2 
) 
RER  
= 
 VCO 
2 
/VO 
2 
 
RER on chart will give kcal/L oxygen (as well as percent carbohydrates & fats) 
12 
kcal/min  
= 
 (kcal/L O 
2 
)  
× 
 VO 
2 
 (L/min) 
kJ/min  
= 
 (kcal/min)  
× 
 4.184 kJ/kcal
T 
V 
° 
C: temperature of the expired air volume
BP: barometric pressure
WVT: water vapor tension for the expired (47 mmHg) air at T 
V 
° 
C
F 
I 
: fraction of inspired gas expressed as a decimal (O 
2 
  
= 
 0.2093 & CO 
2 
  
= 
 0.003)
F 
E 
: fraction of expired gas (O 
2 
 & CO 
2 
) obtained from the gas meters
RER: respiratory exchange ratio 
7950_C005.fm  Page 129  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

 
130 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
For convenience, the 4.82 kcal/L O 
2 
 has been rounded to 5 kcal or 21 kJ per liter
of oxygen. Indirect methods are less expensive, smaller, and more portable than
direct calorimetry. Since good agreement (<1% difference) exists between directand indirect calorimetry and the advantages of indirect calorimetry are considerable,the use of indirect calorimetry is attractive. 
4–6 
 There are actually two general indirect
calorimetry methods. One employs a  
closed circuit system 
 while the other uses an 
open circuit system. 
 Both appear to be equally as valid; however, the open circuit
system has proven to be more beneﬁcial for activities involving movement. 
1. Closed Circuit Spirometry 
The closed circuit system of indirect calorimetry uses a spirometer, which is an air-tight cylinder ﬁlled with 100% oxygen, and also a separate carbon dioxide absorbent,which is used to remove exhaled CO 
2 
. 
7 
 Since oxygen is assimilated by the body and
any CO 
2 
 produced is removed from the spirometer, the volume of gas in the spirom-
eter reduces as the person breathes through the system (Figure 5.1). The differencebetween the initial and the ﬁnal volumes of the spirometer is the oxygen uptake.The oxygen uptake is then multiplied by 5 kcal/L to obtain the energy use. Thereare some problems inherent with this system. 
8 
 The system must be air-tight so volume
changes are related only to oxygen uptake. The person must remain on the mouth-piece for the entire test, since any room air entering the system invalidates the testresults. The CO 
2 
 absorbent must be adequate or the CO 
2 
 production will simply
replace the oxygen uptake and reduce the measured oxygen uptake. The problemwith the CO 
2 
 absorbent may be particularly true at high metabolic rates, as it may
not be able to keep pace with the respiratory CO 
2 
 output. Inadequate CO 
2 
 absorbent
will also increase respiration and reduce any exercise performance. Temperature ofthe gas affects the volume in the spirometer and since expired air is at a highertemperature than inspired air, metabolic rate could be underestimated. Finally, thespirometer must have the capacity to hold a large volume of oxygen for exercisemeasures. For example, a person completing a 30-minute exercise session may use40–90 liters of oxygen. This requires a very large spirometer. Finally, this methoddoes not allow for the determination of the source of the energy, e.g., fats andcarbohydrates. These limitations, coupled with the cumbersome size of the equip-ment and the proximity the subject has to be to the equipment, limits the use ofclosed-circuit spirometry for exercise studies. 
FIGURE 5.1 
Schematic of the closed circuit system for measuring energy expenditure. 
7950_C005.fm  Page 130  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

 
Energy Expenditure of Athletes 
131 
2. Open Circuit Spirometry  
The open-circuit system of indirect calorimetry does not permit subjects to re-breathe
their own puriﬁed air (Figure 5.2). Instead, subjects inhale room air and exhale theirexpired gases back into the ambient air. During the exhalation process the gasestravel through a system that measures the volume of air and the expired O 
2 
 and CO 
2 
content of that air. 
2–4 
 The difference between inspired and expired volumes of O 
2 
 is
the VO 
2 
. 
Variations of open-circuit systems include: (1) a bag system, (2) computerized
system, and (3) a portable system. 
5  
In all three, the subject breathes through a mask
or breathing valve that forces the expired air to be directed through into a largeballoon, or through a tube and the O 
2 
 and CO 
2 
 is determined using gas analyzers.
To measure total air volumes, all three types contain an instrument, either a turbine,pneumotach, or gas meter. The bag system collects the volume of expired air in alarge meteorological balloon or a standard rubberized Douglas Bag. 
4 
 The contents
of the bag are measured for gas volume and concentrations (%) of O 
2 
 and CO 
2 
. 
Values for gas volume and expired air are used to calculate oxygen uptake
(Table 5.1). The gas volume is ﬁrst corrected for temperature and water vapor (V 
E 
and STPD). STPD corrects the volume  
from 
 the ambient conditions  
to 
 0 
° 
C, 760
mmHg (1 atmosphere), and 0% relative humidity (water vapor tension). This cor-rection factor is used so that the measurements obtained on Mt. Everest can becompared with measurements obtained at, or below, sea level. The inspired gasvolume is then computed from the expired volume (V 
E, 
STPD) and the expired
oxygen F 
E 
O 
2 
 and carbon dioxide F 
E 
CO 
2 
 concentration using the Haldane conver-
sion. 
5 
 All these values are inserted into the formulas and VO 
2 
 and carbon dioxide
production (VCO 
2 
) are computed. A computerized system uses a similar metering
system (F 
E 
O 
2 
, F 
E 
CO 
2 
, and ventilation), but takes an electrical signal from the meters
and computes the VO 
2 
. 
4  
The computerized system has the advantage of using instru-
ments with much faster response times, so that VO 
2 
 can be computed on a breath-
by-breath basis. In contrast, the Douglas Bag system usually measures VO2 in larger
increments (30 seconds up to 10 minutes) and cannot measure breath-by-breath. 
FIGURE 5.2 Schematic for the Open Circuit system for measuring breath-by-breath energy
expenditure (bold arrows) and minute-by-minute averaging (dotted line).
7950_C005.fm  Page 131  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

132 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
Modern technology and microprocessors have resulted in miniaturizing the
computerized systems to the point that entire metabolic systems weigh less than 1
kilogram and can be worn on the back or abdomen; thus giving the athlete freedomof movement. These lightweight systems, usually less than 3% of an adult’s oradolescent’s weight, do not dramatically inﬂuence energy expenditure. Thus, theyprovide a fairly accurate representation of the energy expenditure. Portable meta-bolic/VO
2 systems have provided a wealth of information on the energy expenditures
of physical activities and improved our understanding of athletes in action.9–17 These
breath-by-breath metabolic systems also measure heart rates, making them ideal forendurance athletes attempting to determine their anaerobic thresholds and for esti-mating the intensities of their workouts. Many of these systems also contain atelemetry system, so that realtime data can be obtained during workouts or compe-titions. The systems can be set up inside a track and obtain the information with theathlete running unencumbered at his/her own pace, or set up in a car to measuremetabolic rates of a cyclist pedaling on the roads. The major drawback of thesesystems is the high cost ( ∼$30,000 US).
 Closed circuit systems use a standard energy equivalent regardless of the source
of the energy (carbohydrates or fats). In reality, fats use more O
2 to produce energy
than carbohydrates: 213 mLO2/kcal vs. 198 mLO2/kcal.18,19 In addition, fats produce
more CO2 than carbohydrates. Thus, knowing the amount of VCO2 with respect to
VO2 gives an indication of the speciﬁc source of the energy, whether fats or carbohy-
drates. All open-circuit methods for computing energy expenditure rely on this axiom.The ratio of VCO
2 to VO2 uptake is called the  respiratory exchange ratio  (RER),
respiratory quotient (RQ), or simply the R value.2–4 Knowing the RER, one can consult
standard tables and determine the non-protein energy production per liter of O2 and
insert that value into the equations to determine energy expenditure (Table 5.1).19 
The RER does not take protein metabolism for energy into consideration; there-
fore, it is sometimes referred to as the non-protein RER.2,4 The RER for carbohydrate
is 1.0 and the reaction can be summarized by the following equation: 
C6H12O6 + 6O2 → 6CO2 + 6 H2O + energy. 
Thus, the oxidation of a single glucose molecule to produce energy requires six O2
molecules and produces six CO2 molecules, or a ratio of 6/6 (CO2/O2) or 1.0.
Conversely, the oxidation of fatty acids results in an RER of ∼0.70. For example, 1
molecule of palmitic acid, a typical fatty acid used for energy, requires 23 O2
molecules and produces 16 CO2 molecules (16/23 = 0.696). Therefore, as the com-
position of the energy-producing substrate changes from fat to glucose the RERchanges from 0.7 to 1.0. An individual consuming a 50/50 mixture of carbohydratesand fats has an RER of 0.85. The RER relates to kcal production per liter ofoxygen.
18,19 Carbohydrates produce 5.047 kcal/liter (21 kJ/L) of oxygen uptake,
while fats produce only 4.686 kcal/liter (19.6 kJ/L) of VO2. So an athlete using 100
liters of oxygen for an activity and  a 50/50 mixture of carbohydrates and fats willutilize approximately 486 kcal (2036 kJ) of energy: 
(50 LO
2 × 4.686 kcal/L) + (50 LO2 × 5.047 kcal/L).7950_C005.fm  Page 132  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 133
Using open-circuit spirometry to measure energy expenditure requires that the
person reach a steady state, because the VCO2 and VO2 represent only substrate
utilization during this time. During steady-state exercise, the VCO2 is usually less
than the VO2, so the RER is always ≤ 1.0. However, any activity that produces
considerable lactic acid (H+) will increase VCO2 disproportionate to the oxygen
uptake (H+ + HCO3– → H2O + CO2).2–4 Therefore, open-circuit spirometry cannot
be used to measure energy expenditure during high-intensity anaerobic activities or
in activities that are of insufﬁcient duration to obtain steady state. Also, someindividuals who are uncomfortable with the equipment or perceive the exercisetesting as stressful tend to hyperventilate; which increases CO
2 output but does not
inﬂuence O2 uptake. In these situations, RER would not be a true representation of
substrate utilization. These are the major limitations of indirect calorimetry.
The VO2 computed from the standard formulas is expressed in units of liters per
minute (L/min). This is considered the absolute  VO2, which is the measure used to
obtain overall energy expenditure. Individuals with large muscle masses have largerabsolute VO
2s than individuals with smaller muscle masses. That is because muscle
mass is the major metabolically active tissue. Oxygen uptake can also be expressedtaking into consideration body mass: milliliters of O
2 per kilogram body weight per
minute (mL/kg/min). This is considered the relative VO2. The unit of mL/kg/min is
commonly used when trying to compare individuals of differing sizes. 
Decades ago D.B. Dill proposed a system of expressing energy expenditure in
increments of resting metabolic rate.20 This proposal has taken root and is the origin
of the metabolic equivalent or the MET.  Research has suggested, but never veriﬁed,
that an oxygen uptake of 3.5 mL/kg/min or 1 kcal/kg/hr is one MET.5,21 The MET
is commonly used in clinical exercise testing or epidemiological research. Becauseof the imprecise nature of the MET, its use to represent metabolic rate of athletesis not recommended. 
C. D OUBLY  LABELED  WATER 
The calorimetry methods described thus far have limitations. Some methods restrictmovements and would not be useful for exercise. Others methods are useful forrelatively short periods of time (minutes) or are stationary, thus limiting their utilityfor athletics. None of the methods can measure energy expenditure during anaerobicexercise (very high intensities), because such activities cannot attain steady-state andCO
2 output can exceed VO2, producing RER greater than 1.0. To overcome these
problems, a technique using doubly labeled water has been developed.22–25 Doubly
labeled water is an isotope that has both the hydrogen and oxygen elements “tagged”;
2H218O. The hydrogen and some of the oxygen ions from the doubly labeled water
are eliminated as part of the water molecule in the urine, while additional O2 is
exhaled as part of the CO2 molecule. Since the same amount of oxygen is eliminated
as water and CO2, simply measuring the hydrogen and oxygen isotope in the body’s
water can be used to determine the CO2 production.25 Energy expenditure is then
computed from daily CO2 output and isotope turnover in the urine (high-precision
mass spectrometry), knowing total body water. The overall error of this method for5–7 days of energy expenditure is about 6%.
25 The subject simply consumes a dose7950_C005.fm  Page 133  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

134 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
of the labeled water and goes about his/her activities for a period of 5–7 days. The
major problem with doubly labeled water is expense; equipment to measure theisotope and total body water and the dosages of 
2H218O is very costly. Differences in
the quality of the isotope exist between producers, which can also lead to errors.Although doubly labeled water is good for estimating overall energy expenditure formultiple days, it is not useful to determine energy expenditure for speciﬁc activities,for determining maximal capacity, or economy. The technique has limited use forathletes, except in cases when knowledge of energy balance is needed.
III. ENERGY DURING SPORT AND PHYSICAL ACTIVITY
A. U SE OF OPEN CIRCUIT  TECHNOLOGY
Energy expenditure during activity is usually measured by open-circuit spirometry.As previously mentioned, a computerized system appears to work best. Some ofthese systems are stationary and will work only with activities in which the partic-ipant strays little from the measurement device. Such systems have been used tomeasure energy cost of walking and running on treadmills, cycling on cycle ergo-meters, swimming using a swimming ergometer or swimming ﬂume, rowing usinga rowing ergometer, stair stepping using an escalator-type or step ergometer, or armcranking using an arm ergometer. 
The bag technique of open-circuit spirometry has been used to measure VO
2
during ergometry work, as well as during actual cycling, swimming, rope skipping,or household chores. Typically, activities are completed in a conﬁned space. The bagmethod gives average responses over a period of time, usually 1–10 minutes depend-ing upon the intensity of the activity and the size of the bag. This method is notcapable of giving breath-to-breath VO
2. Since the expired air bag is connected to the
subject by a breathing tube, this technique requires that the researcher move with thesubject, yet not impede any subject movements. In addition, the subject usually hasto wear a mouthpiece and support the breathing tube during the collection period.The weight of the breathing tubing, breathing valve, and mouthpiece can be uncom-fortable for the subject or cause additional effort to support the apparatus and maintainthe mouthpiece in the mouth. Finally, the bags are not totally impermeable to gasexchange. Therefore, if a bag is used for a prolonged period of time, longer than10–15 minutes, gases may diffuse in or out, dependent upon the concentration gra-dient, and the results can be unreliable. Therefore, bag measurements are usuallytaken over periods of time lasting less than 10 minutes and the contents measured asquickly as possible at the end of the collection period. The bag method can be usedsuccessfully, but takes preparation, training, and good timing to obtain accurate data.
4,5 
The use of miniaturized portable systems has revolutionized our ability to obtain
energy expenditure data during activities. The new systems are sufﬁciently small tobe worn during activity, providing little impairment of motion and little additionalweight. The systems have been used to measure energy expenditure of householdchores, basketball, tennis, road cycling, and kayaking, to name a few. Some of thesesystems include good-sized memory or telemetry systems, which allows for obtain-ing real-time data without being tethered to the subject. 7950_C005.fm  Page 134  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 135
Although these systems have proven to be accurate, there are some minor problems.
The additional weight of the apparatus, usually about 1 kg, can increase the energy cost
of the activities. The impact of the additional weight on an adult is negligible, since thesystem’s weight may only represent <2% of the body weight; however, for a child, theweight of the system can have a signiﬁcant impact on the energy cost of the activity.It is also important that the systems be securely attached to the subject. If not, the systemcan impede motion, which will modify the energy cost. To measured expired gases,most of these systems require that the subject wear a mask, rather than the cumbersomebreathing valve and mouthpiece. An improperly ﬁtting mask can result in air leaks thatcan modify both the measured volume of air and the fractions of expired gases. Expe-rience has also shown that the systems may lose their ability to function via telemetryif they are near an electric ﬁeld such as a video display. Proper consideration andplanning can eliminate these problems and allow the investigator to obtain accurate data.
B. U SE OF HEART RATE TO ESTIMATE  ENERGY  EXPENDITURE
Metabolic equipment is costly, requires considerable training to use properly, andis difﬁcult to use for many sports activities. Thus coaches, athletes, and clinicianshave used indirect methods, such as heart rate monitors, to estimate energy expen-diture. Heart rates have the potential to provide information on the pattern of activityas well as the energy expenditure,
26 but their use to estimate of energy expenditure
requires planning and calibration. The athlete must undergo testing to determine theresting and maximal heart rates, and the heart rate/energy expenditure relationship.Usually this is accomplished by using an ergometer to establish the work, a spirom-etry system to measure the oxygen uptake, and a heart rate monitor. Once therelationship between the heart rate and metabolic rate are known, the athlete wearsa heart rate monitor for his/her workout or competition. The heart rate informationis downloaded to a computer and then averaged in 1- to 15-minute time segments.The energy expenditure during each time-segment is estimated by using the previ-ously determined energy expenditure/heart rate relationship. 
The major problem with this method is that not all changes in heart rate are related
to metabolic activity.
26–28 Emotional stress and body temperature are known to affect
heart rate, independent of metabolism. Therefore, some coaches and clinicians believethat heart rates below 120 cannot reliably determine energy expenditure.
28 Also, heart
rate is indicative of metabolic rate only during steady-state. Thus, heart rates cannot beused to estimate energy expenditure during anaerobic activities, or activities with anisometric component in which heart rates are elevated above metabolic rate. Finally,the heart rate may not be sufﬁciently sensitive to respond to short-term activities.
28
Therefore, using heart rates to estimate metabolic rate has limited practicality. However,heart rate can be used to estimate minutes of moderate- to hard-intensity activities.
28 
IV. ERGOMETERS
To facilitate the measurement of metabolic rate for some sports, ergometers or spe-cialized machines have been developed to mimic the actions of the sport. Most ergo-meters are designed to control the amount of effort, resistance, or speed. Some of the7950_C005.fm  Page 135  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

136 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
more sophisticated ergometers can control work and power output regardless of
speeds. The four most common ergometers are cycle ergometers, rowing ergometers,treadmills, and cross country ski machines. Cycle ergometers have been used inresearch since the very early 1900s and have been employed for training cyclistsfor the past 40–50 years. Rowing ergometers, which are relatively new, were actuallya development of the ﬁtness industry. Cross-country ski machines were popular inthe 1980s and 1990s and can be used as an adjunct to training competitive skiersfrom countries with limited winter facilities. Treadmills were ﬁrst used in researchsettings in the 1940s and quickly were used by competitive runners for training. Theproblem with treadmills, cycle ergometers, and cross-country ski machines is thatthey eliminate air resistance. Similarly, swimming and rowing ergometers eliminatewater resistance (drag forces, frontal resistance, and skin or surface friction).
29 Water
resistance is considerable; therefore, the use of these ergometers may underestimatethe true energy expenditure with these activities.
A. C YCLE ERGOMETERS
Several types of cycle ergometers are used for physiological testing in athletes. Theyprovide critical information regarding anaerobic and aerobic power. There are twogeneral designs of cycle ergometers: upright and recumbent. Upright models areused more frequently in exercise testing as they mimic the position of real cycling.Furthermore, these ergometers can be ﬁtted with clipless pedals and competitive-style handlebars and seat to further imitate competitive cycling. Recumbent bikes,on the other hand, put the legs in a more horizontal position relative to the trunk,and therefore decrease blood pooling in the legs. Recumbent cycles also reduce theactive muscle mass during pedaling, so the cyclist cannot sustain high work rates.
30
The low position of the cyclist in the recumbent cycle improves the comfort, butdecreases the cyclist’s maximal aerobic power.
30 Recumbent cycles are more fre-
quently used in ﬁtness and rehab situations than for evaluating athletes.  
The workload of a cycle ergometer is controlled by the pedal rate, resistance,
or type of brake placement on the ﬂywheel. A common brake method is directfriction applied via a strap placed around the ﬂywheel. The workload of the friction-braked design changes with alterations in pedaling rate.
31 Thus, friction cycles
require knowledge of the resistance and pedal rate to determine the amount ofresistance. The resistance or brakes may also be controlled electronically or elec-tromagnetically. The advent of micro-processors and the use of these types of brakesprovide a constant workload regardless of pedaling rate.  
Work and power output on cycle ergometers can be expressed in different terms.
Most manual-braked, friction-style ergometers apply resistance in terms of kiloponds(kp), or the amount of friction/resistance applied by a kilogram mass. The amountof work is then based on the pedal frequency, the distance theoretically traveled witheach rotation of the pedals, and the kps of resistance. Therefore, if pedaling at 60 rpmwith 2 kp of resistance, and the distance traveled is 6 m/revolution, the amount ofwork would be 720 kpm (2 kp × 60 rpm × 6 m/rev). Work on the ergometers has
also been expressed in terms of Newton meters or joules, but this is less frequentlyused. Power, or work per unit of time, is typically expressed in watts. However, in7950_C005.fm  Page 136  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 137
terms of ergometry, no limitation on time is inferred.32 Watts can be obtained from
kpm by simply dividing by 6.12 w/kgm/min. So using the above example, the cyclist
would be working at a power output of 118 watts (720 kgm / 6.12 w/kgm).
Oxygen uptake can also be inferred from knowing the work rate in kgm, since
there is about 2 mLO2/kgm.33 For example, an adult cycling at 720 kgm would be
using about 1440 mL (1.44 L) O2 per minute for the exercise (2 mL/kgm × 720
kgm). That would be the VO2 required for the work only. To obtain the gross (overall)
VO2, a constant for resting VO2 needs to be added. That amounts to approximately
300 mL of VO2 for an adult. Therefore, the total VO2 for the above example would
be approximately 1740 mL O2 per minute.
The cycle ergometer is often used to assess anaerobic power, submaximal power
and maximal aerobic power. The protocols differ according to the purpose of thetest. Tests of anaerobic power are typically very short in duration, 30 seconds orless, and require all-out, supramaximal effort by the rider, using resistance based on
body mass.
34 Measures of power are obtained and reported in watts. These measures
are commonly classiﬁed as peak, mean, maximal, and minimum power in absolute
terms, and they may also be expressed relative to one’s body mass. A plot ofdecrements in power is often created, and is a useful measure of the rate of fatigue.On this plot, time is on the x-axis and power is on the y-axis. The slope of the lineindicates the rate at which power dropped during the maximal effort. 
Submaximal protocols on the cycle ergometer are often utilized to predict
VO
2max. Common submaximal tests include the Astrand-Rhyming, PWC170 and
YMCA protocols.35,36 While the stage lengths and loads differ, all submaximal
protocols involve gradual increases in workload and terminate prior to the attainmentof maximal aerobic power. Submaximal VO
2 or HR responses at each workload are
entered into prediction equations or nomograms to determine predicted VO2max.
Moderate to strong correlations have been found between predicted VO2max from
submaximal tests and VO2max measured via maximal testing.35 
Protocols to assess maximal aerobic power on a cycle ergometer typically involve
incremental tests with gradual increases in workload at a given pedal rate. Thestarting workload is selected based on the subject’s body mass and ﬁtness level.Normally, these tests last 8 to 15 minutes in duration.
31 To determine the effect of
increment length, researchers compared the four exercise protocols.37 The rate of
increase for the workload (watts/stage) was the same for all protocols, however, thelength of the increments differed (ramp/continuous increase, 1-, 2-, and 3-minutestages). There were no signiﬁcant differences between protocols for VO
2max.37 This
suggests that when the increase in work rate is held constant, the length of the stagedoes not affect the physiological response to exercise.
 37
Recent developments in computers and electronics have led to the development
of small ﬂywheels that can be used with a standard bicycle. The rear wheel of thebicycle is mounted on a stand and the ﬂywheel is attached to the rear wheel. Theﬂywheel is electronically or manually braked, so that the resistance can be adjustedmoment-by-moment. Computer programs have been developed that allow a cyclistto simulate speciﬁc competitive courses, race distances, ﬂat courses, mountainouscourses, or ﬁtness tests, thus providing the cyclist with a “virtual environment” fortraining. These types of ergometers are much more interesting and fun for the7950_C005.fm  Page 137  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

138 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
competitive cyclist. Some of these ergometers also have an attachment to monitor
heart rate and are capable of using that heart rate to determine the amount ofresistance.
B. R OWING  ERGOMETERS
Rowing  ergometers are designed to mimic the actions of rowing in water while on
land. They consist of four parts: a ﬂywheel, a dampening or brake mechanism, apulley attached to a handle, and an instrument to quantify speed and power. Theﬂywheel spins at a rate proportional to the strength of the pull; it continues to spinand stores potential energy between pulls. The dampening mechanism is attachedto the ﬂywheel and provides friction designed to simulate the friction between thewater and the boat. In a rowing ergometer, friction is normally applied to the ﬂywheelusing air, a weighted belt, or water as resistance. The pulley and handle are attachedto the ﬂywheel and are controlled by the operator, similar to oars in the water. Finally,the speed and power monitor measure the rate of ﬂywheel turnover and the forceapplied to the pulley via a strain gauge. 
The two major types of rowing ergometers are static and dynamic. In static
ergometers, also referred to as stationary or ﬁxed power heads, the ﬂywheel is ﬁxedand the rower moves his or her body back and forth via a seat sliding on a rail. Incontrast, the ﬂywheel on a dynamic ergometer, also called a ﬂoating power head, ismounted on the rail and therefore moves in unison with the rower. The latter modelis thought to represent more realistic motions of rowing in water. A study comparingﬁxed to ﬂoating designs found that power per stroke and total work did not differbetween the models, despite some biomechanical differences
38 
Regardless of the model, rowing ergometers are designed to reproduce the four
major components of a rowing stroke: catch, drive, ﬁnish and recovery. While theindividual performs these actions in a continuous pattern, several variables arecalculated for each stroke. Two common variables of interest are power and work.Power (P) is calculated by dividing the energy (E) by time (t) taken to complete thestroke (P = E/t) and is expressed in watts. Work (W) is then calculated by dividing
power by time (W = P/t), and is expressed in joules (1 watt = 1 joule/sec).
8 
Coaches and clinicians use rowing ergometers to test athletic ability and to
determine the effectiveness of training.39 Several protocols have been used to assess
aerobic capacity on the rowing ergometer. Three common protocols are a continuousmaximal test, a continuous incremental test, and a discontinuous incremental test.Continuous maximal tests or “all-out” tests on a rowing ergometer typically last ∼6
minutes, as this time period corresponds closely to a race of 2000 meters.
39 This
protocol is favored by some as it simulates true racing conditions. Similarly, thetime to complete 2000 m is often measured. High test–retest correlations have beenfound (r = 0.96) for this method,
40 highlighting its reliability for monitoring progress
in athletes.  
A continuous incremental test, or progressive exercise test, uses gradual
increases in exercise intensity until the individual can no longer continue. Thisallows for the identiﬁcation of anaerobic threshold, VO
2max and examination of the
intensity-related rises in cardiovascular, ventilatory, and metabolic parameters.397950_C005.fm  Page 138  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 139
Finally, dis continuous incremental protocols also involve gradual increases in work-
load until fatigue, but the individual takes short breaks between each increase. This
allows for easy obtainment of blood samples during the rest periods. As a result,clinicians often measure blood lactate levels and are able to identify the lactatethreshold during this protocol.
Anaerobic power is another important component of rowing performance. It is
quantiﬁed on the rowing ergometer using tests of maximal effort sprints of shortduration. Using a 30-second test, researchers found strong correlations (r = −0.85
to −0.89) between power (mean, maximal, and minimal) and performance on a 2000-
meter rowing competition.
41 In this investigation, peak power accounted for ∼76%
of the variance in rowing time, demonstrating the importance of this anaerobic phase.  
C. T READMILLS
The treadmill allows the subject to walk or run at speciﬁc speeds while maintaininga central location. Thus, the subject is easily attached to the spirometry system.Although the treadmill simulates ambulation, it is not quite the same as normalwalking or running. Studies have shown that there are differences in air resistancebetween treadmill and normal ambulation that may decrease the energy cost ofambulation on treadmill.
42,43 
Motorized treadmills are used frequently for exercise testing and training. The
workload is controlled through alterations in speed or grade. Typically, treadmillscan reach maximal speeds of 12 miles per hour (19 kpm) and 25% grade. Whenexercising on a treadmill, the athlete must support and transport his or her own bodyweight, which subsequently inﬂuences the workload. Thus, exercise on a treadmillhas been called “weight dependent.” Depending upon the model and size of the belt,treadmill can accommodate individuals weighing up to 450 pounds (>200 kg). Thedimensions of treadmill belts vary; normal widths range from 16 to 22 inches, withlengths of 45 to 60 inches. These dimensions are important when selecting a treadmillto accommodate a tall person, someone with a long stride length, or an obese person.Athletes who run at high speeds appreciate the larger-sized treadmill. Also, somemodels have side or front handrails, which are an added safety feature. Sometreadmills can measure heart rate using a sensor located on the front rail that doesnot require placement of a heart rate monitor on the chest. Users place their handsaround the sensor for several seconds, a task that may be difﬁcult during a run orhigh-velocity walk. Treadmills are often used in conjunction with a metabolic sys-tem. However, treadmills are space-consuming and difﬁcult to transport. In addition,the sizes of the treadmills needed to accommodate athletes are costly.
D. C ROSS-COUNTRY  SKI ERGOMETERS
Cross-country ski ergometers are a popular mode for low-impact aerobic exercise.The user stands on two sliding components that simulate the gliding motion of cross-country skis and the alternating arm motion of poling. Arm motion is coordinatedto the opposite leg using the corresponding handle and pulley mechanism. Thiscauses the arms to move similarly to cross-country skiing. The intensity of exercise7950_C005.fm  Page 139  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

140 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
is controlled through variations in elevation and ﬂywheel resistance providing the
resistance to leg and arm motions. The resistance for the arm and leg componentscan be set independently, which allows for workload to be customized.  Since thereappears to be no standardized testing protocols using these ergometers, they seemto be used more for training than testing. 
V. METABOLIC RATE DURING SWIMMING
Obtaining metabolic information during swimming is difﬁcult, since the swimmermoves up and down the pool with ﬂip turns and spends time underwater. Also, theuse of electricity around water presents a deﬁnite risk to the swimmer. Thus, anymetabolic system used in this setting must be portable. Four approaches have beenused to obtain metabolic data during swimming: a stationary swimming ergometer,a swimming ﬂume, a circular pool to avoid the problems with turns, and backwardextrapolation at the end of the swim. The swimming ergometer (Figure 5.3) hasbeen used for quite some time.
44,45 The swimmer is ﬁtted with a belt, with wires
extending back from each side of the swimmer well beyond the length of his or herlegs. The wires are kept separate by a ﬂoating dowel or bar. A cable extends fromthat bar through a pulley at water level that redirects the cable upward and aroundanother ﬁxed pulley stationed above the swimmer. A weight is suspended from thefree end of the cable. The concept is that the swimmer swims sufﬁciently hard tokeep the weight suspended. More or less weight can be added or subtracted to makethe swimmer work harder or easier. Since the swimmer is now fairly stationary, abreathing tube can be extended to capture expired gases, and VO
2 can be computed
using a standard metabolic system stationed on the pool deck. The system workswell, but it does change the body position and dynamics of the swimmer, makingthe person kick harder than normal to maintain alignment.
FIGURE 5.3 Schematic of the side and top view of a swimming ergometer.
7950_C005.fm  Page 140  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 141
The swimming ﬂume has also been available since the early 1970s.46 The ﬂume
recycles a current of water past the swimmer at a speciﬁc velocity and the swimmer
once again tries to maintain a stationary position in the small tank. Since the swimmeris fairly stationary, metabolic measures are obtained similar to the swimming ergo-meter. The swim ﬂume allows swimmers to use their natural swimming stroke in amore natural position than the swim ergometer would. However, swimming ﬂumesare very expensive, beyond the budgets of many athletic facilities.
Circular pools have been used in which the swimmer simply swims continuously
around the pool. The metabolic system is housed on a central platform inside thecircular pool. An arm with a breathing tube extends to the swimmer, similar to theswim ergometer. Pace can be set by an auditory signal or by lights situated on thebottom of the pool. Like the swim ergometer, the connection of the breathing tubeto the mouth changes the body position of the swimmer, except when swimmingbreaststroke. Also, since the swimmer is always circling, there is greater use of one
side of the body than the other, so the swim stroke is not normal. These circular
pools are very expensive, but have been used successfully to obtain metabolic data.
47
Swimming usually requires the participant to traverse the length of the pool,
using underwater, or ﬂip turns at each end to change direction. Metabolic systemscapable of measuring these actions are presently not available. Also, the use of anybreathing apparatus during swimming changes the body position in the water andhead rotation, increasing resistance and drag forces and increasing energy expendi-ture at a given speed. To overcome these problems, practitioners and researchershave used a backward extrapolation method.
48,49 This method uses standard open-
circuit spirometry. In this method, the swimmer usually swims 200–400 meters. Atthe completion of the swim a stopwatch is started and as quickly as possible thebreathing mask or mouthpiece from the spirometry system is placed on the face (orin the mouth).VO
2 is then measured for three 20-second periods.VO2 can then be
computed using the ﬁrst 20-second measure (VO2m) and the formula: 
VO2(L/min) = (0.916 × VO2m) + 0.426. 
The result can be converted to kcal using the following formula: 
kcal/min = VO2 (L/min) × 4.86 Kcal/L. 
Alternatively a curve can be constructed from the three 20-second VO2 measures
and extrapolated backward to what the VO2 would have been during the last minute
of swimming. 
Speciﬁcity of testing mode is important when testing in athletes. The same
individual may have signiﬁcantly different responses to an exercise test, dependingon the apparatus on which it was conducted. The maximal aerobic power measuredon a treadmill is often greater than that measured on a cycle ergometer.
50–53 During
treadmill exercise, athletes transport their body mass and have a greater amount ofactive muscle mass compared with cycling, during which body mass is supportedby the bike seat. In a comparison of treadmill and bike protocols, Faulkner et al.
51
attributed the higher treadmill VO2max to a larger stroke volume and greater muscle7950_C005.fm  Page 141  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

142 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
mass in use. A comparison of cardiovascular responses during graded exercise test
on a treadmill with rowing demonstrated that the HR during the treadmill test wasgreater than during rowing for a given lactate level, while the VO
2max during rowing
was greater than on the treadmill.54 The authors attributed these differences to posture
and increased venous return during rowing. Finally, greater maximal aerobic powerhas been seen during treadmill tests than in swimming.
50 Interestingly, when trained
swimmers completed a maximal test during cycling and swimming, higher valueswere attained during swimming.
55 Triathletes, on the other hand, had higher maximal
aerobic power during the cycling test than in swimming.55 This demonstrates the
importance of considering the athlete’s training when selecting the testing mode. 
VI. MAXIMAL METABOLIC RATE
Maximal metabolic rate is also referred to as maximal aerobic capacity, maximalaerobic power, or VO
2max. VO2max is dependent upon the physiologic systems, the
respiratory, cardiovascular, and muscle metabolic systems, acting in consort to pro-duce work. A problem in any of the three systems can limit VO
2max. For example,
a person with emphysema cannot get oxygen into the blood, thus limiting oxygen
availably for energy production in the muscle. A person who has had a heart attackcan usually get the oxygen into the blood (respiratory system), but has the reducedcapacity to pump the blood to the muscles; thus, also limiting oxygen availably forenergy production in the muscle. Sedentary, untrained individuals usually havelimited capacities in all three physiologic systems, which compromises VO
2max
compared with highly trained endurance athletes. 
Because VO2max is commonly expressed per kilogram body weight (ml/kg/min),
it can be used to compare a variety of different-sized individuals. VO2max is also
expressed in absolute terms (Liters/minute), but it is harder to compare individual
of differing sizes, because higher absolute VO2max levels can simply reﬂect a larger
muscle mass. Generally, large individuals have higher VO2max expressed in L/min
than smaller individuals because of the muscle mass, but have lower values forVO
2max when expressed per kilogram body mass. For example, a football player may
weigh 300 pounds (136 kg) and have 20% body fat. His VO2max expressed per
LO2/min may be 5 L/min, which is extremely high. Yet when expressed per unit
body mass, his VO2max would only be 36.8 mL/kg/min, similar to a sedentary adult.
The reason a larger individual has lower VO2max when expressed per kilogram body
mass, is that larger individuals have more supporting tissues (bone, tendon, adipose)that are not related to energy output. The reverse is also true; smaller individualshave lower absolute VO
2max, but higher relative VO2max than large individuals. 
To eliminate the inﬂuence of fat mass, some researchers have suggested expressing
VO2max per unit of fat free mass (ml/kgFFM/min). This method has been used, for
example, to evaluate the validity of true gender differences in VO2max, because women
are genetically endowed to have more fat mass than men.56 In general, the higher the
VO2max, expressed as either mL/kg/min or ml/kgFFM/min, the more work that can be
performed aerobically. For example, a person with a VO2max of 40 ml/kg/min has the
capacity to run at about 7 mph, whereas an individual with the capacity of 60 ml/kg/mincan run at 10.5 mph.
57 The advantage of a high VO2max to an endurance athlete is obvious.7950_C005.fm  Page 142  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 143
Maximal aerobic capacity is inﬂuenced by a number of factors. VO2max generally
declines with age. Hence, children have higher VO2max per kilogram of body mass
than adults, due in some part to the ration of their size to muscle mass, or the inactive
lifestyle of adults having reduced physiologic mechanisms.58 Adult men usually have
greater capacities than women. The normal range for weight-adjusted VO2max is about
40–45 ml/kg/min for men and 35–40 ml/kg/min for women.59 These gender differ-
ences may be related to body composition or hemoglobin concentrations. Women
have greater fat mass than men, which contributes to overall energy demands duringexercise, but not to energy production. If body fat content is removed from theequation, differences between men and women are signiﬁcantly reduced.
56 Circu-
lating hemoglobin concentration of men is about 10–20% higher than women’s,increasing men’s ability to get oxygen to the muscle. Figure 5.4 presents estimatedranges of VO
2max for highly trained male athletes based on a compilation of values
seen in the literature and what we have measured here at the University of North
Carolina. Highly conditioned endurance athletes have aerobic powers above 55
ml/kg/min, upwards to over 80 ml/kg/min.60 The higher aerobic capacities of these
individuals may be related to genetics, which has endowed these individuals withhighly developed respiratory, cardiovascular, and metabolic systems, and the plas-ticity of these systems to improve even more through rigorous training. Conversely,the VO
2max of athletes who compete in anaerobic-type sports or resistance training
are usually less than endurance athletes but higher than sedentary individuals.60
FIGURE 5.4 Maximal aerobic power (VO2max) of various populations of elite athletes and
normal adults. These data are for men; women usually have lower values by approximately
10 mL/kg/min.34,52,60,1007950_C005.fm  Page 143  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

144 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
Interestingly, the VO2max of top athletes has not increased over what was reported
in 1960 but endurance performances have improved. Some changes in techniques
have caused improvements in performances, but even so the lack of improvementin VO
2max combined with improvements in sports performance implies that training
is improving other characteristics of endurance athletes such as their anaerobicthreshold or economy of movement, discussed in sections 5.7 and 5.8.
Maximal oxygen uptake is usually obtained by having the person complete some
form of incremental exercise protocol with progressively increasing work intensitiesand simultaneously measuring VO
2 by open-circuit spirometry. A variety of testing
protocols are available, some of which have been described elsewhere.34 In addition,
a variety of ergometers have been utilized to obtain the work (see section 5.4). Insome instances, practitioners have simply used progressive speed while running ona track or swimming in a pool to obtain the work intensities. The mode of exerciseused for the test should be related to the sport of the athlete; the concept of speciﬁcity.For example, a highly trained runner who completes the maximal test on a cycleergometer will have a lower maximal capacity than if the runner used a treadmill
for the test. Likewise, a highly trained swimmer will have a lower VO
2max running
than during a swimming protocol. Therefore, there is no optimal test protocol that
should be used for all athletes. The beginning workloads/speeds should be lowintensity (25–30% VO
2max), to serve as a warm-up. Each successive stage should be
small enough to avoid lactate build-up, which will cause premature fatigue unrelatedto VO
2max. The test should be designed to reach maximal capacity in approximately
10–15 minutes. Shorter tests may be invalid due to lactate build-up and local fatigue.Longer tests could also be invalid because the subject gets bored or localized painensues (back pain during cycling or from running up very steep grades). Also, if theplan is to test and retest the athlete, the same protocol should be used each time.This allows the athlete to directly compare performances. 
VO
2max appears to have limits. Data from the 1960s suggest that the zenith for
VO2max is approximately 85 mL/kg/min.60 More recent data also suggest the same
upper limit.61 However, endurance performances are improving. Athletic equipment
has improved; running shoes are lighter, cycles weigh less, swimming strokes havebeen modiﬁed, and paddles for canoeing and kayaking are more ergometricallydesigned. But these changes do not totally account for performance improvements.Since levels of VO
2max have not increased, endurance training must be inﬂuencing
other factors. Two such factors are anaerobic threshold and economy.62–64 
VII. ANAEROBIC THRESHOLD
The anaerobic threshold marks the transition from aerobic to anaerobic metabolism.In precise terms the anaerobic threshold is determined from measuring blood lactatelevels at various intensities of exercise, with the standard outcome being the workrate, speed, metabolic rate, or heart rate when lactate levels reach 4.0 mmol/L. Inpractical terms, the anaerobic threshold is known as the ventilatory threshold. Thereason for the different terminology is that the lactate threshold is highly correlatedwith the ventilatory threshold, and the ventilatory threshold is easier to measure and7950_C005.fm  Page 144  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 145
does not require blood samples. Other than directly obtaining blood lactate levels
at each progressive stage, the anaerobic threshold is identiﬁed indirectly during theprogressive exercise test using one of the following methods: 
1. Indirectly by a disproportionate rise in V
E relative to VO2 or VCO2
2. A decrease in PETO2 with no change in PETCO2
3. A non-linear increase in VE/VO2 relative to VE/VCO2.65,66 
Above this threshold, the increase in anaerobic metabolism leads to the accumulationof blood lactate and fatigue. Lactate is buffered by HCO
–
3, which leads to an increase
in CO2 production and a state of metabolic acidosis due to the excess H+ remaining.
These changes are illustrated by the following two equations: 
Lactic Acid + Na+ → NaLactate + H+ 
H++HCO–
3 → H2CO3 → H2O + CO2. 
Both the excess H+ and CO2 stimulate the chemoreceptors to increase ventilation
above what is needed for metabolism, with the outcome being that the CO2 is
removed by ventilation. Hence, this is the reason that VCO2 is used as an indirect
marker for lactate production.
Identiﬁcation of the AT is particularly important to endurance athletes. In some
instances, research has shown that the AT can increase without an increase inmaximal capacity.
67,68 Thus, the endurance athlete can improve performance (speed)
by exercising at a higher percentage of VO2max without the deleterious effects of
lactic acid. In fact, most of the literature shows that endurance athletes have anaerobicthresholds well above 75% of VO
2max and possibly as high as 95% of VO2max.5 In
contrast, the AT of sprinters is lower 60–70% of VO2max and college-aged individuals
have AT about 65% of VO2max.5 The mechanisms responsible for this difference
include improved lactate removal and increased mitochondria function and enzymeactivity in trained individuals. These training adaptations lead to improved produc-tion of energy from aerobic sources, permitting the athlete to exercise at a higherintensity before turning to anaerobic energy sources and the concomitant increasein blood lactate levels.
66 As a result, endurance exercise performance may improve
drastically. In contrast, periods of detraining result in a loss of this adaptation, asanaerobic threshold returns to baseline pre-training levels.
65 Knowing one’s anaer-
obic threshold also has important implications for training. Training at a workloadjust below the anaerobic threshold allows athletes to exercise at the highest possibleintensity before lactate accumulation ensues. Since fatigue during this type of train-ing is not related to the build up of lactate, the athlete can exercise longer and receivethe maximal aerobic training effect.
Several methods are used to determine anaerobic threshold. The most common
is through a graded exercise test on a treadmill or cycle ergometer. During the gradedexercise test, the intensity of exercise increases in predetermined intervals by grad-ually increasing the speed and grade on a treadmill or resistance on a cycle ergometer.7950_C005.fm  Page 145  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

146 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
Ventilatory measurements are collected throughout the test and blood lactate mea-
surements may be taken during each stage. The most common method is to ﬁnd thepoint at which V
E increases disproportionately to VO2. The simplest way to identify
this point is to plot VE and VO2 on a graph, with workload on the x-axis and VE/VO2
on the y-axis. The workload that corresponds to the anaerobic threshold is the pointat which the line increases in a nonlinear fashion. When blood lactate levels areobtained, a similar plot with lactate and VO
2 or heart rate can be created. The point
at which blood lactate levels begin to rise in a curvilinear fashion is termed thelactate threshold or onset of blood lactate accumulation (OBLA). A threshold valueof 4.0 mM/L is often identiﬁed, although this value differs from person to person.The AT has been expressed in terms of the absolute VO
2 (L/min), as the percentage
of VO2max at which the AT occurs (relative AT), and practically speaking, in terms
of heart rate at the AT.65,69 For athletes, the AT as related to heart rate has the most
application to their training, since VO2 is not commonly measured during a training
session, but heart rates are easily attainable in all training situations.
To conﬁrm that the correct workload was identiﬁed, a second graded exercise test
is often performed. In this conﬁrmatory test, athletes exercise for equal periods of timeat intensities slightly lower than, equal to, and slightly greater than their anaerobicthreshold. If the anaerobic threshold was correctly identiﬁed, the athlete’s V
E/VO2 and
blood lactate will remain steady at the lower intensity, begin to rise at the intensitycorresponding to the AT and rise drastically during the highest intensity. If the V
E/VO2
and blood lactate fail to rise markedly in any of the three stages, the AT has not been met. 
Another method used to identify AT involves measuring speed during running
and the corresponding heart rate.70 This method is fast, simple, and easy to administer
outside of a laboratory. Using this method, the point at which the speed–heart raterelationship becomes nonlinear is thought to be the AT. A study comparing the ATobtained by this method found strong correlations (r = 0.99) between this deﬂection
in HR and AT measured through blood lactate.
70 However, this method has been
questioned by other researchers who note that this heart rate deﬂection is not alwaysassociated with the lactate threshold.
66
VIII. ECONOMY OF HUMAN MOVEMENT
Economy is related to the energy expenditure to complete a given distance or energyexpenditure to maintain a given speed. An athlete with good economy uses less oxygenat a given submaximal speed, or for a given distance. Economy relates more to prolongedexercise performance, when the maintenance of the lowest VO
2 prolongs glycogen stores,
delaying fatigue. A study using highly trained runners has shown that the oxygen uptakeis lower at a given pace for endurance-trained runners compared with sprinters.
71
Although the authors reported the differences were small (5–11%), this difference inenergy cost can have a cumulative effect for prolonged exercise. McArdle et al. suggestthat variation in running economy in a homogeneous group can explain the majority ofperformance difference in a 10K run.
5 Therefore, knowing economy can be beneﬁcial
for endurance athletes, such as runners, cyclists, swimmers, rowers, and paddlers. 
Economy is related to a number of factors. Gender inﬂuences economy, with
women being less economical during high-speed running.72 Although the reason for7950_C005.fm  Page 146  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 147
the gender differences is not clear, it may be related to differences in body compo-
sition, anatomical biomechanics, or training. An effective muscle recruitment patternimproves economy. The more an athlete reproduces an action, the better the motorpattern is learned and extraneous muscle activity (which costs energy) is eliminated.
73
This is particularly true for activities that involve a skill, such as swimming orpaddling strokes for canoeing and kayaking. Muscle ﬁber type also inﬂuenceseconomy. Type I ﬁbers are more mechanically efﬁcient than type II ﬁbers and aremore efﬁcient for aerobic energy production.
74 Physical structure, e.g., leg length
and upper body size, inﬂuences the number of strides or strokes and activity neededto complete a distance. Typically, more strides, or strokes, cause more energyexpenditure. Equipment can also inﬂuence economy. For example, during cycling,the use of toe clips improves efﬁciency, while standing decreases economy.
75
The major concern with economy is that there are no sport-speciﬁc standards
for comparisons and there is no one “perfect pace,”76 so coaches and athletes typically
use repeated measures of economy to show that training is producing the desiredimprovements. Athletes usually complete a set of exercises at different submaximalvelocities and the oxygen uptake is measured when steady-state is obtained; theoutcome being VO
2 per unit speed.
IX. RESTING ENERGY EXPENDITURE
Knowledge of resting energy expenditure (REE) is most useful for athletes who aretrying to lose or gain weight, since the REE accounts for a major portion of thedaily energy expenditure. Resting energy expenditure is not basal metabolic rate, orBMR. The BMR  is the minimal amount of energy necessary to sustain conscious
life — keep the heart beating, maintain respiration, cell metabolism, nerve trans-mission, body temperature, etc. The BMR requires that the person have no additionalphysiologic or psychologic stimulation, such as digestion, excess temperature reg-ulation, psychological tension, or any form of movement.
77 BMR is measured in the
supine resting position, after a normal night’s sleep, and 12 hours postprandial.77
REE is the energy expenditure required to maintain normal body functions at rest.3,5
The REE is typically measured in the morning, after a normal night’s sleep, withthe individual lying down or sitting, in a thermo-neutral environment, after a mini-mum of 3 hours’ fast, and no exercise for the previous 12 hours. Since the two statesare relatively close in deﬁnition, and since the difference between the BMR and theREE is less than 10%, both terms appear to be used interchangeably.
78 And, if the
REE is measured in a 12-hour post absorptive condition, it is the same as BMR.3
The BMR is difﬁcult to precisely measure and requires more controls than the REE.Thus, the REE is usually obtained. BMR and REE are generally expressed askilocalories per hour (kcal/h) or kiloJoules per hour (kJ/h). The rate varies as muchas ±20% from individual to individual.
5,7 
A. M EASUREMENT  OF RESTING  ENERGY  EXPENDITURE
All calorimetry methods can be used to measure REE. The procedure for REEinvolves obtaining two 5–7-minute continuous measures of VO
2 and VCO2, or one7950_C005.fm  Page 147  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

148 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
single 15-minute collection period with the ﬁrst 5 minutes of measurement dis-
carded.77 The person reclines in a supine position for 30–45 minutes in a quiet,
thermo-neutral environment. To reduce anxiety caused by the equipment, the maskor mouthpiece from the spirometry system is inserted so that the subject becomescomfortable breathing through the apparatus. At the end of the rest period themeasurements are obtained. The measurement of BMR is more restrictive to reduceanxiety and the gas measurements are obtained with the subject inside a transparenthood or a room calorimeter.
3,77 Also, the BMR is typically measured over a 20–30-
minute period rather than the two 5–7-minute measurements.77
Since REE takes considerable equipment, time, and knowledge, methods have
been derived to estimate REE based on weight (body mass), height, and age. Adultmales will use 1.0 kcal/kg/h or 4.186 kJ/kg/h, while females will use 0.9 kcal/kg/hor 3.77 kJ/kg/h.
79,80 Energy expenditure per hour is simply obtained by multiplying
the constant by body mass. The World Health Organization (WHO) has developedage- and gender-speciﬁc prediction equations
80 and other formulas have also been
developed. The problem is that there is over a 15% difference between methods of
estimation and there is no simple way to determine which formula is most accurate
for which person. Although the majority of formulas take into consideration genderand age,
80,81 many of the standardized formulas ignore other factors that inﬂuence
resting energy expenditure.
B. F ACTORS  INFLUENCING  REE
Athletes typically have a greater lean body mass or a greater proportion of lean massto fat mass than non-athletes.
3 Lean body mass, or muscle mass, is a major contrib-
utor to REE.80 If two individuals have the same gender, height, and weight, the one
with the greater muscle mass and less fat mass will have the higher REE. StandardREE formulas fail to account for lean body mass, which can lead to erroneous results.For example, studies have reported that highly active subjects have REEs greaterthan sedentary controls.
82,83 Yet, when the energy expenditure was reported based
on lean body mass, the groups were found to be similar. Furthermore, the size ofthe individual will modify that relationship. Size is concerned with height for a givenweight.
80 Thus, if two individuals have the same body mass (weight), the taller person
will have a higher REE than the shorter person. The taller leaner person has moresurface area through which heat is lost and needs to produce more heat to maintainthermo-balance.
Prolonged exposure to either temperature extremes can increase the REE. During
acute cold exposure, REE can more than double.
84 In our society, climatic effects
on REE are relatively minor because most of the exposures to these extremes byathletes are limited. Also, during acute exposures, high-technology clothing reducesthe direct effects of the cold or improves heat dissipation in the heat. Air conditioningof training facilities and competition arenas reduces prolonged exposure to hightemperatures. Thus, climatic inﬂuences may be minimal in westernized cultures, butare of importance for many less developed societies. 
The pattern of food intake can directly affect metabolic rate. Skipping meals
results in a lower REE,
3 while overfeeding increases REE.85 The pattern of food
intake can also inﬂuence dietary-induced thermogenesis.3 After feeding, the process7950_C005.fm  Page 148  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 149
of digestion and absorption, as well as assimilation of substrates in the liver (proteins,
glycogen) requires energy. This process is about 65–95% efﬁcient, dependent uponthe type of food ingested.
5 These calories are referred to as dietary-induced thermo-
genesi s (DIT). The DIT varies by substrate. Carbohydrate metabolism increases REE
about 4–5%, proteins increase REE by 20–30%, ethanol about 22%.3,7 Conversely,
fats increase DIT by about 2%. A typical mixed meal increases REE by ~10%. DITpeaks about an hour after eating, but if the meal is high in protein, DIT can last3–5 hours. The thermogenesis seems to be more dependent upon the feeding pattern
than the total caloric intake, as feeding four meals produces a larger increase inthermogenesis than feeding one meal of the same caloric content.
86 Gorging signiﬁ-
cantly elevates the thermogenesis;87,88 however, the effect may not be as signiﬁcant
for obese individuals.89 This is thought to be in some way related to their body fat.90
Other factors that may inﬂuence dietary-induced thermogenesis include genetics,caffeine, nicotine, and diseases such as obesity or diabetes mellitus that affect
insulin.
3 
The hormones thyroxin, epinephrine (adrenalin), and insulin increase REE.3,5,7
Thyroxin increases cell mitochondrial metabolic rate, while epinephrine has a direct
effects on glycolysis, as well as increasing muscle, respiratory, and circulatorymetabolic demands. Insulin, although increasing the cellular storage of glucose, alsoincreases the cellular metabolism of glucose, especially after consuming a meal.
Prolonged exercise training appears to inﬂuence REE, but the ﬁndings of studies
have been inconsistent. Some reports indicated a greater REE per unit lean body massin athletes compared with sedentary controls,
81,82,91–93 while others disagree.82,86,94–96
The disparity of ﬁndings may be related to differing methodologies that (1) have notcontrolled for an effect of the previous exercise, which can persist up to 12–13 hoursafter prolonged strenuous exercise; (2) the thermic effect of subsequent food intake;or (3) have used cross sectional samples of varying size and body composi-tions.
3,82,84,91,93,94 Evidence is accumulating from longitudinal data that aerobic training
does increase REE. For example, a 10-week exercise program in lean, initiallysedentary females resulted in an elevation in REE.
97 Also, the trained individuals
usually have more lean body mass at a given weight, thus increasing absolute REE.3
Although REE may increase, endurance training may also lower the dietary-inducedthermogenesis compared with untrained subjects.
91,94,98 The reduced thermogenesis
could help conserve energy during periods of intense physical training. 
X. DAILY ENERGY EXPENDITURE OF ATHLETES
The energy expenditure of daily life is greater than the REE and is dependent uponlifestyle, occupation, and exercise. Lifestyle can account for 30–90% more energyabove REE depending upon the occupation of the person. For example, someonewith a sedentary occupation and little extraneous activity may only need 10–20%more calories than the REE where as a roofer or bricklayer may need an additional80–90% more calories. A typical college student uses about 40–50% more caloriesa day then his/her REE. This does not account for their exercise program. In general,an adult exercising about 30–45 minutes a day requires only an additional caloricintake of about 10–14% above the caloric intake that is needed for rest, lifestyle and7950_C005.fm  Page 149  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

150 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
occupation. However, for athletes who exercise 3–5 hours a day the energy demand
of the exercise would be considerably greater than the total allowance for REE pluslifestyle needs. Tables of energy expenditure during numerous activities have beendeveloped.
99 In general Table 5.2  can be used as an estimate of additional energy
needs of individuals training for speciﬁc sports. This table was developed from over140 references and represents ranges of energy needs. These estimates of energyneeds should not be taken as absolutes, because they will vary considerably basedon duration of the exercise, the intensity of training and size, age and gender of theathlete. Some sports, like recreational basketball, may require only slightly morethan normal amounts of energy, while others, like competitive endurance cycling,or ultra-marathon running, can require an enormous amount of additional energy.Measured REE can be used to improve these estimates.
Knowledge of the REE can then be combined with the estimated expenditure
for lifestyle and the exercise program to obtain an estimate of the total daily energyexpenditure. Armed with this information and combined with knowledge of caloricintake, athletes, coaches, or clinicians can determine the energy consumption neededTABLE 5.2Energy Requirements of Various Sports Determined 
from Over 100 Sources
SportMen Women
Kilocalories Megajoules Kilocalories Megajoules
Baseball/softball 2200–3500 5.25–8.36 1800–2800 4.30–6.70
Basketball 3000–5500 7.17–13.1 1800–3800 4.30–9.08Crew 2400–7000 5.73–16.73 1300–3600 3.11–8.60Cross-Country Runners 2600–3900 6.21–9.32 2500–3400 5.98–8.12Cross-country Skiers 6000–15000 14.34–36.0 6569–8400 15.7–20.0Cyclists 2800–3900 6.70–9.32 2500–3300 5.98–7.89Fencing 2400–4000 5.73–9.56 2100–3200 5.02–7.64Figure Skating 2300–3100 5.50–7.41 1500–2100 3.59–5.02Gymnastics 1600–4000 3.82–9.56 1200–2200 2.87–5.26Lacrosse 2400–5000 5.73–11.95 1500–3000 3.59–7.17Long Distance Runners 2600–4000 6.21–9.56 2200–3500 5.26–8.36Power Athletes* 2500–4000 5.98–9.56 ----------- -----------Soccer 2100–3700 5.01–8.84 1700–2600 4.06–6.21Swimming 2500–4500 5.98–10.75 2000–4000 4.78–9.56Tennis ----------- ----------- 1300–2500 3.10–5.98Track 2800–6500 6.69–15.54 1800–2900 4.30–6.93Ultra-endurance 2500–6000 5.98–14.34 1800–3100 4.30–7.41US Football 3300–7000 7.89–16.73 ------------- -----------V olleyball 2700–3500 6.45–8.36 1800–2400 4.30–5.74Weight lifting 3000–5000 7.17–11.95 ------------- -----------Wrestling 2600–3800 6.21–9.08 ------------- -----------
* power athletes = shotput, javelin, high jump, pole vault, divers7950_C005.fm  Page 150  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 151
to obtain the desired nutritional balance. For example, a 20-year-old female runner
who weighs 112 pounds ( ∼51 kg) works as a receptionist and trains 5 days a week
for about 2 hours per day and her weight is stable. Stable weight would indicatethat she is in energy balance: intake = output. Her REE was measured to be 1100 kcal/24
h. Her daily activity was estimated to be an additional 330 kcal (REE × 30% for
her relatively sedentary job). Measured during her workout using a portable spirom-etry system, her metabolic rate was was about 7 kcal/min. Thus, her aerobic programwould expend about 840 kcals (7 kcal/min × 120 min), and on the days she exercises
her total energy expenditure was about 2270 kcal (1100 + 330 + 840), while on her
non-exercising days she expended 1430 kcal (1100 + 330). If she wants to gain 5
pounds (2.267 kg) of muscle over the next 3 months, theoretically she will need toincrease her caloric intake by about 100 kcal of carbohydrate or protein per dayusing the following computations:
Weight gain = 2.267 kg = 2267 gm
There are approximately 4 kcal/g of protein or carbohydrate
4 cal/g × 2267 g = 9067 kcal
9067 / 90 days = 101 kcal/d
On workout days her intake should be about 2370, where as on her non-workoutdays her intake should be about 1530 kcal. Conversely, if she wanted to lose 5 poundsover the same time period she would need to decrease energy intake by 101 kcal/d.This is a theoretical example and in reality, many factors will inﬂuence the totalcaloric needs. But by knowing the REE and exercise EE, a coach or clinician canmore precisely determine the needs of the athlete. 
XI. SUMMARY
Four energy expenditure measures may be useful for endurance athletes: maximalaerobic power (VO
2max), economy of movement, REE, and estimates of AT. Athletes
with high aerobic power are generally more successful at endurance sports thanathletes with lower power. However, success in endurance sports is not totallydependent on aerobic power. If two endurance athletes have the same aerobic power,but one has a higher anaerobic threshold or is more economical in movement thanthe other, than there is a strong likelihood that the athlete with these latter traits willprevail. 
The measurement of energy expenditure, although a complex process, is impor-
tant to high-level endurance athletes. Direct calorimetry, in which the person isplaced in a closed chamber and heat production is directly measured, is too conﬁningto be applicable to athletes, except for the measurement of resting metabolic rate.Indirect calorimetry appears to be more applicable to athletes. Indirect calorimetrymeasures VO
2 and CO2 production to compute the energy use for short periods of
time (e.g., minutes, hours). Indirect calorimetry has evolved to the point where7950_C005.fm  Page 151  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

152 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
systems are miniaturized so that metabolic rate can be measured during unhindered
exercise and outside of the laboratory. These characteristics make this method mostapplicable for measuring VO
2max and economy of motion, and for estimating anaer-
obic threshold. Also, to obtain accurate energy expenditures, the activity must becompleted in an aerobic state, or low-to-moderate intensities. At present, we havea limited capability to estimate energy cost of very high-intensity exercise, whichresults in the production of considerable lactic acid.
Because indirect calorimetry is not appropriate to obtain a measure of energy
expenditure over a period of days, doubly labeled water techniques have evolved.This method uses a double-isotope of water (
2H218O) and is most applicable when
measuring overall (total) energy expenditure over days. Doubly labeled water willnot work to measure the speciﬁc energy cost of a given activity, or for maximalaerobic power testing, estimating anaerobic threshold, or economy of motion. Thus,indirect calorimetry is presently our best method for measuring energy expenditureduring speciﬁc activities, while the doubly labeled water is best to estimate overalldaily energy use. In addition, doubly labeled water is expensive and probably out
of the range to be used routinely by athletes.
Knowledge of REE is probably important for athletes who are trying to lose or
gain weight, or if they are having difﬁculty maintaining weight. REE makes up about
50–65% of daily energy expenditure for athletes. In general, the REE is dependentupon the amount of metabolically active tissue and lean body mass, and athletestypically have greater lean body mass and less fat mass than non-athletes. However,other factors such as age, gender, size, climate, caloric intake, hormones, and exercisetraining will modify the REE. REE can be measured by a variety of means rangingfrom room calorimeters to simply measuring oxygen uptake. Presently, the easiestand least costly methods for measuring REE are the portable, indirect calorimetrysystems. Ultimately, to estimate the individual daily energy expenditure three factorsmust be summed: (1) the REE for the 24-hr period, (2) the energy expenditure basedon lifestyle (work/school), and (3) the energy expenditure from any exercise program. 
Endurance athletes can gain much knowledge from measurements of metabolic
rate, which can aid in their training program, track their training status, and assesstheir potential in their speciﬁc sport. As the availability of the miniaturized metabolicsystem increases, costs will hopefully decline and athletes with have greater accessto these measurements of metabolic rate.
REFERENCES
1. Young, D.S., Implementation of SI units for clinical laboratory data, Ann. Intern.
Med.  106, 14–129, 1987.
2. Schutz, Y ., The basis of direct and indirect calorimetry and their potentials, Diabe-
tes/Metabol . Rev. 11, 383–408, 1995.
3. Schutz, Y . and Jéquier, E., Resting energy expenditure, thermic effect of food, and
total energy expenditure. In Handbook of Obesity , Bray, O.J., Bouchard, C., and
James, W.P.T. Eds., Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, 1998, 433–455.
4. Consolazio, C.F., Johnson, R.E., and Pecora, L.J., Physiological Measurements of
Metabolic Functions in Man , McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York, 1963, 1–98.7950_C005.fm  Page 152  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 153
5. McArdle, W.D., Katch, F.I., and Katch, V .L., Exercise Physiology: Energy, Nutrition
and Human Performance,  Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, 1996, 139–213.
6. Krogh, A. and Lindhard, J., The relative value of fat and carbohydrate as sources of
muscular energy, Biochem. J.  14, 290–363, 1920.
7. Bell, G.H., Emslie-Smith, D., and Paterson, C.R., Textbook of Physiology and Bio-
chemistry , Churchill Livingstone, New York, 1976, 57–64.
8. Mellerowicz, H. and Smodlaka, V .N., Ergometry: Basics of Medical Exercise Testing,
Urban & Schwarzenberg: Munich, 1981, 1–23.
9. McLaughlin, J.E., King, G.A., Howley, E.T., Bassett, D.R., and Ainsworth, B.E.,
Validation of the Cosmed K4b2 portable metabolic system, Int. J. Sports Med . 22,
280–284, 2001.
10. Harrell, J.S., McMurray, R.G., Baggett, C.D., Pennell, M.L., Pearce, P.F., and Bangdi-
wala, S.I., Energy costs of physical activities in children and adolescents. Med. Sci.
Sports  Exerc . 37, 329–336, 2005.
11. Barbosa, T.M., Fernandes, R., Keskinen, K.L., Colaco, P., Cardoso, C., Silva, J., and
Vilas-Boas, J.P., Evaluation of the Energy Expenditure in Competitive Swimming
Strokes, Int. J. Sports Med . Apr 11, Epub ahead of print, 2006. 
12. Dufﬁeld, R., Dawson, B., Pinnington, H.C., and Wong, P., Accuracy and reliability
of a Cosmed K4b2 portable gas analysis system, J. Sci. Med. Sport . 7, 11–22,
2004.
13. Maiolo, C., Melchiorri, G., Iacopino, L., Masala, S., and De Lorenzo, A., Physical
activity energy expenditure measured using a portable telemetric device in comparisonwith a mass spectrometer, Br. J. Sports Med. 37, 445–447, 2003.
14. Strath, S.J., Bassett, D.R., Swartz, A.M., Thompson, D.L., Simultaneous heart rate-
motion sensor technique to estimate energy expenditure, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 33,
2118–2123, 2001. 
15. Bigard, A.X. and Guezennec, C.Y ., Evaluation of the Cosmed K2 telemetry system
during exercise at moderate altitude, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 27, 1333–1338, 1995. 
16. Gray, G.L., Matheson, G.O., and McKenzie, D.C., The metabolic cost of two kayaking
techniques, Int. J. Sports Med . 16, 250–254, 1995.
17. Smekal, G., Baron, R., Pokan, R., Dirninger, K., and Bachl, N., Metabolic and
cardiorespiratory reactions in tennis players in laboratory testing and under sport-speciﬁc conditions, Wien. Med. Wochenschr . 145, 611–615, 1995.
18. Zuntz, N. and Schumburg, N.A.E.F., Studien zu Einer Pphysiologie des Macsches.
A. Hirschwald, Berlin, 1901. 
19. Carpenter, T.M., Tables, Factors and Formulas for Computing Respiratory Exchange
and Biological Transformations of Energy. Carnegie Institution of Washington, Wash-ington, DC, 1964, 104.
20. Dill, D.B., The economy of muscular exercise. Physiol. Rev. , 16, 263–291, 1936.
21. Bassett, D.R., Ainsworth, B.E., Swartz, A.M., Strath, S.J., O’Brien, W.L., and King,
G.A., Validity of four motion sensors in measuring moderate intensity physicalactivity, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc.  32, S471–480, 2000.
22. Klein, P.D., James, W.P.T., Wong, W.W., Irving, C.S., Murgatroyd, P.R., Cabrera, M.,
Dallosso, H.M., Klein, E.R., and Nichols, B.L., Calorimetric validation of the doublylabeled water method for determination of energy expenditure in man, Human Nutr.
Clin. Nutr.  38C, 95–106, 1984.
23. Schoeller, D.A., Energy expenditure from doubly labeled water: Some fundamental
considerations in humans, Am. J. Clin. Nutr.  38, 999–1005, 1983.
24. Schoeller, D.A. and Webb, P., Five-day comparison of doubly labeled water method
with respiratory gas exchange, Am. J. Clin. Nutr.  40, 153–158, 1984.7950_C005.fm  Page 153  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

154 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
25. Schoeller, D.A., Measurement of energy expenditure in free-living humans by using
doubly labeled water, J. Nutr. 118, 1278–1289, 1988.
26. Wareham, N.J., Hennings, S.J., Prentice, A.M., and Day, N.E., Feasibility of heart-
rate monitoring to estimate total level and pattern of energy expenditure in a popu-
lation-based epidemiological study: The Ely young cohort feasibility study 1994–5.Br. J. Nutr.  78, 889–900, 1997.
27. Major P., Subtle physical activity poses a challenge to the study of heart rate. Physiol.
Behav.  63, 381–384, 1997.
28. Ott, A.E., Pate, R.R., Trost, S.G., Ward, D.S., and Saunders, R., The use of uniaxial
and triaxial accelerometers to measure children’s free play physical activity, Pediatr.
Exerc. Sci. 12, 360–370, 2000.
29. Councilman, J.E., The Science of Swimming , Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, 1968,
1–5.
30. Saitoh, M., Matsunaga, A., Kamiya, K., Ogura, M.N., Sakamoto, J., Yonezawa, R.,
Kasahara Y ., Watanabe, H., and Masuda, T., Comparison of cardiovascular responsesbetween upright and recumbent cycle ergometers in healthy young volunteers per-forming low-intensity exercise: Assessment of reliability of the oxygen uptake calculatedby using the ACSM metabolic equation, Arch. Phys. Med. Rehabil . 86,1024–1029,
2005.
31. Paton, C.D. and Hopkins, W.G., Tests of cycling performance, Sports Med . 31,
489–496, 2001.
32. Knuttgen, H.G., Force, work, power and exercise, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 10, 227–228,
1978.
33. American College of Sports Medicine. ACSM’s  Resource Manual for Guidelines for
Exercise Testing and Prescription.  Baltimore:Williams & Wilkins, 1998.
34. MacDougall, J.D., Wenger, H.A., and Green, H.J., Physiological Testing of the High-
Performance Athlete . Champaign: Human Kinetics, 1991.
35. Howley, E.T. and Franks, B.D., Health Fitness Instructor’s Handbook . Champaign:
Human Kinetics, 1997.
36. American College of Sports Medicine. Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescrip-
tion. Physical Fitness Testing and Interpretation , 6th Edition, Baltimore: Lippincott
Williams & Wilkins, 2000, pp. 57–90. 
37. Zhang, Y .Y ., Johnson, M.C., Chow, N., and Wasserman, K., Effect of exercise testing
protocol on parameters of aerobic function, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc.  23, 625–630,
1991.
38. Bernstein, I.A., Webber, O., and Woledge, R., An ergonomic comparison of rowing
machine designs: Possible implications for safety, Br. J. Sports Med . 36, 108–112,
2002.
39. Mahler, D.A., Andrea, B.E., and Andresen, D.C., Comparison of 6-min “all-out” and
incremental exercise tests in elite oarsmen, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 16, 567–571, 1984.
40. Schabort, E.J., Hawley, J.A., Hopkins, W.G., and Blum, H., High reliability of per-
formance of well-trained rowers on a rowing ergometer, J. Sports Sci . 17, 627–632,
1999.
41. Riechman, S.E., Zoeller, R.F., Balasekaran, G., Goss, F.L., and Robertson, R.J.,
Prediction of 2000 m indoor rowing performance using a 30 s sprint and maximaloxygen uptake, J. Sports Sci . 20, 681–687, 2002.
42. Herk, H., Mader, A., Hess, G., Mucke, S., Muller, R., and Hollmann, W., Justiﬁcation
of the 4-mmol/l lactate threshold, Int. J. Sports  Med. 6, 117–130, 1985.7950_C005.fm  Page 154  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 155
43. McMurray, R.G., Berry, M.J., Vann, R.T., Hardy, C.J., and Sheps, D.S., The effect
of running in an outdoor environment on plasma beta endorphin, Ann. Sports. Med.
3, 230–233, 1988.
44. Costill, D.L., Use of a swimming ergometer in physiological research, Res. Quart .
37, 564– 567, 1966.
45. McMurray, R.G., Effects of body position and immersion on recovery after swimming
exercise, Res. Quart . 40, 738–742, 1969. 
46. Holmer, I., Physiology of swimming man. Acta Physiol. Scand . Suppl 407, 1–55,
1974.
47. Pendergast, D.R., diPrampero, P.E., Craig, A.B., Wilson, D.R., and Rennie, D.W.,
Quantitative analysis of the front crawl in men and women, J. Appl. Physiol . 43,
475–479, 1977.
48. Leger, L.A., Seliger, V . and Brassard, L., Backward extrapolation of VO2max values
from the O2 recovery curve, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 12, 24–27, 1979.
49. Costill, D.L., Kovaleski, J., Porter, D., Kirwan, J., Fielding, R., and King, D., Energy
expenditure during front crawl swimming: predicting success in middle distance
events, Int. J. Sports Med . 6, 266–270, 1985.
50. Astrand, P.O. and Saltin, B., Maximal oxygen uptake and heart rate in various types
of muscular activity, J. Appl. Physiol . 16, 977–981, 1961.
51. Faulkner, J.A., Roberts, D.E., Elk, R.L., and Conway, J., Cardiovascular responses
to submaximum and maximum effort cycling and running, J. Appl. Physiol . 30,
457–461, 1971.
52. McArdle, W.D., Katch, F.I., and Pechar, G.S., Comparison of continuous and discon-
tinuous treadmill and bicycle tests for max VO2, Med. Sci. Sports  5, 156–160, 1973.
53. Wicks, J.R., Sutton, J.R., Oldridge, N.B., and Jones, N.L., Comparison of the elec-
trocardiographic changes induced by maximum exercise testing with treadmill andcycle ergometer, Circulation . 57, 1066–1070, 1978.
54. Yoshiga, C.C. and Higuchi, M., Heart rate is lower during ergometer rowing than
during treadmill running, Eur. J. Appl. Physiol . 87, 97–100, 2002.
55. Roels, B., Schmitt, L., Libicz, S., Bentley, D., Richalet, J.P., and Millet, G., Speciﬁcity
of VO
2max and the ventilatory threshold in free swimming and cycle ergometry:
Comparison between triathletes and swimmers. Br. J. Sports Med . 39, 965–968, 2005.
56. Keller, B. and Katch, F.I., It is not valid to adjust gender differences in aerobic capacity
and strength for body mass or lean body mass, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 23, S167, 1991.
57. Swain, D.P. and Leutholtz, B.C., Metabolic Calculations Simpliﬁed . Baltimore: Wil-
liams & Wilkins, 1997.
58. Rowland T.W., Developmental Exercise Physiology . Champaign: Human Kinetics,
1996.
59. Shvartz, E. and Reibold, R.C., Aerobic ﬁtness norms for males and females aged 6
to 75 years: A review, Aviat. Space Environ. Med.  61, 3–11, 1990.
60. Saltin B. and Astrand P.O., Maximal oxygen uptake of athletes, J. Appl. Physiol . 23,
353– 358, 1967.
61. Rusko, H.K., Development of aerobic power in relation to age and training in cross-
country skiers, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 24, 1040–1047, 1992.
62. Beneke, R. and Hutler, M., The effect of training on running economy and perfor-
mance in recreational athletes, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 37, 1794–1799, 2005.
63. Jones, A.M. and Carter, H. The effect of endurance training on parameters of aerobic
ﬁtness, Sports Med . 29, 373–386, 2000.7950_C005.fm  Page 155  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

156 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
64. Powers, S.K., Dodd, S., Deason, R., Byrd, R., and McKnight, T., Ventilatory threshold,
running economy and distance running performance of trained athletes, Res. Quart .
54, 179–182, 1983.
65. Ready, A.E. and Quinney, H.A., Alterations in anaerobic threshold as the result of
endurance training and detraining, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 14, 292–296, 1982.
66. Wasserman, K., Whipp, B.J., Koyl, S.N., and Beaver, W.L., Anaerobic threshold and
respiratory gas exchange during exercise, J. Appl. Physiol . 35, 236–243, 1973.
67. Denis, C., Fouquet, R., Poty, P., Geyssant, A., and Lacour, J.R., Effects of 40 weeks
of endurance training on anaerobic threshold, Int. J. Sports Med . 3, 208–214, 1982.
68. Kohrt, W.M., O’Conner, J.S., and Skinner, J.S., Longitudinal assessment of responses
by triathletes to swimming, cycling and running, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 21, 569–575,
1989.
69. McLellan, T.M. and Jacobs, I., Active recovery, endurance training, and the calcula-
tion of the individual anaerobic threshold, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 21, 586–592, 1989.
70. Conconi, F., Ferrari, M., Ziglio, P.G., Droghetti, P., and Codeca, L., Determination
of the anaerobic threshold by a noninvasive ﬁeld test in runners, J. Appl. Physiol . 52,
869–873, 1982.
71. Svedenhag, J. and Sjodin, B., Maximal and submaximal oxygen uptakes and blood
lactate levels in elite male middle- and long-distance runners, Int. J. Sports Med . 5,
255–261, 1984.
72. Daniels, J. and Daniels, N., Running economy of elite male and elite female runners,
Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 24, 483–489, 1992.
73. Alexander, R.M., Walking and running, Am. Scientist.  72, 348–354, 1984.
74. Coyle, E.F., Sidossis, L.S., Horowitz, J.F. and Beltz, J.D., Cycling efﬁciency is related
to the percentage of type 1 muscle ﬁber, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc . 24, 782–788, 1992.
75. Tanaka, K., Nakadomo, F., and Moritani, T., Effects of standing cycling and the use
of toe stirrups on maximal oxygen uptake, Eur. J. Appl. Physiol . 56, 699–703, 1987.
76. Burfoot, A. and Billing, B., The perfect pace. Runner’s World , Nov, 1985, pp. 39 +
77. Bursztein, S., Elwyn, D.H., Askanazi, J., and Kinney, J.M., Energy Metabolism,
Indirect Calorimetry, and Nutrition.  Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, 1989.
78. Matthews, C.E. and Freedson, P.S., Field trial of a three-dimensional activity monitor:
comparison with self report, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc.  27, 1071–1078, 1995.
79. Arciero, P.J., Goran, M.I., and Poehlman E.T. Resting metabolic rate in lower in
women than men, J. Appl. Physiol . 75, 2514–2520, 1993.
80. National Research Council. Recommended Dietary Allowances . 10th edition, National
Academy Press, Washington DC, 1989.
81. Altman, P.L. and Dittmer, D.S., Metabolism. Fed. Am. Soc. Exper. Biol ., Bethesda,
1968. 
82. Horton, T.J., and Geissler, C.A., Effects of habitual exercise on daily energy expen-
diture and metabolic rate during standardized activity, Am. J. Clin. Nutr.  59, 13–19,
1994.
83. Toth, M.J., and Poehlman, E.T., Effect of exercise on daily energy expenditure, Nutr.
Rev. 54, S140–148, 1996.
84. Jacobs, I., Martineau, L., and Vallerand, A.L., Thermoregulatory thermogenesis in
humans during cold exposure, Exerc. Sport Sci. Rev.  22, 221–250, 1994.
85. Lammert, O. and Hansen, E.S., Effects of excessive caloric intake and caloric restric-
tion on body weight and energy expenditure at rest and light exercise, Acta Physiol.
Scand,  114, 135–141, 1982.
86. LeBlanc, J. and Mercier, I., Components of postprandial thermogenesis in relation
to meal frequency in humans,  Canad. J. Physiol. Pharm.,  71, 879–883, 1993.7950_C005.fm  Page 156  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

Energy Expenditure of Athletes 157
87. Miller, D.S., Gluttony 2: Thermogenesis in overeating man, Am. J. Clin. Nutr . 20,
1233–1239, 1967. 
88. Verboeket-Van de Venne, W.P.H.G., Westerterp, K.R., and Kester, A.D.M., Effect of
the pattern of food intake on human energy metabolism, Br. J. Nutr.  70, 103–115,
1993.
89. Zahorska-Markiewicz, B., Thermic effects of food and exercise in obesity, Eur. J.
Appl. Physiol.  44, 231–235, 1980.
90. Shetty, P.S., Jung, R.T., James, W.P., Barrand, M.A., and Callingham, B.A., Post-
prandial thermogenesis in obesity, Clin. Sci.  60, 519–525, 1981.
91. Poehlman, E.T., Melby, C.L. and Badylek, S.F., Resting metabolic rate and post
prandial thermogenesis in highly trained and untrained males, Am. J. Clin. Nutr.  47,
793–798, 1988.
92. Horton, E.S., Metabolic aspects of exercise and weight reduction, Med. Sci. Sports
Exerc. 18, 10–18, 1986.
93. Tremblay, A.E., Fontaine, E., Poehlman, E.T., Mitchell, D., Perron, L., and Bouchard,
C., The effect of exercise-training on resting metabolic rate in lean and moderately
obese individuals, Int. J. Obes . 10, 511–517, 1986.
94. Davis, J.R., Tagiaferro, A.R., Kertzer R., Gerardo, T., Nichols, J., and Wheeler, J.,
Variation in dietary-induced thermogenesis and body fatness with aerobic capacity,Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. 50, 319–329, 1983.
95. Wilmore, J.H., Stanforth, P.R., Hudspeth, L.A., Gagnon, J., Warwick Daw, E., Leon,
A.C., Rao, D.C., Skinner, J.S., and Bouchard, C., Alterations in resting metabolicrate as a consequence of 20 wk of endurance training: the Heritage Family Study,Am. J. Clin. Nutr.  68, 66–71, 1998.
96. Dolezal, B.A. and Potteiger, J.A., Concurrent resistance and endurance training inﬂu-
ence basal metabolic rate in nondieting individuals, J. Appl. Physiol.  85, 695–700,
1998.
97. Lawson, S., Webster, J.D., Pacy, P.J., and Garrow, J.S., Effect of a 10-week aerobic
exercise programme on metabolic rate, body composition and ﬁtness in lean sedentaryfemales, Brit. J.  Clin Pract.  41, 684–688, 1987.
98. Thorbek, G., Chwalibog, A., Jakobsen, K., and Henckel, S., Heat production and
quantitative oxidation of nutrients by physically active humans, Ann. Nutr. Metabol.
38, 8–12, 1994.
99. Ainsworth, B.E., Haskell, W.L., Whitt, M.C., Irwin, M.L., Swartz, A.M., Strath, S.J.,
O’Brien, W.L., Bassett, D.R., Schmitz, K.H., Emplaincourt, P.O., Jacob, D.R., andLeon, A.S., Compendium of physical activities: an update of activity codes and METintensities, Med. Sci. Sports Exerc.  32, S498–S504, 2000.
100. Short, S.H. and Short, W.R., Four-year study of university athletes' dietary intake, J.
Am. Diet. Assoc . 82, 632–645, 1983. 7950_C005.fm  Page 157  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

7950_C005.fm  Page 158  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:54 PM

 
159 
6 
The Measurement 
of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity  
Kelley K. Pettee, Catrine Tudor-Locke, 
and Barbara E. Ainsworth  
CONTENTS 
I.  Introduction ..................................................................................................159
II. Deﬁnitions ....................................................................................................160III. Conceptual Framework for Quantifying Energy Expenditure ....................164IV . Methods of Assessing Physical Activity and Energy Expenditure.............165
A. Measuring Energy Expenditure............................................................167
1. Direct Measures of Energy Expenditure.......................................167
2. Indirect Measures of Energy Expenditure ....................................169
B. Measuring Physical Activity.................................................................170
1. Direct Measures of Physical Activity ...........................................170
2. Indirect Measures of Physical Activity.........................................175
V . Measures of Physical Inactivity...................................................................180VI. Summary ......................................................................................................181References..............................................................................................................182 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Regular, moderate- to high-intensity physical activity confers substantial health-related 
1 
 and performance-related 
2 
 beneﬁts. The speciﬁc activity-related physiologic
adaptations and the degree to which these adaptations occur is dependent on theinteraction of the frequency, duration, and intensity of the activity being performed. 
3 
This interaction is often quantiﬁed as “energy expenditure” (EE). It should be notedthat total daily EE is the sum of energy expended at rest (resting metabolic rate)(~50–70% of total EE), while eating and digesting a meal (thermic effect of food)(~7–10% of total EE), and during and after bouts of physical activity (activity-relatedEE). 
4 
 However, although resting metabolic rate may account for the largest percent-
age of daily EE, differences in physical activity-related EE represent the largest 
7950_C006.fm  Page 159  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

 
160 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
source of variability in the energy requirements of a given individual as well as
among groups of individuals. 
4 
 A 2000 position statement on nutrition and athletic
performance emphasized the relation between energy intake and activity-related EEto enhance athletic performance, maintain total and lean body mass, govern meta-bolic and endocrine factors associated with the regulation of energy stores, and toenhance recovery between exercise bouts. 
5 
 
To appropriately match athletes’ energy intake with their EE, valid measures are
needed to precisely quantify and track physical activity and exercise patterns andtheir associated energy costs. Because physical activity is a complex multidimensionalbehavior, precise measurement remains a challenge for researchers and practitioners,especially among free-living individuals. 
6,7 
 Feasibility considerations both in terms
of expense and administrative burden result in the need for low-cost, reliable indirectmethods of assessing activity-related EE as a part of a holistic approach to meetingthe energy requirements of athletes. The objective of this chapter is to review currentmethods used to quantify free-living physical activity-related EE. First, importantterminology will be introduced as an entrée to the presentation of a conceptual
framework that will guide the discussion on measuring physical activity and EE.
Following will be a discussion of measurement techniques with an emphasis on ﬁeldmethods that can be used to assess activity-related EE among athletic populations.  
II. DEFINITIONS 
Before a speciﬁed construct (e.g., cardiorespiratory ﬁtness) can be operationalizedinto a measurable variable (e.g., maximal oxygen consumption, VO 
2max 
, measured
in units of mL·O 
2 
·kg 
–1 
·min 
–1 
) for research or exercise training purposes, precise
conceptual deﬁnitions must be established for the construct of interest. 
8 
 Conceptually
different terms pertaining to the measurement of physical activity and EE have oftenbeen used interchangeably by researchers and practitioners. This has resulted inconfusion, inconsistent study designs, limitations to inter-study comparisons, and alack of standardized measurement practices. 
3,9,10 
 Attempts to standardize terminology
have been made. 
10,11 
 These efforts were aimed at developing a universal framework
from which deﬁnitions can be drawn to aid in operationalizing constructs intomeasurable study variables and within which more precise data interpretations andcomparisons can be made among studies that relate physical activity to health orperformance variables. Table 6.1 presents several deﬁnitions of terms related to themeasurement of physical activity and EE. 
It is important to recognize that physical activity and EE are not synonymous
terms. Physical activity is a behavioral process characterizing body movement thatresults from skeletal muscle contraction, of which a product is EE. 
7 
 Several types
or categories of physical activity exist (Figure 6.1) and likely overlap to some extent,depending on an individual’s purpose for performing the activity. For example, abrisk walk to and from the store may be a form of transportation for one individual,whereas the same brisk walk may be part of a planned exercise program aimed atmanaging blood pressure for another. Exercise training and competitive sport com-pose a subcategory of physical activity that is systematically structured for theprimary objective of enhancing one or more dimension of physical ﬁtness or sport 
7950_C006.fm  Page 160  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

 
The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 
161 
TABLE 6.1
Deﬁnitions of Terms Related to the Measurement of Energy Expenditure 
and Physical Activity 
Energy The capacity to do work.
Energy Expenditure The exchange of energy required to perform biological work.Physical Activity Bodily movement that is produced by the contraction of skeletal 
muscle and that substantially increases energy expenditure.
Physical Fitness A set of attributes (e.g., muscle strength and endurance, 
cardiorespiratory, ﬂexibility, etc.) that people have to achieve that relate to the ability to perform physical activity.
Exercise Planned, structured, and repetitive bodily movement done to 
improve or maintain one or more components of physical ﬁtness. Exercise is a speciﬁc sub-category of physical activity.
Calorimetry Methods used to calculate the rate and quantity of energy 
expenditure when the body is at rest and during physical activity.
Calorie A unit of energy that reﬂects the amount of heat required to raise 
the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1 
° 
C. 
Kilocalories (kcal) 1,000 calories, 4.184 kilojoules.Kilojoules (kj) The unit of energy in the International System of Units. 1,000 
Joules, 0.238 kcal.
Metabolic Equivalent (MET) A unit used to estimate the metabolic cost (oxygen consumption) 
of physical activity. One MET equals the resting metabolic rate of approximately 3.5 ml O 
2 
·kg 
–1 
·min 
–1 
, or 1 kcal·kg 
–1 
·hr 
–1 
. 
Duration The dimension of physical activity referring to the amount of time 
an activity is performed.
Frequency The dimension of physical activity referring to how often an activity 
is performed.
Intensity The dimension of physical activity referring to the rate of energy 
expenditure while the activity is performed.
Hours/Minutes Typical units of time used in quantifying the rate of energy 
expenditure or the period of physical activity measurement (e.g., kcal per minute or kcal·min 
–1 
).
MET-minutes The rate of energy expenditure expressed as METS per minute, 
which is calculated by multiplying the minutes a speciﬁc activity is performed by the corresponding energy cost of the activity.
MET-hours The rate of energy expenditure expressed as METS per hours, which 
is calculated by multiplying the hours a speciﬁc activity is performed by the corresponding energy cost of the activity.
Unitless Indices A unitless number that is computed as an ordinal measure of 
physical activity or energy expenditure.
Dose-Response A relationship where increasing levels or “doses” of physical 
activity result in corresponding changes in the expected levels of the deﬁned health parameter. 
Sources: 
 Brooks, Fahey, and White, 1996 
12 
, pp. 15–25; Caspersen, Powell, and Christenson, 1985 
10 
.
pp.126–131; Corbin, Pangrazi, and Franks, 2000 
11 
, pp.1–9; Montoye, Kemper, Saris, and Washburn,
1996 
13 
; pp. 3–14. 
7950_C006.fm  Page 161  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

 
162 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
speciﬁc skills to optimize an individual’s sport-related performance. Because the
subcategories of physical activity overlap, they are very difﬁcult to measure asindependent categories. 
9 
 Additional categorization of physical activities can be based
on the intensity or rate of EE attributed to a speciﬁc activity. 
14–17 
 Activities can be
self-rated as  
light 
,  
moderate 
, or  
vigorous 
 intensity, 
18 
 or can be described according
to objective published intensity categories. 
14–17 
 Hence, physical activity may be
classiﬁed by purpose, such as sports, occupation, and home care, or by intensity, asin light, moderate, and vigorous. Seasonal and day-to-day intra-individual variationin physical activity patterns 
19–21 
 and discordance between self-rated and actual activ-
ity intensity 
18,22 
 have been shown to affect the precision of measuring activity and
EE. Further, because the subcategories of physical activity have different meaningsaccording to sex, race-ethnicity, and cultural perspectives, 
23,24 
 self-report activity
instruments must reﬂect the speciﬁc demographics and lifestyle of the targetedpopulation. Accordingly, these issues should be considered when choosing a methodof assessing physical activity and its related EE. It is critical to consider all sourcesof daily habitual physical activity to precisely quantify activity-related EE to accu-rately meet an individual’s energy requirements. 
Physical activity is typically quantiﬁed in terms of its frequency (number of
bouts) and its duration (e.g., minutes per bout). The resulting EE is a direct functionof all metabolic processes involved with the exchange of energy required to supportthe skeletal muscle contraction associated with a given physical activity. Energyexpenditure reﬂects the intensity or metabolic cost of a given physical activity andis a product of the frequency, duration, and energy cost of the speciﬁc activity. Forexample, if a 55-kg female runner completes a 45-minute tempo run at a 6-min/mile
pace (4 min/km), her EE would be about 660 kcal based on the followingcomputation: 
frequency (1)  
× 
 duration (45 min)  
× 
 the energy cost of running a 6-min/mile pace 
(~0.267 kcal·kg 
–1 
·min 
–1 
). 
25 
  
FIGURE 6.1 
Physical activity and its related components. 
7950_C006.fm  Page 162  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

 
The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 
163 
This calculation determined the  
gross 
 EE for running 45 minutes at a 6-min/mile
pace (4 min/km). This value, however, reﬂects both the activity-related and resting
EE. 
26 
 To account for only the energy expended during the running activity, one must
compute the  
net 
 EE. To do so, the amount of energy assumed to be expended to
sustain resting metabolic functions within the speciﬁed activity duration must besubtracted from the gross EE. A 55-kg individual has a resting EE of about 55kcal · hr 
–1 
 or 0.92 kcal · min 
–1 
. Therefore, the amount of energy expended within
the 45-min running bout attributed to resting metabolism would be about 41.2 kcal(0.92  
× 
 45). After subtracting this value from the previously computed gross EE of
660 kcal, a net EE of about 619 would be attributed to the 45 minutes of runningactivity. Net EE should be used when comparing the energy cost of one activitywith another and when comparing activity-related EEs between individuals. 
26 
 
Another important consideration pertaining to quantifying activity-related EE is
the use of absolute vs. relative scales to index the energy cost of speciﬁc activities.
Although several factors may inﬂuence EE on a relative scale (e.g., age, body size,
ﬁtness level), if one assumes a fairly constant human mechanical efﬁciency to performphysical work (~23%), 
27 
 then absolute EE is generally constant for a given activity.
Therefore, it is possible to standardize methods of assigning energy costs to speciﬁcactivities for the purpose of assessing activity-related EE among large populations offree-living individuals. Factors such as age, sex, and ﬁtness level will undoubtedlyinﬂuence the precision by which a standardized activity-speciﬁc absolute energy costreﬂects a given individual’s relative intensity level (e.g., percentage of actual maximalcapacity). 
28 
 For example, a 3.5 mph (5.6 km/hr) walk carries an absolute energy cost
of 3.8 kcal·kg 
–1 
·hr 
–1 
. For a healthy individual with a maximal capacity of about 12
kcal·kg 
–1 
·hr 
–1 
 the relative intensity is about 32% of maximal capacity; whereas for an
older individual with a maximal capacity of 7 kcal·kg 
–1 
·hr 
–1 
 the relative intensity is
about 55%. The issue of absolute vs. relative intensity is probably more importantwhen prescribing exercise or when categorizing individuals into intensity-speciﬁc levelsof activity (e.g., moderately vs. vigorously active). Feasibility considerations relatedto individualized measures of relative EE limit assessment methods among large free-living populations limit the use of absolute energy cost scales. However, because EEis closely related to body size, it is essential to account for this factor when quantifyingactivity-related EE. It is therefore preferable to express EE per unit of body mass, forexample, as kcal per kilogram of body mass per minute (kcal·kg 
–1 
·min 
–1 
). Returning
to the 55-kg female runner who completes a 45-minute run at a 6-min/mile pace(4 min/km), the absolute net EE was 619 kcal, whereas the net EE relative to the
individual’s body mass would be about 11.25 kcal·kg 
–1 
 during the 45-minute bout of
running activity. A 75-kg runner who completes the same running task would have anabsolute net EE of 844.75 kcal, but when expressed per kg of body weight, the EE isthe same (11.26 kcal·kg 
–1 
) as that computed for the lighter runner. 
An alternative unit of quantifying activity-related EE is the metabolic equivalent,
or MET. 
14 
 The MET represents the ratio of work to resting metabolic rate. 
13 
 It is
accepted that resting EE is approximately 1 MET, which is equivalent to 3.5mL·O 
2 
·kg 
–1 
·min 
–1 
, or about 1 kcal·kg 
–1 
·hr 
–1 
. 
13  
To compute the MET level of a given
physical activity, multiply the associated MET level for a given activity by the duration(e.g., minutes) for which the activity was performed. This results in the MET-minute. 
7950_C006.fm  Page 163  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

 
164 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
This index quantiﬁes the rate at which energy is expended for the duration an activity
is performed, while accounting simultaneously for body size and resting metabo-lism. 
14,29,30 
 To standardize the quantiﬁcation of EE and reduce potential sources of
extraneous variation in physical activity research, a systematic approach for assigningMET levels of EE to speciﬁc physical activities has been published. 
14,15 
 The  
Com-
pendium of Physical Activities 
14,15 
 provides researchers and practitioners with a stan-
dardized linkage between speciﬁc activities, their purpose and their estimated energycost expressed in METS. A sample entry from the Compendium is listed below: 
Column 1 shows a ﬁve-digit code that indexes the general class or purpose of
the activity. In this example, 12 refers to running and 120 refers speciﬁcally to runninga 6 min/mile (4 min/km) pace. Column 2 shows the energy cost of the activity inMETs. Columns 3 and 4 show the type of activity (running) and a speciﬁc examplerelated with the activity code. Much of the original work to standardize the energycost of physical activity was calibrated for a 60-kg person. 
14 
 Therefore, the conversion
between MET minutes and kcal of EE is approximated by multiplying MET minutesby the quotient of an individual’s body mass divided by 60. 
14 
 For a 60-kg person, the
caloric equivalent will be slightly higher and, for those weighing less than 60 kg, thecaloric equivalent will be slightly lower than the MET-minute value. The caloricequivalent of 150 MET-minutes of walking for a 70-kg person is about 75 kcal, fora 60-kg person the caloric equivalent is about 150 kcal, and for a 50-kg person, about125 kcal. Returning to the 55-kg runner, completing the 45-minute bout of runningat 6-min/mile (4 min/km) pace would result in 720 MET-minutes (16 MET activity 
× 
 45 minutes) or 660 kcal (720 MET-min  
× 
 [55/60]). Kcal energy expenditure also
can be estimated using MET-hr as follows: MET  
× 
 hrs  
× 
 kg body weight.
Deﬁning and standardizing terms associated with physical activity measurement is
a critical step in reducing unwanted sources of variation and producing unbiased esti-mates of activity-related EE. 
13–15,29 
 It should be apparent from the previous discussion
that, although the use of a standardized compendium to index activity-speciﬁc energycosts results in potentially large differences between individuals in terms of absolute netEE, after accounting for body size, EE estimates for a given activity are quite small. The 
Compendium of Physical Activities  
may not resolve every issue related to individual vs.
population-based assessment of activity-related EE. It does, however, provide a standard-ized measurement method for use in research and practical settings, which shouldenhance the consistency of EE assessment in terms of precision and reproducibility.  
III. CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK FOR QUANTIFYING 
ENERGY EXPENDITURE 
To incorporate the terminology described above into a framework that can guide themeasurement of EE under laboratory and ﬁeld conditions, it could be argued that theconstruct of interest within the activity-EE measurement paradigm might best be deﬁnedas “movement”. Movement can be operationalized into two measurable variables: 
Code MET Activity Examples 
12120 16 running running, 10 mph 
7950_C006.fm  Page 164  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

 
The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 
165 
physical activity (a behavior) and EE (the energy cost of the behavior) (Figure 6.2).
Direct and indirect measures exist for both physical activity and EE. However, becauseresearchers and practitioners are ultimately interested in matching energy intake withEE, researchers typically extrapolate activity measures to units of EE prior to evaluatingpotential effects on energy balance. Energy expenditure is often estimated from physicalactivity questionnaires or other indirect measures that reﬂect patterns of activities invarious settings. Indirect measures of activity or EE may provide acceptable estimates,depending on the degree of concordance with more direct measures of EE. Followingis a review of methods to assess physical activity and EE, with emphasis placed ondirect and indirect techniques that can be used to quantify EE among free-living pop-ulations. Laboratory-based methods for assessing physical activity and EE are coveredelsewhere in this volume. Comprehensive reviews of free-living and laboratory methodsused to assess activity-related EE can be found elsewhere. 
6,7,13,31–40 
  
IV. METHODS OF ASSESSING PHYSICAL ACTIVITY 
AND ENERGY EXPENDITURE 
The primary objective of measuring activity-related EE is to obtain a reliable andaccurate estimate of the energy cost for a given activity or series of activities. TheEE score can then be applied within the context of designing and tracking exercise 
FIGURE 6.2 
Conceptual Framework for deﬁning and assessing physical activity and energy
expenditure. Adapted with permission from M.J. LaMonte and B.E. Ainsworth, Quantiﬁcation
of energy expenditure and physical activity in the context of dose response,  
Med. Sci. Sports
Exerc 
. 2001; 33 (6 suppl): S370–S378. 
7950_C006.fm  Page 165  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

 
166 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
training and nutrition programs to optimize athletic performance (e.g., endurance,
power, muscular strength). The practical application of linking physical activity andEE is predicated upon precise measures of both variables. Several direct and indirectmethods exist to assess physical activity and EE in laboratory and ﬁeld set-tings. 
6,7,13,31–40 
 Table 6.2 lists the most common measurement techniques. 
Direct measures of physical activity include the use of physical activity records
and diaries and mechanical or electronic motion sensors to obtain detailed informa tion 
TABLE 6.2Methods of Assessing Physical Activity and Energy Expenditure 
Dimension Measured UnitsTechnical/
Administrative 
Burden
Direct Measures 
Observation Physical Activity Frequency, Duration, Type Moderate
Room Calorimetry Energy Expenditure kcal of heat production HighDoubly Labeled Water Energy Expenditure kcal from CO 
2 
 production High
Biochemical Forces Energy Expenditure kcal from VO 
2 
 – force 
curvesHigh
Acceleration Vectors 
(e.g., Accelerometery)Physical Activity Frequency, Duration Moderate
Energy Expenditure kcal, METs from VO 
2 
 
regressionsModerate
Motion Sensors (e.g., 
Pedometry)Physical Activity LowEnergy Expenditure Low
PA Records or Diaries Physical Activity Frequency, Duration, Type High
Energy Expenditure kcal, METs from 
Compendium of Physical 
ActivitiesHigh 
Indirect Measures 
Indirect Calorimetry Energy Expenditure kcal, METs from CO 
2 
 
productionHigh
Physiologic Measures 
(e.g., Heart Rate)Energy Expenditure kcal, METs from relation 
with VO 
2 
Moderate
PA Surveys or 
Questionnaires, Recall Interviews, LogsPhysical Activity Frequency, Duration, Type Low
Energy Expenditure kcal, METs from 
Compendium of Physical 
ActivitiesLow
Surrogate Reports (e.g., 
Energy Intake)Energy Expenditure kcal, assumes weight stable Low 
7950_C006.fm  Page 166  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

 
The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 
167 
pertaining to the frequency, duration, or pattern of physical activities performed over
a deﬁned observation period. Indirect physical activity measures involve the use ofquestionnaires, logs, and 24-hour recall instruments that require respondents to recalltheir usual activity habits during a period in the far or recent past. Indirect methodstypically produce less detail than direct physical activity measures, but offer sub-stantially less administrative burden and cost. 
Precise measures of EE are difﬁcult without the use of expensive laboratory
procedures involving metabolic chambers or radioactive isotope tracers. 
6,13 
 Activity-
related EE can be estimated indirectly from ﬁeld measures of physiologic variablesor physical activity; 
7,9 
 however, the error associated with estimated EE may limit
the precision needed for application on an individual level. 
41 
A. M 
EASURING 
 E 
NERGY 
 E 
XPENDITURE 
The complex biochemical processes that drive the transfer of metabolic energy
required for skeletal muscle contraction during physical activity result in a largeamount of heat energy. 
12 
 The rate of heat production is directly proportional to the
net activity-related EE; therefore, EE can be precisely quantiﬁed by measuring body
heat at rest or during exercise. 
42 
 The oxidation of food substrate is a primary source
of energy production at rest, during and following physical activity. Therefore,activity-related EE can be estimated by measuring the fractional considerations ofexpired CO 
2 
 and O 
2 
 during physical activity and calculating EE based on some
assumptions about the energy cost of substrate oxidation. 
42 
 Laboratory methods for
direct measures of heat production (e.g., room calorimetry) and ventilatory gasexchange (e.g., indirect calorimetry) have been described elsewhere in this volume.Following is an overview of the ﬁeld methods used to assess activity-related EE ina variety of settings.  
1. Direct Measures of Energy Expenditure 
a. Doubly Labeled Water (DLW) 
Energy Expenditure estimated from DLW is based on the rate of metabolic carbondioxide production (VCO 
2 
). 
43,44 
 The DLW solution consists of the stable water
isotopes  
2 
H 
2 
O and H 
218 
O and is administered according to body size. Urinary
isotope excretion is tracked using an isotope-ratio mass spectrometer prior todosing, shortly after dosing, and over several days thereafter. Labeled hydrogen( 
2 
H 
2O) is excreted as water alone, while labeled oxygen (H218O) is lost as water
and CO2 (C18O2) through the carbonic anhydrase system. The difference in the
isotope turnover rate provides a measure of metabolic VCO2..44 Oxygen uptake
(VO2) and total body EE are extrapolated from measured VCO2 and an estimate of
the respiratory quotient (RQ) based on established equations.45 Under steady-state
conditions, RQ reﬂects the relative percentage of carbohydrate and fat oxidationand is calculated as VCO
2/VO2. Inherent error will exist in DLW EE estimates
when RQ is estimated and when measurements are made under non-steady-stateconditions such as exercise.
13 7950_C006.fm  Page 167  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

168 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
Differences in EE estimates between DLW and indirect calorimetry measures
have been as high as 20%.41,46–48 Discrepancies between DLW and indirect calorim-
etry may reﬂect a greater amount of activity-related EE under free-living conditions
that can be simulated and measured under controlled laboratory conditions. AlthoughDLW provides precise estimates of free-living EE over prolonged periods (e.g., weeks),this technique is limited to studies of total EE and does not differentiate the duration,frequency, or intensity of speciﬁc physical activity. 
A “physical activity level” index (PAL) has been computed as the DLW total
daily EE divided by measured or estimated resting metabolic rate.
49 The PAL reﬂects
the energy requirements of adult population groups and is classiﬁed by the 1985FAO/WHO/UNU expert consultation
50 as sedentary or light activity (1.53), active
or moderately active (1.76) or vigorous or vigorously active (2.25), depending onone’s occupational and leisure time activity. The 24-hour PAL is based on thephysical effort demanded by occupational work and the effort expended in leisuretime activity. The PAL can be used to calculate energy requirements by multiplyingthe PAL by an individual’s BMR using the examples below:
•Sedentary or light activity:  If this PAL was from a female population, 30
to 50 years old, with mean weight of 55 kg and mean BMR of 5.40 MJ·d
–1
(1,290 kcal·d–1), TEE = 1.53 × 5.40 = 8.26 MJ (1,975 kcal), or 150 kJ
(36 kcal·kg–1·d–1).
•Active or moderately active:  If this PAL was from a female population,
20 to 25 years old, with mean weight of 57 kg and mean BMR of 5.60MJ·d
–1 (1,338 kcal·d–), TEE = 1.76 × 5.60 = 9.86 MJ (2,355 kcal), or 173
kJ (41 kcal·kg–1·d–1).
•Vigorous or vigorously active:  If this PAL was from a male population,
20 to 25 years old, with mean weight of 70 kg and mean BMR of 7.30MJ·d
–1 (1,745 kcal·d–1), TEE = 2.25 × 7.30 = 16.42 MJ (3,925 kcal), or
235 kJ (56 kcal·kg–1·d–1).
The lack of information as to the type, duration, and frequency of activities resultingin the expended energy, as well potential errors with estimating resting metabolic rate,challenge the utility of the PAL. The expense of the isotopes and mass spectrometryanalysis may limit this method of assessing EE exclusively to research settings. 
b. Labeled Bicarbonate
The labeled bicarbonate (NaH
14CO3) method, which is very similar to DLW, has
been used to measure free-living total daily EE over shorter observation periods
(e.g., days) than in studies of DLW.51 A known amount of isotope is infused at a
constant rate that will eventually be diluted by the body’s CO2 pool. Labeled carbons
are recovered from expired air, blood, urine, or saliva. Metabolic VCO2 is determined
from the degree to which the isotope was diluted. Total EE can be calculated fromVCO
2 based on assumptions made about RQ. Controlled experimental studies of
this method have demonstrated EE estimates within <6% of that measured in arespiratory chamber.
51,52 Labeled bicarbonate measures of EE are limited by similar
concerns as described for the DLW method. 7950_C006.fm  Page 168  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 169
2. Indirect Measures of Energy Expenditure
a. Oxygen Uptake
Activity-related EE measured with indirect calorimetry procedures is based on
assumed relations between oxygen uptake and the caloric cost of substrate oxida-tion.
12,13,42 Based on the gas concentrations and volume of expired air, rates of VCO2
and VO2 can be determined. RQ is typically estimated by the respiratory exchange
ratio (RER) as VCO2/ VO2. Then VO2 and RQ can be used to estimate EE in kcal
according to Weir’s equation.53
EE (kcal) = VO2 (3.9 +1.1 RQ) (6.1)
Differences between actual and estimated RQ can result because of unreliable
assumptions regarding the caloric cost of speciﬁc substrate oxidation, bicarbonatebuffering of metabolic CO
2 during exercise and post-exercise oxygen consumption
kinetics. Therefore, measured RQ, which involves urinary nitrogen collection,42 is
required for precise estimates of activity-related EE using indirect calorimetry methods. 
It is likely that free-living activity patterns are altered during laboratory simu-
lations, methods for performing indirect calorimetry outside the laboratory setting.These techniques are based on the same principles described above and utilize small,portable, indirect calorimeters that integrate O
2 and CO2 analyzers, a ventilation
ﬂow-volume meter and a microcomputer to process expired air collected through aﬁtted hood, face mask, or mouthpiece.
54 Devices such as the Cosmed K4b have
allowed for ﬁeld assessment of VO2 and, thus, measures of gross activity-related EE
during a variety of free-living activities.55,56 Cost issues, the necessity of wearing
cumbersome and obtrusive instrumentation, the potential for altered patterns ofphysical activity and lack of testing under a variety of ﬁeld settings limit theusefulness of this approach to measuring free-living activity related EE outside ofthe research setting. 
b. Heart Rate
Activity-related EE has been estimated from HR based on the assumption of a strong
linear relation between HR and VO
2.57,58 However, variation in the HR–VO2 rela-
tionship during low- and very high-intensity PA and considerable between-personHR–VO
2 variability59,60 have led some researchers to recommend using individual
HR–VO2 calibration curves to estimate activity related EE.60,61 One such method
requires establishing a heart rate “threshold” prior to estimating activity-related EEfrom the HR–VO
2 calibration curve.62 This threshold is referred to as the “FLEX
HR” and is determined from laboratory-based indirect calorimetry studies at variouswork intensities. Activities eliciting an HR below the FLEX HR are assigned anactivity-related energy cost based on resting EE. Activities eliciting an HR abovethe FLEX HR are assigned an activity-related energy cost using the individualHR–VO
2 calibration curve. Other techniques have been used to estimate activity-
related EE from the HR response during physical activity.60,63,64
Correlations of 0.53 and 0.73 have been reported between total EE estimated
from DLW and HR values based on individual HR–VO2 calibrations.65 Although7950_C006.fm  Page 169  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

170 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
activity-related EE estimates based on individual HR–VO2 curves correlate reason-
ably well with an objective EE measure such as DLW, measurement variability is
high. Livingstone et al.62 reported differences scores of –22% to +52% between total
EE estimated from DLW and FLEX HR. However, Strath et al.64 showed a strong
correlation between activity-related EE estimated from HR reserve and indirectcalorimetry (r = 0.87; SEE 0.76 METs) among adults performing moderate-intensity
lifestyle activities. Energy expenditure estimates based on relative vs. absolute HRmeasures may reduce between-person sources of variation related with age, sex, andﬁtness level, which may improve the precision of estimating activity-related EE fromHR responses during physical activity.
The HR–VO
2 relationship is not linear during low- and very high-intensity
activity.32,59 Because many daily activities are low to moderate intensity,15 HR mon-
itoring may not provide precise estimates of habitual daily activity-related EE underfree-living conditions. Imprecise estimates of activity-related EE may also be attrib-uted to several factors that inﬂuence HR without having substantial effects on oxygenuptake, such as day-to-day HR variability, body temperature, size of the activity
muscle mass (e.g., upper vs. lower body), type of exercise (static vs. dynamic), stress
and medication.
7,13,32 The need to develop individual HR–VO2 calibration curves and
instrumentation costs ($150 per unit) make HR monitoring a less suitable surrogateactivity-related EE outside the research setting. HR measurements may best beutilized as part of an integrated physical activity and heart rate monitoring system(e.g., Actiheart) rather than as a single measure of activity-related EE among free-living individuals.
66
c. Body Temperature and Ventilation
Because a close relationship between EE and core body temperature and ventilation
has been reported under laboratory conditions,13 continuous monitoring of these
variables could provide a means of extrapolating activity-related EE under certainconditions. However, body temperature and ventilation measures of EE may belimited by time requirements, several confounding factors, and inconvenient mea-surement techniques.
7 Similar to HR, these measurements may best be utilized as
part of an integrated monitoring system rather than as single measures of activity-related EE among free-living individuals.
66 
B. M EASURING  PHYSICAL  ACTIVITY
1. Direct Measures of Physical Activity
a. Physical Activity Records
Physical activity records are detailed accounts of activity types and patterns recorded
in diary format during a deﬁned period of time.6 Their level of detail ranges from
recording each activity and its associated duration67 to recording activities performed
at speciﬁed time intervals (e.g., every 15 minutes).68 Respondents record information
about the type (e.g., sleep, running, weightlifting), purpose (e.g., exercise, transpor-tation), duration (e.g., minutes), self-rated intensity (light, moderate, vigorous),and body position (reclining, sitting, standing, walking) for every activity com-pleted within a deﬁned observation period (typically 24 hours). Seasonal records7950_C006.fm  Page 170  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 171
(e.g., winter, summer) can be kept to obtain information about habitual physical
activity levels and patterns and related seasonal variations in these behaviors.20,21
Because entries are recorded in the activity record at the time the behavior is
executed, there is little concern over the effects of recall bias on the precision ofquantifying activity-related EE. A completed physical activity record including codesfrom the Compendium of Physical Activities  would be used to assign an energy cost
to each activity for scoring purposes. Once scored, the physical activity recordprovides a detailed account of the minutes spent and estimated energy expended invarious types, intensities, and patterns of physical activity. The physical activityrecord is a highly objective and reproducible method
69 of tracking the speciﬁc types
(e.g., walking, running, occupation) and patterns (e.g., single continuous bouts,sporadic intermittent bouts) of activity that account for individual or population (e.g.,entire sport teams) activity-related EE. For example, an athlete thought to be in achronic negative energy balance could complete a series of physical activity records
over a deﬁned time frame, from which estimates of total EE as well as activity-
speciﬁc EE can be obtained. It may be discovered that the athlete in question isexpending a large amount of energy in non-sport activities (e.g., occupational orrecreational activity) that are not being met with a compensatory increase in energyintake. Using data from the activity record, nutritional counseling, and trainingmodiﬁcations can be implemented to reestablish energy balance in this athlete. 
Physical activity records have been used in ﬁeld settings to obtain comprehensive
detailed accounts of free-living physical activities and related EE.
18,41,67,69–73  Various
forms of physical activity records are accessible on the World Wide Web to monitorone’s exercise patterns (i.e., American Heart Association’s Just Move Program ).
74
The precision of physical activity record’s measurement of free-living EE has beenstudied. Conway et al.
41 reported a difference of only 7.9 ± 32% between a 7-day
physical activity record and doubly labeled water estimates of free-living activity-related EE in men. Richardson et al.
75 observed moderate to strong age-adjusted
correlations (r = 0.35 – 0.68) between total MET-min per day of EE from the physical
activity record and an electronic accelerometer among free-living men and women.Physical activity records have also been used to study activity patterns among free-living individuals. Ainsworth et al.
67 characterized the types and patterns of physical
activity and related EE among Caucasian, African-American, and Native Americanwomen living in the southeastern and southwestern regions of the U.S. as a part ofthe NIH-funded Women’s Health Initiative.
76 Data from the physical activity record
were then used to develop population-speciﬁc physical activity surveys that wouldprecisely measure habitual daily activity-related EE among these population sub-groups of women. Focus groups
24 or individual debrieﬁng pertaining to recorded
information have been used to enhance the richness and interpretation of data gleanedfrom physical activity records. Together, these methods can be used to obtain infor-mation required to identify athletes at risk for overtraining,
2,77 chronic energy imbal-
ance,5 and related declines in athletic performance and overall health status.2,4,5,78 
Similar to their dietary counterpart aimed at assessing energy intake,79 physical
activity records provide a very detailed and comprehensive method of assessing animportant determinant of energy balance. As with dietary records, feasibility is limitedby cost, the potential for altered behavior, and administrative burden on the practitioner7950_C006.fm  Page 171  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

172 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
and participant. For these reasons, physical activity records may best be suited for use
with individuals considered to be at high risk for energy imbalance or as a criterionmeasure for validating simpler ﬁeld surveys of physical activity and related EE.
b. Movement Monitors
The use of mechanical and electronic body-worn motion sensors as a direct
measure of free-living physical activity has become increasingly popular.
7,80,81
Energy expen diture is often extrapolated from the activity data under the assumption
that movement (or acceleration) of the limbs and torso is closely related to whole-body activity-related EE.
32 There are several types of motion sensors that differ in
cost, technology, and data output (Figure 3). 
i. Pedometers 
Pedometers have gained widespread popularity in research and practice settings toquantify ambulation in terms of accumulated steps in free-living settings. Pedometersare small, inexpensive devices (~$20) used to directly quantify ambulatory activityin terms of accumulated steps per unit of time (e.g., per day).
6,8 Battery-operated
digital pedometers (e.g., Yamax Digiwalker) are smaller and may be more reliablethan earlier models.
82,83 Pedometers are worn at the waist and are triggered by the
vertical accelerations of the hip that cause a horizontal spring-suspended level armto move up and down. Movement of the lever arm opens and closes an electricalcircuit. Each time the circuit closes, a “step” is counted. Step registration, in theory,should reﬂect only the vertical forces of the hip; however, any vertical force throughthe hip are (e.g., sitting down hard onto a chair) can trigger the device. An estimateof distance walked is obtained by calibrating the pedometer to an individual’s stridelength during a short walking trial over a known distance; however, distance esti-mates are less valid than the direct measurement of steps.
82,83
Pedometers have demonstrated reasonable precision for use in research and
clinical settings where walking is the primary type of physical activity.54,81,82,84–87
Correlations of r = 0.84–0.9384 and r = 0.48 – 0.8055 have been reported between
pedometer steps per day and EE estimates from electronic accelerometers. Investi-gators have also shown pedometer steps per day to be moderately correlated withmeasured oxygen uptake (r = 0.49
55) and self-reported total daily activity-related EE
(r = 0.21 to 0.4981,88). Moreover, their ease of administration makes pedometers a
practical assessment tool for individuals encompassing nearly all age groups.31,89,90
Finally, pedometers have the ability to promote behavior change and have beenincreasingly used in intervention settings as an intervention tool.
91–93
A major limitation to using pedometers as an objective ﬁeld measure of
activity-related EE is that pedometers lack temporal information on the type,duration, and intensity of activities performed while steps were being recorded.
7,32
Although some pedometers include an estimate of net EE based on an assumedrelation of about 100 kcal per mile walked, empirical data is lacking as to theprecision of these estimates compared with measured EE.
83 Similar to other motion
sensors, pedometers do not have the capability to quantify upper body movements94
and have difﬁculty accurately assessing activity levels in individuals moving atslower speeds.
827950_C006.fm  Page 172  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 173
Because researchers recommend using the “raw steps” data as opposed to dis-
tance traveled or estimated EE to represent ambulatory activity,94 pedometry may
not be a suitable method of assessing activity-related EE among athletes. Pedometers
may, however, serve as an inexpensive method of monitoring ambulatory activityamong athletes who are rehabilitating sport-related injuries wherein walking is amajor part of the rehabilitation, or is being restricted due to the speciﬁc natureof the injury. Used in conjunction with a detailed self-report of physical activity(e.g., activity log), pedometers may provide a simple, cost-effective way to monitor
both the quantity and quality of certain types of physical activity.
ii. Accelerometers 
Accelerometers are small, battery-operated electronic motion sensors that, in theory,measure the rate and magnitude of that which the body’s center of mass displacesduring movement. Accelerometers are typically worn at the waist and measuremovement in single (uniaxial — Actigraph) or multiple planes (triaxial — Tritrac)by way of piezoelectric signaling. Activity or EE data are stored in solid-state
memory for computer downloading and processing at a later time. Solid-state tech-
nology integrates and sums the absolute value and frequency of acceleration forcesover a deﬁned observation period. Data is output as an activity “count,” an approx-imation of both the number of independent forces detected and their accelerationRegression equations have been developed from controlled laboratory experimentsto allow for the estimation of activity-related EE from the integral of accelerometercount.
95–99 
The Actigraph, formerly known as Computer Science and Applications (CSA)
and Manufacturing Technology Inc. (MTI) (Actigraph, LLC Fort Walton Beach, FL)has become increasingly popular for ﬁeld studies of physical activity and EE becauseof its small size and ability for time-interval sampling (e.g., minute by minute) anddata storage. Data are presented as counts per unit sampling time, and regressionequations have been developed to estimate EE from raw count data.
95,96,99 These
equations were generated from controlled studies of treadmill exercise or limitedsimulations of lifestyle physical activities. The most common equations are thosedeveloped by Freedson et al.,
95,100 which are preprogrammed into the unit: 
METs = 1.439008 + (0.000795 × counts·min–1) (6.2)
kcal·min–1 = (0.00094 × counts·min–1) + (0.1346 × mass in kg) (6.3)
The precision of each equation was R2 = 0.82 (SEE = 1.12 METs) for METs and
R2 = 0.82 (SEE = 1.4 kcal·min–1) for kilocalories during treadmill exercise at 80,
106, and 162 m·min–1.95
Several studies have assessed the ability of the Actigraph to determine activity-
related EE.55,80,96,99–103 Actigraph counts have varied signiﬁcantly with monitor place-
ment at three different ipsilateral hip locations.80 Melanson and Freedson100 showed
Actigraph counts·min–1 were correlated with VO2 during treadmill walking (r = 0.82),
but unrelated to treadmill grade (r = 0.03). Actigraph counts·min–1 were sensitive to
changes in ambulatory velocity across three walking speeds (p < 0.0001) but inter-7950_C006.fm  Page 173  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

174 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
instrument reliability was substantially lower during slower (53 m·min–1, R = 0.55)
vs. faster (107 m·min–1, R = 0.91).102 Correlations between VO2 and Actigraph
counts·min–1 have been stronger during controlled laboratory activity (e.g., r = 0.80
to 0.95)80,100 than during simulated or actual ﬁeld conditions or lifestyle activities (e.g.,
r = 0.40 to 0.60).80,101 Hendelman et al.96 showed large differences (e.g., 30–57%)
between measured and predicted METs for a variety of daily lifestyle activities.
Regression equations used to estimate EE from lifestyle activities have shown lowerprecision (R
2 = 0.32 − 0.35, SEE = 0.96 to 1.2 METs)96,99 compared with equations
from controlled laboratory activity (R2 = 0.82–0.89, SEE = 1.1 METs).95,102 Discrep-
ancies in the time spent (e.g., min·day–1) in deﬁned EE categories were large between
detailed physical activity logs and Actigraph data based on cutpoints derived fromthree different regression equations.
101 These issues and other topics related to the
use of accelerometers was the topic of a consensus conference held in 2004 withthe proceedings published in a supplement issue of Medicine and Science in Sports
and Exercise.
103 
The Tritrac (Hemokinetics Inc., Madison, WI) is a triaxial accelerometer that
provides count data for the anterior-posterior, medial-lateral, and vertical planes, aswell as an integrated vector magnitude (Vmag) of counts for all three planes com-bined. Energy expenditure can be estimated through regression equations thataccount for body mass and resting EE. Resting EE is calculated as follows:
98
Men: (0.00473 × wt kg) + (0.00971 × ht cm) – (0.00513 × age yr) + 0.04687
(6.4)
Women: (0.00331 × wt kg) + (0.00352 × ht cm) – (0.00513 × age yr) + 0.49854
(6.5)
A regression equation (R2 = 0.90, SEE = 0.014 kcal·kg–1·min–1 has been developed
during treadmill walking and running to estimate activity-related EE from the TritracVmag:
98 
kcal·kg–1·min–1 = 0.018673 + (0.000029051 × Vmag·min–1) (6.6)
Oddly, the preceding regression equation predicts EE using a triaxial monitor basedon experimental activity that results in acceleration from essentially one plane (e.g.,vertical). Measurement in three planes should theoretically account for more sourcesof bodily movement and therefore provide more precise estimates of activity-relatedEE, particularly under lifestyle conditions. Studies have shown that triaxial deviceshave only slightly better correlations with both laboratory (r
triaxial = 0.84 – 0.93 vs.
runiaxial  = 0.76 – 0.85) and lifestyle activity (rtriaxial = 0.59 – 0.62 vs. runiaxial  = 0.48 – 0.59)
related EE.80,96 
Numerous types of accelerometers are available for use to assess physical activity
(e.g., Sensewear [Bodymedia; Pittsburgh], AMP [Dynastream Innovations;Cochrane, Alberta,], Actiwatch and Actical [Minimitter Physiological and BehavioralMonitoring; Bend, Oregon], Stepwatch [Cyma Corporation; Mountlake Terrace, CA]).While all brands provide data about human movement or energy expenditure, the7950_C006.fm  Page 174  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 175
sensitivity and utility of the information obtained may vary by instrument. In general,
accelerometers can be used to assess frequency, duration, and intensity of physicalactivity, however, the speciﬁc type of physical activity is unknown. Accelerometerstend to overestimate walking-related EE and underestimate lifestyle activity-relatedEE. Furthermore, activity-related EE owed to upper extremities or increased resis-tance to body movement (e.g., uphill walking) is not accounted for. Subject com-pliance issues, potentially altered physical activity patterns and the cost of moresophisticated instruments (uniaxial ~$300, triaxial ~$550 per unit) limit the practi-cality of using accelerometers to measure activity-related EE among free-livingathletes. If used together with a detailed activity log, accelerometers may be usefulto quantify physical activity patterns and their related EE for an athlete at high riskfor energy imbalance.
2. Indirect Measures of Physical Activity
a. Physical Activity Recalls
Physical activity recalls are typically conduced as interviews (telephone or in person)
and are aimed at detailing an individual’s activity level during the past 24 hours orlonger.
6 Activity recalls are similar to physical activity records in that they can
identify the type, duration, purpose, and related EE of activities performed duringthe recall frame. The physical activity recall was developed after methods used inthe 24-hr recalls and takes from 20–45 minutes to complete.
79,104 Multiple random
24-hr activity recalls have been used to proﬁle activity patterns and estimate EEamong adults in a 1-year cohort study of blood lipid variability
104 and to validate a
global physical activity questionnaire.105 In the blood lipid study by Matthews et
al.104 the range of test–retest reliability coefﬁcients for the 24-hr recall was very
large and the magnitude of the coefﬁcients was moderate at best (r = 0.22 to 0.58).
Criterion validity correlations between total MET-hr·d–1 from the 24-hr recalls and
activity data from an electronic accelerometer were r = 0.74 and r = 0.32 for men
and women, respectively. Based on the feasibility, reasonable reliability and validity,minimal participant effort, and potential reductions in response bias and alteredactivity patterns during assessment, the researchers advocated using the 24-hr recallsto assess activity-related EE among free-living populations. However, this methodmay not be suitable in populations with limited telephone access, may be hamperedby individuals who are unwilling or unable to complete the phone interview and mayutilize a time frame (e.g., past 24 hr) that does not capture an individual’s truehabitual physical activity pattern or level. On the other hand, this method may beuseful during tapering periods of the yearly training plan, where small acute changesin an athlete’s total exercise volume and its associated energy requirements mightbe highly inﬂuential on performance in an upcoming competition.
b. Physical Activity Logs
A modiﬁed version of the physical activity record is the physical activity log. These
instruments aim to provide detailed accounts of habitual daily activities, their asso-ciated duration, and EE.
6 The activity log is structured as a checklist of activities
speciﬁc to the target population’s usual activity patterns.6,24,101 The Bouchard Physical7950_C006.fm  Page 175  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

176 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
Activity Log68 is designed to allow respondents to check the type and intensity of
activity they are performing every 15 minutes during a speciﬁc period. The
Ainsworth Physical Activity Log79 is a modiﬁable form that includes a list of 20 to
50 activities that reﬂect population-speciﬁc PA interests (Figure 6.3). At the end ofthe day, respondents complete the single-page checklist by identifying the type andduration of activities performed that day. Activity-related EE is computed by assign-ing intensity values from the Compendium of Physical Activities to each activity
selected by the respondent. The log takes only a few minutes to complete and canbe quickly scored to provide information about the type, time, and estimated energycost of physical activities performed during speciﬁed periods (e.g., 7 days). Summaryscores for daily activity-related EE (e.g., MET min·day
–1) or for speciﬁc categories of
activity (e.g., exercise or sport, sleep, occupation) can be tracked for individual orgroups of athletes. Because the log is completed at the end of the day, the degreeof recall bias associated with this method of quantifying activity-related EE is likelyhigher than with the physical activity record, but considerably less than more tradi-tional approaches (e.g., questionnaires).
106
Physical activity logs may be more convenient to complete and process than
physical activity records as they are less time consuming for the respondent andcontain less information for data processing. Alternatively, activity logs may under-estimate actual activity-related EE if participants engage in activities other than thoselisted on the log. 
c. Physical Activity Questionnaires
Self-report questionnaires are the most frequently used method of assessing physical
activity levels among free-living individuals. Based on their level of detail and subjectburden, activity questionnaires are generally classiﬁed as global, recall, and quantitativehistory instruments.
6,13 Table 6.3 provides a list of questionnaires that have been used
to estimate physical activity and EE in various studies. To date, there has been no self-reported physical activity questionnaires designed speciﬁcally for athletic populations.
i. Global Questionnaires 
Global activity questionnaires are typically one to four items long and provide anestimate of an individual’s general physical activity level (Figure 6.3). They are shortand easy to complete, but global questionnaires provide little detail on speciﬁc typesand patterns of physical activity. Therefore, global questionnaires allow for onlysimple classiﬁcations of activity status (e.g., active vs. inactive)
107,126 and do not
generally allow for precise assessment of activity-related EE. Global questionnairesare preferred in physical activity surveillance systems
112 where samples sizes are
very large, administrative time is limited, and the goal for assessment may be tomerely classify respondents as inactive or active at levels recommended for healthbeneﬁts. The accuracy and reproducibility of global activity instruments have beenreported.
29,101,108 Age-adjusted test–retest correlations of 0.90 and 0.81 for men and
women, respectively, and an age-sex-adjusted coefﬁcient of determination of 0.29between the activity score and maximal aerobic capacity have been reported for thetwo-point (e.g., active vs. inactive) Lipid Research Clinic’s global activity ques-tion.
108 Lack of detail on the type, frequency, duration, and intensity of physical
activity render global questionnaires inadequate for estimating activity-related EE.7950_C006.fm  Page 176  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 177
TABLE 6.3
Self-Report Questionnaires Used to Quantify Levels of Physical Activity 
and Energy Expenditure in Free-Living Populations
Method/QuestionnairePhysical Activity 
DomainsRecall 
Time 
FrameExpression of 
Physical Activity 
Score Reference
Global
Lipid Research Clinics JOB, EX Usual day 2- and 4-point 
scaleSiscovick et al. 
1988107
Ainsworth et al. 
1993108
Minnesota Heart Health EX, JOB General MET·min–1·d–1 Sidney et al. 
1991109
Stanford Usual MOD & VIG 
Lifestyle PAUsual Day MOD – 6 point 
scale
VIG – 5 point 
scaleSallis et al. 198530
Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System (BRFSS) OccupationalJOB Usual Day 1-item selection Yore et al. 2006
110
Short Telephone Activity 
Recall (STAR)MOD & VIG 
Lifestyle PAUsual Week min·wk−1Matthews et al. 
2005105
Recall Questionnaires Baecke Habitual 
Physical ActivityJOB, EX, LEIS General Indices for Work, 
Sport, Leisure, TotalBaecke et al. 
1982
111
Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System (BRFSS)MOD & VIG 
Lifestyle PAUsual Week 3-point scale Macera et al. 
2000
112
International Physical 
Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) – Short FormMOD & VIG 
Lifestyle PA, WALK, INACPast 7 Days 3-point scale Craig et al. 2003
113
IPAQ – Long Form JOB, HH, 
EX/REC/LEIS TRANS, INACPast 7 Days 3-point scale Craig et al. 2003
113
Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System (BRFSS) WalkingLifestyle WALK Usual Week 3-point scale Addy et al. 2004
114
Occupational Physical 
Activity Questionnaire (OPAQ)JOB Usual week hr·wk
−1Reis et al. 2005115
Stanford 7-Day Recall JOB, EX, LEIS Past 7 Days kcal·kg−1·d−1Blair et al. 1985116
College Alumnus EX, LEIS, STAIR Past 7 Days kcal·wk−1Paffenbarger, 
1978117
Kuopio 7-Day Recall EX Past 7 Days kcal·wk−1 Lakka et al. 
1992118
(Continued )7950_C006.fm  Page 177  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

178 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
ii. Recall Questionnaires 
Recall instruments are more burdensome (7–20 items) to complete than their global
counterparts, but these questionnaires ask for details on the frequency, duration, andtypes of physical activity performed during the past day, week, or month (Figure 6.3).Scoring systems vary among recall questionnaires, ranging from simple ordinalscales (e.g., 1–5 representing low to high levels of physical activity),
111 to compre-
hensive summary scores of continuous data (e.g, kcal, kJ, or MET·min·d–1).88,116,127
The advantage of the latter measure is the ability to quantify time spent (e.g., min·d–1)
performing speciﬁc physical activities, as well as their related EE.
Recall surveys have demonstrated acceptable levels of accuracy and repeatabil-
ity.29,70,73,88,116,128 The International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) is an
example of a recall questionnaire that has both short and long versions.113 The IPAQTABLE 6.3 (CONTINUED)Self-Report Questionnaires Used to Quantify Levels of Physical Activity 
and Energy Expenditure in Free-Living Populations
Method/QuestionnairePhysical Activity 
DomainsRecall 
Time 
FrameExpression of 
Physical Activity 
Score Reference
Kuopio Occupational JOB Typical Day kcal·d−1Lakka et al. 
1992118
Typical Week Survey JOB, EX, LEIS, 
TRAN, HHTypical 
week in 
past monthMET·min−1·d−1Ainsworth et al. 
200070
Quantitative History:
Minnesota Leisure Time EX, SP, LEIS, HH Past Year AMI·d−1 Taylor et al. 
1978119
Tecumseh Occupation JOB, TRANS Past Year MET-hr·wk−1 Montoye et al. 
1971120
Modiﬁable Activity 
Questionnaire EX, LEIS, JOB, 
TRANPast Year MET-hr·wk−1Kriska et al. 
1990121
Modiﬁable Activity 
Questionnaire for 
AdolescentsEX Past Year MET-hr·wk−1Aaron et al. 
1995122
Kuopio Leisure Time EX, LEIS Past Year kcal·mon−1Lakka et al. 
1993123
CHAMPS EX, LEIS, INAC, HH Past 4 
weeksKcal·wk−1
Frequency/weekStewart et al. 
2001124
Historical PA SP, LEIS Lifetime Ordinal Scale in 
hr·wk−1 and 
kcal·wk−1Kriska et al. 
1988125
EX = Exercise; LEIS = Leisure; JOB = Occupational; INAC = Inactivity; TRAN = Transportation;
HH = Household and Yard; STAIR = Stair Climbing; MOD = Moderate Intensity; VIG = Vigorous;
PA = Physical Activity, SP = Sport, AMI = Activity Metabolic Index.7950_C006.fm  Page 178  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 179
questionnaires are printed in various languages and are available for download at
www.ipaq.ki.se.129 The short version of the IPAQ has seven items that assess the
duration (hr·d–1) and frequency (d·wk–1) spent in occupational-, moderate- and vigorous-
intensity lifestyle physical activities, walking activities, and inactivity. Spearmancorrelations are on the order of 0.66 to 0.88 for 1-week test-retest reliability and0.02 to 0.47 for validity as compared with the Actigraph accelerometer.
113 The long
version of the IPAQ separates the various domains of physical activity (i.e. occupa tional,
household, transportation, walking, moderate- and vigorous-intensity exercise activ-ity, and inactivity). Spearman rank order correlations for the long form were 0.70to 0.91 for 1-week test–retest reliability and 0.05 to 0.52 for validity as comparedwith the Actigraph accelerometer.
113 
With regard to other recall questionnaires, the 1-month test–retest correlations
for activity-related EE computed from self-reported walking, stair climbing, andsport activity were 0.61 and 0.75 for men and women, respectively, who completed
the College Alumnus questionnaire.
128 Criterion validity correlations between
activity-related EE and an accelerometer METs·d–1 and kcal·d–1 were 0.29 and 0.17,
respectively for all participants. Richardson et al.73 observed age-adjusted test–retest
correlations of 0.60 and 0.36 for total MET·min·d–1 of EE among men and women,
respectively, who completed the Stanford 7-Day Activity Recall twice over 26 days
apart. Age-adjusted criterion validity correlations for total daily EE between the7-day recall and the accelerometer were 0.54 and 0.20 for men and women, respec-
tively and, between the 7-day recall and 48-hr physical activity records, were 0.58and 0.32 for men and women, respectively. 
Recall surveys typically do a poor job of assessing non-occupational, non-leisure
activity-related EE (e.g., household or transportation),
7,29,88 which may be particu-
larly relevant sources of health-related EE among women and minorities24,130 and
may partially explain the lower correlations between self-reported and objectivelymeasured activity levels among women. Ainsworth et al.
70 have reported data from
a comprehensive Typical Week Survey administered to middle-aged minoritywomen. This survey is very detailed and requires respondents to recall frequencyand duration of several types of activities including items for house and family care,exercise and sport, and occupation. Age-adjusted test–retest correlations were 0.43and 0.68 summary scores for total, light, moderate, and vigorous MET-min·d
–1 of
activity-related EE, and age-adjusted criterion validity correlations were 0.45 and0.54 between detailed physical activity records and logs and the activity summaryscores. Despite being one of the most detailed and comprehensive recall question-naires, the validity and reliability characteristics of the Typical Week ActivitySurvey
70 were similar or better than other more frequently used recall question-
naires.73,111,116,127 
There are two primary limitations to physical activity recall instruments. First,
the physical activity estimate is subject to errors in recall that may result in biasedmeasures of activity-related EE.
131–133 This bias seems to be intensity-related in that
recall error is typically highest for light- and moderate-intensity physical activitiesthat are habitual in nature (e.g., walking, housework).
29,73,104,132 This may be par-
ticularly relevant when trying to quantify activity-related EE among athletic pop-ulations who have little trouble remembering planned bouts of vigorous sports7950_C006.fm  Page 179  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

180 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
activity, but pay little attention to other sources of habitual daily EE (e.g., walking
on campus or at work) that may contribute substantially to an individual’s totalenergy requirements. Second, the structure of the instrument may not includerelevant population-speciﬁc sources of activity-related EE, which would likely leadto an under-representation of an individual’s actual physical activity level andrelated EE.
7,9
iii. Quantitative History Questionnaires
Quantitative histories (Figure 6.3) are detailed (e.g., >20 items) records of thefrequency and duration of leisure-time or occupational physical activities over thepast year
119,120 or lifetime.125 Activity scores are usually expressed as a continuous
variable (e.g., kcal·kg–1·min–1), allowing for the evaluation of activity-related EE.
The most frequently used quantitative history is the Minnesota Leisure Time PhysicalActivity Questionnaire (MNLTPA),
119 which uses a 1-year recall frame to identify
the frequency (events per year) and average duration (hr or min per event) of 74activity items in categories of walking, conditioning, hunting and ﬁshing, water,winter, sports, home repair, and household maintenance activities. Richardson etal.
75 reported age-adjusted 1-year test–retest correlations for total, light, moderate,
and heavy MET-min·d–1 of activity-related EE of 0.69, 0.60, 0.32, and 0.71, respec-
tively, among adults responding to the MNLTPA. These investigators also showedage-adjusted criterion validity correlations of 0.75. 0.72. 0.70 and 0.75 betweenMNLTPA and 4-week activity history summary scores of total, light, moderate, andheavy MET-min·d
–1.
Similar to the “remote diet recall” used to assess past dietary habits,79 quantitative
activity histories are useful in settings where investigators and practitioners areinterested in detailing activity-related EE patterns over long periods of time (e.g.,12 months). The intensive administrative burden (e.g., 60 min) and recall effortrequired by the respondent limits the feasibility of these instruments.
V. MEASURES OF PHYSICAL INACTIVITY
Physical inactivity is deﬁned as a state in which body movement is minimal.134
Inactivity can be categorized into behaviors that are modiﬁable, such as televisionviewing and recreational computer use vs. necessary sedentary behaviors such assleeping, sitting while engaging in homework (children), or occupational activities.Although the U.S. Surgeon General has determined that physical inactivity is a majorhealth risk factor for various chronic diseases, the quantiﬁcation of physical inactivityhas received far less attention than physical activity participation. Furthermore, thereis limited published evidence in current literature regarding the reliability and validityof measures that can be used to accurately assess sedentary behavior.
135
Researchers often focus on modiﬁable sedentary activities when quantifying
physical inactivity. In both children and adults, researchers often examine the averageamount of time spent viewing television or videos and playing computer/videogames, and sometimes even include reading or napping.
135–145
There has also been considerable interest in assessing physical inactivity through
the use of objective monitoring, such as accelerometers.105 As mentioned previously,7950_C006.fm  Page 180  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 181
accelerometers have the capability of providing information relating to patterns of
physical activity. Data is output as counts per minute, which is an expression ofchange in acceleration during a 1-minute time period. Therefore, a count of zeromay indicate time spent in sedentary activity, especially if zero counts are accumu-lated over longer periods of time. For example, zero counts accumulated over a 30-minute span may indicate that the individual was inactive during that time period.However, since a zero count may also be reﬂective of removal of the monitor, thisinformation should be used with caution. The use of a supplemental activity diaryindicating wear time may allow the investigator to better differentiate betweenmonitor removal or inactivity. 
VI. SUMMARY
Many direct and indirect methods are available to measure physical activity and itsrelated EE under free-living conditions. These measurements exist along a continuumof precision, cost, and administrative burdens. Sophisticated laboratory measures ofEE are not feasible for studying large numbers of individuals under free-livingconditions, but may not be appropriate to evaluate individual athletes thought to beat high risk for energy imbalance and the related consequences on performance andhealth parameters. The utility of direct laboratory procedures for measuring EE asa means of validating ﬁeld techniques for assessing activity-related EE, however,should not be understated. 
Field measures are often used to assess activity-related EE with an acknowledged
trade-off between precision and practicality. Each method is limited by between-and within-person variation in the measured variable, as well as ancillary factorsthat may confound each method’s true association with activity-related EE. Portableindirect calorimeters may be the most accurate indirect method for assessing activity-related EE in the ﬁeld, but costs, restricted movement, and the potential for alteredusual behavior limit using this technique as the gold-standard ﬁeld measure. Devel-opment of small, non-obtrusive integrated systems that employ multiple indirectmeasures of activity-related EE (e.g., HR, body temperature, ventilation, accelera-tion, steps) may improve the accuracy and feasibility of estimating EE under ﬁeldconditions. Physical activity records and questionnaires are the least expensive andleast burdensome methods that allow for detailed assessment of activity-related EEunder free-living conditions, although how well an instrument represents population-speciﬁc activity behaviors and recall biases are concerns. Use of standardized meth-ods for assigning energy costs to self-reported (e.g., activity log, recall questionnaire)or objectively measured (e.g., accelerometer), free-living physical activities willimprove the accuracy and reproducibility of these ﬁeld measures.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to acknowledge Kristi L. Storti, PhD, for her contributionto this chapter. 7950_C006.fm  Page 181  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

182 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
REFERENCES
1.Physical Activity and Health: A Report of the Surgeon General.  Atlanta, U.S. Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, 1996.
2. Pate, R. R. and Branch, J. D., Training for endurance sport, Med Sci Sports Exerc
24 (9 Suppl), S340–3, 1992.
3. Haskell, W. L., Dose–Response Issues from a Biological Perspective , Human Kinetics,
Champaign, IL, 1994.
4. Hill, J. O., Melby, C., Johnson, S. L., and Peters, J. C., Physical activity and energy
requirements, Am J Clin Nutr 62 (5 Suppl), 1059S–1066S, 1995.
5. Joint Position Statement: Nutrition and athletic performance. American College of
Sports Medicine, American Dietetic Association, and Dietitians of Canada, Med Sci
Sports Exerc 32 (12), 2130–45, 2000.
6. Ainsworth, B. E., Montoye, H. J., and Leon, A. S., Methods of Assessing Physical
Activity During Leisure and Work , Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL, 1994.
7. Lamonte, M. J. and Ainsworth, B. E., Quantifying energy expenditure and physical
activity in the context of dose response, Med Sci Sports Exerc 33 (6 Suppl), S370–8;
discussion S419–20, 2001.
8. Thomas, J. R. and Nelson, J. K., Research Methods in Physical Activity , 3rd ed.
Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL, 1996.
9. Ainsworth, B. E., Barrow and McGee’s Practical Measurement and Assessment , 5th
ed. Lippincott, Williams and Wilkens, Baltimore, MD, 2000.
10. Caspersen, C. J., Powell, K. E., and Christenson, G. M., Physical activity, exercise,
and physical ﬁtness: deﬁnitions and distinctions for health-related research, Public
Health Rep 100 (2), 126–31, 1985.
11. Corbin, C. B., Pangrazi, R. P., and Franks, B. D., Deﬁnitions: Health, ﬁtness and
physical activity, Res. Dig. 3, 1, 2000.
12. Brooks, G. A., Fahey, T. D., and White, T. P., Exercise Physiology: Human Bioenergetics
and its Application , 2nd edition ed. Mayﬁeld Publishing, Mountain View, CA, 1996.
13. Montoye, H. J., Kemper, H. C. G., Saris, W. H. M., and Washburn, R. A., Measuring
Physical Activity and Energy Expenditure,  Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL, 1996.
14. Ainsworth, B. E., Haskell, W. L., Leon, A. S., Jacobs, D. R., Jr., Montoye, H. J.,
Sallis, J. F., and Paffenbarger, R. S., Jr., Compendium of physical activities: Classi-ﬁcation of energy costs of human physical activities, Med Sci Sports Exerc 25 (1),
71–80, 1993.
15. Ainsworth, B. E., Haskell, W. L., Whitt, M. C., Irwin, M. L., Swartz, A. M., Strath,
S. J., O’Brien, W. L., Bassett, D. R., Jr., Schmitz, K. H., Emplaincourt, P. O., Jacobs,D. R., Jr., and Leon, A. S., Compendium of physical activities: an update of activitycodes and MET intensities, Med Sci Sports Exerc 32 (9 Suppl), S498–504, 2000.
16. American College of Sports Medicine Position Stand. The recommended quantity
and quality of exercise for developing and maintaining cardiorespiratory and muscularﬁtness, and ﬂexibility in healthy adults, Med Sci Sports Exerc 30 (6), 975–91, 1998.
17. Pate, R. R., Pratt, M., Blair, S. N., Haskell, W. L., Macera, C. A., Bouchard, C.,
Buchner, D., Ettinger, W., Heath, G. W., King, A. C., and et al., Physical activity andpublic health. A recommendation from the Centers for Disease Control and Preventionand the American College of Sports Medicine, JAMA 273 (5), 402–7, 1995.
18. Stolarczyk, L. M., Addy, C. L., Ainsworth, B. E., Chang, C., and Heyward, V .,
Accuracy of self–reported physical activity intensity in minority women., Med Sci
Sports Exerc 30 (5 (supplement)), S10, 1998.7950_C006.fm  Page 182  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 183
19. Gretebeck, R. J. and Montoye, H. J., Variability of some objective measures of
physical activity, Med Sci Sports Exerc 24 (10), 1167–72, 1992.
20. Levin, S., Jacobs, D. R., Jr., Ainsworth, B. E., Richardson, M. T., and Leon, A. S.,
Intra-individual variation and estimates of usual physical activity, Ann Epidemiol 9
(8), 481–8, 1999.
21. Uitenbroek, D. G., Seasonal variation in leisure time physical activity, Med Sci Sports
Exerc 25 (6), 755–60, 1993.
22. Robertson, R. J., Caspersen, C. J., Allison, T. G., Skrinar, G. S., Abbott, R. A., and
Metz, K. F., Differentiated perceptions of exertion and energy cost of young women
while carrying loads, Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol 49 (1), 69–78, 1982.
23. Ainsworth, B. E., Richardson, M. T., Jacobs, D. R., and Leon, A. S., Gender differ-
ences in physical activity, Women Sports Phys. Activ. J. 1, 1, 1993.
24. Henderson, K. A. and Ainsworth, B. E., Sociocultural perspectives on physical activity
in the lives of older African American and American Indian women: A cross culturalactivity participation study, Women Health 31 (1), 1–20, 2000.
25. McArdle, W. D., Katch, F. I., and Katch, V . L., Exercise physiology: Energy, nutrition
and human performance , 3rd ed. Lea & Febiger, Philadelphia, PA, 1991.
26. Howley, E. T., You asked for it. Question authority, ACSM’s Hlth Fitness J 3, 12,
1999.
27. Sparrow, W. A.,
 Energetics of Human Activity,  Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL, 2001.
28. Arroll, B. and Beaglehole, R., Potential misclassiﬁcation in studies of physical activ-
ity, Med Sci Sports Exerc 23 (10), 1176–8, 1991.
29. Jacobs, D. R., Jr., Ainsworth, B. E., Hartman, T. J., and Leon, A. S., A simultaneous
evaluation of 10 commonly used physical activity questionnaires, Med Sci Sports
Exerc 25 (1), 81–91, 1993.
30. Sallis, J. F., Haskell, W. L., Wood, P. D., Fortmann, S. P., Rogers, T., Blair, S. N.,
and Paffenbarger, R. S., Jr., Physical activity assessment methodology in the Five-City Project, Am J Epidemiol 121 (1), 91–106, 1985.
31. Bassett, D. R., Validity and reliability in objective monitoring of physical activity,
Res. Q. Exerc. Sport. 71, 30, 2000.
32. Freedson, P. S. and Miller, K., Objective monitoring of physical activity using motion
sensors and heart rate., Res. Q. Exerc. Sport. 71, 21, 2000.
33. Washburn, R. A. and Montoye, H. J., The assessment of physical activity by ques-
tionnaire, Am J Epidemiol 123 (4), 563–76, 1986.
34. Ainsworth, B. E. and Coleman, K. J., Physical Activity Measurement,  Taylor &
Francis, Boca Raton, FL, 2006.
35. Lamonte, M. J., Ainsworth, B. E., and Tudor-Locke, C. E., Assessment of Physical
Activity and Energy Expenditure,  Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL, 2003.
36. Berlin, J. E., Storti, K. L., and Brach, J. S., Using activity monitors to measure
physical activity in free-living conditions, Phys Ther 86 (8), 1137–45, 2006.
37. Steele, B. G., Belza, B., Cain, K., Warms, C., Coppersmith, J., and Howard, J., Bodies
in motion: Monitoring daily activity and exercise with motion sensors in people withchronic pulmonary disease, J Rehabil Res Dev 40 (5 Suppl 2), 45–58, 2003.
38. Vanhees, L., Lefevre, J., Philippaerts, R., Martens, M., Huygens, W., Troosters, T.,
and Beunen, G., How to assess physical activity? How to assess physical ﬁtness?,Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil 12 (2), 102–14, 2005.
39. Bjornson, K. F., Physical activity monitoring in children and youths, Pediatr Phys
Ther 17 (1), 37–45, 2005.
40. Chen, K. Y . and Bassett, D. R., Jr., The technology of accelerometry-based activity
monitors: current and future, Med Sci Sports Exerc 37 (11 Suppl), S490–500, 2005.7950_C006.fm  Page 183  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

184 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
41. Conway, J. M., Seale, J. L., Irwin, M. L., Jacobs, D. R., and Ainsworth, B. E., Ability
of 7-day physical activity diaries and recalls to estimate free-living EE, Obesity
Research 7 (Supplement 1), 107S, 1999.
42. Ferrannini, E., The theoretical bases of indirect calorimetry: A review, Metabolism
37 (3), 287–301, 1988.
43. Lifson, N., Gordon, G. B., and Mc, C. R., Measurement of total carbon dioxide
production by means of D2O18, J Appl Physiol 7 (6), 704–10, 1955.
44. Speakman, J. R., The history and theory of the doubly labeled water technique, Am
J Clin Nutr 68 (4), 932S–938S, 1998.
45. Black, A. E., Prentice, A. M., and Coward, W. A., Use of food quotients to predict
respiratory quotients for the doubly-labelled water method of measuring energy
expenditure, Hum Nutr Clin Nutr 40 (5), 381–91, 1986.
46. Schultz, S., Westerterp, K., and Bruck, K., Comparison of EE by the doubly labeled
water technique with energy intake, heart rate and activity recording in man., Am J
Clin Nutr 49, 1146, 1989.
47. Seale, J. L., Rumpler, W. V ., Conway, J. M., and Miles, C. W., Comparison of
doubly labeled water, intake-balance, and direct- and indirect-calorimetry methodsfor measuring energy expenditure in adult men, Am J Clin Nutr 52 (1), 66–71,
1990.
48. Westerterp, K. R., Brouns, F., Saris, W. H., and ten Hoor, F., Comparison of doubly
labeled water with respirometry at low- and high-activity levels, J Appl Physiol 65
(1), 53–6, 1988.
49. Black, A. E., Coward, W. A., Cole, T. J., and Prentice, A. M., Human energy expen-
diture in afﬂuent societies: An analysis of 574 doubly-labelled water measurements,Eur J Clin Nutr 50 (2), 72–92, 1996.
50. 2004.51. Elia, M., Fuller, N. J., and Murgatroyd, P. R., Measurement of bicarbonate turnover
in humans: applicability to estimation of energy expenditure, Am J Physiol 263 (4
Pt 1), E676–87, 1992.
52. Elia, M., Jones, M. G., Jennings, G., Poppitt, S. D., Fuller, N. J., Murgatroyd, P. R.,
and Jebb, S. A., Estimating energy expenditure from speciﬁc activity of urine ureaduring lengthy subcutaneous NaH14CO3 infusion, Am J Physiol 269 (1 Pt 1),
E172–82, 1995.
53. Weir, J. B., New methods for calculating metabolic rate with special reference to
protein metabolism, J Physiol 109 (1–2), 1–9, 1949.
54. Davis, J. A., Direct Determination of Aerobic Power,  Human Kinetics, Champaign,
IL, 1996.
55. Bassett, D. R., Jr., Ainsworth, B. E., Swartz, A. M., Strath, S. J., O’Brien, W. L., and
King, G. A., Validity of four motion sensors in measuring moderate intensity physicalactivity, Med Sci Sports Exerc 32 (9 Suppl), S471–80, 2000.
56. King, G. A., McLaughlin, J. E., Howley, E. T., Bassett, D. R., Jr., and Ainsworth, B.
E., Validation of Aerosport KB1-C portable metabolic system, Int J Sports Med 20
(5), 304–8, 1999.
57. Berggren, G. and Hohwu Christensen, E., Heart rate and body temperature as indices
of metabolic rate during work, Arbeitsphysiologie 14 (3), 255–60, 1950.
58. Wilmore, J. H. and Haskell, W. L., Use of the heart rate-energy expenditure relation-
ship in the individualized prescription of exercise, Am J Clin Nutr 24 (9), 1186–92,
1971.
59. Christensen, C. C., Frey, H. M., Foenstelien, E., Aadland, E., and Refsum, H. E.,
A critical evaluation of energy expenditure estimates based on individual O
27950_C006.fm  Page 184  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 185
consumption/heart rate curves and average daily heart rate, Am J Clin Nutr 37
(3), 468–72, 1983.
60. Washburn, R. and Montoye, H. J., Validity of heart rate as a measure of daily EE,
Exercise Physiology 2, 161, 1986.
61. Haskell, W. L., Yee, M. C., Evans, A., and Irby, P. J., Simultaneous measurement of
heart rate and body motion to quantitate physical activity, Med Sci Sports Exerc 25
(1), 109–15, 1993.
62. Livingstone, M. B., Prentice, A. M., Coward, W. A., Ceesay, S. M., Strain, J. J.,
McKenna, P. G., Nevin, G. B., Barker, M. E., and Hickey, R. J., Simultaneous
measurement of free-living energy expenditure by the doubly labeled water methodand heart-rate monitoring, Am J Clin Nutr 52 (1), 59–65, 1990.
63. Andrews, R. B., Net heart rate as a substitute for respiratory calorimetry, Am J Clin
Nutr 24 (9), 1139–47, 1971.
64. Strath, S. J., Swartz, A. M., Bassett, D. R., Jr., O’Brien, W. L., King, G. A., and
Ainsworth, B. E., Evaluation of heart rate as a method for assessing moderate intensityphysical activity, Med Sci Sports Exerc 32 (9 Suppl), S465–70, 2000.
65. Human Body Composition,  Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL, 1996.
66. Healey, J., Future possibilities in electric monitoring of physical activity, Res Q Exerc
Sport 71, 137, 2000.
67. Ainsworth, B. E., Irwin, M. L., Addy, C. L., Whitt, M. C., and Stolarczyk, L. M.,
Moderate physical activity patterns of minority women: The Cross-Cultural ActivityParticipation Study, J Wom Hlth Gend Based Med 8 (6), 805–13, 1999.
68. Bouchard, C., Tremblay, A., Leblanc, C., Lortie, G., Savard, R., and Theriault, G., A
method to assess energy expenditure in children and adults, Am J Clin Nutr 37 (3),
461–7, 1983.
69. Lamonte, M. J., Durstine, J. L., Addy, C. L., Irwin, M. L., and Ainsworth, B. E.,
Physical activity, physical ﬁtness and Framingham 10-year risk score: The Cross-Cultural Activity Participation Study, J. Cardiopulm. Rehab. 21, 1, 2001.
70. Ainsworth, B. E., Lamonte, M. J., Drowatzky, K. L., Cooper, R. S., Thompson, R.
W., Irwin, M. L., Whitt, M. C., and Gilman, M., Evaluation of the CAPS TypicalWeek Physical Activity Survey among minority women, in Proc. Community Pre-
vention Res. in Women’s Health Conference , Bethesda, MD, 2000.
71. Fogelholm, M., Hiilloskorpi, H., Laukkanen, R., Oja, P., Van Marken Lichtenbelt,
W., and Westerterp, K., Assessment of energy expenditure in overweight women,Med Sci Sports Exerc 30 (8), 1191–7, 1998.
72. Richardson, M. T., Leon, A. S., Jacobs, D. R., Jr., Ainsworth, B. E., and Serfass, R.,
Ability of the Caltrac accelerometer to assess daily physical activity levels, J Cardio
Rehab 15 (2), 107–13, 1995.
73. Richardson, M. T., Ainsworth, B. E., Jacobs, D. R., and Leon, A. S., Validation of
the Stanford 7-day recall to assess habitual physical activity, Ann Epidemiol 11 (2),
145–53, 2001.
74. American Heart Association. Start! http://www.americanheart.orgpresenter.jhtml?iden-
tiﬁer=304077 Retrieved May 22, 2007.
75. Richardson, M. T., Leon, A. S., Jacobs, D. R., Jr., Ainsworth, B. E., and Serfass, R.,
Comprehensive evaluation of the Minnesota Leisure Time Physical Activity Ques-tionnaire, J Clin Epidemiol 47 (3), 271–81, 1994.
76. Finnegan, L. P., The NIH Women’s Health Initiative: Its evolution and expected
contributions to women’s health, Am J Prev Med 12 (5), 292–3, 1996.
77. Lehmann, M., Foster, C., and Keul, J., Overtraining in endurance athletes: A brief
review, Med Sci Sports Exerc 25 (7), 854–62, 1993.7950_C006.fm  Page 185  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

186 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
78. Brownell, K. D., Steen, S. N., and Wilmore, J. H., Weight regulation practices in
athletes: Analysis of metabolic and health effects, Med Sci Sports Exerc 19 (6),
546–56, 1987.
79. Willett, W. C., Nutritional Epidemiology , 2nd ed. Oxford Press, New York, NY , 1998.
80. Welk, G. J., Blair, S. N., Wood, K., Jones, S., and Thompson, R. W., A comparative
evaluation of three accelerometry-based physical activity monitors, Med Sci Sports
Exerc 32 (9 Suppl), S489-97, 2000.
81. Welk, G. J., Differding, J. A., Thompson, R. W., Blair, S. N., Dziura, J., and Hart,
P., The utility of the Digi-walker step counter to assess daily physical activity patterns,
Med Sci Sports Exerc 32 (9 Suppl), S481–8, 2000.
82. Bassett, D. R., Jr., Ainsworth, B. E., Leggett, S. R., Mathien, C. A., Main, J. A.,
Hunter, D. C., and Duncan, G. E., Accuracy of ﬁve electronic pedometers for mea-suring distance walked, Med Sci Sports Exerc 28 (8), 1071–7, 1996.
83. Crouter, S. E., Schneider, P. L., Karabulut, M., and Bassett, D. R., Jr., Validity of 10
electronic pedometers for measuring steps, distance, and energy cost, Med Sci Sports
Exerc 35 (8), 1455–60, 2003.
84. Leenders, N., Sherman, W. M., and Nagaraja, H. N., Comparisons of four methods of
estimating physical activity in adult women, Med Sci Sports Exerc 32 (7), 1320–6, 2000.
85. Nelson, T. E., Leenders, N., and Sherman, W. M., Comparison of activity monitors
worn during treadmill walking, Med Sci Sports Exerc 30 (5 Supplement), S11, 1998.
86. Tudor-Locke, C. E., Williams, J. E., Reis, J. P., and Pluto, D., Utility of pedometers
for assessing physical activity: Convergent validity, Sports Medicine 32 (12),
795–808, 2002.
87. Tudor-Locke, C. E., Williams, J. E., Reis, J. P., and Pluto, D., Utility of pedometers
for assessing physical activity: Construct validity, Sports Medicine 34 (5), 281–291,
2004.
88. Ainsworth, B. E., LaMonte, M. J., Whitt, M. C., Irwin, M. L., and Drowatzky, K. L.,
Development and Validation of a Physical Activity Questionnaire to Assess ModerateIntensity Activity in Minority Women, Ages 40 and Older, in Proc. NIH Women’s
Health Community Research Conference , 2000.
89. Scruggs, P. W., Beveridge, S. K., Eisenman, P. A., Watson, D. L., Shultz, B. B., and
Ransdell, L. B., Quantifying physical activity via pedometry in elementary physicaleducation, Med Sci Sports Exerc 35 (6), 1065–71, 2003.
90. Macko, R. F., Haeuber, E., Shaughnessy, M., Coleman, K. L., Boone, D. A., Smith,
G. V ., and Silver, K. H., Microprocessor-based ambulatory activity monitoring instroke patients, Med Sci Sports Exerc 34 (3), 394–9, 2002.
91. Dunn, A. L., Garcia, M. E., Marcus, B. H., Kampert, J. B., Kohl, H. W., and Blair,
S. N., Six-month physical activity and ﬁtness changes in Project Active, a randomizedtrial, Med Sci Sports Exerc 30 (7), 1076–83, 1998.
92. Dunn, A. L., Marcus, B. H., Kampert, J. B., Garcia, M. E., Kohl, H. W., 3rd, and
Blair, S. N., Reduction in cardiovascular disease risk factors: 6-month results fromProject Active, Prev Med 26 (6), 883–92, 1997.
93. Kohl, H. W., 3rd, Dunn, A. L., Marcus, B. H., and Blair, S. N., A randomized trial
of physical activity interventions: Design and baseline data from project active, Med
Sci Sports Exerc 30 (2), 275–83, 1998.
94. Tudor-Locke, C. E. and Myers, A. M., Methodological considerations for researchers
and practitioners using pedometers to measure physical (ambulatory) activity, Res Q
Exerc Sport 72 (1), 1–12, 2001.
95. Freedson, P. S., Melanson, E., and Sirard, J., Calibration of the Computer Science
and Applications, Inc. accelerometer, Med Sci Sports Exerc 30 (5), 777–81, 1998.7950_C006.fm  Page 186  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 187
96. Hendelman, D., Miller, K., Baggett, C., Debold, E., and Freedson, P., Validity of
accelerometry for the assessment of moderate intensity physical activity in the ﬁeld,
Med Sci Sports Exerc 32 (9 Suppl), S442–9, 2000.
97. Montoye, H. J., Washburn, R., Servais, S., Ertl, A., Webster, J. G., and Nagle, F. J.,
Estimation of energy expenditure by a portable accelerometer, Med Sci Sports Exerc
15 (5), 403–7, 1983.
98. Nichols, J. F., Morgan, C. G., Sarkin, J. A., Sallis, J. F., and Calfas, K. J., Validity,
reliability, and calibration of the Tritrac accelerometer as a measure of physicalactivity, Med Sci Sports Exerc 31 (6), 908–12, 1999.
99. Swartz, A. M., Strath, S. J., Bassett, D. R., Jr., O’Brien, W. L., King, G. A., and
Ainsworth, B. E., Estimation of energy expenditure using CSA accelerometers at hipand wrist sites, Med Sci Sports Exerc 32 (9 Suppl), S450–6, 2000.
100. Melanson, E. L., Jr. and Freedson, P. S., Validity of the Computer Science and
Applications, Inc. (CSA) activity monitor, Med Sci Sports Exerc 27 (6), 934–40, 1995.
101. Ainsworth, B. E., Bassett, D. R., Jr., Strath, S. J., Swartz, A. M., O’Brien, W. L.,
Thompson, R. W., Jones, D. A., Macera, C. A., and Kimsey, C. D., Comparison ofthree methods for measuring the time spent in physical activity, Med Sci Sports Exerc
32 (9 Suppl), S457–64, 2000.
102. Nichols, J. F., Morgan, C. G., Chabot, L. E., Sallis, J. F., and Calfas, K. J., Assessment
of physical activity with the Computer Science and Applications, Inc., accelerometer:Laboratory versus ﬁeld validation, Res Q Exerc Sport 71 (1), 36–43, 2000.
103. Rost, S. G., McIver, K., Pate, R. R., Objective monitoring of physical activity: Closing
the gaps in the science of accelerometry, Med Sci Sports Exerc 37 (Suppl. 11),
S487–S588, 2005.
104. Matthews, C. E., Freedson, P. S., Hebert, J. R., Stanek, E. J., 3rd, Merriam, P. A.,and Ockene, I. S., Comparing physical activity assessment methods in the Sea-sonal Variation of Blood Cholesterol Study, Med Sci Sports Exerc 32 (5), 976–84,
2000.
105. Matthews, C. E., Ainsworth, B. E., Hanby, C., Pate, R. R., Addy, C., Freedson, P. S.,
Jones, D. A., and Macera, C. A., Development and testing of a short physical activityrecall questionnaire, Med Sci Sports Exerc 37 (6), 986–94, 2005.
106. Kriska, A. M. and Caspersen, C. J., Introduction to a Collection of Physical Activity
Questionnaire, Med Sci Sports Exerc 29 (Supplement 6), S5–S9, 1997.
107. Siscovick, D. S., Ekelund, L. G., Hyde, J. S., Johnson, J. L., Gordon, D. J., and
LaRosa, J. C., Physical activity and coronary heart disease among asymptomatichypercholesterolemic men (the Lipid Research Clinics Coronary Primary PreventionTrial), Am J Public Health 78 (11), 1428–31, 1988.
108. Ainsworth, B. E., Jacobs, D. R., Jr., and Leon, A. S., Validity and reliability of self-
reported physical activity status: The Lipid Research Clinics questionnaire, Med Sci
Sports Exerc 25 (1), 92–8, 1993.
109. Sidney, S., Jacobs, D. R., Jr., Haskell, W. L., Armstrong, M. A., Dimicco, A., Oberman,
A., Savage, P. J., Slattery, M. L., Sternfeld, B., and Van Horn, L., Comparison of twomethods of assessing physical activity in the Coronary Artery Risk Development inYoung Adults (CARDIA) Study, Am J Epidemiol 133 (12), 1231–45, 1991.
110. Yore, M. M., Bowles, H. R., Ainsworth, B. E., Macera, C. A., and Kohl, H. W.,
Single- Versus Multiple-Item Questions on Occupational Physical Activity, J Phys
Act Health 1, 102–111, 2006.
111. Baecke, J. A., Burema, J., and Frijters, J. E., A short questionnaire for the measure-
ment of habitual physical activity in epidemiological studies, Am J Clin Nutr 36 (5),
936–42, 1982.7950_C006.fm  Page 187  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

188 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
112. Macera, C. A. and Pratt, M., Public health surveillance of physical activity., Res. Q.
Exerc. Sport. 71, 97, 2000.
113. Craig, C. L., Marshall, A. L., Sjostrom, M., Bauman, A. E., Booth, M. L., Ainsworth,
B. E., Pratt, M., Ekelund, U., Yngve, A., Sallis, J. F., and Oja, P., International physical
activity questionnaire: 12-country reliability and validity, Med Sci Sports Exerc 35
(8), 1381–95, 2003.
114. Addy, C. L., Wilson, D. K., Kirtland, K. A., Ainsworth, B. E., Sharpe, P., and Kimsey,
D., Associations of perceived social and physical environmental supports with phys-ical activity and walking behavior, Am J Public Health 94 (3), 440–3, 2004.
115. Reis, J. P., Dubose, K. D., Ainsworth, B. E., Macera, C. A., and Yore, M. M.,
Reliability and validity of the occupational physical activity questionnaire, Med Sci
Sports Exerc 37 (12), 2075–83, 2005.
116. Blair, S. N., Haskell, W. L., Ho, P., Paffenbarger, R. S., Jr., Vranizan, K. M., Farquhar, J.
W., and Wood, P. D., Assessment of habitual physical activity by a seven–day recall in acommunity survey and controlled experiments, Am J Epidemiol 122 (5), 794–804, 1985.
117. Paffenbarger, R. S., Jr., Wing, A. L., and Hyde, R. T., Physical activity as an index
of heart attack risk in college alumni, Am J Epidemiol 108 (3), 161–75, 1978.
118. Lakka, T. A. and Salonen, J. T., Intra-person variability of various physical activity
assessments in the Kuopio Ischaemic Heart Disease Risk Factor Study, Int J Epide-
miol 21 (3), 467–72, 1992.
119. Taylor, H. L., Jacobs, D. R., Jr., Schucker, B., Knudsen, J., Leon, A. S., and Debacker,
G., A questionnaire for the assessment of leisure time physical activities, J Chronic
Dis 31 (12), 741–55, 1978.
120. Montoye, H. J., Estimation of habitual physical activity by questionnaire and inter-
view, Am J Clin Nutr 24 (9), 1113–8, 1971.
121. Kriska, A. M., Knowler, W. C., LaPorte, R. E., Drash, A. L., Wing, R. R., Blair, S.
N., Bennett, P. H., and Kuller, L. H., Development of questionnaire to examinerelationship of physical activity and diabetes in Pima Indians, Diabetes Care 13 (4),
401–11, 1990.
122. Aaron, D. J., Kriska, A. M., Dearwater, S. R., Cauley, J. A., Metz, K. F., and LaPorte,
R. E., Reproducibility and validity of an epidemiologic questionnaire to assess pastyear physical activity in adolescents, Am J Epidemiol 142 (2), 191–201, 1995.
123. Lakka, T. A. and Salonen, J. T., Moderate to high intensity conditioning leisure time
physical activity and high cardiorespiratory ﬁtness are associated with reduced plasmaﬁbrinogen in eastern Finnish men, J Clin Epidemiol 46 (10), 1119–27, 1993.
124. Stewart, A. L., Mills, K. M., King, A. C., Haskell, W. L., Gillis, D., and Ritter, P. L.,
CHAMPS physical activity questionnaire for older adults: Outcomes for interven-tions, Med Sci Sports Exerc 33 (7), 1126–41, 2001.
125. Kriska, A. M., Sandler, R. B., Cauley, J. A., LaPorte, R. E., Hom, D. L., and
Pambianco, G., The assessment of historical physical activity and its relation to adultbone parameters, Am J Epidemiol 127 (5), 1053–63, 1988.
126. Belloc, N. B. and Breslow, L., Relationship of physical health status and health
practices, Prev Med 1 (3), 409–21, 1972.
127. Paffenbarger, R. S., Jr., Hyde, R. T., Wing, A. L., and Hsieh, C. C., Physical activity, all-
cause mortality, and longevity of college alumni, N Engl J Med 314 (10), 605–13, 1986.
128. Ainsworth, B. E., Leon, A. S., Richardson, M. T., Jacobs, D. R., and Paffenbarger,
R. S., Jr., Accuracy of the College Alumnus Physical Activity Questionnaire, J Clin
Epidemiol 46 (12), 1403–11, 1993.
129. International Physical Activity Questionnaire. http://www.ipaq.ki.se. Retrieved May
22, 2007.7950_C006.fm  Page 188  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

The Measurement of Energy Expenditure and Physical Activity 189
130. Weller, I. and Corey, P., The impact of excluding non-leisure energy expenditure on
the relation between physical activity and mortality in women, Epidemiology 9 (6),
632–5, 1998.
131. Baranowski, T., Validity and reliability of self-report measures of physical activity:
An information-processing perspective., Res. Q. Exerc. Sport. 59, 314, 1988.
132. Durante, R. and Ainsworth, B. E., The recall of physical activity: Using a cognitive
model of the question-answering process, Med Sci Sports Exerc 28 (10), 1282–91,
1996.
133. Lichtman, S. W., Pisarska, K., Berman, E. R., Pestone, M., Dowling, H., Offenbacher,
E., Weisel, H., Heshka, S., Matthews, D. E., and Heymsﬁeld, S. B., Discrepancy
between self-reported and actual caloric intake and exercise in obese subjects, N Engl
J Med 327 (27), 1893–8, 1992.
134. Dietz, W. H., The role of lifestyle in health: The epidemiology and consequences of
inactivity, Proc Nutr Soc 55 (3), 829–40, 1996.
135. Gordon-Larsen, P., McMurray, R. G., and Popkin, B. M., Determinants of adolescent
physical activity and inactivity patterns, Pediatrics 105 (6), E83, 2000.
136. Fitzgerald, S. J., Kriska, A. M., Pereira, M. A., and de Courten, M. P., Associations
among physical activity, television watching, and obesity in adult Pima Indians, Med
Sci Sports Exerc 29 (7), 910–5, 1997.
137. Gordon-Larsen, P., Adair, L. S., and Popkin, B. M., Ethnic differences in physical
activity and inactivity patterns and overweight status, Obes Res 10 (3), 141–9, 2002.
138. Fung, T. T., Hu, F. B., Yu, J., Chu, N. F., Spiegelman, D., Toﬂer, G. H., Willett, W.
C., and Rimm, E. B., Leisure-time physical activity, television watching, and plasmabiomarkers of obesity and cardiovascular disease risk, Am J Epidemiol 152 (12),
1171–8, 2000.
139. Andersen, R. E., Crespo, C. J., Bartlett, S. J., Cheskin, L. J., and Pratt, M., Relation-
ship of physical activity and television watching with body weight and level of fatnessamong children: Results from the Third National Health and Nutrition ExaminationSurvey, Jama 279 (12), 938–42, 1998.
140. Hu, F. B., Li, T. Y ., Colditz, G. A., Willett, W. C., and Manson, J. E., Television
watching and other sedentary behaviors in relation to risk of obesity and type 2diabetes mellitus in women, JAMA 289 (14), 1785–91, 2003.
141. Manson, J. E., Greenland, P., LaCroix, A. Z., Stefanick, M. L., Mouton, C. P.,
Oberman, A., Perri, M. G., Sheps, D. S., Pettinger, M. B., and Siscovick, D. S.,Walking compared with vigorous exercise for the prevention of cardiovascular eventsin women, N Engl J Med 347 (10), 716–25, 2002.
142. Feldman, D. E., Barnett, T., Shrier, I., Rossignol, M., and Abenhaim, L., Is physical
activity differentially associated with different types of sedentary pursuits? Arch
Pediatr Adolesc Med 157 (8), 797–802, 2003.
143. Jakes, R. W., Day, N. E., Khaw, K. T., Luben, R., Oakes, S., Welch, A., Bingham,
S., and Wareham, N. J., Television viewing and low participation in vigorous recre-ation are independently associated with obesity and markers of cardiovascular diseaserisk: EPIC-Norfolk population-based study, Eur J Clin Nutr 57 (9), 1089–96, 2003.
144. Utter, J., Neumark-Sztainer, D., Jeffery, R., and Story, M., Couch potatoes or french
fries: Are sedentary behaviors associated with body mass index, physical activity,and dietary behaviors among adolescents?, J Am Diet Assoc 103 (10), 1298–305,
2003.
145. Evenson, K. R. and McGinn, A. P., Test-retest reliability of adult surveillance mea-
sures for physical activity and inactivity, Am J Prev Med 28 (5), 470–8, 2005.          7950_C006.fm  Page 189  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

7950_C006.fm  Page 190  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:55 PM

 
Section 3 
Physiological Aspects 
of Energy Metabolism 
7950_S003.fm  Page 191  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  6:02 PM

 
7950_S003.fm  Page 192  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  6:02 PM

 
193 
7 
Inﬂuence of Dietary 
Fiber on Body Weight Regulation 
Daniel D. Gallaher 
CONTENTS 
I.  Introduction ..................................................................................................193
II. Epidemiological Studies ..............................................................................196
A. Historical Perspective ...........................................................................196B. Longitudinal Studies.............................................................................196C. Cross Sectional Studies ........................................................................198D. Summary...............................................................................................199
III. Intervention Studies .....................................................................................199
A. Studies using Dietary Fiber Supplements............................................199B. Studies using Dietary Fiber-Rich Foods ..............................................200C. Summary...............................................................................................200
IV . Effects on Satiety and Satiation ..................................................................200
A. Effect of Dietary Fiber on Satiety........................................................201B. Potential Mechanism for Enhanced Satiety .........................................201
1. Gastric Distension .........................................................................2022. Delayed Glucose Absorption.........................................................2023. Hormonal Effects...........................................................................2034. Glucagon-Like Peptide 1...............................................................204
C. Summary...............................................................................................205
V . Conclusions ..................................................................................................205References..............................................................................................................205 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The prevalence of obesity in the United States has reached alarming levels. As of2004, the Centers for Disease Control estimated that 33 states had an obesityprevalence (BMI  
≥ 
 30) of between 20–24% and that nine states had a prevalence  
≥ 
25%. 
1 
 Further, the rate of increase in obesity shows little evidence of slowing. Even
more alarming is the high incidence of obesity among youth, as obesity in childhood 
7950_C007.fm  Page 193  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
194 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
is highly predictive of adult obesity. The causes of being overweight or obese are
complex, but certainly involve factors such as reduced physical activity, overcon-sumption of energy-dense highly palatable foods, and low socioeconomic status.The primary concern regarding obesity is, of course, the greater risk for a numberof chronic diseases experienced by overweight and obese individuals. These includehypertension, type 2 diabetes, and coronary heart disease. Indeed, the rapidly increas-ing occurrence of type 2 diabetes is undoubtedly due to the increase in the perva-siveness of obesity.
Although no single dietary component, either by its lack or excess, is solely
responsible for the dramatic increase in obesity, a number of dietary components,or their relative lack, are receiving scrutiny as playing a role in the imbalance in energythat leads to obesity. One such component is dietary ﬁber. Dietary ﬁber can be thoughtof as a diverse group of polymeric carbohydrate compounds that have in common aresistance to breakdown by mammalian digesti ve enzymes. Som e deﬁnitions also
include the polyphenolic compound lignin. Dietary ﬁbers may derive from the plantcell wall, such as cellulose, hemicelluloses, pectins, and lignin, or be found intrac-
ellularly, such as gums and mucilages. Table 7.1 gives total dietary ﬁber values for
some commonly consumed foods.
Given their diverse origin in plants, it is not surprising that dietary ﬁbers
exhibit great differences in their chemical composition and physical characteristics.Until recently, it has been common to categorize dietary ﬁber based on its solubilityin water, i.e., soluble or insoluble ﬁber. However, it is now widely accepted thatthis method of categorization by a single chemical property is overly simplisticand does not explain well the range of physiological responses produced bydifferent dietary ﬁbers. It has proven far more useful to deﬁne dietary ﬁber interms of its physical properties. Of these, two in particular have received the mostattention. These are viscosity and susceptibility to fermentation. Although dietaryﬁbers can exhibit a range within each of these properties, e.g., it can be slightlyviscous or slightly fermentable, it is common to categorize dietary ﬁbers in adichotomous fashion, i.e., either highly viscous or not or highly fermentable ornot. Table 7.2 indicates the viscosity and fermentability for a number of dietaryﬁbers in such a manner.
There are three universally accepted physiological responses to consumption of
dietary ﬁber. These are lowering of plasma cholesterol concentrations, modiﬁcationof the glycemic response, and improving large-bowel function. Overwhelming evi-dence indicates that the reduction of plasma cholesterol and the modiﬁcation of theglycemic response is associated with consumption of viscous dietary ﬁber sources. 
2 
Improving large-bowel function, however, is primarily due to consumption of non-fermentable dietary ﬁbers. 
2 
 In recent years, however, evidence has accumulated
pointing to an important role for dietary ﬁber in body weight regulation. Althoughthe physical property of dietary ﬁber that may be responsible for this effect and themechanism by which it occurs is uncertain, this possible new role for dietary ﬁberis one that may be as important as the physiological responses that are alreadyestablished. 
7950_C007.fm  Page 194  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
Inﬂuence of Dietary Fiber on Body Weight Regulation 
195 
TABLE 7.1
Dietary Fiber Content of Selected Foods 
Food ItemTotal Dietary 
Fiber (g/100 g 
edible portion)
Cereal grains 
White wheat ﬂour 2.7
Whole wheat ﬂour 12.2Oat cereal 9.8Corn meal 4.0White rice 2.8
Brown rice 3.5
Pearled barley 15.6 
Vegetables, raw 
Broccoli 2.6Carrots 2.8Cauliﬂower 2.5Corn 2.7Green beans 3.4Green peas 5.1Lettuce, iceberg 1.2Lettuce, romaine 2.1Onions 1.7Potatoes 2.4Spinach 2.2Tomatoes 1.2 
Fruits, raw 
Apples 2.4Bananas 2.6Dried plums 7.1Oranges 2.4Peaches 1.5Raisins 3.7Strawberries 2.0 
Legumes, raw 
Black beans 15.2Chickpeas 17.4Kidney beans 24.9Lima beans 19.0Pinto beans 15.5Split peas 25.5White beans 15.2 
7950_C007.fm  Page 195  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
196 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
II. EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDIES
A. H 
ISTORICAL 
 P 
ERSPECTIVE 
Consumption of dietary ﬁber by ancestral humans was almost certainly vastly greater
than that of current western populations. It has been estimated that Paleolithic peoples,who presumably experienced a minimal incidence of obesity, consumed 77–120g/d, 
3 
 whereas current estimates of ﬁber intake in the United States range from 16.5
to 17.9 g/d for men and 12.1 to 13.8 g/d for women. Similarly , modern-day subsistence
farmers and forager-gatherers who continue to live a traditional lifestyle consumemuch greater dietary ﬁber, from 50 to 100 g/d, than those in developed countries. 
4 
Although these populations have an incidence of obesity far below those in westernsocieties, they of course have many cultural and environmental differences that couldaccount for this difference in incidence. Thus, while this association between dietaryﬁber consumption and obesity incidence is interesting, it tells us little about whetherdietary ﬁber has a causative role in reducing obesity.  
B. L 
ONGITUDINAL 
 S 
TUDIES 
  
A number of epidemiological studies have explored the association between con-sumption of dietary ﬁber and body weight. Liu et al. 
5 
 used results from a prospective
cohort study of U.S. female nurses, in which food frequency questionnaires were
administered at multiple times from 1984 to 1996 to estimate dietary ﬁber intake.
The authors then examined the association between the increase in dietary ﬁberintake from 1984 and 1994 and body weight gain over the same period. Whencategorized into quintiles, there was a highly signiﬁcant trend for an inverse asso-ciation between the increase in dietary ﬁber intake and a smaller gain in body weight(Figure 7.1). This smaller body weight gain, however, was much more pronouncedin women whose body mass index (BMI) was  
≥ 
 25 compared with women whose
BMI was < 25 at the start of the study. 
A somewhat similar relationship was found in a longitudinal study of ﬁber intake
and weight gain in a large Mediterranean population. 
6 
 A lower weight gain over the 
TABLE 7.2Viscosity and Susceptibility to Fermentation of Selected 
Dietary Fibers 
Viscosity
High Low 
Fermentability 
HighGuar gum 
β 
-glucans
Glucomannan
PectinsGum AcaciaOligofructoseInulin
Low 
or noneModiﬁed celluloses(e.g. methylcellulose)PsylliumCelluloseHemicelluloses 
7950_C007.fm  Page 196  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
Inﬂuence of Dietary Fiber on Body Weight Regulation 
197 
previous 5 years was found to be strongly associated with a greater intake of dietary
ﬁber (Figure 7.2), expressed as the change in proportion of subject gaining  
≥ 
3 kg.
This relationship remained signiﬁcant after adjustment for a number of potentialconfounders, such as energy intake, physical activity, snacking, and fat intake. Inthe Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study, 522 overweight middle-aged men and womenwere given either standard care (control group) or intensive dietary and exercisecounseling and followed for 3 years. 
7 
 Three-day food records were used to determine
nutrient consumption. Increasing ﬁber consumption was strongly associated withgreater weight loss and greater reduction in waist circumference. 
Changes in waistline due to diet were also examined in the Health Professionals’
Follow-Up Study, in which an increase in dietary ﬁber consumption of 12 g/d was
found to be associated with a signiﬁcant decrease of 0.63 cm in waist circumference. 
8 
The Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) Study is of
interest because it examined associations between diet and body weight for bothblacks and whites. 
9 
 Using a food frequency questionnaire to determine diet history,
dietary ﬁber intake was inversely associated with body weight and waist-to-hip ratiosin both black and white men and women. The inﬂuence of dietary ﬁber has alsobeen examined in another large cohort of 2025 men and women, drawn from theDanish Multinational Monitoring of Trends and Determinants in CardiovascularDisease (MONICA) and a cohort from 1936. 
10 
 Dietary intake was monitored by a
7-day food record. In contrast to the studies described above, no signiﬁcant corre lation 
FIGURE 7.1 
Weight gain by quintiles (Q) of change in dietary ﬁber intake from 1984 to
1994, based on BMI in 1984. Adapted from Liu et al., Relation between changes in intakes
of dietary ﬁber and grain products and changes in weight and development of obesity amongmiddle-aged women,  
Am. J. Clin. Nutr.,  
78, 920–927, 2003.Increase in Dietary Fiber IntakeQ1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q5Weight Gain (kg)
0123456BMI 25
BMI<25 
7950_C007.fm  Page 197  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
198 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
was found between dietary ﬁber intake and change in body weight in men, and only
a trend for an inverse correlation in women (p  
= 
 0.10), after adjustments for cova-
riates. Clearly, however, a majority of longitudinal studies investigating the relation-ship between intake of dietary ﬁber and body weight do ﬁnd that ﬁber intake tendsto vary inversely with body weight change.  
C. C 
ROSS 
 S 
ECTIONAL 
 S 
TUDIES 
A number of studies have examined the customary intake of dietary ﬁber of normal,overweight, and obese subjects. Using hydrostatic weighing to ascertain body com-position and 3-day food records and food frequency questionnaires to measuredietary ﬁber intake, a signiﬁcantly lower intake of dietary ﬁber was found in obesemen and women than in lean men and women. 
11 
 Total dietary ﬁber was determined
in groups of lean (BMI 20.0–27.0), moderately obese (BMI 27.1–39.9) or severelyobese (BMI >39.9) individuals using 3-day food records. After adjusting for potentialconfounding variables, total dietary ﬁber, expressed as either g/d or g/1000 kcal,was found to vary inversely with BMI. 
12 
 Similarly, dietary intake was determined
in groups of normal weight (BMI <25) and overweight/obese (BMI 25) subjectsmatched for age and height. 
13 
 Dietary ﬁber intake was signiﬁcantly greater in the
normal weight group relative to the overweight/obese group (12  
± 
 5 vs. 9  
± 
 3 g/1000
kcal, respectively). Further, ﬁber intake was negatively correlated with percent bodyfat, determined by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). In a study of 203men categorized into three tertiles of body fat based on skinfold measurements,dietary ﬁber intake, estimated by food frequency questionnaire, was highly signiﬁ-cantly inversely correlated with body fat category. 
14 
FIGURE 7.2 
The proportion of men and women experiencing  
≥ 
3 kg weight loss over 5 years
as related to their dietary ﬁber intake. Adapted from Bes-Rasrollo et al. Association of ﬁber
intake and fruit/vegetable consumption with weight gain in a Mediterranean population, 
Nutrition,  
22, 504–511, 2006. Median Fiber Intake (g/d)10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45Weight gain kg in Previous 5 y (%)
2025303540455055Men
Women 
7950_C007.fm  Page 198  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
Inﬂuence of Dietary Fiber on Body Weight Regulation 
199 
D. S 
UMMARY 
The longitudinal studies and cross sectional studies investigating the relationship
between intake of dietary ﬁber and body weight consistently ﬁnd that ﬁber intakeis inversely correlated with body weight change. However, these studies must beviewed in the context that the differences in dietary ﬁber found in them representdifferences in consumption of ﬁber-rich foods, primarily fruits, vegetables, andwhole grain cereals. One cannot exclude the possibility that these epidemiologicaloutcomes arise due to other factors besides dietary ﬁber in these ﬁber-rich foods.Further, these studies provide little insight as to what physical characteristic, e.g.,viscosity, fermentation, etc. of the ﬁber might be responsible for this associationbetween dietary ﬁber and body weight reduction.  
III. INTERVENTION STUDIES 
Two basic approaches have been used to examine the effect of dietary ﬁber on bodyweight change experimentally. The majority of studies have administered a puriﬁedor semi-puriﬁed ﬁber supplement to subjects, usually in the form of a pill. A fewstudies have examined the effect of dietary ﬁber-rich foods on body weight. Theselatter studies have the advantage of examining the ﬁber in its native state within thefood, but cannot exclude the possibility that food components other than the ﬁbercontribute to or are entirely responsible for any weight loss found. 
A. S 
TUDIES 
  
USING 
 D 
IETARY 
 F 
IBER 
 S 
UPPLEMENTS 
A large number of studies have been conducted on the effect of various types ofdietary ﬁber supplements on body weight. These are summarized in Table 7.3. Themajority of studies employed a viscous type of dietary ﬁber, such as glucomannan 
TABLE 7.3Number of Studies Showing an Increase in Satiety 
or Reduction in Hunger Relative to a Low-Fiber Control or Placebo Treatment  
Fiber Type 
Increased Satiety/Reduced Hunger 
Studies  
≤ 
 2 Days 
Studies > 2 Days
Y e sN oY e sN o 
Mixed ﬁber 8 
a 
25 
b 
0
Soluble ﬁber 8 
a 
27 
a 
1
Insoluble ﬁber 2 1 5 
a 
0 
a 
 One study showed a statistically nonsigniﬁcant increase. 
b 
 Two studies showed a statistically nonsigniﬁcant increase.
Adapted from Howarth, N. C., Saltzman, E., and Roberts, S. B., Dietary ﬁber
and weight regulation,  
Nutr. Rev.,  
59, 129–139, 2001 
7950_C007.fm  Page 199  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
200 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
or agar, or a combination of viscous ﬁbers. Widely varying amounts of ﬁber, duration
of study, and use of concurrent weight reduction diets make overall conclusionssomewhat challenging. However, in those studies in which the duration of the trialwas 1 month or longer, and which used a viscous dietary ﬁber, all studies exceptone found a signiﬁcant reduction in body weight compared with the placebo. In theone exception, the study by Tai et al., 
15 
 subject compliance with consumption of the
ﬁber supplement was poor. In four of ﬁve studies employing a ﬁber supplementderived from a mix of sources (e.g., cereal and citrus fruit), a signiﬁcant reductionin body weight occurred. The single study of a wheat ﬁber supplement found noreduction in body weight. Overall, these intervention trials, when conducted for areasonable length of time (i.e., 1 month or longer), support the use of dietary ﬁbersupplements as a dietary approach to facilitate body weight loss. 
B. S 
TUDIES 
  
USING 
 D 
IETARY 
 F 
IBER 
-R 
ICH 
 F 
OODS 
There have been few studies of the effect of ﬁber-rich foods on body weight. In astudy of obese subjects (BMI > 31), individuals consuming a hypocaloric diet highin whole grain cereals while participating in an exercise program lost no more weightthan those who consumed a regular hypocaloric diet and also exercised. 
16 
 Fruit and
oat intake was examined in a study of overweight women (BMI > 25) consuminga hypocaloric diet. 
17 
 Subjects consumed either 300 g of apple or pear or 60 g of oat
cookies for 12 weeks. Those consuming the fruit experienced a signiﬁcant bodyweight reduction from baseline, whereas those consuming the oat cookie did not.Since the fruit and oat cookie all supplied approximately the same amount of dailytotal ﬁber, this suggests that the fruit ﬁber was more efﬁcacious in promoting weightloss. The Women’s Healthy Eating and Living (WHEL) Study examined the effectin 1010 women of a low--fat, high-vegetable diet intervention on the risk of breastcancer recurrence. 
18 
 Combining results from the intervention and comparison groups,
the investigators found that changes in body weight from baseline to 1 year signif-icantly inversely correlated with changes in the energy-adjusted dietary ﬁber intake.Interestingly, changes in energy intake did not correlate with body weight.  
C. S 
UMMARY 
Although the number of investigations is not large, overall the results of interventionstudies support a role for dietary ﬁber in body weight management. However, thelimited number of studies precludes the ability to determine what types of dietaryﬁber may be most efﬁcacious, and provides little guidance about the amount ofdietary ﬁber needed to maximize weight loss.  
IV. EFFECTS ON SATIETY AND SATIATION 
An important dietary strategy for weight management is to determine what foods
or meal patterns will result in a decreased energy intake by inducing quicker satiation(intrameal satiety) and lead to greater satiety (intermeal satiety). Most investigations ofthe inﬂuence of diet on satiation and satiety have focused on macronutrient composition.It is now clear that macronutrients have different effects on satiation and satiety that 
7950_C007.fm  Page 200  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
Inﬂuence of Dietary Fiber on Body Weight Regulation 
201 
are independent of their caloric content. 
19 
 Protein appears to have the greatest effect on
promoting satiety, 
20,21 
 whereas the relative satiety value of fats and carbohydrates is less
clear. In terms of meal patterns, considerable evidence now indicates that the energy
density of a meal, deﬁned as the energy content of a given weight of food (kcal/g), hasa strong inﬂuence on both satiation and satiety. 
22 
 That is, the lower the energy density
of the meal or food, the greater the satiety that it produces. Water is the major componentof food that impacts the energy density of a food. However, because dietary ﬁber hasa minimal caloric content (approx. 1 kcal/g, due to absorption of colonic fermentationproducts), it too impacts energy density. Thus, foods high in dietary ﬁber will tend tobe less calorically dense than those with a lower concentration of dietary ﬁber. 
A. E 
FFECT 
  
OF 
 D 
IETARY 
 F 
IBER 
  
ON 
 S 
ATIETY 
Given the importance of satiety in weight management, and the potential for dietaryﬁber to impact satiety, it is not surprising that a number of studies have examined
the role of dietary ﬁber on satiety and hunger responses. Howarth and colleagues
conducted a review of such studies in which healthy nondiabetic subjects were usedand that included a control group provided with a meal or diet of equivalent energyand fat content. 
23 
 Their results are summarized in Table 7.3. It is apparent that in
both short-term ( 
≤ 
 2 days) and longer term (> 2 days) trials, the majority of studies
found that the presence of dietary ﬁber in the diet resulted in greater satiety orreduced hunger. There is no discernable difference based on whether the dietaryﬁber was categorized as of the soluble or insoluble type. 
Since the time of the review by Howarth et al. in 2001, a number of other studies
of dietary ﬁber and satiety have been reported. Holt et al. examined the effect ofseven different types of bread of equivalent energy on satiety over a 120-minuteperiod. 
24 
 A satiety index score was calculated as the area under the curve of satiety
measures of the test breads (based on stone-ground whole-wheat ﬂour or high-glutenwheat ﬂour) divided by the area under the curve for the reference bread (soft white).Although the strongest predictor of the satiety index score was the energy index ofthe breads, dietary ﬁber content was also positively associated with the score. Usinga similar protocol, but feeding single meals containing different wheat-based or rice-based test meals, a positive correlation was found between the satiety index scoreand ﬁber content of the food, but not with other macronutrients. 
25 
 In sausage patties,
a substitution of lupin-kernel ﬁber for fat, but not a substitution of oligofructose,also resulted in a greater satiety score. 
26 
Several studies have examined the effect of ﬁber added to liquid meals. The
addition of a pea-ﬁber/oligofructose ﬁber mixture to an enteral formula consumedfor 14 days increased the sense of fullness and minimal satiety compared with acalorically equivalent ﬁber-free formula. 
27 
 Finally, consumption of a liquid meal
containing either guar gum or a weak- or strong-gelling alginate led to signiﬁcantincreases in the sense of fullness over 2 hours compared with a ﬁber-free liquid meal. 
28 
  
B. P 
OTENTIAL 
 M 
ECHANISM 
  
FOR 
 E 
NHANCED 
 S 
ATIETY 
How dietary ﬁber increases satiety and reduces hunger is unknown. A number ofmechanisms have been postulated with varying degrees of evidence to support 
7950_C007.fm  Page 201  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
202 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
them. 
23,29 
 The following is a description of several of the more plausible mechanisms
and a discussion of the evidence supporting them. 
1. Gastric Distension 
Viscous or gel-forming dietary ﬁbers will hydrate in the stomach when mixed with
gastric juices, potentially leading to signiﬁcant gastric distention. It is known thatgastric distension will lead to early satiation, an effect mediated by vagus nervemechanoreceptors, and thus is referred to as a volumetric response. 
30 
 Dietary ﬁber
may delay gastric emptying (discussed below) and thus prolong gastric distension,leading to a prolonged satiating signal. This concept was tested using a syntheticdietary ﬁber that exists as a liquid at room temperature, but gels at body tempera-ture. 
31 
 This liquid ﬁber did reduce hunger and increase fullness, and delayed the
time to the next meal. Thus, the concept that gelling ﬁbers may increase satiety byincreasing gastric distension seems to have some merit. However, there is a synergybetween the volumetric signal due to gastric distension and the intestinal nutrientsignals of satiety. 
30 
 With a delayed gastric emptying, there may be an attenuation of
the intestinal nutrient signal, thus lessening the overall satiety signal. Further, theimpact on gastric distension from dietary ﬁber present in foods may be quite differ-ent, and has yet to be determined. 
2. Delayed Glucose Absorption 
A slower absorption of glucose from a meal, as indicated by a lower postprandialblood glucose concentration over time after consumption of a starch- or sugar-containing meal, is one of the best established physiological effects of viscous dietaryﬁbers. A typical blood glucose curve after ingestion of a viscous ﬁber is shown inFigure 7.3. This pattern is also typical of the difference between low- and high-glycemic index (GI) foods. The GI is usually deﬁned as the area under the 2-hourpostprandial glucose curve after consumption of a test food containing 50 g ofcarbohydrate, relative to the area under the 2-hour curve for either white bread orglucose. 
32 
 A high-GI food would give a curve similar to the control in Figure 7.3,
whereas a low-GI food would appear similar to the viscous ﬁber. Although dietaryﬁber is certainly one factor that inﬂuences the GI value of a food, a number of otherfactors are also implicated, included the physical structure of the starch, method offood preparation, protein content, and presence of components such as phytate.
33
Nonetheless, given the similar glucose responses resulting from consumption ofviscous ﬁbers and low-GI foods, the effect of low-GI foods on satiety and hungercan provide insight into the likely effect of viscous ﬁbers. 
A large number of studies have examined the effect of low-GI foods on satiety
or subsequent hunger. As reviewed by Roberts, most short-term (1-meal or 1-day)studies show that they do increase satiety or decrease hunger.
34 However, when only
studies were considered in which the intake of energy, macronutrient content, energydensity, and palatability were comparable between groups, the results were ambig-uous; no clear pattern of low-GI foods promoting satiety or satiation was evident.Several studies have shown that rapid drops in serum glucose precede the onset ofhunger or feeding,
35,36 which would be consistent with the idea that the rapid fall in7950_C007.fm  Page 202  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

Inﬂuence of Dietary Fiber on Body Weight Regulation 203
serum glucose experienced by those consuming high-GI foods would stimulate
hunger. For example, Campﬁeld et al. monitored blood glucose concentrations ofhealthy adult subjects over time and had them complete ratings of satiety andhunger.
37 In most subjects hunger ratings and requests for a meal were correlated
with drops in serum glucose. There was also an association between a rapid dropin serum glucose and desire to eat when the drop in glucose was induced by infusionof insulin. Thus, there is a physiological basis for greater satiety after consumptionof viscous ﬁbers that attenuate the decline in serum glucose after a meal.
How viscous dietary ﬁbers attenuate the postprandial blood glucose response
has not been determined with certainty. The most cited possibilities include a delayedrate of gastric emptying, delayed starch digestion, or slowed diffusion of glucosewithin the small intestine. Studies examining the effect of viscous ﬁbers on the rateof glucose absorption within the small intestine have been contradictory, with evi-dence both for
38 and against39 a slowing of absorption. Likewise, studies examining
the effect of viscous ﬁbers on the rate of gastric emptying have been inconsistent,with both no effect
40 or a delay reported.39 Since these mechanisms are not mutually
exclusive, the effect could be a result of a combination of these effects. 
3. Hormonal Effects
The gastrointestinal tract is a major endocrine organ. A number of peptide hormones
are released from the stomach, small intestine, and large intestine in response tovarious stimuli. A number of these hormones appear to play important roles in theregulation of feeding behavior.FIGURE 7.3 Typical blood glucose curve after ingestion of a viscous ﬁber.Time Postprandial (minutes)0 3 06 09 0 1 2 0 1 5 0 1 8 0Blood glucose (mmol/L)
3.84.04.24.44.64.85.05.25.4
Control
Viscous ﬁber7950_C007.fm  Page 203  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

204 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
a. Cholecystokinin
Cholescystokinin (CCK) is released from the duodenum in response to a meal,
primarily in response to fat and protein digestion products, and acts to reduce foodintake, although this effect is short-lived.
41 The mechanism of action of CCK in
reducing food intake remains uncertain, but may involve an inhibition of gastricemptying or direct activation of vagal afferent ﬁbers.
41 
The effect of dietary ﬁber on serum CCK has been inconsistent. Pectin feeding
to obese subjects caused increased satiety and a delay in gastric emptying, but nochange in postprandial serum CCK.
42 Likewise, in a study in which barley pasta
enriched with the viscous ﬁber β-glucan was fed to subjects, no difference in the
area under the time curve was found for serum CCK between the control mealcontaining no viscous ﬁber and the β-glucan-enriched pasta-containing meals.
43
However, CCK concentrations remained signiﬁcantly elevated above the baselinevalue longer in subjects consuming the enriched pasta meals than those consumingthe control meal. In another study, the CCK area under the time curve was doubledin subjects who consumed bean ﬂakes, a rich source of dietary ﬁber, compared withthose consuming a low-ﬁber meal.
44 In a subsequent study, women, but not men,
showed a similar increase in the CCK area under the curve when consuming beanﬂakes in the context of a low-fat meal.
45 However, there was a strong correlation
between satiety scores and the plasma CCK response, suggesting that the greatersatiety produced by meals containing viscous ﬁber may be mediated, at least in part,by an enhanced release of CCK.
4. Glucagon-Like Peptide 1
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36) amide (GLP-1) is cleaved from preproglucagon,
located in the endocrine L-cells of the distal small intestine, cecum, and colon,
46
and released into the circulation in response to a meal. It is a potent incretin,stimulating the glucose-dependent postprandial release of insulin.
47 Infusion of GLP-1
during a meal into obese humans was shown to decrease the onset of hungercompared with a saline infusion. Subjects also showed decreased stomach emptyingand lower postprandial serum glucose,
48 suggesting these responses are the mecha-
nisms by which GLP-1 decreases hunger onset. 
A number of studies have examined the effect of dietary ﬁber consumption on
either plasma GLP-1 concentrations after a meal, intestinal tissue GLP-1 protein, orproglucagon mRNA content. Long-term consumption of oligofructose increasescirculating GLP-1 in rodents
49,50 and humans.51 Likewise, feeding a mixture of
dietary ﬁbers was found to increase plasma GLP-1 and intestinal proglucagon mRNAin dogs
52 and in rats maintained on a elemental diet.53 
The characteristic of dietary ﬁber responsible for the enhanced secretion of GLP-1
in response to a meal appears to be fermentability. Oligofructose, a ﬁber thatincreases circulating GLP-1, as described above, is highly fermentable. Rats fedrhubarb stalk ﬁber, which is highly fermentable, had greater ileal proglucagon mRNAthat those fed an equivalent amount of cellulose, a poorly fermented ﬁber.
54 Yet, rats
fed the highly fermentable sugar alcohol lactitol did not have a greater concentrationof plasma GLP-1 than the control group,
55 raising some uncertainty regarding the7950_C007.fm  Page 204  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

Inﬂuence of Dietary Fiber on Body Weight Regulation 205
role of fermentation in enhancing GLP-1 secretion. How viscous dietary ﬁbers might
effect GLP-1 secretion has yet to be examined.
C. S UMMARY
There is consistent evidence indicating that dietary ﬁber promotes satiety. However,due to the variety of different ﬁber types employed, it is difﬁcult to draw conclusionsabout either the most efﬁcacious type of dietary ﬁber or the amount needed to providea signiﬁcant degree of satiety. There are a number of plausible mechanisms by whichdietary ﬁber may induce satiety, and evidence supporting each of them exists. Giventhe interrelatedness of some of these mechanisms, for example the effect of CCKand GLP-1 on slowing gastric emptying, it is unlikely that a single mechanism fordietary ﬁber-induced satiety will be identiﬁed. 
V. CONCLUSIONS
Consumption of dietary ﬁber has declined dramatically as humans have adoptedwhat we now refer to as the “western” lifestyle. Concomitant with this adoption ofthe western lifestyle has been an increase in a constellation of chronic diseases, suchas various types of cancer, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and obesity. The role thedecline in dietary ﬁber consumption has played in the dramatic increases in thesechronic diseases remains uncertain and controversial, in spite of considerable studyof the relationship. However, sufﬁcient evidence has accumulated to make a com-pelling case that a high intake of dietary ﬁber can help normalize body weight. Itis likely that at least part of this effect is mediated by an increase in satiety afterconsumption of high-ﬁber meals. How dietary ﬁber promotes weight loss, whichtypes of dietary ﬁber are most efﬁcacious, and what is the optimal amount of dietaryﬁber are all questions that future research should be directed toward. 
REFERENCES
1. U.S. Obesity Trends 1985–2005. http://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp/dnpa/obesity/trend/maps/
index.htm, Accessed November 30, 2005.
2. Gallaher, D. D., Dietary ﬁber, in Present Knowledge in Nutrition, 9th ed. , Bowman,
B. A. and Russell, R. M. International Life Sciences Institute, Washington, D.C.,
2006, pp. 102–10.
3. Eaton, S. B., Eaton, S. B. 3rd, Konner, M. J., and Shostak, M., An evolutionary
perspective enhances understanding of human nutritional requirements, J. Nutr., 126,
1732–1740, 1996.
4. Lee, R., !Kung Bushmen Subsistence: An Input-Output Analysis, in Environment and
Cultural Behavior , Vayda, AP Natural History Press, New York, 1969, pp. 47–79.
5. Liu, S., Willett, W. C., Manson, J. E., Hu, F. B., Rosner, B., and Colditz, G., Relation
between changes in intakes of dietary ﬁber and grain products and changes in weight anddevelopment of obesity among middle-aged women, Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 78, 920–927, 2003.
6. Bes-Rastrollo, M., Martinez-Gonzalez, M. A., Sanchez-Villegas, A., de la Fuente Arril-
laga, C., and Martinez, J. A., Association of ﬁber intake and fruit/vegetable consumptionwith weight gain in a Mediterranean population, Nutrition, 22, 504–511, 2006.7950_C007.fm  Page 205  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

206 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
7. Lindstrom, J., Peltonen, M., Eriksson, J. G., Louheranta, A., Fogelholm, M., Uusitupa,
M., and Tuomilehto, J., High-ﬁbre, low-fat diet predicts long-term weight loss and
decreased type 2 diabetes risk: The Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study, Diabetologia,
49, 912–920, 2006.
8. Koh-Banerjee, P., Chu, N. F., Spiegelman, D., Rosner, B., Colditz, G., Willett, W.,
and Rimm, E., Prospective study of the association of changes in dietary intake,physical activity, alcohol consumption, and smoking with 9-y gain in waist circum-ference among 16 587 US men, Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 78, 719–927, 2003.
9. Ludwig, D. S., Pereira, M. A., Kroenke, C. H., Hilner, J. E., Van Horn, L., Slattery,
M. L., and Jacobs, D. R., Jr., Dietary ﬁber, weight gain, and cardiovascular diseaserisk factors in young adults, JAMA, 282, 1539–1546, 1999.
10. Iqbal, S. I., Helge, J. W., and Heitmann, B. L., Do energy density and dietary ﬁber
inﬂuence subsequent 5-year weight changes in adult men and women?, Obesity (Silver
Spring), 14, 106–114, 2006.
11. Miller, W. C., Niederpruem, M. G., Wallace, J. P., and Lindeman, A. K., Dietary fat,
sugar, and ﬁber predict body fat content, J. Am. Diet. Assoc., 94, 612–615, 1994.
12. Alﬁeri, M. A., Pomerleau, J., Grace, D. M., and Anderson, L., Fiber intake of normal
weight, moderately obese and severely obese subjects, Obes. Res. 3, 541–547, 1995.
13. Davis, J. N., Hodges, V . A., and Gillham, M. B., Normal-weight adults consume more
ﬁber and fruit than their age- and height-matched overweight/obese counterparts,J. Am. Diet. Assoc., 106, 833–840, 2006.
14. Nelson, L. H. and Tucker, L. A., Diet composition related to body fat in a multivariate
study of 203 men, J. Am. Diet. Assoc., 96, 771–777, 1996.
15. Tai, E. S., Fok, A. C., Chu, R., and Tan, C. E., A study to assess the effect of dietary
supplementation with soluble ﬁbre (Minolest) on lipid levels in normal subjects withhypercholesterolaemia, Ann. Acad. Med. Singapore, 28, 209–213, 1999.
16. Melanson, K. J., Angelopoulos, T. J., Nguyen, V . T., Martini, M., Zukley, L., Lowndes,
J., Dube, T. J., Fiutem, J. J., Yount, B. W., and Rippe, J. M., Consumption of whole-grain cereals during weight loss: Effects on dietary quality, dietary ﬁber, magnesium,vitamin B-6, and obesity, J. Am. Diet. Assoc., 106, 1380–1388; quiz 89–90, 2006.
17. Conceicao de Oliveira, M., Sichieri, R., and Sanchez Moura, A., Weight loss associ-
ated with a daily intake of three apples or three pears among overweight women,Nutrition, 19, 253–256, 2003.
18. Rock, C. L., Thomson, C., Caan, B. J., Flatt, S. W., Newman, V ., Ritenbaugh, C., Marshall,
J. R., Hollenbach, K. A., Stefanick, M. L., and Pierce, J. P., Reduction in fat intakeis not associated with weight loss in most women after breast cancer diagnosis:Evidence from a randomized controlled trial, Cancer , 91, 25–34, 2001.
19. Holt, S. H., Miller, J. C., Petocz, P., and Farmakalidis, E., A satiety index of common
foods, Eur. J. Clin. Nutr., 49, 675–690, 1995.
20. Johnstone, A. M., Stubbs, R. J., and Harbron, C. G., Effect of overfeeding macronu-
trients on day-to-day food intake in man, Eur. J. Clin. Nutr., 50, 418–430, 1996.
21. Marmonier, C., Chapelot, D., and Louis-Sylvestre, J., Effects of macronutrient content
and energy density of snacks consumed in a satiety state on the onset of the nextmeal, Appetite, 34, 161–168, 2000.
22. Yao, M. and Roberts, S. B., Dietary energy density and weight regulation, Nutr. Rev.,
59, 247–258, 2001.
23. Howarth, N. C., Saltzman, E., and Roberts, S. B., Dietary ﬁber and weight regulation,
Nutr. Rev., 59, 129–139, 2001.7950_C007.fm  Page 206  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

Inﬂuence of Dietary Fiber on Body Weight Regulation 207
24. Holt, S. H., Brand-Miller, J. C., and Stitt, P. A., The effects of equal-energy portions
of different breads on blood glucose levels, feelings of fullness and subsequent food
intake, J. Am. Diet. Assoc., 101, 767–73, 2001.
25. Pai, S., Ghugre, P. S., and Udipi, S. A., Satiety from rice-based, wheat-based and
rice-pulse combination preparations, Appetite, 44, 263–271, 2005.
26. Archer, B. J., Johnson, S. K., Devereux, H. M., and Baxter, A. L., Effect of fat
replacement by inulin or lupin-kernel ﬁbre on sausage patty acceptability, post-mealperceptions of satiety and food intake in men, Br. J. Nutr., 91, 591–599, 2004.
27. Whelan, K., Efthymiou, L., Judd, P. A., Preedy, V . R., and Taylor, M. A., Appetite
during consumption of enteral formula as a sole source of nutrition: The effect ofsupplementing pea-ﬁbre and fructo-oligosaccharides, Br. J. Nutr., 96, 350–356, 2006.
28. Hoad, C. L., Rayment, P., Spiller, R. C., Marciani, L., Alonso Bde, C., Traynor,
C., Mela, D. J., Peters, H. P., and Gowland, P. A., In vivo  imaging of intragastric
gelation and its effect on satiety in humans, J. Nutr., 134, 2293–3000, 2004.
29. Pereira, M. A. and Ludwig, D. S., Dietary ﬁber and body-weight regulation. Obser-
vations and mechanisms, Pediatr. Clin. North Am., 48, 969–980, 2001.
30. Powley, T. L. and Phillips, R. J., Gastric satiation is volumetric, intestinal satiation
is nutritive, Physiol. Behav. 82, 69–74, 2004.
31. Tomlin, J., The effect of the gel-forming liquid ﬁbre on feeding behaviour in man,
Br. J. Nutr., 74, 427–36, 1995.
32. Wolever, T. M., Jenkins, D. J., Jenkins, A. L., and Josse, R. G., The glycemic index:
Methodology and clinical implications, Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 54, 846–854, 1991.
33. Trout, D. L., Behall, K. M., and Osilesi, O., Prediction of glycemic index for starchy
foods, Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 58, 873–878, 1993.
34. Roberts, S. B., High-glycemic index foods, hunger, and obesity: Is there a connec-
tion?, Nutr. Rev., 58, 163–169, 2000.
35. Louis-Sylvestre, J. and Le Magnen, J., Fall in blood glucose level precedes meal
onset in free-feeding rats, Neurosci. Biobehav. Rev., 4 Suppl 1, 13–5, 1980.
36. Smith, F. J. and Campﬁeld, L. A., Meal initiation occurs after experimental induction
of transient declines in blood glucose, Am. J. Physiol., 265, R1423–R1429, 1993.
37. Campﬁeld, L. A., Smith, F. J., Rosenbaum, M., and Hirsch, J., Human eating:
Evidence for a physiological basis using a modiﬁed paradigm, Neurosci. Biobehav.
Rev. 20, 133–137, 1996.
38. Blackburn, N. A., Redfern, J. S., Jarjis, H., Holgate, A. M., Hanning, I., Scarpello,
J. H., Johnson, I. T., and Read, N. W., The mechanism of action of guar gum inimproving glucose tolerance in man, Clin. Sci. (Lond.), 66, 329–336, 1984.
39. Leclere, C. J., Champ, M., Boillot, J., Guille, G., Lecannu, G., Molis, C., Bornet, F.,
Krempf, M., Delort-Laval, J., and Galmiche, J. P., Role of viscous guar gums inlowering the glycemic response after a solid meal, Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 59, 914–921,
1994.
40. Bianchi, M. and Capurso, L., Effects of guar gum, ispaghula and microcrystalline
cellulose on abdominal symptoms, gastric emptying, orocaecal transit time and gasproduction in healthy volunteers, Dig. Liver Dis., 34 Suppl 2, S129–S133, 2002.
41. Chaudhri, O., Small, C., and Bloom, S., Gastrointestinal hormones regulating appe-
tite, Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B. Biol. Sci., 361, 1187–1209, 2006.
42. Di Lorenzo, C., Williams, C. M., Hajnal, F., and Valenzuela, J. E., Pectin delays
gastric emptying and increases satiety in obese subjects, Gastroenterology, 95,
1211–1215, 1988.7950_C007.fm  Page 207  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

208 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
43. Bourdon, I., Yokoyama, W., Davis, P., Hudson, C., Backus, R., Richter, D., Knuckles,
B., and Schneeman, B. O., Postprandial lipid, glucose, insulin, and cholecystokinin
responses in men fed barley pasta enriched with beta-glucan, Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 69,
55–63, 1999.
44. Bourdon, I., Olson, B., Backus, R., Richter, B. D., Davis, P. A., and Schneeman, B.
O., Beans, as a source of dietary ﬁber, increase cholecystokinin and apolipoproteinb48 response to test meals in men, J. Nutr. 131, 1485–1490, 2001.
45. Burton-Freeman, B., Davis, P. A., and Schneeman, B. O., Plasma cholecystokinin is
associated with subjective measures of satiety in women, Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 76,
659–67, 2002.
46. Eissele, R., Goke, R., Willemer, S., Harthus, H. P., Vermeer, H., Arnold, R., and Goke,
B., Glucagon-like peptide-1 cells in the gastrointestinal tract and pancreas of rat, pigand man, Eur. J. Clin. Invest., 22, 283–291, 1992.
47. Holst, J. J., Orskov, C., Nielsen, O. V ., and Schwartz, T. W., Truncated glucagon-like
peptide I, an insulin-releasing hormone from the distal gut, FEBS Lett., 211, 169–174,
1987.
48. Naslund, E., Gutniak, M., Skogar, S., Rossner, S., and Hellstrom, P. M., Glucagon-
like peptide 1 increases the period of postprandial satiety and slows gastric emptyingin obese men, Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 68, 525–530, 1998.
49. Delmee, E., Cani, P. D., Gual, G., Knauf, C., Burcelin, R., Maton, N., and Delzenne,
N. M., Relation between colonic proglucagon expression and metabolic response tooligofructose in high fat diet-fed mice, Life Sci., 79, 1007–1013, 2006.
50. Cani, P. D., Neyrinck, A. M., Maton, N., and Delzenne, N. M., Oligofructose promotes
satiety in rats fed a high-fat diet: involvement of glucagon-like peptide-1, Obes. Res.,
13, 1000–1007, 2005.
51. Piche, T., des Varannes, S. B., Sacher-Huvelin, S., Holst, J. J., Cuber, J. C., and
Galmiche, J. P., Colonic fermentation inﬂuences lower esophageal sphincter functionin gastroesophageal reﬂux disease, Gastroenterology, 124, 894–902, 2003.
52. Massimino, S. P., McBurney, M. I., Field, C. J., Thomson, A. B., Keelan, M., Hayek,
M. G., and Sunvold, G. D., Fermentable dietary ﬁber increases GLP-1 secretion andimproves glucose homeostasis despite increased intestinal glucose transport capacityin healthy dogs, J. Nutr. 128, 1786–1793, 1998.
53. Reimer, R. A. and McBurney, M. I., Dietary ﬁber modulates intestinal proglucagon
messenger ribonucleic acid and postprandial secretion of glucagon-like peptide-1 andinsulin in rats, Endocrinology, 137, 3948–3956, 1996.
54. Reimer, R. A., Thomson, A. B., Rajotte, R. V ., Basu, T. K., Ooraikul, B., and
McBurney, M. I., A physiological level of rhubarb ﬁber increases proglucagon geneexpression and modulates intestinal glucose uptake in rats, J. Nutr., 127, 1923–1928,
1997.
55. Gee, J. M. and Johnson, I. T., Dietary lactitol fermentation increases circulating
peptide YY and glucagon-like peptide-1 in rats and humans, Nutrition, 21,
1036–1043, 2005.7950_C007.fm  Page 208  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:41 AM

 
209 
8 
Nutritional Implications 
of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 
A.C. Maher and Mark A. Tarnopolsky 
CONTENTS  
I.  Introduction ..................................................................................................210
II. Muscle-Related Differences Between Sexes and with Aging.....................210III. Sex Differences in Substrate Metabolism during Endurance Exercise ......211
A. Carbohydrate Metabolism ....................................................................212
1. Sex Differences in Carbohydrate Metabolism..............................2122. Nutritional Implications of Carbohydrate Loading ......................213
B. Lipid Metabolism .................................................................................215
C. Protein Metabolism...............................................................................215
1. Sex Differences in Protein Utilization ..........................................217
2. Metabolic Regulators as a Mechanism for Sex Differences 
in Protein Oxidation ......................................................................218
3. Athletic Differences in Protein Requirements ..............................218
IV . Effects of Sex Hormones on Substrate Metabolism 
during Endurance Exercise ..........................................................................219
A. Estrogen and Sex Differences ..............................................................219B. Sex Differences due to Testosterone....................................................222
V . Change in Substrate Metabolism with Aging .............................................222
A. Carbohydrate Metabolism with Aging.................................................223B. Lipid Metabolism .................................................................................224C. Protein Metabolism...............................................................................224D. Beneﬁts of Exercise and Hormone Replacement Therapy 
in the Elderly ........................................................................................226
VI. Summary ......................................................................................................227References..............................................................................................................227 
7950_C008.fm  Page 209  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

 
210 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
I. INTRODUCTION 
It has been assumed for many years that men and women responded similarly to
metabolic stress; however, accumulating evidence supports that sex (gender) playsa role in metabolism. Metabolically, women demonstrate higher relative lipid oxi-dation and lower protein and carbohydrate oxidation at submaximal exercise inten-sity compared to men. 
1–10 
 Physiologically, men have a greater accumulation of
muscle mass and strength following resistance exercise than women. 
11,12 
 
Changes in metabolism are likely genetically regulated either by predetermined
expression of genes or by the regulation of gene expression through cell signalingmechanisms, for example, sex hormones. 
13,14 
 Metabolically, the sex hormones appear
to have a signiﬁcant effect on sex- and aging-related differences in substrate utili-zation. Estrogen appears to favor lipid oxidation as observed when men and malerats are supplemented with 17  
β 
-estradiol. 
10,15 
 In addition, ovariectomized female
rodents demonstrated higher carbohydrate oxidation and lower lipid oxidation thatis reversed with estrogen supplementation. 
16 
 Interestingly, women have a longer life
span and lower mortality rates than men. In terms of muscle mass and strength gains,
testosterone has a potent anabolic effect, whereas estrogen has a mild anabolic effectthat is important in postmenopausal women, for estrogen replacement therapy maycounteract the decline in muscle mass seen at that time. 
17 
 Testosterone supplemen-
tation in elderly men to levels of young men increases muscle size and strength. 
13 
 
Recent advances in modern techniques such as proteomics and gene array
analysis will likely be useful in helping us understand the molecular basis for sex
differences in metabolism, aging, and the inﬂuence of sex hormones. The implica-tions of aging and sex differences on substrate metabolism and the impact of thison nutritional recommendations are only just beginning to be elucidated, and speciﬁcrecommendations for elderly, recreational, and top sport athletes will be an interest-ing practical area for future research.  
II. MUSCLE-RELATED DIFFERENCES BETWEEN SEXES 
AND WITH AGING 
Muscles size and function can be altered by exercise, nutrition, hormones, and aging.All these factors are correlated with muscle metabolism. Before discussing differ-ences in muscle metabolism between sexes and the implications of aging, it isimportant to review the physiological differences in muscle ﬁber type between menand women, as well as changes with aging, which might ultimately play a role inmetabolism. It is also important to keep in mind that as men and women age thereare factors that alter muscle metabolism such as disease, muscle loss, strength andmuscle quality reduction, menopause in women, and andropause in men. 
Muscle is composed of three types of muscle ﬁbers; Type I, IIA, IIX. In terms
of sex differences in ﬁber type, men have a signiﬁcantly larger type I ﬁber area inthe biceps brachii, and larger type II ﬁber area in the vastus lateralis than women. 
18,19 
Women have a greater type I ﬁber percent area than men in the vastus lateralis. 
19 
Similar results were found in rats, where the cross sectional area of type II ﬁbersof the soleus and tibialis were greater in males, and the cross-sectional area of type 
7950_C008.fm  Page 210  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

 
Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 
211 
I ﬁbers was greater in females; however, there were no signiﬁcant differences in the
percentage of each individual ﬁber. 
20 
 Metabolically, a higher proportion of type I
ﬁbers has been correlated with higher fat oxidation rates. Type I ﬁbers have a greaterexpression of fatty acid transport protein, FAT/CD36, 
21 
 and women express almost
50% more FAT/CD36 than men. 
22 
 
The myoﬁbril is the contractile component of skeletal muscle and it is likely
that age-related losses in muscle strength, mass, and function can be attributed toalterations in myoﬁbrillar protein with age. However, the most consistently reportedage-related change in muscle morphology is a reduction in type II ﬁber size. 
23,24 
Similarly, older adults have a higher proportion of ﬁbers showing a coexistence ofmyosin heavy chain type I and IIA, and type IIA and IIX, as compared with youngadults, 
25 
 suggesting that ﬁber-type transitions occur with age. The age-related shift
in ﬁber type affects whole muscle performance, for a greater proportion of type Iﬁbers results in relative fatigue resistance, while a reduced proportion of type II
ﬁbers results in a reduction in peak torque. 
26 
 Frontera et al (2002) found that as ﬁber
type shifted toward slow ﬁbers in aging men, there was a reduction in the force per
unit muscle mass, maximal force from type I and type IIA single ﬁbers was reduced,type IIA ﬁbers were weaker than type I ﬁbers, and strength in type IIA ﬁbers wasnot different from type I ﬁbers in older women. 
27 
 
These ﬁndings suggest that sex-related differences exist in muscle ﬁber type and
it is important to consider that this may inﬂuence metabolism and adaptive responsesto exercise. Furthermore, the discrepancy between men and women suggest that age-related sarcopenia may be regulated by different factors for men than for women.The role of estrogen in muscle remains an intriguing potential mechanism underlyingthe observed sex differences. More research is necessary to decipher these potentialsex differences and how they affect aging and muscle metabolism. 
Taken together, these observations suggest a general trend toward a decrease in
muscle strength through losses in type II ﬁber size and proportion, and an increasein the proportion of type I ﬁbers with normal human aging. More importantly, theseobservations suggest that ﬁber type transitions do occur in the elderly between typeI and type II ﬁbers, and that contractile proteins may become less efﬁcient with age.Furthermore, age-related changes of the myoﬁbril appear to be regulated by differentfactors in men and women. 
III. SEX DIFFERENCES IN SUBSTRATE METABOLISM 
DURING ENDURANCE EXERCISE 
The primary source for energy during exercise is fat and carbohydrate; however,protein does contribute a small amount of energy. 
28 
 There are sex differences in
energy substrate selection, with women relying primarily on lipid oxidation (62%),with men only utilizing approximately 43% fat. 
3,9,28,29 
 As expected, the greater
reliance on lipid oxidation in women during endurance exercise results in a lowerproportionate carbohydrate oxidation (Table 7.1). 
To compare between two groups of individuals (i.e., sex), several factors known
to alter substrate oxidation rate must be controlled for. First, training status andhabitual and pre-exercise dietary intake status are important factors when examining 
7950_C008.fm  Page 211  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

 
212 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
exercise and metabolism. One of the best ways to compare between the sexes is to
match men and women for training history, and given the higher percent body fatcontent for females, they should be compared using VO 
2peak  
expressed relative to fat-
free mass.  
30 
 In addition, with sex comparison studies, the menstrual cycle is known
to alter substrate oxidation and must be speciﬁed in any study. 
31,32 
 Sex comparison
studies should also test men and women at the same time (i.e., during the sameexperimental period and not with historical data) to control for variation in metaboliccharts, different calibrations of CO 
2 
/O 
2 
 gas mixture, and different staff involved in
the subject testing.
Irrespective of sex comparisons, key factors that are important to accurately
measure whole-body carbohydrate (and lipid) oxidation are to ascertain that subjectsare in a steady state and exercising below the anaerobic threshold. For example, theanaerobic threshold in untrained men and women may be as low as 66% of VO 
2peak,33 
and in the moderate to well trained athlete this may be as high as 80% of VO 
2peak 
, 
3 
with no sex difference. Sex comparisons of substrate oxidation rates exceeding thelactate threshold do not yield accurate or valid results.  
A. C 
ARBOHYDRATE 
 M 
ETABOLISM 
1. Sex Differences in Carbohydrate Metabolism 
Carbohydrates are a rapidly available source of energy. The Acceptable MacronutrientDistribution Range (AMDR) suggests that 45–65% of the diet should be carbohy-drates. 
34 
 Carbohydrates are stored in the muscle and liver in the form of glycogen.
Glycogen provides a rapid source of energy to the cells during exercise. For years itwas assumed that men and women respond similarly to exercise; however, the major-ity of cross-sectional studies summarized in a large-scale meta-analysis have foundthat whole-body carbohydrate oxidation rates are lower for women compared withmen during endurance exercise at sub-maximal exercise intensities (Table 7.1). 
30 
Furthermore, even after 2 or 3 months of exercise training, both men and womenshow the same sex-related differences in carbohydrate utilization. 
1,2,6,35 
The mechanism for the reduction in carbohydrate oxidation in women is unclear,
but likely involves an attenuation of predominantly hepatic and possibly muscleglycogen utilization. Recent studies examining glucose kinetics in men and womenduring exercise and post exercise have demonstrated that the rate of glucose appear-ance (Ra) and disappearance (Rd) was lower in women then men. 
36–38 
 To elucidate
the possible biological factors that may be regulating these differences, upstreamsubstrates have been examined including epinephrine, glucagon, and sex hormones.Interestingly, during exercise, the change in epinephrine concentrations are signiﬁ-cantly attenuated in women as compared with men. 
4,36,39,40 
 Studies have found that
the adipocytes from women show higher sensitivity to epinephrine as compared withmen. 
41–43 
 The latter results imply that there are sex differences in adrenergic receptor
density or post-receptor regulation, at least within the adipocytes. 
The data regarding a potential role for glucagon in the regulation of exercise
metabolism have not been conclusive. Glucagon plays a role in the release of glucosefrom the liver to maintain blood glucose levels. Horton et al. (2006) observed thatthe absolute resting value of glucagon was higher in women then men. 
36 
 In contrast, 
7950_C008.fm  Page 212  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

 
Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 
213 
Tarnopolsky et al. (1990) observed no difference in resting glucagon levels between
men and women. 
4 
 Both studies reported that men had a greater reduction in glucagon
during exercise, suggesting that glucagon does not affect glucose levels equallybased on sex. Further investigation is needed to establish the role of hormonal factorson substrate metabolism in men and women. 
Sex hormones such as estrogen and progesterone show a strong correlation with
the observed sex-based differences in substrate metabolism. Women in the lutealphase of their menstrual cycle have a signiﬁcantly lower glucose Ra and glucoseRd. 
37,44 
 Women in the luteal phase also show a reduction in glucose metabolic
clearance rates as compared with women in the follicular phase, and women in bothfollicular and luteal states still had a lower glucose Ra, glucose Rd, and metabolicclearance rates than men. 
37 
 Furthermore, women in the luteal phase of their menstrual
cycle had lower proglycogen, macroglycogen, and total glycogen utilization duringexercise than women in the follicular phase. 
37 
 Although there are changes in Ra and
Rd during different phases of the menstrual cycle, the signiﬁcance is unknown, asthere seems to be no signiﬁcant change in whole-body substrate metabolism. Thesedata support the possibility that sex hormones regulate some aspects of carbohydratemetabolism between men and women. The speciﬁc effects of estrogen supplemen-tation on substrate metabolism will be discussed later. 
2. Nutritional Implications of Carbohydrate Loading 
The term “carbohydrate loading” is used to describe the dietary strategies used
to increase dietary carbohydrate intake in order to maximize muscle (and liver)glycogen storage. Most strategies involve a period of reduced exercise volume andthe consumption of a diet that has a higher proportion of energy derived fromcarbohydrates for a period of 3 to 4 days. This strategy results in an increase inmuscle glycogen stores and an improvement in endurance exercise performance inmen. 
45,46 
 Muscle glycogen stores are positively correlated with endurance exercise
performance at intensities from 60–75% of maximal aerobic power, 
47,48 
 and dietary
manipulations lead to a higher carbohydrate intake and can enhance enduranceexercise performance in men. 
45,46 
 
Carbohydrate loading was ﬁrst described in male subjects. 
43–46 
 Interestingly,
there appears to be a sex difference in the ability to carbohydrate load. Tarnopolskyet al. (1995) demonstrated that increasing pre-exercise carbohydrates to 75% totalenergy intake in men and women athletes increased resting muscle glycogen contentby 45% in men, which was correlated with a similar increase in performance (43%);whereas the females showed neither an increase in glycogen content nor in exerciseperformance. 
5 
 These ﬁndings have been supported in a study that demonstrated that
well trained women athletes showed comparatively modest increases in muscleglycogen and exercise performance following carbohydrate loading. 
49 
 Interestingly,
in each of the aforementioned studies there was a lower relative and absolute energyintake by the women, which meant that women consumed fewer carbohydrate on aper kilogram body weight basis (<7 g/kg/d); on the other hand, in studies evaluatingcarbohydrate loading in men, the corresponding amount of dietary carbohydrateusually amounts to >8 g/kg/d. 
5,50,51 
 In subsequent studies, when women increased
their total energy intake by 30% and consumed 75% (>8 g/kg/d) of their energy 
7950_C008.fm  Page 213  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

 
214 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
from carbohydrates there was a signiﬁcant increase in muscle glycogen content. 
52,53 
However, the magnitude of the increase in muscle glycogen stores was about 50%
that of men on a similar diet. 
52,53 
 Furthermore, there were no differences in the ability
of women to carbohydrate load in different stages of their menstrual cycle. 
53 
 From
a practical perspective, a female who weighs 60 kg and was consuming 2,500 kcal/dwould have to consume 77% of their energy from carbohydrates to attain an intakeof >8.0 g/kg/d and nearly 100% would have to come from carbohydrates if herenergy intake was ~ 2,000 kcal/d. Increasing energy intake by 33% appears to allowfor some ability to carbohydrate load; however, the practical issues of the associatedweight gain may attenuate their enthusiasm for such a strategy. Overall, the balanceof the data suggests that the ability and practical issues surrounding carbohydrateloading in women may limit the acceptance and efﬁcacy of such a strategy in women.Furthermore, studies have not yet been completed to determine whether any increasein glycogen in women will result in an increase in performance. 
The provision of exogenous carbohydrate during endurance exercise can delay
the onset of fatigue and promote higher glucose oxidation rates in the latter stages
of endurance exercise in men. 
54–58 
 The few studies that have examined the effect of
exogenous carbohydrate intake on endurance exercise metabolism and performance
in women have found that women who consume a 6%-8% glucose solution have anincrease in exercise performance during both the follicular and luteal phases of themenstrual cycle. 
32,59 
 Furthermore, women who oxidized a greater proportion of
exogenous carbohydrate had a greater attenuation of endogenous glucose oxidationas compared with men during exercise. 
60 
 A study comparing both men and women
showed no sex differences in the metabolic response to exogenous carbohydrateutilization during endurance exercise. 
61 
 These ﬁndings suggest that the consumption
of exogenous carbohydrates during endurance exercise would be beneﬁcial to exer-cise performance in both men and women. 
The beneﬁts of carbohydrate supplementation in the postexercise recovery period
and the impact upon glycogen resynthesis have been examined in men and women.The administration of 1 g/kg carbohydrate or carbohydrate (0.75 g/kg)  
+ 
 protein
(0.1 g/kg)  
+ 
 fat (0.02 g/kg), immediately following endurance exercise increased
the rate of glycogen resynthesis in men and women similarly. 
62 
 Interestingly, the
provision of carbohydrates and protein immediately following endurance exerciseduring a week of intensiﬁed training led to an improvement in nitrogen (protein)retention and an improvement in exercise performance in women. 
63 
 Therefore, in
the immediate postexercise period, women and men show similar rates of glycogenresynthesis and women derive performance enhancement from such a strategy duringintensiﬁed training.
In summary, it appears that women can carbohydrate load if their habitual energy
intake results in a relative carbohydrate intake of greater than 8 g/kg/d. With addi-tional energy and an increase in the proportion of carbohydrates, women can increasemuscle glycogen content. Men and women show similar responses to exogenouscarbohydrate provision during exercise, and both sexes increase performance.Finally, carbohydrate intake immediatelypostexercise increases the rates of glycogenresynthesis in both men and women and can spare protein in women during inten-siﬁed training.  
7950_C008.fm  Page 214  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

 
Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 
215 
B. L 
IPID 
 M 
ETABOLISM 
Fats become proportionately more important as a fuel source with prolonged endur-
ance exercise. One gram of fat yields over twice the energy of carbohydrate. 
64,65 
 The
AMDR recommends that 20–35% of an adult’s dietary intake should be fat. 
34 
 Fats
are predominantly stored as triglycerides in adipocytes; however, fatty acids can alsobe stored in skeletal muscle as intramyocellular lipids (IMCLs). 
66 
 IMCLs are situated
in the sarcoplasma in direct contact with mitochondria, the location of fat oxidation, 
67 
serving as a direct energy source during exercise. IMCLs are highest in oxidativetype I muscle ﬁbers. 
68 
 Trained athletes have a higher IMCL content than sedentary
people and IMCL content is lower following prolonged submaximal exercise. 
69 
Interestingly, one study found that IMCL utilization was apparent in skeletal muscleof women but not men. 
70 
 High dietary fat also increases IMCL content and plays a
role in insulin sensitivity in nonathletes. 
71 
 
Similar to the sex differences in carbohydrate metabolism, there are sex differences
in whole-body fat oxidation observed by the lower RER in women (Table 8.1). Thehigher oxidation of lipids in women is observed during endurance-based exercise.Interestingly, women have higher IMCLs than men. 
70 
 The source of the higher lipid
use for the women during endurance exercise is likely to be a greater use of IMCL, 
70 
and to a lesser extent, blood-borne free fatty acids (FFAs). 
1,19 
 High fat diets in men
have been shown to increase fat oxidation and whole body lipolysis by increasingthe IMCL content, irrespective of changes in plasma FFAs. 
72 
 Using glycerol tracers,
several studies have found that women had a higher lipolytic rate than men duringendurance exercise. 
1,2,73 
 The higher muscle LPL activity for women may drive FFAs
from blood-derived chylomicrons and very low density lipoproteins toward a higherIMCL storage in women with a consequently higher oxidation rate. Trained womenrunners on a moderate-fat diet restored baseline IMCL content in 22 hours, 
74 
 yet it
took trained male cyclists 48 hours to replace IMCL content. 
75 
 Interestingly, a
moderate to higher fat diet (35–68% of energy as fat) can restore IMCL content inathletes within 48 hours, but most athletes consume only ~24% of energy as fat,which is not enough to restore IMCL levels within 48 hours. 
74–76 
 It would be of
interest to determine if there is a sex difference in the responsiveness to high-fatdiets between men and women. One would predict that perhaps women may beneﬁtfrom a high-fat recovery diet, where as men may not. Further studies need to bedone to elucidate the effect of high-fat diets on exercise performance since somestudies demonstrate a positive outcome, 
77,78 
 and others no change. 
79,80 
 
In summary, there is strong support that women have higher lipid oxidation
during endurance exercise due predominantly to a higher IMCL content and possiblyto a more efﬁcient uptake of plasma FFAs than men. Based on the current literaturethat women demonstrate a preference for fat, metabolism might indicate that sport-related dietary interventions may be different for men and women.  
C. P 
ROTEIN 
 M 
ETABOLISM 
Of the 20 different types of amino acids in proteins, nine cannot be synthesized bythe body and must be supplied through dietary sources. Protein can serve as an energysource; however, fats and carbohydrates are the preferred energy sources. To allow 
7950_C008.fm  Page 215  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

 
216 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
TABLE 8.1
Summary of Studies Where Whole Body Substrate Metabolism Was Reported 
in Men and Women 
Reference Subjects Exercise RER (mean) 
Costill et al., 1979  
193 
12 F, T
12 M, T60 min run @ 70% VO 
2max 
F  
= 
 0.83
M  
= 
 0.84
Froberg and Pederson, 
1984  
194 
7 F, T7 M, Tcycle to exhaustion @80  
+ 
 
90% VO 
2max 
F  
= 
 0.93
M  
= 
 0.97
Blatchford, et al., 
1985  
195 
6 F, T @ 35% VO 
2max 
90 min walk F  
= 
 0.81
M  
= 
 0.85
Tarnopolsky, et al.., 1990  
4 
6 F, T6 M, T15.5 km run @ ~65% VO 
2max 
 F  
= 
 0.876
M  
= 
 0.940
Phillips, et al., 1993 
3 
6 M, T 90 min cycle @ 65% VO 
2max 
 F  
= 
 0.820
M  
= 
 0.853
Tarnopolsky, et al.., 1995  
5 
8 F, T 7 M, T 60 min cycle @ 75% VO 
2max 
 F  
= 
 0.892
M  
= 
 0.923
Tarnopolsky, et al., 1997  
62 
8 F, T8 M, T90 min cycle @ 65% VO 
2max 
 F  
= 
 0.893
M  
= 
 0.918
Horton, et al., 1998 
6 
13 F, T  
+ 
 UT
14 M, T  
+ 
 UT120 min cycle @ 45% VO 
2max 
F  
= 
 0.84
M  
= 
 0.86
Friedlander, et al., 1998 
1 
17 F, UTT 19 M, UTT 60 min cycle @ 45 & 
65% VO 
2max F = 0.885
M = 0.932
Romijn, et al., 2000 1968 F, T 5 M, T 20–30 min cycle @ 
65% VO
2max F = 0.81
M = 0.81
McKenzie, et al., 
2000 356 F, UTT 6 M, UTT 90 min cycle @ 65% VO
2max F = 0.889
M = 0.914
Davis, et al, 2000 88 F, UT 8 M, UT 90 min cycle @ 50% VO
2max F = 0.92
M = 0.92
Goedecke, et al, 
2000 19716 F, T 45 M, T 10 min @ 25, 50, &
75% VO
2maxF = 0.90
M = 0.92
Rennie, et al., 2000§ 6, F UTT
5, M UTT90 min cycle @ 60% VO2max F = 0.893
M = 0.945
Carter, et al., 2001 28 F, UTT8 M, UTT 90 min cycle @ 60% VO
2max F = 0.847
M = 0.900
Lamont, et al., 2001 9 7 F, UTT7 M, UTT 60 min cycle @ 50% VO
2max F = 0.808
M = 0.868
Roepstorff, et al., 
2002 387 F, T7M, T 90 min cycle @ 58% VO
2max F = 0.886
M = 0.905
Melanson, et al., 
2002* 1988 F,T8 M,T400 kcal @ 40 + 70% VO
2max F = 0.87
M = 0.91
Mittendorfer, et al., 2002 
735 F, UT5 M, UT 90 min cycle @ 50% VO
2max F = 0.87 
M = 0.87
Steffensen, et al., 2002 7021 F, T +UT 21 M, T +UT 90 min cycle @ 60% VO2max F = 0.877
M = 0.893
Riddell, et al., 2003 60 7 F, T7 M, T 90 min cycle @ 60% VO
2max F = 0.93
M = 0.93
(Continued )7950_C008.fm  Page 216  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 217
protein to be used as a source of energy they must be broken down into constituent
amino acids, which can be used as fuel in muscle in several ways.64,65,81 The recom-
mended dietary allowance (RDA) for men and women over the age of 19 is 0.80g/kg protein. Protein requirements are determined based on the minimum necessarysupply of indispensable amino acids and the body’s ability to maintain nitrogenbalance.
34 Current dietary recommendations do not make allowances for a possible
inﬂuence of exercise on amino acid and protein requirements. 
1. Sex differences in protein utilization 
The evidence for whole body carbohydrate oxidation being higher for men as
compared with women, during endurance exercise, also predicts that amino acidoxidation would be higher in men. Whole-body experiments using urea excretiondemonstrated that overall amino acid oxidation was less for women than for men.Initial studies by our group found that men had higher urinary nitrogen excretionconsequent to endurance exercise as compared with women,
4 suggesting that amino
acid oxidation was higher during endurance exercise for men tham for women.Further research using 
13C-leucine stable isotope methodology in training matchedTABLE 8.1 (CONTINUED)Summary of Studies Where Whole Body Substrate Metabolism Was Reported 
in Men and Women
Reference Subjects Exercise RER (mean)
Lamont, et al., 2003 82 4 F, UT
4 M, UT 60 min cycle @ 50% VO2max F = 0.82
M = 0.83
M’Kaouar, et al., 
2004 1996 F, MT 6 M, MT 120 min cycle @ 65% VO
2max F = 93
M = 0.93
Devries, et al., 2005 37 13 F, MT10 M, MT90 min cycle @ 65% VO
2max F = 0.91
M = 0.94
Zehnder, et al., 2005 200 9 F, T9 M, T180 min cycle @ 50% VO
2max F = 0.86 
M = 0.88
Horton, et al., 2006 36 10 F, M T10 M, MT90 min cycle@ 57% VO
2max F = 0.865
M = 0.880
Roepstorff, et al., 
2006 2019 F M, T8 M, MT90 min cycle @60% VO
2max F = 0.85
M = 0.89
Wallis, et al., 2006 618 F, MT8 M, MT120 min cycle @ 67% VO
2max F = 0.82
M = 0.85
Mean n = 249F 
n = 273 M F = 0.869 (0.02)
M = 0.895 (0.02)†
Values are mean (SD). F = females; M = males; T = trained; A = active; U = untrained; UT = longitudinal
training study: for longitudinal training studies, the pre/post rides are all collapsed across time for eachsex. T + U = trained and untrained in same study. § = master’s thesis. * The RER was a combination of
those at both exercise intensities. † Signiﬁcant sex difference (P<0.001, 2 tailed independent t-test).7950_C008.fm  Page 217  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

218 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
men and women, demonstrating that leucine oxidation was lower for the women as
compared with men during endurance exercise.3,9,35,82,83 Interestingly, one study
found that women had a lower rate of leucine, but not lysine oxidation duringendurance exercise, as compared with men,
9 showing that the observed sex differ-
ences in oxidation may be amino acid speciﬁc. 
Studies have also examined the effect of menstrual cycle phase on amino acid
kinetics. Using 13C-leucine tracers, Lariviere et al. (1994) demonstrated that women
had a higher leucine oxidation during the luteal compared with follicular phase,84
and Lamont et al. (1987) found that that urinary urea nitrogen excretion was higherduring the luteal compared with the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle.
85 These
ﬁndings suggest that sex differences in protein regulation could be related to factorssuch as estrogen and progesterone levels. 
2. Metabolic Regulators as a Mechanism for Sex Differences 
in Protein Oxidation 
There are many possible metabolic regulators including: substrate availability, reg-
ulatory enzyme activity, catecholamine responsiveness, and sex steroid hormones.Substrate availability deﬁnitely plays a role in metabolic regulation of protein oxi-dation;
86 however, most well designed sex-comparison studies have ensured that men
and women were on controlled diets and received comparable protein based on g/kg.To examine the potential mechanism(s) behind this apparent sex difference in leucineoxidation, McKenzie et al. (2000)
35 measured the active form of branched chain 2-
oxo-acid dehydrogenase (BCOAD) in skeletal muscle of six men and six womenbefore and after a 31-day endurance exercise training program. BCOAD is the rate-limiting enzyme for muscle branched-chain amino acid oxidation. They found iden-tical BCOAD total activity levels and the acute exercise-induced percent activationbefore and after endurance training (although the basal activation was lower inwomen).
35 The lack of a sex difference in the acute exercise induced BCOAD
activation suggested that some of the attenuation of amino acid oxidation in womenmay be occurring at the hepatic level. This latter ﬁnding was also in keeping withan attenuation of hepatic glycogen utilization during exercise for the women. 
Sex differences could also be a result of variation in catecholamine responsive-
ness.
82,87 When the catecholamine receptors ( β1– and  β2-adrenergic receptors) were
blocked pharmacologically with propranalol, men had a further upregulation ofleucine oxidation with no observed changes in women.
82,87 In light of these initial
studies, further research is needed to determine the metabolic regulation of sex-related differences in amino acid utilization.
3. Athletic Differences in Protein Requirements 
There is considerable controversy concerning the optimal dietary protein requirement
for endurance athletes. Physical activity is not factored into most dietary proteinrequirements as exercise-related protein oxidation accounts for only, at most, 6% oftotal energy requirements.
3,35 Nitrogen-balance studies found that even after a suf-
ﬁcient adaptation period, moderately trained exercising men and women were bothin negative nitrogen balance on a diet supplying protein just above the RDA.
37950_C008.fm  Page 218  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 219
Interestingly, the nitrogen balance was more negative for the men (–26 mg/kg/d)
versus women (–16 mg/kg/d)3, indirectly suggesting that any elevation of dietary
protein requirements in top sport women athletes will be somewhat less than formen (~ 25% lower).
30 There is also an increase in leucine oxidation during endurance
exercise,3,35 which suggests that dietary protein requirements could be impacted if
the exercise duration were sufﬁciently long or the intensity sufﬁciently high. Theconsistent ﬁnding of higher exercise induced leucine oxidation in men comparedwith women
3,9,35,82,83 supports that men may require more protein than women.
Finally, the maximal BCOAD activity is greater after endurance exercise training,which suggests that the total capacity to oxidize amino acids is greater in the trainedstate.
35 
Studies have suggested that optimal protein intake for elite athletes should be
in the range of 1.0–1.8 g/kg of body weight.3,88–91 A recent study examining the
level of dietary protein required to achieve positive nitrogen balance in endurance
trained males was 1.2 g/kg, and consuming more (3.6 g/kg) protein showed no
advantage.86 In terms of energy requirements, if an athlete is consuming appropriate
energy and meeting the AMDR guidelines, he or she will meet these protein require-ments, as 1.2 g/kg is approximately 10% of total energy intake. The sports nutritionistcounseling an athlete must consider both the percentage as well as the per kilogramrequirements, for under some conditions, such as with those on a habitually lowenergy intake (i.e., amenorrheic women runners, body builders, etc.), 10% of energymay yield a suboptimal protein intake. 
In summary, the majority of research supports that elite endurance athletes
should consume 1.2–1.8 g/kg protein/d, which is higher than the RDA of 0.80 g/kg,but meets the AMDR, suggesting that the AMDR might be a better measure whentrying to determine the appropriate diet for an athlete (assuming that energy intakeis adequate). Clearly, more research is needed to determine if and how sex differencesin exercise metabolism will impact upon dietary protein requirements and the mech-anism(s) behind these ﬁndings. 
III. EFFECTS OF SEX HORMONES ON SUBSTRATE 
METABOLISM DURING ENDURANCE EXERCISE
A. E STROGEN  AND SEX DIFFERENCES
Estrogen, the primary sex hormone in women, is well characterized in the regulationof reproduction. Estrogen is also present in lower levels in men and post-menopausalwomen.
92 Estrogens belong to a group of steroid compounds produced by the
enzymatic alteration of androgens, speciﬁcally testosterone produces estradiol.92
Estrogen regulates many physiological functions of the musculoskeletal,93 gas-
trointestinal, immune94, neural,95 and cardiovascular systems.96 In ovulating women,
estradiol is highest in the later follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, speciﬁcallythe week prior to ovulation.
92 Estrogen is known to play a role in glucose homeo-
stasis, however, the exact mechanism is unknown. Studies using ovariectomizedrodents or via the oral administration of 17 β-estradiol to rodents and humans have
shown that estrogen has a major inﬂuence upon carbohydrate metabolism at the7950_C008.fm  Page 219  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

220 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
skeletal muscle and hepatic level.39,97–99 Although several of the earlier studies that
examined the effects of 17 β-estradiol on substrate metabolism used the hormone at
a supra-physiological doses 15,99,100, the same metabolic effects are seen with phys-
iologically relevant doses.10,16 
Initial studies examining the effects of an ovariectomy on muscle metabolism
in female rats resulted in the female rats showing a male-like metabolic pattern with
an increase in glycogen utilization and lower lipid utilization in both skeletal muscleand heart.
16,100 These effects could be reverted back to the normal female-like met-
abolic pattern of increased lipid and lower glycogen utilization by supplementingthe rats with 17 β-estradiol.
16,100 In rodents, the administration of 17 β-estradiol atten-
uated glycogen degradation in the livers of rats during exercise.98,99 Results have
shown when male or ovariectomized female rats are supplemented with 17 β-estrdiol
then exercised, there is a sparing of muscle and liver glycogen, and an increasein free fatty acids,
99 leading to an overall improvement in exercise performance.
17β-estradiol also inﬂuences lipid storage in mice by increasing intramuscular trig-
lyceride content in both heart and skeletal muscle.15 
In humans, women demonstrate lower glycogen utilization rates during endur-
ance exercise.2,7,37 Some studies have found that there does not appear to be a sex
difference in basal muscle glycogen content, and women do not show differencesin glycogen content at either phase of the menstrual cycle.
35,53,62,101  However, during
endurance exercise, women use less muscle glycogen than men,4 and have a signiﬁ-
cantly lower proglycogen, macroglycogen, and total glycogen utilization in the lutealversus follicular phase.
37 Interestingly, administration of 17 β-estradiol in men
reduces the basal level of total muscle glycogen at rest and after exercise.10 Admin-
istration of 17 β-estradiol in both men and women attenuated hepatic glucose
production during endurance exercise.39,97 Tarnopolsky et al. (2001)101 found that
administration of 17 β-estradiol to men increased their plasma 17- β-estradiol con-
centration to mid-follicular levels without effecting muscle glycogen breakdownduring exercise; however, men given 17 β−estradiol had a lower RER, which reﬂected
a reduced reliance upon carbohydrate (CHO) substrate utilization and an increasein lipid metabolism, similar to what was observed in women.
10 Studies have found
that glucose rate of appearance and disappearance1 and glucose metabolic clearance
rate97 were lower for exercising women as compared with men. Interestingly, men
given 17 β-estradiol had lower proglycogen, total glycogen, hepatic glucose produc-
tion, and glucose uptake, suggesting whole-body glycogen sparing.10 These ﬁndings
imply that 17 β-estradiol reduces hepatic glucose production during exercise. At the
skeletal muscle level, estrogen also seems to be acting on lipid metabolism. Inhumans, women show a higher IMCL content and a greater utilization rate duringendurance exercise compared to men.
70 
Mechanistically, Ellis et al. (1994)15 demonstrated that administration of 17 β-
estradiol increased LPL activity in skeletal muscle and decreased it in adipocytes,suggesting that estrogen might play a role in the preferred storage of lipids in theskeletal muscle for immediate availability in oxidation. Recent studies have shownthat women have 160% higher mRNA for LPL than men, but there was no observedsex differences in LPL activity.
22 There are also sex differences in the expression of
lipid binding proteins. Fatty acid translocase (FAT/CD36) protein is approximately7950_C008.fm  Page 220  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 221
50% higher in women compared with men.22 One study has demonstrated that
females have twice the amount of plasma membrane fatty acid transporter (FATP-1)
mRNA compared with males;102 however more research is needed to determine
whether this ﬁnding translates into functional signiﬁcance. There appears to be nosigniﬁcant sex differences in carnitine palmitoyl transferase-1 (CPT-1) or β-3-OH-
acyl-CoA-dehydrogenase activity in humans; however, 17 β-estradiol supplemen-
tation in ovariectomized rats demonstrated an increase in the maximal enzymeactiv ities of carnitine palmitoyl transferase-1 (CPT-1) and β-3-OH-acyl-CoA-dehy-
drogenase.
103 
Estrogen elicits its effects by binding estrogen receptors (ER) α and β, which
are known transcription factors for the regulation of genes. ER  α and ER β mRNA
and protein have been documented in skeletal muscle of humans,104,105 rats,106 and
mice.107 A recent study by Wiik et al. (2005)108 found that ER α and ER β expression
was higher in endurance trained men than in moderately active men. However,
Lemoine et al. (2002)106 found that exercising female rats for 7 weeks increased ER
α mRNA expression, with no signiﬁcant change in males. The change in muscle
ER expression due to training seems to be muscle-type speciﬁc.109 In rats, ER
expression is higher in slow-twitch oxidative muscle than in fast-twitch oxidative-
glycolytic and glycolytic muscle.109 Differences in ER expression in muscle ﬁber
type and increased expression during exercise suggest that ERs are involved inmuscle adaptation to exercise, most likely acting at the level of gene regulation.
Murine studies are helping to lead the way in understanding the mechanism and
other physiological-related outcomes of the effects of estrogen-based sex differences.Estrogen has been shown to modulate insulin sensitivity in women,
110 possibly by
altering insulin-related gene expression.111,112 The overexpression of GLUT4 in a
transgenic murine model resulted in an increase in the percent of glucose disposalthrough glycolysis in male animals and an increase in that directed toward glycogenstorage in female animals.
113 Interestingly, estrogen receptor- α knockout mice
exhibit insulin resistance.114 In a study by Barros et al. (2006)107 estrogen receptor
α was shown to be a positive regulator, and estrogen receptor β a negative regulator,
of GLUT-4 expression. More studies are needed to determine the exact signalingpathway for estrogen-related GLUT-4 expression but estrogen has been shown toregulate IP3 signaling,
115 and IP3 is downstream of PI3K, a signaling molecule that
has been shown to play a role in GLUT-4 translocation to the sarcoplasm.116 
A transgenic peripheral peroxisome activating receptor α knockout (PPAR α–/–)
murine model demonstrated that most of the male PPAR α–/– mice died with severe
hypoglycemia when an inhibitor of CPT activity (etomoxir) was given, yet themajority of female mice survived.
117 Furthermore, males administered 17 β-estradiol
avoided the fatal effects of CPT inhibition.117 This study demonstrates the interre-
latedness of glucose and lipid oxidation and the relationship to 17 β-estradiol. Ova-
riectomized rodent models typically become obese, which can be prevented byadministering 17 β-estradiol.
118 Further investigation into the molecular mechanism
of 17 β-estradiol in ovariectomized mice showed that lipogenic genes were down-
regulated in adipocytes, liver, and skeletal muscle.119 17β-estradiol also upregulated
the expression of PPAR, and activated AMP-activated protein kinase in mice, sug-gesting that estrogen promotes the partitioning of FFAs toward oxidation.
119 7950_C008.fm  Page 221  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

222 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
In summary, 17 β-estradiol appears to be involved in sex-related differences in
the use of glucose/glycogen and lipid oxidation during endurance exercise. The exact
mechanism by which 17 β-estradiol is eliciting these differences is yet to be deter-
mined; however, it might have a molecular role in the regulation of genes or proteininvolved in fatty acid transport and triglyceride hydrolysis (muscle LPL). Although17β-estradiol offers protection from fatal hypoglycemia in a CPT inhibitor transgenic
model of human fatty acid oxidation defects, a signiﬁcant sex difference in the CPTsystem and enzymes involved in β-oxidation is apparent only at the mRNA level in
human studies. Current gene array analysis techniques will hopefully help elucidatethe role of estrogen in metabolic fuel selection. 
B. S EX DIFFERENCES  DUE TO TESTOSTERONE
The primary sex hormone in men is testosterone. Men have approximately 10 timeshigher testosterone concentration than women. Testosterone is a steroid-based hor-mone that promotes secondary sex characteristics in men, including increased musclemass. Testosterone unequivocally has a stimulatory effect on protein synthesis,resulting in an increase in fat-free mass.
120,121  Similarly, gains in strength and muscle
size have been observed with the exogenous administration of testosterone.122
Research has shown that testosterone administration increased the fractional rate ofmixed muscle protein synthesis with no change in fractional protein breakdownrate.
121,123  Furthermore, the protein synthetic stimulation effect was not mediated by
an increase in amino acid transport, but rather was due to an increase in the reuti-lization of intracellular amino acids.
123 Despite these changes in strength and muscle
size, reduction or elevation of testosterone in men does not alter substrate metabo-lism.
124 Braun et al. (2005)124 observed three levels of testosterone in men, low (~0.8
ng/ml), normal (~5.5 ng/ml), and high (~11 ng/ml), and found no signiﬁcant differ-ence in carbohydrate oxidation, glucose Rd, plasma glucose, or plasma FFAs. Inconclusion, testosterone does not appear to be a candidate in the regulation of sex-observed differences in substrate utilization during endurance exercise. 
V. CHANGE IN SUBSTRATE METABOLISM WITH AGING
Aging is accompanied by many physiological changes in metabolism, most of whichare poorly understood due to the confounding factors such as poor habitual diet andinactivity. There is an increase in body fat mass and a reduction in fat free mass dueto a decrease in protein. There is a reduction in muscle and mitochondrial proteinsassociated with decreased gene expression.
125 It is still unknown whether reduced
physical activity is the sole reason for the observed decreases in muscle mass andstrength or whether there is an inevitable effect of age per se . Metabolically, muscle
mass accounts for ~30% of resting energy expenditure and 40–90% of exercise-related energy expenditure;
126 consequently, it is not surprising that there is a cor-
relation between reduced metabolism and a loss of fat free mass in the elderly. Thereare also changes in glucose tolerance, increasing the susceptibility for type 2 dia-betes,
127 suggesting that one of the contributing factors to reduced metabolism could
be insulin signaling or abundance, given that insulin controls the ﬂux of metabolic7950_C008.fm  Page 222  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 223
substrates. Aging can impair insulin secretion or response,128 and the increase in
IMCL content in skeletal muscle from older adults129,130 will also lead to insulin
resistance.131 Interestingly, both endurance and resistance exercise can counteract
some of these effects, suggesting that some of these changes are due to muscular
inactivity’s causing reduced metabolic capabilities. 
A. C ARBOHYDRATE  METABOLISM  WITH AGING
As discussed in section 3 of this chapter, carbohydrates and lipids are the primaryfuel sources during exercise, but vary in percent utilization depending on sex. Inter-estingly, fat and carbohydrate utilization also differ between the young and the elderly.It is well documented that metabolism is lower with aging; however, exercise canalter metabolism in the elderly. During moderate-intensity endurance exercise, meancarbohydrate oxidation was higher in elderly men and women at the same absoluteexercise intensity as compared with young men and women, but signiﬁcantly lowerat similar relative intensities.
132,133  During high-intensity endurance exercise (15%
above ventilatory threshold) in older men, carbohydrate oxidation was signiﬁcantlyhigher; whereas young men increased fat oxidation with no changes in carbohydrateoxidation.
133,134  Interestingly, 16 weeks of moderate endurance exercise training in
elderly men and women decreases the rate of carbohydrate oxidation and loweredglucose Ra.
135 These ﬁndings conﬁrm the differences in carbohydrate oxidation with
aging, and that exercise can alter carbohydrate oxidation differently in young and old. 
Mechanistically, aging has been shown to reduce insulin-mediated glucose dis-
posal even in glucose-tolerant elderly subjects.128 Also, glycogen storage in the liver
is usually higher with aging, which could be due to an increase in insulin resistance;however, glycogen storage is lower in skeletal muscle.
136 Aerobic exercise can aid
in maintaining normal glucose homeostasis and alter insulin sensitivity.137–140 Sim-
ilarly, resistance exercise has been shown to improve whole-body glucose disposalin elderly subjects, but has little effect on insulin sensitivity.
141 Exercise increases
the ability of skeletal muscle from older adults to extract glucose, and exercise incombination with insulin stimulation has an additive effect on whole-body glucoseuptake and clearance.
138 When comparing endurance trained young and elderly
subjects there is still a signiﬁcantly lower insulin sensitivity in the elderly population;however, the difference is signiﬁcantly less than in sedentary elderly subjects com-pared with sedentary young subjects.
134,140 The improvement in insulin sensitivity
seems to be less sustainable in older people, consequently, the long-term beneﬁtsare only observed with regular long-term exercise.
139,142 Rasmussen et al. (2006) 143
demonstrated that in older subjects, skeletal muscle protein synthesis was resistantto insulin supplementation, and this may contribute to sarcopenia. Interestingly,aerobic exercise in older adults increases muscle mitochondrial enzyme activity(citrate synthase, cytochrome c oxidase)
139,144–146 and genes involved in mitochondrial
biogenesis (PGC-1 α, NRF-1, TFAM),139 which could aid in the oxidation of carbo-
hydrates and lipids. 
In summary, aerobic exercise can improve insulin sensitivity and mitochondrial
function in the aging population. Changes in glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivityin elderly populations can also be affected by diet. High dietary carbohydrates7950_C008.fm  Page 223  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

224 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
(63–85% total calories) can improve insulin sensitivity compared to low-carbohydrate
(30% total calories) diets,147–149 although, by caloric displacement, diets that are too
high in carbohydrates can compromise the consumption of adequate amounts of fatsand protein. Although diet alone can improve changes in insulin sensitivity, it seemsmore practical to recommend regular endurance or resistance exercise to counteractchanges in muscle metabolism, such as mitochondrial function. It has been demon-strated that a high-carbohydrate diet (63% total calories) in combination with aerobicexercise training is likely the best prescription for elderly patients, as the two incombination improve insulin sensitivity and promote healthy weight loss.
149 
B. L IPID METABOLISM
Aging increases fat mass in humans and the distribution of stored fats is differentfor men and women as they age. Speciﬁcally, women have a higher percent subcu-taneous and intrahepatocelluar lipid compartments and lower visceral adipose tissuecompared with men.
136,150 Interestingly, there are no signiﬁcant differences in IMCL
content between men and women as they age;136 however, the total amount increases
with age,150 which may impair insulin signaling, as there is a signiﬁcant correlation
between increased IMCL content and insulin resistance.151,152  Studies correlating
basal fat oxidation to fat mass showed no correlation; however there was a positivecorrelation with fat-free mass.
153 Plasma FFA concentrations are the simplest
approach to study the turnover of fats, as they indirectly represent lipolysis, de-novosynthesis, and oxidation; however, FFA levels in the elderly have been shown toincrease, decrease, and remain the same.
154–156  Results likely vary based on insulin,
as insulin effects FFA concentrations.154 
Aerobic exercise studies examining fat metabolism in young versus elderly have
demonstrated that elderly men and women have a lower mean fat oxidation rate atthe same absolute or relative exercise intensity as young men and women.
132 FFA
Ra is signiﬁcantly lower (~35%) in elderly men and women at relative exerciseintensities similar to young men and women.
132 Sixteen weeks of moderate endur-
ance exercise training in elderly men and women increases the rate of fat oxidation,but does not signiﬁcantly change glycerol Ra, FFA Ra, or FFA Rd.
135 These results
suggest that exercise training in elderly men and women increases fat oxidationthrough alterations in skeletal muscle fatty acid metabolism.
135 
The mechanisms contributing to alterations in fat accumulation and distribution
are under investigation. As discussed above, the mechanisms in fat oxidation are likelysimilar to that of carbohydrate and involve changes in gene regulation of transportersand mitochondrial function. Again, aerobic exercise in the elderly increases musclemitochondrial enzyme activity of citrate synthase and cytochrome c oxidase,
139,144–146
and genes involved in mitochondrial biogenesis like PGC-1 α, NRF-1 and TFAM,139
which are involved in the ﬁnal pathway of the oxidation of lipids.
C. P ROTEIN  METABOLISM
Aging is associated with sarcopenia and whether it is due to a slow process of muscleprotein catabolism or other factors such as a reduced ability to process and buildmuscle requires further investigation. Approximately 50% of the proteins in the7950_C008.fm  Page 224  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 225
human body are located in the skeletal muscle, which constitutes approximately 15%
of an adult’s body weight.157 With aging, muscle size decreases, as does strength and
muscle quality (the force per unit area). These changes can be attenuated to varyingdegrees with endurance exercise, resistance exercise, or protein supplementation.
Whole-body protein turnover is signiﬁcantly lower in older adults.
139,158,159 Sev-
eral studies have shown a lower fractional synthetic rate of mixed muscle proteinin older as compared with younger men and women.
144,158,160–162 Short et al. (2004)144
demonstrated that, at the whole-body level, protein breakdown, protein synthesis,and leucine oxidation declined at a rate of ~4–5% per decade, irrespective of sex.The rate of myoﬁbrillar protein synthesis and MHC are also reduced in older ascompared with younger adults.
163 These reduction are associated with a reduction
in functional strength.158 Furthermore, mitochondrial protein synthesis is also
reduced in older as compared with younger adults.164 The mechanism(s) behind the
reduction in protein is associated with a lower abundance of mRNA species involved
in electron transport chain and myoﬁbrillar gene expression.125,165  
These changes can be alleviated by an acute bout of resistance exercise, leading
to the stimulation of myoﬁbrillar proteins and mixed muscle protein synthesis rates
11,144,166–168 , most likely mediated by translational or post-translational mecha-
nisms.168,169  The beneﬁts of resistance exercise are further supported by studies that
have found no difference in protein breakdown between younger and older
adults.160,167  Similarly, 4 months of aerobic exercise can increase mixed muscle
protein synthesis, but does not seem to alter whole body protein turnover.144 
From a nutritional standpoint, traditional nutritional supplements per se have
been ineffective at improving muscle mass in the elderly;170 however, ingestion or
infusion of essential amino acids does stimulate muscle protein synthesis in theelderly,
171,172 although the extent of stimulation of protein synthesis by amino acids
is lower in older adults.172 A combination of protein or essential amino acids and
exercise training further enhances muscle protein synthesis in older adults173 and
improves muscle strength by more than 125%.174 In younger adults, the consumption
of proteins, essential amino acids, with and without carbohydrate in the immediatepostexercise period increases the rate of muscle protein synthesis and improves netbalance.
175 A recent study found that protein synthesis rates between young and old
were similar following activity of daily living exercise with the ingestion of leucineand protein.
176 From a practical perspective, one study found that the consumption
of a protein/carbohydrate and fat snack immediately following acute exerciseresulted in an enhancement of the muscle mass gains following a period of resistanceexercise training.
177 Finally, it does not appear that the source of protein is important
in the enhancement of strength and muscle mass gains following resistance exercise,for a meat-based diet and a lacto-ovo vegetarian diet were comparable.
178
In general, the mechanism behind muscle protein loss and aging needs further
investigation. There could be a genetic component as there is a decrease in theexpression of skeletal muscle mRNA encoding for proteins involved in proteinturnover and energy metabolism in aged compared with young humans and animals.These age-related changes can be reduced by exercise in combination with proteinsupplementation. The timing of protein administration appears to be important, withstrength gains being enhanced if the nutrition is consumed shortly after exercise. 7950_C008.fm  Page 225  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

226 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
D. B ENEFITS  OF EXERCISE  AND HORMONE  REPLACEMENT  THERAPY  
IN THE ELDERLY
Aging is associated with changes in body composition such as increase in body fat
mass, decrease in protein mass, and decrease in contractile and mitochondrial-relatedproteins.
126 Research has attempted to determine if age-associated changes in muscle
function are a cause or effect of aging. Evidence is accumulating to suggest thatprogressive resistance exercise is a useful non-pharmacological treatment for age-related losses in muscle mass, quality, and function. Long-term habitual exercisecan result in similar dynamic strength, maximum voluntary isometric strength, cross-sectional area, speciﬁc tension, power, and proportion of myosin heavy chain iso-forms in older men compared with young men.
126,179 Mitochondrial function has
been reported to decline with age; however, Brierly et al. (1996)180 demonstrated
that oxidative metabolism was poorly correlated with chronological age and stronglycorrelated with markers of physical activity, and subsequently found that mitochon-drial respiratory chain function was not signiﬁcantly different between young andelderly athletes.
181 Exercise alone increases aerobic capacity, muscle protein synthe-
sis, and mitochondrial enzyme activity in older men and women.144 This data sug-
gests that an active lifestyle is able to preserve muscle function during aging tolevels similar to those of sedentary young adults. 
There are speciﬁc sex differences in the process of aging. In men, the process
of aging is usually gradual and levels of testosterone slowly decrease such that halfof men aged 50–70 years are hypogonadal.
158 In men, both acute and chronic
resistance exercise alone increases free testosterone, although the effect is attenuatedin younger compared with older men.
182,183 Testosterone replacement in elderly men
to levels similar to that of young males increased muscle size and strength.13 A recent
study examining the combined effects of testosterone and exercise in untrained frailelderly men concluded there was no synergistic effects of the combination.
184 These
ﬁndings are similar to a study that compared hypogonadal men with HIV-relatedmuscle wasting and found that both resistance exercise and testosterone administra-tion and the combination of both resulted in similar increases in muscle strengthand mass.
122 This is contrary to the interactive effects of testosterone and exercise
in young healthy males where fat-free mass, muscle size and strength were greaterin the testosterone plus resistance exercise group as compared with a non-exercisinggroup receiving testosterone.
120 These studies suggest that there are age-related
differences in the response to hormonal intervention in men. 
Women undergo menopause at approximately 50 years of age. Menopause is
the cessation of menses and reduction of estrogen production. It is associated withincreased adiposity and greater risk of metabolic disease.
185–187 Estrogen supplemen-
tation in menopausal and postmenopausal women can attenuate gains in adiposetissue, improve insulin sensitivity, and reduce the likeliness to develop type 2 dia-betes.
188–190 Furthermore, estrogen replacement therapy in post-menopausal women
can counteract the decline in muscle mass.17 Although estrogen replacement therapy
for postmenopausal females might have a synergistic effect in combination withresistance training, current research suggests there is no signiﬁcant effect of thecombination in comparison with exercise alone.
191 There is also a growing interest7950_C008.fm  Page 226  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 227
in testosterone therapy in postmenopausal women as women experience a 28%
decrease in testosterone as they age,192 and the anabolic effects of testosterone,
particularly in combination with exercise could improve overall health and longevityof women as they age.
Currently, the interactive effect between hormone replacement therapy and resis-
tance exercise is only beginning to be explored. In terms of muscle mass and strengthgains, testosterone has a potent anabolic effect, whereas estrogen has a mild anaboliceffects in younger adults however in elderly people the beneﬁts of hormone replace-ment therapy with (and even without) resistance exercise need further investigation.These results suggest that, over a lifetime, regular exercise alone may have the bestprotective effect on muscle strength, function, and oxidative capacity. 
VI. SUMMARY
There are sex differences in metabolic fuel selection during endurance exercise.
Speciﬁcally, females oxidize more lipids and less carbohydrate than men. Themechanism behind these ﬁndings is ultimately differences in gene regulation, butthe mechanism by which this genetic regulation is occurring needs further investi-gation, although the sex hormone estrogen is a potential candidate. The implicationsof sex differences on nutritional recommendations need further investigation butremain a promising area, especially for athletes. 
There are also differences in substrate metabolism with aging, and whether sex-
related differences are maintained remains to be determined; however, menopauseplays an important role in changes in substrate metabolism in women. Evidence isoverwhelming that the best way to counteract the effects of sarcopenia is withexercise, although protein or amino acid supplementation either alone or in combi-nation with exercise also seems to be beneﬁcial for the elderly. Research into thegenetic regulation of substrate pathway differences is in its infancy but will ultimatelyunfold the conundrum of sex and age-related differences in metabolism. 
REFERENCES
1. Friedlander, A.L., Casazza, G.A., Horning, M.A., Huie, M.J., Piacentini, M.F., Trim-
mer, J.K., Brooks, G.A. Training-induced alterations of carbohydrate metabolism in
women: Women respond differently from men. J. Appl. Physiol. 85, 1175–1186, 1998.
2. Carter, S.L., Rennie, C., Tarnopolsky, M.A. Substrate utilization during endurance
exercise in men and women after endurance training. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol.
Metab. 280, E898–907, 2001.
3. Phillips, S.M., Atkinson, S.A., Tarnopolsky, M.A., MacDougall, J.D. Gender differ-
ences in leucine kinetics and nitrogen balance in endurance athletes. J.App. Physiol.
75, 2134–2141, 1993.
4. Tarnopolsky, L.J., MacDougall, J.D., Atkinson, S.A., Tarnopolsky, M.A., Sutton, J.R.
Gender differences in substrate for endurance exercise. J.Appl. Physiol. 68, 302–308,
1990.
5. Tarnopolsky, M.A., Atkinson, S.A., Phillips, S.M., MacDougall, J.D. Carbohydrate
loading and metabolism during exercise in men and women. J. Appl. Physiol. 78,
1360–1368, 1995.7950_C008.fm  Page 227  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

228 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
6. Horton, T.J., Pagliassotti, M.J., Hobbs, K., Hill, J.O. Fuel metabolism in men and
women during and after long-duration exercise. J. Appl. Physiol. 85, 1823–1832, 1998.
7. Ruby, B.C., Coggan, A.R., Zderic, T.W. Gender differences in glucose kinetics and
substrate oxidation during exercise near the lactate threshold. J. Appl. Physiol. 92,
1125–1132, 2002.
8. Davis, S.N., Galassetti, P., Wasserman, D.H., Tate, D. Effects of gender on neuroen-
docrine and metabolic counterregulatory responses to exercise in normal man. J. Clin.
Endocrinol. Metab. 85, 224–230, 2000.
9. Lamont, L.S., McCullough, A.J., Kalhan, S.C. Gender differences in leucine, but not
lysine, kinetics. J. Appl. Physiol. 91, 357–362, 2001.
10. Devries, M.C., Hamadeh, M.J., Graham, T.E., Tarnopolsky, M.A. 17 β-estradiol sup-
plementation decreases glucose rate of appearance and disappearance with no effect
on glycogen utilization during moderate intensity exercise in men. J. Clin. Endocrinol.
Metab. 90, 6218–6225, 2005.
11. Yarasheski, K.E., Pak-Loduca, J., Hasten, D.L., Obert, K.A., Brown, M.B., Sinacore,
D.R. Resistance exercise training increases mixed muscle protein synthesis rate infrail women and men ≥ = 76 yr old. Am. J. Physiol. 277, E118–125, 1999.
12. Tarnopolsky, M.A., Parise, G., Yardley, N.J., Ballantyne, C.S., Olatinji, S., Phillips,
S.M. Creatine-dextrose and protein-dextrose induce similar strength gains duringtraining. Med. Sci. Sports. Exerc. 33, 2044–2052, 2001.
13. Ferrando, A.A., Shefﬁeld–Moore, M., Yeckel, C.W., Gilkison, C., Jiang, J., Achacosa,
A., Lieberman, S.A., Tipton, K., Wolfe, R.R., Urban, R.J. Testosterone administrationto older men improves muscle function: Molecular and physiological mechanisms.Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 282, E601–607, 2002.
14. Wolfe, R., Ferrando, A., Shefﬁeld-Moore, M., Urban, R. Testosterone and muscle
protein metabolism. Mayo. Clin. Proc. 75 Suppl, S55–59; discussion S59–60, 2000.
15. Ellis, G.S., Lanza-Jacoby, S., Gow, A., Kendrick, Z.V . Effects of estradiol on lipo-
protein lipase activity and lipid availability in exercised male rats. J. Appl. Physiol.
77, 209–215, 1994.
16. Kendrick, Z.V ., Steffen, C.A., Rumsey, W.L., Goldberg, D.I. Effect of estradiol on
tissue glycogen metabolism in exercised oophorectomized rats. J. Appl. Physiol. 63,
492–496, 1987.
17. Dionne, I.J., Kinaman, K.A., Poehlman, E.T. Sarcopenia and muscle function during
menopause and hormone-replacement therapy. J. Nutr. Health. Aging. 4, 156–161,
2000.
18. Miller, A.E., MacDougall, J.D., Tarnopolsky, M.A., Sale, D.G. Gender differences in
strength and muscle ﬁber characteristics. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. 66,
254–262, 1993.
19. Carter, S.L., Rennie, C.D., Hamilton, S.J., Tarnopolsky, M.A. Changes in skeletal
muscle in males and females following endurance training. Can. J. Physiol. Phar-
macol. 79, 386–392, 2001.
20. Fox, J., Garber, P., Hoffman, M., Johnson, D., Schaefer, P., Vien, J., Zeaton, C.,
Thompson, L.V . Morphological characteristics of skeletal muscles in relation togender. Aging Clin. Exp. Res. 15, 264–269, 2003.
21. Vistisen, B., Roepstorff, K., Roepstorff, C., Bonen, A., van Deurs, B., Kiens, B.
Sarcolemmal FAT/CD36 in human skeletal muscle colocalizes with caveolin-3 andis more abundant in type 1 than in type 2 ﬁbers. J. Lipid Res. 45, 603–609, 2004.
22. Kiens, B., Roepstorff, C., Glatz, J.F., Bonen, A., Schjerling, P., Knudsen, J., Nielsen,
J.N. Lipid binding proteins and lipoprotein lipase activity in human skeletal muscle:Inﬂuence of physical activity and gender. J. Appl. Physiol. 2004.7950_C008.fm  Page 228  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 229
23. Lexell, J., Henriksson-Larsen, K., Winblad, B., Sjostrom, M. Distribution of different
ﬁber types in human skeletal muscles: Effects of aging studied in whole muscle cross
sections. Muscle Nerve. 6, 588–595, 1983.
24. Coggan, A.R., Spina, R.J., King, D.S., Rogers, M.A., Brown, M., Nemeth, P.M.,
Holloszy, J.O. Histochemical and enzymatic comparison of the gastrocnemius muscleof young and elderly men and women. J. Gerontol. 47, B71–76, 1992.
25. Klitgaard, H., Mantoni, M., Schiafﬁno, S., Ausoni, S., Gorza, L., Laurent-Winter,
C., Schnohr, P ., Saltin, B. Function, morphology and protein expression of ageing
skeletal muscle: A cross-sectional study of elderly men with different training back-grounds. Acta. Physiol. Scand. 140, 41–54, 1990.
26. Cupido, C.M., Hicks, A.L., Martin, J. Neuromuscular fatigue during repetitive stim-
ulation in elderly and young adults. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. 65,
567–572, 1992.
27. Frontera, W.R., Suh, D., Krivickas, L.S., Hughes, V .A., Goldstein, R., Roubenoff, R.
Skeletal muscle ﬁber quality in older men and women. Am. J. Physiol. Cell Physiol.
279, C611–618, 2000.
28. Lamont, L.S. Gender differences in amino acid use during endurance exercise. Nutr.
Rev. 63, 419–422, 2005.
29. Tarnopolsky, M.A. Gender differences in substrate metabolism during endurance
exercise. Can. J. Appl. Physiol. 25, 312–327, 2000.
30. Tarnopolsky, M.A., Saris, W.H. Evaluation of gender differences in physiology: an
introduction. Curr. Opin. Clin. Nutr. Metab. Care. 4, 489–492, 2001.
31. Nicklas, B.J., Hackney, A.C., Sharp, R.L. The menstrual cycle and exercise: perfor-
mance, muscle glycogen, and substrate responses. Int. J. Sports Med. 10, 264–269,
1989.
32. Campbell, S.E., Angus, D.J., Febbraio, M.A. Glucose kinetics and exercise perfor-
mance during phases of the menstrual cycle: Effect of glucose ingestion. Am. J.
Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 281, E817–825, 2001.
33. Pritzlaff-Roy, C.J., Widemen, L., Weltman, J.Y ., Abbott, R., Gutgesell, M., Hartman,
M.L., Veldhuis, J.D., Weltman, A. Gender governs the relationship between exerciseintensity and growth hormone release in young adults. J. Appl. Physiol. 92,
2053–2060, 2002.
34. Zello, G.A. Dietary Reference Intakes for the macronutrients and energy: Consider-
ations for physical activity. Appl. Physiol. Nutr. Metab. 31, 74–79, 2006.
35. McKenzie, S., Phillips, S.M., Carter, S.L., Lowther, S., Gibala, M.J., Tarnopolsky,
M.A. Endurance exercise training attenuates leucine oxidation and BCOAD activationduring exercise in humans. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 278, E580–587, 2000.
36. Horton, T.J., Grunwald, G.K., Lavely, J., Donahoo, W.T. Glucose kinetics differ
between women and men, during and after exercise. J. Appl. Physiol. 100, 1883–1894,
2006.
37. Devries, M.C., Hamadeh, M.J., Phillips, S.M., Tarnopolsky, M.A. Menstrual Cycle
Phase and Sex Inﬂuence Muscle Glycogen Utilization and Glucose Turnover DuringModerate Intensity Endurance Exercise. Am. J. Physiol. Regul. Integr. Comp. Physiol.
2006.
38. Roepstorff, C., Steffensen, C.H., Madsen, M., Stallknecht, B., Kanstrup, I.L., Richter,
E.A., Kiens, B. Gender differences in substrate utilization during submaximal exercisein endurance-trained subjects. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 282, E435–447, 2002.
39. Ruby, B.C., Robergs, R.A., Waters, D.L., Burge, M., Mermier, C., Stolarczyk, L.
Effects of estradiol on substrate turnover during exercise in amenorrheic females.Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. 29, 1160–1169, 1997.7950_C008.fm  Page 229  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

230 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
40. Brooks, S., Nevill, M.E., Meleagros, L., Lakomy, H.K., Hall, G.M., Bloom, S.R.,
Williams, C. The hormonal responses to repetitive brief maximal exercise in humans.
Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. 60, 144–148, 1990.
41. Jensen, M.D., Cryer, P.E., Johnson, C.M., Murray, M.J. Effects of epinephrine on
regional free fatty acid and energy metabolism in men and women. Am. J. Physiol.
270, E259–264, 1996.
42. Monjo, M., Rodriguez, A.M., Palou, A., Roca, P. Direct effects of testosterone, 17
beta–estradiol, and progesterone on adrenergic regulation in cultured brown adipo-cytes: potential mechanism for gender-dependent thermogenesis. Endocrinology. 144,
4923–4930, 2003.
43. Ramis, J.M., Salinas, R., Garcia-Sanz, J.M., Moreiro, J., Proenza, A.M., Llado, I.
Depot- and gender-related differences in the lipolytic pathway of adipose tissue from
severely obese patients. Cell Physiol. Biochem. 17, 173–180, 2006.
44. Zderic, T.W., Coggan, A.R., Ruby, B.C. Glucose kinetics and substrate oxidation
during exercise in the follicular and luteal phases. J. Appl. Physiol. 90, 447–453, 2001.
45. Bergstrom, J., Hermansen, L., Hultman, E., Saltin, B. Diet, muscle glycogen and
physical performance. Acta. Physiol. Scand. 71, 140–150, 1967.
46. Costill, D.L., Sherman, W.M., Fink, W.J., Maresh, C., Witten, M., Miller, J.M. The
role of dietary carbohydrates in muscle glycogen resynthesis after strenuous running.Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 34, 1831–1836, 1981.
47. Hultman, E. Studies on muscle metabolism of glycogen and active phosphate in man with
special reference to exercise and diet. Scand. J. Clin. Lab. Invest. Suppl. 94, 1–63, 1967.
48. Bergstrom, J., Hultman, E. A study of the glycogen metabolism during exercise in
man. Scand. J. Clin. Lab. Invest. 19, 218–228, 1967.
49. Walker, J.L., Heigenhauser, G.J., Hultman, E., Spriet, L.L. Dietary carbohydrate,
muscle glycogen content, and endurance performance in well-trained women. J. Appl.
Physiol. 88, 2151–2158, 2000.
50. Sherman, W.M., Costill, D.L., Fink, W.J., Miller, J.M. Effect of exercise-diet manip-
ulation on muscle glycogen and its subsequent utilization during performance. Int.
J. Sports Med. 2, 114–118, 1981.
51. Karlsson, J., Saltin, B. Diet, muscle glycogen, and endurance performance. J. Appl.
Physiol. 31, 203–206, 1971.
52. Tarnopolsky, M.A., Zawada, C., Richmond, L.B., Carter, S., Shearer, J., Graham, T.,
Phillips, S.M. Gender differences in carbohydrate loading are related to energy intake.J. Appl. Physiol. 91, 225–230, 2001.
53. James, A.P., Lorraine, M., Cullen, D., Goodman, C., Dawson, B., Palmer, T.N.,
Fournier, P.A. Muscle glycogen supercompensation: Absence of a gender-relateddifference. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. 85, 533–538, 2001.
54. Febbraio, M.A., Chiu, A., Angus, D.J., Arkinstall, M.J., Hawley, J.A. Effects of
carbohydrate ingestion before and during exercise on glucose kinetics and perfor-mance. J. Appl. Physiol. 89, 2220–2226, 2000.
55. Coggan, A.R., Swanson, S.C. Nutritional manipulations before and during endurance
exercise: effects on performance. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. 24, S331–335, 1992.
56. Coggan, A.R., Coyle, E.F. Metabolism and performance following carbohydrate
ingestion late in exercise. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. 21, 59–65, 1989.
57. Coggan, A.R., Coyle, E.F. Carbohydrate ingestion during prolonged exercise: effects
on metabolism and performance. Exerc. Sport Sci. Rev. 19, 1–40, 1991.
58. Burelle, Y ., Peronnet, F., Charpentier, S., Lavoie, C., Hillaire-Marcel, C., Massicotte,
D. Oxidation of an oral [13C]glucose load at rest and prolonged exercise in trainedand sedentary subjects. J. Appl. Physiol. 86, 52–60, 1999.7950_C008.fm  Page 230  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 231
59. Bailey, S.P., Zacher, C.M., Mittleman, K.D. Effect of menstrual cycle phase on
carbohydrate supplementation during prolonged exercise to fatigue. J. Appl. Physiol.
88, 690–697, 2000.
60. Riddell, M.C., Partington, S.L., Stupka, N., Armstrong, D., Rennie, C., Tarnopolsky,
M.A. Substrate utilization during exercise performed with and without glucose inges-
tion in female and male endurance trained athletes. Int. J. Sport Nutr. Exerc. Metab.
13, 407–421, 2003.
61. Wallis, G.A., Dawson, R., Achten, J., Webber, J., Jeukendrup, A.E. Metabolic
response to carbohydrate ingestion during exercise in males and females. Am. J.
Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 290, E708–715, 2006.
62. Tarnopolsky, M.A., Bosman, M., Macdonald, J.R., Vandeputte, D., Martin, J., Roy,
B.D. Postexercise protein-carbohydrate and carbohydrate supplements increase mus-cle glycogen in men and women. J. Appl. Physiol. 83, 1877–1883, 1997.
63. Roy, B.D., Luttmer, K., Bosman, M.J., Tarnopolsky, M.A. The inﬂuence ofpostexer-
cise macronutrient intake on energy balance and protein metabolism in active femalesparticipating in endurance training. Int. J. Sport Nutr. Exerc. Metab. 12, 172–188,
2002.
64. Stanley, W.C., Connett, R.J. Regulation of muscle carbohydrate metabolism during
exercise. FASEB J. 5, 2155–2159, 1991.
65. Powers, S.K., Howley, E.T., Exercise Physiology , 3rd edition, McGraw-Hill, Boston,
Massachusetts, 1996.
66. Morgan, T.E., Short, F.A., Cobb, L.A. Effect of long-term exercise on skeletal muscle
lipid composition. Am. J. Physiol. 216, 82–86, 1969.
67. Hoppeler, H. Exercise-induced ultrastructural changes in skeletal muscle. Int. J.
Sports Med. 7, 187–204, 1986.
68. Hwang, J.H., Pan, J.W., Heydari, S., Hetherington, H.P., Stein, D.T. Regional differ-
ences in intramyocellular lipids in humans observed by in vivo  1H-MR spectroscopic
imaging. J. Appl. Physiol. 90, 1267–1274, 2001.
69. Staron, R.S., Hikida, R.S., Murray, T.F., Hagerman, F.C., Hagerman, M.T. Lipid
depletion and repletion in skeletal muscle following a marathon. J. Neurol. Sci. 94,
29–40, 1989.
70. Steffensen, C.H., Roepstorff, C., Madsen, M., Kiens, B. Myocellular triacylglycerol
breakdown in females but not in males during exercise. Am.J. Physiol. Endocrinol.
Metab. 282, E634–642, 2002.
71. Goodpaster, B.H., He, J., Watkins, S., Kelley, D.E. Skeletal muscle lipid content and
insulin resistance: Evidence for a paradox in endurance-trained athletes. J. Clin.
Endocrinol. Metab. 86, 5755–5761, 2001.
72. Zderic, T.W., Davidson, C.J., Schenk, S., Byerley, L.O., Coyle, E.F. High-fat diet
elevates resting intramuscular triglyceride concentration and whole body lipolysisduring exercise. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 286, E217–225, 2004.
73. Mittendorfer, B., Horowitz, J.F., Klein, S. Effect of gender on lipid kinetics during
endurance exercise of moderate intensity in untrained subjects. Am. J. Physiol. Endo-
crinol. Metab. 283, E58–65, 2002.
74. Larson-Meyer, D.E., Newcomer, B.R., Hunter, G.R. Inﬂuence of endurance running
and recovery diet on intramyocellular lipid content in women: A 1H NMR study. Am.
J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 282, E95–E106, 2002.
75. van Loon, L.J., Schrauwen-Hinderling, V .B., Koopman, R., Wagenmakers, A.J., Hes-
selink, M.K., Schaart, G., Kooi, M.E., Saris, W.H. Inﬂuence of prolonged endurancecycling and recovery diet on intramuscular triglyceride content in trained males. Am.
J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 285, E804–811, 2003.7950_C008.fm  Page 231  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

232 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
76. Starling, R.D., Trappe, T.A., Parcell, A.C., Kerr, C.G., Fink, W.J., Costill, D.L. Effects
of diet on muscle triglyceride and endurance performance. J. Appl. Physiol. 82,
1185–1189, 1997.
77. Lambert, E.V ., Speechly, D.P., Dennis, S.C., Noakes, T.D. Enhanced endurance in
trained cyclists during moderate intensity exercise following two weeks adaptation
to a high fat diet. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. 69, 287–293, 1994.
78. Rowlands, D.S., Hopkins, W.G. Effects of high-fat and high-carbohydrate diets on
metabolism and performance in cycling. Metabolism. 51, 678–690, 2002.
79. Phinney, S.D., Bistrian, B.R., Evans, W.J., Gervino, E., Blackburn, G.L. The human
metabolic response to chronic ketosis without caloric restriction: Preservation ofsubmaximal exercise capability with reduced carbohydrate oxidation. Metabolism.
32, 769–776, 1983.
80. Goedecke, J.H., Christie, C., Wilson, G., Dennis, S.C., Noakes, T.D., Hopkins, W.G.,
Lambert, E.V . Metabolic adaptations to a high-fat diet in endurance cyclists. Metab-
olism. 48, 1509–1517, 1999.
81. MacLean, D.A., Spriet, L.L., Hultman, E., Graham, T.E. Plasma and muscle amino
acid and ammonia responses during prolonged exercise in humans. J. Appl. Physiol.
70, 2095–2103, 1991.
82. Lamont, L.S., McCullough, A.J., Kalhan, S.C. Gender differences in the regulation
of amino acid metabolism. J. Appl. Physiol. 95, 1259–1265, 2003.
83. Kobayashi, R., Shimomura, Y ., Murakami, T., Nakai, N., Fujitsuka, N., Otsuka, M.,
Arakawa, N., Popov, K.M., Harris, R.A. Gender difference in regulation of branched-chain amino acid catabolism. Biochem. J. 327 (2), 449–453, 1997.
84. Lariviere, F., Moussalli, R., Garrel, D.R. Increased leucine ﬂux and leucine oxidation
during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle in women. Am. J. Physiol. 267,
E422–428, 1994.
85. Lamont, L.S., Lemon, P.W., Bruot, B.C. Menstrual cycle and exercise effects on
protein catabolism. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. 19, 106–110, 1987.
86. Gaine, P.C., Pikosky, M.A., Martin, W.F., Bolster, D.R., Maresh, C.M., Rodriguez,
N.R. Level of dietary protein impacts whole body protein turnover in trained malesat rest. Metabolism. 55, 501–507, 2006.
87. Lamont, L.S., McCullough, A.J., Kalhan, S.C. Beta-adrenergic blockade heightens
the exercise-induced increase in leucine oxidation. Am. J. Physiol. 268, E910–916,
1995.
88. Friedman, J.E., Lemon, P.W. Effect of chronic endurance exercise on retention of
dietary protein. Int. J. Sports Med. 10, 118–123, 1989.
89. Meredith, C.N., Zackin, M.J., Frontera, W.R., Evans, W.J. Dietary protein require-
ments and body protein metabolism in endurance-trained men. J. Appl. Physiol. 66,
2850–2856, 1989.
90. Lemon, P.W., Dolny, D.G., Yarasheski, K.E. Moderate physical activity can increase
dietary protein needs. Can. J. Appl. Physiol. 22, 494–503, 1997.
91. Tarnopolsky, M. Protein requirements for endurance athletes. Nutrition. 20, 662–668,
2004.
92. Simpson, E.R. Sources of estrogen and their importance. J. Steroid Biochem. Mol.
Biol. 86, 225–230, 2003.
93. Srivastava, S., Toraldo, G., Weitzmann, M.N., Cenci, S., Ross, F.P., Paciﬁci, R. Estro-
gen decreases osteoclast formation by down-regulating receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand (RANKL)-induced JNK activation. J. Biol. Chem. 276, 8836–8840, 2001.
94. Wilder, R.L. Hormones, pregnancy, and autoimmune diseases. Ann.N. Y. Acad. Sci.
840, 45–50, 1998.7950_C008.fm  Page 232  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 233
95. McEwen, B.S., Alves, S.E. Estrogen actions in the central nervous system. Endocr.
Rev. 20, 279–307, 1999.
96. Mendelsohn, M.E., Karas, R.H. The protective effects of estrogen on the cardiovas-
cular system. N. Engl. J. Med. 340, 1801–1811, 1999.
97. Carter, S., McKenzie, S., Mourtzakis, M., Mahoney, D.J., Tarnopolsky, M.A. Short-
term 17 β-estradiol decreases glucose R(a) but not whole body metabolism during
endurance exercise. J. Appl. Physiol. 90, 139–146, 2001.
98. Rooney, T.P., Kendrick, Z.V ., Carlson, J., Ellis, G.S., Matakevich, B., Lorusso, S.M.,
McCall, J.A. Effect of estradiol on the temporal pattern of exercise-induced tissue
glycogen depletion in male rats. J. Appl. Physiol. 75, 1502–1506, 1993.
99. Kendrick, Z.V ., Ellis, G.S. Effect of estradiol on tissue glycogen metabolism and
lipid availability in exercised male rats. J. Appl. Physiol. 71, 1694–1699, 1991.
100. Hatta, H., Atomi, Y ., Shinohara, S., Yamamoto, Y ., Yamada, S. The effects of ovarian
hormones on glucose and fatty acid oxidation during exercise in female ovariecto-mized rats. Horm. Metab. Res. 20, 609–611, 1988.
101. Tarnopolsky, M.A., Roy, B.D., MacDonald, J.R., McKenzie, S., Martin, J., Ettinger,
S. Short-term 17- β-estradiol administration does not affect metabolism in young
males. Int. J. Sports Med. 22, 175–180, 2001.
102. Binnert, C., Koistinen, H.A., Martin, G., Andreelli, F., Ebeling, P., Koivisto, V .A.,
Laville, M., Auwerx, J., Vidal, H. Fatty acid transport protein-1 mRNA expressionin skeletal muscle and in adipose tissue in humans. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab.
279, E1072–1079, 2000.
103. Campbell, S.E., Febbraio, M.A. Effect of ovarian hormones on mitochondrial enzyme
activity in the fat oxidation pathway of skeletal muscle. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol.
Metab. 281, E803–808, 2001.
104. Wiik, A., Glenmark, B., Ekman, M., Esbjornsson-Liljedahl, M., Johansson, O., Bodin,
K., Enmark, E., Jansson, E. Oestrogen receptor beta is expressed in adult humanskeletal muscle both at the mRNA and protein level. Acta. Physiol. Scand. 179,
381–387, 2003.
105. Lemoine, S., Granier, P., Tiffoche, C., Rannou-Bekono, F., Thieulant, M.L., Delama-
rche, P. Estrogen receptor alpha mRNA in human skeletal muscles. Med. Sci. Sports
Exerc. 35, 439–443, 2003.
106. Lemoine, S., Granier, P., Tiffoche, C., Berthon, P.M., Rannou-Bekono, F., Thieu-
lant, M.L., Carre, F., Delamarche, P. Effect of endurance training on oestrogenreceptor alpha transcripts in rat skeletal muscle. Acta. Physiol. Scand. 174,
283–289, 2002.
107. Barros, R.P., Machado, U.F., Warner, M., Gustafsson, J.A. Muscle GLUT4 regulation
by estrogen receptors ERbeta and ERalpha. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 103,
1605–1608, 2006.
108. Wiik, A., Gustafsson, T., Esbjornsson, M., Johansson, O., Ekman, M., Sundberg, C.J.,
Jansson, E. Expression of oestrogen receptor alpha and beta is higher in skeletalmuscle of highly endurance-trained than of moderately active men. Acta. Physiol.
Scand. 184, 105–112, 2005.
109. Lemoine, S., Granier, P., Tiffoche, C., Berthon, P.M., Thieulant, M.L., Carre, F.,
Delamarche, P. Effect of endurance training on oestrogen receptor alpha expressionin different rat skeletal muscle type. Acta. Physiol. Scand. 175, 211–217, 2002.
110. Godsland, I.F. Oestrogens and insulin secretion. Diabetologia. 48, 2213–2220, 2005.
111. Morimoto, S., Cerbon, M.A., Alvarez-Alvarez, A., Romero-Navarro, G., Diaz-
Sanchez, V . Insulin gene expression pattern in rat pancreas during the estrous cycle.Life Sci. 68, 2979–2985, 2001.7950_C008.fm  Page 233  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

234 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
112. von Wolff, M., Ursel, S., Hahn, U., Steldinger, R., Strowitzki, T. Glucose transporter
proteins (GLUT) in human endometrium: Expression, regulation, and function
throughout the menstrual cycle and in early pregnancy. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab.
88, 3885–3892, 2003.
113. Tsao, T.S., Li, J., Chang, K.S., Stenbit, A.E., Galuska, D., Anderson, J.E., Zierath,
J.R., McCarter, R.J., Charron, M.J. Metabolic adaptations in skeletal muscle overex-pressing GLUT4: Effects on muscle and physical activity. FASEB J. 15, 958–969,
2001.
114. Heine, P.A., Taylor, J.A., Iwamoto, G.A., Lubahn, D.B., Cooke, P.S. Increased adipose
tissue in male and female estrogen receptor-alpha knockout mice. Proc. Natl. Acad.
Sci. U. S. A. 97, 12729–12734, 2000.
115. Simoncini, T., Hafezi-Moghadam, A., Brazil, D.P., Ley, K., Chin, W.W., Liao, J.K.
Interaction of oestrogen receptor with the regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase. Nature. 407, 538–541, 2000.
116. Jessen, N., Goodyear, L.J. Contraction signaling to glucose transport in skeletal
muscle. J. Appl. Physiol. 99, 330–337, 2005.
117. Djouadi, F., Weinheimer, C.J., Safﬁtz, J.E., Pitchford, C., Bastin, J., Gonzalez, F.J.,
Kelly, D.P. A gender-related defect in lipid metabolism and glucose homeostasis inperoxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha-deﬁcient mice. J. Clin. Invest. 102,
1083–1091, 1998.
118. Richard, D. Effects of ovarian hormones on energy balance and brown adipose tissue
thermogenesis. Am. J. Physiol. 250, R245–249, 1986.
119. D’Eon, T.M., Souza, S.C., Aronovitz, M., Obin, M.S., Fried, S.K., Greenberg, A.S.
Estrogen regulation of adiposity and fuel partitioning. Evidence of genomic and non-genomic regulation of lipogenic and oxidative pathways. J. Biol. Chem. 280,
35983–35991, 2005.
120. Bhasin, S., Storer, T.W., Berman, N., Callegari, C., Clevenger, B., Phillips, J., Bunnell,
T.J., Tricker, R., Shirazi, A., Casaburi, R. The effects of supraphysiologic doses oftestosterone on muscle size and strength in normal men. N. Engl. J. Med. 335, 1–7,
1996.
121. Griggs, R.C., Kingston, W., Jozefowicz, R.F., Herr, B.E., Forbes, G., Halliday, D.
Effect of testosterone on muscle mass and muscle protein synthesis. J. Appl. Physiol.
66, 498–503, 1989.
122. Bhasin, S., Storer, T.W., Javanbakht, M., Berman, N., Yarasheski, K.E., Phillips,J., Di ke, M., Sinha-Hikim, I., Shen, R., Hays, R.D., Beall, G. Testosterone replace-
ment and resistance exercise in HIV-infected men with weight loss and low testoster-one levels. JAMA. 283, 763–770, 2000.
123. Ferrando, A.A., Tipton, K.D., Doyle, D., Phillips, S.M., Cortiella, J., Wolfe, R.R.
Testosterone injection stimulates net protein synthesis but not tissue amino acidtransport. Am. J. Physiol. 275, E864–871, 1998.
124. Braun, B., Gerson, L., Hagobian, T., Grow, D., Chipkin, S.R. No effect of short-term
testosterone manipulation on exercise substrate metabolism in men. J. Appl. Physiol.
99, 1930–1937, 2005.
125. Welle, S., Bhatt, K., Thornton, C.A. High-abundance mRNAs in human muscle:
comparison between young and old. J. Appl. Physiol. 89, 297–304, 2000.
126. Karakelides, H., Sreekumaran Nair, K. Sarcopenia of aging and its metabolic impact.
Curr. Top Dev. Biol. 68, 123–148, 2005.
127. Davidson, M.B. The effect of aging on carbohydrate metabolism: A review of the
English literature and a practical approach to the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus inthe elderly. Metabolism. 28, 688–705, 1979.7950_C008.fm  Page 234  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 235
128. Tessari, P. Role of insulin in age-related changes in macronutrient metabolism. Eur.
J. Clin. Nutr. 54 Suppl 3, S126–130, 2000.
129. Wolfe, R.R., Klein, S., Carraro, F., Weber, J.M. Role of triglyceride-fatty acid cycle
in controlling fat metabolism in humans during and after exercise. Am. J. Physiol.
258, E382–389, 1990.
130. Sinha, R., Dufour, S., Petersen, K.F., LeBon, V ., Enoksson, S., Ma, Y .Z., Savoye, M.,
Rothman, D.L., Shulman, G.I., Caprio, S. Assessment of skeletal muscle triglyceride
content by (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in lean and obese adoles-cents: relationships to insulin sensitivity, total body fat, and central adiposity.Diabetes. 51, 1022–1027, 2002.
131. Petersen, K.F., Befroy, D., Dufour, S., Dziura, J., Ariyan, C., Rothman, D.L., DiPietro,
L., Cline, G.W., Shulman, G.I. Mitochondrial dysfunction in the elderly: possiblerole in insulin resistance. Science. 300, 1140–1142, 2003.
132. Sial, S., Coggan, A.R., Carroll, R., Goodwin, J., Klein, S. Fat and carbohydrate
metabolism during exercise in elderly and young subjects. Am. J. Physiol. 271,
E983–989, 1996.
133. Manetta, J., Brun, J.F., Perez-Martin, A., Callis, A., Prefaut, C., Mercier, J. Fuel
oxidation during exercise in middle-aged men: Role of training and glucose disposal.Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. 34, 423–429, 2002.
134. Manetta, J., Brun, J.F., Prefaut, C., Mercier, J. Substrate oxidation during exercise at
moderate and hard intensity in middle-aged and young athletes vs sedentary men.Metabolism. 54, 1411–1419, 2005.
135. Sial, S., Coggan, A.R., Hickner, R.C., Klein, S. Training-induced alterations in fat
and carbohydrate metabolism during exercise in elderly subjects. Am. J. Physiol. 274,
E785–790, 1998.
136. Machann, J., Thamer, C., Schnoedt, B., Stefan, N., Stumvoll, M., Haring, H.U.,
Claussen, C.D., Fritsche, A., Schick, F. Age and gender related effects on adiposetissue compartments of subjects with increased risk for type 2 diabetes: A wholebody MRI/MRS study. Magma. 18, 128–137, 2005.
137. Dela, F., Mikines, K.J., Larsen, J.J., Galbo, H. Training-induced enhancement of
insulin action in human skeletal muscle: The inﬂuence of aging. J. Gerontol. A Biol.
Sci. Med. Sci. 51, B247–252, 1996.
138. Dela, F., Mikines, K.J., Larsen, J.J., Galbo, H. Glucose clearance in aged trained
skeletal muscle during maximal insulin with superimposed exercise. J. Appl. Physiol.
87, 2059–2067, 1999.
139. Short, K.R., Vittone, J.L., Bigelow, M.L., Proctor, D.N., Rizza, R.A., Coenen-
Schimke, J.M., Nair, K.S. Impact of aerobic exercise training on age-related changesin insulin sensitivity and muscle oxidative capacity. Diabetes. 52, 1888–1896, 2003.
140. Clevenger, C.M., Parker Jones, P., Tanaka, H., Seals, D.R., DeSouza, C.A. Decline
in insulin action with age in endurance-trained humans. J. Appl. Physiol. 93,
2105–2111, 2002.
141. Ferrara, C.M., Goldberg, A.P., Ortmeyer, H.K., Ryan, A.S. Effects of aerobic and
resistive exercise training on glucose disposal and skeletal muscle metabolism inolder men. J. Gerontol. A Biol. Sci. Med. Sci. 61, 480–487, 2006.
142. Seals, D.R., Hagberg, J.M., Hurley, B.F., Ehsani, A.A., Holloszy, J.O. Effects of
endurance training on glucose tolerance and plasma lipid levels in older men andwomen. JAMA. 252, 645–649, 1984.
143. Rasmussen, B.B., Fujita, S., Wolfe, R.R., Mittendorfer, B., Roy, M., Rowe, V .L.,
V olpi, E. Insulin resistance of muscle protein metabolism in aging. FASEB J. 20,
768–769, 2006.7950_C008.fm  Page 235  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

236 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
144. Short, K.R., Vittone, J.L., Bigelow, M.L., Proctor, D.N., Nair, K.S. Age and aerobic
exercise training effects on whole body and muscle protein metabolism. Am. J.
Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 286, E92–101, 2004.
145. Coggan, A.R., Abduljalil, A.M., Swanson, S.C., Earle, M.S., Farris, J.W., Mendenhall,
L.A., Robitaille, P.M. Muscle metabolism during exercise in young and older
untrained and endurance-trained men. J. Appl. Physiol. 75, 2125–2133, 1993.
146. Spina, R.J., Chi, M.M., Hopkins, M.G., Nemeth, P.M., Lowry, O.H., Holloszy, J.O.
Mitochondrial enzymes increase in muscle in response to 7–10 days of cycle exercise.J. Appl. Physiol. 80, 2250–2254, 1996.
147. Chen, M., Bergman, R.N., Porte, D., Jr. Insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction
in aging: The importance of dietary carbohydrate. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 67,
951–957, 1988.
148. Fukagawa, N.K., Anderson, J.W., Hageman, G., Young, V .R., Minaker, K.L. High-
carbohydrate, high-ﬁber diets increase peripheral insulin sensitivity in healthy youngand old adults. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 52, 524–528, 1990.
149. Hays, N.P., Starling, R.D., Sullivan, D.H., Fluckey, J.D., Coker, R.H., Williams, R.H.,
Evans, W.J. Effects of an ad libitum, high carbohydrate diet and aerobic exercisetraining on insulin action and muscle metabolism in older men and women. J.
Gerontol. A Biol. Sci. Med. Sci. 61, 299–304, 2006.
150. Cree, M.G., Newcomer, B.R., Katsanos, C.S., Shefﬁeld-Moore, M., Chinkes, D.,
Aarsland, A., Urban, R., Wolfe, R.R. Intramuscular and liver triglycerides areincreased in the elderly. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 89, 3864–3871, 2004.
151. Krssak, M., Falk Petersen, K., Dresner, A., DiPietro, L., V ogel, S.M., Rothman, D.L.,
Roden, M., Shulman, G.I. Intramyocellular lipid concentrations are correlated withinsulin sensitivity in humans: a 1H NMR spectroscopy study. Diabetologia. 42,
113–116, 1999.
152. Levin, K., Daa Schroeder, H., Alford, F.P., Beck-Nielsen, H. Morphometric docu-
mentation of abnormal intramyocellular fat storage and reduced glycogen in obesepatients with Type II diabetes. Diabetologia. 44, 824–833, 2001.
153. Calles-Escandon, J., Arciero, P.J., Gardner, A.W., Bauman, C., Poehlman, E.T. Basal
fat oxidation decreases with aging in women. J. Appl. Physiol. 78, 266–271, 1995.
154. Bonadonna, R.C., Groop, L.C., Simonson, D.C., DeFronzo, R.A. Free fatty acid and
glucose metabolism in human aging: Evidence for operation of the Randle cycle. Am.
J. Physiol. 266, E501–509, 1994.
155. Sandberg, H., Yoshimine, N., Maeda, S., Symons, D., Zavodnick, J. Effects of an oral
glucose load on serum immunoreactive insulin, free fatty acid, growth hormone andblood sugar levels in young and elderly subjects. J. Am. Geriatr Soc. 21, 433–439, 1973.
156. Fraze, E., Chiou, Y .A., Chen, Y .D., Reaven, G.M. Age-related changes in postprandial
plasma glucose, insulin, and free fatty acid concentrations in nondiabetic individuals.J. Am. Geriatr. Soc. 35, 224–228, 1987.
157. Tessari, P. Changes in protein, carbohydrate, and fat metabolism with aging: possible
role of insulin. Nutr. Rev. 58, 11–19, 2000.
158. Balagopal, P., Rooyackers, O.E., Adey, D.B., Ades, P.A., Nair, K.S. Effects of aging
on in vivo  synthesis of skeletal muscle myosin heavy-chain and sarcoplasmic protein
in humans. Am. J. Physiol. 273, E790–800, 1997.
159. Rooyackers, O.E., Balagopal, P., Nair, K.S. Measurement of synthesis rates of speciﬁc
muscle proteins using needle biopsy samples. Muscle Nerve Suppl. 5, S93–96, 1997.
160. Yarasheski, K.E., Zachwieja, J.J., Bier, D.M. Acute effects of resistance exercise on
muscle protein synthesis rate in young and elderly men and women. Am. J. Physiol.
265, E210–214, 1993.7950_C008.fm  Page 236  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 237
161. Welle, S., Thornton, C., Jozefowicz, R., Statt, M. Myoﬁbrillar protein synthesis in
young and old men. Am. J. Physiol. 264, E693–698, 1993.
162. Welle, S., Totterman, S., Thornton, C. Effect of age on muscle hypertrophy induced
by resistance training. J. Gerontol. A Biol. Sci. Med. Sci. 51, M270–275, 1996.
163. Short, K.R., Vittone, J.L., Bigelow, M.L., Proctor, D.N., Coenen-Schimke, J.M., Rys,
P., Nair, K.S. Changes in myosin heavy chain mRNA and protein expression in human
skeletal muscle with age and endurance exercise training. J. Appl. Physiol. 99, 95–102,
2005.
164. Rooyackers, O.E., Adey, D.B., Ades, P.A., Nair, K.S. Effect of age on in vivo  rates
of mitochondrial protein synthesis in human skeletal muscle. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
U S A. 93, 15364–15369, 1996.
165. Lee, C.K., Klopp, R.G., Weindruch, R., Prolla, T.A. Gene expression proﬁle of aging
and its retardation by caloric restriction. Science. 285, 1390–1393, 1999.
166. Hasten, D.L., Pak-Loduca, J., Obert, K.A., Yarasheski, K.E. Resistance exercise
acutely increases MHC and mixed muscle protein synthesis rates in 78–84 and 23–32yr olds. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 278, E620–626, 2000.
167. Welle, S., Thornton, C., Statt, M. Myoﬁbrillar protein synthesis in young and old
human subjects after three months of resistance training. Am. J. Physiol. 268,
E422–427, 1995.
168. Balagopal, P., Schimke, J.C., Ades, P., Adey, D., Nair, K.S. Age effect on transcript
levels and synthesis rate of muscle MHC and response to resistance exercise. Am. J.
Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 280, E203–208, 2001.
169. Welle, S., Bhatt, K., Thornton, C.A. Stimulation of myoﬁbrillar synthesis by exercise
is mediated by more efﬁcient translation of mRNA. J. Appl. Physiol. 86, 1220–1225,
1999.
170. Wolfe, R.R. Optimal nutrition, exercise, and hormonal therapy promote muscle anab-
olism in the elderly. J. Am. Coll. Surg. 202, 176–180, 2006.
171. V olpi, E., Ferrando, A.A., Yeckel, C.W., Tipton, K.D., Wolfe, R.R. Exogenous amino
acids stimulate net muscle protein synthesis in the elderly. J. Clin. Invest. 101,
2000–2007, 1998.
172. Katsanos, C.S., Kobayashi, H., Shefﬁeld-Moore, M., Aarsland, A., Wolfe, R.R. Aging
is associated with diminished accretion of muscle proteins after the ingestion of asmall bolus of essential amino acids. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 82, 1065–1073, 2005.
173. Biolo, G., Tipton, K.D., Klein, S., Wolfe, R.R. An abundant supply of amino acids
enhances the metabolic effect of exercise on muscle protein. Am. J. Physiol. 273,
E122–129, 1997.
174. Fiatarone, M.A., O’Neill, E.F., Ryan, N.D., Clements, K.M., Solares, G.R., Nelson,
M.E., Roberts, S.B., Kehayias, J.J., Lipsitz, L.A., Evans, W.J. Exercise training andnutritional supplementation for physical frailty in very elderly people. N. Engl. J.
Med. 330, 1769–1775, 1994.
175. Tipton, K.D., Elliott, T.A., Cree, M.G., Aarsland, A.A., Sanford, A.P., Wolfe, R.R.
Stimulation of net muscle protein synthesis by whey protein ingestion before andafter exercise. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 2006.
176. Koopman, R., Verdijk, L., Manders, R.J., Gijsen, A.P., Gorselink, M., Pijpers, E.,
Wagenmakers, A.J., van Loon, L.J. Co-ingestion of protein and leucine stimulatesmuscle protein synthesis rates to the same extent in young and elderly lean men. Am.
J. Clin. Nutr. 84, 623–632, 2006.
177. Esmarck, B., Andersen, J.L., Olsen, S., Richter, E.A., Mizuno, M., Kjaer, M. Timing
of postexercise protein intake is important for muscle hypertrophy with resistancetraining in elderly humans. J. Physiol. 535, 301–311, 2001.7950_C008.fm  Page 237  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

238 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
178. Haub, M.D., Wells, A.M., Tarnopolsky, M.A., Campbell, W.W. Effect of protein
source on resistive-training-induced changes in body composition and muscle size in
older men. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 76, 511–517, 2002.
179. Saris, W.H., Tarnopolsky, M.A. Biological ageing: A physiological perspective. Curr.
Opin. Clin. Nutr. Metab. Care. 3, 469–472, 2000.
180. Brierley, E.J., Johnson, M.A., James, O.F., Turnbull, D.M. Effects of physical activity
and age on mitochondrial function. QJM. 89, 251–258, 1996.
181. Brierley, E.J., Johnson, M.A., James, O.F., Turnbull, D.M. Mitochondrial involvement
in the ageing process. Facts and controversies. Mol. Cell. Biochem. 174, 325–328,
1997.
182. Kraemer, W.J., Hakkinen, K., Newton, R.U., Nindl, B.C., V olek, J.S., McCormick,
M., Gotshalk, L.A., Gordon, S.E., Fleck, S.J., Campbell, W.W., Putukian, M., Evans,W.J. Effects of heavy-resistance training on hormonal response patterns in youngervs. older men. J. Appl. Physiol. 87, 982–992, 1999.
183. Kraemer, W.J., Staron, R.S., Hagerman, F.C., Hikida, R.S., Fry, A.C., Gordon, S.E.,
Nindl, B.C., Gothshalk, L.A., V olek, J.S., Marx, J.O., Newton, R.U., Hakkinen, K.The effects of short-term resistance training on endocrine function in men and women.Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. 78, 69–76, 1998.
184. Sullivan, D.H., Roberson, P.K., Johnson, L.E., Bishara, O., Evans, W.J., Smith, E.S.,
Price, J.A. Effects of muscle strength training and testosterone in frail elderly males.Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. 37, 1664–1672, 2005.
185. Tchernof, A., Desmeules, A., Richard, C., Laberge, P., Daris, M., Mailloux, J.,
Rheaume, C., Dupont, P. Ovarian hormone status and abdominal visceral adiposetissue metabolism. J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 89, 3425–3430, 2004.
186. Toth, M.J., Tchernof, A., Sites, C.K., Poehlman, E.T. Effect of menopausal status on
body composition and abdominal fat distribution. Int. J. Obes. Relat. Metab. Disord.
24, 226–231, 2000.
187. Carr, M.C. The emergence of the metabolic syndrome with menopause. J. Clin.
Endocrinol. Metab. 88, 2404–2411, 2003.
188. Mar golis, K.L., Bonds, D.E., Rodabough, R.J., Tinker, L., Phillips, L.S., Allen,
C., Bassford, T., Burke, G., Torrens, J., Howard, B.V . Effect of oestrogen plus
progestin on the incidence of diabetes in postmenopausal women: Results from theWomen’s Health Initiative Hormone Trial. Diabetologia. 47, 1175–1187, 2004.
189. Kritz-Silverstein, D., Barrett-Connor, E. Long-term postmenopausal hormone use,
obesity, and fat distribution in older women. JAMA. 275, 46–49, 1996.
190. Sayegh, R.A., Kelly, L., Wurtman, J., Deitch, A., Chelmow, D. Impact of hormone
replacement therapy on the body mass and fat compositions of menopausal women:A cross-sectional study. Menopause. 6, 312–315, 1999.
191. Brooke-Wavell, K., Prelevic, G.M., Bakridan, C., Ginsburg, J. Effects of physical
activity and menopausal hormone replacement therapy on postural stability in post-menopausal women—a cross-sectional study. Maturitas. 37, 167–172, 2001.
192. Khosla, S., Melton, L.J., 3rd, Atkinson, E.J., O’Fallon, W.M., Klee, G.G., Riggs, B.L.
Relationship of serum sex steroid levels and bone turnover markers with bone mineraldensity in men and women: A key role for bioavailable estrogen. J. Clin. Endocrinol.
Metab. 83, 2266–2274, 1998.
193. Costill, D.L., Fink, W.J., Getchell, L.H., Ivy, J.L., Witzmann, F.A. Lipid metabolism
in skeletal muscle of endurance-trained males and females. J. Appl. Physiol. 47,
787–791, 1979.7950_C008.fm  Page 238  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

Nutritional Implications of Sex and Age Differences in Energy Metabolism 239
194. Froberg, K., Pedersen, P.K. Sex differences in endurance capacity and metabolic
response to prolonged, heavy exercise. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. 52,
446–450, 1984.
195. Blatchford, F.K., Knowlton, R.G., Schneider, D.A. Plasma FFA responses to pro-
longed walking in untrained men and women. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol.
53, 343–347, 1985.
196. Romijn, J.A., Coyle, E.F., Sidossis, L.S., Rosenblatt, J., Wolfe, R.R. Substrate metab-
olism during different exercise intensities in endurance-trained women. J. Appl.
Physiol. 88, 1707–1714, 2000.
197. Goedecke, J.H., St Clair Gibson, A., Grobler, L., Collins, M., Noakes, T.D., Lambert,
E.V . Determinants of the variability in respiratory exchange ratio at rest and during
exercise in trained athletes. Am. J. Physiol. Endocrinol. Metab. 279, E1325–1334,
2000.
198. Melanson, E.L., Sharp, T.A., Seagle, H.M., Horton, T.J., Donahoo, W.T., Grunwald,
G.K., Hamilton, J.T., Hill, J.O. Effect of exercise intensity on 24-h energy expenditureand nutrient oxidation. J. Appl. Physiol. 92, 1045–1052, 2002.
199. M’Kaouar, H., Peronnet, F., Massicotte, D., Lavoie, C. Gender difference in the
metabolic response to prolonged exercise with [13C]glucose ingestion. Eur. J. Appl.
Physiol. 92, 462–469, 2004.
200. Zehnder, M., Ith, M., Kreis, R., Saris, W., Boutellier, U., Boesch, C. Gender-speciﬁc
usage of intramyocellular lipids and glycogen during exercise. Med. Sci. Sports.
Exerc. 37, 1517–1524, 2005.
201. Roepstorff, C., Thiele, M., Hillig, T., Pilegaard, H., Richter, E.A., Wojtaszewski, J.F.,
Kiens, B. Higher skeletal muscle {alpha}2AMPK activation and lower energy chargeand fat oxidation in men than in women during submaximal exercise. J. Physiol. 2006.7950_C008.fm  Page 239  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

7950_C008.fm  Page 240  Thursday, June 21, 2007  9:42 AM

 
241 
9 
Body Weight Regulation 
and Energy Needs 
Melinda M. Manore and Janice L. Thompson 
CONTENTS 
I.  Introduction ..................................................................................................241
II. Manipulation of Energy Balance to Induce Weight Loss or Weight Gain.242
A. Energy Balance Equation .....................................................................242B. Manipulation of the Components of the Energy Balance Equation .......243
III. Diet Composition and Fuel Utilization .......................................................246
A. High-Carbohydrate, Low-Fat Diets......................................................247B. Low-Carbohydrate, High-Protein Diets ...............................................248
IV . Optimal Body Weight and Composition for Exercise Performance...........250V . Weight Loss Strategies.................................................................................251
A. Safe Weight Loss Strategies.................................................................252B. Pathogenic Strategies and Health Concerns ........................................252
VI. Weight Gain Strategies.................................................................................255
A. Gaining Muscle Mass...........................................................................256
VII.  Conclusions and Recommendations............................................................257References..............................................................................................................257 
I. INTRODUCTION 
For many athletes, either weight loss or weight gain may be a goal depending ontheir sport. For sports such as basketball, American football, and weight-lifting,weight gain is often a goal, with a focus on gaining muscle mass. Conversely, forother sports such as wrestling, distance running, gymnastics, diving, and dance, alow body weight is considered a necessity for ensuring successful performance. Forthose sports where performance is judged based on some aesthetic component (e.g.,dance, diving, and gymnastics), the pressure is even greater to be thin. In additionto performance pressures, athletes are also susceptible to the societal pressures tobe thin or to have a particular body shape and size. This is especially true amongmany female athletes where the drive for thinness can become obsessive, leading todisordered eating behaviors and potential detrimental health consequences. 
1 
When is it appropriate for an athlete to lose weight? There are situations in
which weight loss in an athlete may be warranted. Some athletes may gain body fat 
7950_C009.fm  Page 241  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
242 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
in the off-season, and their performance is enhanced when they lose the excess body
fat. However, there are also many circumstances in which the athlete or coachingstaff may have unrealistic goals and expectations regarding body weight and per-formance. If weight loss is necessary, what is the safest way to encourage healthyweight loss in an athlete? If weight gain is warranted, how can muscle mass gainsbe optimized without resorting to unproven supplements or ergogenic aids? Thischapter will address these questions. First, a review of energy balance, fuel oxidation,and the relationship of these factors to weight loss and gain is given. Second, wereview the safe weight loss strategies athletes can use. We then discuss the pathogenicweight loss strategies athletes should not use and their associated health concerns.Finally, we review the recommendations for safe weight gain, with a focus on gainingmuscle mass. In the athlete, both weight loss and weight gain need to be approachedwith care, prudence, and realistic expectations for all involved in the process. 
II. MANIPULATION OF ENERGY BALANCE 
TO INDUCE WEIGHT LOSS OR WEIGHT GAIN 
Weight loss or gain requires an imbalance between energy intake and energy expen-diture. For weight loss, energy intake will be intentionally reduced below the levelof energy expenditure or energy intake can remain stable, while energy expenditureis increased. For weight gain, the reverse is true. Energy intake needs to be increasedabove energy expenditure, while also incorporating both resistance-training (RT)and aerobic exercise into the weight gain plan. While manipulating energy balanceappears simple, a number of factors affect an individual’s ability to either lose orgain weight. These factors include changes in the components of the energy balanceequation and the manipulation of fuel oxidation through alterations in the macronu-trient composition of the diet. In addition, a number of other factors unique to eachindividual need to be considered, such as genetic make-up, lifestyle, environmentalconditions, social and behavioral circumstances, stage of growth, and diet andexercise habits. 
2 
A. E 
NERGY 
 B 
ALANCE 
 E 
QUATION 
The energy balance equation comprises energy intake and energy expenditure, andstates that body weight is maintained if energy intake equals energy expenditure:
Energy balance occurs when: E 
in 
  
= 
 E 
out 
Where E 
in 
  
= 
 Energy in (kJ/d or kcal/d) and E 
out 
  
= 
 Energy expended (kJ/d or kcal/d)
The oxidation rates of the macronutrients must also balance and are discussed laterin this chapter.
Each side of the energy balance equation must be assessed. The three compo-
nents of total daily energy expenditure (TDEE) are resting metabolic rate (RMR),thermic effect of food (TEF), and the thermic effect of activity (TEA). RMR repre-sents the energy expended to support all resting metabolic functions (e.g., maintain-ing body temperature, ventilation, cellular electrical activity). The TEF represents 
7950_C009.fm  Page 242  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs 
243 
the energy expended as a result of digestion, absorption, transport, and storage of
foods consumed. The TEA includes a number of factors associated with movement:(1) programmed physical activity, (2) activities of daily living, which would includeall movement/activities done above resting level, including very low level activitiessuch as sitting and standing, and (3) spontaneous physical activity and/or ﬁdgeting,which includes small movements such as changing your position in a chair, tappingyour foot, shivering, and maintaining your posture. 
Levine 
3 
 has suggested that the activities of daily living (e.g., everything we do
that is not sleeping, eating, or sport/exercise activities) be classiﬁed as non-exerciseactivity thermogenesis (NEAT). He has hypothesized that NEAT may help explainwhy some people are obese and others are not and why some people can maintaintheir body weight, while others gain weight. 
4,5, 
 He and colleagues 
5 
 compared the
NEAT in 10 mildly obese and 10 lean sedentary individuals and found that obeseindividuals were seated 2 h/d longer than lean individuals, who were standing or
walking 2.5 h/d more than obese individuals. This difference in NEAT accounted
for a difference of 350  
± 
 65 kcal/d (5,6). Thus, this component of TDEE needs to
be considered when looking at athletes’ daily activities. Are the athletes extremelysedentary during the day, except when they are training for their sport? If they are,they may be expending less energy than might be estimated or anticipated forsomeone considered to be physically active. This was demonstrated by Thompsonet al., when they compared the energy expenditures of two groups of highly trainedmale triathletes matched for age, fat free mass (FFM) and weight. These researchersfound that those triathletes who appeared to have low energy intakes compared withenergy expenditures (energy intakes that were 1535  
± 
 524 kcal < estimated energy
expenditures), yet reported being weight stable, had signiﬁcantly lower spontaneousphysical activity levels than those athletes whose energy intake more closely matchedtheir energy expenditure. Data were collected in a metabolic chamber where allmeals and activity were controlled. Thus, the athletes originally estimated to haveinadequate energy intake were actually in energy balance.
For most sedentary individuals, RMR accounts for 60–75% of TDEE, with the
TEF and TEA accounting for 6–10% and 15–34% of TDEE, respectively. 
8 
 Of course,
athletes will have a higher level of TEA because of their high level of programmedphysical activity. Increasing TDEE to result in weight loss can be accomplished bymanipulating one or more of these three components, as discussed below. The reverseis also true for weight gain. Increasing total energy intake above TDEE can resultin weight gain. 
B. M 
ANIPULATION 
  
OF 
  
THE 
 C 
OMPONENTS 
  
OF 
  
THE 
 E 
NERGY 
 
B 
ALANCE 
 E 
QUATION 
Although it has long been claimed that exercise increases RMR, its effects are equiv-ocal. Since RMR is dependent primarily on level of muscle and organ tissue, the impactof exercise and becoming more ﬁt on RMR will depend on whether there is a changein FFM and total body weight. Although some cross-sectional studies comparingathletes with untrained subjects have found athletes to have signiﬁcantly higher RMRvalues, 
9,10 
 others have found no difference in RMR among untrained and trained
individuals. 
11,12 
 These studies have compared RMR values using kcal/kg FFM, thus 
7950_C009.fm  Page 243  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
244 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
controlling for the differences in FFM between trained and untrained controls. Results
of more recent training studies show that most individuals do not experience an increasein RMR with training, when data are expressed as kcal/kg FFM. 
13,14 
 
It is important to remember that results from a particular study may depend on
how the data are expressed and collected. For example, Byrne and Wilmore 
13 
 com-
pared the effect of RT or RT plus walking on RMR in sedentary, moderately obese(37.5% body fat) women over a 20-wk training program. They found a signiﬁcantincrease in RMR in the RT-only group and a signiﬁcant decrease in RMR in the RT-plus-walking group, when RMR was expressed as either ml O 
2 
/min or total kcal/d,
but no differences when RMR was expressed as kcal/kg FFM/day. In fact, RMRexpressed as kcal/kg FFM decreased in both groups, but was only signiﬁcantly lowerin the RT-plus-walking group. In this study, FFM increased by 1.9 kg in both groupsdue to the training programs, with similar increases in total body weight, but nochange in fat mass or relative body fat. Thus, based on increases in body weightalone, we would expect RMR to increase. It is likely that many factors affect one’smetabolic response to exercise, including genetics; the type, intensity, and duration
of exercise training; the timing of RMR measurement in relationship to the last
exercise bout; and how the data are collected and expressed. In summary, the researchdata are not clear on whether exercise increases RMR; however, we do know thatsigniﬁcant increases in FFM can increase RMR. Thus, the impact of any trainingprogram on RMR will depend on how body weight and composition change and towhat degree.
RMR is known to have a genetic component, with approximately 40% of the
variability in RMR explained by genetics in twins and pairs of parents and childrenafter adjusting for the inﬂuences of age, gender and FFM. 
15 
 The type of training
employed could have an impact on changing the RMR. The strongest predictor ofRMR is FFM, with approximately 80% of the variance in RMR accounted for byFFM. 
8 
 As indicated above, it would seem that increasing one’s FFM through RT
would increase FFM, and in turn, increase RMR. 
13 
 Interestingly, Bosselaers et al. 
16 
found that body builders had signiﬁcantly higher absolute 24-h energy expenditurethan inactive controls, but this difference disappeared when adjustments were madefor differences in FFM among the two groups. However, exercise has been foundto prevent some of the decline in RMR that occurs with energy restriction anddieting, 
17 
 but appears to be protective only when energy restriction is not severe. 
18 
 
Exercise intensity and duration can also have an impact on RMR and TDEE.
Fat is the predominant fuel source during endurance-type exercise of low to moderateintensity. As exercise intensity increases above 60–70% of VO 
2max 
, carbohydrate
contributes proportionately more energy than fat. In addition, most individuals canperform low- to moderate-intensity exercise for a longer duration than high-intensityexercise, resulting in greater energy expenditure over time. These ﬁndings led to therecommendation that weight loss is best achieved by performing moderate-intensityendurance-type exercise for 45–60 min duration. 
However, a study by Tremblay et al. 
19 
 challenged these assumptions. They found
that individuals participating in high-intensity bicycling training were shown to havea greater reduction in skinfold thickness than individuals who performed moderate-intensity continuous bicycling training. The high-intensity training reduced body fat 
7950_C009.fm  Page 244  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs 
245 
more despite the fact that the energy cost of the high-intensity training was less than
half of moderate-intensity training. The authors concluded that high-intensity train-ing may have signiﬁcantly increased loss of body fat by affecting an increase in  
β 
-
oxidation enzyme activity. This study has led to important changes in how we makeweight loss recommendations to athletes. Today, all athletes incorporate high-intensityworkouts, including RT training programs, into their overall training programs fortheir sports. We know that high-intensity workouts build strength and FFM andexpend more energy per minute than slower, more aerobic-type exercises. Thus,including all types of exercise into a weight-loss program along with moderateenergy restriction will allow athletes to continue to perform at high intensities whileexperiencing desirable body fat changes.
In addition to its potential impact on RMR, exercise can also increase TDEE
through an increase in energy expenditure above RMR during a brief period followingthe exercise bout. This increase in energy expenditure is referred to as excess
postexercise oxygen consumption (EPOC). It has been well documented in the
exercise literature that exercise (both endurance and RT) increases EPOC. 
20 
 However,
the degree of EPOC that occurs with exercise varies dramatically (4–21%) dependingon the type, intensity, and duration of exercise that occurs. 
21 
 For example, Bahr et al. 
22 
found that 80 min of exercise at 70% VO 
2max 
 signiﬁcantly increased EPOC by 15%
at 12-h postexercise, while EPOC was only 5.1% at 12-h postexercise when theexercise lasted only 20 min. When three bouts of exercise at 108% VO 
2max 
 for 2 min
were performed, EPOC lasted 4 h following exercise. 
23 
RT (90–100 min) has also been found to increase EPOC. Melby et al. 
24 
 and
Osterberg and Melby 
25 
 found EPOC was elevated 5–10% and 4% above RMR when
measured the morning following RT in both men and women, respectively. It is generallyagreed that exercise can increase EPOC for a period of time after exercise, but exerciseneeds to be of either long duration or high intensity to increase EPOC to any signiﬁcantextent. If exercise is intense enough or long enough to increase EPOC, then we wouldexpect an overall increase in TDEE. However, moderate levels of physical activity forapproximately 30 min (40–70% VO 
2max 
) do not signiﬁcantly increase EPOC for any
signiﬁcant length of time and RMR returns to baseline with ~30–50 min. 
21,26 
 
The TEF is inﬂuenced by the composition of the diet (% of energy from fat,
carbohydrate, protein, and alcohol). The thermogenic effects of a nutrient dependon the energy costs of digesting, transporting, and metabolizing that nutrient forenergy (ATP) or storing the energy as fat. The thermic effect of carbohydrate (orglucose), fat, and protein are 6–8%, 2–3% and 25–40%, respectively, of the totalenergy consumed. 
27,28  
This means that very little energy is needed to metabolize and
store fat, while processing and storing protein and carbohydrate are less energyefﬁcient. The magnitude of TEF is also dependent upon the total daily energy intake.TEF typically accounts for 6–10% of the energy intake, but can vary from 4–15%depending on the individual. 
29 
 Using a typical individual with a daily energy intake
of 2500 kcal/d, the TEF would be 150–250 kcal/d. To affect an increase in TEF, onewould need to increase energy intake, which could result in positive balance andweight gain, or alter the nutrient composition of the diet. 
The third component of TDEE is the TEA, which accounts for energy expended
above RMR and TEF. Because the TEA is the most variable of the components of 
7950_C009.fm  Page 245  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
246 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
energy expenditure, it is the one most easily manipulated to result in weight loss.
Increasing this component in some athletes is not practical, as they may already beexercising a great deal. In fact, it is common for many endurance athletes to expend1000–2000 kcal/d while engaging in sport-related activities. Thompson et al. 
7 
 found
that the RMR of a group of elite male endurance athletes accounted for only 38–47%of TDEE (as opposed to 60–75% in most sedentary individuals) due to their highlevels of exercise training. Thus, the present physical activity level of the athletemust be assessed before recommendations regarding changing the other componentsof TEA can be made.  
III. DIET COMPOSITION AND FUEL UTILIZATION 
The ability of an individual to lose or gain body weight and change body compositionis inﬂuenced not only by alterations in energy intake and TDEE, but also by theoxidation rates of the macronutrients consumed. For weight and body compositionto be maintained over time, energy intake must equal energy expenditure and sub-strates consumed must equal their oxidation rates. Therefore, macronutrient balanceoccurs when:
Protein 
in  
= 
 Protein 
oxidation 
CHO 
in 
  
= 
 CHO 
oxidation 
Fat 
in  
= 
 Fat 
oxidation 
Alcohol 
in  
= 
 Alcohol 
oxidation 
where Protein 
in 
 is the amount of protein intake (g/d) and Protein 
oxidation 
 is the amount
of protein oxidized (g/d). These same notations apply to CHO, fat, and alcohol.
It is now known that under normal physiological conditions, carbohydrate,
protein, and alcohol are not readily converted to triglycerides or stored as adiposetissue. 
30-33 
 This is due to an increase in oxidation rates in response to increased
intakes of carbohydrate, protein, and alcohol. When carbohydrates are consumed,glycogen storage and glucose oxidation are increased, while fat oxidation isdecreased. 
31,34 
 Under normal feeding conditions, glucose that is not stored is utilized
for energy, 
34 
 with little  
de novo 
 lipogenesis occurring from excess carbohydrate
intake. 
31,32 
 As with carbohydrate, increased protein intake is also accompanied by
an increase in protein oxidation, and any excess amino acids are deaminated andthe carbon skeletons can be used to meet energy demands. 
34 
 Because alcohol cannot
be converted to body fat, alcohol is considered a priority fuel that is oxidized aboveprotein and carbohydrat. 
35 
 Alcohol consumption suppresses fat oxidation and can
indirectly contribute to body fat storage by providing alternative sources of fuel foroxidation, while the fat in the meal is stored as body fat. Thus, when discussingweight loss with an athlete, the amount of alcohol consumed in the diet cannot beignored. High alcohol consumption can be a major reason that athletes do not reachtheir weight loss goals. 
The effect of inadequate energy or carbohydrate intake has a unique impact on
protein balance and is a key concern for athletes attempting to lose weight. Inade-quate intakes of carbohydrate or energy will result in a negative protein balance. 
7950_C009.fm  Page 246  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs 
247 
Thus, a higher protein/kcal ratio is required to maintain protein balance when energy
or carbohydrate intake is insufﬁcient. To prevent loss of FFM, it is important thatboth carbohydrate and protein are eaten in adequate quantities to maximize proteinsparing in the athlete attempting to lose body fat.
Fat balance differs from protein and carbohydrate balance in that the oxidation
of fat does not immediately increase proportionately with increased fat intake. 
34 
 The
failure to oxidize dietary fat in response to increased fat intake results in the excessenergy consumed as dietary fat being converted to fat for storage in the adiposetissue. The varied responses of carbohydrate, protein, alcohol, and fat oxidation tochanges in intake emphasize the importance of nutrient composition when designingweight-loss programs for athletes. 
A. H 
IGH 
-C 
ARBOHYDRATE 
, L 
OW 
-F 
AT 
 D 
IETS 
According to the energy balance equation, weight loss will occur when energy intake
is lower than energy expenditure. However, the composition of the diet plays animportant role in the composition of the weight lost and in providing the energynecessary for exercise training. A common recommendation for weight loss is theconsumption of a high-carbohydrate, low-fat diet. The previous discussion of fueloxidation sheds light on how this type of diet can result in the loss of body fat. Theconsumption of excess energy results in fat storage due to the efﬁciency of storingdietary fat over other fuels, as it is the fuel least likely to be oxidized in proportionto its intake. Since excess carbohydrate is not readily stored as body fat, a high-carbohydrate, lower-fat diet will less likely result in body-fat accumulation. 
The macronutrient dietary recommendations made to most athletes fall within
those recommend by the Institute of Medicine (IOM), Food and Nutrition Board,
for the general public. The IOM established the acceptable macronutrient distributionranges (AMDRs) 
36 
 for adults; these ranges are 45–65% of energy from carbohydrate
and 20–35% of energy from fat, with the remainder coming from protein. Theserecommendations assume that individuals are meeting their protein requirements,which have been set at 0.8 g/kg. 
36 
 Protein requirements of athletes are discussed
elsewhere in this text, but the requirements are typically higher than in sedentaryindividuals. 
37 
 
Because athletes need carbohydrate for energy during exercise and must replace
their glycogen stores after exercise is over, we typically recommend higher carbo-hydrate diets to athletes, with the exact percentage dependent on the athlete’s sport.Thus, for an endurance athlete a high-carbohydrate, low-fat diet would provideapproximately 60–65% of energy from carbohydrate and approximately 20–25% ofenergy from fat, with 10–20% of total energy from protein. Weight loss has beenaccomplished with this type of diet even when dieters are given  
ad libitum 
 access
to food, as long as low-fat meat, milk and dairy products are used along withunprocessed carbohydrates (whole grains/cereals, whole fruits, vegetables). Theweight loss that accompanies  
ad libitum 
 food intake may be beneﬁcial to athletes
who are maintaining heavy training schedules while trying to lose body fat. Twoprimary mechanisms have been identiﬁed to explain weight loss despite  
ad libitum 
food intake on high-carbohydrate diets that primarily comprise whole grains/cereals, 
7950_C009.fm  Page 247  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
248 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
fruits, and vegetables, plus low-fat protein sources. These hypothesized mechanisms
are listed below: 
• Signiﬁcantly less energy (kcal/g of food) is consumed with a high-
carbohydrate diet comprising unprocessed carbohydrates, due to its higher
ﬁber and lower fat content 
38–40 
• Sense of fullness and less hunger when consuming a high-carbohydrate
unprocessed diet, due to the increased bulk of the foods eaten 
38,41,42 
• Suppression of appetite and decreased energy consumed in the subsequent
meal when consuming low-energy-dense foods (kcal/g or volume of food)such as broth-based soups and salads before a meal. 
43 
The high-carbohydrate, low-fat diets that beneﬁt athletes should contain an
abundance of unprocessed carbohydrate foods such as legumes and beans, wholegrains/cereals, whole fruits, vegetables, and low-fat meat and dairy products. It isvery easy to consume a high-carbohydrate, low-fat diet by eating a diet high insimple carbohydrates, such as soda, cookies, candy, high-sugar cereals, processedgrains (crackers, pasta, white bread) and beverages high in added sugars, such as
some fruit, coffee, tea and energy drinks. While these types of foods provide glucose,
they supply few other nutrients (such as vitamins, minerals, and ﬁber), and they canalso lead to excess energy intake. While the excess simple carbohydrates will notlikely be stored as fat, any dietary fat included in the meal that is not utilized forenergy will be stored in the adipose tissue, and body fat and weight gain can result. 
B. L 
OW 
-C 
ARBOHYDRATE 
, H 
IGH 
-P 
ROTEIN 
 D 
IETS 
Low-carbohydrate, high-protein weight loss plans are in abundance. While packagedunder a variety of names and marketing strategies, this type of diet typically com-prises foods containing at least 30% or more of the energy from protein, less than45% of total energy from carbohydrate, and the balance of energy derived from fat.Although the Atkins diet 
44 
 falls in and out of favor with dieters, this type of low-
carbohydrate diet (less than 20g/day) has never been recommended for athletesbecause the carbohydrate level is too low to support exercise, maintain blood glucoselevels, and replace muscle glycogen. The recommended dietary allowance (RDA)for carbohydrate is 130 g/d, which is the average minimum amount of glucoseutilized by the brain. 
36 
 This level of carbohydrate is higher than that recommended
by the Atkins diet, 
44 
 but is too low for athletes. There are two mechanisms proposed
to support the use of the high protein-type diets for athletes:
1. The thermic effect of protein is high, which means that more energy is
expended in the absorption, digestion and metabolism of protein. Higherprotein diets are more satiating, which may make it easier to adhere tothe dietary plan. 
2. Reducing dietary carbohydrate will prevent the excessive production of
insulin (or insulin “surges”) that result from eating a high carbohydratemeal; lower levels of insulin leads to reduced fat storage and improvedglucose regulation. 
7950_C009.fm  Page 248  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs 
249 
Research examining whether low-carbohydrate, high-protein/fat diets result in
greater weight loss than energy-equivalent low-fat, high-carbohydrate diets (e.g.,
conventional diet) shows that, initially, people lose weight faster on the low-carbohydra te, high-protein/fat diets, but after 12 months total weight loss is similar. 
45 
The major disadvantage of applying a low-carbohydrate diet plan to the lifestyle ofan athlete is that this type of diet will result in glycogen depletion, leaving the athletewith limited or no capability of performing high-intensity activities. Another disad-vantage of a low-carbohydrate diet plan is that body weight decreases more rapidlydue to the increased diuresis, or loss of body water, that accompanies the oxidationof stored carbohydrate. While the weight-loss goals are achieved, these diets leaveone feeling lethargic, short-tempered, dehydrated, and unable to perform muchphysical activity. Carbohydrate is the most critical fuel for athletic performance, andconsuming inadequate amounts of carbohydrate will hinder the athlete’s cognitiveability and the ability to train and perform optimally, and could lead to ﬂuid and
electrolyte imbalances that can be harmful.
Claims regarding the risks of consuming a high-carbohydrate diet include con-
cerns about the regulation of glucose and insulin metabolism and the storage of
excess carbohydrate as body fat. As insulin signals the cells to store glucose andfat, and dietary carbohydrate results in the secretion of insulin, dietary carbohydrateis claimed to be dangerous if consumed in large proportions, and is blamed forinsulin insensitivity, mood swings, and increased body fat. It is important to under-stand that much of the research published on glucose/insulin regulation, weight loss,and responses to various diets include obese subjects and individuals with type 2diabetes or other glucose regulation problems. These individuals are not the meta-bolic peers of highly trained athletes. Athletes have improved glucose tolerance andinsulin sensitivity compared with their healthy sedentary counterparts, 
46 
 and respond
quite differently to the dietary regimens imposed upon sedentary obese and individualswith diabetes. For example, Niakaris et al. 
46 
 gave healthy lean male sprint runners,
endurance runners, and sedentary controls a 75-g oral glucose-tolerance test. Theyfound that the basal plasma insulin and the insulinemic responses to glucose weresigniﬁcantly higher in controls than the athletes (p < 0.05, p < 0.02, respectively).There were no differences for these variables between endurance and sprint runners.In addition, both groups of athletes were more insulin-sensitive than controls, regard-less of the measure of insulin sensitivity used (p < 0.05). These results show thatexercise training improves the ability of the body to metabolize glucose.
Recommendations for carbohydrate intake to ensure glycogen repletion will vary
depending on the size of the individual, his or her gender, and the type of sport inwhich the athlete is participating. Of course, some sports rely much more heavilyon glycogen stores (e.g., long-distance endurance sports) than sports that are shorterin duration or are intermittent in nature (e.g., gymnastics, wrestling, volleyball). Ingeneral, 7–10 g of carbohydrate/kg body weight will be adequate to normalizecarbohydrate stores in 24-h after exercise. 
47 
 In smaller individuals, such as women
and children, this recommendation may be too high and carbohydrate intakesbetween 5–6 g/kg body weight may be adequate. These goals are achievable if onemonitors total energy needs and reduces excess dietary fat from the diet, whileassuring that adequate amounts of dietary unprocessed carbohydrates consumed. 
7950_C009.fm  Page 249  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
250 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
IV. OPTIMAL BODY WEIGHT AND COMPOSITION 
FOR EXERCISE PERFORMANCE 
While body weight can affect performance in sports requiring moving the body
horizontally or vertically through space, the composition of the body, or amount ofbody fat, appears to be a more signiﬁcant predictor of performance than body weight.Examples of sports where lower body fat is advantageous include distance running,diving, gymnastics, wrestling, and ﬁgure skating. Some sports also have judges whorate performance, such as gymnastics and body building. In these sports, a leanphysique is generally required for successful performance. There are many instanceswhere fat mass, in adequate amounts, is advantageous. Examples include contactsports, where the application and absorption of force and momentum are criticalcomponents, in addition to long-distance swimming, where fat mass assists withmaintaining buoyancy and body temperature. 
While all athletes need to be ﬁt and prepared for competition, not all individuals
should be classiﬁed into the same body-weight category. Unfortunately, many abuses
of weight standards occur, and extreme dieting behaviors can lead to poor perfor-mance, illness, disordered eating behaviors, menstrual dysfunction in female athletes,and in extreme cases, even death. 
48–50 
 How can healthy and responsible weight
recommendations be made for athletes? In reality, weight standards for groups of
athletes are not appropriate and should not be applied if at all possible. There aresome sports, such as gymnastics, where physical appearance is critical to perfor-mance and closely linked with the maintenance of a relatively low body weight.Thus, it is important to assist these athletes with combining a competitive bodyweight with healthy eating practices. 
The most effective strategy for assessing appropriate weight loss is to measure
the body composition of the athlete, and if body fat levels are higher than isconsidered optimal, weight loss can be responsibly guided by reducing body fat andmaintaining FFM. A detailed description of the procedure to assist an athlete withhealthy and responsible weight loss is provided in section V of this chapter. Assess-ment of body composition is helpful in determining both the levels of body fat andFFM. Body composition is not error-free, however, and the results should be appliedappropriately. Even when the best assessment methods are used (e.g., hydrostaticweighing and bone density assessment or DXA), the error associated with estimatingbody fat ranges from 1–3%. 
51 
 Using other methods increases this range of error.
Using skinfold or bioelectrical impedence measures very carefully, and applying thecorrect prediction equations will at best result in a prediction error of 3% body fat. 
51
This means that if percentage body fat is measured at 16%, actual percentage bodyfat may be as low as 13% or as high as 19%. Because many individuals who assessbody composition in athletes are not adequately trained, the prediction error couldbe even greater.
As with body weight standards, many abuses of values are derived using mea-
sures of body composition. The following is an example of inappropriate use ofskinfold measures in an athlete: A female distance runner has her body compositionassessed using skinfold calipers. Her body fat is calculated to be 15%. The teamstandard for body fat is 14%, and this athlete is instructed to lose approximately7950_C009.fm  Page 250  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs 251
10 pounds (4.5 kg) in an attempt to reduce her body fat to desirable levels. As just
reviewed, even under the best circumstances of measurement this athlete’s body fatmay be as low as 12% or as high as 18%. Thus, this athlete may already have apercentage body fat within desirable ranges, and weight loss is not necessary. Inaddition, the goal for weight loss is based on an arbitrary decision, and is not basedon the athlete’s existing body fat stores. 
It has been suggested
51 that the minimal levels of body fat that are compatible
with health are 12% for women and 5% for men. The scenario just presented iscommon, especially among collegiate athletic teams. In this type of situation, it isimportant not only to have realistic and healthy percentage body-fat goals, but tomeasure body composition using another, preferably more accurate method to geta clearer picture of whether this athlete has a percentage body fat that falls withindesirable ranges.
Unfortunately, there are numerous situations in which starting line-ups, schol-
arship status, and punitive exercise measures are determined solely based upon anathlete’s percentage body fat. Athletes can also be devastated by the results of thesetests, and may be driven to extreme measures to reach a goal that may or may notbe realistic. It is critical that the athlete, coach, and family of the athlete are awareof the limitations of body composition assessments in order to gain a realistic attitudetoward ways to improve performance, and avoid focusing on reducing body weightand body fat entirely as factors to enhance performance. 
If weight loss is indicated, it is important to maintain as much FFM as possible.
This can be accomplished by setting realistic body-weight and body-fat goals basedupon the existing FFM. The new goal weight can be calculated using the followingformula:
52
For example, a male basketball player has been measured at 230 pounds (104.5 kg),17% body fat and has a FFM of 191 pounds (85.4 kg). The goal for this player isto reduce body fat to a range of 10–13%. Applying the range of desired percentagebody fat values, this athlete’s goal weight range is 212–220 pounds (96–100 kg).This calculation assumes that the athlete will lose predominantly fat mass andmaintain FFM. If we apply this equation to the scenario with the female athletediscussed previously (assuming she weighs 115 pounds or 52.3 kg), we ﬁnd that toreduce her percentage body fat from 15% to 13%, she would need to lose only 2 to3 pounds (1–1.4 kg), not the 10 pounds (4.5 kg) recommended.
V. WEIGHT LOSS STRATEGIES
While there are a variety of healthy plans an athlete can follow for weight loss,
there also is an abundance of strategies available that can be harmful and potentiallydeadly for the athlete. A review of both safe and pathogenic weight-loss strategiesis provided in this section.Goal WeightFat-free mass FFM
desired %=−()
1 b body fat7950_C009.fm  Page 251  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

252 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
A. S AFE WEIGHT LOSS STRATEGIES
Successful and safe weight loss is dependent upon many factors. As training and
performance are dependent upon sound nutrition, designing a program that addressesindividual habits, food preferences, health needs, and training schedules will helpensure that the athlete will meet weight loss and performance goals. Table 9.1outlines the steps to follow when designing a weight-loss plan for an athlete. Whilethe athlete can use this information to design a weight-loss program, it is mostbeneﬁcial to seek assistance from a registered dietitian (RD) who is trained in sportsnutrition. Many universities have full- and part-time RDs who can assist athleteswith meeting their weight loss goals, and there are also RDs working in the com-munity who specialize in sports nutrition. If possible, weight loss should be accom-plished during the off-season, as losing weight during the season can negativelyimpact training and performance. The ideal rate of weight loss is 1–2 pounds perweek (0.5–1kg), as faster weight loss can lead to loss of FFM. Measuring the bodycomposition, current dietary intake, and typical activity level of an athlete arenecessary to determine the energy and macronutrient needs of the athletes. Asdiscussed earlier, prescribing a diet high in unprocessed carbohydrates (wholegrains/cereals, fruits and vegetables) will ensure adequate carbohydrate for trainingand glycogen repletion and help control hunger. It is always a good idea for anathlete to take a general multi-vitamin/mineral supplement when dieting, especiallyif energy intake is less than 2000 kcal/d.
B. P ATHOGENIC  STRATEGIES  AND HEALTH  CONCERNS
Pathogenic weight loss strategies include any weight loss behaviors or actions that arepotentially harmful to the athlete. These strategies include restrained eating, chronicdieting, bingeing and purging, skipping meals, fasting, excessive exercise, laxative ordiet pill abuse, and dehydration. Although participating in these behaviors can lead toweight loss, numerous health problems can result, so athletes need to be educatedabout the risks of these types of behaviors. Some of the most common health concernsthat can result from practicing pathogenic weight-loss strategies are nutritional deﬁ-ciencies, eating disorders, and severe dehydration. Each of these concerns can have anegative impact on the health and performance of athlete. While many athletes andcoaches may view these problems as acute (short term) and having no long-term impacton health, the following evidence suggests that these dietary practices can seriouslythreaten the long-term health of the athlete. Below we have “bulleted” some of theadverse health effects associated with various weight-loss practices:
•Nutritional deﬁciencies . In order to lose weight, athletes frequently
restrict food intake by skipping meals, eliminating food groups, fasting,or eating only one to three foods a day. Anytime athletes regularly restrictenergy intake to <1500 kcal/d for females and <1800 kcal/d for men, theyare at increased risk for poor nutrient intakes. This level of energy intakeis too low to meet the macro- and micronutrients needs of the body andfuel the body for exercise, especially if physical activity is high. Severeenergy restriction is especially a problem for female athletes, since they7950_C009.fm  Page 252  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs 253
typically need less energy than male athletes due to their smaller body
size. In addition, even female athletes who are not dieting frequently haveenergy and nutrient intakes that are below recommended levels.
53,4 Carbo-
hydrate, iron, calcium, B-vitamins (B6. B12, folate), vitamin D, magnesium,TABLE 9.1Steps To Follow When Designing a Weight Loss Plan for an Athlete
*
•  Assess body composition using the most accurate method(s) available. Calculate a reasonable goal 
weight range for the athlete using the following equation:
• Assess current dietary intake using weighed diet records.* Information should be considered 
regarding dietary habits, including the time and places where food is consumed. Determine 
situations that may trigger the athlete to overeat.
• Determine the athlete’s current activity level using activity records or published questionnaires. 
Analyze the athlete’s activity patterns. Are they optimal for inducing weight loss? If not, determine any adjustments that need to be made in daily activity patterns to increase TDEE.
• Estimate energy balance by subtracting energy expenditure from energy intake. Energy restriction 
should equal about 300–500 kcal/d less than the current energy needed to maintain body weight. Remember, it is common for individuals to under-report energy intake
65 and over-report physical 
activity levels. If the energy intake of the athlete appears to be low, use either the energy-expenditure estimate from the activity records or the midpoint value between reported energy intake and energy expenditure as the energy-intake goal for weight loss.
• The diet plan should be designed around the recommended macronutrient intakes of athletes while 
taking into account the athlete’s individual needs based on sport, food preferences, and costs. Diets should be high in unprocessed carbohydrate, such as beans and legumes, whole grain cereals and breads, fruits, vegetables, and low-fat meats and dairy. 
• All athletes on a reduced-energy diet plan should take a multivitamin/mineral supplement. Women 
may also need to take an additional calcium supplement, with vitamin D added. Iron supplementation can beneﬁt those at risk for iron depletion and deﬁciency anemia. Before taking iron supplements, iron status should be assessed, current dietary sources determined and excess iron losses identiﬁed. Iron supplementation should be done under the direction of a health professional. 
• Encourage regular ﬂuid intake. Athletes need to consume enough ﬂuid to replace losses that occur 
with training and normal metabolism.
• Encourage athletes to eat small meals and snacks throughout the day to reduce feelings of hunger. 
Select foods that have low energy density (kcal/g) such as salads, whole fruits, broth-based soups, and vegetables.
• Encourage the athlete to maintain healthy dietary practices. Stress the importance of maintaining 
training and performance while achieving gradual weight loss of 1–2 pounds (0.5–1 kg) per week.
• Athletes should limit or avoid consuming alcoholic beverages and other forms of high-sugar, low-
nutrient-dense beverages. Alcohol decreases fat oxidation and increases fat storage while increasing appetite.
66
* For details on using diet and activity records to estimate energy balance refer to Thompson and
Manore.21Goal weightfat-free mass FFM
desired %=−()
1 b body fat7950_C009.fm  Page 253  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

254 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
iron, and zinc are nutrients particularly affected by energy restriction
among athletes. All of these nutrients are critical for optimal health andperformance. Chronically low-energy and -nutrient intakes can lead toglycogen depletion, decreased oxygen-carrying capacity, increased inci-dence of bone fractures, and higher injury rates due to fatigue and impairedcell growth and repair. With these concerns in mind, athletes reducingbody weight will beneﬁt from taking a complete multivitamin/mineralsupplement, and female athletes may also need to take supplementalcalcium and vitamin D.
•Disordered eating.  For some athletes, chronically dieting to maintain a
low body weight can be the ﬁrst step toward developing a clinical eatingdisorder such as bulimia nervosa or anorexia nervosa, or eating disordersnot otherwise speciﬁed (EDNOS).
1,48,55 See Beals1 for a complete review
of disordered eating issues in athletes. The rates of eating disorders anddisordered eating among athletes participating in aesthetic, thin-buildand weight -dependent sports (e.g., gymnastics, dance, distance running,
and ﬁgure skating) are signiﬁcantly higher than in sports where weight isnot such an issue.
48 Persistent dietary restriction can lead to binge-and-
purge eating. Bingeing includes consuming large quantities of food at onetime, followed by purging using practices such as self-induced vomiting,laxatives, diuretics, and excessive exercise. Bingeing and purging areextremely dangerous practices that can lead to clinical eating disorders,tooth decay, poor performance, dehydration, and even death due to ﬂuidand electrolyte imbalances.
1 Excessive exercise is one form of purging,
and is commonly used by athletes to attempt to prevent storage of anyexcess energy that may be consumed. Our personal experiences haveshown that many college females keep a meticulous count of energy(kcals) consumed over the day and use exercise as a means to punish self-proclaimed “bad” eating behaviors. Athletes should not deprive them-selves of favorite foods or use excessive exercise as a punitive measure. 
One negative health consequence related to disordered eating and eating
disorders, such as anorexia nervosa, is menstrual dysfunction in femaleathletes. Menstrual dysfunction, which includes amenorrhea, oligomenor-rhea, and subclinical ovulatory disturbances, also occurs in many femaleathletes who do not have an eating disorder but may be under eating for theirsport. Physical and psychological stress, low energy intakes, and intensetraining have been implicated in contributing to menstrual disturbances infemale athletes.
50,53,56,57 The athlete’s hormonal status and energy stores, and
the severity of energy restriction interact to play a signiﬁcant role in the onsetof menstrual dysfunction.
58 The potential health problems associated with
menstrual dysfunction are currently being examined by a number of inves-tigators and include decreased bone mineral density, impaired reproductivefunction, and increased risk for cardiovascular disease.
•Dehydration and laxative abuse . Participation in weight-class sports,
such as wrestling, boxing, crew, and horse racing (jockeys), can pushathletes to lose weight rapidly to qualify for a lower weight category or7950_C009.fm  Page 254  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs 255
meet a designated weight. Weight-class athletes frequently participate in
rapid weight loss practices such as fasting, dehydrating, and bingeing andpurging.
49 Dehydration is a practice commonly used for rapid weight loss
in athletes needing to “make weight.” Wrestlers are among certain groupsof athletes who dehydrate themselves by exercising intensely in hot envi-ronments while wearing vapor-impermeable suits. They may also combinethis activity with ﬂuid restriction, the use of diuretics and laxatives, andvomiting.
49 This practice is extremely dangerous and the National Colle-
giate Athletic Association (NCAA) has restricted weight loss for wrestlersto no more than 1.5% of body weight per week.
59,60 Despite these attempts
to prevent the use of dehydration to achieve rapid weight loss, thesepractices are still used by high school and collegiate-level wrestlers. Inextreme cases, death can result.
The deaths of three collegiate wrestlers emphasize the risk of using
dehydration to achieve rapid weight loss.
61 All three wrestlers used similar
rapid weight loss strategies over 3–12 h, including restricted food andﬂuid intake and excessive exercise in hot environments while wearingvapor-impermeable suits. Preliminary reports suggest that death resultedfrom hyperthermia, which was induced by the use of pathogenic strategies.A recent survey of 43 college wrestling teams found that the most weightlost during the season was 5.3 ± 2.8 kg or 6.9% ± 4.7%, while the most
weight during the week was 2.9 ± 1.3 kg or 4.3% ± 2.3%.
49 The three
wrestlers who died lost an average of 30 pounds (13.6 kg) or 15% of totalpre-season weight.
61 It is obvious from these ﬁndings that practicing
dehydration during periods of extreme weight loss can be fatal. Thus,strategies for maintaining regular ﬂuid intake should be an integral partof a safe weight loss plan.
VI. WEIGHT GAIN STRATEGIES
At ﬁrst glance, it would seem that weight gain in an athlete should be easy — itwould be a natural result of simply eating more food (kilocalories) each day. How-ever, the reality is not that simple for athletes who are trying to gain weight. As withweight loss, a number of factors (lifestyle, genetics, environment, social interaction,stage of growth, and exercise training program) must be considered if successful weightgain (e.g., gains in strength and FFM) are to occur. Since neither weight loss norweight gain is easy, a number of supplements have been developed “promising” tohelp athletes achieve their weight goals. Of course, if these products worked, therewould not be so many athletes unsuccessful at reaching their weight goals. When theseproducts do work, they usually contain banned substances (e.g., ephedra for weightloss; anabolic steroids for weight gain) that can get athletes eliminated from theirsports.
62 Below is a discussion of techniques for assuring that weight gain is composed
primarily of FFM, follows sound training and dietary guidelines, and is done withina reasonable time frame. It is important to recognize that the energy recommendationsmade for someone who wants to gain weight will be different from the individual whowants to maintain current body weight but change body composition. For weight gain,7950_C009.fm  Page 255  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

256 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
energy intake must exceed energy expenditure, placing the athlete in positive energy
balance.
A. G AINING  MUSCLE MASS
For most athletes, weight gain really means increases in muscle mass and strength.To assure that the weight gained is muscle mass and not fat, the athlete mustparticipate in a well-designed RT program, continue to participate in the trainingprogram of their individual sport, and consume an energy-dense diet that puts theminto positive energy balance. The athlete still needs to allow time for rest andrecovery, since overtraining will not allow for the synthesis of new muscle tissue.Working with a strength coach will help assure that the RT program is realistic andwill help athletes achieve their goals. Athletes also need to work with a sportsdietitian to assure that weight gain goals are realistic (1–2 pounds/wk; 0.25–0.50kg/wk) within the time frame set. If weight gain is too rapid, the result may be again in fat mass and not muscle mass. Gains in muscle mass are best done in theoff-season, when the demands of athletes’ individual training programs for theirsport will be less intense. This allows them to focus on their diets and their RTprograms, while also allowing adequate time for rest.
As with weight loss, to gain weight the energy balance equation must be con-
sidered. Energy intake must be higher than energy expenditure and careful attentionneeds to be paid to the composition of the diet. The dietary recommendations forincreases in body weight, with a focus on muscle mass, are listed below.
63 This topic
is discussed in more detail by Tarnopolosky.37
Estimate total energy expenditure and increase total energy intake by 300–500
kcal/d above estimated energy expenditure, while maintaining a healthy compositionto the diet (~55–65% of energy from carbohydrate; ~20–25% of energy from fat;~10–20% of energy from protein). The actual macronutrient composition of the dietwill depend on the individual athlete, since some athletes eat so many kcal/d thateven a diet that contains 50% of the energy from carbohydrate is adequate to replacemuscle glycogen.
21,64 
Increase meal and snack frequency, which should naturally increase energy
intake. If the athlete is already consuming a number of meals and snack, using meal-replacement drinks or high-carbohydrate glycogen-replacement drinks betweenmeals or immediately after exercise is an easy way to increase energy intake withoutcontributing to feeling too full.
Increase protein intake to approximately 1.6 g/kg body weight. This level of
protein intake will provide the additional protein needed for new tissue synthesisand will increase the percentage of energy from protein while decreasing the energyfrom carbohydrate and fat. A dietary protein intake that represents about 15% ofenergy from protein, in an energy-sufﬁcient or -positive diet, should be adequate tocover the requirements of most athletes, including both strength and enduranceathletes.
37 Thus, most athletes do not need to add protein powders or shakes to their
diet in order to achieve their protein needs unless this is a dietary preference for them. 
Timing of meals and snacks around exercise training will assure that the athlete
has numerous opportunities to increase energy intake, goes to practice well fueled,7950_C009.fm  Page 256  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs 257
and provides the nutrients required for building muscle and replacing glycogen once
exercise is over. A post-training snack that provides both carbohydrate and high-quality protein (7–10g) may help optimize the body’s ability to synthesize proteinwhile minimizing protein catabolism.
37 
Monitor amount and type of fat intake. Although weight gain is the objective,
fat gain is not. Athletes still need to select healthy fats (olive and canola oil, fattyﬁsh, nuts, lower-fat meat and dairy) and reduce intakes of saturated and trans fattyacids.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
It is apparent that a plethora of weight loss strategies is available for use by athletes.The key to successful weight loss includes providing a diet plan that allows formaintenance of exercise training, health, and performance. Pathogenic weight-lossstrategies, while used frequently by some athletes, should be avoided at all times.For the athlete who wants to gain weight, the struggle can be just as challenging asweight loss is for the athlete who wants to lose weight. For them, the keys to successdepend on a good RT program, a diet plan that allows for positive energy balancewhile containing nutrient-rich foods, and adequate time to achieve the weight-gaingoal. Working with a sports dietitian will make this process easier and reduce therisk of using unhealthy weight gain strategies.
REFERENCES
1. Beals, K. A., Disordered Eating Among Athletes . Human Kinetics, Champaign, IL,
2004.
2. O’Conner, H, and Caterson, I.,Weight loss and the athlete. In Burke L., Deakin V .,
Eds. Clinical Sports Nutrition, 3rd Edition. McGraw-Hill: Boston, 2006, pp. 135–173.
3. Levine, J.A., Non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT). Nutrition Reviews , 62,
S82–S97, 2004.
4. Levine, J.A., Eberhardt, N.L., and Jensen, M.D., Role of non-exercise activity ther-
mogenesis in resistance to fat gain in humans. Science, 283, 212–214, 1999.
5. Levine, J.A., Lanningham-Foster, L.M., McCrady, S.K., Krizan, A.C., Olson, L.R.,
Kane, P.H., Jensen, M.D., and Clark, M.M., Interindividual variation in posture
allocation: Possible role in human obesity. Science , 307, 584–589, 2005.
6. Ravussin, E., A NEAT way to control weight? Science , 307, 530–531, 2005.
7. Thompson, J.L., Manore, M.M., Skinner, J.S., Ravussin, E., and Spraul, M. Daily
energy expenditure in male endurance athletes with differing energy intakes. Med.
Sci. Sports Exerc., 27,347–354, 1995.
8. Ravussin, E. and Bogardus, C., Relationship of genetics, age and physical ﬁtness to
daily energy expenditure and fuel utilization. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. ; 49,968–75, 1989.
9. Bullough, R. C., Gillette, C. A., Harris, M. A., and Melby, C. L. Interaction of acute
changes in exercise energy expenditure and energy intake on resting metabolic rate.Am. J.  Clin. Nutr. , 61, 473–481, 1995.
10. Poehlman, E. T., McAuliffe, T .L., VanHouten, D. R., and Danforth, E., Inﬂuence of
age and endurance training on metabolic rate and hormones in healthy men. Am. J.
Physiol.,  259, E66–E72, 1990. 7950_C009.fm  Page 257  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

258 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
11. Broeder, C. E., Burrhus, K. A., Svanevik, L. A., and Wilmore, J. H., The effects of
aerobic ﬁtness on resting metabolic rate. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. , 55, 795–801, 1992.
12. Horton, T. J. and Geissler, C. A., Effect of habitual exercise on daily energy expen-
diture and metabolic rate during standardized activity. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. ; 59,13–19,
1994.
13. Byrne, H. K. and Wilmore, J. H., The effects of a 20-week exercise training program
on resting metabolic rate in previously sedentary, moderately obese women. Int. J.
Sport Nutr. Exerc. Metab.,  11,15–31, 2001.
14. Keytel, L. R., Lambert, M. I., Johnson, J., Noakes, T. D., and Lambert, E. V ., Free
living energy expenditure in post menopausal women before and after training. Int.
J. Sport Nutr. Exerc. Metab., 22, 226–237, 2001.
15. Bouchard, C., Tremblay, A., Nadeau, A., Despres, J. P., Theriault, G., Boulay, M. R.,
Lortie, G., Leblanc, C., and Fournier, G., Genetic effect in resting and exercise
metabolic rates. Metabolism , 38, 364–370, 1989.
16. Bosselaers, I., Buemann, B., Victor, O. J., and Astrup, A., Twenty-four-hour energy
expenditure and substrate utilization in body builders. Am. J. Clin. Nutr.,  59,10–12, 1994.
17. Thompson, J. L., Manore, M. M., and Thomas, J., Effect of diet and diet-plus-exercise
on resting metabolic rate: A meta analysis. Int. J. Sport Nutr., 6: 41–61, 1996. 
18. Donnelly, J. E., Jacobsen, D. L., Jakacic, J. M., and Whatley, J. E. Very low calorie
diet with concurrent versus delayed and sequential exercise. Int. J. Obesity,  18,
469–475, 1994.
19. Tremblay, A., Simoneau, J., and Bouchard, C., Impact of exercise intensity on body
fatness and skeletal muscle metabolism. Metabolism . 43, 814–818, 1994.
20. Poehlman, E. T. and Melby, C. Resistance training and energy balance. Int. J.  Sport
Nutr. 8, 143–159, 1998.
21. Manore, M.M. and Thompson, J.L., Sport Nutrition for Health and Performance.
Human Kinetics Publishers, Champaign, IL, 2000, ch. 5.
22. Bahr, R., Ingnes, I., Vaage, O., Sejersted, O.,M., Newsholme, E. A., Effect of duration
of exercise on excess post-exercise O2 consumption. J. Appl. Physiol.,  62, 485–490,
1987.
23. Bahr, R., Gronnerod, O., Sejersted, O.M., Effect of supramaximal exercise on excess
postexercise O2 consumption. Med. Sci. Sport Exer ., 24, 66–71, 1992. 
24. Melby, C., Scholl, C., Edwards, G., and Bullough, R., Effect of acute resistance
exercise on postexercise energy expenditure and resting metabolic rate. J. Appl.
Physiol ., 75(4), 1847–1853, 1993.
25. Osterberg ,K. L., and Melby, C. L., Effect of acute resistance exercise on postexercise
oxygen consumption and resting metabolic rate in young women. Int. J. Sport Nutr.
Exerc. Metab.  10, 71–81, 2000.
26. Smith, J. and McNaughton, L., The effects of intensity of exercise on excess post-
exercise oxygen consumption and energy expenditure in moderately trained men andwomen. Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. , 67, 420–425, 1993.
27. Flatt, J. P., The biochemistry of energy expenditure. In: Bray, G., ed. Recent Advances
in Obesity Research II.  London: John Libbey, 1978, pp. 211–228
28. Jequier, E., Regulation of thermogenesis and nutrient metabolism in the human:
Relevance for obesity. In: Bjorntorp, P., Brodoff, B. N., eds.  Obesity . Philadelphia:
Lippincott, 1992, pp. 130–135.
29. Hollis, J. H., Mattes, R. D. Are all calories created equal? Emerging issues in weight
management. Curr. Diabetes Reports , 5, 374–378, 2005.
30. Swinburn, B. and Ravussin, E., Energy balance or fat balance? Am. J. Clin. Nutr.,
57(suppl), 766S–71S, 1993.7950_C009.fm  Page 258  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

Body Weight Regulation and Energy Needs 259
31. Flatt, J. P., Macronutrient composition and food selection. Obesity Res.,  9,
256S–262S, 2001.
32. Saris, W. H. M., Sugars, energy metabolism and body weight control. Am. J. Clin.
Nutr., 78(suppl):850S–857S, 2003.
33. Saris, W. H. M. and Tarnopolsky, M.A., Controlling food intake and energy balance:
Which macronutrient should we select? Curr. Opinion Clin. Nutr. Metab.  Care, 6,
609–613, 2003.
34. Thomas, C. D., Peters, J. C., Reed, W. G., Abumrad, N. N., Sun, M., and Hill. J. O.,
Nutrient balance and energy expenditure during ad libitum feeding of high-fat and
high-carbohydrate diets in humans. Am. J. Clin. Nutr ., 55, 934–942, 1992.
35. Suter, P.M., Is alcohol consumption a risk factor for weight gain and obesity? Critical
Rev. Clin. Lab. Sci ., 43, 197–227, 2005.
36. Institute of Medicine (IOM), Food and Nutrition Board. Dietary Reference Intakes
for Energy, Carbohydrate, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and AminoAcids.  Washington DC: National Academy Press, 2005.
37. Tarnopolosky, M., Protein and amino acids needs for training and bulking up. In:
Burke, L., Deakin, V ., eds. Clinical Sports Nutrition, 3rd Edition. McGraw-Hill:
Boston, 2006, pp.73–98.
38. Duncan, K. H., Bacon, J. A., and Weinsier, R. L., The effects of a high and low energy
dense diets on satiety, energy intake and eating time of obese and non-obese subjects.Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 37, 763–767, 1983.
39. Lissner, L., Levitsky, D. A., Strupp, B. J., Kalkwarf, H. J., and Roe, D. A. Dietary
fat and the regulation of energy intake in human subjects. Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 46,
886–886, 1987.
40. Tremblay, A., Plourde, G., Depres, J. P., and Bouchard, C., Impact of dietary fat
content and fat oxidation on energy intake in humans. Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 49, 799–895,
1989.
41. Ledikwe, E. J., Blanck, H. M., Kettle K. L., Serdula, M. K., Seymour, J. D., Tohill,
B. C., and Rolls, B. J. Dietary energy density is associated with energy intake andweight status in US adults. Am. J. Clin. Nutr., 84, 1362–1268, 2006.
42. Rolls, B. J., Drewnowski, A., and Ledikwe, J. H., Changing the energy density of
the diet as a strategy for weight management. J. Am. Diet. Assoc. , 105, S98–103, 2005.
43. Rolls, B. J., Roe, L. S., and Meengs, J. S., Salad and satiety: energy density and
portion size of a ﬁrst-course salad affect energy intake at lunch. J. Am. Diet. Assoc.,
104, 1570–1576, 2004.
44. Atkins, R.C., Atkins for Life . St. Martin’s Press, New York, 2003.
45. Foster, G. D., Wyatt, H, R., Hill, J. O., McGuckin, B. G., Brill, C., Mohammed, B.
S., Szapary, P. O., Rader, D. J., Edman, J. S., and Klein, S. A randomized trial of alow-carbohydrate diet for obesity. N.Engl J.Med.,  348, 2082–2090, 2003.
46. Niakaris, K., Magkos, F., Geladas, N., Sidossis, L. S., Insulina sensitivity derived
from oral glucosa tolerante testing in athletes: disagreement between available indi-cies. J. Sports Sci., 23, 1065–1073, 2005.
47. Burke, L. Preparation for competition. In: Burke, L. and Deakin, V ., Eds. Clinical
Sports Nutrition, 3rd Edition. McGraw-Hill: Boston, 2006, pp. 335–384.
48. Beals, K. A., Manore, M. M., Disordered eating and menstrual dysfunction in female
collegiate athletes.  Int. J. Sport Nutr. Exerc. Metab.,  12, 281–293, 2002. 
49. Oppliger, R. A., Steen, S. A. N., Scott, J. R., Weight loss practices of college wrestlers.
Int. J. Sport Nutr. Exerc. Metab.  13, 29–46, 2003. 
50. Otis, C. L., Drinkwater, B., Johnson, M., Loucks, A., and Wilmore, J., The female
athlete triad. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc ., 29, i–ix, 1997.7950_C009.fm  Page 259  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

260 Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise
51. Lohman, T. G., Advances in Body Composition Assessment , Human Kinetics, Cham-
paign, IL, 1992, p. 7. 
52. Wilmore, J. H., Body weight standards and athletic performances, In: Eating, Body
Weight and Performance in Athletes. Disorders of Modern Society. Brownell, K. D.,
Rodin, J., and Wilmore, J. H., Eds., Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia, 1992, 315–329.
53. Manore, M. M., Nutritional recommendations and athletic menstrual dysfunction.
Int. Sport Med. J ., 5, 45–55, 2004.  
54. Manore, M. M. and Woolf, K., Nutritional concerns of the female athlete. In: Ensuring
the Health of Active and Athletic Girls and Women.  Ransdell, L. and Petlichkoff, L.
eds., Waldorf, MD: National Association for Girls and Women in Sport, American
Alliance for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance, 2005, pp. 167–203.
55. Beals, K.A. and Manore, M.M.. Behavioral, psychological, and physical character-
istics of female athletes with subclinical eating disorders. Int. J. Sport Nutr. Exerc.
Metab.,  10,128–143, 2000.
56. Dueck, C.A., Manore, M.M., and Matt, K.S., Role of energy balance in athletic
menstrual dysfunction. Int. J. Sport Nutr., 6, 90–116, 1996.
57. Manore, M.M., Running on empty: Health consequences of chronic dieting in active
women. ACMS’s Hlth. Fitness J., 2, 24–31, 1998.
58. Loucks, A. B., Energy balance and body composition in sports and exercise. J. Sports
Sci., 22, 1–14, 2004.
59. National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), NCAA Sports Medicine Handbook
2005–06, http://www.ncaa.org. Accessed October, 2006.
60. National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), NCAA 2007 Wrestling Rules and
Interpretations.  http://www.ncaa.org. Accessed October, 2006.
61. Division of Nutrition and Physical Activity, Hyperthermia and dehydration-related
deaths associated with intentional rapid weight loss in three collegiate wrestlers —North Carolina, Wisconsin, and Michigan. Morbidity Mortality Wkly. , 47, 105, 1998.
62. Maughan, R. J. Contamination of dietary supplements and positive drug test in sport.
J Sports Sci.,  23, 883–889, 2004.
63. Slater, G., Practical Tips — Bulking up. In: Burke, L. and Deakin, V ., Eds. Clinical
Sports Nutrition, 3rd Edition. McGraw-Hill Publ: Boston, 2006, pp. 99–103.
64. Manore, M. M., and Thompson, J. L., Energy requirements of the athlete: Assessment
and evidence of energy efﬁciency. In: Burke, L. and Deakin, V ., Eds. Clinical Sports
Nutrition, 3rd Edition. McGraw-Hill: Boston, MA, 2006, pp. 113–134.
65. Trabulis, J. and Schoeller, D. A., Evaluation of dietary assessment instruments against
doubly labeled water, a biomarker of habitual energy intake. Am. J.  Physiol. Endo-
crinol. Metab.,  281, E891–E899, 2001.
66. Yoemans, M. R., Caton, S., and Hetherington, M. M., Alcohol and food intake. Curr.
Opin. Clin. Nutr. Metab. Care, 6, 639–644, 2003. 7950_C009.fm  Page 260  Wednesday, June 20, 2007  5:59 PM

 
261 
Index 
A 
Accelerometers, 173–175
Acceptable Macronutrient Distribution Range 
(AMDR), 72, 212, 247
Actigraph, 173Adenosine diphosphate (ADP), 3Adenosine monophosphate (AMP), 85Adenosine monophosphate kinase (AMPK), 85Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 3, 84
anaerobic, 93metabolic pathways producing, 85production, 5, 98resynthesis of, 10synthase, 5
Adipose lipolysis, 48Adipose tissue
fat stored in, 7FFA mobilization from, 96triglyceride breakdown in, 10
ADP,  
see 
 Adenosine diphosphate
Aerobic energy production, 86Aerobic power, 128Age differences,  
see 
 Sex and age differences, 
nutritional implications in energy metabolism
AI, 
 see  
Adequate intake
Alanine, 102
Alcohol consumption, fat oxidation and, 246
Alpha keto acid residues, 90AMDR, 
 see  
Acceptable Macronutrient 
Distribution Range
Amenorrhea, 12American Cancer Society, diet recommendation, 
32
American Heart Association
diet recommendations, 32Just Move Program, 171
Amino acid(s)
absorption, speed of, 70branched-chain, 65, 104, 106catabolism, 90, 97categories of, 101conditional dispensable, 81deaminated, 89degradation of, 99effects on hepatic glucose metabolism, 96essential, 68, 80ﬂux
exercise-induced, 84increase in, 104
glucogenic, 101, 102gluconeogenesis and, 93interorgan exchange of, 104ketogenic, 101, 102metabolism, relationship of glucose 
homeostasis to, 104
nonessential, 81, 82oxidation, 89, 91, 98
exercise and, 77sex differences in, 217
role in energy metabolism, 88synthesis, precursor for, 87
Aminotransferases, 69, 99Ammonia
metabolism, 105, 106as renal system, 107
AMP, 
 see  
Adenosine monophosphate
AMPK, 
 see  
Adenosine monophosphate kinase
Anaerobic energy production, 85Anaerobic glycolysis, substrates for, 10Anaerobic glycolytic energy system, 25Anaerobic power
cycle ergometer tests of, 137
rowing ergometers, 139
use of cycle ergometer to, 137
Anaerobic threshold (AT), 128, 144
identiﬁcation of, 145method for estimating, 151–152methods used to determine, 145, 146
Anorexia nervosa, 254Appetite suppression, 248Aspartate, 87AT, 
 see  
Anaerobic threshold
Athlete(s)
daily energy expenditure of, 149elite
maximal aerobic power of, 143optimal protein intake for, 219
endurance
diet recommended to, 247energy expenditure measures useful 
for, 151
protein requirements, 18, 112 
7950_C010.fm  Page 261  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
262 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
female, drive for thinness, 241
glucose tolerance, 249goal weight for, 241insulin sensitivity, 249power, protein needs of, 112RDA for, 75strength, protein requirements for, 76weight gain strategies, 255weight loss plan for, 253
Athletes, energy expenditure, 127–157
anaerobic threshold, 144–146daily energy expenditure, 149–151economy of human movement, 146–147energy during sport and physical activity, 
134–135
use of heart rate to estimate energy 
expenditure, 135
use of open circuit technology, 134–135
ergometers, 135–140
cross-country ski ergometers, 139–140cycle ergometers, 136–138rowing ergometers, 138–139treadmills, 139
maximal metabolic rate, 142–144metabolic rate during swimming, 140–142methods for measurement of metabolic rate, 
128–134
direct calorimetry, 128–129doubly labeled water, 133–134indirect calorimetry, 129–133
resting energy expenditure, 147–149
factors inﬂuencing, 148–149measurement, 147–148
Athletic equipment, improvement of, 144Athletic performance, nutritional choices and, 1Atkins diet, 248ATP, 
 see  
Adenosine triphosphate 
B 
Bad cholesterol, 
 see  
LDL
Basal metabolic rate (BMR), 147
deﬁnition of, 147measurement of, 148
BCAA, 
 see  
Branched-chain amino acid
BCKAD, 
 see  
Branched-chain keto acid 
dehydrogenase
BCOAD, 
 see  
Branched chain 2-oxo-acid 
dehydrogenase
Bingeing and purging, 254Bioenergetics, principles of, 2BMI, 
 see  
Body mass index
BMR, 
 see  
Basal metabolic rate
Bodybuilders, protein recommendations for, 79Body mass index (BMI), 196Body weight
reduction, effects of hypocaloric diets on, 77relationship between dietary ﬁber and, 199standards, 250
Body weight regulation and energy needs, 
241–260
diet composition and fuel utilization, 246–249
high-carbohydrate, low-fat diets, 247–248low-carbohydrate, high-protein diets, 
248–249
manipulation of energy balance to induce 
weight loss or weight gain, 242–246
energy balance equation, 242–243
manipulation of energy balance equation 
components, 243–246
optimal body weight and composition for 
exercise performance, 250–251
recommendations, 257weight gain strategies, 255–257weight loss strategies, 251–255
pathogenic strategies and health concerns, 
252–255
safe weight loss strategies, 252
Bone density assessment (DXA), 250Bone mineral density, low, 12Branched-chain amino acid (BCAA), 65
changes occurring during exercise, 84degradation of, 99, 106increase in release of, 104muscle transamination of, 100
supplementation, muscle ammonia production 
with, 106
Branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase 
(BCKAD), 99
Branched chain 2-oxo-acid dehydrogenase 
(BCOAD), 218
Breath-by-breath energy expenditure, 
measurement of, 131 
C 
Caloric restriction energy deﬁcit, 15
cAMP, 
 see  
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate
Carbohydrate
beverage(s)
endurance performance and, 41post-exercise, 39thermoregulation and, 37
characterization of, 27complex, 27consumption, glycemic response to, 30digestion, beginning of, 28efﬁcacy of, 34exogenous, oxidation rates for, 38feeding, sudden introduction of unfamiliar, 37 
7950_C010.fm  Page 262  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
Index 
263 
indigestible, 28
intake
dietary decisions concerning, 26inadequate, 246training duration and, 17
loading, 33
classical, 33ﬁrst description of, 213modiﬁed, 34nutritional implications of, 213
needs, 17oxidation
dependence of working muscle on, 7estrogen supplementation and, 210exercise and, 35reduction in women, 212
physiological responses provoked by, 26replacement, 19restriction
fasting and, 94gluconeogenesis and, 93
simple, 27, 39stores
depletion of, 36rapid replacement of, 39
supplementation, beneﬁts of in postexercise 
recovery period, 214
supplements, liquid, 33utilization, too much, 11
Carbohydrates, in energy production, 25–45
carbohydrate manipulation, 31–39
critical periods for, 31daily training diet, 32–33during prolonged endurance exercise, 36–38immediately after exercise, 38–39meal before exercise, 35–36recommendations for, 40research on, 26week before prolonged endurance event, 
33–34
carbohydrate metabolism, 26–31
aging and, 223digestion and absorption, 28glycemic index, 30–31metabolism of glucose and glycogen, 28–30non-oxygen-requiring pathway, 3
future research directions, 41recommendations, 39–40
CARDIA, 
 see  
Coronary Artery Risk Development 
in Young Adults
Carnitine palmitoyl transferase-1 (CPT-1), 221CAS, 
 see  
Casein
Casein (CAS), 70, 71Catecholamines, 51, 218CCK, 
 see  
CholescystokininCellular work, ATP required to accomplish, 3Centers for Disease Control, estimate of obesity 
prevalence, 193
Chemical bond energy, stored, 2Cholescystokinin (CCK), 204Cholesterol, plasma, reduction of, 194Circular pools, 141Circulating hemoglobin concentration, 143Citric acid cycle, 91CK, 
 see  
Creatine kinase
Classical carbohydrate loading, 33Closed circuit spirometry, 130Closed circuit systems, energy equivalent of, 132CoA, 
 see  
Coenzyme A
Coenzyme A (CoA), 103 
Compendium of Physical Activities 
, 164, 171, 176
Complex carbohydrates, 27Computer Science and Applications (CSA), 173Conditionally dispensable amino acids, 81CO
 
2 
 production (VCO 
2 
), 9, 167
Cori cycle, 29, 92Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young 
Adults (CARDIA), 197
Cortisol, 51CPK, 
 see  
Creatine phosphokinase
CPT-1, 
 see  
Carnitine palmitoyl transferase-1
Creatine kinase (CK), 3, 10Creatine phosphokinase (CPK), 85Cross-country ski ergometers, 139–140
CSA, 
 see  
Computer Science and Applications
CTP, 
 see  
Cytidine triphosphate
Cycle ergometers, 136–138
submaximal protocols on, 137
workload of, 136
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), 49Cytidine triphosphate (CTP), 84Cytochrome c oxidase, 5Cytokines, 51 
D 
Daily training diet, 32Deamination, 90, 91Dehydration, 254DEXA, 
 see  
Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry
Diabetes, fasting hyperglycemia in, 95Diet(s)
Atkins, 248comparison of, 112composition, TEF and, 245daily training, 32fatty acid oxidation and, 53high-carbohydrate, concerns about, 249high-carbohydrate, low-fat, 247high-fat, 58 
7950_C010.fm  Page 263  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
264 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
high-glycemic, 34
high-protein, lean body mass and, 78high-protein, low-carbohydrate, 109, 248hypocaloric, effects on body weight reduction, 
77
induced thermogenesis (DIT), 7, 15, 149low-carbohydrate controversy, 111protein-enriched, weight loss on, 111
Dietary ﬁber
categories of, 194content of selected foods, 195delayed glucose absorption and, 202description of, 194gastric distension and, 202glucagon-like peptide 1, 204–205hormonal effects, 202supplements, 199viscosity, 196, 203Western lifestyle and, 205
Dietary ﬁber, inﬂuence on body weight regulation, 
193–208
effects on satiety and satiation, 200–205
effect of dietary ﬁber on satiety, 201potential mechanism for enhanced satiety, 
201–205
epidemiological studies, 196–199
cross sectional studies, 198historical perspective, 196longitudinal studies, 196–198
intervention studies, 199–200
dietary ﬁber-rich foods, 200dietary ﬁber supplements, 199–200
Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 32Dietary intake, changes in energy assessment of, 9Dietary requirements, inﬂuence of exercise on, 16Direct calorimetry, 128–129, 151Disaccharides, 27Disordered eating, 12, 254DIT, 
 see  
Diet-induced thermogenesis
DLW,  
see 
 Doubly labeled water
Doubly labeled water (DLW), 9, 133–134, 167Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), 198DXA, 
 see  
Bone density assessment 
E 
EAR, 
 see  
Estimated average requirement
Eating disorders not otherwise speciﬁed 
(EDNOS), 254
Economy of motion
activity mechanics and, 128energy expenditure and, 146gender and, 146improved, 128method for estimating, 151–152muscle ﬁber type and, 147muscle recruitment pattern and, 147
EDNOS, 
 see  
Eating disorders not otherwise 
speciﬁed
EE,  
see 
 Energy expenditure
EER, 
 see  
Estimated Energy Requirement
Electronic motion sensors, 173Emotional stress, heart rate and, 135Endurance performance, carbohydrate 
supplementation and, 30
Energy
balance equation, 242
manipulation of components, 243weight gain and, 256weight loss and, 247
carbohydrate source of, 29cost, activity, 171deﬁcit, exercise-induced, 15demand
hard exercise and, 10matching of energy supply to, 8, 9
density, meal, 201homeostasis, amino acids and, 105intake, matching with energy expenditure, 160production
aerobic, 87anaerobic, 85, 129mechanisms regulating, 84–85
shortage, chronic, 12source(s)
amino acids as, 108postabsorptive, 91, 92for skeletal muscle metabolism, 47triacylglycerols as, 48
supply, exercise and, 6use of amino acids for, 96utilization, factors impacting, 12yielding pathways, subdivisions of, 3
Energy expenditure (EE), 159
activity-related
assessment of, 163correlation between indirect calorimetry and, 
170
determination of, 173estimates using indirect calorimetry method, 
169
ﬁeld measures used to assess, 181recall surveys and, 179
breath-by-breath, 131daily, 149data, use of portable systems to obtain, 134direct measures of, 167economy of motion and, 146estimation from lifestyle activities, 174gross, calculation of, 162–163 
7950_C010.fm  Page 264  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
Index 
265 
indirect measures of, 165, 169, 175
matching of athletes’ energy intake with, 160measurement of
doubly-labeled water technique, 9terms related to, 161
metabolic cost of physical activity and, 162methods of assessing, 165, 166self-report questionnaires used to quantify 
levels of, 177–178
ventilation measures of, 170
Energy expenditure and physical activity, 
measurement of, 159–189
conceptual framework for quantifying energy 
expenditure, 164–165
deﬁnitions, 160–164measures of physical inactivity, 180–181methods of assessment, 165–189
energy expenditure, 167–170physical activity, 170–180
Energy metabolism, 1–22
effects of amino acids on, 113energy transduction, 2–14
consequences of mismatching supply to 
demand, 10–12
energy demand, 7–8energy supply, 6–7energy-yielding pathways, 3–6factors impacting energy utilization, 12–14general principles of bioenergetics, 2
matching supply to demand, 8–10
how diet inﬂuences energy utilization, 15–16
gross energy intake, 15
macronutrient composition, 15–16
how exercise inﬂuences dietary requirements, 
16–18
carbohydrate needs, 17–18energy needs, 16–17protein needs, 18
protein contribution to, 90role of protein in, 88
Epinephrine, 29, 51EPOC, 
 see  
Excess postexercise oxygen 
consumption
ER, 
 see  
Estrogen receptors
Ergometers, 135–140
cross-country ski ergometers, 139–140cycle ergometers, 136–138rowing, 138–139treadmills, 139
Essential amino acids, 68, 80Estimated average requirement (EAR), 72
criterion to establish, 73deﬁnition of, 72
Estimated Energy Requirement (EER), 7217-Estradiol, 220, 222Estrogen
glucose homeostasis and, 219receptors (ER), 221sex differences and, 219supplementation, in menopausal women, 226
Excess postexercise oxygen consumption 
(EPOC), 245
Exercise
acute, mismatch of energy supply and demand, 11aerobic
amino acid metabolism during, 105fat metabolism and, 224insulin sensitivity and, 223
beneﬁts of in the elderly, 226carbohydrate replacement after, 38catabolic effects of, 96demand, fat supply and, 11effects on dietary protein requirements, 76endurance
beneﬁts of performance during, 37consumption of high GI foods before, 31main sources of energy during, 25net protein breakdown with, 105provision of exogenous carbohydrate during, 
214
sex differences in metabolic fuel selection 
during, 227
sex differences in substrate metabolism 
during, 211
women’s glycogen utilization rates, 220women’s lipid oxidation during, 215
energy supply and, 6evaluation of fuel oxidation during, 56excessive, 254hard, energy demand during, 10inﬂuence on dietary requirements, 16intensity, RMR and, 244lipolysis during, 55liquid carbohydrate consumption during, 36liver glycogen content and, 29meal before, 35metabolism, sex-based differences, 14performance
acute, macronutrients and, 2importance of nutrition to, 1
primary source for energy during, 211resistance, hormone replacement therapy and, 227training
effect on fuel preference, 13inﬂuence on resting energy expenditure, 149REE and, 149timing of meals around, 256
weight dependent, 139
Exhaustion, time to, exercise protocols 
measuring, 41 
7950_C010.fm  Page 265  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
266 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
F 
FABP, 
 see  
Fatty acid binding protein
Facilitated diffusion, 29
Fasting
insulin levels and, 94proteolysis during, 82
Fat,  
see also 
 Fats, in energy production
conversion of carbohydrate to, 16mass, aging and, 224oxidation
alcohol consumption and, 246mechanisms of, 224suppression of, 31
Fat free mass (FFM), 243, 247, 251Fatigue
fall in ATP associated with, 10low muscle glycogen and, 11
Fats, in energy production, 47–62
effects of physical performance, 54–58
FFA release from adipose tissue and delivery 
to muscle, 54–55
lipid ingestion post exercise, 57–58lipolysis during exercise, 55–56muscle triacylglycerol, 56–57
future directions, 58nutritional insights, 52–54
body reserves, 54dietary sources, 52–53supplementation, 53–54toxicity, 54
overview of fat metabolism, 48–52
adipose lipolysis, 48–52triacylglycerol synthesis, 48
Fatty acid
binding protein (FABP), 55metabolism, 52oxidation, regulatory factor for, 53palmitate, typical, 5toxicity, 54translocase protein, 220
FFA, 
 see  
Free fatty acid
FFM, 
 see  
Fat free mass
Fiber,  
see 
 Dietary ﬁber
Fight or ﬂight hormone, 29First Law of Thermodynamics, 9FLEX HR, 169Flight or ﬁght response, 10FNBNAS, 
 see  
Food and Nutrition Board of 
National Academy of Sciences
Food(s)
consumption, timing of, 36energy, efﬁcient storage of, 2energy density, water and, 201ﬁber content of selected, 195ﬁber-rich, studies using, 200frequency questionnaires, 198high-glycemic index, 202intake, metabolic rate and, 148low-GI, 202thermic effect of, 159, 242
Food and Nutrition Board of National Academy 
of Sciences (FNBNAS), 72
Free amino acid pool, 65Free fatty acid (FFA), 48, 92, 215, 335
availability from muscle TGs, 56energy produced from oxidation of, 92mobilization from adipose tissue, 96oxidation, 35, 55partitioning of toward oxidation, 221
Fructose intestinal transporter, 37Fuel
oxidation, exercise and, 56partitioning, 14preference
effect of exercise training on, 13environmental factors and, 14
utilization, diet composition and, 246  
G 
Gastric distension, 202GI, 
 see  
Glycemic index
Global activity questionnaires, 176GLP-1, 
 see  
Glucagon-like peptide-1
Glucagon
exercise metabolism and, 212
like peptide-1 (GLP-1), 204, 205
Gluconeogenesis, 29, 92
amino acids and, 93
carbohydrate restriction and, 93deamination and, 91hormonal control of, 95role of protein in, 89starvation and, 94type II diabetes and, 94
Glucose
absorption, delayed, 202changing supply to meet demand, 10circulating, replenishment of, 91conversion of amino acids to, 29homeostasis
most common disorder of, 95relationship of amino acid metabolism 
to, 104
role of estrogen in, 219
ingestion, 30metabolism of, 28oxidation, energy produced by, 132response curve, 30 
7950_C010.fm  Page 266  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
Index 
267 
tolerance, aging and, 222
transporters (GLUT), 29, 30
GLUT, 
 see  
Glucose transporters
Glutamine, 102
generated of ammonia from, 107stress and, 103
Glycemic index (GI), 26, 70, 202
deﬁnition of, 202diets prescribed using, 31
Glycogen
breakdown, muscle contraction and, 4metabolism of, 28repletion, carbohydrate intake 
and, 249
storage, 6
aging and, 223depleting exercise and, 33insulin and, 93
Glycogenolysis
epinephrine and, 29hepatic, 91
Glycolysis, 3, 86
ATP production by, 98substrates for, 10
Good cholesterol, 
 see  
HDL
Growth hormone, 50, 51GTP, 
 see  
Guanosine triphosphate
Guanosine triphosphate (GTP), 84 
H 
HDL, 78, 111Heart rate (HR), 142, 169
energy expenditure relationship, 135VO 
2 
 relationship, variation in, 169
High-fat diets, negative impact of, 58High-intensity intermittent-training program 
(HIIT), 56
HIIT, 
 see  
High-intensity intermittent-training 
program
Hormone replacement therapy
beneﬁts in the elderly, 226resistance exercise and, 227
Hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL)
growth hormone and, 50phosphorylation, 50regulation of, 49
HR, 
 see  
Heart rate
HSL, 
 see  
Hormone-sensitive lipase
Human energy metabolism, 2,  
see also 
 Energy
Hunger, effect of low-GI foods on, 202Hyperammonemia, 108Hypoglycemia, central nervous system 
functioning and, 29 
I 
IMCLs, see Intramyocellular lipidsIMTGs, see Intramuscular TGsIndirect calorimetry, 8–9, 129–133, 151, 167, 168
closed circuit spirometry, 130correlation between EE and, 170open circuit spirometry, 131–133underlying principle for, 129
Indispensable amino acids, 80Institute of Medicine (IOM), 19, 247Insulin
fasting and, 94glucose level and, 29levels
after meal, 93energy expenditure and, 111
resistance, muscle protein degradation and, 95sensitivity, aging and, 223surges, 248
International Physical Activity Questionnaire 
(IPAQ), 178
Intramuscular TGs (IMTGs), 55, 57Intramyocellular lipids (IMCLs), 7, 215IOM, 
 see  
Institute of Medicine
IPAQ, 
 see  
International Physical Activity 
Questionnaire 
K 
alpha-Ketoisocaproate (KIC), 99KIC, 
 see  
alpha-Ketoisocaproate
Krebs cycle, 
 see  
Tricarboxylic acid cycle 
L 
Labeled bicarbonate method, measurement of 
energy expenditure by, 168
Lactate
build-up, maximal oxygen uptake and, 144conversion to glucose, 29threshold, 144, 146
Laws of Thermodynamics, 2, 9Laxative abuse, 254LCFA, 
 see  
Long-chain fatty acids
Lean body massLDL, 78, 111
high-protein diet and, 78low-carbohydrate diet and, 110postabsorptive energy sources and, 92ultra marathoner’s, 8
Leptin, 51Lifestyle activities, estimation of energy 
expenditure from, 174
Lipid
ingestion, post-exercise, 57intramyocellular, 7 
7950_C010.fm  Page 267  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
268 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
metabolism, 215
aging and, 224
supplements and, 53women’s, 56
oxidation, improvement of, 111
Lipolysis
control of, 50exercise and, 55regulators of, 51
Lipotoxicity, 54Liquid carbohydrate supplements, 33Liquid meals, effects of ﬁber added to, 201Liver
glucose transporter, 30glycogen content, 29urea formation by, 107
Long-chain fatty acids (LCFA), 55 
M 
Macronutrient(s)
composition, energy utilization and, 15dietary calories from, 110
Maltodextrins, metabolism of, 27Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), 83–84Manufacturing Technology Inc. (MTI), 173Maximal aerobic capacity, factors inﬂuencing, 
143
Maximal aerobic power
of elite athletes, 143of triathletes, 142
Maximal metabolic rate, measurement of, 142
Maximal oxygen uptake (VO 
2max 
), 128, 142
lack of improvement in, 144
method for estimating, 151–152running and, 144
MCFA, 
 see  
Medium-chain fatty acids
Meal(s)
before exercise, 35consumption, RER after, 16energy density of, 201liquid, effect of ﬁber added to, 201timing of around exercise training, 256
Medium-chain fatty acids (MCFA), 55Menstrual cycle, glucose levels and, 213Menstrual dysfunction, 254MET,  
see 
 Metabolic equivalent
Metabolic cost, physical activity, 162Metabolic equivalent (MET), 163Metabolic rate, measurement of, 127
direct calorimetry, 128–129doubly labeled water, 133–134indirect calorimetry, 129–133
Metabolism changes, genetically regulated, 210Milk proteins, amino acid uptake and, 69Minnesota Leisure Time Physical Activity 
Questionnaire (MNLTPA), 180
Mitochondrial protein synthesis, aging and, 225MNLTPA, 
 see  
Minnesota Leisure Time Physical 
Activity Questionnaire
Modiﬁed carbohydrate loading, 34MONICA, 
 see  
Multinational Monitoring of 
Trends and Determinants in Cardiovascular Disease
Monounsaturated fats, 52Movement monitors, 172MTI, 
 see  
Manufacturing Technology Inc.
mTOR, 
 see  
Mammalian target of rapamycin
Multinational Monitoring of Trends and 
Determinants in Cardiovascular Disease (MONICA), 197
Muscle(s)
amino acid metabolism in, 97ammonia production, 106contraction, glycogen breakdown during, 4ﬁber type(s), 210
economy of motion and, 147sex-related differences in, 211
glutamine production in, 107glycogen
doubling of, 33levels, inadequate, 33stores, carbohydrates and, 32super compensation, 33,  
see also 
 
Carbohydrate loading
synthesis rates, 38use of, 29
mass, gaining of, 256metabolism, glucose released for, 29protein
degradation, insulin resistance and, 95loss, mechanism behind, 225synthesis, 69, 105
recruitment pattern, economy of motion and, 
147
size, effects of amino acids on, 64skeletal
amino acid catabolism, 97amino acids released from, 100anaerobic ATP and, 93BCAA degradation within, 100effects of exercise on, 82fat stored in, 7glucose uptake, 95myoﬁbril of, 211protein degradation in, 83protein turnover of, 105
triacylglycerol, 56–57
stores during exercise, 56–57use during exercise, 57 
7950_C010.fm  Page 268  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
Index 
269 
wasting, HIV-related, 226
working, dependence on carbohydrate 
oxidation, 7 
N 
NAD 
+ 
, 
 see  
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
NADH dehydrogenase, 5NAS, 
 see  
National Academy of Sciences
National Academy of Sciences (NAS), 73National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA), 255
NCAA, 
 see  
National Collegiate Athletic 
Association
NEAT, 
 see  
Non-exercise activity thermogenesis
NEFA, 
 see  
Nonesteriﬁed fatty acids
Neuropeptide Y , 51Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD 
+ 
), 86
NIDDM, 
 see  
Non-insulin-dependent diabetes 
mellitus
Nonessential amino acids, 81, 82Nonesteriﬁed fatty acids (NEFA), 48, 52, 54Non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT), 8, 
243
Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus 
(NIDDM), 32, 34
Norepinephrine, 51Nutrition, importance to exercise performance, 1 
Nutrition in Exercise and Sport 
, 83 
O 
Obese teenagers, weight lost by, 110Obesity
comparison of diets and, 112dramatic increase in, 194epidemic of, 2prevalence in United States, 193risk for chronic diseases with, 194
OBLA, 
 see  
Onset of blood lactate accumulation
Oligofructose, 204Olympic cycle, new environmental factor with, 14Omega-3 fatty acids, 53Onset of blood lactate accumulation (OBLA), 146Open circuit spirometry, 131–133
bag technique of, 134measurement of swimming actions using, 141
Oxaloacetate, 87, 88Oxidative phosphorylation, 4Oxygen
consumption (VO 
2 
), 8, 59, 167
computational model for, 129cycle ergometers and, 136values used to calculate, 129, 131
delivery, 4 
P 
PA, 
 see  
Physical activity
PAL, 
 see  
Physical activity level index
PC, 
 see  
Pyruvate carboxylase
PCr,  
see 
 Phosphocreatine
PDH, 
 see  
Pyruvate dehydrogenase
Pedometers, limitations to using, 172Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), 50Phosphocreatine (PCr), 3, 10, 85Physical activity (PA), 7,  
see 
  
also 
 Energy 
expenditure and physical activity, measurement of
classiﬁcation of, 162deﬁnition of, 160direct measures of, 170–175
movement monitors, 172–175physical activity records, 170–172
energy during
heart rate, 135open circuit technology, 134–135
level index (PAL), 168logs, 175–176measurement, deﬁning terms associated with, 
164
metabolic cost of, 162methods of assessing, 165, 166quantiﬁcation of, 162questionnaires, 176recalls, 175, 179
related components, 162
self-report questionnaires used to quantify 
levels of, 177–178
Physical inactivity, measures of, 180–181Phytate, 202PI3K, 
 see  
Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase
Polysaccharides, metabolism of, 27Polyunsaturated fats, 52Postexercise recovery period, carbohydrate 
supplementation and, 214
Prolonged endurance event, carbohydrate 
manipulation and, 33
Prostaglandin, 51Protein(s)
animal, 68current RDA for, 76degradation, skeletal muscle, 83fate of, 89fatty acid translocase, 220importance of, 64milk, 69minimum dietary allowance for, 74needs, determination of, 74overloading, 76oxidation, sex differences in, 218 
7950_C010.fm  Page 269  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
270 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
recommendations for sedentary people, 75
requirement(s)
athletic differences in, 218components of, 80energy status and, 18
state of ﬂux of, 66synthesis
amino acids as modulators of, 70conditions affecting, 67effect of testosterone on, 222factors affecting, 66, 67mitochondrial, 225recovery of, 83
thermic effect of, 248turnover
effects of exercise on, 82, 83exercise and, 105
utilization, sex differences in, 217whey, 70
Proteins, in energy metabolism, 63–123
dietary protein, 68–82
dietary reference intakes and recommended 
daily allowances, 71–75
effects of dietary protein on protein 
metabolism, 71
effects of exercise on dietary protein 
requirements, 76–80
essential, conditionally essential, and 
nonessential amino acids, 80–82
quality of proteins, 69–70
recommended dietary allowances for athletes, 
75–76
slow and fast dietary proteins, 70–71
energy metabolism, 84–112
amino acid catabolism, 90–92
fate of dietary protein, 89–90glucogenic and ketogenic amino acids, 
101–105
gluconeogenesis, 92–96low-carbohydrate, high-protein diets and 
energy metabolism, 109–112
metabolic pathways producing ATP, 
85–88
protein contribution, 90protein metabolism and ammonia, 
105–109
role of protein and amino acids, 88–89use of amino acids for energy, 96–101
exercise and protein metabolism, 82–84recommendations, 112–113structure and properties of protein, 
65–68
protein balance, 66–68structural, contractile, enzymes and other 
proteins, 65Pyridoxal phosphate, 68Pyruvate, 3
carboxylase (PC), 109dehydrogenase (PDH), 109
Pyruvic acid, formation of, 68 
Q 
Quantitative history questionnaires, 180 
R 
Rabbit starvation, 108, 113RD, 
 see  
Registered dietitian
RDA, 
 see  
Recommended Dietary Allowance
Recall questionnaires, 178Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA), 71, 72, 
217
amino acid requirements, 73for athletes, 75current recommendation for protein, 76deﬁnition of, 72establishment of, 73protein, 71, 217
Recommended Nutrient Intake (RNI), 71Recumbent bikes, 136REE, 
 see  
Resting energy expenditure
Registered dietitian (RD), 252Relative exercise intensity, 13Remote diet recall, 180RER, 
 see  
Respiratory exchange ratio
Resistance training (RT), 242Respiratory exchange ratio (RER), 7, 
9, 132
Respiratory quotient (RQ), 132, 167
Resting energy expenditure (REE), 147
factors inﬂuencing, 148
gymnast’s, 8hormones increasing, 149inﬂuence of prolonged exercise training 
on, 149
measurement of, 147methods for measuring, 152weight gain or loss and, 147, 152
Resting metabolic rate (RMR), 7, 242, 244
exercise and, 243strongest predictor of, 244
RMR, 
 see  
Resting metabolic rate
RNI, 
 see  
Recommended Nutrient Intake
Rowing ergometers, 138–139
anaerobic power and, 139training effectiveness with, 138types of, 138
RQ,  
see 
 Respiratory quotient
RT, 
 see  
Resistance training 
7950_C010.fm  Page 270  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
Index 
271 
S 
Satiation, effects of dietary ﬁber on, 200
Satiety
dietary ﬁber and, 199effect of low-GI foods on, 202effects of dietary ﬁber on, 200index score, 201potential mechanism for, 201
Sedentary people
maximal metabolic rate of, 142protein recommendations for, 75
Sex and age differences, nutritional implications 
in energy metabolism, 209–239
change in substrate metabolism with aging, 
222–227
beneﬁts of exercise and hormone replacement 
therapy, 226–227
carbohydrate metabolism, 223–224lipid metabolism, 224protein metabolism, 224–225
effects of sex hormones on substrate metabolism 
during endurance exercise, 219–222
estrogen and sex differences, 219–222sex differences due to testosterone, 222
muscle-related differences, 210–211sex differences in substrate metabolism during 
endurance exercise, 211–219
carbohydrate metabolism, 212–214lipid metabolism, 215
protein metabolism, 215–219
Sex hormones, aging-related differences in 
substrate utilization, 210
Simple carbohydrates, 27
Sodium-dependent glucose transporters, 37Speed–heart rate relationship, 146Sports
activities, 134,  
see also 
 Physical activity
energy requirements of, 150
Starvation
conversion of amino acids to glucose, 29gluconeogenesis and, 94liver glycogen content and, 29
Stress
emotional, 135glucose consumption under, 103
Succinyl-CoA, 87Sugar(s)
consumption, blood glucose responses 
to, 30
Dietary Guidelines for Americans 
recommendation, 32
efﬁcacy of, 26
Supercompensation, 7Supplements, placebo effect of, 78Swimming
ﬂume, 141metabolic rate during, 140
Swiss Alps, fuel used during climb in, 75  
T 
TCA cycle, 
 see  
Tricarboxylic acid cycle
TCAI, 
 see  
TCA cycle intermediates
TDEE, 
 see  
Total daily energy expenditure
TEA, 
 see  
Thermic effect of activity
TEF,  
see 
 Thermic effect of food
Terminal electron acceptor, 5Testosterone, 51
sex differences due to, 222supplementation, 210
TG, 
 see  
Triacylglycerol
Thermic effect of activity (TEA), 242, 243Thermic effect of food (TEF), 159, 242Thymidine triphosphate (TTP), 84Time to exhaustion, 41Tolerable Upper Intake Level, deﬁnition of, 72Total daily energy expenditure (TDEE), 7, 242, 243Tour de France, 12Training
duration, recommendations for carbohydrate 
intake based on, 17
effectiveness, rowing ergometers and, 138intense, anabolic effects of, 79resistance, 242virtual environment for, 137
Transamination, 68Transcriptional control, mRNA, 67Trans fat, 52Translational control, mRNA, 67Treadmill(s), 139
exercise on, 139motorized, 139test, heart rate during, 142weight dependent exercise on, 139
Triacylglycerol (TG), 47, 48
as energy source, 48fat stored as, 54fatty acids esteriﬁed to, 54intramuscular, 55muscle, 56–57oxidation, 53synthesis of, 48
Triathletes, maximal aerobic power of, 142Tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, 4, 85, 86, 90
anaplerosis, 89basic energy process of, 87entry point to, 5ﬂux rate of, 88intermediates (TCAI), 87, 88 
7950_C010.fm  Page 271  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM

 
272 
Sports Nutrition: Energy Metabolism and Exercise 
as metabolic hub, 87
oxidation of glucose in, 5
Triglyceride(s)
breakdown in adipose tissue, 10catabolism of, 92energy stored as, 16fat stored as, 7low-carbohydrate dieters and, 111
TTP, 
 see  
Thymidine triphosphate
Type II diabetes, gluconeogenesis and, 94Typical Week Survey, 179
U
Unsaturated fat, association between health and, 52Urea
cycle, 106formation, 107, 108
Uridine triphosphate (UTP), 84Urinary nitrogen excretion measures, 75UTP,  see Uridine triphosphate
V
VCO2, see CO2 production
Ventilatory threshold, 144VO
2, see Oxygen consumption
VO2max, see Maximal oxygen uptake
V olumetric response, 202 Vuelta a España, 12
W
Water
doubly labeled, 9, 133–134, 152, 167food energy density and, 201Weight
dependent exercise, 139gain
energy balance equation and, 256strategies, 255
loss
comparison of diets, 112energy balance equation and, 247nutritional deﬁciencies and, 252plan, steps in designing, 253strategies, 251, 252
standards, abuses of, 250
Western lifestyle, 205WHEL Study,  see Women’s Healthy Eating and 
Living Study
Whey protein (WP), 70WHO,  see World Health Organization
Whole body substrate metabolism, studies of, 
216–217
Women
glycogen utilization rates, 220lipid oxidation during endurance 
exercise, 215
menopausal, estrogen supplementation 
in, 226
reduction in carbohydrate oxidation 
in, 212
Women’s Health Equity Act, The, 14Women’s Health Initiative, NIH-funded, 
171
Women’s Healthy Eating and Living (WHEL) 
Study, 200
Work, energy needed to perform, 8World Health Organization (WHO), 148WP, see Whey protein7950_C010.fm  Page 272  Thursday, July 26, 2007  3:18 PM