--- Page 1 ---
N. Kato
S. Kamimura
Editors
of Swimming
and Flying
Fluid Dynamics,
Biomimetic Robots,
and Sports Science
9) Springer

--- Page 2 ---
Naomi Kato, Shinji Kamimura (Eds.)
Bio-mechanisms of Swimming and Flying
Fluid Dynamics, Biomimetic Robots, and Sports Science

--- Page 3 ---
Naomi Kato, Shinji Kamimura (Eds.)
Bio-mechanisms of
Swimming and Flying
Fluid Dynamics, Biomimetic Robots,
and Sports Science
With 303 Figures, Including 18 in Color
D) Springer

--- Page 4 ---
Naomi Kato, Ph.D.
Department of Naval Architecture and Ocean Engineering
Graduate School of Engineering, Osaka University
2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan
Shinji Kamimura, Ph.D.
Division of Biology, Department of Life Sciences
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo
3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan
ISBN 978-4-43 1-73379-9 Springer Tokyo Berlin Heidelberg New York
Library of Congress Control Number: 2007933067
This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved, whether the whole or part of the
material is concerned, specifically the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustrations,
recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microfilms or in other ways, and storage in data
banks. The use of registered names, trademarks, etc. in this publication does not imply, even
in the absence of a specific statement, that such names are exempt from the relevant protec-
tive laws and regulations and therefore free for general use.
Product liability: The publisher can give no guarantee for information about drug dosage
and application thereof contained in this book. In every individual case the respective user
must check its accuracy by consulting other pharmaceutical literature,
Springer is a part of Springer Science+Business Media
springer.com
© Springer 2008
Printed in Japan
Typesetting: Camera-ready by the editors and authors
Printing and binding: Kato Bunmeisha, Japan
Printed on acid-free paper

--- Page 5 ---
Preface
Tens of thousands of animals are living on this planet. They have survived for
hundreds of millions of years through adaptation and evolution and are living with
a variety of structures and functions in various circumstances in this world. Bio-
mechanics studies of animals’ swimming and flying motions can play an increas-
ingly larger role in understanding the mechanisms that enable animals to move ef-
fectively and efficiently in fluid, as well as analyzing the characteristics of their
various forms of behavior in fluid. Based on such understanding and analysis, we
can develop environment-friendly devices that simulate the natural movements
and responses of biological creatures in fluid.
This book is a collection of peer-reviewed papers originally submitted for the
Proceedings of the 3rd International Symposium on Aero Aqua Bio-Mechanisms
CISABMEC 2006) held July 3-7, 2006, in Okinawa, Japan. ISABMEC 2006 was
organized by The Study Group of Aero Aqua Bio-Mechanisms (ABMECH) in
Japan, seeking to provide a common forum for interdisciplinary discussions be-
tween biologists and engineers on natural autonomous systems and locomotion
mechanisms, particularly swimming and flying, in animals ranging from flagellate
microorganisms to marine mammals. This book follows Bio-mechanisms of Ani-
mals in Swimming and Flying that was published by Springer in 2004 as a collec-
tion of papers originally submitted for the Proceedings of the 2nd International
Symposium on Aqua Bio-Mechanisms GSABMEC 2003).
In 1997, ABMECH was established in Japan. The goals of the group are, first,
to understand the mechanisms that enable flying and swimming animals to move
effectively and efficiently in their environments, and second, to reveal the charac-
teristics of their structures, functions, and behaviors. Based on this information we
plan to develop novel machines and vehicles that mimic or simulate natural mo-
tions in environmentally benign ways. To encourage broad participation in these
interdisciplinary fields of basic science and applied engineering, ABMECH or-
ganized the Ist and the 2nd International Symposia on Aqua Bio-Mechanisms in
Honolulu in 2000 and 2003, respectively, and the 3rd International Symposium on
Aero Aqua Bio-Mechanisms in Okinawa in 2006. “Aqua Bio-Mechanisms” was
renamed “Aero Aqua Bio-Mechanism” in the hopes of further expanding our
group to include those studying various types of organisms and mechanical de-
vices under aerodynamic circumstances.
This book, with 31 chapters, covers the following four major topics: 1) the
biological aspects of locomotive mechanisms and behaviors of animals while
swimming and flying, ranging from microorganisms to dolphins; 2) the hydrody-
namics of swimming and flying; 3) biomimetic swimming or flying robots; and 4)
sports science.

--- Page 6 ---
VI
The first topic includes 11 chapters. Chapters 1 to 4 deal with microorganisms,
Chapters 5 to 10 with fishes, and Chapter 11 with flying insects. The book begins
with observations and numerical analysis of asymmetric swimming motion of sin-
gly flagellated bacteria near a rigid surface. Chapter 2 deals with rheological and
diffusive properties of a suspension of microorganisms both experimentally and
numerically following interactions between two swimming microorganisms.
Chapter 3 discusses dynamics modeling and real-time observation of galvanotaxis
in microorganisms. Chapter 4 describes a phototaxis-based motion control system
for Euglena by using a blue laser and galvano scanners. Motion of a huge group of
Euglena was controlled to manipulate objects. Chapter 5 focuses on passive
mechanisms of posture and trajectory control in swimming fishes, showing com-
parative studies of swimming biomechanics and hydrodynamics, based on obser-
vations of tetraodontiform fishes. Chapter 6 investigates the effect of caudal fin
behavior resulting from a caudal skeletal structure on propulsive performance,
considering the interaction between the mechanical properties on the caudal fin
and the hydrodynamic forces acting on the caudal fin. Chapter 7 describes the
analysis of artificial tail flukes for a bottlenose dolphin that lost most or part of its
tail flukes by disease, and the field tests that showed the dolphin was able to swim
as before with the help of the artificial tail flukes. Chapter 8 investigates drag re-
duction of an angled wavy silicon-rubber in turbulent flow by experiments show-
ing the time-averaged wall shear stress is lower than that in the case of the flat
plate. Chapter 9 reviews the neuronal activities of the nucleus of the medial longi-
tudinal fasciculus (Nflm) during swimming, the connections between Nflm neu-
rons and neurons in spinal CPGs, and the cytoarchitecture of Nflm neurons, in-
cluding their shapes, numbers, and distributions. It also attempts to identify the
cerebellar efferent neurons and their transmitters and relationships with Purkinje
cells using retrograde labeling and immunohistochemical techniques. Chapter 10
analyzes the biosonar of porpoises by a miniature stereo acoustic data logger and
demonstrates that these animals inspect the area ahead of them before swimming
silently into it. Chapter 11 investigates the microstructure of honeybees to clarify
the indirect flight mechanism from the viewpoint of the resonance model.
The second topic deals with hydrodynamics of swimming and flying, includ-
ing three chapters on fishes and three on insects. Chapter 12 reviews some typical
work, including measurement on kinematics of free-swimming fish and prediction
of dynamics acting on an arbitrarily deformable body, numerical and experimental
simulations of flow over flapping and traveling wavy bodies, and theoretical mod-
eling and analysis on flow around a waving plate and a flapping plate. Chapter 13
deals with optimization of fish shape and swim mode in fully resolved
two-dimensional (2-D) flow fields around the moving 2-D fish swimming by un-
dulatory motion propagating from head to tail tip by genetic algorithm facilitated
by an efficient prediction method of target functions. Chapter 14 presents a com-
putational framework for the modeling, simulation, and evolutionary optimization
of anguilliform swimmers. The hydrodynamics of anguilliform swimming was
investigated by solving the 3-D Navier-Stokes equations of incompressible flow

--- Page 7 ---
VII
past a self-propelled body. An inverse design procedure was employed in order to
identify optimal swimming behavior. Chapter 15 deals with Reynolds number de-
pendence of unsteady aerodynamics in a flapping-flying insect by using a
rmulti-block- and overset-grid-based CFD solver with special emphasis on the
structure of leading-edge vortex and spanwise flow. Chapter 16 investigates the
stabilization of flapping-of-wings flight of a butterfly through derivation of a dy-
namics model and simulator construction, experimental measurement of butterfly
motions and aerodynamic forces, and discussions for the stable flapping-of-wings
flight through simulations. Chapter 17 describes computational investigations on
the unsteady aerodynamic performance of a swimming tuna with an oscillating
caudal fin, the flapping flight of the fruit fly and a pectoral fin swimmer, the bird
wrasse, to incorporate those into the design of unmanned underwater and un-
manned air vehicles.
The third topic deals with biomimetic swimming robots and flying ones, and
includes seven chapters on biomimetic swimming robots and two on biomimetic
flying robots. Chapter 18 describes the design and kinematic simulations of a vir-
tual fishlike robot actuated by a fish’s superficial red muscle model. The physical
and kinematic parameters of the specimen of Chinese sturgeon were examined to
design the virtual fishlike robot. Chapter 19 shows the investigation of the propul-
sion mechanism of a fish both by computational fluid dynamics analysis and
measurement of flow field by particle image velocimetry, and the development of
fish robots powered by polymer electrolyte fuel cells (PEFCs) with the help of a
genetic algorithm for better swimming performance. Chapter 20 describes the de-
sign for control of a biomimetic robot fish equipped with a caudal fin with one
degree of freedom (DOF) as a main propulsor, a pair of pectoral fins with one
DOF for each for auxiliary locomotion, and an artificial swim bladder for ascend-
ing and descending. Chapter 21 describes the development of a propulsion
mechanism in fluid using a fin with a variable-bending-stiffness fin for which
stiffness can be changed dynamically, and the thrust force characteristics. Chapter
22 deals with development of two types of elastic pectoral fins for biomimetic
underwater vehicles, and the numerical and experimental analyses of those dy-
namic behaviors in air by FEM and in water, respectively. One is composed of
silicone with three built-in FMAs (flexible micro actuators) and is actively con-
trolled. The other is composed of silicone rubber with grooves and is passively
controlled. Chapter 23 describes the design, construction, and testing of a biomi-
metic pectoral fin with actively controlled curvature for underwater vehicles. It
also describes the design and development of a vehicle that incorporates the fins
using computational fluid dynamics and the design of a control system for vertical
plane motion. Chapter 24 deals with electronic nervous systems composed of
analog and computed neurons and synapses for biomimetic robots based on
neurobiological model systems, the lobster and the lamprey, instead of finite state
systems based on the organizational principles of the animal model nervous sys-
tems. Chapters 25 and 26 deal with biomimetic flying robots. Chapter 25 describes
the development of a micro wind energy converter using insect wings with com-

--- Page 8 ---
Vill
parison of the performance using artificial wings. Chapter 26 describes the devel-
opment and flight of an insect-size clapping micro air vehicle (MAV), making use
of the “Weis-Fogh clap and fling mechanism” that increases the efficiencies for
generating the axial thrust and the lift of MAV.
The book moves on to the final topic to discuss the locomotive mechanisms in
sports, with five chapters. Chapter 27 describes applications of a vortex element
method providing a Lagrangian simulation of unsteady and vertical flows around a
100-m runner and a ski jumper. Chapter 28 shows computational fluid dynamics
simulation of the rowing motion of a single scull comparing with in-situ experi-
ments. Chapter 29 analyzes breast, back, and butterfly strokes using a swimming
human simulation model from the viewpoint of propulsive efficiency. Chapter 30
experimentally investigates the effect of the palm of a hand on the characteristics
of lift and drag forces in freestyle swimming. The results show that the character-
istics of hand palms in swimming are similar to those of delta wings. The last
chapter describes the development of a measurement system of flexural vibration
of a ski jumper in flight, and the measurement of the vibration that is not subject
to fluid dynamics simulation using rigid bodies.
We hope that this book will promote exchanges of ideas between biologists
and engineers for further collaboration on natural autonomous systems and loco-
motion mechanisms of animals used in swimming and flying.
Naomi Kato
Shinji Kamimura
May 2007

--- Page 9 ---
IX
Acknowledgments
The editors thank the following researchers for reviewing the chapters of this book.
Each chapter was assessed by two reviewers,
Y. Doi, F. Fish, Y. Hagiwara, K. Isogai, S. Ito, A. Itoh, K.D. Jones, J.D. Eldredge,
A.J. Ijspeert, K. Kamemoto, T. Kajishima, R. Kanzaki, Y. Kawamura,
T. Kinoshita, S$. Kobayashi, A. Konno, S. Kudo, G.V. Lauder, H. Liu, X.-Y. Lu,
M.S. Gordon, T. Goto, Y. Magariyama, H. Miyake, H. Morikawa, T. Murayama,
M. Nakashima, T. Nomura, Y. Oda, Y. Ohgi, H. Rikimaru, W. Sandberg,
K. Senda, K. Seo, W. Shyy, 8. Sudo, H. Suzuki, H. Takagi, Y. Toda, K. Uematsu,
I. Yamamoto, and M. Watanabe.

--- Page 10 ---
Contents
PLOLACC oe ceccccccecsscccsceesescensceensenesssreresecesssessecescseneeecesssasaseeuseseseesseseseusasees
Acknowledgment ..0..0c cc cccccsseessseessesseeccsceaeeseastecaseassacacnsesasannerecenenseeeas
Part 1: Biological Aspects of Locomotive Mechanisms and
Behaviors of Animals While Swimming and Flying
Chapter 1
Asymmetric Swimming Motion of Singly Flagellated Bacteria
near a Rigid Surface
T. GoTo, S. Kubo, and Y. MAGARIVAMA ..c.ccceccesseesesecsescessesceescesssceeseeenenees
Chapter 2
Properties of a Semi-dilute Suspension of Swimming
Micro-organisms
T. IsHikawa, T. YAMAGUCHI, and T.J. PEDLEY ....cccccccccccccessecseretssnseeeneneerees
Chapter 3
Dynamics Modeling and Real-time Observation of Galvanotaxis
in Paramecium caudatum
N. Ocawa, H. Oxu, K. HAsHimoTo, and M. ISHIKAWA .....ccccccceseescseeceerreeeees
Chapter 4
Object Manipulation by a Formation-controlled Euglena Group
A. ITOH and W. TAMURA .....cccsccsccessseceresssseesatecsuecesecsseeecasseenesecsesesseeesseessesenees
Chapter 5
Passive Mechanisms Controlling Posture and Trajectory in
Swimming Fishes
M.S. GORDON, D.V. LAURITZEN, and A.M. WIKTOROWICZ ........cccceccesceees
Chapter 6
Mechanical Properties of the Caudal Fin Resulting from
the Caudal Skeletal Structure of the Bluefin Tuna
H. Morikawa, K. Yusa, and S, KOBAYASHI ......cccccccssscsseccssnscsecssseverenecsesees
Chapter 7
Design of Artificial Tail Flukes for a Bottlenose Dolphin
W. SEKI, S. Kato, 8. Sarro, and T. YOKOIL ....cccceccecceeseceeceesecseesscseseeresaseeaes
XI

--- Page 11 ---
Xi
Chapter 8
Changes in Drag Acting on an Angled Wavy Silicon-rubber Plate
as a Model of the Skin Folds of a Swimming Dolphin
H. ZHANG, N. YOSHITAKE, and Y. HAGIWARA vo... cccescesssccsscseecceaccecnesesesereraees
Chapter 9
Central Nervous System Underlying Fish Swimming [A review]
K.. UEMATSU 2... .cccccecececsescececsnevevsrevecssscecscsuececsaueesesssescsuecessnessssssecennesensaseeesesens
Chapter 10
Underwater Acoustical Sensing Behavior of Porpoises
T. Akamatsu, D, Wana, K. WANG, and Y. NAITO... 
cee ecceceteccsseencersecseees
Chapter 11
Micro-structural Approach to Developing the Resonance Model
of the Indirect Flight Mechanism
H. MIYAKE occ ccccccccecccscecsccsseeecstessscesscesnenenseecerecsensesnensascessesneeseeeessccsaseseeaeerees®
Part 2: Hydrodynamics of Swimming and Flying
Chapter 12
Studies of Hydrodynamics in Fishlike Swimming Propulsion
XY, Lu, X.-Z. Yin, and B.-G. TONG... 
cecccccecccscscecesessesessscesesseassenseareeneenes
Chapter 13
Optimisation of Fish Shape and Swim Mode in Fully Resolved
2-D Flow Field by Genetic Algorithm with the Least Square
Prediction Method
S. TAKEUCHI, S. Kusupa, and T. KANSHIMA .........ccccccccecescecessceceeestseesseeeessreeers
Chapter 14
Modeling, Simulation and Optimization of Anguilliform Swimmers
S. Kern, P. CHATELAIN, and P. KOUMOUTSAKOS u...cccccsscsestseseeressssssesssssserazeree
Chapter 15
A Numerical Study of Hovering Aerodynamics in Flapping
Insect Flight
H. AONO and He LIU ccccccecccccsssssssesssssessececcasssecsseeseseeseasensesessetesseseeeseceneseas
Chapter 16
Stabilization of Flapping-of-Wings Flight of a Butterfly,
Considering Wakes
K. Senna, M. Sawamoro, M. Kitamura, and T. TANAKA ......ccccesseenseeeeneereee

--- Page 12 ---
Chapter 17
3-D Unsteady Computations of Flapping Flight in Insects, Fish,
and Unmanned Vehicles
W.C. SANDBERG and R. RAMAMURT) ...cccccccsssesecsesscescesesseceseesseseesessnscensessessess
Part 3: Biomimetic Swimming or Flying Robots
Chapter 18
Design and Simulations of a Virtual Fishlike Robot Actuated by
a Muscle Model
C. Guo atid 2. WANG. ccccccccececsesssesscssssscsesesseesesssescressseseseatseeesaeessesaseseasnees
Chapter 19
Development of Fish Robots Powered by Fuel Cells : Improvement
of Swimming Ability by a Genetic Algorithm and Flow Analysis
by Computational Fluid Dynamics
Y. TAKADA , T. TAMACHI, S. TANINAKA, T. IsHu, K. Eprra,
and T. WAKISAKA.....ccccescesscssessrececsersecsersnseeeracerssesteeecacessessstanesusaesaaevnecates
Chapter 20
Design and Control of Biomimetic Robot Fish FAC-1
C. ZHou, L. WANG, Z. CAO, 8S. WANG, and M. TAN v..ccccccccccceccstecceeesscseveseee
Chapter 21
Thrust Force Characteristics of the Propulsion Mechanism in Fluid
Using a Fin with a Dynamic Variable-Effective-Length Spring
S. Kopayasui, M, NAKABAYASHI, R. Kosayasul, J. Jie,
and H. MORIKAWA wceccssecssccesseseeverscerseesssesessssaeecssssessseascenueevssessseeesesasuaessaves
Chapter 22
Elastic Pectoral Fin Actuators for Biomimetic Underwater
Vehicles
N. Kato, Y, Anno, A. Tomoxazu, H. Suzuki, K. Suzumort,
T. KANDA, S. ENDO vo... cccccccscccsscesnecerneesssensscecsnecssecerseensecesecenseensseesnecsseeseseves
Chapter 23
Design, Development, and Testing of Flapping Fins with Actively
Controlled Curvature for an Unmanned Underwater Vehicle
J. PALMISANO, J. Geper, R. RAMAMURTI, K.-J. Liu, J.J. Couen,
T. MENGESHA, J. Naciri, W. SANDBERG, and B, RATNA ........cccccecceseessereeeeees
Chapter 24
Controlling Biomimetic Underwater Robots With Electronic
Nervous Systems
J. AYERS and N. RULKOV ooo. ccccccccccesceensceesecenececsecensecenesecseesesseesseecatserseesasens
XI
vise 247

--- Page 13 ---
XIV
Chapter 25
Micro-energy Converter Using Insect Wings
S. Supo, K. Nasuimorto, K. Tsuyuki, T. YANo, and M. FUTAMURA ......eeeseeereeee 307
Chapter 26
Clapping-wing Micro Air Vehicle of Insect Size
Y. Kawamura, S. Soupa, S. NisHimoro, and C.P. ELLINGTON... cecccccceeesrenseere 319
Part 4: Sports Science
Chapter 27
Study on the Application of Lagrangian Numerical Simulation to
Fluid Dynamics in Sports Science
K. KamMemoTo, A. Ova, S. Ibo, and T, ARAL oo. cccecccccetesscscesecsesscsererenseeeeees 333
Chapter 28
Rowing Velocity Prediction Program with Estimating Hydrodynamic
Load Acting on an Oar Blade
T. Kinosuira, M. Mryasuita, H. Kopayvasnt, and T. HINO... eeeeecreeeteereee 345
Chapter 29
Analysis of Breast, Back and Butterfly Strokes by the Swimming
Human Simulation Model SWUM
M. NAKASHIMA ...ccscscstccececcesesessccssnrsrasceevavsscacecensacacsssnsatasaeensescassicaceeeenaenenteteeeaenenes 361
Chapter 30
Research in Fluid Dynamical Specification of Hand Palms in
Freestyle Swimming
Chapter 31
Flexural Vibration of a Jump Ski in Flight
A. Suionoya, T. Kopayasui, T. SAuio, K. Ocata, and T. MATSUHASHI ............... 383
Subject Index... 
eee esescesseseveceesceeesesenenensceeceeeacesnesseuenanseeavevacsetavanavssseerenevaes 395

--- Page 14 ---
Part I
Biological Aspects of Locomotive Mechanisms
and Behaviors of Animals
While Swimming and Flying

--- Page 15 ---
Chapter I
Asymmetric Swimming Motion of Singly
Flagellated Bacteria near a Rigid Surface
Tomonobu Goto’, Seishi Kudo”, and Yukio Magariyama’
‘Department of Applied Mathematics and Physics, Faculty of Engineering,
Tottori University, Koyama, Tottori 680-8552, Japan
"Department of Robotics and Bio-mechatronics, Faculty of Engineering, Toin
University of Yokohama, Yokohama 225-8502, Japan
Food Engineering Division, National Food Research Institute, Tsukuba 305-
8642, Japan
Summary. This paper gives an overview of consecutive studies on the asym-
metrical motion of Vibrio alginolyticus cells, which possess a single polar fla-
gellum. Inertial forces are negligible because of the cell size and the motion is
expected to be symmetrical. However, asymmetrical characteristics between
forward and backward motions were observed. The asymmetry observed in
trajectory, swimming speed, and residence time appears only when a cell
swims close to a surface. 
In backward motion, a cell traces circular path,
while in forward motion the cell moves in a straight line. 
The backward
swimming speed is faster than the forward speed. Backward swimming cells
tend to stay close to a surface longer than forward swimming cells do. An ex-
planation for these asymmetrical characteristics is given based on the results
of boundary element analyses of creeping flow around a cell model that con-
sists of a cell body and a rotating flagellum. According to the explanation, the
attitude of a cell relative to a surface produces the asymmetry. The studies
presented here indicate that the fluid-dynamic interaction between bacterial
cells and a surface produces the unexpected asymmetrical motion. 
This
asymmetry may help cells search for preferable states on a surface or to attach
to the surface.
Key words. Bacterial motion, Swimming speed, Trajectory, Asymmetry,
Fluid-dynamic interaction, Boundary element analysis, Creeping flow
1 Introduction
Most bacteria possess the ability to swim in order to seek suitable circum-
stances for reproduction and to evade adversarial conditions. Bacterial cells
are so small (on the order of 1 jim) that it might be assumed that the swim-

--- Page 16 ---
ming motion of these cells is insignificant compared to the motion caused by
the surrounding convective flow. Nevertheless, most bacteria possess organs
for locomotion called flagella. Many other eukaryotic microorganisms also
have locomotion organelles, e.g. cilia, flagella. This suggests that the ability
to swim is essential, even for the microorganisms, because swimming ability
was selected and developed over a long evolutionary process.
Figure | illustrates a schematic bacterial cell, which consists of two no-
ticeable elements. The cell body is a capsule that contains genetic information
and the chemical systems for reproduction, adaptation, locomotion, sensing,
etc. The cell body is the core of the small creature. The other element is the
flagellar filament, which is a helical thin filament made of protein. Unlike the
flagella of eukaryotic cells that contain microtubules and bend by themselves,
the flagella of bacterial cells do not deform actively. Instead, each filament is
driven by a rotary motor (flagellar motor) embedded in the cell body. The ro-
tation of the helical flagellum produces a helical wave within the neighboring
fluid that exerts a reaction force on the filament in the direction opposite to the
wave motion. Thus, the cell is propelled by the reaction force due to the rota-
tion of the flagellum.
A flagellar motor can drive a flagellar filament in either a clockwise (CW)
or counterclockwise (CCW) direction. 
Some bacterial cells such as Vibrio
alginolyticus, which this paper specifically addresses, possess a single left-
handed helix flagellum. When the motor rotates CCW, as seen from the distal
end of the flagellum, the helical wave propagates from the proximal end to the
distal end. As a result, the cell swims with the cell body preceding the flagel-
lum, hereafter called “forward” motion. When the motor rotates CW, the cell
swims in an orientation in which the flagellum pulls the cell body, which is
hereafter called “backward” motion. Some bacterial cells like Salmonella ty-
phimurium and Escherichia coli possess several flagella. Their motion differs
from the singly flagellated bacterial cells and is usually referred to as “run”
and “tumble.” When the motors rotate CCW, the filaments form a helical-
shaped bundle and the cell swims forward. However, these bacteria are inca-
pable of backward motion. When the motors switch their rotational direction
from CCW to CW, the inverted torque induces polymorphic transformations of
the filaments, which result in the dissociation of the bundle. During the proc-
ess, the cell changes its orientation due to fluid forces exerted on each fila-
ment. When the motors rotate CCW again, the cell swims in a different direc-
tion.
Cell body 
Flagallum
< 
Forward 
Fig. 1. Schematic drawing of a bacterial cell.
Backward ——->>-

--- Page 17 ---
The size of a bacterial cell is so small that its swimming motion is gov-
erned by viscous forces rather than inertial forces. The Reynolds number, the
ratio of the inertial forces to the viscous forces, is estimated to be 10°. If the
motor of a singly flagellated bacterial cell changes its rotational direction from
CCW to CW, the cell instantaneously switches its swimming direction. Fur-
thermore, the forward and backward swimming is expected to be symmetrical.
In a highly viscous fluid, the flow is reversible; the direction of flow cannot be
distinguished by only observing the stream lines. If an object moves in one di-
rection and is then moved back along the same path in the opposite direction
to the previous starting position, the total momentum imparted to the
neighboring fluid will be zero and the object will not gain any net momentum.
The actively bending flagella of eukaryotic cells change their shapes between
effective strokes and recovery strokes to generate a net momentum. By con-
trast, the filament of a singly flagellated bacterial cell does not change its
shape between forward and backward motions. Therefore, the cell is expected
to follow the same path as long as there are no disturbances like Brownian
motion.
Despite this assumption, previous experimental works have revealed that
there are asymmetrical characteristics between forward and backward motions
of singly flagellated bacterial cells (Magariyama et al. 2001, Kudo et al. 2005,
Magariyama et al. 2005). These differing characteristics have been observed
in swimming speed and trajectory. 
However, the asymmetrical motion ap-
pears only when the bacterial cell swims close to a surface. In the following
sections of this paper, the experimental results will be described, and an ex-
planation based on fluid dynamics for the cause of this peculiar motion near a
surface will be detailed.
2 Observed asymmetric trajectory
The motion of singly flagellated Vibrio alginolyticus bacterial cells was ob-
served (Kudo et al. 2005). Figure 2 shows a dark-field microscope image of a
cell. The flagellum is attached to one end (pole) of the cell body. The motions
of three strains of V. alginolyticus were compared. Wild type YM4 cells swim
forward and backward according to the rotational direction of the flagellum.
Fig. 2. Dark-field microscope image of
a V. alginolyticus cell.

--- Page 18 ---
YM42 cells almost always swim forward, and NMB102 cells almost always
swim backward (Table 1).
A drop of each cell suspension was sealed between a glass slide and a
cover slip, the distance between which is estimated to be about 7 um. 
The
samples were observed with a high-intensity dark-field microscope, enabling
the flagellum to be observed.
Figure 3(a) shows a typical example of swimming traces for a YM4 cell.
Initially, the cell moves clockwise (the lower part of the trace) and travels
straight in the eleven o’clock direction, then turns counterclockwise. Figure
3(b) is the same trace with a time interval of 0.1 s. In this figure, it is apparent
whether the cell swims forward or backward since the flagellum is clearly
Table 1. Bacterial strains used in this study.
Strain 
Phenotype
YM4 
Wild type
YM42 
Forward swimming
NMB102 
Backward swimming
(b) 
(d) 
(f)
Fig. 3. Typical examples of swimming traces of V. alginolyticus cells observed with a
dark-field microscope. Trace of a wild type cell is shown (a) continuously for 1.2 s
and (b) at 0.1 s intervals. Trace of a smooth-swimming mutant cell is shown (c) con-
tinuously for 0.6 s and (d) at 0.1 s intervals. Trace of an inverse smooth-swimming
mutant cell is shown (e) continuously for 0.7 s and (f) at 0.1 s intervals. The arrows
indicate the swimming direction. From Kudo et al. (2005) with permission.

--- Page 19 ---
shown. During the first and last circular motions, the flagellum precedes the
cell body; hence, the cell moves backward. In straight motion, on the other
hand, the cell swims forward. Figures 3(c) and (d) are the swimming traces of
a YM4? cell, and Figs. 3(e) and (f) are for a NMB102 cell. The differences in
trajectory between forward and backward motions are plainly demonstrated: a
forward swimming cell moves straight and a backward swimming cell moves
circularly.
As mentioned above, the thickness of the liquid layer in this experiment
was about 7 um. Because the size of the cell was around | um, which is com-
parable to its thickness, the cells were likely to be affected by the glass sur-
faces. The influence of a surface on cell motion was investigated by compar-
ing the trajectories of cells swimming near a glass slide with the trajectories of
cells swimming at a distance from a surface. 
In order to do so, a simple
chamber was made. 
Spacers were inserted between the glass slide and the
cover slip so as to make the distance between them about 170 um. 
High-
intensity dark-field microscopy cannot be applied to this thick sample, so in-
verted phase-contrast microscopy was used for observation.
(a) 
(b) 
(c)
‘ 
5 
~
Q Zu, | 
‘, , 
rN
‘
28 .B.um 
|
28 .B.um 
28 .Bum
(d) 
(e) 
0)
——>
ei 
\ 
y Bs
‘ 
28 .B.um 
’
228 .eum 
28 .@um
(i)
Fig. 4. Typical examples of swimming traces of 
alginolyticus cells observed with
an inverted phase-contrast microscope. 
(a)-(c) Wild type cells. 
(d)-(f) Smooth-
swimming mutant cells. (g)-(i) Inverse smooth-swimming mutant cells. (a), (d) and
(g) Cells swimming near slide glasses. (b), (e) and (h) Cells swimming several tens of
micrometers from glass surfaces. (c), (f) and (i) Cells swimming near cover glasses.
The arrows indicate the swimming direction. From Kudo et al. (2005) with permis-
sion.

--- Page 20 ---
Typical examples of the trajectories for YM4 cells are shown in Figs. 4(a)-
(c). The trajectory contains circular motion and straight lines when the cells
swim close to a top or bottom boundary, as shown in Figs. 4(a) and (c), while
the trajectory is a series of straight lines when the cell swims at a distance
from both of the glass surfaces, as shown in Fig. 4(b). Figures 4(d)-(f) indi-
cate that YM42 cells always move in straight lines regardless of their distance
from the surfaces. 
The NMB102 cells draw circular traces when the cells
swim close to a surface, as depicted in Figs. 4(g) and (i). When there is not
surface influence, the ceils move in straight lines (Fig. 4(h)).
These results suggest that asymmetric trajectory appears only when the
cell swims close to a surface. A forward swimming cell moves in straight
lines, while a backward swimming cell curves.
Circular motions have also been reported on bacterial cells with several
flagella. Berg and Turner (1990) described the circular motion of E. coli cells.
The three-dimensional tracking of the bacterial cells showed that circular mo-
tion appears when the cells swim very close to a surface (Frymier et al. 1995).
DiLuzi et al. (2005) demonstrated sorting of cells using branched narrow pas-
sages. 
The motion of bacterial cells with several flagella is referred to as
“run” and “tumble”, or in other words, “forward” and “change directions.”
The asymmetrical characteristics between forward and backward motions are
unique to bacterial cells with a single flagellum.
3 Difference in swimming speed and residence time
3.1 Swimming speed
The difference in forward and backward swimming speed of V. alginolyticus
cells was previously found (Magariyama et al. 2001). The swimming speed of
YM4 cells was measured by a high-intensity dark-field microscopy.
Figures 5(a) and (b) are histograms of the forward and backward swim-
ming speeds, respectively. It is evident from the figures that the backward
swimming speed is faster than the forward swimming speed.
Frequency
w 
-> 
oI
ooo
hm
o
| 
7 
| 
=
ad 
I 
i 
| 
bol
0 
20 
40 
60 
80 
1000 
20 
40 
60 
80 
100
Swimming speed 
(m/s)
oo
Fig. 5. Swimming characteristics of a V. alginolyticus strain, YM4. There were 150
measurements. (a) Histogram of forward swimming speeds. (b) Histogram of back-
ward swimming speeds. From Magariyama et al. (2001) with permission.

--- Page 21 ---
3.2 Residence time
Since the focal depth of a microscope is limited, a bacterial cell appears when
the cell enters a certain thickness layer that is in focus, and disappears when
the cell leaves that layer. Here, the residence time of a cell is defined as the
period in which the cell is in focus.
A suspension of cells was sealed in the simple chamber constructed from a
glass slide, a cover slip and spacers. This sample was observed with an in-
verted phase-contrast microscope. The residence time of three strains of V.
alginolyticus, YM4, YM42, NMB102 were measured (Magariyama 2005).
Figure 6 shows the frequency distributions of the residence time of the
cells swimming the upper (a, b, c), middle (d, e ,f) and lower (g, h, i) layers.
The YM4 cells tend to stay longer within the layer of focus when they are near
either surface (a, g) than when they are in the middle layer. The NMB102
cells display the same tendency (c, f, i). On the other hand, the residence time
of YM42 cells is irrespective of the distance from a surface. 
The residence
time of YM4 and NMB102 swimming close to a surface (a, g, c, i) is longer
than the residence time of YM42 (b, e, h). The residence time of YM4 and
NMB102 swimming in the middle layer (d, f) is as same as the residence time
of YM42 (b, e, h).
150
120
90
60
30
a 
b 
c
tT =0.55 (s) 
tT =0.34 (s) 
T =0.86 (s)
0 
i
, 150
120 
d 
e 
f
tT =0.44 (s) 
tT =0.39 (s) 
tT =0.41 (s)
y
Frequenc
38s
w
co
150
120
90
60
30
g 
h 
i
tT =0.69 (s) 
tT =0.37 (s) 
Lo 
(s)
0 
123 
4 
50 
123 
4 
50 
123 
4 
5
Residence time (s)
Fig. 6. Frequency distribution of residence time. The motions were recorded near the
upper surface (a, b, and c), in the middle (d, e, and f ), and near the base (g, h, and i).
YM4 (a, d, and g), YM42 (b, e, and h), and NMB102 (c, f, and i) were used in this ex-
periment. The bars refer to the measured data. The number of data points is 200 for
each case. Data are not shown in the two left-most columns of each graph, since tra-
jectories that had 20 frames (2/3 s) of residence time were not analyzed. 
The line
represents an exponential function used to fit the measured data. From Magariyama
et al. (2005) with permission.

--- Page 22 ---
10
In summary, backward swimming cells tend to stay close to a surface
longer than forward swimming cells, and this asymmetry between the forward
and backward motions appears only when the cells swim under the influence
of a surface.
4 A fluid-dynamic interpretation for the asymmetrical
motion
4.1 Fluid dynamic interactions between a surface and a cell
When the motor rotates in one direction, the cell body rotates in the opposite
direction, as shown in Fig. 7. If there are no interfering surfaces, these rota-
tions of the flagellum and the cell body do not induce any lateral motion. If
there is a surface, however, the rotational motions of the cell body and the
flagellar filament are both affected by the surface. This explains the difference
between bacterial motion close to a rigid surface and its motion in free space.
The resistive force exerted on the side facing the surface and the force on
the opposite side are different. As a result, a lateral force perpendicular to the
rotational axis and parallel to the surface is exerted on the filament. Another
lateral force in the opposite direction is exerted on the cell body. These two
forces produce a torque around an axis perpendicular to the surface. When the
motor rotates CCW, a clockwise torque is generated as seen from above (from
the plus to minus direction in the z-axis) in the configuration shown in Fig. 7.
Consequently, the bacterium swims along a clockwise trajectory because it is
swimming forward. When the motor rotates CW, the torque is counterclock-
wise, and the bacterium swims backward drawing a counterclockwise trajec-
tory.
The surface affects the drag of the cell body and the propulsive force of
the flagellum along the rotational axis of the motor, as well as the lateral
forces that produce the torque perpendicular to the axis of the motor. The
closer a bacterium is to the surface, the greater the drag and the propulsive
force. It can be assumed that the interaction of the cell body with the surface
will reduce the swimming speed and that the interaction of the filament with
the surface will increase the speed.
The attitude of a cell relative to a rigid surface is another factor that influ-
Fig. 7. Lateral forces exerted on the cell
bodv and the flagellum when the cell
Y 
+ Force 
swims forward.
*C nee
+ Force
z 
CW (Cell body)
. (RON 
--€o)-
Oy (Flagellum)

--- Page 23 ---
11
ences the motion of the cell. If the cell body swims backward toward the sur-
face, the interaction between the flagellar filament and the surface is stronger
than that between the cell body and the surface. 
Thus, both the swimming
speed and the trajectory depend upon the attitude of the cell.
4.2 Numerical simulation
Boundary element analyses (Ramia et al. 1993) were carried out to investigate
the effect of the fluid-dynamic interaction between a bacterial cell and a rigid
surface on the asymmetrical motion illustrated in previous sections by chang-
ing the cell’s distance from a rigid boundary and the attitude of the cell (Goto
et al. 2005). Since the Reynolds number of the flow associated with the mo-
tion of a bacterial cell is very small, it was assumed that the fluid motion is
steady at any instant and is a creeping flow governed by the steady Stokes
equation. The velocities and the angular velocities of the cell body were cal-
culated from the condition that the net force on the whole cell is zero and that
the net torque is also zero. In order to take into account a rigid surface that
produces a no-slip boundary condition, a basic solution derived by Blake
(1971) was adopted.
The dimension of the cell model was determined according to the meas-
ured values of YM4 cells (Goto et al. 2001). The calculations were performed
by changing the pitch angle 9 and the distance d shown in Fig. 8. The veloci-
ties and the angular velocities were obtained for each set of 6 and d. 
The
swimming speed was defined as the velocity in the x direction Ux. The pitch
rate Qy and the yaw rate Qz” were also examined. Here, the yaw rate was de-
fined as the projection of Qz’ to the z direction, as shown in Fig. 8.
The swimming speed Ux, the pitch rate Qy and yaw rate Qz” of the cell
model swimming forward are shown as functions of the pitch angle @ in Fig.
9(a)-(c), respectively. These values are normalized by the absolute values of
the x component of the swimming velocity vector |Uco| and the x component
of the angular velocity vector \Qco| of the model swimming in free space.
Note that, in the coordinate system defined in Fig. 8, the forward swimming
direction is in the negative x direction.
Figure 9(a) shows that the swimming speed is unaffected if the cell swims
at a distance of around ten times the diameter of the cell body (see d/2b=12.5)
Fig. 8. 
Boundary element model applied to a
bacterial cell with a body width of 2b swimming
at a distance d from a wall. The pitch angle 0 is
shown. From Goto et al. (2005) with permission.

--- Page 24 ---
12
°
°
°
= 
= 
@ d/2b=1. 25
—~ 
02 
z: 
4 d2b=25
x 
= 
2p=12 5
x 
= 
Oda
z 
g
o -06
o 
& 
;
om 
-08 
eg
< 
SY 
OWS, OF 
£ 
e
Ee 
4 of —° 8A AAs 88880-0999 2 
= 
o 
4%,
E 
4 
a. 
a
é 
2 
: 
-0.006
-30 
-20 
-10 
0 
10 
20 
30 
-30 
-20 
-10 
0 
10 
20 
30
Pitch angle, 6 (deg.) 
Pitch angle, 
6 (deg.) 
~
0.002
= 
(c)
a 
oO
= 
° 
%,
ie 
02
N 
“
| 5 
004
2
© 
-0.006
ee
= 
0.008 
e
re] 01
30 
20 
10 
0 
10 
20 
30
Pitch angle, 
6 (deg.)
Fig. 9. Swimming speed and rotational rates in forward motion as functions of pitch
angle. 
Parameter d/2b is a measure of the distance from the wall (see Fig. 8). These
data should be inverted with respect to the abscissa for the case of backward motion.
(a) Swimming speed normalized with respect to the swimming speed in free space,
|Uco|. 
(b) Pitch rate normalized using the angular velocity of the cell body in free
space, |Qoo|. (c) Yaw rate. Qz’’ is the projection of Qz’ onto the z axis as defined in
Fig. 8. From Goto et al. (2005) with permission.
from a surface. As the cell approaches a surface, the swimming speed varies
with 8. When the cell swims parallel to the wall, namely 8=0°, the closer to
the wall the cell is swimming, the slower it swims (the smaller the magnitude).
When the cell swims in an orientation such that the flagellum is close to the
wall and the cell body is away from the wall, namely @>0°, the speed in-
creases. Thus, the swimming speed increases either when the cell swims at a
significant distance from the wall or when the flagellar filament interacts with
the wall.
The pitch rate is shown in Fig. 9(b). If the cell swims at a significant dis-
tance from the surface, the pitch rate is independent of 8 and is negligible.
However, if the cell interacts with the wall, the pitch rate decreases almost
proportionally with the pitch angle. Because the pitch rate is the time deriva-
tive of the pitch angle, the negative sign for the proportional constant indicates
that the pitch motion associated with forward swimming has positive damping
and is stable. For backward motion, all of the data will be inverted about the
horizontal axis. Namely, their signs will invert from positive to negative and
from negative to positive. Therefore, the pitch motion is unstable in backward
motion.

--- Page 25 ---
(a) 
Forward
6 
x
: 
_ 
Wall
fs 
grag 
<7 O
oy
ow
(b) 
Departing
Backward
[en OO -
- > Wall
ral
wr ue
(c)
z 
Backward
L: io 
COM re 
S -
=ieee
0 Curve
Approaching
y
[s
Fig. 10. Images of the motion of a bacte-
rium close to a wall. Forward motion is
stable: (a) the cell moves in a straight line
maintaining a fixed distance from the
wall. Backward motion is unstable: (b) the
cell moves in a straight line when depart-
ing the wall, and (c) the cell trajectory is
curved in a counterclockwise sense as
viewed from above when approaching the
wall. From Goto et al. (2005) with per-
mission.
13
The relationship between the yaw rate and the pitch angle is shown in Fig.
9(c). The yaw rate is affected by the pitch angle only when the cell swims
close to the wall and is oriented with the flagellum close to the wall. In such
cases, for forward swimming motion, the yaw rate becomes negative and the
resultant trajectory will curve in a clockwise direction when the motion is ob-
served from above. For backward motion, similar to the pitch rate data, the
signs of all data will be inverted with respect to the horizontal axis. Thus, the
yaw rate becomes positive and the trajectory will curve in a counterclockwise
direction if the motion is observed from above.
Using the numerical results, the image of the motion of the cell model
swimming close to a rigid boundary shown in Fig 10 can be generated:
1. As drawn in Fig. 10(a), since the pitching motion is stable in forward
motion (Fig. 9(b)), the cell model tends to swim parallel to the surface
maintaining a certain distance. 
However, the swimming speed of the
parallel motion is slower than that achieved in free space (Fig. 9(a)).

--- Page 26 ---
14
Significant circular motion is not observed since the yaw rate is
negligible when 6 = 0° (Fig. 9(c)).
2. In backward motion, the pitch motion of the cell model is unstable. The
model is either departing from or approaching the surface.
3. In the departing motion depicted in Fig. 10(b), the cell model motion is
steadily increasing its distance from the surface and is influenced very
little. It swims almost in a straight line (Fig. 9(c), 8<O°) at an average
speed nearly equal to that in free space (Fig. 9(a)).
4. In the approaching motion shown in Fig. 10(c), the interaction between
the flagellar filament and the surface is strong and the average speed is
larger than that achieved in free space because the orientation places the
flagellum close to the wall (Fig. 9(a)). The positive pitch angle induces
rotation in the yaw direction which, in turn, results in a circular trajectory
in the counterclockwise direction when viewed from above (Fig. 9(c),
6>0°).
These diagrammatic representations are consistent, at least qualitatively,
with the circular trajectories observed when the cells swim backward close to
the surface. They are also consistent with the speed in the backward direction
exceeding the speed in the forward direction. Moreover, the results clarify
that the broadness in the residence time distribution for the backward direction
is due to the unstable motion. The approaching cells tend to stay near the wall
longer than the departing cells. Therefore, it is concluded that the observed
asymmetrical characteristics of the motions are primarily caused by fluid-
dynamic interactions between the cell and a rigid boundary when the cell has a
non-parallel attitude relative to the boundary. These representations may be
verified if the pitch angle is experimentally measured in conjunction with the
swimming speed and trajectory, although the direct measurement of the pitch
angle is very difficult.
5 Summary and remarks
This paper addresses the motion of a bacterium with a single polar flagellum
swimming in a liquid medium close to a rigid surface. The unusual character-
istics that appear only when a bacterial cell swims close to a surface were
qualitatively explained as the result of the fluid-dynamic interaction between
the cell and the surface.
These characteristics possibly explain the behavior of the bacterial taxis
around surfaces, which may be animate or inanimate surfaces, or the forma-
tion of bio-films. A simulation suggests that the asymmetrical characteristics
help the bacterial cell efficiently cover a searching area (Magariyama 2005).
When a cell approaches a surface with its flagellum oriented toward the sur-
face, the cell may have a higher tendency to attach to the surface.

--- Page 27 ---
15
In most observations of microorganisms, including bacteria, in a liquid
medium, the medium is sealed between a glass slide and a cover slip. 
The
studies presented here have revealed that the microorganism motion might be
strongly influenced by the existence of such boundaries.
Microorganisms are considered examples of micro-machines. Their exis-
tence provides confirmation that such tiny micro-machines could be con-
structed without violating natural laws. From an engineering point of view,
learning from microorganisms is essential to understanding the mechanism of
swimming, propulsion, sensing, guidance, control, and structures suitable for
the micro-scale realm. The mechanism of asymmetrical motion revealed here
could be applied to build such tiny machines.
This work was partly supported by ISPS.
References
Berg HC, Turner L (1990) Chemotaxis of bacteria in glass capillary arrays., Bio-
phys. J. 58, 919-930,
Blake JR (1971) A note on the image system for a stokeslet in a no-slip boundary.,
Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. 70, 303-310.
DiLuzi WR, Turner L, Mayer M, Garstecki P, Weibel DB, Berg HC, Whitesides
GM (2005) Right thinking bacteria., Nature 435, 1271-1274.
Frymier PD, Ford RM, Berg HC, Cummings PT (1995) Three-dimensional track-
ing of motile bacteria near a solid planar surface. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
92, 6195-6199.
Goto T, Masuda S$, Terada K, Takano Y (2001) Comparison between observation
and boundary element analysis of bacterium swimming motion., JSME Int. J.
Ser. C 44, 958-963.
Goto T, Nakata K, Baba K, Nishimura M, Magariyama Y (2005) A fluid-dynamic
interpretation of the asymmetric motion of singly flagellated bacteria swim-
ming close to a boundary., Biophys. J. 89, 3771-3779.
Kudo S, Imai N, Nishitoba M, Sugiyama S, Magariyama Y (2005) Asymmetric
swimming pattern of Vibrio alginolyticus cells with single polar flagella., Mi-
crobiol. Lett. 242, 221-225.
Magariyama Y, Masuda S, Takano Y, Ohtani T, Kudo S (2001) Difference be-
tween forward and backward swimming speeds of the single polar-flagellated
bacterium, Vibrio alginolyticus., FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 205, 343-347.
Magariyama Y, Ichiba M, Nakata K, Baba K, Ohtani T, Kudo S, Goto T (2005)
Difference in bacterial motion between forward and backward swimming
caused by the wall effect., Biophys. J. 88, 3648-3658.
Ramia MD, Tullok L, Phan-Thien N (1993) The role of hydrodynamic interaction
in the locomotion of microorganisms., Biophys. J. 65, 755-778.

--- Page 28 ---
Chapter 2
Properties of a Semi-dilute Suspension of
Swimming Micro-organisms
Takuji Ishikawa’, Takami Yamaguchi’, and T. J. Pedley*
' Department of Bioengineering and Robotics, Tohoku University,
6-6-01, Aoba, Aramaki, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8579, Japan
* Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics,
University of Cambridge,
CMS, Wilberforce Road, Cambridge CB3 OWA, UK
Summary. In this paper, we review our recent researches on a suspension
of swimming micro-organisms. Firstly, interactions between two swim-
ming micro-organisms are discussed. We introduce our experimental
works using Paramecium caudatum, and numerical works using a
squirmer model. The results show that changes in direction between two
swimming cells are induced mainly by hydrodynamic forces and that bio-
logical interaction is a minor factor. Secondly, the rheological and diffusive
properties of a semi-dilute suspension of squirmers are discussed. We in-
troduce our numerical works and show that a suspension of bottom-heavy
squirmers has strong non-Newtonian properties. We also show that the
spreading of squirmers is correctly described as a diffusive process after a
sufficiently long time, even though all the movements of the squirmers are
deterministically calculated.
Key words. Micro-organism, Suspension, Hydrodynamic Interaction,
Stokesian dynamics, Viscosity, Diffusivity
1 Introduction
A suspension of micro-organisms appears, for instance, in a massive plank-
ton bloom in the ocean, which is an integral part of the oceanic ecosystem.
The phytoplankton absorb CO, from the water, and thus they play an im-
portant role in the global carbon cycle and hence in phenomena such as
global warming. Blooms sometimes cause harmful red tides in coastal re-
gions, which lead to economic damage to fish farms. In the engineering
field, micro-organism suspensions are used for bioreactors to make chemi-
cals and biomass. Therefore, the study of micro-organism behaviour is a
proper subject for scientific investigation.
17

--- Page 29 ---
18
The size of individual micro-organisms is often much smaller than that
of the flow field of interest, so the suspension is modelled as a continuum
in which the variables are volume-averaged quantities. Various continuum
models for suspensions of swimming micro-organisms have also been pro-
posed for the analysis of phenomena such as bioconvection, Pedley &
Kessler (1990) for instance. However, the continuum models proposed so
far are restricted to dilute suspensions, in which cell-cell interactions are
negligible. If one wishes to consider larger cell concentrations, it will be
necessary to consider the interactions between micro-organisms. Then, the
translational-rotational velocity of the micro-organisms, the particle stress
tensor and the diffusion tensor in the continuum model will need to be re-
fined.
In this background, we have investigated the properties of a suspension
of micro-organisms both experimentally and numerically. In this review
paper, we introduce our recent researches on this topic. Two-cell interac-
tions are the basis of many cell interactions. Thus, in chapter 2, interac-
tions between two swimming micro-organisms are discussed. We introduce
our experimental works using Paramecium and numerical work using a
squirmer model. In chapter 3, the continuum quantities, such as the
rheological and diffusive properties, of a semi-dilute suspension of
squirmers are discussed. We introduce our numerical works using a Stoke-
sian-dynamics method.
2 Interaction between two micro-organisms
2.1 Experiments using Paramecium
Biological reactions of a solitary Paramecium cell to mechanical stimula-
tions were investigated by Naitoh and Sugino (1984). Avoiding reactions
occur when a cell bumps against a solid object with its anterior end. The
cell swims backward first, then gyrates about its posterior end, and finally
resumes normal forward locomotion. Escape reactions occur when the
cell's posterior end is mechanically agitated. The cell increases its forward
swimming velocity for a moment, then resumes normal forward locomo-
tion. The change in the swimming motion is regulated by membrane po-
tential charges, because Paramecium cells, as well as other monads, have
no nerves for transmitting stimulative information nor synapses to deter-
mine transmission direction. Machemer (1974) clarified the directional re-
sponses of cilia to membrane potential changes in Paramecium cells.
There are many Ca’’ channels in the anterior end, whereas there are many

--- Page 30 ---
19
K" channels in the posterior end. The locality of ion channels is the essen-
tial mechanism of controlling Paramecium's biological reaction.
Interactions between two Paramecium were investigated by Ishikawa
and Hota (2006). In this section, we briefly introduce the study using P.
caudatum. Microscopic observation showed that the body length of an in-
dividual cell is in the range of approximately 200-250um and the width is
in the range of approximately 40-50um. The swimming speed of an indi-
vidual cell was approximately I1mm/s. The swimming motion of P. cauda-
tum in a free space was not straight, but formed a left spiral. The pitch of
the spiral was approximately 2mm and the width was 0.4mm.
The experimental setup was designed to measure the displacements of
cells in a still fluid between flat plates as shown in figure 1. The experi-
mental setup consisted of a digital video (DV) camera with a x24 mac-
rolens, light sources, and inner and outer dishes. The test fluid was placed
between the top of the outer dish and the bottom of the inner dish. The gap
between the two dishes was about 70um, so that cells could not overlap
three-dimensionally. The test fluid was same as the culture fluid, but the
volume fraction of cells was adjusted to be in the range of about 0.5-1% so
that three-cell interactions rarely occurred.
A typical hydrodynamic interaction, observed in the study is shown in
figure 2. When one cell collides with the anterior end of the other cell, the
two cells tend to swim side by side at first, then move away from each
other with an acute angle, as shown in figure 2. When two cells are ini-
tially facing, they come close to each other at first, then they change their
Digital video camera
Light source 
Light source
é ? 
is 
. :
Outer dish
Inner dish
Test fluid
[
"
Fig.1. Schematics of the experimental apparatus. Test fluid was placed between
the bottom of the inner dish and the top of the outer dish. (Ishikawa and Hota,
2006)

--- Page 31 ---
20
directions slightly in the near field, and finally move away from each
other.
All the cells interactions were classified as hydrodynamic interactions,
avoiding reactions or escape reactions. The total number of interacting
cells recorded in the study was 602 (the total number of cases was 301). It
was found that 84.7% of cells interact hydrodynamically. The ratio of es-
cape reaction was slightly higher than that of avoiding reaction. We could
conclude that the cell-cell interaction was mainly hydrodynamic and that
the biological reaction accounted for a minority of incidents.
\
‘N
4
rd
Fig.2. Sample sequences showing the hydrodynamical interactions when two
swimming P. caudatum experience a near-contact. The time interval between each
sequence is 1/3 sec. Long arrows are added to schematically show cell motion.
Scale bars, 500 um (Ishikawa and Hota, 2006)
2.2 Numerical simulation using a squirmer model
Although we assumed that the experimental data not satisfying the defini-
tion of avoiding reaction nor escape reaction were hydrodynamic interac-
tions, as shown in figure 2, there was no evidence that two cells did not ac-
tively change their swimming motions during the interaction. Thus, we
also performed numerical simulations.
The model micro-organism introduced in this paper (a squirmer) is
used by Ishikawa etal. (2006). A squirmer is assumed to be neutrally
buoyant, because the sedimentation velocity for typical aquatic micro-
organisms is much less than the swimming speed. The centre of buoyancy

--- Page 32 ---
21
of the micro-organism may not coincide with its geometric centre (bottom-
heaviness). The model micro-organism is, therefore, force-free but may
not be torque-free. Swimming speeds of micro-organisms such as P. cauda-
tum range up to several hundred m/s. However, the Reynolds number
based on the swimming speed and the radius of individuals is usually less
than 107, so the flow field around the cells can be assumed to be Stokes
flow with negligible inertia compared to viscous effects. Brownian motion
is usually not taken into account, because typical locomotive cells are too
large for Brownian effects to be important.
The model micro-organism was assumed to propel itself by generating
tangential velocities on its surface. In fact, it is a reasonable model to de-
scribe the locomotion of ciliates, which propel themselves by beating ar-
rays of short hairs (cilia) on their surface in a synchronised way. In
particular, the so-called symplectic metachronal wave, in which the cilia
tips remain close together at all times, employed by Opalina, for instance,
can be modelled simply as the stretching and displacement of the surface
formed by the envelope of these tips.
When there are N cells in an infinite fluid, the Stokes flow field exter-
nal to the cells can be given in integral form as:
1 
N
H(3)— (uO) =—g 
OY | Je—via ad, 
1)
where u is the velocity, J is the Green function, q is the single-layer poten-
tial, and A is the surface of a particle. The parentheses <> indicate the sus-
pension average. The boundary condition is given by
u(x) =U, +0, x(x-x,,)+u 
xed 
(2)
where U,, and Q,, are the translational and rotational velocities of squirmer
m, respectively. x,, is the centre of squirmer m, and u,,, is the squirming
velocity of squirmer m. In order to obtain u,, the velocity field around a
swimming P. caudatum cell was measured by a PIV technique. Velocity
vector was calculated for a time series of images, and approximately
80,000 velocity vectors around a swimming cell were obtained. These vec-
tors were averaged by assuming that the velocity field is axisymmetric and
time-independent. Then the surface velocity, u,, is interpolated from the
surrounding flow field.
The boundary element method was employed to discretize equation
(1). For the computational mesh, a maximum of 590 triangle elements per
particle were generated, and the mesh was finer in the near-contact region.
Time-marching was performed by 4th-order Runge-Kutta schemes. In
simulating hydrodynamic interactions between two squirmers, we assume
that the surface velocity is independent of the distance between the cells.
Sym 
?

--- Page 33 ---
22
Thus, no biological reaction is modelled, and the interaction is purely hy-
drodynamic.
Figure 3 shows the interactions between two squirmers, in which one
squirmer collides with the anterior end of the other. In this case two cells
tend to swim side by side at first, then move away from each other with an
acute angle. This tendency is the same as the experimental results shown in
figure 2. We also performed simulations with various initial conditions,
and found that the hydrodynamic interaction data in the experiments
agreed well with the numerical results and that the interaction was purely
hydrodynamic.
In most of the previous analytical studies on cell-cell interactions
(Guell etal, 1988; Ramia etal, 1993; Nasseri and Phan-Thien, 1997; Jiang
etal, 2002), two cells in close contact were not discussed. (Lega and Pas-
sot, 2003 included an ad hoc interactive force acting between cells, that in
t=0.0 
AQ 
t=3.0
(a) 
t= 0.0 
(b) 
t= 3.0
t=4.5 
t=9.0
a-
00
=s
(c) t= 4.5 
(d) 
t= 9.0
Fig.3. Sequences (a) to (d) showing the hydrodynamic interactions between two
squirmers, where ¢ is the dimensionless time. The orientation vectors of the
squirmers are shown as large arrows on the ellipsoids, and a thin solid line is
added so that one can easily compare the angle between the two squirmers. (Ishi-
kawa and Hota, 2006)

--- Page 34 ---
23
practice is unlikely to exist.) The present results show, however, that the
near-field interaction dramatically changes the orientation of cells. Since
orientation change affects the macroscopic properties of the suspension,
such as the diffusivity, the near-field interaction has to be solved accu-
rately.
3 A semi-dilute suspension of squirmers
3.1 Methods
In the following sections, a squirmer is assumed to have a spherical shape
for simplicity. The surface velocities of a squirmer model was analyzed by
Blake (1971), and we use a simplified version of his equation given by;
2
u,= 2p err so. Pr, 
(3)
© 
“It n(ntl) 
rr
where e is the orientation vector, r is the position vector and r = |r!. P,, is
the nth Legendre polynomial, and B, is the nth mode of the surface squirm-
ing velocity. (see details in Ishikawa etal, 2006)
A sample squirmer, which will be used in the following sections, gen-
erates velocity vectors, relative to a frame of reference in which the
squirmer’s centre is at rest, as shown in figure 4. The orientation vector of
the squirmer is also shown, and the uniform flow of its swimming speed
comes from the far right.
The numerical method for a semi-dilute suspension of squirmers can
be found in Ishikawa and Pedley (2007a), based on the Stokesian-
dynamics method (cf. Brady and Bossis, 1988). In the absence of
Brownian motion and at negligible particle Reynolds number, the equation
of motion for N identical squirmers suspended in a Newtonian solvent
fluid otherwise at rest can be written as;
-RU+F,+F,,. +F,, =9. 
(3)
Here U consists of the translational-rotational velocities of the N particles
evaluated at the squirmer centre. R is the grand resistance matrix, which is
constructed by a pairwise superposition of exact two inert sphere results.
The pairwise additivity is an approximation, but it 1s expected to be justi-
fied if the particle volume fraction is not too large (defining semi-dilute).
F,, is the force-torque due to the squirming motion, which is calculated
from superposition of pairwise interaction between squirmers. F,,, is the
external torques due to the bottom-heaviness. F,,,, is the non-hydrodynamic

--- Page 35 ---
24
interparticle forces introduced in order to avoid the prohibitively small
time step needed to overcome the problem of overlapping particles. To
model a suspension of infinite extent, periodic boundary conditions were
employed.
Fig.4. Velocity vectors relative
to the translational velocity vec-
tor of a squirmer, in which B,/B,
= 5. The orientation vector is
shown as a big arrow.
3.2 Rheological property
The rheological properties of a cell suspension play an important role in
the flow field generated by populations of swimming micro-organisms
(e.g. in bioconvection), which were discussed in Ishikawa and Pedley,
(2005, 2007a). In these studies, the three-dimensional movement of 64
identical squirmers in a simple shear flow field, contained in a cube with
periodic boundary conditions, was computed, for random initial positions
and orientations, by the Stokesian-dynamics method. The instantaneous
positions of the squirmers and their trajectories during one time interval
are shown in figure 5, as an example.
The results for non-bottom-heavy squirmers showed that the squirming
did not have a direct influence on the apparent viscosity. However, it did
change the probability density in configuration space, and thereby caused a
slight decrease in the apparent viscosity at order of c’, where c is the vol-
ume fraction of squirmers.
In the case of bottom-heavy squirmers, on the other hand, the stresslet
generated by the squirming motion directly contributed to the bulk stress at
order of c, and the suspension showed strong non-Newtonian properties.
When the background simple shear flow was directed vertically, the appar-
ent viscosity of the semi-dilute suspension of bottom-heavy squirmers be-
came smaller than that of inert spheres drawn by a dashed line (see figure
6). When the shear flow was horizontal and varied with the vertical coor-

--- Page 36 ---
25
dinate, on the other hand, the apparent viscosity became larger than that of
inert spheres. In addition, significant normal stress differences appeared
for all relative orientations of gravity and the shear flow, in the case of bot-
tom-heavy squirmers.
Fig.5. Instantaneous position of 64 identical squirmers. Solid lines are trajectories
of the squirmers during one time interval. The background simple shear flow is
exerted as shown by the arrows.
1.6
== 142 5et 52
! vertical @ 
°
horizontal 
O
eB 14 
°
st 
ao
2 
fe) 
a
> 
a
= 
1J2- 
a
= 
we
2 
Oo 
eo 
e
S 
r 
_
S 
ao 
°
8 
Ik 
e 
e
0.8 
‘ 
| 
f 
1 
f 
1 
' 
!
1 
i
0 
0.02 
0.04 
0.06 
0.08 
0.1
volume fraction
Fig.6. Apparent viscosity of a semi-dilute suspension of bottom-heavy squirmers.
Where, vertical indicates that the background simple shear flow is directed verti-
cally, whereas horizontal indicates directed horizontally

--- Page 37 ---
26
3.3 Diffusive property
Understanding the diffusive behaviour of swimming micro-organisms is
important in order to obtain a better continuum model for a cell suspen-
sion. The translational diffusivity, which is a measure of the increasing dis-
placements between pairs of particles, can be calculated from the mean
square displacement. If the mean square displacement grows more rapidly
than linearly in time, then the spread is not diffusive (if proportional to r,
it is as if the relative velocity of two squirmers is constant), but if it be-
comes linear in time then the spread is diffusive.
The diffusive property in a suspension of squirmers was discussed in
Ishikawa and Pedley, (2004, 2007b), in which the movement of 27 identi-
cal squirmers in a cubic region of fluid otherwise at rest was computed for
random initial positions and orientations. The instantaneous positions of
the squirmers and their trajectories during five time intervals are shown in
figure 7. It is found that the trajectories of squirmers are not straight, be-
cause the hydrodynamic interaction between squirmers generates transla-
tional-rotational velocities between them.
In the case of non-bottom-heavy squirmers, square displacement of
cells becomes proportional to the time interval as shown in figure 8. The
results indicate that the spreading of squirmers was correctly described as a
diffusive process over a sufficiently long time scale, even though all the
movements of the squirmers were deterministically calculated. Scaling of
the results on the assumption that the squirmer trajectories were unbiassed
random walks was shown to capture some but not all of the main features
of the results.
In the case of bottom-heavy squirmers, the diffusive behaviour in
squirmers' orientations could be described by a biased random walk model,
but only when the effect of hydrodynamic interaction dominated that of the
Fig.7. Instantaneous position of 27
identical squirmers. Solid lines are
trajectories of the squirmers during
five time interval. No background
flow field is imposed.

--- Page 38 ---
27
bottom-heaviness. The spreading of bottom-heavy squirmers in the hori-
zontal directions showed diffusive behaviour, and that in the vertical direc-
tion also did provided that the average upward velocity was subtracted.
The rotational diffusivity in this case, at a volume fraction c = 0.1, was
shown to be at least as large as that previously measured in very dilute
populations of randomly swimming algal cells (Chlamydomonas nivalis).
10°
square 
displacement
time interval
Fig.8. Translational diffusivity of non-bottom-heavy squirmers in a semi-dilute
suspension with c =0.1. Where, lines with slope | and 2 are drawn for comparison.
4 Conclusion
In this paper, we have reviewed our fundamental studies on properties of a
suspension of micro-organisms. Some of the continuum properties, such as
the viscosity and diffusivity, were clarified in a semi-dilute regime. We
expect to expand the present analysis to a denser suspension, which is the
subject of current.
Taking into account biological characteristics in the squirmer model
will be another important challenge. Though the biological reactions were
a minor factor in the particular cell-cell interaction, discussed in section
2.1, they are likely to be important for many types of cell. Also most mi-
cro-organisms show some kinds of taxis, such as geotaxis, phototaxis,
chemotaxis, rheotaxis or magnetotaxis, which dominate the preferred di-
rection of cell's orientation. In order to develop a more realistic model of a
suspension of micro-organisms, one may need to model both hydrody-
namical and biological phenomena.
There are still plenty of unsolved phenomena in a suspension of mi-
cro-organisms. We expect that many researchers will be interested in this

--- Page 39 ---
28
research field and will clarify the natural beauty exhibited by micro-
organisms in suspension in the near future.
This work was partly supported by Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Re-
search (S) 19100008 and Grant-in-Aid for Young Scientists (A) 19686016
by.
References
Blake, J. R. (1971), A spherical envelope approach to ciliary propulsion, J. Fluid
Mech. 46: 199-208
Brady, J. F. and Bossis, G. (1988), Stokesian dynamics, Annu. Rev. Fluid Mech.
20: 111-157
Guell, D. C., Brenner, H., Frankel, R. B., Hartman, H. (1988), Hydrodynamic
forces and band formation in swimming magnetotactic bacteria, J. theor. Biol.
135: 525-542
Ishikawa T, Pedley T. J. (2005), The rheology of a semi-dilute suspension of
swimming cells, Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc. DFD 50: 124
Ishikawa T., Hota M. (2006), Interaction of two swimming Paramecia, J. Exp.
Biol. 209: 4452-4463
Ishikawa T., Simmonds M. P., Pedley T. J. (2006), Hydrodynamic interaction of
two swimming model micro-organisms, J. Fluid Mech. 568: 119-160
Ishikawa, T. and Pedley, T. J. (2007a), The rheology of a semi-dilute suspension
of swimming model micro-organisms, J. Fluid Mech., in press
Ishikawa, T., Pedley, T. J. (2007b), Diffusion of swimming model micro-
organisms in a semi-dilute suspension, J. Fluid Mech., in press
Jiang, H., Osborn, T. R., Meneveau, C. (2002), Hydrodynamic interaction between
two copepods: a numerical study, J. Plank. Res. 24: 235-253
Lega, J., Passot, T. (2003), Hydrodynamics of bacterial colonies, Phys. Rev. 67:
1906
Machemer, H (1974), Frequency and directional responses of cilia to membrane
potential changes in Paramecium, J. Comp. Physiol. 92: 293-316
Naitoh, Y., Sugino, K. (1984), Ciliary movement and its control in Paramecium, J.
Protozool. 31: 31-40
Nasseri, S., Phan-Thien, N. (1997), Hydrodynamic interaction between two
nearby swimming micromachines, Computational Mechanics 20: 551-559
Ramia, M., Tullock, D. L., Phan-Thien, N. (1993), The role of hydrodynamic in-
teraction in the locomotion of microorganisms, Biophysical J. 65: 755-778
Pedley, T. J., Kessler, J. O. (1990), A new continuum model for suspensions of
gyrotactic micro-organisms, J. Fluid Mech. 212: 155-182
Pedley, T. J., Ishikawa, T. (2004), Diffusion of swimming model micro-organisms
in a semi-dilute suspension, Bull. Amer. Phys. Soc. DFD 49: 142

--- Page 40 ---
Chapter 3
Dynamics Modeling and Real-time Observation
of Galvanotaxis in Paramecium caudatum
Naoko Ogawa! ?, Hiromasa Oku!, Koichi Hashimoto’,
and Masatoshi Ishikawa!
' Graduate School of Information Science and Technology, University of
Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan
* Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, 8 Ichibancho, Chiyoda-ku,
Tokyo 102-8472, Japan
3 Graduate School of Information Sciences, Tohoku University, 6-6-01
Aza Aoba, Aramaki, Aoba-ku, Sendai-shi 980-8579, Japan
Summary. Paramecium caudatum, a kind of ciliates, exhibits very strong
galvanotaxis; when a DC electric field is applied, cells are made to swim
toward the cathode. In this article, we propose a novel physical scheme
for Paramecium galvanotaxis to provide a quantitative explanation, using a
bottom-up approach based on systems theory. We analytically derived the
torque produced with respect to the cell angle and constructed equations
of translational and rotational motion. Using the proposed model, we per-
formed numerical simulations. We also performed a preliminary evaluation
of the proposed model by using real data. Experimental data were obtained
by using a real-time galvanotaxis observation system developed in our lab-
oratory. We found that the simulated data was approximately in agreement
with the experimental results. 
[Arranged from (Ogawa et al. 2005) and
(Ogawa et al. 2006)]
Key Words. Paramecium, galvanotaxis, dynamics model, tracking, mi-
croorganism
1 
Introduction
Paramecium caudatum, a kind of ciliates, exhibits very strong galvanotaxis,
a behavioral response to an electrical stimulus; when a DC electric field is
applied, cells can be made to swim toward the cathode. Pioneers in this
field of microbiology found that it is caused by a change in direction of the
ciliary beating (Ludloff 1895), which is called the Ludloff phenomenon.
However, there has been almost no quantitative discussion of the physical
relationship between the microscopic ciliary beating pattern and the macro-
scopic behavior of a cell. Although several properties of Paramecium cells
29

--- Page 41 ---
30
have been modeled (Jahn 1961; Cooper and Schliwa 1985), conventional
models have mainly been physiological and biochemical ones, ignoring the
physical properties. Moreover, the few physical models that have been pre-
sented have tended to disregard galvanotaxis. One rare physical model of
galvanotaxis is that constructed by Roberts (Roberts 1970); however, its
validity is uncertain because his assumptions were rough, and the accu-
racy of his model was not fully verified by comparing it with experimental
data. Here in this article, we present a first attempt to construct a physical
model of Paramecium galvanotaxis based on mechanics using a bottom-up
approach, accompanied by experimental validation.
2 
Dynamics Model of Paramecium Galvanotaxis
2.1 
Paramecium and Its Galvanotaxis
In this article, we consider Paramecium caudatum because it has been ex-
tensively studied and its behavior is well known. P. caudatum is a unicel-
lular protozoan with an ellipsoidal shape. It swims by waving cilia on its
body; thousands of cilia beat the water backward to yield a forward reac-
tion force (Naitoh and Sugino 1984). When an external electrical stimulus
is applied, it modifies the membrane potential and alters the ciliary move-
ments, thus affecting the cell motion. Viewed macroscopically, the cell is
made to swim toward the cathode. This phenomenon is called negative
galvanotaxis.
A Paramecium cell in an electric field shows a characteristic ciliary move-
ment pattern. Assume an imaginary plane perpendicular to the electric field
and located near the center of the cell, slightly closer to the cathodal end,
dividing the cell into two parts, as illustrated in Fig. 1. The electric field
causes cilia on the anodal end to beat more frequently (ciliary augmenta-
tion) (Kamada 1929), and the cilia on the cathodal end also beat more fre-
quently but in the opposite direction (ciliary reversal) (Ludloff 1895). This
is called the Ludloff phenomenon, and it provides a simple and qualita-
tive explanation for galvanotaxis: the asymmetry in direction of the ciliary
beatings generates a rotational force and orients the cell toward the cath-
ode. Several previous works have reported existence of substantial bound-
ary (Ludloff 1895; Statkewitsch 1903; Jennings 1923; Kamada 1931), and
we also confirmed it in our wet experiments. The deviation of the boundary
to the cathode is considered to be due to interaction between the medium
and the negative resting potential of the cell (Gortz 1988).

--- Page 42 ---
31
Boundary
a 
. 
Plane
Ciliary Augmentation 
Ciliary Reversal
Cathode
Fig. 1. Qualitative explanation for galvanotaxis. Reproduced from Ogawa et al.
2006 with permission.
Based on electrochemical and electrophysiological knowledge (Jahn 1961;
Cooper and Schliwa 1985), the mechanism of the Ludloff phenomenon can
be understood to be a combination of electrochemical, physiological, and
physical factors. This article concentrates on physical factors, while regard-
ing electrochemical and physiological factors as “black boxes”.
2.2 
Assumptions
By making several assumptions focusing only on those properties that are
essential and dominant in galvanotaxis (Ogawa et al. 2006), we can describe
the cell motion in a two-dimensional plane including the cell axis and the
electric field vector. Hereafter, we consider cell motion only in this plane.
We define a global coordinate system (X,Y) and a local coordinate sys-
tem (x,y) on the plane, as shown in Fig. 2. The global coordinate system
is fixed with respect to the external world, with the X-axis parallel to the
electric field 
E. 
Let @ be the angle of the cell axis in the global coordi-
nate system (@ < 0 in Fig. 2(a), for the sake of convenience in deriving the
model). The local coordinate system is fixed with respect to the cell.
Let the cell shape be an ellipsoid & with a major axis of length 2Z and
a minor axis of length 2R. We assume that cilia are distributed uniformly
around the edge of the ellipsoid with linear density n. In the presence of an
electric field, imagine a plane perpendicular to the field (hereinafter referred
to as “a boundary plane”). The shortest distance between the plane and the
center of the cell is defined as /. The propulsion force yielded by one cilium
is assumed to be fo in the absence of an electric field. In the presence of an
electric field E, the force increases to f = (1+ BE) fo, where B is a positive
parameter.

--- Page 43 ---
32
O; 
x
(a)
(b)
Fig. 2. (a) The global coordinate system (X, Y) and (b) the local coordinate system
(x,y). Reproduced from Ogawa et al. 2006 with permission.
2.3 
Model of the Torque
The phenomenon whereby a Paramecium cell swims toward the cathode is
due to a torque caused by asymmetry of ciliary motion. In this section, we
estimate this torque. Note that the following model is defined only if E 40.
First, consider an ellipsoid & in the local coordinate system (x,y), as il-
lustrated in Fig. 2(b). In the substantially trapezoidal region formed by the
intersection of the boundary plane and the ellipsoid shown as the hatched
region in Fig. 2(b), beating direction of cilia on both sides differ, thus caus-
ing asymmetry in forces. The forces generated by the cilia on the cell other
than the region do not contribute to the torque generation. Thus, we have
only to consider the forces generated at this hatched region.
For convenience, let us introduce @ = —@ as the angle of the electric field
E in the local coordinate system.
Because it would be too complicated to consider the individual minute
forces generated by each cilium, here we focus on the resultant forces for
simplicity. We set sites of action, P(xa,ya) and P2(x%a,—ya), at the mid-
points of the sides of the trapezoid and assume the directions of the forces
—>
to be tangential to the ellipsoid. We then define position vectors, rj = OP;
and rz = OP). Next, let us suppose that the magnitude of the resultant force
is proportional to the “height” of the trapezoid w, which is a signed value
of the same sign as 6. Then, the propelling forces F; and F2 at the points
P, and P», respectively, are represented by F,; 
9) = Ffwnmy, 
), where m,
and mz are the unit tangent vectors at P; and P2, and the — symbol indi-
cates the two directions of ciliary beating. Thus, we find the torques at the
points Py; 
9}, namely, T12) =rf1,2} X F¢12}- It should be noted that these

--- Page 44 ---
33
vectors are treated as three-dimensional in calculating cross products. The
total torque rotating the cell body is given by T = 1 + 7. Since its x and
y components are obviously zero, hereafter we call its z component, T,, the
“torque”.
Finally, by substituting @ = —0@, the torque is described in the global
coordinate system as:
ALR? fnsV/ 2c? + R252 — [2
T, 
_ 
,
VLA4 +217 R2c252 + R454 — [2/2 
c2 + R22 
C2
2(@) =
(1)
where s = sing and 
c=cos@. This equation describes the torque generated
in a cell oriented at angle @.
2.4 
Forward Propulsion Force
As mentioned above, only the cilia on the trapezoid contribute to the rota-
tion. Other cilia are responsible for translational propulsion. Considering
that the reversed effective strokes on the cathodal side produce a backward
force, we can derive the magnitude of the force F as:
a jee 
(\Lcos6| > 1), 
(2)
fn(2L—|wl) 
(|Lcos6| <1).
2.5 
Equations of Motion of Paramecium Cell
Using the torque estimated in section 2.3, we now discuss the equations of
motion of the Paramecium cell.
In the micrometer-scale world that paramecia inhabit, the inertial resis-
tance of the fluid is small enough to be negligible, and the viscous resistance
becomes dominant. Hence, we can apply Stokes’ law, derived from the
Navier-Stokes equation by ignoring inertial force. Since a rigorous evalua-
tion of the viscous resistance around an ellipsoid is quite complicated, here
we approximate the viscous force by applying the formula for a sphere as
a substitute. According to Stokes’ law, the force exerted on a sphere with
radius a, moving with velocity v in a viscous fluid is given by F, = 67MAav,
where yl is the viscosity of the fluid. From this equation, the viscous force
around the ellipsoidal cell can be obtained by replacing the radius a by the
cell radius R. Thus, the equation of motion for the translational motion of
the cell can be approximated by MX + DX = F, where X = (X,Y)! is the

--- Page 45 ---
34
cell position (the superscript T means the transposition), F = Fe 
is a for-
ward propulsive force, e = (cos@,sin@)' is a unit vector along the body
axis, D = F,/|X| = 62 uR is the viscous friction coefficient, 
M = pV 
is the
cell mass, p is the cell density, and V = 42LR?/3 is the cell volume.
In addition, the equation of motion for the rotation is given by 6 +D'¢ =
t(@), where J = #M(R* + L*)/5 is the moment of inertia for an ellipsoid,
D! = 5xpL is the viscous friction coefficient, and 6 is a coefficient to
compensate for errors in the model.
Finally, integration of the equations of motion for the translational motion
and the rotational motion leads to the following equations with a notation
common in systems theory:
q = 4q+B(q), 
(3)
00 
1 
0 
0 
0 
0
00 
0 
1 
0 
0 
0
A= 
0 
0 
-—D/M 
0 
0 
0 
B(q) 
= 
(Pcos¢)/M
“100 
0 
-D/M 0 
0 
|°°4)* 1 (Psing)/M
00 
0 
0 
Oo 
1 
0
00 
0 
0 
0 -D'/I 
1(o) 
/I
where q = (X,Y,X,¥,0,@)", and P = 2fn|xq|.
Practically, acceleration terms can be ignored because of the smallness of
the cellsOgawa et al. (2007). In this paper, we included acceleration terms
for accurate description.
3 
Numerical Experiments
We performed some numerical experiments to verify the equations of mo-
tion using numerical analysis software (MATLAB, MathWorks Inc.).
Table 1 shows several physical parameters used in the numerical experi-
ments. We obtained the cell size by observing cells incubated in our labo-
ratory. The value of B, the increase in beating frequency with electric field,
was estimated from the fact that the frequency increased to around 50 Hz
under a stimulation of a few volts per centimeter from the frequency in the
regular state of around 15-20 Hz (Naitoh and Sugino 1984).
The force yielded by cilia per unit length, fn, is still an unknown pa-
rameter. However, our model itself is based on approximation, and a strict
evaluation of fn is not so critical. Hence, we estimated the order of fn by

--- Page 46 ---
35
Table 1. Parameters of the proposed model. Reproduced from Ogawa et al. 2006
with permission.
Parameters 
Values 
Comments
Major cell axis 22 
100um 
our strain
Minor cell axis 2R 
25um 
our strain
Boundary plane offset / 
10um 
(Jennings 1923),
(Kamada 1931)
Viscosity of water Lt 
1.00 x 1073 kg/(ms) 
at 20 °C
Cell density p 
1,000 kg/m? 
same as water
Increase in beating freq. B 
2.00 x 10-3 V~!
using the swimming velocity measured in past experiments. The terminal
velocity of a cell was obtained by substituting X¥ = 0 into the equation of
motion under the conditions @ = 0: X = F/D = efn\xa|g—o/32uUR. Since
x, equals / at @ = 0, we can estimate fn from: fn = 32UR|X|/1. Measure-
ment of the cell velocity by using a high-speed tracking system, described
later in section 4.3, gave a velocity of around 400um/s. Using this value, we
estimated fn to be 4.71 x 107° N/m. In addition, we adjusted the parameter
6 to be 7.5 based on experimental data of the cell trajectories obtained by
our system (Ogawa et al. 2005).
Next, we tested whether our proposed model could exhibit this phenomenon
like real cells.
When an electric field is applied in the direction opposite to the swim-
ming direction of a cell, the cell makes a U-turn motion. We chose this
behavior for the test. Swimming trajectories for cells with eleven differ-
ent initial orientations were calculated. Figure 3 shows all trajectories si-
multaneously. All cells were configured to have the same initial position,
namely, at the origin (0,0), but their initial angles @ differed by intervals
of 30°%—150°, —120°, ..., 150°). An electric field of 5.0 V/cm was applied
along the X-axis. The trajectory of each cell was calculated by solving or-
dinary differential equations. As shown in Fig. 3, all cells starting from the
origin turned toward the cathode, like real cells. It is interesting that real-
istic macroscopic behavior emerged from a microscopic description of the
ciliary motion.
4 
Real-Time Observation System and Wet Experiments
In this section, we describe a novel system for real-time continuous obser-
vation of galvanotaxis using a visual tracking method. With this system,

--- Page 47 ---
36
Start 
| 
Cell
' 
100 BN
° 
cm 
1% 
;
58
< r
° 
150
=) © 450 
°
S| 
-120° 
120
o 
Of
ott 
lL 
J90
-60-30° 0° 30 
: |
1000. 
0 
F000
Y [um]
Fig. 3. Simulation of U-turn motions of cells. Reproduced from Ogawa et al. 2006
with permission.
we verified the validity of the model using these data.
4.1 
Why Tracking?
To realize precise observation of freely swimming cells, it is necessary
to perform continuous observation of rapidly swimming, non-immobilized
cells, to provide a sufficiently large working area, and to perform detailed
observation of a specific cell with high magnification to precisely control its
actuation. We found, however, that most conventional microscope systems
could not satisfy these demands.
To overcome these obstacles, we adopted a specially designed tracking
method. In this article, we mainly use the term “tracking” in the sense that
the camera pursues a target so as to keep it always in the center of the visual
field (sometimes we also call it “lock-on tracking”). As shown in Fig. 4, a
lock-on mechanism can be realized by moving the position of the specimen
on a stage so that the camera always keeps the target at the center.

--- Page 48 ---
37
Microscope
‘—
|
L
~w 
System
View ai
Control
Specimen on XY Stage
Fig. 4. Lock-on tracking scheme. The camera pursues a target so as to keep it
always in the center of the visual field. Reproduced from Ogawa et al. 2005 with
permission. ©2005 IEEE
A 
>
RTOS PC 
1-CPV
Image
Features
Image
Microscope Uy
Torque
Insiniction 
.mg 
Electrodes
Actuator 
P 
-
Position é 
Specimen
Voltage XY Stage
Fig. 5. Experimental set-up of our tracking system. A: Schematic overview of
the system. B: Photograph. C: An example of U-turn motion monitored by our
system. Reproduced from Ogawa et al. 2005 with permission. ©2005 IEEE
4.2 
System Configuration
Our system measures the cell position and angle continuously at a 1-kHz
frame rate, using a high-speed lock-on tracking method. The configuration
of the overall system and its block diagram are illustrated in Fig. 5. An
electrical stimulus is applied to cells swimming in a chamber placed on
an electrical stimulus input device mounted on an XY stage. The stage is
controlled by a high-speed vision system so as to keep a cell in the center of
the field of view. The position and orientation of the cell are calculated from
image features. More details of this system can be found in our previous
work (Ogawa et al. 2005).
The I-CPV vision system (Toyoda et al. 2001) is mounted on an upright
optical microscope (Olympus, BX50WI) and captures dark-field images at
1-kHz frame rate. From the captured images, the I-CPV calculates image
moments and sends them to the PC. They are used for calculating the at-
titude and the position of the target. Figure 5 C shows an example of the

--- Page 49 ---
38
500
Direction of
t=0s 
Electric Field
0 
Ay 
4
\{ 
;
-500 | 
3
an 
4
a 
an 
} 
~
-1000} 
= 
} 
y 
>
te RAS PIF 
ie
-1500- 
are
Y Position 
[um]
-2000)
~ 
in 
oe J awa Visual Field |
2500 
\ ASA 
Sims
3000 
tt 
J
-1500 
-1000 
-500 
0 
500 
1000 
1500 
2000
X Position [um]
(b)
Fig. 6. Example of trajectory and orientation of a cell reconstructed by the real-
time galvanotaxis observation system. Reproduced from Ogawa et al. 2005 with
permission. ©)2005 IEEE
tracked image of a Paramecium cell making a U-turn. The PC controls the
position of the chamber fixed on the XY stage (SMC, LALO0-X070) by
sending instructions to the stage, in order to keep the specimen at the center
of the visual field.
In the electrical stimulus input device, two carbon electrodes of 0.5-mm
diameter are placed 22-mm apart in parallel on a glass slide to allow control
of the electrical stimulus in one direction. The specimen chamber, which is
0.17-mm deep, is placed between the electrodes. The PC provides a voltage
in the range +10 V to the electrodes via a D/A converter board (Interface,
PCI-3310).
The whole system is controlled at a frequency of 1 kHz by the PC running
a real-time OS (800 MHz, ART-Linux). Figure 6 shows an example of the
trajectory and orientation of a swimming Paramecium cell reconstructed
by the real-time galvanotaxis observation system. In this experiment, the
electric field was applied leftward during 0-6 s, then rightward during 6-12
s, and leftward again during 12-18s.
4.3 
Experiment
Experimental data were obtained by high-speed measurement of the re-
sponses of a single cell to an electric field, using the real-time galvanotaxis
observation system. Wild-type P. caudatum cells were cultured at 20-25°C
in a soy flour solution. Cells grown to the logarithmic or stationary phase

--- Page 50 ---
39
ep 
2000 
r 
—
Experimental Data
Simulated Data
ad ee 
Time be ~ 
3
Fig. 7. Comparison between simulated data (left) and experimental data (right) in
the U-turn motion. Only the X-coordinates (positions along the electric field) were
extracted, Experimental and artificial data for three seconds from the application
of a stimulus in six trials are overlaid. Each number indicates a couple of data
sharing the same initial angle. The figure indicates that the simulated data was
approximately in agreement with the experimental results.
(4-10 days after incubation) were collected together with the solution, fil-
tered through a nylon mesh to remove debris, and infused into a chamber.
A DC electric field with a step-like temporal profile rising to 4.1 V/cm was
applied to the cells.
We compared simulated and experimental positions in the U-turn motion.
We extracted positions along the electric field (¥ direction), because X-
disposition is almost independent of fluctuations caused by spiral motions,
which we disregarded.
Figure 7 shows experimental data (right) for three seconds from applica-
tion of a stimulus (reversal of the electric field) in six trials. In the sim-
ulation (left), the initial angle in each trial was set to the same value in
the measured data. The field strength was set to 4.1 V/cm, the same as in
the wet experiment. The figure indicates that the simulated data was ap-
proximately in agreement with the experimental results. A more rigorous
comparison will require three-dimensional tracking (Oku et al. 2006), and
3-D experiments are currently underway in our laboratory.
5 
Conclusion
In this article, we have proposed a physical model of Paramecium galvan-
otaxis using a bottom-up approach to link the microscopic ciliary motion
and the macroscopic behavior of a cell. We investigated the validity of the
model by numerical experiments using a novel observation system.

--- Page 51 ---
40
References
Cooper MS, Schliwa M (1985) Electric and ionic controls of tissue cell
locomotion in DC electric fields. J Neurosci Res 13:223-244
G6rtz HD (Ed) (1988) Paramecium: Springer-Verlag
Jahn TL (1961) The mechanism of ciliary movement. I. Ciliary reversal and
activation by electric current; the Ludloff phenomenon in terms of core
and volume conductors. J Protozool 8:369-380
Jennings HS (1923) Behavior of the Lower Organisms: Columbia Univer-
sity Press
Kamada T (1929) Control of galvanotropism in Paramecium. J Fac Sci Imp
Univ Tokyo, Sect. IV, Zoology 2:123-139
(1931) Polar effect of electric current on the ciliary movements of
Paramecium. J Fac Sci Imp Univ Tokyo, Sect. IV, Zoology 2:285-298
Ludloff K (1895) Untersuchungen tiber den Galvanotropismus. Arch Ges
Physiol 59:525-554
Naitoh Y, Sugino K (1984) Ciliary movement and its control in Parame-
cium. J Protozool. 31:31-40
Ogawa N, Oku H, Hashimoto K, Ishikawa M (2005) Microrobotic visual
control of motile cells using high-speed tracking system. [EEE Trans
Robot 21:704—712
(2006) A physical model for galvanotaxis of paramecium cell. J
Theor Biol 242:314-328
(2007) Trajectory planning of motile cell for microrobotic applica-
tions. J Robot Mech 19:190-197
Oku H, Theodorus, Ishikawa M, Hashimoto K (2006) High-speed autofo-
cusing of a cell using diffraction pattern. Opt Express 14:3952-3960
Roberts AM (1970) Motion of Paramecium in static electric and magnetic
fields. J Theor Biol 27:97—106
Statkewitsch P (1903) Ueber die Wirkung der Inductionsschlage auf einige
Ciliata. Le Physiol Russe 3:1--55
Toyoda H, Mukohzaka N, Nakamura K, Takumi M, Mizuno S, Ishikawa M
(2001) Ims column-parallel vision system coupled with an image inten-
sifier; I-CPV. In: Proc Symp High Speed Photography and Photonics
2001 5-1:, pp 89-92, in Japanese

--- Page 52 ---
Chapter 4
Object Manipulation by a Formation-controlled
Euglena Group
Akitoshi Itoh! and Wataru Tamura”
' Department of Mechanical Engineering, School of Engineering, Tokyo Denki
University, 2-2 Kanda Nishiki-cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8457, Japan
* Graduate School Student, Tokyo Denki University, 2-2 Kanda Nishiki-cho, Chi-
yoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8457, Japan
Summary. This study investigates how to use protist group as huge group of liv-
ing micromachines. Motion control of protist is made by using the orientation
phototaxis of Euglena. Blue laser scanning system is made to form the group of
Euglena. Euglena gather around the blue laser irradiated area. The construction of
the experimental system is that blue laser passed through two galvano-scanners to
make the two dimensional positioning of laser possible, concentrated by a convex
lens and then irradiated into the experimental pool. After that, blue light is attenu-
ated by high cut filter, and recorded by CCD camera with macro lens. Since there
is little response of phototaxis of Euglena, red LED light is used for background
illumination. Experimental results show that this system can make any shape of
Euglena group by gathering along the scanned laser beam by their positive
orientation phototaxis. If the moving speed of the laser beam is under 4y:m/s, Eu-
glena group can follow to the laser. The formed Euglena group can transport
objects by moving its group. The maximum transportation weight force
transported by the Euglena group was about 70nN.
Key words. Micromachine, Micro Cyborg, Micro Manipulation System, Laser
Scanning System and Automatic Motion Control.
1 Introduction
Recently, many studies have been done to investigate the moving mechanisms of
microorganisms to make use of making future micromachines. Typical examples
are studies of bacterial flagellar motor. When we see the recent great results of
biotechnology, however, we can find that almost all of these results are applied the
real biological systems of living things, such as gene manipulation, tissue engi-
neering, etc. Therefore, it is very important to investigate the applicability of bio-
applied mechanical system or mechano-bio fusion system in the micro-mechanical
research field.
As far as the author have known, the idea of using micro organisms as living mi-
cromachines are firstly seen in the paper of R. Fearing et al. (Fearing 1991). They
controlled Paramecium's motion along the square shaped guide route.
4]

--- Page 53 ---
42
The author had the same idea independently with Fearing et al., and made auto-
matic motion control system using negative galvano-taxis of Paramecium. They
succeeded to contro! Paramecium automatically along the star shaped guide route.
They could also rotate 60.5mm micro impeller by using motion controlled Para-
mecium. This result showed that we can use micro organisms as micromachines
(toh 2000).
The author et al. also developed the positioning control system of the downward
flow of bioconvection using Tetrahymena. They can move 20mm span seesaw re-
ciprocatedly by the position controlled downward flow of bioconvection. This is
an example of the shapeless actuation system using huge groups of microorganism
(Itoh et al. 2001).
Negative galvano-taxis was applied in all of these experiments. The taxis of mi-
croorganism, however there are a lot of variety of taxis like phototaxis, magneto-
taxis, thermotaxis, gravitaxis, etc. If we can apply the other taxis to control micro
organisms, we can choose so many varieties of micro organisms to use. From this
point of view, the author et al. also developed the motion control system for mas-
tigophoran using their phototaxis (Itoh 2004). The control method is that a shadow
is made in the strong intensity bright field and a Euglena can be captured into the
shadow by its negative photophobic response. And the position of the Euglena can
be controlled by moving the shadow. The experimental results showed that the po-
sition of the Euglena can be controlled by this system. The flexibility of this sys-
tem, however, is not so high. Therefore, it is necessary to modify the control sys-
tem.
Based on these details, a phototaxis based motion control system for Euglena was
constructed by using a blue laser and galvano scanners. Motion of a huge group of
Euglena was controlled and objects are manipulated by using this Euglena group.
Main results are reported as follows.
2 Experimental System and Specimen
The main features of laser beam are, high density distribution of energy, high di-
rectivity, mono wave length light and coherency. High density energy distribution
and high directivity have advantages for trying various control methods. Laser
light is mono wave length, therefore, if we choose the frequency which is very ef-
fective to Euglena, we can get high response rate of Euglena. Basic biological
study showed that the wave length range between 460 and 500 nm is the most ef-
fective for Euglena (Egans et al. 1975). It was also confirmed by the basic reac-
tion experiment using LED mono wave length light.
Based on these facts, the blue laser of which wave length A=473nm (SmW output,
CrystaLaser Inc. BIOL-005) was used to generate phototaxis. Red LED light
(=644nm) was used for background illumination since the light over 600nm is not
affected to Euglena.
Basic construction of the laser motion control system is depicted in Fig.1. Laser
beam is refracted twice by the mirrors which were positioned by galvano scanners.

--- Page 54 ---
43
They make laser beam positioned in any place in the x-y plane of the experimental
pool. Then, beam was concentrated by the convex lens and irradiated into the ex-
perimental pool. After that, the beam was attenuated by a polarizing filter and a
high cut filter. After attenuation, we can see the experiment by normal CCD cam-
era with x200 macro lens. We cannot see the laser light during experiments.
Therefore, an automatic calibration program was made to make the open-loop po-
sitioning of laser beam possible.
The experimental protists are typical photo-responsive mastigophora, "Euglena
gracilis". The body length of euglena is about 40-50um. A long flagellum is
grown from the front side for a motor organ. The optical sensor of euglena is con-
sidered as an eyespot and a subflagellum body, which are both located at the base
of the flagellum.
(a) External Appearance 
(b) Basic Construction
Fig. 1. Experimental System for Motion Control Experiments
3 Basic Reaction Properties to The Blue Laser
3.1 Reaction Behaviors to The Fixed Laser beam
First, the reaction properties of Euglena to the fixed blue laser spot were exam-
ined. Experimental pool is a shallow pool (0.13mm depth). The top of this pool is
sealed by a cover glass.
The experimental results showed that every Euglena reacted to the fixed laser
beam. There were two types of reaction. (1) Avoiding reaction: When the laser
beam was irradiated to the Euglena, the Euglena turned its swimming direction.

--- Page 55 ---
44
This is the typical Euglena’s negative photophobic response. Fig.2 (a) depicts this
motion. (2)Rotating reaction: When the laser beam was irradiated to the Euglena,
the Euglena started rotating and kept rotating. Fig.2 (b) depicts this motion. This
mechanism is unknown; however, the possibility of continuous avoiding reaction
is very high. The positive orientation phototaxis has not seen when these re-
sponses were observed. This fact seems that the observation magnification is too
high and the energy density distribution is too keen to observe positive reaction.
The results of avoiding reaction and rotating reaction have counter side effects.
Avoiding reaction means “escape”. However, rotating reaction means “capture”.
Therefore, it is very important to predict which reaction will be appeared. It is also
important to predict the turning angle when Euglena shows avoiding reaction.
Therefore, the observation results are summarized and the effect of reacting dis-
tance, reacting direction and laser power were investigated.
x
(a) Avoiding Reaction 
(b) Rotating Reaction
Fig. 2. Response Examples of Euglena to the laser beam
300
200
100
Reaction 
Angle 
(deg.)
OQ
-100
-200
@ 
Rotated Reaction
© 
Avoided Reaction 
O
-300 | 
6 
O
le—_ elo 
b wweele cies
-100 
0 
100
Initial Swimming Angle (deg.)
Fig. 3. Relationship between initial swimming angle and reacted turning angle

--- Page 56 ---
45
The results showed that the turning angles are basically at random, and there is no
correlation among these conditions and turning angles. Fig.3 shows the relation-
ship between initial swimming angle and reacted turning angle. Rotating reaction
was indicated by plotted on 
360 deg area in Fig.3. Therefore, we have to forgive
to predict which reaction may occur.
3.2 Reaction Behaviors to The Scanning Laser beam
Next, the reaction properties of Euglena to the scanning laser beam were exam-
ined. The scanning frequency was varied during 1 - 20 Hz. Basic reactions on
these experiments were, above mentioned avoiding reaction, rotating reaction, no
reaction and swimming along the laser line with spiral rotation. The last reaction
was considered that the rotating reaction was observed from the different (upward
in Fig.2 (b)) angle.
The investigation results showed no correlation. Therefore, it is very difficult to
predict which reaction will be appeared or to predict the turning angle.
The amount of not reacted examples has a correlation to the scanning frequency
and the length of the scanning line. This is corresponded to the probability ratio
that the laser beam is not irradiated to the sensory spot of the Euglena when the
Euglena swims across the scanning laser line.
Above observation experiments showed that the response of Euglena is basically
random, and it is very difficult to control the swimming direction to our aiming di-
rection by irradiating the laser beam. The only possibility is to change the swim-
ming direction from the present swimming direction. Therefore, the control effi-
ciency is worse than the control method using galvano-taxis when we control an
individual cell.
4 Mechanism of The Gathering and The Group Formation
The reaction of Positive phototaxis has not seen in the individual cell level obser-
vations. However, when a laser was irradiated into the high population density
culture media, a gathering and group formation of Euglena was seen in the media.
Fig.4 shows an example. In this experiment, fixed spot laser beam was irradiated
to the high density (2600 cell/mm’) culture medium. This photograph was taken
after 10 minutes irradiation. Therefore, it is necessary for the motion control of
Euglena group to investigate how the Euglena gather and form the group.
Therefore, the influence of cell population density of culture media and the power
of the laser beam on the gathering and group formation process was measured
when a laser spot light is irradiated. Fig.5 summarizes the changes of the density
distribution around the laser spot light through the time passage. First, a ring-
shaped group was formed around the spot laser beam, and then, the high density
area enlarged and beam area was finally covered with Euglena.

--- Page 57 ---
Fig. 4. An example of the Euglena group gathered to the fixed laser beam (Cell
density of the culture medium:2600 cells/mm’ , After 10 minutes laser irradiation)
100
~ 
—@ Initial condition
3 80 
—® 1 minute
~ 
—#- 2 minutes
gS 
—¥* 3 minutes
© 60 
—® 4 minutes
@ 
—O- 5 minutes
2 
+ 6 minutes
g@ 40 
—- 7 minutes
$ 
—~ 8 minutes
wW 20 
—>- 9 minutes
—x- 10 minutes
0 
|
0 
200 
400 
600 
800 
1000
Distance from The Center of The Laser Spot (um)
Fig. 5. Changes of the density distribution around the laser spot light through the
time passage at the population density of 2600 cells/mm’
These group formations are basically by the positive orientation phototaxis of Eu-
glena. However, the reason why we cannot see positive orientation phototaxis at
the individual cell is not clear. Therefore, low density culture media were used for
the next experiments. Fig.6 is an example photograph that was taken after 90 min-
utes irradiation of spot laser beam to the 190 cell/mm? culture medium. The
changes of the density distribution around the laser spot light were also summa-
rized in Fig.7. The results showed that the Euglena group was formed in the final
stage in the case of the low density media, it needs longer time. There is no group
after 10 minutes irradiation. Group formation starts after 30 minutes irradiation.

--- Page 58 ---
47
Fig. 6. An example of the gathering of Euglena to the laser beam at the popula-
tion density of culture medium: 190 cells/mm’, taken after 90 minutes laser irra-
diation
100
—@ Initial condition
S BOL 
—® 10 minutes
& 
4 20 minutes
Oo 
—¥*- 30 minutes
= 60 L 
~—e 40 minutes
wv 
~O- 50 minutes
@ 
~t+ 60 minutes
c 40- 
—*- 70 minutes
2 
—+ 80 minutes
x 20 
—-— 90 minutes
0 
Sn steed
0 
200 
400 
600 
800 
1000 
1200 
1400
Distance from The Center of The Laser Spot (um)
Fig. 7. Changes of the density distribution around the laser spot light through the
time passage at the population density of 190 cells/mm
That is to say, the reasons why we have not observed positive orientation photo-
taxis are these two. (1) Positive orientation phototaxis is a statistic phenomenon
based on the photophobic response, and it needs longer time to go to the comfort-
able illumination intensity area. Therefore, it has not appeared in one reaction on
the above-mentioned observation. (2) The magnification for individual cell reac-
tion is too large and we only observed too near area around the laser. As a result,
the Euglena only showed the negative reaction.
The reason why group formation was accelerated by the population density is con-
sidered as follows. High density media have more probability ratio of collision be-
tween the Euglena that are swimming to the laser by positive phototaxis and that
are swimming against the laser by negative phototaxis. This effect restricted the
swimming course; hence, the group formation was accelerated.

--- Page 59 ---
48
5 Deformation and Transition of Formed Euglena Group
To apply the formed Euglena group, we have to move and deform the group. It is
done by moving the scanning laser beam. If the moving speed of laser beam is too
fast, the Euglena group can not catch up with laser. Therefore, we have to limit the
moving speed of laser irradiation area.
The shape and the condition of the Euglena group to the moving laser spot irradia-
tion were investigated to clarify the limit of the moving speed. The culture media
that the population density is about 2000 cells/mm3 were used for this experiment.
The depth of this experimental pool is also 0.13 mm. The results are shown in
Fig.8. The left side photographs show the condition after the 10 minutes irradia-
tion of spot laser beam to form the Euglena group. The right side photographs
show the results after moving the laser beam to the right down area by the setting
speed. The results show that if the moving speed is under 4mm/s, the Euglena
group can catch up with the transition of laser beam.
(b) Transition speed: 6.49 m/s
(c) Transition speed: 3. 74um/s
Fig. 8. Transition of Euglena group by moving the laser spot beam
(Pool depth: 0.13mm, Population density: 2000 cells/mm* )

--- Page 60 ---
49
Therefore, the deformation of the Euglena group was examined in the next ex-
periments. The method is, first, 
a spot laser was irradiated in the pool. And then,
the spot beam was deformed to the circle shape by controlling the galvano-
scanner. Then the scanning circle line was gradually deformed to the line. Finally,
the scanning line was deformed again to the circle shape. The transition speed is 3
mm/s. Fig.9 shows the continuous photographs from the experimental video im-
age. This result shows that we can generate any shapes of the Euglena group if the
transition speed of laser is under 4 mm/s.
However, to generate the shape of the Euglena group faithfully to the scanning la-
ser, we have to prepare shallow pool (< 0.2mm) and high density culture media (>
1000 cells/mm3). If the experimental pool is too thick, the ground which is not ir-
radiated by laser was covered by the Euglena and it is difficult to distinguish the
shape of the Euglena group.
(a) 
Group formation to the 
(b) Laser beam was deformed
spot laser 
to the circle shape
(c) Circle scanning line was 
(d) Laser beam was deformed again
deformed to the line shape 
to the circle shape
Fig. 9. Deformation of the Euglena group by changing the scanning line of laser
beam 
(Pool depth: 0.13mm, Population density: 2000 cells/mm* )
6 Object Manipulation by Motion Controlled Euglena
Group
Now we can make any shapes of Euglena groups and move them and deform them
at our will by above mentioned technology. Therefore, the possibility whether

--- Page 61 ---
50
these controlled Euglena group can move and manipulate the object or not was in-
vestigated.
If the Euglena group was hit on the object, the unbalanced force from the collision
of so many Euglena to the object might move the object. Therefore, object trans-
porting experiments were done by using spot laser beam and high density culture
media (Population density: 2000 cells/mm’). Fig.10 shows an example. In this ex-
periment, spot laser was moved to the upward direction. If the condition is within
the range, we can manipulate the object by the motion controlled Euglena group.
It is very easy for this experimental system to generate the shape of the Euglena
group that is fit to the target object. Therefore, a line shaped Euglena group was
generated for long rectangle target object. Fig.11 is an example. Object transporta-
tion can be done more stably by fitting the shape of the Euglena group to the target
object.
> 
—. 
x 
a
vs “Sees 
oo 
et
4 
- 
;‘= 
~
y 
€9435%-=>-
(b) After pushing
(a) Before pushing
Fig. 10. 
Object manipulation experiment by position controlled Euglena group
generated by spot laser beam (Object size: 1000x50x18um, Fluorocarbon resin)
Fig. 11. Object manipulation experiment by position controlled Euglena group
generated by Imm line scanned laser beam (Object size: 1000x50x18um,
Fluorocarbon resin)
There is a limitation for the target object that can be moved by this method.
Weight (force to the ground surface of the pool) and shape of the object dominate
it. The densities of metals, such as aluminum or steel, are too large to push. There-
fore, metal cannot be moved by the Euglena group. If the shape is the same to the

--- Page 62 ---
31
object of Fig.10, many of plastic films can be moved by this method, such as
fluorocarbon 
resin, 
polyester, polyimide, 
polypropylene 
and 
polyethylene
terephthalate.
The effect of the friction force and the adsorption force from the bottom surface is
large. Therefore, it is very important to maintain the contact condition. The effect
of the surface tension force is also large. Therefore, if the object is lighter than the
water, sealed type experimental pool is better than the open air type pool.
Basically, the transportation of the object is getting easier as the contacting area to
the Euglena is getting larger, and as the force to the bottom surface of the pool is
getting smaller. In the case of thickness t=18um fluorocarbon resin, this system
can move within 500x500 jm rectangular size object. If the size of the object is
near the limit, the transportation speed decreases and constant transportation be-
comes difficult.
Fig.12 summarizes the results of the object transportation experiments by Euglena
group. In these experiments, the rectangle shaped objects made of fluorocarbon
resin were prepared. The widths of the objects were 1mm constant and the lengths
were varied between 50 and 500 um to change the weights. The population den-
sity of the Euglena solution was 3210 cell/mm’. The Euglena group was formed
by the 500um straight line scanning laser beam and the beam was moved between
0.68 and 6.5 m/s. The results were estimated whether the objects were trans-
ported to the setting distance or not.
It was very difficult to maintain the friction (= shapes of the edge of the trans-
ported object), therefore, the results were varied widely. However, the maximum
transported weight in these experiments was 70nN and the Euglena group can
carry heavier object if the moving speed is slower.
It is necessary to improve the experimental conditions especially the shapes of the
edges of the objects to maintain the friction force to measure the exact force gen-
erated by Euglena group.
120
° 
@ Transportation succeeded
3100 
© Under the setting distance
£ 
00 
6
8 80
Sat
oO
£ 
60
S
® 40
° 
fe]
S 
20 
°
Or 
| 
l 
| 
j 
| 
i 
|
1.0 
2.0 
3.0 
4.0 
5.0 
6.0 
7.8
Scanning speed of the laserbeam 
(um/s)
Fig. 12. Relationship between the moving speed of the scanning laser beam and
the weight of the transported object moved by the line shaped Euglena group

--- Page 63 ---
52
7 Conclusion
Above-mentioned experimental results showed the possibility to use the protozoa
for the living micromanipulators. One meaning, this system is an example of a
shapeless mechanical system. If we need special shape, we can make any desired
shape by gathering Euglena. This is a common dream of micromachine if we con-
sider Euglena as living micromachines.
To the future, three dimensional motion control methods shall be developed. The
application to the industrial field or the medical science has to be investigated.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to their deep gratitude to Prof. Yuji Tsukii of Hosei Uni-
versity for giving them the seed of Euglena. Their deep gratitude is also to those
graduating students, Yoji Toyoda, Takayuki Kawaguchi, Yasuo Kawai, Tetsuro
Mishima, Wataru Sasaki, Hitoshi Yagi and Yoshitaka Matsumoto who joined
them in the experiment and helped the authors.
This work was partially supported by the Research Institute of Technology of To-
kyo Denki University under Grant Q03S-07.
References
Fearing R (1991) Control of a micro-organism as a prototype micro-robot. 2nd
Int. Symp. on Micromachines and Human Sciences. pp 1-15
Itoh A (2000) Motion control of protozoa for bio-mems. IEEE/ASME Trans. on
Mechatronics, vol.5, no.2. pp 181-188
Itoh A, Toida H (2001) Control of bioconvection and its mechanical application.
IEEE/ASME Int. Conf. on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics AIM’01. pp 1220-
1225
Itoh A (2004) Euglena Motion Control by Local Illumination. Kato N, Ayers J,
Morikawa H (Eds.} Bio-mechanism of Swimming and Flying. Chapt.2, Springer-
Verlag Tokyo. pp13-26
Egans J. Jr., Dorsky D, Schiff JA (1975) Plant Physiology. vol.56, pp 318-323

--- Page 64 ---
Chapter 5
Passive Mechanisms Controlling Posture and
Trajectory in Swimming Fishes
Malcolm 8. Gordon, Dean V. Lauritzen, and Alexis M. Wiktorowicz
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Califor-
nia, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1606, USA
Summary. Control of both posture and trajectory are important for swimming
animals. The better controlled their movements are the greater their abilities to
move as necessary.
Mechanisms contributing to posture and trajectory control are either passive
or powered. Passive mechanisms operate automatically and continuously, re-
quiring neither attention nor work. Powered mechanisms derive mainly from
body and fin (or limb) movements. They require active coordination and con-
trol.
This paper focuses on passive mechanisms of posture and trajectory control
in swimming fishes. It summarizes important results of comparative studies of
fish swimming biomechanics, emphasizing our recent observations of four
families of tetraodontiform bony fishes. All species studied are rigid-bodied
multipropulsor swimmers. They are unusually dynamically well controlled
while swimming.
We also discuss possible new insights concerning passive mechanisms of
posture and trajectory control that derive from our work with tetraodontiform
fishes and may also apply in other groups of fishes. Specifically, we consider
possible roles of lateral keels and scutes near or on the caudal peduncles of a
diverse variety of both elasmobranch (sharks) and bony fishes. Similar consid-
erations may also apply to some groups of fossil fishes and to all living spe-
cies of the mammalian cetaceans (porpoises, dolphins, whales).
Key words. fish swimming, posture control, trajectory control, passive
mechanisms, bony fishes, sharks.
1 Introduction
Robust mechanisms for both posture and trajectory control are essential for ac-
tively swimming fishes moving and maneuvering at varying speeds through
variably turbulent waters. The better these fishes can control their body pos-
tures, trajectories, stability and maneuverability the more easily they can move
as they need to.
53

--- Page 65 ---
54
Mechanisms contributing to posture and trajectory control are either passive
or powered. All fishes use varying combinations of both types of mechanisms
while swimming, their relative importance changing continuously as types and
levels of activity vary in response to changing motivational and environmental
conditions. Passtve mechanisms operate automatically and continuously, re-
quiring neither work nor attention by the fish. Powered mechanisms require
coordination and control. The relative quantitative importance of these two
categories of control mechanisms is unknown for all fishes under all condi-
tions.
The diversity of ways available for fishes to achieve high levels of posture
and trajectory control while swimming is so great that analytically manageable
levels of understanding of the patterns and processes used by fishes moving
about in their own environments often elude us. Contributing to this diversity
is the fact that most, if not all, of the morphological and integumentary fea-
tures participating in these control processes are actually multifunctional.
Many of these features also play roles in the generation of other flow-related
phenomena, including directing flows and producing lift, drag, and thrust
(Fish 1998).
Considering separately the passive and powered mechanisms of these con-
trols can reduce this complexity. Fish locomotion generally is an active area
of research; the relevant literature is increasing rapidly. This discussion is not
a comprehensive survey of the broader field. Recent useful review articles in-
clude Weihs (1993, 2002), Webb (1997, 2002, 2006), Lauder and Drucker
(2002, 2004), Drucker and Lauder (2005), Lauder (2006), and Fish and Lauder
(2006).
This paper focuses on passive mechanisms for posture and trajectory con-
trol. 
Passive mechanisms are either internal and static or external and dy-
namic. A widespread internal/static mechanism is the metacentric height dif-
ference between the positions of the centers of mass and centers of buoyancy
within fish bodies (Weihs 1993, 2002; Webb 1997, 2002, 2006). Many, if not
most, fishes are hydrostatically unstable because their centers of buoyancy are
below their centers of mass. This may be the case for both neutrally buoyant
and denser than water species. Reasons for this situation are not well under-
stood, but may relate to maneuverability properties.
External/dynamic mechanisms are based upon uses of hydrodynamic flows
and forces. Hydrodynamically based mechanisms derive mainly from mor-
phological features, including body shapes and sizes and fin placements,
shapes, and sizes (Wilga and Lauder 1999, 2000; Fish and Shannahan 2000;
Gordon et al. 2000; Hove et al. 2001; Bartol et al. 2003, 2005). Integumentary
armoring, ornamentation, and skin compliance properties are also significant
(Brainerd 1994; Gordon et al. 1996; Arreola and Westneat 1996; Plaut and
Chen 2003).
Active control mechanisms derive mainly from patterns of body and fin
movements (Gordon et al. 2000; Walker and Westneat 2002; Walker 2004;

--- Page 66 ---
55
Drucker and Lauder 2005; Lauder 2006; Drucker et al. 2006; Lauder and
Tytell 2006). Fishes swimming in body and caudal fin (BCF) modes use dif-
ferent combinations of active control mechanisms as compared with fishes us-
ing median and paired-fin (MPF) modes. As speed through the water varies,
and as different maneuvers are performed, substantial changes occur in the
frequencies, amplitudes, coordination, and relative phasing of fin movements.
Integrated sets of these variations, occurring consistently within particular
ranges of speed, are recognized as changes in gaits (Alexander 1989; Drucker
1996; Gordon et al. 2000; Hove et al. 2001; Drucker et al. 2006; Lauder and
Tytell 2006). Recent work with trout indicates that at least some subcarangi-
form swimmers may actually be using multipropulsor swimming modes that
are best-termed ‘M-BCF’ gaits (Drucker and Lauder 2005).
This paper emphasizes work done in our laboratory in recent years focused
on the varied passive mechanisms used for posture and trajectory control by
selected tetraodontiform bony fishes. All species studied are rigid-bodied mul-
tipropulsor swimmers that show unusually high levels of control while swim-
ming.
The paper concludes with a discussion of what we consider a plausible ex-
trapolation of some of the principal findings of our work with tetraodontiform
fishes to a wider diversity of other fishes, both elasmobranchs (sharks) and
bony fishes, as well as to the mammalian cetaceans. The widespread, phy-
logenetically sporadic, occurrence of either lateral keels or rows of sharp bony
scutes on and near the caudal peduncles of many groups of fishes probably in-
dicates hitherto unrecognized hydrodynamically significant roles for these
structures. We note that all living cetaceans also have well developed pedun-
cular keels.
2 Materials and Methods
2.1 Fishes and their Morphologies
Tetraodontiform fishes are among the most highly evolved and specialized of
the teleosts (Nelson 2006). We have studied eight representative species be-
longing to four families (Ostraciidae, Aracanidae, Tetraodontidae, Diodonti-
dae). The former two families are comprised of armored fishes having varied
body shapes and an assortment of keels and other ornaments on their bony
carapaces (Fig. 
| A, B). The keels are major sources of passive control forces,
at least in the ostraciids (Bartol et al., 2003, 2005). In the ostraciids the cara-
paces are closed posteriorly to the dorsal and anal fins; they are open posteri-
orly in the aracanids. This small difference results in ostraciids being MPF
swimmers, aracanids BCF swimmers (D.V. Lauritzen, A.M. Wiktorowicz, and
M.S. Gordon unpublished).

--- Page 67 ---
56
bat
as
B
A
4
c
@
=
6
2
ms
yes
Fig. 1. Lateral and frontal photographs of eight species of tetraodontiform
fishes we have studied. (A) Three species of ostraciid fishes [Bartol et al.
(2005)]. 
Top: spotted boxfish (Ostracion meleagris); middle: scrawled
cowfish (Acanthostracion quadricornis); bottom: buffalo trunkfish (Lacto-
phrys trigonus). 
(B) Dimorphic males (left) and females (right) of two
species of aracanid fishes [Lauritzen et al. (in preparation)]. Upper pair:
ornate cowfish (Aracana ornata); lower pair: Shaw’s cowfish (Aracana au-

--- Page 68 ---
37
rita). (C) One species of tetraodontid fish and two species of diodontid
fishes (Wiktorowicz et al. in preparation). 
Top: reticulated puffer
(Arothron reticularis); middle: porcupinefish (Diodon holocanthus); bot-
tom: striped burrfish (Chilomycterus schoepfi).
Another difference between these two families relates to sexual dimor-
phism. In the ostraciids the sexes are very similar in terms of body shapes,
though they may differ markedly in coloration. In the aracanids body shapes
are strongly different between males and females (Fig. 1 B).
The tetraodonts (smooth puffers) and diodonts (spiny puffers) are not ar-
mored. Their body shapes also vary, but within narrower limits than occur in
the armored forms (Fig. 1 C). Their bodies do not have keels; sources of their
passive control forces remain to be determined (Wiktorowicz AM Lauritzen
DV and Gordon MS unpublished).
Due to space limitations the rest of this paper discusses only our work with
ostraciids and aracanids and extrapolations from that work.
2.2 Study Methods
Data on the biomechanics and kinematics of swimming in these fishes derive
from analyses of high speed digital video recordings of animals swimming
straight ahead at various speeds in low turbulence water tunnels (Gordon et al.
2000; Hove et al. 2001).
Data on passive mechanisms of posture and trajectory control in ostractids
were obtained using dimensionally exact rapid prototyped models of these
fishes with their fins removed. These models were studied in various water
and wind tunnels using 2-dimensional digital particle imaging velocimetry
(DPIV) for flow visualization, force balances for determination of global
forces on the models, and surface pressure measurements to supplement and
verify the DPIV results (Bartol et al. 2003, 2005).
3 Results and Discussion
3.1 Swimming modes and passive controls — ostraciid and
aracanid fishes
Gordon et al. (2000), Hove et al. (2001), and Bartol et al. (2003, 2005) give
detailed descriptions of ostraciid swimming modes and passive controls on
swimming postures and trajectories. Living ostraciids are rigid-bodied multi-
propulsor MPF swimmers. They are impressively dynamically stable over
wide ranges of speed (they glide smoothly through the water), and they are
both fast and maneuverable. Their upper critical swimming speeds are high
compared with most other bony fishes.

--- Page 69 ---
58
As shown in Fig. 1A, the bony carapaces of different ostraciid species are
structurally diverse. 
Shared features within that diversity contribute signifi-
cantly to passive control; these include:
a) 
Carapaces cover about 65% of body length;
b) 
Carapaces have bony closures behind the insertions of the dorsal and
anal fins;
c) 
Carapace surfaces are smoothly curved in ways that control water
flow patterns so they contribute to trim control;
d) 
Carapace corners are shaped into keels that are powerful generators of
continuous leading edge vortices that are major contributors to trim
control;
e) 
Various ornaments on carapaces slow separation of vortices from sur-
faces, enhancing their contributions to trim control.
The aspect we emphasize here is the role of the keels and other ornaments
as leading edge vorticity generators. The sizes and intensities of the continu-
ous vortices produced increase with increased speed through the water. The
positions of the vortices vary with changing angles of attack in ways that are
consistent with their generation of forces on the carapaces that assist signifi-
cantly with automatic passive postural and trajectory control by the fishes.
Bartol et al. (2003, 2005) give detailed quantitative descriptions of the re-
sults of these studies. Important points relevant here are: i) The three inde-
pendent experimental approaches used all gave results consistent with this de-
scription; ii) Although three very different carapace morphologies were
studied, the patterns and mechanisms of flow direction were closely similar in
all cases; iii) The patterns of change of lift coefficients with changing angles
of attack, the quantitative values of those coefficients, and the absence of stall
at high pitch angles (measurements based on force balance studies), were con-
sistent with those characteristic of delta wings. A broad characterization of the
hydrodynamic properties of the carapaces of ostraciid fishes is that they re-
semble carefully sculpted boxes mounted on delta wings.
The relative importance of these automatic passive forces as compared with
the powered forces (lift, drag, and thrust forces, also turning moments) gener-
ated by the complex movements of the fins remains to be determined. Both
flow visualization measurements on living boxfishes and computational fluid
dynamic modeling will be needed to produce a complete picture and analysis.
Gordon et al. (2000) published a qualitative physical model that takes into
account many of the issues involved. That model postulates as a working hy-
pothesis that high precise levels of active posture and trajectory control result
from continuously varying, near exact balances of turning moments generated
by all five fins. Specific patterns of balancing vary as swimming speeds and
gaits vary. The model was developed before the discovery of the vorticity
generating roles of the carapace keels and ornaments. The model is due for re-
finement.

--- Page 70 ---
59
We have studied two species belonging to the evolutionary side branch of
the boxfishes that includes the cool water cowfishes (family Aracanidae).
This relatively unstudied family differs from all ostraciids in having the cara-
paces of all species (which also cover about 65% of body lengths) terminating
just forward of the insertions of both the dorsal and anal fins, rather than en-
closing the bases of those fins. They also have a different pattern of develop-
ment of keels on their carapaces (their carapaces have only a single mid-
ventral longitudinal keel, rather than paired ventrolateral keels and, often,
smaller keels in other locations) (Fig. 1B).
We have studied swimming in two species of these fishes, the ornate cow-
fish (Aracana ornata) and Shaw’s cowfish (Aracana aurita) (Lauritzen DV
Wiktorowicz AM and Gordon MS unpublished). 
Their carapaces make their
bodies almost completely rigid, but the unenclosed bases of their vertical fins
provide sufficient additional flexibility at the bases of their tails that their
swimming mode is a unique combination of both BCF and MPF modes. This
mode is sufficiently unique that it should be designated as aracaniform swim-
ming.
Measurements of upper critical swimming speeds indicate that the maxi-
mum performance levels of aracanids are significantly lower than those of the
ostraciids [about 3 body-lengths/s (BL/s) as compared with 5-6 BL/s]. We
have a substantial database on morphometrics, physical properties, and recti-
linear swimming biomechanics and kinematics in both sexes of each species.
The only significant recoil movements they make as they swim are yawing
motions. In all other respects they are as dynamically stabilized as are the os-
traciids. As we complete the analyses of these data we anticipate they will
permit us to make fully informed inferences as to why this difference in
maximum performance levels exists.
The resolution of this question will require additional flow visualization
studies with living fishes and computational fluid dynamic calculations. The
energy lost to yawing movements may be sufficient to slow them signifi-
cantly. The shapes of their carapaces may also not be as hydrodynamically
streamlined as are those of the ostraciids studied.
3.2 Some Implications
All members of the four families of tetraodontiform fishes we have studied are
rigid-bodied multipropulsor swimmers that move through the water in ways
that are unusually well controlled with respect to posture and trajectory. The
morphological, biomechanical, kinematic, and hydrodynamic bases for these
abilities are presently partially understood. {t is clear, however, that diverse
mixtures of passive and powered mechanisms of control contribute.
The research literature is silent with respect to what we believe may be one
of the most important probable sets of broader implications of our work. The
issues relate to the possible functions in passive control of the widely occur-
ring, morphologically varied, lateral keels and rows of sharp-edged bony

--- Page 71 ---
60
scutes that occur on and near the caudal peduncles of many groups of active
swimmers, We believe that these structures, whatever other functions they
also may serve, act as continuous generators of leading edge vortices. 
We
postulate that those vortices play significant roles in generating forces impor-
tant in passive posture and trajectory control in the animals having the struc-
tures.
Table 1. Phylogenetic distribution of well-developed lateral keels and rows of
scutes on and near the caudal peduncles of unarmored, non-tetraodontiform living
fishes
Class Order 
Family (Genera, common names)
Keels/scutes
Chondrichthyes
Orectolobiformes Rhincodontidae (Rhincodon, whale shark) 
3 keels
Lamniformes 
Cetorhinidae (Cetorhinus, basking shark) 
1 keel
Lamnidae (Carcharodon, great white shark; Isurus,
mako shark; Lamna, salmon and porbeagle sharks)
1 keel
CarchariniformesCarcharhinidae (Galeocerdo only, tiger shark) 1 keel
Squaliformes 
Squalidae (Squalus, all dogfish sharks) 
1 keel
Actinopterygii
Beloniformes 
Belonidae (Belone, Platybelone only, needlefishes)
1 keel
Perciformes 
Carangidae (Caranx and 22 related genera in subfamily
Caranginae, jacks) 
1 row of scutes
Bramidae (Brama, few species, pomfrets) 
_—1 keel
Acanthuridae (Naso, unicornfishes) 
1-2 keels
Luvaridae (Luvarus, louvar) 
1 keel
Gempylidae (Lepidocybium only, escolar) _ 1 keel
Scombridae (Scomberomorus, Spanish mackerels;
Sarda, bonitos; Thunnus and four related genera in
Tribe Thunnini, tunas) 
1 keel
Xiphiidae (Xiphias, swordfish) 
1 keel
Istiophoridae (/stiophorus, sailfishes; Tetrapterus,
spearfishes; Makaira, marlins) 
2 keels
Numbers of keels/rows of scutes are for one side of the fishes; the structures are
bilaterally symmetrical. See text for details.
Phylogenetic sequence, taxonomic terminology, and common names follow
Nelson (2006).

--- Page 72 ---
61
Fig. 2. Lateral and dorsal photographs of caudal peduncles and parts of the tails
of preserved museum specimens [Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History
(LACM)] of five selected species of marine fishes symmetrically having either
one or two well developed lateral keels or a row of well developed lateral scutes.
(A) salmon shark (Lamna ditropis), LACM 47306-1, 93 cm TL (total length), one
keel. 
(B) escolar (Lepidocybium flavobrunneum), LACM 36230-1, 74 em SL
(standard length), one keel. (C) black marlin (Makaira nigricans), LACM uncata-
loged, 3.5 m TL, two keels (oblique lateral view only). (D) horse jack (Caranx
caballus), LACM 9946-1, 33 cm SL, row of scutes. (E) lined unicorn fish (Naso
lineatus), LACM 54199-1, 21 cm SL, two keels. See text for additional informa-
tion.
Table 1 summarizes the phylogenetic distribution of lateral keels and rows
of scutes among the sharks and bony fishes. There are at least several hundred
species represented. They are found in at least five families of sharks, repre-
senting four Orders. They occur in at least nine families of bony fishes, repre-
senting two Orders. Figure 2 shows five selected examples of these structures.

--- Page 73 ---
62
Interesting features of this distribution include:
Most fishes having the structures have one on each side of their peduncles.
Two of the three taxa possessing more than one (the whale shark and the bill-
fishes) reach very large sizes as adults. The third taxon (species of unicorn-
fishes, which are specialized surgeonfishes) are primarily labriform MPF
swimmers. All of the other taxa are primarily BCF swimmers.
The morphologies and relative sizes of the keels vary greatly within and be-
tween taxa. The relative sizes of keels vary substantially allometrically within
species. Keels are important taxonomic characters, occurring in all species, in
multiple taxa (e.g. Lamnidae and Squalidae among the sharks; subfamily Ca-
ranginae in the Carangidae, the true tunas (Tribe Thunnini), and the billfishes).
In other taxa keels occur only sporadically. The tiger shark is the only species
in its group having keels; there are about 50 other species of carcharhinid
sharks (including other pelagic species) that lack keels. The eight species of
the closely related, ecologically similar hammerhead sharks (family Sphyrni-
dae) lack keels. Similar situations exist within the bony fishes. Only two of
the ten genera in the family Belonidae have keels. The tuna-like escolar is the
sole snake mackerel (family Gempylidae) having keels.
The single rows of scutes that characterize the carangin jacks are also
greatly varied in size and extent. In some forms the scutes are restricted en-
tirely to the sides of the peduncles, in others they extend forward almost half
the length of the body. Still other forms have more than half of the length of
the lateral line armored with scutes, including portions of the lateral line high
up on the sides of the fishes.
These features raise a series of biologically and hydrodynamically interest-
ing questions:
What are the implications for swimming speeds, hydrodynamic properties,
and maneuverability of having or not having keels? The research literature is
silent on this subject. Fish and Lauder (2006) and Lauder and Tytell (2006)
discuss the roles of peduncular finlets in flow control and caudal fin function
in scombrid fishes; the only experimental data now available are for fishes
lacking lateral keels (Nauen and Lauder 2001, 2002).
Among the sharks, what are the implications in these subject areas relating
to both the presence and absence of keels and to the interactions of keels with
the varied morphologies of heterocercal tails present in different groups?
Wilga and Lauder (2002, 2004) provide relevant experimental data on this
subject, but only for sharks lacking keels. The multiple convergences between
swimming mechanisms and properties in lamnid sharks and tunas that have
been demonstrated by Donley et al. (2004) and Shadwick (2005) are relevant
here.
How important, in both absolute and relative terms, are the putative vortic-
ity generating functions of keels/scutes? How important are their possible con-
tributions to posture and trajectory control with respect to the other functions
that have been suggested for these structures? At least three other functions

--- Page 74 ---
63
have been suggested: in swimming tunas peduncular keels far aft of the center
of mass act as small low aspect ratio wings that generate lift that damps pitch-
ing movements (Magnuson 
1978); they act as mechanical struts that
strengthen and stiffen the bases of the tails of tunas (Hebrank 1982; Dewar
and Graham 1994; Donley and Dickson 2000); they act to streamline the
transverse structures of the caudal peduncles in both tunas and lamnid sharks,
thus reducing turbulence and therefore drag generated by side to side tail
movements (Aleev 1963; Collette 1978; Sepulveda and Dickson 2000;
Shadwick 2005).
For non-biologists we point out that the structures we describe are almost
all solid, rigid, and often reinforced internally by bone, cartilage, or very stiff
ligaments and tendons. They are not soft and deformable, therefore unlikely
to produce important hydrodynamic effects. While some are relatively small
in size, their locations, far aft of the centers of mass and buoyancy of the ani-
mals, imply substantial leverage for the forces they generate (Weihs 1993).
Their effects are most likely greatest on both pitching and yawing recoil
movements.
References
Aleev YG (1969) Function and gross morphology in fish. Keter Press, Jerusalem.
Alexander RM (1989) Optimization and gaits in the locomotion of vertebrates.
Physiol Rev 69: 1199-1227.
Bartol IK, Gharib M, Weihs D, Webb PW, Hove JR, Gordon MS (2003) 
Hydro-
dynamic stability of swimming in ostraciid fishes: role of the carapace in the
smooth trunkfish Lactophrys triqueter (Teleostei: Ostraciidae). J Exp Biol
206: 725-744
Bartol IK, Gharib M, Webb PW, Weihs, D, Gordon MS (2005) Body-induced
vortical flows: 
a common mechanism for self-corrective trimming control in
boxfishes. J Exp Biol 208: 327-344
Breder CM (1926) The locomotion of fishes. Zoologica N.Y. 4: 159-256
Collette BB (1978) Adaptations and systematics of the mackerels and tunas. In:
Sharp, GD, Dizon, AE (eds) The Physiological Ecology of Tunas. Acdemic
Press, New York, pp. 7-39
Dewar H, Graham JB (1994) Studies of tropical tuna swimming performance in a
large water tunnel. III. Kinematics. J Exp Biol 192: 45-59
Donley JM, Dickson KA (2000) Swimming kinematics of juvenile kawakawa tuna
(Euthynnus affinis) and chub mackerel (Scomber japonicus). J Exp Biol 203:
3103-3116
Donley JM, Sepulveda CA, Konstantinidis P, Gemballa S, Shadwick RE (2004)
Convergent evolution in mechanical design of lamnid sharks and tunas.
Nature 429: 61-65
Drucker EG (1996) The use of gait transition speed in comparative studies of fish
locomotion. Amer Zool 36: 555-566
Drucker EG, Lauder GV (2005) Locomotor function of the dorsal fin in rainbow

--- Page 75 ---
64
trout: kinematic patterns and hydrodynamic forces. J Exp Biol 208: 4479-
4494
Drucker EG, Walker JA, Westneat MW (2006) Mechanics of pectoral fin
swimming in fishes. In: Shadwick RE, Lauder GV (eds) Fish Biomechanics.
Elsevier and Academic Press, Amsterdam, pp. 369-423
Fish FE (1998) Imaginative solutions by marine organisms for drag reduction.
Proc Intl Symp Seawater Drag Reduction, Newport, RI: 443-450.
Fish FE, Shannahan LD (2000) The role of the pectoral fins in body trim of sharks.
J Fish Biol 56: 1062-1073
Fish FE, Lauder GV (2006) Passive and active flow control by swimming fishes
nd mammals. Annu Rev Fluid Mech 38: 193-224.
Gordon MS, Hove JR, Webb PW, Weihs D. (2000) Boxfishes as unusually well-
controlled autonomous underwater vehicles. 
Physiol. Biochem. Zool. 73:
663- 671
Hebrank MR (1982) Mechanical properties of fish backbones in lateral bending
and in tension. J. Biomech. 15: 85-89
Hove JR, O’Bryan LM, Gordon MS, Webb PW, Weihs, D 
(2001) Boxfishes
(Teleosteii: Ostraciidae) as a model system for fishes swimming with many
fins: kinematics. J Exp Biol 204: 459-1471
Lauder GY (2006) Locomotion. In: Evans D, Claiborne J (eds) The Physiology of
Fishes, 3 edn. CRC Taylor and Francis, Boca Raton, pp. 3-46
Lauder GV, Drucker EG (2002) Forces, fishes, and fluids: hydrodynamic
mechanisms of aquatic locomotion. News Physiol Sci 17: 235-240
Lauder GV, Drucker EG (2004) Morphology and experimental hydrodynamics of
fish fin control surfaces. IEEE J Ocean Engr 29: 556-571
Lauder GV, Tytell ED (2006) Hydrodynamics of undulatory propulsion. 
In:
Shadwick RE, Lauder GV (eds) Fish Biomechanics. Elsevier and Academic
Press, Amsterdam, pp. 425-468
Magnuson JJ (1978) Locomotion by scombrid fishes: hydromechanics, morphol-
ogy, and behavior. In Hoar WS, Randall DJ (eds) Fish Physiology, vol. VII,
Locomotion. Academic Press, New York, pp. 239-313
Nauen JC, Lauder GV (2001) Locomotion in scombrid fishes: visualization of
flow around the caudal peduncle and finlets of the chub mackerel Scomber
japonicus. J Exp Biol 204: 2251-2263
Nauen JC, Lauder GV (2002) Hydrodynamics of caudal fin locomotion by chub
mackerel, Scomber japonicus (Scombridae). J. Exp. Biol. 205: 1709-1724.
Nelson JS (2006) Fishes of the World, 4th edn. John Wiley and Sons, New York.
Sepulveda C, Dickson KA (2000) Maximum sustainable speeds and cost of
swimming in juvenile kawakawa tuna (Euthynnus affinis) and chub mackerel
(Scomber japonicus). J Exp Biol 203: 3089-3101
Shadwick RE (2005) How tunas and lamnid sharks swim: an evolutionary
convergence. Amer. Scientist 93: 524-531]
Walker JA (2004) Dynamics of pectoral fin rowing in a fish with an extreme row-
ing stroke: the threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus). J Exp Biol
207: 1925-1939

--- Page 76 ---
65
Walker JA, Westneat MW (2002) Kinematics, dynamics, and energetics of row-
ing and flapping propulsion in fishes. Integr Comp Biol 42: 1032-1043
Webb PW 
(1997) Designs for stability and maneuverability in aquatic verte-
brates: what can we learn? In: Tenth International Symposium on Unmanned
Untethered Submersible Technology. 
Autonomous Undersea System
Institute, Durham, NH, pp. 86-108
Webb PW (2002) Control of posture, depth, and swimming trajectories of fishes.
Integr Comp Biol 42: 94-101
Webb PW (2006) Stability and maneuverability. 
In Shadwick RE, Lauder GV
(eds) Fish Biomechanics. 
Elsevier and Academic Press, Amsterdam, pp.
281-332
Weihs D (1993) Stability of aquatic animal locomotion. 
Contemp Math 141:
443- 461
Weihs D (2002) Stability versus maneuverability in aquatic locomotion. Integr
Comp Biol 42: 127-134
Wilga CD, Lauder GV (1999) Locomotion in sturgeon: function of the pectoral
fins. J Exp Biol 202: 2413-2432
Wilga CD, Lauder GV (2000) Three-dimensional kinematics and wake structure
of the pectoral fins during locomotion in leopard sharks Triakis semifasciata,
J Exp Biol 203: 2261-2278
Wilga CD, Lauder GV (2002) Function of the heterocercal tail in sharks:
quantitative wake dynamics during steady horizontal swimming and vertical
maneuvering. J Exp Biol 205: 2365-2374
Wilga CD, Lauder GV (2004) Hydrodynamic function of the shark’s tail. Nature
430: 850

--- Page 77 ---
Chapter 6
Mechanical Properties of the Caudal Fin
Resulting from the Caudal Skeletal Structure of
the Bluefin Tuna
Hirohisa Morikawa’, Konami Yusa', and Shunichi Kobayashi!
' Department of Functional Machinery and Mechanics, Faculty of Textile
Science and Technology, Shinshu University, 3-15-1 Tokida, Ueda-shi,
Nagano 386-8567, Japan
Summary. The objective of our study was to investigate the effect of cau-
dal fin behavior resulting from the caudal skeletal structure of tuna on the
propulsive performance. In this paper, the caudal skeletal structure and
mechanical properties on the caudal fin of bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus)
were examined. The Young’s modulus of fin rays composing the caudal fin
was obtained. A two dimensional oscillating wing theory was applied to
the caudal fin sinusoidally oscillating in a uniform flow. Then the pressure
distribution over the fin was calculated and the fin deformation was ob-
tained. It was found that a phase delay existed between the leading edge
and the middle part of the fin.
Key words. Biomechanics, Mechanical properties, Tuna, Caudal fin,
Skeletal structure
1 Introduction
It is important to understand the mechanisms that enable biological crea-
tures to move effectively and efficiently through their environment, and to
analyze the characteristics of their various forms of behavior from the en-
gineering viewpoint. It is known that a fish such as tuna with a lunate cau-
dal fin can swim at high speed and the caudal fin plays an important role in
the efficient generation of propulsive force. Studies on oscillating fins of
67

--- Page 78 ---
68
fish have been theoretically and experimentally carried out by a number of
researchers including Lighthill 
(1975) and Chopra (1977). These studies
have shown that the fins have the potential for high propulsion efficiency.
Recently, a robo-tuna (Triantafyllou et al. 1995) and a dolphin robot (Na-
kashima 2003) were developed, and the experiments on their propulsive
performance were carried out. However, their caudal fins were rigid or
flexible wings though they were similar to real caudal fins in shape. The
mechanical properties of the fins and the effect of the caudal fin deforma-
tion resulting from the caudal muscle-skeletal structure on the performance
of propulsion were not taken into account. While the study on tail kinemat-
ics of scombrid fishes indicated that the movement of the caudal fin was
complex and affected force generation (Gibb et al. 1999).
From a biomechanical point of view, we focused on the muscle-skeletal
structure and the mechanical properties of a caudal fin of tuna related to
the deformation of the fin for further improvement of the propulsive per-
formance (Morikawa 2001). The objective of our study was to investigate
the effect of the caudal fin behavior resulting from the caudal muscle-
skeletal structure of tuna on the propulsive performance.
This article describes the caudal skeletal structure and the mechanical
properties on the caudal fin of 
a bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus). The basic
knowledge on the elastic modulus of fin rays composing the caudal fin was
provided in order to analyze the relationship between the deformation of
caudal fin and the fluid dynamic force generated by oscillating the fin.
2 Muscle-Skeletal Structure of Caudal Fin of Tuna
We examined the muscle and the skeletal structure of the caudal fin of a
tuna. Figure 6.1 is a sketch which shows the caudal skeleton of a bluefin
tuna (Thunnus thynnus) of body length 1.55 m. The caudal vertebral col-
umn has process-like plate bones of which both neural and haemal spines
are deformed, and are connected to each other. The up and down motion of
the caudal vertebral column is restricted because each column is inserted
into the space between the process-like plate bones. Some caudal vertebrae
have lateral flanges at both the sides. It is thought that the lateral flanges
reinforce bending rigidity of the caudal peduncle. A caudal fin is com-
posed of a number of fin rays and collagen. A fin ray is composed of
spinous rays from the leading edge to the middle part of the fin and soft
rays in the rear part of the fin. Urostyles or hypurals of the fin are located
between pairs of fin rays. The sweepback angle of the caudal fin is larger
than the angle of each spinous ray composing the fin shown in Fig.6.1.

--- Page 79 ---
69
Each muscle’s tendon reaches the hypural and connects the ends of each
fin ray (Fig.6.2). It is suggested that this tendon-fin ray structure enables
the caudal fin to deform itself and generates the wave motion of the fin. As
the caudal part and fin of tuna are flexed by the alternative contraction of
muscles arranged on both sides of the vertebrae, a phase difference be-
tween caudal vertebrae transmits motion to the fin rays. It is suggested that
the phase delay exists between the leading edge and the middle part of the
fin, and therefore the caudal fin becomes concave in the direction of oscil-
lation.
?
~\
ve
Wy
re
Z }
A
avy
tim
= \
J ee 
S——— es
ee ena >
5
Lateral flange
/ 
oA
Fin ray 
Yj 
4
My y 
4
Caudal vertebra 
Haemalspines 
//// Vl
pci oe 
ner 
; 
j
hs { 
? =<, — eee 
Ze
Uss6) eon ‘pe La =
S 
Va 
5 
Urostyle
Neural spines 
Hypural
Spinal column
Fig.6.1. Caudal skeleton of bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus)

--- Page 80 ---
70
Tendon
Muscles
Caudal fin
Fig.6.2. Caudal muscles and tendons of bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus)
3 Analysis Using FEM
We analyzed the deformation of the caudal fin using Finite Element
Method (FEM) as an anisotropy plate of composite material according to
Kirchhoff assumption. A model of the upper part of the caudal fin with
mesh is shown in Fig.6.3. The number of triangle element is 284 and the
number of nodal point is 170. The restriction condition of the model of the
fin is fixed at the root of the upper part of fin, which is indicated by
hatched lines in Fig.6.3. Constants, expressing the mechanical properties
on the fin, are required to perform a structural analysis using FEM.
Young’s modulus for each element EF, is obtained by the following equa-
tion.
E,=E,V,+E,,V, 
(6-1)
where £; and E,, are the Young’s modulus of the fin ray and the medium
such as collagen, respectively, and V;and V,,, are the content volume rate of
the fin ray and the medium composed the fin respectively. 
In this report,
the Young’s modulus on the medium of the caudal fin E,,, was assumed to
be equal to zero because the effect of the medium on the deformation of
the caudal fin can be thought to be small. In order to investigate the me-
chanical properties of the caudal fin, we first examined the flexural rigidity
of fin ray and obtained the Young’s modulus of the fin ray through the fol-
lowing experiment. The content volume rate of fin ray was estimated by
measuring a area of the fin ray from photographs of cross sections of the

--- Page 81 ---
71
caudal fin cut parallel to the body axis. 
A sample of the photograph of
cross section of the caudal fin of tuna is shown in Fig.6.4.
LRITSO SD
LSI SSDSIAES
eae 
;&
Fig.6.3. Model of the upper part of caudal fin with mesh
Fig.6.4. Cross section of the caudal fin of tuna
4 Experimental Method
Six fin rays were removed from the caudal fin of a bluefin tuna (Thunnus
thynnus) of body length 1.45 m and weight of 52.4 kg. Each fin ray was
numbered from | to 6 (Fig.6.5). Each fin ray was tested for its bending
characteristic with bending test equipment (Shimazu Co.Ltd Autograph
AG20KND). Figure 6.6 shows a schematic diagram of the device for
measuring the bending deformation of a fin ray. The fin ray was marked at
intervals of 20 mm. The bending experiment on fin rays was carried out at
the room temperature 15 - 18 °C taking care to keep fin rays moist as fol-
lows: First the fin ray was fixed at the root. Weight was put on the first
marked point by pushing a rod with a 6 6 ball. The deflection of the fin ray
was measured while applying the load at the displacement rate of 2
mm/min. Next the fixed part was changed to the first marked point of the
fin ray. The weight was placed on the second marked point of the fin ray
and the deflection of the point was measured. This measurement procedure

--- Page 82 ---
72
was repeated for the other marked points of the fin ray. That is why the fin
ray has a variation in cross section (Morikawa et al. 2004).
F
Fitba 
Sampk
Fig.6.5. Fin rays removed from the 
Fig.6.6. Schematic diagram of
caudal fin for bending test and num- 
the setting device for measure-
bered from | to 6 
ment of bending deflection
Figure 6.7 shows an example of the relationship between the load P and
the deflection 6 measured at the first point of fin ray 2 shown in Fig.6.5. It
was shown that they have a simple proportional relation. Other fin rays
showed almost the same relationship. The flexual rigidity £7 in a measured
section was obtained by the following equation,
PL
36
EI 
(6-2)
where E is the Young’s modulus, / is the second moment of area of the fin
ray and L is the span of the measured part. The average second moment of
area was obtained by assuming that the sectional shape neighboring the
root of the fin ray was a ellipse and the shape neighboring the tip of the fin
ray was a rectangle by observing photographs of the cross sections in the
fin ray. Young’s modulus was obtained by calculation.

--- Page 83 ---
73
20
IS 
fF
0 
! 
|
0 
02 
04 
06 
08 
1
Deflection 6 (mm)
Fig.6.7. Relationship between load P and deflection 6 of the fin ray 2
5 Results and Discussion
As an example of Young’s modulus on each part of the fin ray obtained by
use of Eq. (6-2), the distribution of Young’s modulus along the fin ray 2 is
shown in Fig.6.8. Here, the abscissa represents the longitudinal distance
from the root of fin ray and the ordinate represents Young’s modulus. Fig-
ure 6.9 shows the average Young’s modulus of each fin ray indicated in
Fig.6.5. The average Young’s modulus of the fin ray composing the caudal
fin was almost constant at 4.59 GPa (Deviation; 0.24 GPa).
Here, we estimated the mechanical properties on the caudal fin of tuna
composed of fin rays and the medium. The Young’s modulus of the longi-
tudinal direction of the fin ray E, was 8.72 GPa, perpendicular to the fin
ray E; was 0.65 MPa, and both the Poisson ratio and the shear modulus of
the caudal fin were almost zero.
An example of the result calculating the deformation of the caudal fin
by use of FEM when the caudal fin was uniformly loaded is shown in
Fig.6.10. A model of the caudal fin used here was a flat plate with a shape
similar to the caudal fin. The dimensions were 440 mm in span and 100
mm in chord length of the root in the upper part of the caudal fin. The
Young’s modulus obtained by the experiment was applied and the value of
uniform load was 1 kPa in this case. The leading part of the fin was thick
and hard to bent, while the trailing part and the tip of the fin was thin and
flexible. The deflection of the tip of the fin was about 28 mm.

--- Page 84 ---
74
oO 
FP 
NY 
WwW 
Hh 
ND
T 
T 
r 
T 
T
n 
n 
i 
4 
4. 
1 
L 
n
0 
20 
40 
60 
80 
100 120 140 160 180
The longitudinal distance from
the root of fin ray (mm)
Fig.6.8. Distribution of Young’s modulus along the fin ray 2
or 
NW 
hn 
A
qT
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7
Number of fin ray
Fig.6.9. Average Young’s modulus of fin ray
Fig.6.10. An example of FEM analysis results
Next, a caudal fin was divided into rectangular elements (Fig.6.11). Each
element was assumed to be a two dimensional plate wing. The two dimen-
sional oscillating wing theory (Bisplinghoff, Ashley and Holfman 1957)

--- Page 85 ---
75
was applied to the caudal fin sinusoidally oscillating with the pitching and
heaving motions in an uniform flow of which fluid is inviscid and imcom-
pressible. The coordinate of the oscillating wing is shown in Fig.6.12. The
assumption of Kutta’s condition for the trailing edge of the wing is satis-
fied. A thin plate wing is replaced with a vortex sheet. The vorticity on the
wing y(&) was calculated in consideration of vorticity in the wake yw. The
pressure difference dp between the upper and the lower surface of the wing
was obtained by the following equation:
OS, t) = puxs, t) 
(6-3)
where U is the velocity of the uniform flow and pis the density of water.
The pressure distribution over the fin was calculated and the deformation
of the fin was obtained.
t
\
Fin element
——
~
vy
Fig.6.11. Fin element model 
Fig.6.12. Coordinate of oscillating fin
Figure 6.13 shows the deformation of the oscillating fin over time. Cal-
culation conditions were as follows: The maximum amplitude of the heav-
ing motion was 30 mm, the maximum angle of the pitching motion was 40
degree, the phase delay between the heaving and the pitching motions was
90 degree, and the frequency of fin oscillation was 1 Hz. The velocity of
uniform flow was assumed to be 25 m/s. The calculation was carried out in
the quasi steady state of the fin behavior. Figure 6.14 shows the deflection
of both the point a of the leading edge and the point b of the trailing edge
on the model fin shown in Fig.6.3. The fin was found to have the differ-
ence and the phase delay of deflection between the leading edge and the
trailing edge. Therefore the static mechanical properties on the caudal fin

--- Page 86 ---
76
is thought to cause the concave deformation of the caudal fin to the direc-
tion of oscillation in consideration of the caudal skeletal structure.
00 
SSS
— Sa
0 SSS
on) eS SS
oon 
eee 
3
Fig.6.13. Deformation of the oscillating fin (wt: phase of oscillation cycle)
6 Conclusions
The skeletal structure and mechanical properties on the caudal fin of blue-
fin tuna were examined. As a result, it was found that each fin ray of the
caudal fin has almost the same value of Young’s modulus, and a phase de-
lay exists between the leading edge and the middle part of the fin. As the
caudal fin achieves active movement during the tail beat, the function of
the muscle-skeletal structure in producing the complex caudal fin move-

--- Page 87 ---
77
ment and the effect of the deformation of the caudal fin on the propulsive
performance would be investigated.
tT 
a 
|
9 
Pointa
= 
4 Point b
Deflection 
(mm)
a) 
1 
1 
re 
, 
1 
1 
!
0 
l 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6
a
w t(rad)
Fig.6.14. Deflection of the leading edge (a) and the trailing edge (b) of the
caudal fin
References
Bisplinghoff R, Ashley H, Halfman R (1957) Aeroelasticity. Adison-Wesley, 251-
281
Chopra M and Kambe T (1977) Hydrodynamics of lunate-tail propulsion. Part 2,
J. Fluid Mech, Vol 79, 49-69
Gibb AC, Dickson KA, and Lauder GV (1999) Tail kinematics of the chub mack-
erel Scomber japonicus: testing the homocercal tail model of fish propulsion,
J. Exp. Biol. 202, 2433-2447
Lighthill MJ (1975) Mathematical Biofluiddynamics, Soc.for Industrial and Ap-
plied Mathematics
Morikawa H, Nakao S, and Kobayashi S (2001) Experimental study on oscillating
wing for propulsor with bending mechanism modeled on caudal muscle-
skeletal structure of tuna, JSME Int J, Series C, Vol 44, No 4, 1117-1124
Morikawa H, Yusa K and Kobayashi S (2004) Mechanical characteristics of cau-
dal fin resulting from caudal muscle-skeletal structure of bluefin tuna, Proc
14th Int Offshore and Polar Engineering Conference, Toulon, France, 280-283
Nakashima, M, Takahashi, Y, Ono, N, and Tubaki, T (2003) Three-dimensional
maneuverability of a dolphin robot (Roll control and loop-the-loop motion),
Proc 2nd Int Symp on Aqua Bio-Mechanisms, Honolulu
Triantafyllou, MS and Triantafyllou, GS (1995) An efficient swimming machine,
Scientific American, Vol 272, No 3, 64-70

--- Page 88 ---
Chapter 7
Design of Artificial Tail Flukes for a Bottlenose
Dolphin
Wataru Seki', Shingo Kato’, Shinji Saito’, and Takashi Yokoi*
' Diversified Products Research and Development Division, Bridgestone
Corporation, 3-1-1 Ogawahigashi, Kodaira, Tokyo 187-8531, Japan
* Chemical and industrial Products Technology Division, Bridgestone Cor-
poration, 1 Kashio, Totsuka, Yokohama, Kanagawa 244-8510, Japan
* Chemical Products Development Department, Bridgestone Corporation,
1 Kashio, Totsuka, Yokohama, Kanagawa 244-8510, Japan
“Research Center, Bridgestone Corporation, 3-1-1 Ogawahigashi, Kodaira,
Tokyo 187-8531, Japan
Summary. A female bottlenose dolphin (tursiops truncatus), kept in an
aquarium, Okinawa, Japan, lost most part of its tail flukes by diseases. Due
to the loss of the flukes, the dolphin was not able to swim well. To regain
the swimming ability, artificial tail flukes were designed. After several pro-
totypes were tested, the latest prototype, made of silicon rubber and fiber
reinforced plastics, achieved the goal. The flukes were attachable to the
dolphin safely and easily. The field tests showed that the dolphin was able
to swim as before with the help of the flukes.
Key words. dolphin, artificial flukes, biomechanics,
fluid dynamics, composite materials
79

--- Page 89 ---
80
1 Introduction
1.1 About Fuji and Kick-Off of the Project
A female bottlenose dolphin (tursiops truncatus), named Fuji (Fig.1), has
been under human care in Okinawa Churaumi aquarium since 1975. She
suffered progressive necrosis in both distal parts of the tail flukes in 2002.
To save Fuji, the necrotic parts, approximately 75% of the flukes, were ex-
cised, as reported by Ueda (2005). After the surgery, Fuji had recovered,
but was not able to swim well due to the loss of the flukes. Then, Bridge-
stone Corporation, collaborating with the aquarium and the Japanese insti-
tute of cetacean research, started a joint project on designing prosthetic
flukes for Fuji.
Fig.1. Fuji (Photo given by Churaumi Aquarium)
1.2 Key Factors of the Design
The key factors for designing the artificial flukes are as follows. Firstly, it
should be safe. The flukes should not hurt Fuji or other dolphins in the
pool. If the flukes break up into pieces in water, Fuji or other dolphins may
possibly swallow the pieces. So, the flukes should have enough strength
for hydrodynamic loading acting on them.

--- Page 90 ---
81
Secondly, it can be attached to and detached from Fuji easily. For the
safety reasons, Fuji was expected to wear the flukes only daytime, so the
flukes were attached to and detached from Fuji once a day.
Thirdly, the flukes should help Fuji regain swimming ability. For this
point, hydrodynamic studies were needed. The flukes should generate
more propulsive forces without producing large resistant drag forces in
forward swimming. The flukes should be handled easily for several
swimming patterns.
Fourthly, flexibility for possible design changes was desired. Since there
had been no previous works to learn, it was expected that there should be
several design changes as the project proceeded.
Training was also essential in the project. Usually dolphins do not like
wearing foreign objects, so trainers of the aquarium started to train Fuji to
get used to wearing towels on her tail while swimming. From the training,
it was expected that Fuji would probably accept the artificial tail flukes.
2 First Prototype (Boots Type)
As shown in Fig.2(a), the remaining part of Fuji’s flukes were almost
symmetric. A replica, shown in Fig.2(b), was made for dimensional coor-
dination. We adopted a pull-on type structure. Silicon rubber was used be-
cause it is easy for shaping, relatively harmless for animals’ bodies, and
tough against weathering. Foamed rubber sheets were pasted inside of the
fin to prevent scratching the skin of Fuji.
(b)
Fig.2. Fuji’s tail (a) and the replica (b)
The first prototype, or so-called the Boots type is shown in Fig.3. The
flukes were attached to the dolphin by a nylon belt.

--- Page 91 ---
82
Fig.3. First Prototype (Boots Type)
From the field tests, we found Fuji did not reject the flukes and Fuji’s
swimming ability was improved to a certain extent. However, we also
found problems in the boots type flukes. Firstly the shape was somewhat
dull, the flukes generated larger hydrodynamic drag forces comparing to a
streamline shaped body. Secondly, it was too soft to generate enough pro-
pulsive forces.
3 Improved Prototypes
3.1 Revision of Shape, Materials and Structure
As for the shape, we copied from the specimen of a dead Bottlenose dol-
phin’s tail, as shown in Fig.4. A three-dimensional model was made based
on the geometry of the specimen.
Fig.4. Specimen of the flukes (a) and the 3D model (b)

--- Page 92 ---
83
To adjust the stiffness of the flukes, we adopted a core plate, made of
CFRP (carbon fiber reinforced plastics). By inserting it to the flukes, as
shown in Fig.5, the tail flukes can be properly reinforced. The core plate
should have enough robustness to support hydrodynamic loading. The
choice of materials and structure of the core plate was quite important so
that the flukes can bear hydrodynamic loads acting on them. The field tests
showed the first prototype of the core plate, made of CFRP, did not have
sufficient strength, especially when the flukes underwent impulsive loads.
The materials and structure of the core plates, such as number of layers
and fiber directions, were revised using finite element methods so that the
maximum stresses in the core plates, caused by hydrodynamic loads, were
minimized.
Core Plate
_ Rubber Flukes
Fig.5. Core plate and the flukes
Fig.6 showed the schematic configuration of the revised core plate. The
carbon fiber was used only for the layers near the neutral plane and glass
fiber was used for layers near the surface. The configuration and thickness
were also different to place to place as shown in Fig. 6. The plate was the
thinnest at the edge (part A), and the thickest around the center (part E), in
Fig.6. It was thicker in front and thinner at the other side. The setup was
intended to simulate the real dolphin flukes so that the flukes had proper
flexibility and robustness as well.

--- Page 93 ---
84
A
Vv
? 
A 
v
Glass Fiber Layer "eg
Carbon Fiber Layer
| 
0° 
E 
D 
Cc. 
_B 
A 
®
«——— 
+ 
<__ <« _® «+ —_>
glass layers
carbon layers
thichness of each layer is 0.2mm
direction of fibers are 0° and 90°, alternately
| 
co} >
jon
o
-_—
N
_—
cs
oe
rs
Fig.6. Schematic configuration of the revised core plate fiber layers
3.2 Bandage and Cowling Prototypes
As for the attachment methods, we tried the bandage type (Fig.7) and the
cowling type (Fig.8). For the bandage type, the flukes were fastened by X-
crossed nylon bands to the dolphin’s tail. For the cowling type, the flukes
were gripped by the cowling, a fastening plate made of CFRP. Two bolts
were used, at the circles in Fig.8, to fasten the cowling to the flukes. In ei-
ther way, we confirmed that the flukes were attached to the dolphin’s tail
firmly without any harm to the dolphin.

--- Page 94 ---
85
Fig.7. Bandage prototype
Fig.8. Cowling prototype
4 Water Tank Tests
4.1 Theoretical Backgrounds
A series of water tank tests were carried out to investigate the hy-
drodynamic performances of the several prototypes of the flukes.
Nagai (2002) explained how dolphins generate swimming propul-
sion based on the oscillating wing theory. As shown in Fig.9, the tail

--- Page 95 ---
86
flukes of a dolphin move along a sinusoidal path in forward swim-
ming. Then two components of hydrodynamic forces — Lift and
Drag Forces — act on the flukes. Usually the drag force is negligibly
small comparing to the lift, so the horizontal component of the lift
force works as the thrust, which makes the dolphin swim forward.
ss
Swimming Direction 
att T its,
o 
as
‘4 
a
Angle q.- -
”
”
Pa
Fig.9. Oscillating wing theory
From the hydrodynamic point of view, it is desirable to design the
tail flukes in such a way that the drag force is minimized and the lift
force is maximized. To minimize the drag, the shape of flukes and
the surface should be smooth as much as possible. As for the shape,
we assumed that the current shape of dolphins has been naturally op-
timized through the process of evolution. From the field tests using
the boots type, we found that the flukes were not able to generate
enough propulsion if the flukes were too soft. To investigate the hy-
drodynamic property of the flukes, we conducted the following wa-
ter tank tests.

--- Page 96 ---
87
4.2 Experiments
The tests were carried out at the water tank shown in Fig.10, at the De-
partment of Environment and Ocean Engineering, the University of Tokyo.
Figure 11 shows the setup of the experiment. The lift and drag forces were
measured while the flukes were towed with the speed of 2.5m/s.
Fig.11. Bandage type flukes attached to the test equipment

--- Page 97 ---
88
4.3 Results and Discussion
The Fig.12(a) and (b) show the drag and lift coefficients, Cp and C1, re-
spectively, calculated from;
1
Fp= 3 Cp pV’S 
(1)
1
Fiz 
G1 pv’s 
(2)
where, Fp; drag force, F,; lift force, p, density of water, V; forward
speed of the flukes, S; plane area of the flukes. From the experimental re-
sults, we found;
1) As for the attachment methods, the cowling type was superior to the
bandage type since the former generates less drag forces than the latter.
2) The flukes reinforced by the core plates generate larger lift force than
the one without core plates.
Therefore, we finally adopted the Cowling type flukes reinforced by a
core plate, among the prototypes tested.
(a) 
(b)
Cp (Coefficient of Drag) 
Li 
C, (Coefficient of Lift)
| 
8:6 
+2 
A
05 - 
A 
7 
08
a 
a8
06: 
aS Oc
04 
|
02
f 
-20 
-10 
10 
20 
30 
40
20 
-10 
O 
1 
2 
30 
40
Attack Angle 
q /° 
i 
Attack Angle 
g /°
A 
{Cowling Type with Core Plate
B 
[Bandage Type with Core Plate
C 
|Bandage Type without Core Plate
Fig.12. Coefficient of Drag (a) and Lift (b)

--- Page 98 ---
89
5 Field Tests
The developed fluke prototypes were checked by field tests at Okinawa
Churaumi Aquarium. We let Fuji try several swimming patterns with the
flukes. The swimming patterns included ordinary ones with constant
speed, turning round, backstroke, twisting, treading water, continuous
jumping, and high jumping. In high jumping, Fuji was able to reach 1.5m
above the water level, as shown in Fig.13. The field tests showed that the
latest fluke prototype Cowling type- had enough robustness. We con-
firmed that Fuji regained her swimming ability she had had before.
Nagai (2002) proposed the Swimming Number (Sw) defined by;
Sw = U/l 
(3)
Where fis the tail beat frequency, U is the swimming velocity, and / is
the body length. The swimming number means how far the animal can go
forward per body length during one tail beat. It is a dimensionless number
and can be interpreted as a measure of the animal’s swimming ability.
Fig.13. Field tests — Fuji (the dolphin) jumped into the air with the artifi-
cial Flukes

--- Page 99 ---
90
Average Sw for bottlenose dolphins is about 0.8-0.9, according to Nagai
(2002). Otani (2005) found that Sw of Fuji was 0.4-0.5 and 0.6-0.7 when
she was not wearing and wearing the artificial flukes respectively. Al-
though the Sw of Fuji did not match the values of non-impaired dolphins,
her swimming ability was clearly improved by the artificial tail flukes.
6 Conclusions
Artificial tail flukes for a dolphin that lost its own tail by diseases were de-
veloped. The key points for the fluke design were to assure safety and ro-
bustness for swimming. Laboratory tests were conducted to evaluate and
improve the basic hydrodynamic performances of the flukes. Based on fi-
nite element analyses, the flukes were fabricated. The latest fluke proto-
type showed to have enough performance and robustness for most of the
dolphin’s swimming patterns.
Acknowledgements
We would like to express our sincere thanks to Dr. Uchida, Mr. Miyahara,
and Mr. Ueda (DVM) of Okinawa Churaumi Aquarium, Professor Miyata
and Mr. Tsuchiya of the University of Tokyo, Dr. Kanbe, Professor Nagai
of Ryukyu University, Dr. Otani of the Institute of Cetacean Research for
their cooperation.
References
Nagai M (2002), Thinking Fluid Dynamics with dolphins, IOS Press Inc.:
7, 
43-44
Ueda K, Miyahara H and Uchida S (2005), Artificial Tail Flukes | —
Symptoms and Medical Treatments, Proc. of the 16th Biennial Confer-
ence on the Biology of Marine Mammals, San Diego, December.
Otani S, Ueda K, Miyahara H and Uchida S (2005), Artificial Tail Flukes
3 — Swimming Behavior, Proc. of the 16th Biennial Conference on the
Biology of Marine Mammals, San Diego, December.

--- Page 100 ---
Chapter 8
Changes in Drag Acting on an Angled Wavy
Silicon-rubber Plate as a Model of the Skin Folds
of a Swimming Dolphin
Hui Zhang, Naoki Yoshitake', and Yoshimichi Hagiwara’
' Department of Mechanical and System Engineering, Graduate School of
Science and Technology, Kyoto Institute of Technology, Matsugasaki,
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8585, Japan
Summary. We have conducted experiments of turbulent water flow over
an angled wavy plate on the bottom of an open channel. The plate consists
of a silicon-rubber sheet, a thin adhesive film and a metal base. The wave
amplitude and wavelength are 0.7mm and 20mm, respectively. We have
measured velocity by applying a particle-tracking-velocimetry technique to
the images of particles in flow. The local value of time-averaged wall-
shear stress has been calculated from the local mean velocity. The total
drag is estimated from the measured strains of thin metal strips, which
support the plate. The experimental results show that the streamwise mean
velocity decreases and the turbulence intensities increase in the near-plate
area in and around the valley region. This is due to the flow separation.
The time-averaged wall-shear stress is lower than that in the case of the
flat wall in and around the valley region. The 15% reduction is obtained
for the overall wall shear stress compared with that in the case of the flat
wall. The increasing rate of the total drag is lower than that estimated for a
non-angled wavy wall.
Key words. Dolphin, Skin folds, Angled wavy plate, Experiment, Drag
1 Introduction
The swimming of dolphins has been discussed widely in various research
fields. Among many topics of dolphin swimming, the reduction of friction
drag has been focused on recently not only in marine biology and bio-
mimicry but also in fluids engineering and naval engineering. This is due
to the necessity of reducing the fuel consumption of boats, ocean liners and
submarines. 
Fish (2006) discussed the investigation of drag-reduction
mechanisms in his review. He pointed out the following mechanisms; (1)
viscous damping by compliant skin, (2) ridges at the skin surface, (3) skin
9)

--- Page 101 ---
92
folds, 
(4) 
induced 
turbulent 
boundary 
layer, (5) 
boundary 
layer
acceleration, (6) secretions of polymers from eyes, and (7) boundary-layer
heating. The effectiveness of the last two mechanisms is considered to be
limited or insignificant. The fourth and fifth mechanisms are mainly
associated with flow around the pectoral fins and caudal fins of dolphins,
respectively. Thus, these two mechanisms are not related to the friction-
drag reduction in a wide region of a dolphin’s body. The review states that
mobile skin folds (the third mechanism) were observed on accelerating
dolphins by some researchers. In this case, the force acting on the skins of
dolphins is stronger than that of dolphins swimming with the original
speed. The folds are much bigger than the ridges. Actually, one of the
present authors took photos of skin folds around the base of the pectoral
fins and the side of the abdominal area of the bottlenose dolphins, which
were swimming upward in a huge seawater tank. 
Figure 1 shows the
typical photos. Their speed of swimming was at its fastest. Therefore, the
skin folds are one of the most probable drag-reduction mechanisms in the
body of fast-swimming dolphins.
It is considered that the deformation of the skin surface to generate folds
is gradual and that the motion of the skin folds is slow because of the
structure of the skin. Thus, the skin folds can be modeled with a wavy
wall of a water channel as the first-order approximation. 
Our research
group carried out experiments using several kinds of wavy walls:
Nagamine et al. (2004) obtained an increase in the wall shear stress at the
hilltop of an aluminum wavy wall. Yamahata et al. (2005) measured the
flow over the deforming wall synchronized with the flow acceleration and
obtained a decrease in the wall shear stress at the valley region. 
They
made the wall by using silicon rubber because it bears the most similarity
to dolphin skin. 
Note that Choi et al. (1997) obtained turbulent drag
reduction of a long slender body by using the silicon-rubber surfaces.
The ridgelines were perpendicular to the main flow in our previous
studies. However, the angles between the body axes of dolphins and the
ridgelines in Fig. 1 are not 90 degrees. Therefore, how this angle affects
the drags has not yet been clarified. Recently, we measured the velocity of
turbulent water flow over an angled wavy wall covered with a silicon-
rubber sheet in a preliminary experiment (Zhang, et al., 2006). Although
we obtained a slight reduction in friction drag, we could not measure the
total drag.
In the present study, we conduct an experiment for turbulent water flow
over an angled wavy plate. We measure velocity profiles near the plate
and calculate the wall shear stress from the profiles. Also, we estimate the
total drag from the measured strains of thin metal strips, which support the
angled wavy plates.

--- Page 102 ---
93
(b)
Fig. 1. Photos of swiftly swimming bottlenose dolphins
2 Experimental methods
2.1 Apparatus
Figure 2 shows the open channel. Water in the constant-head tank was
introduced into the contraction chamber through a valve. The water in the
chamber flowed into an open channel of 2000 mm in length and 270 mm
in width. A tripping wire and an emery paper were attached to the bottom
wall at the inlet of the channel in order to enhance the development of a
turbulent boundary layer along the bottom wall. The perforated weir was
located at the exit of the channel. The height of the weir was adjusted in
order to control the water depth and velocity distribution. The x, y and z
axes were positioned in the axial, upward and transverse directions,
respectively.
The Reynolds number Re, based on the bulk-mean velocity and the
water depth H (=35 mm), was 8.8 x 10°. The Reynolds number Re,, based
on the friction velocity of the flat plate wu,» and H, was 5.6 x 10°. The
Froude number was 0.41. We estimated the Kolmogorov length scale /x
and the Kolmogorov time scale ft from DNS result of an open channel
flow obtained by Yamamoto et al. (2001). 
These scales are shown in
Table 1.

--- Page 103 ---
94
A: Contraction chamber
B: Emery paper, C: Tripping wire
D: Rubber sheet, E: Test section 
a/ A=0.035 
05)
F: Side wall
Fig. 2. Open channel 
Fig. 3. Test plate
Table 1. Kolmogorov scales
ix[mm] i 
tk [s] 
ty” 
1/t,{ Hz] It" I [Hz] Ke
0.10 
1.6 
0.010 
24 
100 
042 
300 
1.2
2.2 Test Plate
The test section was located in a developed region of the channel. Figure 3
shows the front and top views of the test plate. The plate consists of a
stainless-steel flat plate (0.5 mm in thickness), a thin adhesive film and a
thin silicon-rubber sheet. The angled wavy surface was made by inserting
metal pipes into the slots of the film and sheet. 
The angle between the
channel axis (flow direction) and the ridgeline of the wavy plate was set at
80 degrees. This angle was decided based on the skin folds seen in Fig. 1.
The wave amplitude a, the wavelength A, their non-dimensional values, the
ratios of a/t, a/H, a/lx and W/Ix are shown in Table 2. It is found from this
table that the dimensions of the wavy plate are much larger than the
smallest eddies. The area of the wavy surface was one-sixth of the total
area of the test plate. This fraction will be used in the discussion of the
total drag in Subsection 3.4. Note that the test plate without the insertion
of pipes was used as a reference flat plate.
Table 2. Parameters of wavy plate
a{mm] a’ 
A [mm] A* 
a/n 
WH 
ally 
Mx
0.70 
11 
20 
310 
0.035 
0.019 
7.0 
200

--- Page 104 ---
95
2.3 Flow Visualization
The flow was visualized with laser-induced fluorescent particles. 
We
made the particles by adsorbing Rhodamine B to the particles (Mitsubishi
Chemicals, SEPABEADS SP20SS: the specific weight is 1.02). 
The
diameters of the particles were in the range of 0.063 - 0.075 mm. Thus,
the particles are smaller than the Kolmogorov length scale. 
The upper
limit of the frequency f,, beyond which these particles cease to respond to
fluid sinusoidal fluctuation completely, was estimated to be 300 Hz from
the equations obtained by Hjelmfelt Jr. and Mockros (1966). The non-
dimensional value of this frequency, f,’ = fv/u,’, is shown in Table 1. The
reciprocal of the Kolmogorov time scale is the frequency corresponding to
the smallest eddies. It is found from the table that fis much higher than
the reciprocal. This shows that the particles can follow flow fluctuation
caused by the smallest eddies. Therefore, the particles were appropriate.
2.4 Image Capturing
Figure 4 exhibits the optical system and image-capturing system. A green
light of Nd: YVO, laser was used as the light source. 
The light was
expanded with a plano-convex cylindrical lens and a plano-concave lens to
obtain a light sheet. This light sheet passed through a slit of 5 mm in width
above the free surface. The light sheet thus obtained illuminated the flow.
2—.¢/_f 
4 
1 YVO, Laser
> 
2 Mirror
>. — - 
3 Convex lens
6... 
& 
- 
4 Concave lens
—o 
| 
5 Slit
Fla 
y.-@ 
6 Laser sheet
a 
y 
4 
7 Test plate
an 
8 CCD camera
9 Water prism
Z—H—~6 
"PC = 
10 PC
a-|-1/ 
om rao) 
Fig. 4. Velocity
- Si 
- 
~ / 
measurement system
Table 3. Image-capturing condition
Frame rate [frames/s] 
300 
Shutter speed [ms] 
0.4
Pixel-covering area [mm] 0.035 x 0.035 |Gray level [-] 
256
Total area [mm’] 
22.4 
11.2 | |Numbers of frames [-] 4000x3

--- Page 105 ---
96
Fluorescence was induced from the particles by the illumination of the
laser light sheet. 
The fluorescence was captured by a CCD camera
(IMPERX, Vga210-L) through an optical filter in front of the camera. The
filter was used to reduce the reflected laser light at the sidewalls. 
The
camera was located at a side of the channel as shown in Fig. 4. The optical
axis of the camera was set parallel to the ridgelines of the wavy plate so
that the valley of the plate was completely observed. In order to reduce
refraction at the channel sidewall, a water prism was attached to the outer
surface of the wall. Since the angle between the laser light sheet and the
camera axis was 80 degrees, the captured images were distorted slightly.
We captured a reference image in order to compensate for the distortion of
images. A plate with grids was used for this reference image. This plate
was placed parallel to the channel axis inside the laser light illumination
area. The compensation of the captured images was carried out before the
preprocessing of the images mentioned below. 
The image-capturing
condition is summarized in Table 3. The captured images were directly
recorded into the memory of a PC through a frame grabber board.
2.5 Image Processing
The particle-mask correlation method, developed by Etoh et al. (1999),
was used to remove weak scattered light of particles from the images. The
PTV technique based on the velocity gradient tensor method, proposed by
Ishikawa et al. (2000), was applied to the preprocessed images for
obtaining velocity vectors. 
In this method, the matrix including the
velocity gradient tensor was calculated for pairs of neighboring particles in
a specific region around a particle. Then, the sum of the square of errors in
the matrix was evaluated. 
This procedure was repeated for all the
candidate particles until the sum took its minimum value. This method has
the advantage of reproducing strongly deformed velocity fields accurately.
The velocities of the particles were redistributed to the grid points of 14
x 50. The velocity of a particle was simply shifted to the nearest grid point
in the redistribution procedure. 
The uncertainty of the velocity was
estimated to be 5.6 mm/s in the case of the streamwise velocity of
250mm/s. This shows that the measured velocity was accurate.
2.6 Total Drag
Figure 5 indicates the measurement system for the streamwise component
of total drag acting on the test plate. 
The test plate was steadied by
phosphor bronze strips. The strain gages were adhered to the strips. The

--- Page 106 ---
97
outputs of the gages were recorded through bridge circuits to a PC. Many
particles of 0.3 mm diameter were inserted between the channel bottom
and the lower surface of the test plate as bearings.
3 Results and discussion
Hereafter, we divide the whole area of each image into the following six
regions as shown in Fig. 6 in order to clarify difference in results: valley,
uphilll, uphill2, hilltop, downhill2 and downhilll.
3.1 Hilltop and Valley Regions
Figure 7 exhibits the profiles of mean velocities in the streamwise and
vertical directions. 
It is found that the streamwise mean velocity in the
area of y < 0.5 cm in the valley region shown with solid triangles is lower
than that in the case of the flat wall. The velocity adjacent to the plate
takes a negative value. Since the base point of the valley is the same as
that of the flat wall, the velocity gradient in the valley region is lower than
that of the flat wall.
On the other hand, the streamwise mean velocity in the hilltop region
shown with solid circles increases sharply from zero at the base point
(shown with a black dot on the horizontal axis). The velocity in the region
0.5 mm higher from the base point is slightly higher than the velocity at
the same region in the case of the flat wall. This indicates that the velocity
gradient is steeper in the hilltop region than that of the flat wall. 
The
velocities in the vertical direction take positive values in the valley.
Bf 
> 
o_| ; 
1 Angled wavy plate
| 
| bil «3 
2 Wire
—— 
3 PC
>’: ° 
4 Bridge circuits
8 
/| (a 
° 
5 Clamped plate
A 
a 
6 Strain gage
Flog/” 
) 
beaks 
7 Phosphor bronze strip
lb G 
OL 
8 Lead wire
ld 
9 Fence
ae 
= 
10 U-brass
9 
Fig. 5. Drag measurement
system

--- Page 107 ---
98
valley, YP 
UP 
hill 
down down 
Silicone rubber
' 
hint thit2 top 
'minz thin 
| 
SUS plate
' 
' 
' 
' 
‘ 
' 
'
: 
; 
Metal pipe
' 
i 
"sa
Fig. 6. Definitions of regions
35
30
ees
nennanccseccsssees?
25 
eognatt® 
ae
Pe
» 20 
.° gat 
ane
: 
7 - 
e hilltop_u
‘ 4s 
hilltop_v
> 
140 
. 
—
5 
¢ 
4 
——
¢ hilltop base point
0 
ZaSomSEsooooesonognaaannanananageaeens
59 
0.2 
0.4 
06 
Sm 
1,
yem
Fig. 7. Mean velocity profiles in the regions of valley and hilltop
4.5
« 
vailey_u
4 
mi 
valley_v
. 
« 
hilltop_u
3.5 
." 
hilitop_v
‘ 
¢ 
flatu
3 
oe, 
8 
S060 
flat_v
= 
. 
ai 
*. 
© 
hilltop base point
> 25 
Ae ~ igi 
Nagaosa u (Ret=300)
+
a 
» 
. 
eos ; : *. 
Nagaosa v (Ret=300)
H 
ee 
ieee 
Soar ok Pa
“5 
a2 
t-e% 
teres
1.5 
5 
‘ 
Miigeegeees..
Boer 
SS 
aggre’ 
‘ 
$abes
1
0.5
0 
.
0 
20 
40 
60 
80 
100 
120 
140 
160 
180
y
Fig. 8. Turbulence intensities in the regions of valley and hilltop
Figure 8 depicts turbulence intensity profiles in the streamwise and
vertical directions. 
The intensities in the case of flat wall shown with
lozenges are higher than those predicted by Nagaosa and Handler (2003).
Re, in their computation is nearly half the present case. 
Since the
intensities increase with the Reynolds number as shown in their study, the
difference between their results and our results in Fig. 8 is reasonable.
In Fig. 8, the streamwise turbulence intensity in the valley region shown
with solid triangles is higher than that in the case of the flat wall in the area
of y < 70. The vertical turbulence intensity in the valley region shown

--- Page 108 ---
99
with open triangles is higher than that in the case of the flat wall in the area
of y < 60. Similarly, the streamwise and vertical turbulence intensities in
the area of 25 < y” < 80 in the hilltop region, which are shown with the
solid circles and open circles respectively, are higher than those of the flat
wall. 
All the turbulence modifications indicate that the flow structures
near the valley and hilltop are different from that near the flat wall.
3.2 Uphill and Downhill Regions
Figure 9 shows the velocity profiles in the regions of downhilll and
uphilll. These regions are positioned symmetrically with respect to the
valley. The velocities in the streamwise and vertical directions increase
adjacent to the plate in the uphilll region, while they do not increase
adjacent to the plate in the downhill! region.
35
30 
.
gannnneaaeee
25 
ances
a®* 
F
a 20 
a" 
8 uphill1_u
€ 
= 
0 uphill1_v
a 
. 
+ downhill 
_u
> 10 
= 
— downhill1_v
5 
= 
@ uphill1 base point
s +
0 
e@282ococscgeaggequgegccoccessasssssosa
5 0 
0.2 
04 
0.6 
0.8 
1 
1.2
yom
Fig. 9. Mean velocity profiles in the regions of uphill1 and downhill!
5
45 
® uphillt_u
4 
. 
0 uphill1_v
2 
downhill1_u
a 
er 
~ downhill1_v
£ 
3 
"a 
e uphill1 base point
3 2.5 
s 
_ 
"a,
£ 
2 
086 4-_ 
"sun,
> 
o- 
“Car=-.- 
eeona
a 
Oo. 
"8gng57---- 
bbe 
LCL TT TT]
1 
- 
~ °"Sa0gc6pogg0PCcc8ecoRD
0.5
0 
e
0 
50 
100 
150 
200
Fig. 10. Turbulence intensities in the regions of uphill1 and downhilll

--- Page 109 ---
100
35
30 
ea eereeeeee®
25 
gecaaneeeene®
o* 
.
» 20 
,* 
@ uphill2_u
e 
. 
. 
.
5 
45 
e 
° uphii2_y
> 
. 
downhill2_u
> 40 
° 
- downhill2_v
5 
° 
@ uphill2 base point
0 
82°°92090900000000000000000000000000
0 
0.2 
0.4 
0.6 
0.8 
1 
1.2
yom
Fig. 11. Mean velocity profiles in the regions of uphill2 and downhill2
4.5° 
¢ uphill2_u
© uphill2_v
. 
7 
< downhill2_u
» 
o 
i
3 
3 
. 
Si 
- downhill2_v
; 
. 
¥> 
uphill2 base 
point
> 25 
tex, 
—_— 
TM
S 
2 
8
2 
- 22005. 
ree
E15 - 
476 
°S 55665 
aaa abeeines
4 
©9585 5000009 00000000
0.5
0 
e
0 
50 
100 
180 
200
Fig. 12. Turbulence intensities in the regions of uphill2 and downhill2
The turbulence intensities in the two regions are indicated in Fig. 10.
The intensities in the downhill! region are slightly higher than those in the
uphilll region except for the near-plate region.
Figure 11 shows the profiles of mean velocities in the regions of uphill2
and downhill2. These regions are positioned symmetrically with respect to
the hilltop. 
The velocities in the streamwise and vertical directions
increase adjacent to the plate in the uphill2 region, while they do not
increase adjacent to the plate in the downhill2 region. 
The turbulence
intensities in these regions are shown in Fig. 12. The streamwise intensity
in the downhill2 region is slightly higher than that in the uphill2 region.
The value of a/A in Table 2 is higher than the critical value, over which a
flow separation appears in the valley and downhilll regions, in the case of
flow over non-angled rigid wavy walls (Tuen et al., 2006; De Angeles et
al., 
1997). 
We observed the flow separation in our preliminary
experiment. Thus, the asymmetry of the turbulence statistics with respect
to the valley and hilltop mentioned above is due to the flow separation.

--- Page 110 ---
101
3.3 Wall Shear Stress
We calculated the wall shear stress in the streamwise direction from the
gradient of wu shown in Figs. 7, 
9 and 11. 
The wall shear stress in each
region is shown in Table 4. 
The wall shear stresses in the hilltop and
downhill2 regions are higher than that in the case of the flat wall, while the
shear stresses in the other regions are lower than that in the case of the flat
wall. 
The mean value over the whole surface was calculated from the
average of the values in Table 4. The mean value is 0.21 N/m’ and thus,
the friction drag was reduced by 15 percent by the angled wavy plate.
We measured the velocity in a horizontal plane just above the buffer
region (Zhang et al, 2006). The ratio of velocity in the z direction to that
in the x direction was in the range of 2.0 — 2.9%. Thus, flow along the
ridgelines is weak. Note that the wall shear stress in the z direction is only
0.05 — 0.06% of the wall shear stress in the x direction.
Table 4. Wall shear stress in each region
flat | valley uphilll uphill2 hilltop downhill2 downhilll
tw [N/m*]] 0.25 -0.008 
0.19 
0.23 
0.40 
0.37 
0.08
3.4 Total Drag
In the case of the flat wall, the total drag should be equal to the friction
drag. The measured total drag was about 13 % higher than the estimated
friction drag from the mean velocity gradient. The difference may be due
to the friction of bearing particles or errors of the strain measurement.
In the case of the angled wavy plate, we considered that the transverse
component of total drag is negligible. The streamwise component of total
drag was 17 % higher than that of the flat wall. If the whole surface of the
test plate is angled-wavy, the increase would be 17x6 = 102 %. This is
approximately 20 % lower than that estimated from the result of the non-
angled rigid wavy wall (Tuen et al. 2006). It is considered that the weak
flow along the ridgelines causes instability of the flow separation, and that
the unstable separation leads to the changes in the drag.
4 Conclusions
The experiment was conducted for water flow over an angled wavy plate
covered with silicon rubber. The main conclusions obtained are as follows:

--- Page 111 ---
102
1. The streamwise mean velocity decreases and the turbulence intensities
increase in the near-wall area in and around the valley regions. This is
due to the flow separation.
2. The local wall shear stress is lower than that in the case of the flat wall
except for the stress in the hilltop and downhill2 regions. 
The 15%
reduction is obtained for the overall wall shear stress compared with that
in the case of the flat wall.
3. The increasing rate of the total drag is reduced by the silicon-rubber
angled wavy plate. This is probably due to the instability of flow
separation caused by the weak secondary flow along the ridgelines.
The authors acknowledge Mr. T. Saito at Port of Nagoya Public Aquarium
for his comments on dolphins.
References
De Angelis V, Lombardi P, Banerjee S (1997) Direct numerical simulation of
turbulent flow over a wavy wall. Physics of Fluids. vol. 9, pp 2429-2442
Choi, KS et al. (1997) Turbulent drag reduction using compliant surfaces. Proc.
Royal Soc. London A vol. 453, pp 2229-2240
Etoh T, Takehara K, Okamoto K (1999) Performance evaluation of the PMC and
the KC methods for particle extraction and tracking through their application to
standard particle images (in Japanese). Trans. JSME vol. 65B, pp 1688-1695
Fish FE (2006) Review of dolphin hydrodynamics and swimming performance. J.
Biomimetics and Bioinspiration vol.1, pp. R21-R26
Hjelmfelt Jr AT, Mockros LF (1966) Motion of discrete particles in a turbulent
fluid. Applied Scientific Research vol. 16, pp 149-161
Ishikawa M 
et al. (2000) A novel algorithm for particle tracking velocimetry using
the velocity gradient tensor. Experiments in Fluids vol. 29, pp 519-531
Nagamine H 
et al. (2004) Turbulence modification by compliant skin and strata-
comeas desquamation of a swimming dolphin. J. Turbulence vol. 5 no.018, 25p
Nagaosa R, Handler RA (2003) Statistical analysis of coherent vortices near a free
surface in a fully developed turbulence. Physics of Fluids. vol. 15, pp 375-394
Tuan HA et al. (2006) Immersed boundary method for simulating turbulent flow
over a wavy channel. Extended Abstracts of Whither Turbulence Prediction and
Control. pp 116-117
Yamahata K et al. (2004) Turbulence modification by compliant wall as a model
of dolphin skin. Proc 2nd Int. Symp. on Seawater Drag Reduction, pp 535-544
Yamamoto Y, Kunugi T, Serizawa A (2001) Turbulence statistics and scalar
transport in an open-channel flow. J. Turbulence vol. 2, no. 010, 16p
Zhang H, Nakamura S, Hagiwara Y (2006) Reduction of friction drag by angled
wavy wall simulating deformed skin of dolphins (in Japanese). Proc. 2006 Annual
Meeting, Japan Soc. Fluid Mechanics (CD-ROM), no. AM06-12-003, 4p.

--- Page 112 ---
Chapter 9
Central nervous system underlying fish swimming
[A review]
1Kazumasa Uematsu
‘Laboratory of Fish Physiology, Graduate School of Biosphere Sciences, Hi-
roshima University, Kagamiyama 1-4-4, Higashi-Hiroshima, Hiroshima 739-
8528, Japan
Summary. In the swimming of fish, thrust is generated by undulatory movements
of the trunk muscles. The trunk muscles are composed of myomeres innervated by
corresponding spinal segments, which are in turn composed of neural circuits
which range longitudinally and interconnect. In each spinal segment there are
various types of interneurons and motor neurons, which together form a central
pattern generator (CPG). Although each CPG can potentially generate its own
swimming rhythm, the activity of each CPG is regulated by excitatory commands
from the brain and by mutual excitatory and inhibitory interactions between in-
terneurons to produce controlled locomotion.
The nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus (Nflm) has been identified as
a locomotor region in the midbrain of the carp. Nflm neurons extend axons to the
spinal cord and are connected to intraspinal motor neurons and interneurons.
Physiological studies have demonstrated that there are neurons in Nflm which fire
tonically only during swimming. These neurons probably drive spinal the CPGs to
initiate and maintain swimming. Swimming of unrestrained goldfish can be in-
duced by wired and wireless electric stimulation of Nflm, also supporting argu-
ments that Nflm controls swimming in teleost fishes. The involvement of the fish
cerebellum in swimming is also discussed.
Key words. central pattern generator, fish, locomotion, midbrain, spinal cord
1 Introduction
Animals move in their environment to search of food, to find prey, to avoid preda-
tors, and to locate partners for reproduction. This behavior is defined as locomo-
tion, and includes various types of movement such as walking, running, flying,
creeping, and swimming (Gray 1968, Day 1981, Biewener 2003). In this short re-
view, | will describe previous and recent findings on the neuronal mechanisms
underlying swimming by fish. Most fish swim using trunk muscles (axial mus-
cles) and fins. The patterns of fish locomotion using both trank muscles and fins
have been classified into undulation and oscillation (Lindsey 1978). In this chap-
ter, 1 will focus on the central mechanisms controlling undulatory swimming using
trunk muscles.
Most fish swim by alternating contractions of the axial muscles traveling in a
rostra-caudal direction (Lindsey 1978, William et al. 1989). The body musculature
103

--- Page 113 ---
104
of fish is usually organized segmentally (Romer and Parsons 1977). Spinal motor
neurons send their axons via ventral roots to innervate specific parts of each seg-
mental myotome (Wallan et al. 1985). In vertebrates, this alternating rhythmic
contraction of the axial muscles is produced by central pattern generators (CPGs)
located in each spinal segment along the entire cord (Grillner et al. 1988, Roberts
et al. 1986). For the production of swimming, excitatory drive, either from the
brain or other CPGs, is required to activate the spinal CPG in the lamprey (Grill-
ner et al. 1988). It has been demonstrated that spinal CPGs are driven by excita-
tory inputs from the brainstem in the carp Cyprinus carpio (Kashin et al. 1974).
The nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus (Nflm), located in the midbrain
tegmentum, has been identified as a brain region initiating and maintaining
swimming in the carp (Uematsu and Ikeda 1993, Uematsu and Todo 1997). Neu-
rons in the Nflm have been labeled retrogradely from the spinal cord in the salmon
Oncorhynchus nerka (Oka et al. 1986), the goldfish Carassius auratus (Prasada
Rao et al. 1987), and the zebrafish Danio rerio (Kimmel et al. 1982, Becker et al.
1997), indicating that these neurons project to the spinal cord. However, the
physiology and cytoarchitecture of neurons in the nucleus have yet to be deter-
mined in detail.
In this review, I describe the neuronal activities of Nflm neurons during swim-
ming, the connections between Nflm neurons and neurons in spinal CPGs, and the
cytoarchitecture of Nflm neurons, including their shapes, numbers, and distribu-
tions.
I will also refer to the efferent system of the cerebellum, an important structure
in regulating movement and locomotion in tetrapods (Middleton and Strick 1998).
Although the fish cerebellum is quite well developed, its functions are still poorly
understood (Ikenaga et al. 2006). For example, cerebellar lesions did not signifi-
cantly affect swimming by fish (Roberts et al. 1992). There have been many stud-
ies on the afferent connections of the cerebellum, and most sensory modalities are
known to reach this brain region (Finger 1983). In contrast, our knowledge con-
ceming the efferent connections of cerebellum is minimal. We have therefore at-
tempted to identify the cerebellar efferent neurons and their transmitters and rela-
tionships with Purkinje cells using retrograde labeling and immunohistochemical
techniques.
2 Fish Swimming
2.1 Fish Swim with use of the Trunk Muscles
Generally, fish can only swim forwards using the undulatory movement of the
trunk muscles, though they sometimes swim backward by movements of the pec-
toral fins and not the trunk muscles themselves (Lindsey 1978). An exception to
this is seen in a special fish group represented by the eels (Anguilla sps.), which
can move backward using the trunk muscles (D'Aofit and Aerts 1999) and, inter-
estingly, can even move their body after transection between the brain and spinal
cord (spinal fish, Gray 1936). 
It is still unclear how they are able to move back-
ward with the trunk muscles, though the answer to this question might be provided

--- Page 114 ---
105
in the chapter by Dr. Ayers. In the future, we will also try to clarify the unique
mechanisms of the eel CNS.
2.2 Muscular and Spinal Systems Involved in Undulatory Swimming by the
Trunk Muscles
A morphological characteristic of the trunk muscles of principal importance in es-
tablishing undulatory movements like fish swimming is their segmental structure.
The fish body is comprised of muscle segments, termed myomeres (myotomes),
which function as power sources and are arranged longitudinally, and connective
tissue myosepta, which act as flexible, articulated couplings between the myo-
meres (Figure 1). This configuration is essential for smooth and forceful undula-
tory swimming by the trunk muscles. For detailed descriptions of the structure of
the fish locomotor muscles, see Nursall (1955) and Bone (1978).
During normal forward swimming, muscles in the left and right myomeres of
the same segments contract alternately, with rostral myomeres contracting earlier.
Exceptional usages of the trunk muscles are of great interest and include the startle
reflex (C-start) mediated by the Mauthner neuron system and spawning of salmon
(see below).
YY 
) f = 
\ F} \ =| \ 
:
Y 
VRBHR4Be a
SC) 
/ te JS 
8
Fig. 1. A schematic drawing of the trunk muscle of the yellowtail Seriola quinqueradiata.
Below, appearances of transverse sections of the body at the levels of indicated by I-VI in
the top drawing. Shaded areas indicate the dark muscles. (Adapted from Tsukamoto
(1984a) with permission)
The trunk muscles consist of dark muscle (red muscle) and ordinary muscle
(white muscle) (Rayner and Keenan 1967, Tsukamoto 1984a). The former is lo-
cated mostly superficially, and in the lateral portion of the trunk along the mid-
horizontal axis around the lateral line (Figure 1). Migratory marine fish like the
skipjack tuna Katsuwonus pelamis and the yellowtail Seriola quinqueradiata are
unusual in having large volumes of deep dark muscle in addition to superficial
dark muscle (Rayner and Keenan 1967, Tsukamoto 1984a). The dark muscles are
adapted to aerobic metabolism and are used for sustainable swimming at relatively
low speeds like that in cruising. The white muscle occupies large portions of the
trunk and uses energy produced by anaerobic metabolic pathways (enzymes).
Unlike the dark muscles it tires easily due to the accumulation of lactic acid and is

--- Page 115 ---
106
usually used when fish needs to produce powerful thrust to escape predators or
capture prey. It can thus be said that, muscularly speaking, most fish are equipped
with a small but vital main-engine and a large and powerful sub-engine. For aero-
bic and anaerobic swimming performance by the yellowtail and the cod Gadus
morhua, see Tsukamoto (1984b) and Reidy et al. (2000), respectively.
In the zebrafish, Westerfield et al. (1986) demonstrated that the white muscles
are innervated by both a few larger primary and a larger number of smaller secon-
dary motor neurons, while the dark muscles are innervated only by the secondary
motor neurons. The two types of motor neuron have been identified in the larval
zebrafish (Myers 1985). There are only three primary motor neurons in each spi-
nal CPG of the adult zebrafish (Westerfield et al. 1986). The three uniquely inner-
vate different dorsoventral portions of the myomeres of the same body segments,
while the field of distribution of axons of the secondary motor neurons is not con-
fined to within their own segment. Other fishes larger than the zebrafish most
likely have many more motor neurons in each spinal segment (Fetcho and Faber
1988).
The basic, common neuronal circuit in the spinal CPG required for establish-
ment of undulatory movements has been thoroughly characterized in the frog em-
bryo (Roberts et al., 1986 and 1998) and the lampreys (Grillner et al., 1988 and
1998}. The major components of the CPG are glutamatergic excitatory descending
and glycinergic inhibitory commissural interneurons, and motor neurons. 
The
connections and functions of these neurons are quite similar to those of the
Mauthner system described below. 
Roberts et al. (1998) noted that the motor
neurons in CPGs receive three different excitatory synaptic inputs: cholinergic and
electrical inputs from neighboring motor neurons and glutamatergic inputs from
the descending interneurons. Recentry, it was also suggested that some excitatory
spinal interneurons also released acetylcholine in addition to glutamate as well as
motor neurons (Li et al. 2004). They speculated that summation of all inputs be-
tween CPGs might control swimming frequency and direction. Although it has not
been directly demonstrated that teleost fish are also equipped with the same cen-
tral systems for generating swimming rhythm, I am convinced of the existence of
circuits similar to those found in the tadpoles and lampreys, since Fetcho (1992)
and Higashijima et al. (2004ab) have found the same types of neurons and circuits
in the spinal cord of the goldfish and zebrafish, respectively.
Most fish can exhibit remarkable escape behavior when they perceive danger in
the surrounding environment, usually by the auditory sense. The affected fish
bends its body away from the sound source and moves off with a quick tail flip
following the body bend within tens of milliseconds (Faber et al. 1989). 
This be-
havior is termed the C-start, based on the body shape produced when bending.
This behavior is initiated by a pair of huge Mauthner cells (M-cell) in the tegmen-
tum of the medulla oblongata below the cerebellum and just caudal to the Nflm
(see below). One important characteristic of M-cells is that they each have one
thick commissural axon projecting the entire length of the contralateral spinal
cord, which directly or indirectly contacts all the interneurons and motor neurons
on that side. M-cells also have two large dendrites which receive sensory inputs.
Once stimuli are perceived by the fish, the M-cell closer to the sound source fires

--- Page 116 ---
107
immediately, sending neural impulses to the spinal cord. In each spinal segment,
there are excitatory descending interneurons, inhibitory commissural interneurons,
and the two types of motor neurons noted above. The excitatory interneurons con-
tact the two types of motor neurons in the spinal segment on the same side and ex-
cite them. The axons of the inhibitory interneurons cross the midline and contact
all the neurons including interneurons and motor neurons in the contralateral spi-
nal segment and completely inhibit their activity. A remarkable feature of this
neuronal circuit is that the axon of an M-cell makes synapses to excite both the
two types of interneuron and the primary motor neurons directly. As a result,
every muscle in every myosegment on one side contracts simultaneously while
those of the other side are not activated (Fetcho and Faber 1988). This is the neu-
ral basis of the C-start. 
Note, the spinal neuron types in the network for swim-
ming and the C-start in fishes are very similar to those found in the spinal cord of
the tadpole and the lamprey.
2.3 Spawning of Salmons, and a Hypothesis
In Pacific salmon Oncorhynchus keta it has been demonstrated by observations of
electrical muscle activity that eggs are laid by tonic contraction of the trunk mus-
cles, which are usually used for undulatory swimming (Uematsu et al. 1980, Ue-
matsu and Yamamori 1982, Matsushima et al. 1986). However, the spawning cen-
ter has yet to be identified in the salmon brain.
In the spinal cord of teleosts there are many inhibitory and excitatory interneu-
rons along with the two types of motor neurons 
(Uematsu et al. 1993, Fetcho
1998, Yoshida et al. 1999, Higashijima et al. 2004ab). These neurons are compo-
nents of the CPGs situated in each spinal segment, and are activated by commands
from the brain or by sensory signals, as already described. 
1 would like to suggest
the hypothesis that, besides playing a role in swimming, the spinal CPGs are used
both for the C-start and for spawning by salmon. Here the same sets of neurons in
spinal CPGs would thus be activated by descending signals coming from different
regions in the brain during swimming, escape, and spawning. | have tentatively
termed this the “multifunction spinal CPGs” theory. My hypothesis is based on
the insight that animal bodies must as far as possible be designed rationally and
reasonably. Similarly, it has been reported that swimming and struggling by
Aenopus tadpoles are driven by common CPG neurons in the cord (Soffe 1993).
3 Identification of 
a Swimming Initiation Region in the Fish Brain
3.1 Discovery of a Swimming Region
Kashin et al. (1974) first discovered a brain area which probably included neu-
ronal structures initiating swimming in the carp midbrain. Oka et al. (1986) further
suggested that the candidate neuronal structure concerned with swimming initia-
tion was either the nucleus of medial longitudinal fasciculus (Nflm) or the nucleus
ruber (red nucleus) located in the midbrain tegmentum (Oka et al.1986). At nearly
the same time, it was demonstrated in various teleosts that some Nflm neurons
project axons to the spinal cord (Kimmel et al. 1982, Prasada Rao et al. 1987,
Becker et al. 1997). Experiments involving exhaustive electric and chemical

--- Page 117 ---
108
stimulation of the tegmentum of the midbrain and the medulla oblongata in carp
have provided evidence that the Nflm is the brain center initiating swimming
(Uematsu and Ikeda 1993, Uematsu and Todo 1997). As already reported in
mammals (Grillner et al. 1998), if the strength of stimulation of the Nflm is in-
creased, the fish increases its tail beat frequency (Uematsu and Ikeda 1993).
3.2 Electrical Activities and Functions of Nflm Neurons
In the tadpole and lamprey, it has been suggested that tonic excitatory drive from
the brainstem is responsible for initiating and maintaining locomotion (Roberts et
al. 1998, Grillner et al. 1998, Li et al., 2006). If the Nflm is a brain region control-
ling swimming in fish, we would expect electrode recording to reveal neurons ac-
tive during swimming in the Nflm. 
Two types of neuronal activities were re-
corded from the Nflm in both immobilized and swimming carp (Baba et al. 2003,
Uematsu et al. 2007). One type of neuron, encountered more often, was character-
ized by tonic, continuous firing that occurred just before swimming and was main-
tained at high levels throughout a swimming episode. 
In contrast, the other type
of Nflm neuron had a markedly decreased firing rate during swimming. It was
proposed that the former type of Nflm neuron probably drives spinal CPGs toni-
cally during swimming in fish (Baba et al. 2003, Uematsu et al. 2007). It was also
suggested that some tonic Nflm neurons may remain inactive during slower
swimming and be recruited to strengthen the drive to spinal CPGs for faster
swimming (Uematsu et al. 2007). The functions of the other type of Nflm neurons
remain unclear.
3.3 Cytoarchitecture of Nflm and its Connections to Spinal Neurons
3.3.1 Cytoarchitecture of Nflm neurons
The Nflm is located in the midbrain tegmentum just caudal to the posterior com-
missure and beneath the midbrain ventricle. As a whole the Nflm has a shape like
a gull wing around the rim of the floor of the midbrain ventricle when viewed ros-
trally (Uematsu et al. 2007). The caudal end of the nucleus is more difficult to de-
termine, since it is continuous with the oculomotor nucleus (NIID and the
trochlear nucleus (NIV). However, the overall appearance of the Nflm and other
nuclei became apparent in three-dimensional reconstructions of Nissl-stained sec-
tions. The total number of neurons in this region was estimated to be about 600 in
the carp (Uematsu et al. 2007).
The difficulty in determining the boundaries of this region could be overcome
using a molecular approach, with in situ hybridization targeting mRNA coding
choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the acetylcholine-synthesizing enzyme. Neu-
rons in NIIf and NIV should contain ChAT mRNA, since they are somatic motor
nuclei consisting of neurons containing acetylcholine as the transmitter (Moon et
al., 2005). Neurons in Nflm were labeled retrogradely by applying Biotinylated
Dextran Amines (BDA) in the rostral cord. On alternating serial sections, there
were 164 Nflm neurons labeled retrogradely and 254 ChAT mRNA-positive neu-
rons at maximum among three carp examined (Uematsu et al. 2007). 
The Nflm
and NIII overlap rostrocaudally over a range of 180-200 um in the carp. 
Nflm
neurons have been classified into two types according to the location and the pro-

--- Page 118 ---
109
Jection patterns of their dendrites: one type is located medially with dendrites ex-
tending into both ipsilateral and contralateral sides of the brain, the other is located
laterally with dendrites confined ipsilaterally in the zebrafish (Kimmel et al. 1982,
Lee and Eaton 1991, Lee et al. 1993). Gahtan et al. (2005) have recently demon-
strated using a laser microdissection technique that they share functions in control-
ling prey capture behavior in the zebrafish,
If Nflm neurons drive spinal CPG neurons, their transmitter may well be gluta-
mate, since glutamate is the usual excitatory amino acid transmitter in vertebrates.
Immunocytochemistry using a specific anti-glutamate monoclonal antibody en-
abled us 
to 
demonstrate the existence of approximately 400 
glutamate-
immunoreactive neurons in Nflm (Uematsu et al. 2007). Many labeled axons pro-
jecting to the cord were also observed in the medial longitudinal fasciculus (flm).
In a very important report Gahtan and O’Malley (2003) emphasised two fea-
tures of the patterns of projection of Nflm neurons in larval zebrafish. First, collat-
erals of ail three types of Nflm neurons axon give rise to their most extensive ar-
bors in the caudal medulla and rostral cord. 
They suggested that these arbors
might influence other neurons involved in swimming. Second, axon collaterals of
one type of neuron have contralateral in addition to ipsilateral projections. This
discovery was quite new, and suggests that the mechanisms controlling fish
swimming may be complex.
In a similar experiment using rather classical methods, Uematsu et al. (2007)
demonstrated that 70 to 460 Nflm neurons were retrogradely labeled when BDA-
soaked gels were placed in incisions made at several segmental levels in the cords
of nineteen adult carp. 
Unexpectedly, a clear linear correlation was found be-
tween the number of labeled neurons and the segment level in which BDA was
applied, indicating that rostral portions of cord receive projections from larger
numbers of Nflm neurons (Uematsu et al, 2007). This finding is consistent with
the observation that more rostral levels of the cord receive stronger excitatory in-
put in Xenopus tadpoles (Tunstall and Roberts, 1994).
On the other hand, Prasada Rao ef ai. (1987) reported that approximately 80
Nflm neurons in the goldfish were retrogradely labeled by tracer injections into
the caudal level of the spinal cord. The authors argued that every Nflm neuron
projected throughout the spinal cord, in contrast to the findings we have obtained.
3.3.2 Spinal Projections of Nflm neurons and Their Contacts with Spinal
Neurons
The connections of Nflm neurons with spinal neurons also require clarification. It
has already been clearly demonstrated that many individually identifiable spinal
interneurons make contact with the axon collaterals of Nflm neurons (Gahtan and
O’Malley 2003). In our study, it was demonstrated using two different labeling
procedures that the axon collaterals labeled anterogradely made contact not only
with glycinergic and GABAergic interneurons labeled immunocytochemically but
also with motor neurons labeled retrogradely (Uematsu et al. 2007). We have also
observed connections with GABAergic and glycinergic spinal interneurons la-
beled with specific antibodies (Uematsu et al. 2007). Both of these studies
strongly suggest that some Nflm neurons project to the cord and directly connect

--- Page 119 ---
110
with spinal neurons. It can also be concluded that as many as 400 glutamatergic
Nflm neurons project onto spinal neurons included in the CPGs and exert excita-
tory drive on them to initiate swimming (Uematsu et al. 2007)..
3.3.3 Remote Control of Fish Swimming; Wired and Unwired Methods
The demonstration that the Nflm is a brain region essential for the initiation and
maintenance of swimming movement by fish is of considerable interest. Mi-
crostimulation of the mecencephalic area including Nflm was attempted through
an electrode implanted in the brain in free-moving goldfish under wired and wire-
less conditions. 
For this purpose, we developed a two-channel wireless mi-
crostimulator in which the stimulating currents, channels used, and durations of
stimulation were controlled via infrared command signals emitted from a control
box equipped with an infrared LED (Kobayashi et al. in preparation). Using this
system the artificial control of goldfish swimming in the horizontal plane was suc-
cessfully performed. When the Nflm on one side was stimulated, the fish contin-
ued turning to that side, but when Nflm was stimulated on both sides simultane-
ously the fish swam forward (Kobayashi et al. in preparation). These findings
provide strong evidence that the Nfim is a center controlling swimming in fish.
4 The Cerebellum as a Regulatory Center of Fish Swimming
4.1 Efferent Connections of the Cerebellum and Other Brain Regions Con-
cerned with Swimming
The cerebellum of teleosts has certain features unique among vertebrates (Finger
1983). One is that the Purkinje cells lack efferent axons extending out of the cere-
bellum; the cerebellum instead has unique efferent neurons, the eurydendroid cells
(Pouwels 1978, Finger 1978 and 1983). In addition, unlike other animals, the
cerebellum in teleosts receives various types of sensory input directly from the en-
tire body. 
Overall, the afferent pathways of cerebellum in teleosts have been
studied thoroughly (Finger 1983). In contrast, findings on the efferent system, es-
pecially of the valvula cerebelli, are quite limited and feature many uncertainties,
as pointed out by Ikenaga et al. (2002). The valvula cerebelli is another unique
part of the teleost cerebellum. The brain areas targeted by cerebellar efferent fibers
were demonstrated by an anterograde tract-tracing method using a precision
microinjection into the corpus and valvula cerebelli in goldfish Gkenaga et al.
2002 and 2006). Fibers arising from the corpus terminated in many nuclei in the
diencephalon, Nfim, optic tectum, and nucleus ruber in the midbrain, and the me-
dial and lateral lobes of the valvula cerebelli. 
These findings suggest that the
cerebellum is probably involved in motor control in fishes. It has also been pro-
posed that the cerebellum of teleost fishes has higher functions already known to
exist in mammalian cerebellum (Ikenaga et al. 2002).
4.2 Efferent Neurons of the Teleost Cerebellum
Until quite recently, no real picture of the cerebellar efferent neurons, the eury-
dendroid cells, was available, with only old and limited information, most of
which had been obtained by Golgi or earlier HRP techniques. For this reason, a

--- Page 120 ---
111
tract-tracing experiment using tracers and antibodies was performed to demon-
strate the cytoarchitecture of the cerebellar efferent neurons. Neurons assuming
spindle or polygonal shape with a few primary dendrites of the corpus cerebelli
were back-filled by BDA injection at the ventral base of the cerebellum (Ikenaga
et al. 2005). While most of them were located in the Purkinje cell layer (ganglion
cell layer), some were also found in the molecular and granular cell layers. Based
on their appearance and location, it was concluded that they were so-called eury-
dendroid celis (Ikenaga et al. 2005). In addition, it was suggested that approxi-
mately half of eurydendroid cells were aspartate-immunopositive, and that all cells
retrogradely labeled were negative for staining with Zebrin I antiserum (Ikenaga
et al. 2005). Zebrin I] is a specific marker for Purkinje cells of vertebrates (Lan-
noo et al. 1991; Meek et al. 1992). One half of the deep cerebellar nucleus (DCN)
neurons in tetrapods contains aspartate as a transmitter (Ottersen 1993). The large
cells with GABA-like-immunoreactivity found in the Purkinje cell layer are
probably Purkinje cells (Ottersen 1993). 
In addition, we observed that retro-
gradely labeled neurons were entangled with Zebrin Il-positive fibers, as has been
reported in a mormyrid (Lannoo et al. 1991), suggesting that the eurydendroid
cells are innervated by Purkinje cells. Based on these findings, it was concluded
that the eurydendroid cells are cerebellar efferent neurons in cyprinids and are
homologous with DCN neurons.
4,3 Effects of Ablations of the Cerebellum on Swimming by Fish
Although the cerebellum of mammals is an important center for regulation of
forms of locomotion such as walking, running, stepping, and scratching (Ar-
shavsky and Orlovsky 1986, Orlovsky et al. 1999), removal of a part of the corpus
cerebelli in the goldfish and the rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss appeared to
affect neither swimming nor maneuverability (Roberts et al. 1992). To clarify the
functions of the corpus cerebelli in the control of sustained swimming or cruising
in the goldfish, Matsumoto et al. (2007a) carried out experiments to test the effects
of partial ablation of the corpus cerebelli on swimming against running water.
Most of the ablated fish could perform sustained swimming, indicating that the
corpus cerebelli is not required for generation of the simple swimming pattern.
However, they found that both tail-beat amplitude and frequency in the ablated
goldfish tended to be greater than those in the control fish at the same swimming
speed. The thrust index employed was significantly larger in the ablated fish than
in the control fish at higher swimming speeds (faster than 2.0 body lengths per
second). This finding may suggest that the ablated goldfish needed more thrust
generated by tail beats than the control fish to maintain sustained swimming at
higher speeds. They therefore concluded that, in the goldfish, the corpus cerebelli
plays no major role in posture control or generation of simple forward swimming
movement, although the integrity of the corpus cerebelli is important for normal
swimming gait. 
This conclusion is consistent in part with the finding that the
cerebellum is involved in reflex movement of the pectoral fins in the dogfish
Scyliorhinus canicula (Paul and Roberts, 1979).

--- Page 121 ---
112
4.4 Electrical Activities of Cerebellar Neurons in Fish
Identification and classification of neuronal activities in the fish cerebellum have
been carried out (Peterson 1972, Kotchabhakdi 1976, Lee and Bullock 1990).
Following these studies, Matsumoto et al. (2007b) examined neuronal activities
extracellularly in the cerebellum of immobilized and swimming goldfish to deter-
mine which types of neuronal activities could be discriminated. By analyzing the
waveforms of action potentials of cerebellar neurons and the depths of recording,
5 types of neural activities could be estimated to originate from 3 identified types
of neurons, including Purkinje cells, eurydendroid cells, and granule cells, in both
in situ and in vivo experiments (Matsumoto et al. 2007b). Among these neurons,
Purkinje cells are the easiest to identify in animals from fishes to mammals, be-
cause they all discharge with two typical spikes, simple and complex (Kotchab-
hakdi 1976). 
In addition, it was observed for the first time that firing patterns of
Purkinje cells and the eurydendroid neurons, both of which were individually
identified, changed in relation to turning movements (Matsumoto et al. 2007b).
These studies have also indicated that disturbance of fish movement is to some
extent inevitable in the “wired” condition. We have therefore recently developed a
prototype of a wireless neural-signal sensing LSI (Yoshida et al. 2004ab). Using
such recent techniques and devices, we believe that we will be able to comprehen-
sively determine the neuronal basis of various fish swimming patterns in the near
future.
5 Conclusion
Probably the majority of Nflm neurons are glutamatergic and innervate spinal
CPG neurons to initiate swimming. However, many issues remain to be addressed
regarding the Nfim and swimming, including the following: 1. The specific func-
tions of morphologically different Nflm neurons projecting in the cord. 2. The af-
ferent and efferent connections of Nflm neurons with other brain regions, espe-
cially the cerebellum, the optic tectum, and the telencephalon. Simultaneous
intracellular recordings from Nflm neurons and others structures will be needed to
clarify these. 
3. The types of brainstem neurons involved in different fish behav-
iors, especially spawning by salmon. 4. Determination whether the same neuron
groups in the spinal cord are shared for different behaviors. Studies of this type
will also provide important clues to deepening understanding of brain mecha-
nisms.
The cerebellum projects to the Nflm as well as to the nucleus ruber and hence
appears to be an important center for the control of motor function in fish. Cere-
bellar efferents originate from eurydendroid cells which are distinct from Purkinje
cells. However, the functions of the cerebellum and particularly the valvula cere-
belliin in teleosts remain largely unclear. Electrophysiological and micro-lesion
studies of the cerebellum will prove fruitful in gaining further insight into this
brain region.

--- Page 122 ---
113
Acknowledgement
I should like to thank Masayuki Yoshida and Alan Roberts for comments on
the manuscript.
References
Arshavsky TI and GN Orlovsky (1986) Role of the cerebellum in the control of rhythmic
movements. In: Grillner S, Stein PSG, Stuart DG, Forssbere H, Herman RM
(Eds)Neurobilogy of Vertebrate Locomotion. Macmillan, Houndmills , London,
pp.677-689
Baba Y, Kake Y, Yoshida M, Uematsu K (2003) Activities of mesencephalic nucleus neu-
rons during fictive swimming of the carp Cyprinus carpio. Fish Sci 69: 581-588
Becker T, Wullimann MF, Becker CG, Bernhardt RR, Schachner M (1997) Axonal re-
growth after spinal cord transection in adult zebrafish. 
J Comp Neurol 377: 577-595
Biewener AA (2003) Animal Locomotion. Oxford University Press, New York, pp.281
Bone Q (1978) Locomotor Muscle. In: Hoar WS, Randall DJ (Eds) Fish Physiology Vol. 7.
Academic Press, New York San Francisco London, pp 361-424
D'Aott K, Aerts P (1999) A kinematic comparison of forward and backward swimming in
the eel Anguilla anguilla. 
J Exp Biol 11: 1511-1521
Day MH (1981) Vertebrate Locomotion. Academic Press, London, New York, pp. 471
Faber DS, Fetcho JR, Korn H (1989) Neuronal networks underlying the escape responses in
goldfish. General implications for motor control. Ann N Y Acad Sei 563: 11-33
Fetcho JR (1992) The spinal motor system in early vertebrates and some of its evolutionary
changes. Brain Behav Evol 2-3: 82-97
Fetcho JR, Faber DS (1988) Identification of motoneurons and interneurons in the spinal
network for escapes initiated by the Mauthner cell in goldfish. 
J Neurosci 8: 4192-
4213
Fetcho JR, Lin KS (1998) Zebrafish as a model system for studying neuronal circuits and
behavior. Ann NY Acad Sci 860: 333-345
Finger TE (1978) Efferent neurons of the teleost cerebellum. Brain Res 153: 608-614
Finger TE (1983) Organization of the teleost cerebellum. In: Northcutt RG, Davis RE (Eds)
Fish Neurobiology Vol. 1. University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor, pp. 261-284
Gahtan E, O'Malley DM (2003) Visually guided injection of identified reticulospinal neu-
rons in zebrafish: a survey of spinal arborization patterns. J Comp Neurol 459:186-200
Gahtan E, Bier H (2003) Of lasers, mutants, and see-through brains: functional neuroanat-
omy in zebrafish. J Neurobiol 59:147-161
Gahtan E, Tanger PH, Bier H (2005) Visual prey capture in larval zebrafish is controlled by
identified reticulospinal neurons downstream of the tectum. J Neurosci 25: 9294-9303
Gahtan E, Sankrithi N, Campos JB, O'Malley DM (2002) Evidence for a widespread brain
stem escape network in larval zebrafish. J Neurophysiol 87: 608 - 614
Gibb AC, Jayne BC, Lauder GV (1994) Kinematics of pectoral fin locomotion in the blue-
gill sunfish Lepomis macrochirus. J Exp Biol 189: 133-161
Gray J (1936) Studies in animal locomotion. IV. The neuromuscular mechanism of swim-
ming in the eel. J exp Biol 203: 170-180
Gray J (1968) Animal Locomotion. Weidenfeld and Nicolson, London, pp. 479
Grillner S, Parker D, El Manira A (1998) Vertebrate Locomotion — A lamprey perspective.
In: Kiehn O, Harris-Warrick RM, Jordan LM, Hultborn H, Kudo N (Eds) Neuronal
Mechanisms for Generating Locomotor Activities. The New York Academy of Sci-
ences, New York, pp. 1-18

--- Page 123 ---
114
Grillner S, Buchanan JT, Wallén P, Brodin L. (1988) Neural control of locomotion in lower
vertebrates: from behavior to ionic mechanisms. In: Cohen AH, Rossignol S, Grillner
S (Eds) Neural Control of Rhythmic Movements in Vertebrates. John Wiley and Sons,
New York, pp 1-40
Grillner S, Deliagina T, Ekeberg O, El Manira A, Hill RH, Lansner A, Orlovsky GN,
Wallén P (1995) Neural networks that co-ordinate locomotion and body orientation in
lamprey. Trends Neurosci 18: 270-279
Higashijima S, Mandel G, Fetcho JR (2004a) Distribution of prospective glutamatergic,
glycinergic, and GABAergic neurons in embryonic and larval zebrafish. 
J Comp Neu-
rol 480: 1-18
Higashijima S, Schaefer M, Fetcho JR (2004b) Neurotransmitter properties of spinal in-
terneurons in embryonic and larval zebrafish. 
J Comp Neurol 480: 19-37
Ikenaga T, Yoshida M, Uematsu K (2002) Efferent connections of the cerebellum of the
goldfish, Carassius auratus. Brain Behav Evol 60: 36-51
Ikenaga T, Yoshida M, Uematsu K (2005) Morphology and immunchistochemistry of ef-
ferent neurons of the goldfish corpus cerebelli. 
J Comp Neurol 487: 300-311
Ikenaga T, Yoshida M, Uematsu K (2006) Cerebellar efferent neurons in teleost fish. The
Cerebellum 5: 268-274
Kashin SM, Feldman AG, Orlovsky GN (1974) Locomotion of fish evoked by electrical
stimulation of the brain. Brain Res 82: 41-47
Kimmel CB, Powell SL, Metcalfe WK (1982) Brain neurons which project to the spinal
cord in young larvae of the zebrafish. 
J. Comp Neurol 205: 112-127
Kobayashi N, Yoshida M, Matsumoto N, Uematsu K (2007) Artificial control of swimming
in goldfish by brain stimulations. Comp Biochem Physiol (in preparation)
Kotchabhakdi N (1976) Functional circuitry of the goldfish cerebellum. J Comp Physiol
112: 47-73
Lannoo MJ, Brochu G, Maler L, Hawkes R (1991) Zebrin-II immunoreactivity in the rat
and in the weakly electric teleost Eigenmannia (Gymonotiformes) reveals three modes
of Purkinje cell development. 
J Comp Neurol 310: 215-233
Lee LT, Bullock TH (1990) Cerebellar units show several types of early responses to telen-
cephalic stimulation in catfish. Brain Behav Evol 35: 278-290
Lee RKK, Eaton RC (1991) Identifiable reticulospinal neurons of the adult zebrafish,
Brachydanio rerio. 
J Comp Neurol 304:34-52.
Lee RKK, Eaton RC, Zottoli SJ (1993) Segmental arrangement of reticulospinal neurons in
the goldfish hindbrain. J Comp Neurol 329: 539-556
Li W-C, Soffe SR, Roberts A (2004) Glutamate and acetyl choline co-release by spinal
neurons, PNAS 101 (43), 15488-15493
Li W-C, Soffe SR, Wolf E, Roberts A (2006) Persistent Responses to Brief Stimuli: Feed-
back Excitation among Brainstem Neurons. J Neurosci 26:4026-4035
Lindsey CC (1978) Form, Function, and Locomotory Habitds in Fish. In: Hoar WS, Ran-
dali DJ (Eds) Fish Physiology Vol. 7. Academic Press, New York, San Francisco,
London, pp 1-100
Liu DW, Westerfield M (1990) The formation of terminal fields in the absence of competi-
tive interactions among primary motoneurons in the zebrafish. 
] Neurosci 10: 3947-59
Matsumoto N, Yoshida M, Uematsu K (2007a) Effects of partial ablation of the cerebellum
on sustained swimming in goldfish. Brain Behav Evol (in printing)
Matsumoto N, Yoshida M, Uematsu K (2007b) Recording cerebellar neuron activities in
swimming goldfish. Fish Sci (in printing)
Matsushima T, Kitamura S, Takei K, Satou M, Okumoto N, Ueda K (1986) An electromy-
ographic study of sexual behavior in himé salmon (landlocked socheye salmon, On-
corhynchus nerka). Zool Sci 3: 563-567.

--- Page 124 ---
115
Meek J (1992) Comparative aspects of cerebellar organization. From mormyrids to mam-
mals. J Morph 30:37-51
Meek J, Hafmans TGM, Maler L, Hawkes R (1992) Distribution of zebrin-II in the gigan-
tocerebellum of the mormyrid fish Gnathonemus petersii compared with other
teleosts. 
J Comp Neurol 316:17-31
Middleton FA and Strick PL (1998) The cerebellum: an overview. Trends Neurosci 21:367-
369
Moon SJ, Fujikawa Y, Nishihara T, Kono S, Kozono K, Ikenaga T, Esaka M, lijima N, Na-
gamatsu Y, Yoshida M, Uematsu K (2005) Partial cloning and expression of mRNA
coding choline acetyltransferase in the spinal cord of the goldfish, Carassius auratus.
Comp Biochem Physiol B 141: 253-260
Mori S, Matsui T, Kuze B, Asanome M, Nakajima K, Matsuyama K (1998) Cerebellar-
induced locomotion: Reticulospinal control of spinal rhythm generating mechanism in
cats. Ann NY Acad Sci 860: 94-105
Myers PZ (1985) Spinal motoneurons of the larval zebrafish. J Comp Neurol 236: 555-561
Nursall JR (1955) The lateral musculature and the swimming of fish. Proc Zool Soc Lond
126: 127-143
Oka Y, Satou M, Ueda K (1986) Descending pathways to the spinal cord in the himeé
salmon (landlocked red salmon, Oncorhynchus nerka). 
J Comp Neurol 254: 91-103
Orlovsky GN, Deliagina TG, Grillner S (1999) Neural Control of Locomotion. Oxford
University Press, Oxford, NewYork, pp.175-204
Ottersen OP (1993) Neurotransmitters in the cerebellum. Rev Neurol 149: 629-636
Paul DH, Roberts BL (1979) The significance of cerebellar function for a reflex movement
of the dogfish. J Comp Physiol A134: 69-74
Peterson RH (1972) Electrical responses of goldfish cerebellum, responses to parallel fibre
and peduncle stimulation. Brain Res 41: 67-79
Paul DH, Roberts BL (1979) The significance of cerebellar function for a reflex movement
of the dogfish. J Comp Physiol. A134: 69-74
Pouwels E (1978) On the development of the cerebellum of the trout, Salmo gairdneri. III.
Development of neuronal elements. Anat Embryol 153: 37-54
Prasada Rao PD, Jadhao AG, Sharma SC (1987) Descending projection neurons to the spi-
nal cord of the goldfish, Carassius auratus. 
J Comp Neurol 265: 96-108
Rayner MD, Keenan MJ (1967) Role of red and white muscles in the swimming of the
skipjack tuna. Nature 214: 392-393
Reidy SP, Kerr SR, Nelson JA (2000) Aerobic and anaerobic swimming performance of
individual Atlantic cod. J Exp Biol 203: 347-357
Roberts BL, van Rossem A, de Jager S (1992) The influence of cerebellar lesions on the
swimming performance of the trout. J Exp Biol 167:171-178.
Roberts A, Dale N, Soffe SRW (1986) Sustained responses to brief stimuli: swimming in
Xenopus embryos. J Exp Biol 112: 321-335
Roberts A, Soffe SR, Dale N (1984) Spinal interneurons and swimming in frog embryos.
In: Grillner 8, Stein PSG, Stuart DG, Forssberg H, Herman RM (Eds) Neurobiology of
Vertebrate Locomotion. Macmillan Press, Hampshire London, pp. 279-306
Roberts A, Soffe SR, Wolf ES, Yoshida M, Zhao, F-Y (1998) Central circuits controlling
locomotion in young frog tadpoles. In: Kiehn O, Harris- Warrick, Jordan LM, Hultborn
H, Kudo N (Eds) Neuronal Mechanisms for Generating Locomotor Activities, The
New York Academy of Sciences, New York, pp. 19-34
Romer AS, Parsons TS (1977) The Vertebrate Body, 5th ed, W. B. Saunders
Co.Piladeiphia,USA,
Rosenberger LJ (2001) Pectoral fin locomotion in batoid fishes: Undulation versus oscilla-
tion. J Exp Biol 204: 379-394

--- Page 125 ---
116
Soffe SR (1993) Two distinct rhythmic motor patterns are driven by common premotor and
motor neurons in a simple vertebrate spinal cord. J Neurosci 13: 4456-4469
Tsukamoto,K. (1984a) The role of the red and white muscles during swimming of the yel-
low tail. Nippon Suisan Gakkaishi 50: 2025-2030
Tsukamoto,K. (1984b)} Contribution of the red and white muscles to the power output re-
quired for swimming of the yellow tail. Nippon Suisan Gakkaishi 50: 2031-2042
Tunstall MJ, Roberts A (1994) A longitudinal gradient of synaptic drive in the spinal cord
of Xenopus embryos and its role in co-ordination of swimming. J. Physiol (Lond) 474:
393-405
Uematsu K, Yamamori K, Hanyu I, Hibiya T (1980) Role of the trunk musculatures in ovi-
position of chum salmon, Oncorhynchus keta. Nippon Suisan Gakkaishi 46: 395-400
Uematsu K, Yamamori K (1982) Body vibration as a timing cue for spawning in chum
salmon. Comp Biochem Physiol 72A: 591-594
Uematsu K, Ikeda T (1993) The midbrain locomotor region and induced swimming in the
carp, Cyprinus carpio. Nippon Suisan Gakkaishi 59: 783-788
Uematsu K, Todo T (1997) Identification of the midbrain locometor nuclei and their de-
scending pathways in the teleost carp, Cyprinus carpio. Brain Res 773:1-7
Uematsu K, Shirasaki M, Storm-Mathisen J (1993) GABA- and glycine-immunoreactive
neurons in the spinal cord of the carp, Cyprinus carpio. J Comp Neurol 332: 59-68
Uematsu K, Baba Y, Kake Y, Ikenaga T, Moon S-J, Miyai Y, Yoshida M (2007) Central
mechanisms underlying fish swimming. Brain Behav Evol 69: 142-150
Williams T, Grillner S, Smoljaninov VV, Wallén P, Kashin S, Rossignol 8 (1989) Locomo-
tion in lamprey and trout: The relative timing of activation and movement. J Exp Biol
143: 559-566
Wallén P, Grillner S, Feldman JL, Berglt S (1985) Dorsal and ventral myotome metoneu-
rons and their input during fictive locomotion in lamprey. J Neurosci 5: 654-661
Webb PW (1978) Hydrodynamics: Nonscombroid fish. In: Hoar WS, Randall DJ (Eds)
Fish Physiology Vol. 7. Academic Press, New York, San Francisco, London, pp 190-
237
Westerfield M, McMurray JV, Eisen JS (1986) Identified motoneurons and their innerva-
tion of axial muscles in the zebrafish. J Neurosci 6: 2267-2277
Yoshida M, Fudoji M, Sakamoto H, Uematsu K (1999) Posthatching development of spinal
motoneurons in the angelfish Pterophyllum scalare. Brain Behav Evol 53: 180-186
Yoshida T, Mashimo T, Akagi M, Iwata A, Yoshida M, Uematsu K (2004a) A design of
neural signal sensing LSI with multi-input-channels. IEICE Trans FUNDAMENTALS
E87A: 376-383.
Yoshida T, Akagi M, Mashimo T, Iwata A, Yoshida M, Uematsu K (2004b) Design of a
wireless neural-sensing LSI. IEICE Trans Electron E87C: 996-1002

--- Page 126 ---
Chapter 10
Underwater Acoustical Sensing Behavior of
Porpoises
Tomonari Akamatsu', Ding Wang’, Kexiong Wang’, and
Yasuhiko Naito’
' Fisheries Research Agency of Japan, 7620-7 Kamisu, Ibaraki 314-
0408, Japan
* Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan
430072, People’s Republic of China
* National Institute of Polar Research, 9-10, Kaga 1-chome, Itabashi-
ku, Tokyo 173-8515, Japan
Summary. Detecting objects in their paths is a fundamental perceptional
function of moving organisms. Potential risks and rewards, such as prey,
predators, conspecifics or non-biological obstacles, must be detected so
that an animal can modify its behavior accordingly. However, to date few
studies have considered how animals in the wild focus their attention. Dol-
phins and porpoises are known to actively use sonar or echolocation. A
newly developed miniature data logger attached to a porpoise allows for
individual recording of acoustical search efforts and inspection distance
based on echolocation. In this study, we analyzed the biosonar behavior of
eight free-ranging finless porpoises and demonstrated that these animals
inspect the area ahead of them before swimming silently into it as depicted
in the figure. Before to get out of the inspected area, the porpoise use so-
nar. The porpoises inspected distances up to 77 m, whereas their swim-
ming distance without using sonar was less than 20 m. The inspection dis-
tance was long enough to ensure a wide safety margin before facing real
risks or rewards. Once a potential prey item was detected, porpoises ad-
justed their inspection distance from the remote target throughout their ap-
proach. Application of biosonar for biomimetic sonar is discussed.
Key words. echolocation, cetacean, finless porpoise, sonar, dolphin
1 Introduction
Sonar abilities of dolphins and porpoises have been extensively studied
[1]. Not only can these animals detect a remote target using sonar, but they
117

--- Page 127 ---
118
can also precisely discriminate its size, thickness and material composition
[1]. In addition to controlled captive experiments, sonar signals of wild
dolphins and porpoises have been examined [2, 3, 4] Sonar signals of dol-
phins and porpoises consist of high intensity and high frequency ultrasonic
pulse trains that stand out well against ambient noises even in the wild [5].
The number of ultrasonic pulses emitted is considered an appropriate indi-
cator of the search effort made by an animal. Moreover, the target range of
the sonar used by dolphins can be estimated by the inter-click interval [1,
6]. These signals can easily be recorded and can provide information about
the timing and the distance over which the echolocating animal uses its
biosonar. This makes dolphins and porpoises some of the most appropriate
model organisms in which to observe biosonar behavior in the wild.
However, the problem of recording the sonar signals of free-ranging
dolphins and porpoises simultaneously with underwater behavior has re-
mained largely unsolved. Hydrophone systems can observe individual vo-
calizing cetaceans for only a limited time and they record little behavioral
information [7, 2, 8]. 
A mobile video camera carried by a human diver can
record behavior and vocalizations only during brief encounters with the
animals [9]. Although underwater sound recording systems have recently
been attached to large marine mammals [10, 11, 12, 13], few studies have
succeeded 
at recording ultrasonic 
sonar signals 
concurrently with
underwater behavior of individual dolphins and porpoises [14, 15, 16].
Furthermore, none of the data logger systems attached to these animals can
exclude vocalizations from other nearby individuals. These data logger
systems to record vocalizations are therefore inappropriate for studies of
animals that swim in groups, such as dolphins and porpoises.
To investigate the biosonar behavior of aquatic animals, we developed a
miniature stereo acoustic data logger and used it on eight free-ranging por-
poises in an oxbow of the Yangtze River, China. Time-sequence data of
sonar events and underwater behavior were recorded for individuals. In
addition, the direction of the sound source was stored in the data logger in
order to exclude sonar signals from other individuals. Here we examine the
acoustic activity and behavior of free-ranging echolocating finless por-
poises in a large open water system.
2 Methods
Until 1972, the experimental site was a tributary of the Yangtze River, and
water still enters from the main stream during every flood season [17].
This oxbow lake, part of Tian-e-Zhou Baiji National Natural Reserve of

--- Page 128 ---
119
the Yangtze River, Hubei, China (29.30'-29.37'N, 112.13'-112.48'E), is ap-
proximately 21 km long and 1 to 2 km wide. It was established by the Chi-
nese government in 1992 as a reserve for baiji (Lipotes vexillifer) and
finless porpoises. Since 1990, 49 finless porpoises have been introduced
from the main population in the river. Finless porpoises in the lake survive
without supplemental food and are observed to reproduce annually. The
environment of the lake is considered to be similar to the natural habitat of
this species [18].
A miniature stereo pulse event recorder (W20-AS, Little Leonardo, To-
kyo, Japan, diameter: 22 mm; length: 122 mm; weight: 77 g) was devel-
oped for this research. The data logger consisted of two hydrophones (Sys-
tem Giken Co. Ltd., -210dB/V sensitivity), an analogue-digital converter, a
band pass filter (70 kHz to 300 kHz) to eliminate noise and 256 MB flash
memory and a CPU (PIC18F6620, Microchip, China) inside a pressure-
resistant aluminum cylinder. The storage capacity of this system allows re-
cording of the intensity, timing and source direction of ultrasonic pulses
for up to 60 hours with a sampling rate of 2,000 events per second. The
two miniature hydrophones were situated at the front and the back ends of
the device. The sound source direction is calculated from inter-hydrophone
differences in sound arrival time stored in the data logger. The source di-
rection was used to exclude vocalizations coming from nearby individuals.
The dynamic range was between 129 dB peak to peak (reference pressure
1 uPa at 1 m) to 157 dB. The resolution of time difference was 542 nano-
seconds. Simultaneously, swim speed, dive depth, heaving and surging
body acceleration were recorded by a behavior data logger (diameter: 21
mm; length: 114 mm; weight: 60 g, PD2GT, Little Leonardo, Tokyo, Ja-
pan). Swimming speed was essential for calculating the swimming dis-
tance of the animals; the acceleration parameters were not used in analyses
thereafter.
Nine finless porpoises were captured safely in the reserve using round
net in October 2003 and secured safely in an enclosure. One animal carried
two acoustic data loggers on both sides for calibration purposes to compare
the received sound pressure levels on each side. The data obtained from
this individual were not used for this paper. Each data logger was equipped
with a suction cup (Canadian Tire Corp.), a VHF transmitter (MM130,
Advanced Telemetry Systems, USA) and floatation material (expanded
polyvinyl chloride, Klegecell #55, Kaneka Co. Ltd., Japan) to ensure posi-
tive buoyancy for easier retrieval after spontaneous release from the ani-
mals. The antenna of the transmitter was designed to be out of the water
after detachment and to remain approximately perpendicular to the surface
to detect strong radio transmission. The drag force of the whole data logger
system was measured in a fluid dynamical experiment tank at the National

--- Page 129 ---
120
Research Institute of Fisheries Engineering, Japan, and was found to be
less than 60 g at the animals' average 0.89 m/s cruising speed. The weights
of the complete acoustic and behavior data logger systems in air were 216
g and 197 g, respectively. The weights of the data logger systems were ad-
justed to 20 g positive buoyancy in water. The data logger was fixed to the
side of the body in the upper posterior direction from the pectoral fin; this
area was the least affected by body movements and therefore ensured a
long attachment time. Recording the sonar signals of finless porpoises was
possible at this position even for off-axis sound detection [15].
To retrieve the data logger systems, the radio signals were monitored by
two antennae (RX-155M7/W, Radix, Japan) from the top of the three-story
field station building beside the oxbow. When a continuous radio signal
was received, a data logger was considered to be floating. Retrieval opera-
tions were started six or more hours after release to avoid any disturbance
to the animals. This experiment was conducted under a permit issued by
the Fisheries Management Department of Hubei Province.
The time-sequence data from the acoustic and behavior data loggers were
synchronized by the time stamp of the data file. Low-intensity signals be-
low 136 dB, such as surface reflection, were excluded by off-line analyses
using new custom software on MATLAB (The MathWorks, Massachu-
setts, USA) and Igor (WaveMetrics, Oregon, USA). Splash noises during
respiration were easily identified and excluded at dive depths less than 0.3
m, which is six times the resolution of the depth meter (5 cm) on the be-
havior data logger. The sonar signals of dolphins and porpoises have a
pulse train structure [1]. Inter-click train interval was defined as 200 ms or
longer. We calculated the swimming speed in meters per second from the
rotation of the propeller deployed in the behavior data logger using the
methods of Fletcher et al. [19].
3 Results
We recorded the biosonar behavior as well as the underwater body move-
ments of eight finless porpoises. The simultaneous recording time of the
acoustic and behavioral parameters varied from 1 hour to 35 hours for each
individual (average 8.75 hours). In total, we identified 2,425,095 pulses;
49,470 pulse trains and 5,113 dive events. The porpoises produced pulse
trains on average every 5.1 seconds.

--- Page 130 ---
121
time 
6:11.00 
16:11:10 
16:11:20
i 
l 
i
5 34 dlls 
thaw 
dlls fi
q 17 
. 
” 
")
"wow ot
g 
25
E 
pronase
37
Fig. 1. Periods of silence in sonar signal records for a finless porpoise. The time series of the sound
pressure (SP) shows periods of silence between pulse trains indicated by horizontal bars. The distance
inspected acoustically was calculated by the inter-click interval (ICID) of a train prior to the silence.
Many periods of silence between pulse trains were recorded (figure 1).
Silent periods sometimes lasted more than 10 seconds, whereas the swim
speed during these periods ranged up to 3 m/s with an average cruising
speed of 0.89 m/s. Because the underwater visibility in the lake was less
than | m due to turbidity, the porpoises could not detect any remote obsta-
cles in front of them without using sonar. The distance over which an ani-
mal traveled silently was calculated by multiplying the duration of every
period of silence by the simultaneously recorded swimming speed.
We also calculated the distance inspected acoustically by the animals
just prior to a period of silence. The acoustically inspected distance is
given by the two-way distance traveled by sound within an inter-click in-
terval. However, in cetacean bio-sonar systems, an additional lag time is
required within each inter-click interval for the animal to process returning
echoes (Au 1993). This lag time should be less than the shortest inter-click
interval. The minimum accumulated distribution of the inter-click interval
in a pulse train was 1 ms (figure 2a), The lag time in our study was

--- Page 131 ---
122
(b)
Fig. 2. Comparison of the distance travelled in silence and the distance previously inspected acousti-
cally. (a) Distribution of the average inter-click intervals in pulse trains of eight finless porpoises. The
lag time (echo signal processing duration) was assumed to be 5 ms. In 90% of cases, the acoustically
inspected distance was less than 77 m. (b) The distance inspected acoustically was far greater than the
distance subsequently travelled in silence. The gray scale shows the number of observed pulse trains in
each bin. Most click trains fell under the diagonal line, indicating that porpoises inspected an area
ahead for long enough before silently swimming into it.
conservatively assumed to be no more than 5 ms, since frequency of occur-
rence dropped sharply below this interval. The upper inset of figure 2a
shows the scale of the calculated distance inspected acoustically. The dis-
tance inspected acoustically in advance was far greater than the distance
traveled silently (figure 2b, accumulated data from all monitored individu-
als). This relationship was consistently observed for all individuals. In
90% of all cases, the acoustically inspected distance was less than 77 m
and the modal focal distance was 24 m. Once a porpoise detected a poten-
tial target and approached it, the animal often emitted clicks with a linearly
decreasing inter-click interval, hereafter termed the approach phase (figure
3a). Changes in the inspected distance from the beginning to the end of the

--- Page 132 ---
123
approach phase were calculated from changes in inter-click interval. Addi-
tionally, the distance traveled during the approach phase was calculated by
multiplying the duration of the approach phase by swim speed (figure 3b).
Finless porpoises changed the inspected distance by 11.0 m on average
(maximum 42.7 of the 117 approach phases analyzed) and swam 8.6 m on
average (maximum 43.0) during the approach phase. These two independ-
ent measures-the distance traveled and the distance inspected during the
approach phase-were well correlated (figure 3b; r= 0.80, p < 0.005).
At the end of the approach phase, the minimum inter-click interval was
near the assumed lag time (5 ms). A few seconds after the end of the ap-
proach phase, the swim speed frequently dropped to zero (see swimming
speed profile in figure 3a).
4 Discussion
The finless porpoises observed in this study produced sonar signals nearly
constantly, on average every 5.1 seconds. This result suggests that the
finless porpoises strongly rely on their acoustic sensory systems for navi-
gation and traveling.
When moving through an environment in which vision is limited, prior
acoustic inspection of the area ahead is essential for these animals. This
strategy offers substantial advantages both in terms of risk avoidance and
prey capture. In particular, animals must detect potentially lethal risks as
early as possible. For example, harbour seals have been shown to avoid the
long-range vocalizations of killer whales, their primary natural predators
[20]. Potential risks for finless porpoises in a freshwater habitat include in-
juries from or entanglement in underwater debris and entrapment in shal-
low waters, as well as rough water surfaces or floating materials that pre-
vent safe respiration. Taking such risks can be costly; thus, the porpoises
must detect risks with sufficient time to avoid them by changing behavior.
As shown in figure 2b, finless porpoises almost always inspect upcoming
areas for long enough before swimming into them silently. The porpoises
seemed to employ a large safety margin in their sonar range when inspect-
ing the area ahead relative to the distance they swam silently.
The inspection distance of the porpoises was as high as 77 m (figure 2a).
This long-range sonar ability in dolphins and porpoises has also been re-
ported in previous studies. In one study, the detection distance of a metal
sphere target by a trained bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus) was up
to 113 m [1]. Estimated inspection distances of three different odontocetes

--- Page 133 ---
124
in the wild reached tens of meters, which was significantly greater than the
distances inspected by captive individuals [4]. This suggests that the large
(a)
time 
16:18:55 
re1800 
"61008 
teto
604
55 flatts all sas
SP 
(Pa)
Ici 
(ms)
8
\
Speed 
(m/s)
Oo|
Caan
sx
Nee!
& 
8
Distance 
travelled 
during
terminal 
phase 
(m)
8
0 
10 
20 
30 
40 
50
Change of inspected distance (m)
Fig. 3. Comparison of the distance travelled during the approach phase and the change in the distance
inspected acoustically. {a} The approach phase (arrow) is characterised by a linear decrease in the in-
ter-click intervals (ICI) of the sonar signals. The swimming speed dropped to nearly zero after the ap-
proach phase. (b) The distance travelled during the approach phase was closely correlated with the es-
timated change in the distance inspected.
safety margins observed in this study may be used by other odontocetes as
well. The inter-click interval fluctuated and mean interval was larger than
the two-way sound travel time to the target range in the target detection
experiment by a harbour porpoise (Phocoena phocoena) [21]. The inter-
click intervals may be an index for maximum target range, otherwise the
harbour porpoise might scan the longer distance behind the target and ad-
justed the inter-click interval before the certain detection of the target.
On the other hand, for the detection of prey, the porpoises are acutely
aware of the relative distances to a target that is still out of the visible

--- Page 134 ---
125
range. The distance traveled during the approach phase and the change in
the distance that was inspected acoustically were similar, suggesting that
the porpoises recognized a remote target and focused their sonar on it at a
distance sometimes exceeding 30 m (figure 3b). A harbour porpoise which
is in the same family of a finless porpoise is known to detect a water-filled
stainless steel sphere with outer diameter 5.08 cm up to 14 m by its sonar
[21]. In the case above, the present finless porpoise might detect larger tar-
get such as fish school from a long distance.
During the approach phase, the porpoises seemed to employ smaller
safety margins, since the inspection distance was adjusted to the distance
from a potential prey item second by second. Once a porpoise detects an
available resource ahead, it focuses the inspection distance on this target.
In exchange for the small safety margin, a predator gains the advantage of
locating the position of the moving remote prey well in advance.
Increasing repetition rate of sonar signals during approach to a target
have been previously described in bat sonar [22, 23] before the capture of
an insect. At the end of the approach phase in porpoises, the swimming
speed dropped. This speed profile is considered the turning behavior of the
animal [24]. The precise adjustment of sonar during the approach phase
and the quick body movement strongly suggest that prey capture occurred.
On average, the approach phase of the animals in this study lasted over
11 m in swimming distance, whereas the sonar vocalizations at a higher
repetition rate of a bat (Eptesicus fuscus) started 1 m to 2 m from a target
in a large flight room [22]. The body lengths of these two species also dif-
fer by approximately ten times (140 cm for finless porpoises, 12 cm for big
brown bats). Therefore, both species locked their sonar on a target at a dis-
tance of eight times their body length.
Because animals face limitations in detection ability and because their
search effort is time constrained, they must use their sensory systems ap-
propriately. The finless porpoises in this study usually searched no more
than 77 m ahead, a distance that could be reached within a couple of min-
utes at their typical cruising speed. Objects farther away are not important
to the animal, regardless of whether they are lethal or beneficial. Inspect-
ing the immediate area through which a porpoise is going to travel allows
time for decision-making before the animal faces real risks or rewards.
Biosonar of dolphins and porpoises is an appropriate model of biomi-
metic sonar. Precise target positioning as well as the wide frequency range
response to discriminate targets are the potential advantages of the broad-
band sonar. The way to use sonar by porpoises is possibly applied for the
development of signal transmission and processing system of future
biomimetic sonar.

--- Page 135 ---
126
We thank Q. Zhao, Z. Wei, X. Zhang, X. Wang, B. Yu, J. Xiao, S. Li, J.
Zheng, J. Xia, K. Lucke, K. Sato, A. Takahashi, V. Deecke, A. Kato, H.
Tanaka, M. Suzuki, H. Muramoto, N. Sugiyama, K. Oda, A. Matsuda, S.
Suzuki, T. Ishida, M. Ota, M. Nakamura, H. Hiruda, S. Numata, T. Sakai,
T. Tobayama, M. Soichi and H. Katsumata for their help in conducting this
research. This work was funded by the Program for Promotion of Basic
Research Activities for Innovative Biosciences of Japan, the National
Natural Science Foundation of China (30170142), the Chinese Academy
of Sciences (CAS), and the Institute of Hydrobiology, CAS (No. KSCX2-
SW-118 and 220103). This paper is originally appeared in Proc. R. Soc.
Lond. B, 272, 797-801 (2005) and modified for ISABMEC 2006.
References
{1} 
W. W.L. Au, The sonar of dolphins, Springer, New York, 
1993
[2] 
W. W. L. Au, and K. J. Benoit-Bird, Automatic gain control in the echolocation system of
dolphins, Nature, vol.423, pp.861-863, 2003
[3] 
M. O. Lammers, W. W. L. Au, and D. L. Herzing, The broadband social acoustic signaling
behavior of spinner and spotted dolphins, J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol.114, pp.1629-1639, 2003
[4] 
T. Akamatsu, D. Wang, K. Nakamura, and K. Wang, Echolocation range of captive and
free-ranging baiji (Lipotes vexillifer), finless porpoise (Neophocaena phocaenoides), and
bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus)., J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol.104, pp.2511-2516, 1998
[5] 
W. J. Richardson, C. R. Greene, Jr., C. 1. Malme, and D. 
H Thomson, Marine mammals and
noise., Academic Press, New York, 1995
[6] 
J. A. Thomas, and C. W. Turl, Echolocation characteristics and range detection threshold of
a false killer whale (Pseudorca crassidens). In Sensory abilities of cetaceans: laboratory
and field evidence (ed. JA. Thomas & R.A. Kastelein), pp.321-334, Plenum Press, New
York, 1990
[7] 
C. W. Clark, and P. J. Clapham, Acoustic monitoring on a humpback whale (Megaptera no-
vaeangliae) feeding ground shows continual singing into late spring. Proc. R. Soc. Lond,
vol. B 271, pp. 1051-1057, 2004
[8] 
VY. M. Janik, S. M. van Parijs, and P. M. Thompson, A two-dimensional acoustic localiza-
tion system for marine mammals. Mar. Mamm. Sci., vol.16, pp.437-447, 2000
[9] 
D.L. Herzing, Vocalizations and associated underwater behavior of free-ranging Atlantic
spotted dolphins, Stenella frontalis, and bottlenose dolphins, Tursieps truncatus. Aquatic
Mammals, vol.22, pp.61-79, 1996
{10] 
P. L. Tyack, M. Johonson, P. T. Madsen, and W. M. Zimmer, Echolocation in wild toothed
whales. J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol.115, pp.2373, 2004
[ii] 
D. P. Nowacek, M. P. Johnson, and P. L. Tyack, North Atlantic right whales (Eubalaena
giacialis) ignore ships but respond to alerting stimuli. Proc. R. Soc. Lond, Vol. B 271, pp.
227-231, 2004
[12] 
P. T. Madsen, R. Payne, N. U. Kristiansen, M. Wahlberg, I. Kerr, and B. Mohl, Sperm
whale sound production studied with ultrasound time/depth-recording tags. J. Exp. Biol.,
vol, 205, pp.1899-1906, 2002
[13] 
W.C. Burgess, P. L. Tyack, B. J. Le Boeuf, and D. P. Costa, A programmable acoustic re-
cording tag and first results from free-ranging northern elephant seals. Deep-Sea Research
i, vol. 45, pp.1327-1351, 1998
{14} 
BR. E. Thomas, K. M. Fristrup, and P. L. Tyack, Linking the sounds of dolphins to their lo-
cations and behavior using video and multichannel acoustic recordings. J. Acoust. Soc. Am.,
vol. 112, pp.1692-1701, 2002

--- Page 136 ---
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
127
T. Akamatsu, D. Wang, K. Wang, and Y. Naito, A method for individual identification of
echolocation signals in free-ranging finless porpoises carrying data loggers. J. Acoust. Soc.
Am., vol.108, pp.1353-1356, 2000
P. Tyack, and C. A. Recchia, A data logger to identify vocalizing dolphins. J. Acoust. Soc.
Am., vol. 90, pp.1668-1671, 1991
Z. Wei, D. Wang, X. Kuang, K. Wang, X. Wang, J. Xiao, Q. Zhao, and X. Zhang, Observa-
tions on behavior and ecology of the Yangtze finless porpoise (Neophocaena phocaenoides
asiaeorientalis) group at Tian-e-Zhou Oxbow of the Yangtze River. The Raffles Bulletin of
Zoology, Supplement, vol.10, pp.97-103, 2002
X. Zhang, Z. Wei, X. Wang, J. Yang, and P. Chen, Studies on the feasibility of establish-
ment of a semi-natural reserve at Tian-e-zhou (swan) oxbow for baiji, Lipotes vexillifer.
Acta Hydrobiologica Sinica, vol.19, pp.110-123, 1995
S. Fletcher, B. J. Le Boeuf, and D. P. Costa, Onboard acoustic recording from diving
northern elephant seals. J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol.100, pp.2531-2539, 1996
V. B. Deecke, P. J. B. Slater, and J. K. B. Ford, Selective habituation shapes acoustic
predator recognition in harbour seals. Nature, vol.420, pp.171-173, 2002
J. Teilmann, L.A. Miller, T. Kirketerp, R.A. Kastelein, P.T. Madsen, B.K. Nielsen, and
W.W.L. Au, Characteristics of echolocation signals used by a harbour porpoise (Phocoena
phocoena) in a target detection experiment. Aquatic Mammals, vol.28, pp.275-284, 2002
C. F. Moss, and A. Surlykke, Auditory scene analysis by echolocation in bats. J. Acoust.
Soc. Am., vol.110, pp.2207-2226, 2001
B. Tian, and H. Schnitzler, Echolocation signals of the greater horseshoe bat (Rhinolophus
Jerrumequinum) in transfer flight and during landing. J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol.101,
pp.2347-2364, 1996
T. Akamatsu, D. Wang, K. Wang, Z. Wei, Q. Zhao, and Y. Naito, Diving behavior of
freshwater finless porpoises (Neophocaena phocaenoides) in an oxbow of the Yangtze
River, China. JCES J. Mar. Sci.,vol. 59, pp.438-443, 2002

--- Page 137 ---
Chapter 11
Micro-structural Approach to Developing the
Resonance Model of the Indirect Flight
Mechanism
Hitoshi Miyake
Physical Education and Health Care Center, Nagaoka University of Tech-
nology, 1603-1 Kamitomioka-cho, Nagaoka, Japan
Summary. Insects (Phylum Arthropoda Class Insecta) are divided into
two groups. One has a direct flight mechanism (wing driven by the "direct"
muscles) and the other has an indirect one. The latter is known as “constant
wing oscillation", where is different from the asynchronous flight muscle
contraction-relaxation frequency, although the precise mechanism is un-
known. We have already proposed a mechanically reconstructed resonance
model. It works as if the "indirect" muscles cause the chest wall to vibrate
of its proper frequency and as if the vibration then causes the higher wing
oscillation. According to this, there is no "amplifier" apparatus. To clarify
the indirect flight mechanism and the "amplifier" using the micro-
structural approach, honeybees (Apis mellifera) were investigated and the
micro-XCT was employed. Ordinary cross-section tissue specimens were
also investigated. The results were; 1} No "amplifier" apparatus was found
in the area adjacent to the wing joint. Contrary to this, our resonance
model does not have any inconsistency. It needs not higher muscle con-
traction-relaxation frequency. 2) In the joint of wing, some motion limita-
tion apparatus of wing were found, but it was to be thought to act as a pas-
sive shock absorber, not as an active one. 3) Consequently, our resonance
model is the only significant explanatory theory without inconsistency for
the indirect flight mechanism.
Key words. micro-structure, indirect flight, insect, resonance, model
129

--- Page 138 ---
130
1 Introduction
1.1 Two Types of Wing Driven Mechanism in Insect Flight
Insects (Phylum Arthropoda Class Insecta) are divided into two groups ac-
cording to the wing driven mechanism for flying. One, like birds, has a di-
rect flight mechanism (wing driven by the "direct" muscles), that is, butter-
flies, dragonflies, etc., the other has an indirect flight mechanism (wing
driven by the "indirect" muscles) (Nachtigall (1989), Chapman (1982)).
The latter group which includes smaller insects, such as flies, bees, mos-
quitoes, is known as "constant wing oscillation", where is different from
the asynchronous muscle contraction-relaxation frequency of flight, al-
though the precise mechanism is still unknown.
1.2 New Mechanical Model and Resonance Model of the
Indirect Flight Mechanism
We reported a new mechanism at the Ist International Symposium on
Aqua Bio-Mechanisms (Miyake 2000a) and proposed a mechanically re-
constructed resonance model at the 2nd symposium (Miyake 2004), be-
cause almost earlier literature seemed to include an inconsistency (Chap-
man (1982)). The resonance model works as if the "indirect" muscles
cause the chest wall to vibrate of its proper frequency and as if the vibra-
tion then causes the wing oscillation. According to this theory, there is no
"amplifier" apparatus. Some earlier literature suggested it was "the crick
mechanism" (Nachigall (1989)).
1.3 Where is the "amplifier" located?
The objective of this study was to discover the micro-structural mechanism
of the "amplifier" apparatus for converting chest wall vibration to wing os-
cillation using our resonance model, because the oscillation frequency was
much higher than the muscle contraction-relaxation frequency (Miyake H
(2004)).

--- Page 139 ---
131
Fig.1. Two types of posture, up- and
down-wing stroke of honey bees
were prepared.
Fig.2. An example of tissue
specimen (minimum resolu-
tion; 1.4 X 10° m, less than
the micro-XCT's)
2 Methods
2.1 Materials
To clarify the indirect flight mechanism using the micro-structural ap-
proach, honeybees (Apis mellifera) were investigated. Just before observa-
tion, the chest part of each sample was separated sharply with a knife from
the head and the abdomen. Also wings and legs were cut at the root. Two
posture types, that is, up- and down-wing stroke's posture, were prepared
as shown Fig.1.
2.2 Micro-XCT and Tissue Specimens
The micro-XCT (Shimadzu SMX-130CT-SV), which can show micro
structure without cutting the specimen, was employed. Ordinary cross-
section tissue specimens were also investigated. The slice width was 7.4 X
10° m and the slice pitch was 7.4 X 10° m. This means the minimum reso-
lution was 7.4 X 10° m. Three-dimensional (3D) images were obtained
easily using the micro-XCT results and examined carefully for the micro
"amplifier" structure.
The tissue specimen's minimum resolution was 1.4 X 10° m (Fig. 2).

--- Page 140 ---
132
3 Results
3.1 Standard Sample (outside view)
Firstly standard samples were obtained to reconstruct 3D images from the
micro-XCT images. Fig. 3 and Fig. 4 show typical 3D images of the left
half portion of the chest near the root of wing. Fig. 5 also shows another
typical outside view of the left chest near the root of wing. Some semi-
lunar elevations were observed.
3.2 Cross-Sectional Observations (muscle layout)
From the cross-sectional observations, the layout of the two main wing
drive muscles, which indicates the force transmission direction, were de-
termined. Both muscles were attached to the tergum. They were not
crossed at right angles (Fig. 6).
3.3 Cross-Sectional Observations of the Up- and Down-Stroke
Wing Posture
The cross-sectional images of the two main muscles and the middle por-
tion are shown in Fig. 7. The images of the top row show the slice direc-
tion of each CT image. The images in the second row show the Dorso-
Ventral Muscle's cross-section. The third row shows the middle of the two
muscles! cross-section and the images in the bottom row show the Dorso-
Longitudinal Muscle's cross-section. The two figures on the left show on
the up-stroke wing's posture. The two figures on the right show on the
down-stroke wing's posture. The difference between the tow postures is
most obvious at the root of wing. Fig. 8 shows the enlarged images of the
up-stroke posture at the root. And Fig. 
9 shows the same for the down-
stroke posture. Comparing these images, the formed angles where the line
"a" and the line "b" cross each other were different. That is, this line was
the root of wing and this was not a point but a line formed by a membra-
nous plain. In this area, super-elastic resirin was also found.
To summarize these observations, the following were clear;
1) On the side of the chest wall, the root of wing and its joint were
found. (Fig. 3, Fig.4)

--- Page 141 ---
133
Fig.3. Examples of typical 3D images of the left half portion of the chest
near the wing root shown as rotating from upper left to lower right from
the CT images
Fig.4. Examples of enlarged 3D images of the left half portion of the chest
near the wing root shown as rotating from upper left to lower right from
the CT images

--- Page 142 ---
134
Fig.5. An example of typical 3D outside view of the left chest near the root
of wing (the head is on the left, the abdomen on the right) reconstructed
from the micro-XCT images
Sm 
pLM
‘
middle 
SS; — 
.
tergum
DLM
Fig.6.Schematic view of the two main wing drive muscles’ layout (lower) ;
derived from the cross-sectional observations (upper) (The muscles were
not in the rectangle layout.)

--- Page 143 ---
135
2) A semi-lunar shaped pipe was found around the chest wall. (Fig.5)
3) At the root or joint of the wing, 
a membranous part was found. This
was thought to act as passive shock absorber made of super-elastic re-
sirin, not as an active one. (Fig. 8)
4) Also, at the joint, three semi-circular elevations were found. (Fig.7)
5) The pivot of the joint was found under the membranous part. (Fig. 8,
Fig.9)
6) When the wing was on the up-stroke, the joint was in the curved area.
And when it was on the down-stroke, this part was outside the area. That
is, the structure of joint part spread out. (Fig. 8, Fig.9)
7) Both muscles (Dorsoventral muscle (DVM) and Dorsolongitudinal
muscle (DLM)) were attached to the tergum. They did not cross at right
angles. That is, the muscles only move the tergum when they work co-
operatively. (Fig. 6)
8) Most of the chest wall cavity was occupied by the muscles. (Fig. 3)
9) The chest wall was made of three parts, that is, 
a hard upper and
lower part and a softer middle part. (Fig. 6, Fig.7, Fig.8)
4 Discussions
4.1 Where is the crick mechanism?
Many theses suggest the existence of the crick mechanism (Nachigall
(1989), Chapman (1982), Brodsky (1994)). We only observed the pivot of
the wing joint and found no special mechanism there. But it may be that
the crick mechanism has the function of so-called jack-knife movement.
This suggests that it only works to strengthen the up-stroke and not the
down-stroke, which needs a twisting movement to reduce air current resis-
tance,
4.2 Does our resonance model have a weak point?
Our resonance model may have a weak point. That is, the driving force
does not transmit in contact with the string. So the model was revised (Mi-
yake 2000b). But even the revised model does not represent the actual
muscle movement.

--- Page 144 ---
136
Fig.7. Images of the slice direction of each CT image (top row). Images of
the Dorso-Ventral Muscle's cross-section (second row). Images of the
middle of the two muscles’ cross-section (third row). Images of the Dorso-
Longitudinal Muscle's cross-section (bottom row). Left two file show on
the up-stroke wing's posture. Right two file show on the down-stroke
wing's posture. The scale in the top row shows arbitrary cross-sectional
position of 20 cross-sections. The difference between the tow postures is
most obvious at the root of wing. Following two figures (Fig.8 and Fig.9)
are more explainable about this difference.

--- Page 145 ---
137
Fig.8. Enlarged images of the up-stroke posture at the root of wing, a short
dotted line shows the wing posture. Note the position of “a” and “b”, and
thick material around “a”, which may be made of super-elastic resirin.
Fig.9. Enlarged images of the down-stroke posture at the root of wing,
thick material around “a” is disappear.

--- Page 146 ---
138
4.3 How should we understand the muscles movement as
the true model?
Argonne National Laboratory detected insect muscle micro-structure
movement using the X-ray movies (Rgonne 2005). From this report, indi-
rect type muscles move with the frequency of the wing beat, for example,
1k Hz. But the fact that vertebrata animals’ muscles move at most of 100
Hz has been certified by EMG. That is, we must remind that muscle
movement is not equal to EMG, and that muscles produce power only
when they are stimulated by nerve pulses. MARCUS J. KING et al., 1996
described the DVM excitation frequency was approximately 35Hz. So we
can assume that the indirect flight muscles move in two manners, that is, in
the active phase and in the passive phase. So, even if the maximum fre-
quency of the muscles contraction and relaxation is 100 Hz, the muscles
themselves might be able to "move" at 1k Hz. According to our resonance
model, however, it is the actual muscles power that causes the proper vi-
bration of the tergum, which is much higher than the highest/maximum
muscle contraction and relaxation frequency. As a phenomenon, the mus-
cles themselves can be observed to "move" or to vibrate at a hither fre-
quency. This resolves the apparent inconsistency.
5 Conclusions
This paper dealt with the indirect flight mechanism in insects. In order to
discover the micro-structural mechanism of the "amplifier" apparatus for
converting chest wall vibration to wing oscillation using our resonance
model, honeybees (Apis mellifera) were investigated using the micro-XCT.
The results were:
1) No "amplifier" apparatus was found in the area adjacent to the wing
joint from the micro-XCT images. Contrary to this, our resonance model
does not have any inconsistency. It needs not higher muscle contraction-
relaxation frequency.
2) In the joint of wing, some motion limitation apparatus of wing were
found, but it was to be thought to act as a passive shock absorber made of
super-elastic resirin, not as an active one.
3) Consequently, our resonance model is the only significant explanatory
theory without inconsistency for the indirect flight mechanism.

--- Page 147 ---
139
Acknowledgement
The author is extremely thankful to Prof. Hara of Niigata University, De-
partment of Engineering, and also to the students of the Dept of Engineer-
ing, NUT.
References
Chapman R F (1982): THE INSECTS 3rd ed., Harvard Univ. Press, US
Miyake H (2000a): Approaches to the Indirect Flight Mechanism, Proceedings of
the Ist International Symposium on Aqua Bio-Mechanisms, 239-244, August
27-30
Miyake H (2000b): Basic Studies of the Artificial Wing Driven by an Indirect
Wing Movement Mechanism, Japanese Journal of Artificial Organs, 29(1),
271/275, (in Japanese)
Miyake H (2004): Resonance Model of the Indirect Flight Mechanism, in Bio-
mechanisms of Swimming and Flying (N.Kato et al Eds.) 39/50 Springer, Tokyo
Nachtigall W (1989): INSECT FLIGHT, Graham J. Goldsworthy and Colin H.
Wheeler Eds., CRC Press, US
RGONNE, Il. (2005): http:/Avww.anl.gov/ Media Center/ News/ 2005/
news050121 html
MARCUS J. KING et al., (1996): ACTIVITY OF ASYNCHRONOUS FLIGHT
MUSCLE FROM TWO BEE FAMILIES DURING SONICATION
(BUZZING), The Journal of Experimental Biology 199, 2317-2321

--- Page 148 ---
Part Il
Hydrodynamics of Swimming and Flying

--- Page 149 ---
Chapter 12
Studies of Hydrodynamics in Fishlike Swimming
Propulsion
Xi-Yun Lu’, Xie-Zhen Yin', and Bing-Gang Tong’?
‘Department of Modern Mechanics, University of Science and Technology
of China, 96 Jinzhai Rd., Hefei, Anhui 230026, China
"Department of Physics, Graduate University of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 19A Yuquan Rd., Beijing 100049, China
Summary. We will attempt to provide an overview on the hydrodynamics
of fishlike swimming propulsion based on our recent work performed ex-
perimentally, numerically and theoretically. In the present paper, we
mainly review some typical work, including measurement on kinematics
of free-swimming fish and prediction of dynamics acting on an arbitrarily
deformable body, numerical and experimental simulations of flow over
flapping and traveling wavy bodies, and theoretical modeling and analysis
on flow around a waving plate and a flapping plate.
Key words. Fishlike swimming, Free-swimming fish, Animal propulsion,
Hydrodynamics, Vortex dynamics
1 Introduction
Aquatic and aerial animals in fluid media, i.e. fish swimming in water and
bird and insects flying through air, have developed their superior and com-
plete performance of flying and swimming, which any modern man-made
air and underwater vehicles cannot possess. These animals may be re-
garded as living machines, which act under their neural control with their
muscle contraction as a motor to transform the biochemical energy to the
mechanical energy and then implement their wing-flapping or body-
undulating propulsion. We are interested in understanding the design con-
cepts of these living machines, which include the neural science, muscle
mechanics, morphology diversity, locomotion pattern (kinematics), pro-
pulsion and control (dynamics), energy costs and efficiency (energetics),
biological material properties, etc. All these are involved in a discipline of
flying and swimming biomechanics.
During recent years, some studies on biofluiddynamics of animal flight
and swimming and the relevant biomimetic technology have been taken in
143

--- Page 150 ---
144
the authors’ team. In the present paper, we mainly review some recent
work on the hydrodynamics of fishlike swimming propulsion.
2 Measurement of Free-Swimming Fish and Prediction of
Dynamics on a Deformable Body
Measurement of free-swimming fish is a challenging task. Usually, the ki-
nematic behaviors of free-swimming fish may be obtained by particle im-
age velocimetry (PIV) (e.g. Li et al. 2003). However, how to measure the
dynamics of free-swimming animals still is an unsolved problem. Thus, it
is desirable to develop reliable and feasible method to predict the dynamics
based on the kinematic data obtained in a certain region around an arbitrar-
ily deformable body. For neatness, we mainly show a measurement of the
kinematics of fish swimming in a fast-start and a theoretical method for
predicting the dynamics on a deformable body, respectively.
300
(b)
256
p20 r
=
=
* 1505
100°
‘ 
A 
5 
- 
A
100 
x (mm) 
200 
300 
+2 
200 x (mm) 
300 
400
Fig. 1. The tracings of the fish in single-bend (a) and double-bend (b) C-
starts for Crucian Carp and Yellow Catfish. Times between tracings are in
milliseconds.
A fast-start is a high-energy swimming burst starting either from rest or
steady swimming. The fast-starts are classified into two main types, C- and
S-starts, in which the fish is bent into a ‘C’ or ‘S’ shape at the end of the
first contraction of the lateral musculature. Here, the kinematics of C-starts
of Crucian Carp (Carassius auratus) and Yellow Catfish (Pelteobagrus
julvidraco) from rest are investigated by Jing et al. (2004, 2005). Based on
whether a contralateral bend appears, as shown in Fig. 1 for the tracings of
the fish in the escape response, we have identified that the escape re-
sponses of Crucian Carp and Yellow Catfish exhibit single-bend and dou-
ble-bend types, respectively.

--- Page 151 ---
145
Based on the backbone curves in Fig. 1, the strain of muscle along the
fish body using a simple model and the dynamical performance using the
Weihs’ model during the escape responses are qualitatively analyzed (Jing
et al. 2004, 2005). Further, experimental measurements of hydrodynamic
force and moment acting on several fishtail shape models with a motion of
simulating C-start of fish swimming are also performed. We have found
that the force and moment acting on the fishtail models in the C-start mo-
tion depend on mainly the fishtail shape as its second and third area mo-
ments (Zhao et al. 2006).
Now, with the rapid development of noninterference instantaneous
flow-field survey techniques, such as PIV, it is in principle possible to ob-
tain the kinematic data in a certain region around a body and their time de-
pendence. To predict the dynamics, we propose two innovative formulas
for the total force acting on any solid body that moves and deforms arbi-
trarily in a viscous incompressible fluid, solely in terms of control-surface
integrals, which are derived based on derivative-moment transformations
(DMT) and described in detail by Wu et al. (2005). The formulas provide a
theoretical basis of obtaining the dynamics on a deformable body.
0.1 
2
a 
77772, (DMT-1) 
b
@M 
=! (DMT) 
(b)
~ome ES (DMT=1) 
iL
ee E, (DMT-2)
~~ 
E, (DMT-2)
was | |
-1k
-0.10 
023 
05 
07 
1 
0 
2
Fig. 2. Drag coefficients Cp at c=1.5 and Re=10° (a) predicted by the
DMT-1 and DMT-2 with three control surfaces 2, (1, 2, 3) (b) at an in-
stant ¢/T=0 with T the period of traveling wave in Eq. (1).
We now proceed to verify both the formulas (denoted by DMT-I and
DMT-2) by calculating a two-dimensional viscous flow, governed by the
Navier-Stokes (N-S) equations, over a fishlike swimming body. In dimen-
sionless form, the Reynolds number is defined as Re=UL/v, where U is the
free-stream velocity, L the length of body, and v the kinematic viscosity. A
NACA0012 airfoil is used as the contour of the body at an equilibrium po-
sition of undulating motion. The midline of the body is making a transver-
sal oscillation in the form of a wave traveling in the streamwise direction,
described by

--- Page 152 ---
146
y, = 4, (x) cos[2a(x—ct)], OS x<1 
Q)
where A,, and c are the amplitude and phase speed of the traveling wave
normalized by the length of swimming body. To model reasonably the lat-
eral motion of the backbone undulation of fish swimming, 4,,(x) is ap-
proximated by a quadratic polynomial
A(X) =C, + Cx+C,x7 
(2)
where the coefficients Co, C,, and C, are solved from the kinematic data of
a steadily swimming saithe (Videler 1993), which gives 4,,(0)=0.02,
A,{0.2)=0.01, and A,,(1.0)=0.10. To set the kinematic conditions on the
deformable body, we assume that the body length is unchanged during
swimming and its undulation is purely a lateral compressive motion.
Figure 2(a) shows that the drag coefficients Cp at c=1.5 and Re=10*,
predicted by the DMT-1! and DMT-2 with three control surfaces £; (1, 2,
3) in Fig. 2(b), agree with each other quite well. The independence of
computed forces of the control domain is well confirmed. The above re-
sults suggest that, with high-accuracy flow data gained by the PIV in a
neighborhood of 2, beth the formulas may easily lead to a force estimate
with an accuracy higher than those estimates based on any conventional
experimental means (Wu et al. 2005). In this regard, an important issue is
that the formulas should be robust, i.e. insensitive to the inevitable meas-
urement inaccuracy. A numerical test of this robustness has been carried
out to mimic the effect of measurement inaccuracy in PIV data (typically
5%) on the overall quality of the force prediction. In the test, artificial
noise of 5% free stream velocity is introduced. The error response is ob-
served to be less than 1% or smaller. Further, a detailed and quantitative
understanding of the effects of flow structures on the instantaneous overall
force characteristics has been studied (e.g. Wu et al. 2007).
3 Numerical and Experimental Simulation of Flow over
Flapping and Traveling Wavy Bodies
Based on the observation and measurement of free-swimming fish, the
flapping and traveling wavy foils can be used as essential models to deal
with the propulsion of fish swimming. Then, numerical and experimental
simulations on viscous flow over the flapping and traveling wavy foils
have been carried out. Here, we mainly discuss some typical cases, includ-
ing flow around a flapping foil, flow past a traveling wavy foil and travel-
ing wavy foils in a side-by-side arrangement, and flapping coupling be-
tween two filaments.

--- Page 153 ---
{47
To understand the nature of flapping locomotion and the relevant dy-
namic response mechanisms, an up-and-down flapping foil is considered
and its vertical position is given by
h(t) = A, cos(2z f,1) 
(3)
where A, and f, are the flapping amplitude and frequency, respectively.
Then, a flapping Reynolds number is defined as Re=p, f,AaL/u, where L is
the chord of foil, p, the fluid density, and yz the dynamic viscosity. When a
foil takes only flapping without the horizontal movement, two typical pa-
rameters involved in this problem are the frequency parameter, defined as
P= 
Po fil’/, and the flapping amplitude A=A,/L, with a relation to the
flapping Reynolds number Re= A4.
120 
T 
20
(a) i 
v 
symmetrical 
(b)
we 
4 
asymmetric
ceseneesensennne 
i 
15+
sok 
aaa 
fitting curve
E 
&
co 
an 
asymmetric 
S)OF
40l 
woAA 
region
ve f 
st
symmetrical “S$.
, region 
in — $......... 
pedi 
@ 
212.253 
{4 
[8 
[so |10q
0.2 
0.4 
0.6 
0.8 
0 
20 
40 
60 
86 
100 
126
A 
x /e
Fig. 3. (a) Boundary between symmetrical and asymmetric flow regime;
(b) the horizontal locations x,/c of the foil at several o values for A = 0.5
and 
= 100. Here, T is the flapping period. Each location from o= 2 for
the sequence of the o value shown here is added continuously by an inter-
val 10 to clearly exhibit these curves.
The foil exerts forces on the fluid through its own inertia response and is
likewise acted on by the fluid flow pressure and viscous friction. Thus,
there exists a critical flapping Reynolds number; as the critical Reynolds
number exceeds, the flapping foil begins to move spontaneously in the
horizontal direction (e.g. Lu and Liao 2006). To examine the critical flap-
ping Reynolds number, the N-S equations are numerically solved for dif-
ferent pairs of @ and A. For each pair of # and A under examination, the
horizontal force component F;, is calculated. When F, vanishes through the
cycles, the flow is symmetric with the flow structure being left-right sym-
metric. When F,, is nonzero, the flow is characterized as asymmetric, the
foil will move spontaneously in the horizontal direction. After extensive
tests, the boundary between symmetrical and asymmetric flow regime on
the 6 —A plane shown in Fig. 3(a) is determined in the form of a fitting

--- Page 154 ---
148
curve, 4 =1.98 °°’. Then, by Re= AA, the critical flapping Reynolds num-
ber can be expressed as Re, 
= 3.14 °”° approximately.
To analyze the dynamic response of spontaneously moving foil, the
flapping frequency @ and amplitude 4 are chosen in asymmetric regime in
Fig. 3(a). In this case, the horizontal force component F,, due to the pres-
sure and friction forces exerting on the foil from the surrounding fluid,
propels the foil to move horizontally through Newton’s second law,
d’x,
m, We 
F. 
(4)
where x, is the horizontal location of the foil, and m, is the foil mass per
unit spanwise length, or p,S, with p, the foil density and S the foil area. To
normalize Eq. (4) by p,f7L’, a typical parameter, the density ratio o
= P/O, is introduced. Here, we deal with the dynamics of the foil with dif-
ferent density ratios. The horizontal locations of the foil at several o values
are shown in Fig. 3(b). As o < 2.2, the foil undergoes spontaneous oscilla-
tions, while as o> 2.5, the foil moves to a stable state and reaches a steady
movement. It is verified that there exist a threshold value of the density ra-
tio with o .~ 2 — 4 for all the cases in the (f, A) parameter space consid-
ered here. Thus, the horizontal movements of the foil demonstrate the exis-
tence of two dynamic responses. One is an oscillatory state when o<o,
and the other a steady movement state when o>o,.
The steady movement response is related to the forward flapping mo-
tion. The Strouhal number that governs a vortex shedding for the forward
flapping foil has been calculated in a range of 0.2 ~ 0.4 (Lu and Liao 2006)
and lies in the range where flying and swimming animals will be likely to
tune for high propulsive efficiency. Further, the propulsive performance
and vortex shedding of a foil in pitching and plunging motions have been
investigated by Lu et al. (2003). Some different types of the leading-edge
vortex shedding are identified numerically and also confirmed experimen-
tally. Usually, the evolution of the leading-edge vortex has an effective in-
fluence on the vortex structures in the wake of the foil (Wu et al. 1998).
Therefore, we find that the vortex structures in the wake (e.g. Karman or
reverse Karman vortex-street) may be closely related to these types of
leading-edge vortex shedding. In addition, the effects of some typical fac-
tors, such as the oscillating frequency and amplitude, and the phase differ-
ence between the pitching and plunging motions, on the vortex shedding
and the unsteady forces have been analyzed (Lu et al. 2003).
To reveal the mechanisms of traveling locomotion, viscous flows over a
traveling wavy foil undergoing lateral motion in the form of a streamwise
traveling wave in Eqs. (1) and (2) are investigated. The hydrodynamic fea-
tures of flow structure and vortex shedding near the traveling wavy foil are

--- Page 155 ---
149
examined to get into physical insights to the understanding of fish-like
swimming mechanisms in terms of drag reduction and optimal propulsive
performance. The drag force acting on the wavy foil and the power needed
for it to be propelled are directly relevant to the study of fish locomotion.
The total drag force (Cp) on the wavy foil consists of a friction drag (Cpr)
and a form drag due to pressure distribution (Cpp), where these drag force
coefficients, i.e. Cp, Cp- and Cpp, have been described (e.g. Dong and Lu
2005, Lu and Yin 2005). Similarly, the total power P; required for the pro-
pulsive motion of the foil consists of two parts. One is the swimming
power Ps, required to produce the lateral oscillation of traveling wave mo-
tion, and the other is the power Pp, needed to overcome the drag force.
Then, the total power Pr = Ps + Pp is obtained.
0.2 
03
(a) 
+c, 
(b) 
—+ Pp,
——— DE 
id 
P,
Ol 
——C, 
0.27 
—— P,
e) 
at
& 
w
yy 
0 
0.1
a 
Q
F 
Nw 
a
-0.1 ” 
0 Sane mmeee aall 
a
0.2555 
15 
y 
O1GS 
1 
i3 
5
c 
c
Fig. 4. Time-averaged drag force and power coefficients: (a) drag force;
(b) power.
Time-averaged drag force coefficients and powers P;, Ps and Pp are
shown in Fig. 4 for Re=5x10° based on the uniform velocity and the chord
length of the foil. With the increase of c, the time-averaged form drag co-
efficient Cpp and total drag coefficient Cp decrease, and the friction drag
coefficient Cpr increases somewhat in Fig. 4(a). It is noted that Cpp be-
comes negative and acts as thrust force when c >1.2 approximately, and Cp
gets negative when c > 1.5 approximately. In Fig. 4(b), as c increases, Ps
increases and becomes positive for c >1 approximately. The negative value
of Ps means that the wavy foil motion can be actuated by the flow and no
power input is needed. The power to overcome the drag force Pp decreases
monotonically with c, because of the decrease of Cp shown in Fig. 4(a).
When Pp is negative, it means that the wavy foil is propelled by the thrust;
however, the thrust is at the expense of the swimming power Ps. Both Ps
and Pp present the competing mechanisms. The distribution of total power
Py versus c is concave upwards with a minimum around c = 1.2, which is

--- Page 156 ---
150
consistent with the value used for traveling wave-like swimming motion of
live fish in nature (Videler 1993).
Considering the undulating body subject to a net thrust (i.e. Cp < 0), we
introduce a propeller efficiency (or Froude efficiency), defined in a time-
averaged manner as the ratio between —Pp and Ps, or 47 = —Pp/Ps. Note that
for a self-propelled motion, the time-averaged net thrust force is equal to
zero, and the propeller efficiency is also zero. As shown in Fig. 4, the total
drag Cp is near zero at c=1.5, thus 4 approaches zero, while a net thrust
occurs at c=2.0, 7 is around 30%.
The hydrodynamic aspect of fish schooling is a challenging topic and
involves complex flow phenomena. Since the hydrodynamic behaviors of
fish schooling are closely associated with the complex interferences among
the fish, e.g. streamwise and lateral interference, thus a reasonable way is
to study them separately for revealing some typical mechanisms involved
in fish schooling. Relatively, the streamwise interference has been exten-
sively studied (e.g. Liao et al. 2004). To deal with the lateral interference,
flow over traveling wavy foils in a side-by-side arrangement is used as a
simplified model. Based on the observation of fish schools, we consider
two typical cases, i.e. in-phase and anti-phase traveling wave motion of the
adjacent foils (Dong and Lu 2007). The midline of the each foil is making
a lateral oscillation described by Eqs. (1) and (2).
0.3 
0.2
(a) 
—— Pp, 
(b) 
—+— Cy,
——P, 
7 Cy,
0.24 
’ 
0.1 
—— 
C
—— P, 
e 
B
_ 
s
a O.1F 
wo 
0
ae 
&
OF 
-O.1F —=————
+ 
: 
‘ 
1 
-0.2*H 
: 
: 
:
-0.1 
04 
06 
03 
1 
0.4 
0.6, 
08 
1
Fig. 5. Distributions of time-averaged powers versus the lateral distance d
in in-phase case at c = 1.5 (a) and time-averaged drag force coefficients in
anti-phase case at c = 2.0 (b).
The distributions of time-averaged powers P;7, Ps and Pp versus the lat-
eral distance d in the in-phase case are shown in Fig. 5(a) for c = 1.5 and
Re=5x10°, where d represents the lateral position of the midline of foil at
an equilibrium position normalized by the length of swimming body. It is
interesting to find that the swimming power Ps decreases as d decreases,
and even becomes negative at d= 0.3. It means that the in-phase traveling

--- Page 157 ---
151
wavy motion can be actuated by the flow without power input when Ps is
negative. In addition, the time-averaged drag force coefficients in the anti-
phase case are shown in Fig. 5(b) at c = 2.0. Due to the lateral interference,
a thrust (i.e. -Cp) becomes larger as d decreases. It is noted that the in-
crease of the drag or thrust is mainly contributed by the form drag Cpp.
Thus, it is revealed that the lateral interference is of benefit to saving the
swimming power in the in-phase case and enhancing the forces in the anti-
phase case. In addition, some typical vortex structures, e.g. vortex-pair
row, single vortex row, in-phase and anti-phase synchronized vortex-street,
are observed in the wake of the traveling wavy foils (Dong and Lu 2007).
The results obtained provide physical insight into the understanding of hy-
drodynamics and flow structures for flow over the traveling-wavy foils and
swimming mechanisms relevant to fish schooling.
Fig. 6 Experiment photos of the coupling between two different length
filaments with left filament length L=30mm and right filament L=15mm:
(a) lateral distance between the upper fixed locations d=1.5mm, (b) d=2mm
and (c) d@=10mm.
Fish swimming in water includes complicated interactions between the
body and the surrounding fluid flow as well as among bodies in fish
schooling. Such fundamental fluid-body interactions are investigated ex-
perimentally by use of two filaments in a flowing soap film (Jia et al.
2007). Fig. 6 shows the experimental photos of both the filaments with dif-
ferent lengths. We have found three typical coupling modes, i.e. the anti-
symmetrical in-phase mode, the symmetrical out-of-phase mode, and the
indefinite mode. The values of the Strouhal number relevant to the vortex
shedding are approximately 0.2. To understand the mechanisms involved
in this problem, the temporal linear instability analysis is carried out based
on a simplified hydrodynamic model (Jia et al. 2007).
Natural selection helps animals to obtain the highest propulsive effi-
ciency. It means that animals can use the minimal energy to propel them-

--- Page 158 ---
152
selves over a longer distance in a preferred Strouhal number. The Strouhal
number of filament flapping indicates that the fundamental flapping mode
may correspond to the minimal energy state. As shown in Fig. 6, the out-
of-phase mode has a higher frequency than the in-phase one when the
Strouhal number keeps around 0.2, implying that the flapping amplitude of
the out-of-phase mode is smaller than that of the in-phase one. The smaller
amplitude can help the filament keep itself at a lower potential energy
level. The results obtained by Jia et al. (2007) are of helpful in understand-
ing the mechanism of fluid-body interaction and natural selection of ani-
mal locomotion for high propulsive efficiency.
4 Theoretical Modeling and Analysis on Flow around a
Waving Plate and a Flapping Plate
To understand the fundamentals of hydrodynamic characteristics relevant
to animal propulsion, theoretical modeling and analysis are performed for
flow around a waving plate and a flapping plate.
3 
1.5
{a) 
k=3 
(b) 
k=6
——s—~ a= 
—s— anol
26 
——e— 2=02 
Tt 
—+— a=9.2
——_e—. a-03 
—o——_ a= 03
Oo 
uO
i. 
0.5F
Ob cre 0,8 
; 
: 
;
6 
8 
10 
12 
6 
8 
10 
12
@ 
@
Fig. 7. Time-averaged thrust coefficient versus the frequency for the dif-
ferent amplitudes and wavenumbers: (a) k=3 and (b) A=6.
The hydrodynamic characteristics of two-dimensional unsteady flow
around a waving plate are examined theoretically. Under large Reynolds
number approximation, the flow is assumed to be a combination of the
outer potential flow and a thin vortex layer, which consists of a boundary
layer and a shed free shear layer. The viscous effect is assumed to be con-
fined to the thin boundary layer. Then a nonlinear mathematical formula-
tion for describing the outer unsteady potential flow coupled with an un-
steady boundary layer equation for the inner viscous flow adjacent to the

--- Page 159 ---
153
waving plate is developed (Zhang et al. 2007). Considering flow around a
waving plate, the motion of the plate is taken as
y=ax’ sin(kx 
— of) 
(5)
where a is the constant amplitude, 
the frequency, and k the wavenumber.
We suppose that no stretch occurs during the course of deformation of the
waving plate. The thrust and viscous drag coefficients, propulsive effi-
ciency, and the pattern of wake vortex sheet are analyzed for different am-
plitudes, frequencies, and wavenumbers (Zhang et al. 2007). The thrust
coefficient C; is shown in Fig. 7, which indicates that the thrust increases
with the frequency @ and the amplitude a at constant wavenumber &. It is
seen that the thrust decreases with the increase of the wavenumber.
Further, an innovative theoretical modeling approach is established for
highly unsteady and viscous flow excited by a flapping plate (Yu et al.
2003, Yu and Tong 2005). Based on the reasonable assumption that the
flapping Strouhal number is a dominant parameter in the flow, or the
Strouhal number St >>1/Re, we propose a simplified dynamic model. The
outside flow field of the flapping plate is regarded as the unsteady poten-
tial flow, where Laplace equation is applicable, and Kutta conditions
should be satisfied at both the leading- and trailing-edge of the plate,
where the vortex motions are described by discrete vortices. The present
method has been validated to prove that it can give qualitatively correct
and quantitatively reasonable results (Yu et al. 2003). Furthermore, the to-
tal fluid-dynamic force based on this approach can be decomposed into
three parts: one due to the added inertial (or mass) effect, the other and the
third due to the induction of vortices shed from the leading- and trailing-
edge and their images, respectively, and this decomposition is of helpful in
analyzing the control mechanisms in animal locomotion.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China (No. 10332040), the Innovation Project of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences (No. KJCX-SW-L04), the Program for Changjiang Scholars and
Innovative Research Team in University, and the Fund for Foreign Schol-
ars in University Research and Teaching Programs. The authors sincerely
thank Professors L. X. Zhuang, J. Z. Wu, J. M. Yang and Y. L. Yu for
their generous collaboration.

--- Page 160 ---
154
References
Dong GJ, Lu XY (2005) Numerical analysis on the propulsive performance and
vortex shedding of fish-like travelling wavy plate. Int J Numer Methods Flu-
ids 48: 1351-1373
Dong GJ, Lu XY (2007) Characteristics of flow over traveling-wavy foils in a
side-by-side arrangement. Phys Fluids (in press)
Jia LB, Li F, Yin XY, Yin X Z (2007) Coupling modes between two flapping
filaments. J Fluid Mech 581: 199-220
Jing J, Yin XZ, Lu XY (2004) The hydrodynamic analysis of C-start in Crucian
Carp. J Bionics Engin 1: 102-107
Jing J, Yin XZ, Lu XY (2005) Experimental and theoretical investigation on fast-
start of yellow catfish (Pelteobagrus fulvidraco). Prog Nat Sei 15: 34-40
Li XM, Wu YF, Lu XY, Yin XZ (2003) Measurements of fish’s wake by PIV.
Proc SPIE — Int Soc Opt Eng 5058: 139-145
Liao Q, Dong GJ, Lu XY (2004) Vortex formation and force characteristics of a
foil in the wake of a circular cylinder. J Fluids Struct 19: 491-510
Lu X Y, Liao Q (2006) Dynamic responses of a two-dimensional flapping foil mo-
tion. Phys Fluids 18: 098104
Lu XY, Yin XZ (2005) Propulsive performance of fish-like travelling wavy wall.
Acta Mech 175: 197-215
Lu XY, Yang JM, Yin XZ (2003) Propulsive performance and vortex shedding of
a foil in flapping flight. Acta Mech 165: 189-206
Videler JJ (1993) Fish Swimming. Chapman & Hall, London
Wu JZ, Lu XY, Zhuang LX (2007) Integral force acting on a body due to local
flow structures. J Fluid Mech 576: 265-286
Wu JZ, Pan ZL, Lu XY (2005) Unsteady fluid-dynamic force solely in terms of
control-surface integral. Phys Fluids 17: 098102
Wu JZ, Lu XY, Denny AG, Fan M, Wu JM (1998) Post-stall flow control on an
airfoil by local unsteady forcing. J Fluid Mech 371: 21-58
Yu YL, Tong BG (2005) A flow control mechanism in wing flapping with stroke
asymmetry during insect forward flight. Acta Mech Sinica 21: 218-227
Yu YL, Tong BG, Ma HY (2003) An analytic approach to theoretical modeling of
highly unsteady viscous flow excited by wing flapping in small insects. Acta
Mech Sinica 19: 508-516
Zhang C, Zhuang LX, Lu XY (2007) Analysis of two-dimensional unsteady flow
around waving plates. J Engin Math (submitted)
Zhao L, Jing J, Lu XY, Yin XZ (2006) Measurements and analysis of force and
moment of caudal fin model in C-start. Prog Nat Sci 16: 796-802

--- Page 161 ---
Chapter 13
Optimisation of Fish Shape and Swim Mode in Fully
Resolved 2-D Flow Field by Genetic Algorithm with
the Least Square Prediction Method
Shintaro TAKEUCHI”, Sho KUSUDA! and Takeo KAJISHIMA!
! Department of Mechanical Engineering, Osaka University, 2-1 Yamada-oka, Suita-
city, Osaka 565-0871 Japan
Summary. Optimisation of fish shape and swim mode is attempted in fully-resolved
flow fields by genetic algorithm (GA) facilitated by efficient prediction method of
target functions. Arbitrary Lagrangian Eulerian method is employed for solving
the flow field around the moving 2-D fish swimming by undulatory motion propa-
gating from head to tail tip. The fish performance is optimised with characteristic
five parameters for targeting maximum cruising speed. For identifying the average
cruising speed (in steady swimming state), a least square prediction (LSP) method
is developed. The LSP is found to effectively reduce the computation time spent for
searching the optimal solutions in the above GA process. The results demonstrate
the capability of our method for efficiently solving this type of optimisation problem
including the surrounding fully resolved flow field in a feasible computational time.
Keywords. Fish Shape and Swim Mode, Cruising Velocity, Genetic Algorithm,
Least Square Prediction, Random-Search and Mathematical-Programming
1 
Introduction
Finned aquatic animals, like fish and dolphin, often exhibit extraordinary physical
capabilities for swimming speed, efficiency and steep turn. Meanwhile, ship and
undersea vessel have been using rotary propeller to get thrust. If the above fish-like
propulsion system is applied to the man-made vessels, it may be able to control noise
or improve efficiency. In fact, several prototypes of robot fish have been launched
already, and in the future the competition in the development and improvement of
robot fish is expected to be further accelerated. However, it is not realistic to test all
the possible types of robot, because one robot fish has many adjustable parameters
to identify shape and swim mode. Therefore, a sophisticated method is needed to
seek a best-performing solution, i.e. optimisation, efficiently.
A number of optimisation algorithms are known, and those can be mainly classi-
fied into (1) recursive approach based on mathematical-programming and (2) heuris-
tic approach based on random-search algorithm. Examples of the first approach in-
clude linear/dynamic programming, variation method, simplex method and penalty
method. These methods commonly assume the gradient(s) of the target function to
Present Address: Dept. Mechanical Engineering, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8656 Japan
155

--- Page 162 ---
156
be zero in a continuous function space. Therefore the methods offer efficient optimi-
sation when the system is known or easily assumed. However, for large systems, it
tends to be computationally expensive to obtain the gradients, and a unique solution
is not always guaranteed when the solution space has multiple minima. The second
approach is, on the other hand, suitable for problems with multi-minimum solutions
in a multi-dimensional parameter space, as it does not assume gradient of the tar-
get function within the optimisation theories, but retrieve a better solution with the
high-performance candidates through some heuristic mechanisms. Therefore this
approach is suitable for optimisation of unknown systems. Among the heuristic
approaches, there is one particular technique, genetic algorithm (GA), used for op-
timisation of machine learning or function design under Pareto-efficiency. GA got
its basic ideas from the natural evolution and selection systems of individuals in a
group of families; i.e. reproduction, crossover and mutation, which are essentially
non-linear stochastic mixing processes. Due to the controlled non-linear processes
over long generations, GA works effectively with a non-linear fitness (target) func-
tion when the problem exhibits strong non-linearity (Michalewicz 1992). Therefore,
with a digital selection mechanism, GA is expected to solve the non-linear problems,
inaccessible by the mathematical-programming methods.
GA has gained popularity for a variety of optimisation problems. For robot fish,
for example, Barrett (2002) conducted some experiments to optimise fish locomo-
tion by directly incorporating the experimental results into GA, and reported that
GA works effectively for achieving desired robot-fish functions. Also, Kuo and
Grierson (2003) employed GA to search efficient prospective gait based on compu-
tational results. The number of parameters optimised in their work was five; each of
them is a major characteristics determining carangiform locomotion. They obtained
fully evolved samples by allowing 50 samples to cross-bread for 120 generations.
However, the model for fluid-object interaction by Kuo and Grierson was rather
simplified and restricted by employing an empirical fluid drag model. Generally,
object’s movements are affected by fluid motion passing by it and vortical struc-
tures in the wake (Smith and Wright 2004; Takeuchi et al. 2006). 
Also, some
pioneering researchers (Liu et al. 1996; Carling et al. 1998) attempted full-scale
simulations past undulatory object and analysed the interaction between the flow
structures and object behaviours in detail. 
It is of importance to include the effect
of fluid motions with the full scales into the GA process.
The present authors have recently demonstrated the usefulness of the GA for op-
timising fish’s performance (travelling distance in a certain period of time and trav-
elling efficiency) in a fully resolved flow field with a parallel computation library
(Kusuda 2007). However, even with the aid of parallel processing, optimisation on
steady travelling speed is not an easy task, as time-averaged cruising speed is an
expensive target (as explained later). In addition, the elapsed times until the cruis-
ing speeds are achieved are different from individuals, which causes computational
inefficiency as some processors (of superior samples) have to wait for the poorer

--- Page 163 ---
157
L
' 
A 
‘
i 
7
. 
- 
‘
:
Surface 
L_
Fig. 1. Stationary form (left) and typi- 
Fig. 2. Schematic of fish’s deformation
cal deformed form (right)
samples until the next cross-breeding event takes place. In this study, we look at
the possibility of reduction in the computational time for optimised performances
on cruising speed through an original method of least square prediction (LSP).
2 
Governing Equations and Numerical Methods
2.1 
Governing Equations
A body-fitted curvilinear coordinate system is employed for fluid phase. In the
present study, we apply altering coordinates to fit the object surface which changes
the shape with time in a prescribed manner.
Governing equations of the fluid are the Navier-Stokes (N-S) equation and the
equation of continuity for incompressible fluid. Arbitrary Lagrangian Eulerian (ALE)
method (Hirt et al. 1974) is used to include the effect of the altering mesh.
Motion of the fish body is governed by preservation of linear and angular mo-
mentums for translating and rotating motions, respectively. For time-advancement,
a time-development scheme based on Wilson’s linearly-extrapolated acceleration
method (Smith and Griffiths 2004) is applied.
2.2. 
Fish model
Figure | shows a schematic of the stationary and deformed positions of the fish.
NACAOOxx series hydrofoil is used as the fish model at the stationary position.
In the present study, the maximum amplitude a is varied in a range including
0.2, which is reported as a typical amplitude of a real fish’s movement (Bainbridge
1958). 
From the thickness of the hydrofoil h, the hydrofoil model (NACAO0Oxx)
is determined as xx=100h/L. Fish is allowed undulatory motion from head to tail
continuously. Wavenumber & of undulatory motion (Fig.1, right) is tested in the
range between 0 and 0.4. Here, zero wavenumber means that every point on the
backbone is set in phase (in-phase motion), and non-zero wavenumber causes some
phase-lag between arbitrary two points on the deformable part (phase-lag motion).

--- Page 164 ---
158
Frequency f determines the speed of the undulatory motion propagating down to-
wards the tail tip as 22 f /k. The major deformable length of the body (responsible
for generating thrust) is 
L—/, in the rear, and the position x = /, gives the minimum
amplitude along the entire body as suggested by Yu et al. (2004) for robotic-fish’s
manoeuvre.
Deformation on the fish body is decided as follows. First, a displacement of
the fish centre line (i.e. spine) is given in y-direction, and then displacement in x-
direction is determined without changing the entire body length. Position of the i-th
node of the backbone, x(t) and y(t), is prescribed by the following equations of
travelling wave:
yi(t) = R(x})W(t) sin(2x 
ft — ka?) 
(1)
x}(t) = af y(t) + AP cos di, 
(2)
~1y)?/(L-1y)? 
(0 <a <ly)
Rie) = § eel 
f 
f 
3
= (cele 
ten 
@)
t — sin(2nt)/({27) 
(0<t<1)
a 
~~
W(t) = { 1.0 
<2) 
4)
where A? is length of each backbone segment, ¢; angle between fish peduncle and
the neutral line given as tan ¢; = (y? — y?_,)/(x? — x?_,). The number of back-
bone segments is 60, and therefore A°=./60. The first weight function R(x) de-
termines the local amplitude at the position x. The second weight function W(t)
takes the advantage of zero gradients for W and W at t=0 and 1, which enables a
smooth start-up and connection to the steady undulatory motion at both times. And
then, the fish surface is placed at a given distance (h; /2) in both directions from the
spine, where fh; is the initial body thickness at the backbone node 7.
Figure 2 illustrates the above deformation process. For both extreme values of
k (0 and 0.4), volume deviations during the swim are found to differ no more than
107 from the initial value.
2.3 
Numerical conditions
In the present study, fish is set in an open space of stationary fluid. C-type mesh is
used to represent the object surface and the fluid domain. Figure 3(a) shows a mesh
near the object, and Fig.3(b) outlines the computational domain and boundaries.
The computational domain is a semi-circle of diameter 8 in the front of the fish
and 7 in length in the behind. Boundary condition of fluid velocity is the non-slip
condition at the surface of the fish (N), and the instantaneous velocities of the object
are assigned for the grid velocities at the inlet boundary (A). The convective bound-
ary condition is used at the out-flowing boundary (C), and a traction-free boundary
condition is employed at the upper and lower straight sections of the C-type mesh
(T). At the object surface, the same pressure boundary condition of Nakamura et al.
(1993) is applied.

--- Page 165 ---
159
SS 
SSRN
SS
Sg
SS
TTT
mgs
Ze Src
Le paggOPeseesit iii
Led py OUTTA
LU TH
(a) Grids near the object 
(b) Domain size and boundaries
Fig. 3. Grid system and boundary conditions.
The number of grid points is 240x40. There are 120 grid points along the
fish surface. 
With an increased spatial resolution, 28050, we have confirmed
that the simulation results (velocity profiles of the fish) differed by no more than
1%. 
Computational mesh fitted to a deformed fish is given every time step by an
elliptic mesh generation algorithm. Residuals in the grid generation procedure were
reduced to 10~® within SO iterations at steady state. 
The simulation results were
found to agree very well with those employing a stricter convergence threshold of
10-8.
The flow field obtained by the ALE was validated through comparison with
the simulation results conducted independently in a body-fixed (non-inertial) frame
of reference by the present authors (Takeuchi et al. 2006). We confirmed good
agreements for time histories of drag and lift coefficients as well as instantaneous
pressure distributions.
3 
Specific Study of the Propulsive Stage
Some specific cases of typical fish characteristics are studied to see the fundamentals
of the interaction between the fluid and the deformable hydrofoil. In this section, a,
h, ly and f are set to 0.2L, 0.12L, 0.1L and 1, respectively. Two wavenumbers k=0
and 0.4 are tested to observe the fluid behaviours past the object. Hereafter, all the
velocity values are normalised by the reference velocity travelling one body length
fina unit-time.
Figures 4(a) and 4(b) compare the results of fish velocities and instantaneous
flow fields in the transitional propulsive stage for different k values. Negative ve-
locity value means that the object is moving in —x direction. From the velocity
diagrams, the fishes experience large accelerations in both x and y directions after
t=1. Then, for both k cases, 
x component of the velocity develops exponentially
with fluctuations, and it is expected that the velocities would eventually attain stable
oscillations around the constant cruising velocities. Within the time range tested,

--- Page 166 ---
160
0
0.2 
oe 
oS 
rity 
15 
a
04 
0.2 
3 10
2 
201 
5
B - 
S 
a=)
Fe 
8 
0 
2 0;
$08 
$0.1 
2-5
1 
0.2 
*.40
42 
0.3 
15
1.4 
ae 
“20
0 
2 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12 
14 
16 
0 
2 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12 
14 
16 
0 
2 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12 
14 
16
time 
| 
time 
| 
. 
time 
.
(a) x velocity 
(b) y velocity 
(c) angle with respect to —2 axis
mm as 
—s0
= 
te ase
(d) k=0 (In-phase motion) 
(e) k=0.4 (Phase-lag motion)
Fig. 4. Fish velocities and flow fields. (a)(b)(c) time evolutions of fish velocities
and angles; (d)(e) instantaneous pressure and velocity fields in slip streams.
the terminal velocities are not attained, and the diagrams suggest that it could gen-
erally take a relatively long time to estimate steady cruising speed. On the other
hand, stable oscillations are observed for y components of the velocity and angles
of the body with respect to —a axis for both cases. The time-averaged velocities in
y direction are —3.6 x 1073 and —3.0 x 10~* for k=0 and 0.4, respectively. Also,
the time-averaged angles with respect to —x axis are 0.32[deg] and —0.11[deg] for
k=0 and 0.4, respectively. Therefore, the fishes travel almost straight ahead for both
cases. In our previous study (Kusuda et al. 2006) the fish exhibited specific trav-
elling orientations (-3.0[deg] and 18.4[deg] for the respective k values). However,
those orientating tendencies have been cancelled by employing the present undula-
tory mode which covers from head to tail. The result suggests that the study in fully
resolved flow field allows analysis of sensitive directivity (or controllability) of fish.
Figures 4(d) and 4(e) compare instantaneous pressure and velocity fields in the
slip streams of k=0 and 0.4, respectively. Flow fields similar to our previous results
(Kusuda et al. 2006, 2007) are obtained, as the present fish employs the same undu-
latory motion for the deformable rear part as Kusuda et al. (2006, 2007). The case
with the smaller wavenumber (k=0) exhibits stronger vortices in the slip stream than
the larger k case. Generally, fish’s total gain in momentum is dependent on the mo-
mentum held by the discharged vortices. This may explain the larger fluctuations in
the velocities and the angle observed in Fig.4(a) through to 4(c). The major outcome
from the analysis of the flow fields of Kusuda et al. (2006) is briefly summarised
for the convenience of discussion in the subsequent sections. The fish with a larger
wavenumber (phase-lag motion) is more efficient in converting the hydrodynamic

--- Page 167 ---
161
force into propulsion, while the fish with a smaller phase-lag (smaller &) effectively
transfer kick power to fluid to get a stronger thrust by generating stronger vortices.
The results show that only a fully-resolved flow field enables analysis and prediction
of dynamic fish-fluid interaction at this level.
4 
GA with Least Square Prediction (LSP)
It would be interesting to determine what fish shape and swim mode give optimal
solution in terms of cruising speed in steady state. To address this issue, a genetic al-
gorithm (GA) is employed. As observed in Fig. 4(a), fish’s travelling velocity in the
longitudinal direction increases exponentially until it reaches a steady state. How-
ever, time-averaged terminal velocity is only obtained by averaging the velocities
over several periods after reaching steady state. This process is often computation-
ally expensive. Therefore, an efficient method for predicting the steady speed is
needed. In the present study, both the velocity evolution and the terminal velocity
are predicted by a least square prediction (LSP) method.
4.1 
LSP of asymptotic cruising speed of fish
A data sequence (t;,;) (@=1,---, N) obtained by simulation is fitted with the fol-
lowing exponential equation:
v(t) =Vi(1-e%) 
(5)
where V; and g are terminal velocity and temporal decrease rate, respectively. The
above two parameters are determined so that the following sum of the squared errors
from the simulation result is minimised:
L=S"(ults) 
— 0)? = SW {Vil —e) 
— uP 
(6)
The minimum state is attained when aa = oe =0 is satisfied. After eliminating V;,
the following equation is obtained for g:
S> vi(l-e #) s> tie 
9 (1—e 9) — we —e iy? > vitie 
9 =0. (7)
The above equation is solved by Marquardt method (Marquardt 1963). The least-
squared V; is given as follows:
Vi = Spoil —e) / Sod er. 
(8)
Figure 5 shows some typical results of travelling speed in x direction (dotted
line), covering from initial propulsive stage to steady stage. The LSP is applied to
the sections depicted by thick solid line (1 < t < 6), and the terminal velocities are
predicted with 
N=100 data points sampled at 0.05 unit-time intervals. In the present

--- Page 168 ---
162
0 
: 
° 
. 
°' 
regression
02 
. 
. 
02 
02
04 \ fit region 
04 
fit region 
04
20s 
1 
06 
06
8.08 
08 
’ 
08 
raw data
“A 
regression.» 
1 
: 
;
* raw data 
"2 
regression “2, fit region —
4 
‘4 raw data 
4
8 
5 
10 
15 
200 
2% 
MW 
MS 4 45 8 ed 
5 
10 
15 2 2 3 3 40 
45 
BD 8 
2 
4 
6 
8
time 
time 
time
(a) Sample A 
(b) Sample B 
(c) Sample C
Fig. 5. Typical velocity diagrams and fitting results with regression equation (5).
Dotted line: raw travelling speed in x direction, thick solid line: regression region
of LSP, thin solid line: regression curve.
case, the data points are shifted by (—t,,—v,) so that the fittings always start from
the origin.
The regression curves are shown in the same figure by thin solid line. The maxi-
mum and minimum errors between the predicted and the real time-averaged terminal
velocities are found to be 7.5% for Sample A and 1.2% for Sample B, respectively.
Here the real terminal velocities are calculated by averaging the instantaneous ve-
locities over 20 periods in the steady stages for the first two samples and over 5
periods for sample C. The terminal velocity for Sample A is clearly underesti-
mated. However, our preliminary study shows that the errors in V; are negligible
as the asymptotic velocities and the decrease rate of the exponential curves become
large. Therefore, the LSP provides sufficient accuracy for predicting time-averaged
terminal velocities for high-performance samples. Also, it should be noted that the
LSP enables significant reduction in the computation time (including the periods for
averaging the velocities) for obtaining asymptotic terminal velocities: by 3/5 times
for sample C and 1/8 times for samples A and B. This is an important aspect of the
LSP as the GA can identify a potential fast swimmer from a small fraction of its
swim record.
4.2. 
Numerical Conditions for GA
The following five parameters are varied in search of the optimised performance for
the fish: a, lp, h, f and k. Each parameter has 16 equally-divided quanta in the
respective range including the values studied in the previous section. The ranges are
shown in Table 1. Density ratio of the fish to fluid is set to 5. Fit regions of the LSP
are restricted within 5 unit-times, and the fitting starts between t=0 and | depending
on the onset of the exponential increase in the velocity.
Along with the attempt to optimise the time-average terminal velocity, the GA
result obtaining the highest travelling speed in a given time is also compared. The

--- Page 169 ---
163
Table 1. Ranges of GA parameters 
Table 2. GA conditions
a/L 
ly 
~~ AJL 
of 
~~“ 
Number of individuals 
8
Min. | 0.08 
0 
0.08 
060 
0 
Number of generations 
30
Max. | 0.23 
0.255 
023 
135 
G4 
Probability 
of Crossover | 0.3
Probability of Mutation 
| 0.01
2.5
a
cruising 
speed, 
velocity
% 
5 
10 
15 
20 
25 
30
generation
Fig. 6. Progress of travelling speed in GAt and GAi
following two fitness functions, f; and f,, are introduced:
GAt: f; = Vj: average terminal cruising speed in 
— x direction by LSP
GAi : {, = instantaneous speed in ~ x direction at t= 10
where GAt and GAi are GA session names targeting optimisation of f, and fs,
respectively. In both cases, a higher fitnesses value means a better performance. The
major difference of the two GA sessions is that GAt does not consider the elapsed
time to attain the terminal velocity, whereas GAi accounts for acceleration in the
initial stage. The conditions used for both sessions are summarised in Table 2. Both
GA sessions start with the individuals of the same set of parameters determined
randomly. 
In a preliminary study, we confirmed similar trends of fitness for two
different sets of initial random numbers (and in turn different sets of individuals) for
two independent GA sessions.
Ina GA session, the samples within one generation are evolved in parallel with a
parallel computation library. As the LSP provides predictions from a fix-term record
for each sample, the samples of better performance are less likely to be kept waiting
for the others. This parallelisation policy promises an efficient use of computational
resources.
4.3 
Results and discussion
Figure 6 compares the progresses in fitness (f; and f,) in GAt and GAi. Both
GAt and GAi acquire remarkable capabilities of travelling speed as generation goes,
except in the generations between 20th to 30th. The reason for the decrease in

--- Page 170 ---
164
aay 
_
0.08 
Amplitude: a 
0.23 
0.08 
“Amplitude:a 
= 
(ti.28
0.75 
Major deformable length: pL _ 1.0 
0.75 
Major deformable jength: aaa ° 
1.0
0.08 - 
“Thickness:k 
0.23 
0.08 
. 
“Thickness: k 
0.23
0.60 
"Frequency: f . 
1.35 
0.60 
- Frequency: f 7 
: 
4.35
0.0 
. 
Wavenumber: k 
0.4 
0.0 _ - Wavenumber: k 
04
(a) 20th Generation 
(b) 30th Generation
Fig. 7. Comparison of fish parameters at 20th and 30th generations in GAt (0) and
GAi (A)
performance in this decade is that the random number generator of the GA failed to
hand over the genes of the good performers. However, the GA finally bred again the
characters showing roughly the same performance as the 20th generation through
its selection mechanism.
GAt and GAi follow the similar growth curves, though GAt exhibits some neg-
ative data-shift against GAi. This may be because in the initial generations GAt
underestimates the terminal velocity, as observed in Fig.5{a). However, the LSP is
shown to improve the accuracy of prediction as the generation descends.
It should be noted that the total computation time for GAt is reduced to about
60% compared to GAi as terminal velocity of each individual is estimated between
t=5 and 6 by the LSP.
Figure 7 compares the parameters for GAt and GAi at the 20th and 30th gen-
erations. Circular symbol represents GAt, and triangular symbol is GAi. Similar
trends are observed for these two generations. Among the optimised parameters of
GAt and GAi, a significant difference in wavenumber exists for these generations.
As summarised in the previous section, 
a smaller wavenumber is suitable for ob-
taining a stronger thrust. Therefore the fishes optimised by GAi show a stronger
acceleration in the initial propulsive stage and, so attains a faster travelling speed
in a short time. The results of GAt and GAi lead to the following conclusions: to
attain a faster travelling speed (whether or not within a finite time), the fish should
have a thin body (/) and twist a large part of the entire body (L — i) at a moderate
frequency (/) with a large amplitude (a). Detailed analysis of the effect of each pa-
rameter on travelling speed (with higher resolution for the parameters) is the subject
of ongoing research by the present authors.
Figure 8 shows variation of the velocity of the fish optimised in the GAt session.
The best performing fish attains a terminal velocity of about the same value as pre-
dicted by GA with LSP. The results suggest that the combination of heuristic and
analytical approaches enables prediction of asymptotic terminal velocity at reduced

--- Page 171 ---
165
velocity
~
wm
no
28
time
Fig. 8. Velocity evolution of the best performing fish. The parameters at 30th gen-
eration of GAt are employed.
computation load.
5 
Conclusions
Two dimensional simulation of fully resolved flow field past a fish-like deformable
hydrofoil was conducted. Optimised performance of the fish was studied by apply-
ing a genetic algorithm (GA) facilitated by a prediction method for the performance.
The results with the fixed parameters show that a fully resolved flow field en-
ables prediction of the detailed flow structures and the effect of the swim mode on
the swimming dynamics (including fishes’ terminal velocities and orientations).
Fish shape and swim mode were optimised for higher cruising speed by GA
in conjunction with a least square prediction (LSP) method. The fishes’ velocity
profiles were successfully reconstructed, as asymptotic profiles, by the LSP from
a small fraction of the swim record of individual fishes. 
The GA results showed
that wavenumber of the undulatory motion was found to have more influence on
the fish’s accelerations and terminal cruising velocities than the other parameters
employed (amplitude, major deformable length, body thickness and frequency).
The snap prediction method from a fixed-term record (LSP) allowed improved
compatibility with parallel-processing. In addition, it facilitated the GA greatly in
selecting the samples of a higher cruising velocity. Further, the LSP was shown
to effectively cut down the turn-around times for prediction of average terminal
velocities and, hence, the total computation time for GA.
The present study demonstrated the capability and effectiveness of our combined
heuristic and analytical approach, i.e. GA with LSP, in solving the optimisation
problem by employing a fully-resolved flow field surrounding a deformable object.
References
Bainbridge R (1958) The speed of swimming of fish as related to the size and to the

--- Page 172 ---
166
frequency and amplitude of the tail beat, 
J. Exp. Biol. 35:109-133
Barrett D (2002) Optimization of swimming locomotion by Genetic Algorithm,
NeuroTechnology for Biomimetic Robots, MIT Press, pp.207-221
Carling J, Williams TL, Bowtell G (1998) Self-propelled anguilliform swimming:
simultaneous solution of the two-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations and New-
tons’ laws of motion, J. Exp. Biol. 201:3143-3166
Kuo PD, Grierson D (2003) Genetic Algorithm optimization of escape and normal
swimming gaits for a hydrodynamical model of carangiform locomotion, Genetic
and Evolutionary Comp. Conf. Late Breaking Papers, Chicago, USA, pp.170-177
Hirt CW, Amsden AA, Cook JI (1974) An Arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian Comput-
ing Method for All Flow Speeds, J. Comp. Phys. 14:227-253
Kusuda S, Takeuchi S, Kajishima T (2006) 2-D Analysis of Fish Locomotion and
Optimization by Genetic Algorithm, Proc. 3rd International Symposium on Aero
Aqua Bio-Mechanics, Okinawa, Japan, Paper No.202
Kusuda S, Takeuchi S, Kajishima T (2007, To Appear) Genetic Algorithm Opti-
misation of Fish Shape and Swim Mode in Fully-Resolved Flow Field, Parallel
Computational Fluid Dynamics, Elsevier Science
Liu H, Wassersug RJ, Kawachi K (1996) A computational fluid dynamics study of
tadpole swimming, J. Exp. Biol. 199:1245-1260
Marquardt DW (1963) An Algorithm for Least-Squares Estimation of Nonlinear
Parameters, J. Soc. Indust. Appl. Math. 11-2:431-441
Michalewicz Z (1992) Genetic Algorithm, Springer-Verlarg
Nakamura Y, Jia W, Mizuno D (1993) A Numerical Method of Incompressible Flow
around Arbitrarily Moving Body, Trans. JSASS 41-469:40-47
Smith IM, Griffiths DV (2004) Programming the Finite Element Method (4th edn),
Wiley
Smith RW, Wright JA (2004) Simulation of Robo Tuna Fluid Dynamics using a New
Incompressible ALE method, 84th AIAA Fluid Dynamics Conference and Exhibit,
Portland, US, Paper No.2004-2347
Takeuchi S, Yamazaki T, Kajishima T (2006) Study of Solid-Fluid Interaction in
Body-Fixed Non-Inertial Frame of Reference, J. Fluid Sci. and Tech. 1-1:1-11
Yu J, Tan M, Wang S, Chen E (2004) Development of a Biomimetic Robotic Fish
and Its Control Algorithm, IEEE Trans. Sys. Man Cybernetics B, 34-4:1798-1810

--- Page 173 ---
Chapter 14
Modeling, Simulation and Optimization of
Anguilliform Swimmers
Stefan Kern, Philippe Chatelain, and Petros Koumoutsakos
Computational Science and Engineering Laboratory, ETH Zurich,
Universitaetstrasse 6, CH-8092, Switzerland
Summary. We present a computational framework for the modeling,
simulation and evolutionary optimization of anguilliform swimmers. The
hydrodynamics of anguilliform swimming is investigated by solving the
three-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations of incompressible flow past a
self-propelled body. An inverse design procedure is employed in order to
identify optimal swimming behavior. In this procedure, objectives such as
swimming efficiency and burst swimming speed are pre-specified and the
motion of the body is obtained through an evolutionary algorithm. The re-
sults support the hypothesis that anguilliform swimmers modify their
kinematics according to different objectives.
The present simulations provide a detailed quantitative analysis of the
swimming motion and the forces experienced by the body. The optimiza-
tion of swimming speed is associated with large tail motions and a straight
anterior part of the body. In contrast, efficient swimming is associated with
significant lateral undulations along the entire length of the body. The
wake of the investigated swimming modes, consists largely of a double
row of vortex rings with an axis aligned with the swimming direction. The
vortex rings are responsible for producing lateral jets of fluid, which has
been documented in prior experimental studies. Comparison with a trout-
like swimming pattern reveals that anguilliform swimming has superior ef-
ficiency for the same body geometry and flow regime.
Key words. Anguilliform swimming, hydrodynamics, fluid-body interac-
tion, self-propelled, optimization, evolutionary algorithms.
1 Introduction
Anguilliform swimming is the primary mode of locomotion for numerous
aquatic species across a range of diverse taxa. Anguilliform swimmers
propel themselves forward by propagating waves of curvature towards the
posterior of the body and this type of locomotion is widespread among
167

--- Page 174 ---
168
species, ranging in scales from nematodes to eels (Miiller et al., 2001).
Starting from the pioneering work of Gray in 1933 (Gray, 1933), anguilli-
form swimming has attracted the attention of researchers from diverse sci-
entific fields, ranging from neuroscience to hydrodynamics (Ekeberg,
1993; Tytell and Lauder, 2004). 
A number of experimental studies using
Particle Image Velocimetry (Miiller et al., 2001, Tytell, 2004; Tytell and
Lauder, 2004) reported on swimming kinematics and flow characteristics.
Computational studies of anguilliform swimming include simulations with
prescribed motion patterns (Carling et al., 1998, Liu and Kawachi, 1999,
Leroyer and Visonneau, 2005) and prescribed bending moments (Pedley
and Hill, 1999) generating the undulating swimming motion. A compre-
hensive survey of the hydrodynamics of fishlike swimming can be found
in (Triantafyllou et al., 2000).
The goal of this study is to investigate anguilliform swimming using
three-dimensional simulations of a self-propelled eel-like body immersed
in a viscous fluid. The present simulations are coupled with an optimiza-
tion procedure in order to test the hypothesis that distinct motion kinemat-
ics and resulting wake patterns correspond to different swimming modes
(Miiller et al., 2001). In this work, the fish motion is not a-priori specified.
Instead, the motion parameters are obtained by optimizing objective func-
tions corresponding to fast and efficient swimming, using an evolutionary
optimization algorithm. The simulations provide detailed information of
the complete flowfield enabling the quantification of the vortex formation
and shedding process and allow comparisons with related experimental
works (Miiller et al., 2001; Tytell, 2004; Tytell and Lauder, 2004). In addi-
tion, the simulations enable the identification of the force distribution
along the self-propelled body and their link with the kinematics of the
body and the vorticity dynamics of the wake. It is demonstrated that dis-
tinct swimming kinematics and body force distribution correspond to dif-
ferent swimming modes. A comparison with a trout-like swimming pattern
reveals superior efficiency of the anguilliform swimming modes for the
given body geometry and flow regime.
2 Methods
The computational model solves the three-dimensional Navier-Stokes
equations for the incompressible, viscous flow past a deforming, anguilli-
form body. The time dependent motion of the body is defined by the two-
dimensional deformation of its mid-line, allowing for yaw, but no pitch or
roll motions. The fluid-body interaction includes forces in all three coordi-
nate directions and the torque perpendicular to the plane of the deforma-

--- Page 175 ---
169
tion of the mid-line (yaw). The reader is referred to Kern and Koumoutsa-
kos (2006) for a complete description of the computational setup.
2.1 Geometrical Model and Parameterization of the Motion
The three-dimensional geometry of the anguilliform swimmer with body
length ZL is constructed from spatially varying ellipsoid cross sections. The
length of the two half axis w(s) and A(s) of the cross sections are defined as
analytical functions of the arc length s along the mid-line of the body:
2
V2w,s—s 
O<s<s,
w(s)= w, -(w, -w, [(s—s,)/(s, - 8, f 5,55<5, 
(1)
w (L-s)/(L-s,) 
8, S5SL
h(s) = by 1—[(s - a)/af 
(2)
The parameters are set to w,=s5,=0.042, s=0.95L, w=0.01Z, a=0.51L, and
b=0.08L.
The motion of the body is described by the time dependent curvature «
of the mid-line of the body defined as
x(s,t)= K(s)-sin[22(¢/T - 2(s))], 
(3)
where K(s) is the cubic spline through the m interpolation points K;,
i=1,...,m, Ks) is the phase shift along the body, and T is the cycle time. In
the current study we choose the phase shift / (s) to be linearly proportional
to the position s along the body, i.e. r(s)= 7, 
5/L.
We have tried to maintain a minimum number of parameters and found
that m=4 interpolation points, evenly distributed along s combined with a
linear phase shift suffice to allow a wide range of motion patterns.
tail
2.2 Optimization
The 6 parameters Ky. 4, / tail, and T define a realization of a motion pattern
according to Eqn 3 and 4 and are obtained through an optimization proc-
ess. We implement an Evolution Strategy with Adaptation of the Covari-
ance Matrix (CMA-ES) (Hansen and Kern, 2004; Hansen and Ostermeier,
2001). Three different objectives have been optimized that may correspond
to biological functions such as hunting/escaping (for the burst velocity) or

--- Page 176 ---
170
migrating (for the efficient swimming). The corresponding objective func-
tions are described in the following.
2.2.1 Maximize swimming efficiency for prescribed undulation
frequency
We relate optimizing swimming efficiency 7 to maximizing the ratio be-
tween the kinetic energy of the forward motion and the work per swim-
ming cycle. We define
mB?
2W.cycle
tS, 
» Woo = i -o-n-u dS 
dt , 
(4)
where m is the total mass of the body, U the mean asymptotic swimming
velocity, o the viscous stress tensor with oj=-pd;+7;, n the outer surface
normal vector, and u the velocity of the moving surface S. 7, is maximized
and 1/7=1 is kept constant. Note that classical Froude efficiency is not
applicable to a self-propelled body as drag and thrust cancel out in the as-
ymptotic swimming state.
2.2.2 Maximize swimming efficiency for prescribed swimming speed
tot
The mean total input power P., needed to swim at a prescribed speed U,
is minimized. We define
fp =P +Cy(U, -UY, P=" f|-e-n-wasar, 
(5)
where Cy=10.0 is a scaling factor for the quadratic penalty term; fp is
minimized. We set U, to the swimming speed obtained in the optimization
of swimming efficiency with prescribed undulation frequency.
2.2.3 Maximize swimming speed for prescribed undulation frequency
and constrained input power
The objective function for burst swimming is defined as the sum of the
mean swimming velocity U and two terms that penalize high mean and
peak input power requirements motivated by natural physiological limits.
We define
fy, =U-C, 
OP, —P,, XP.
max 
tot -P..) -C,-OP,, — Pi 
\Po, — Prax)» 
(6)
tot 
tot
where &.) is the Heaviside function, C,=10°, C,=10°, P= 2-10°, and
P= 4.810".

--- Page 177 ---
171
The maximum curvature of the mid-line was constrained in all optimiza-
tion cases, in the interval [0,27] in order to prevent too large deformations
of the body
2.3 Equations and numerical method
The system of the deforming body interacting with the surrounding fluid is
described by the 3D incompressible Navier-Stokes (NS) equations:
Du 
1
—=-—Vp+w’u, V-u=0,
Dp 
(7)
where D/Df=c/0t+u-V and v denotes the kinematic viscosity of the fluid.
These equations are solved along with the no-slip boundary condition on
the body surface S, ul s= R. coupled with Newton’s equations of motion
for the self-propelled body
mk, =F, 1¢+1¢,=M,. 
(8)
where F and M, are the fluid force and yaw torque acting on the body sur-
face, x, is the position of the center of mass of the body, ¢, its global an-
gular velocity, and £, the (time dependent) inertial moment about the yaw
axis. The feedback of the fluid torque is limited to the yaw direction to
simplify computations. The fluid force F and the torque M, are computed
as follows:
F=(lo-nds, M, = [Gn)x«-x,))e. as 
(9)
The feedback from the body to the fluid is realized by imposing no slip
boundary conditions on the moving body surface. The far field boundary
condition is set to a constant static pressure, modeling the fish propelling
itself through an infinite tank of still fluid. The NS equations were solved
using the Finite Volume package STAR-CD v. 3.15 that computes flows
using arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian grids. For the fluid domain, a deform-
ing structured grid with 3 10° cells in a cylindrical domain with a length
of of 8Z and a radius of 2Z is used. The domain moves with the center of
mass of the body. A detailed description of the approach, validation, and
convergence study is provided in Kern and Koumoutsakos (2006).
The simulations are conducted in non-dimensional units with body
length L=1, viscosity w=1.4 10%, and density of fluid and body ¥1. The
resulting Reynolds number Re = Oe is in the range of 2400-3900 de-
pending on the swimming mode. The time step used is A=5-10%. All simu-

--- Page 178 ---
172
lations are started with the body at rest, and the motion is initialized by
gradually increasing the curvature amplitude from K(s) = 0 to its desig-
nated value during the first cycle.
3 Results
We present swimming kinematics, hydrodynamic forces, and wake mor-
phology for the swimming patterns obtained using the three different ob-
jective functions f,, fe, and fy. In addition, results for a trout-like motion
pattern are presented where the undulation frequency is adjusted to match
the swimming speed of the motion optimized for fast swimming.
Table 1 summarizes the optimized motion parameters and the kinemat-
ics of the resulting motions. The evolution of the unsteady longitudinal and
lateral velocities is shown in Fig. 1. The motion pattern obtained using f,
resulted in an asymptotic swimming velocity of 
/=0.33 in turn used as
desired swimming velocity in fp. The characteristics of the different
swimming patterns become evident by the amplitude envelopes of the
body plotted in Fig. 2. Efficient swimming involves a coordinated undula-
tion of the whole body while the fast swimming motion is characterized by
an increased tail amplitude and a reduced bending in the anterior part of
the body. The trout-like motion amounts to relatively small amplitude un-
dulations of the tail.
Table 1. Optimized! motion parameters, number of objective function evaluations
needed in the optimization process nya, asymptotic swimming velocity U , wave
velocity ¥, slip U /V, tail amplitude 4, Strouhal number S#2/4/u , and input
power P, and C,~2P, (pu’’S) for the four investigated swimming motions. V is
computed as the mean velocity of the zero crossings of the body mid-line.
Efficient (f,) 
Efficient (fp) 
Fast (fu) 
Trout-like
Ky.4 [4.37,2.22,6.07,3.07] {2.06,1.49,6.28,6.18] [1.29,0.52,5.43,4.28] [0.25,0.50, 1.50,3.80]
Tai, P1-71, 1.0 
1.69, 1.06 
1.52, 1.0 
1.0, 0.48
Nevais 460 
1485 
460 
-
vu 
0.33 
0.32 
0.47 
0.46
V 
0.60 
0.59 
0.74 
1.61
U/V0.55 
0.54 
0.63 
0.29
A 
0.11 
0.11 
0.14 
0.08
St 
0.67 
0.65 
0.59 
0.75
P, 
8.7-107 
8.1-107 
2.1-10° 
2.8:10°
C, 
0.153 
0.162 
0.124 
0.189
~
' The parameters not included in the optimization are in italics.

--- Page 179 ---
173
2 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12
Fig. 1. Unsteady longitudinal and lateral velocities for A: the efficient swimming
cases using f, (black) and fp (grey), and B: the fast swimming fj (black), and the
trout-like motion (grey).
ofA 
> | 
_ th.
> 0) 
_SSSYy
0.1) 
} 
i}
-0.4 
-0.2 
0 
0.2 
04 
-0.4 
-0.2 
te) 
0.2 
04
x 
x
Fig. 2. Amplitude envelopes of the body mid-line including the feedback from the
fluid forces of A: efficient swimming using f, (black) and fp (grey), and B: fast
swimming (black), and trout-like motion (grey).
i) 
2 
4 
12 0 
2 
4 
6 
8 
10 
12
6 
8 
10
Fig. 3. (A) Unsteady longitudinal and lateral force and moment coefficients C),
C\, and Cy for the efficient swimming cases using f, (black) and fp (grey), and (B)
C;, C., and Cy for the fast swimming fj (black), and the trout-like motion (grey).

--- Page 180 ---
174
3
segment
Fig. 4. Time averaged fluid forces in swimming direction acting on the fish sur-
face for the five segments from head (1) to tail (5) for the efficient swimming mo-
tion using f, (+), efficient swimming using fp (x), fast swimming (A), and trout
swimming motion (O). Positive values relate to drag, negative to thrust.
Figure 3 shows the longitudinal and lateral net force Cj=2F\/(pU *S) and
C.\=2F /(pU’S), and the moment on the body Cy=2M,/(pU 7LS). Regions
of the body responsible for drag and thrust production were identified by
analyzing the longitudinal forces on five segments of equal length from
head to tail (c.f. Fig. 4).
The flow fields of the different swimming motions are visualized in
Figs. 5 and 6. Fig. 5 shows the vorticity normal to the image plane and the
velocity components in plane for cross sections at mid-height of the body.
All four swimming motions show strong lateral jets in the wake, separated
by two same-sign vortices. The 3D structure of the flows is shown in Fig.
6 by plotting isosurfaces of vorticity magnitude. In all four swimming mo-
tions the vorticity shed at the tail forms a double vortex ring wake respon-
sible for the characteristic lateral jets.
4 Discussion
We compare the results of the present simulations with the experimental
investigations reported by Miiller et al. (2001) and Tytell and Lauder
(2004) and identify differences between the optimized swimming modes
and trout-like swimming. We remark that the Reynolds number in the ex-
perimental studies is a factor of 5-30 higher than in our simulations. The
good qualitative agreement of the wake structure obtained in our simula-
tions with the reported flow patterns in these studies justifies, in our opin-
ion, a comparison of the results.

--- Page 181 ---
175
A 
€
4a 
,
9,7
= 
NN ce
re 
ae
B
Fig. 5. Velocity field and vorticity normal to the image plane @,=q-e, for (A) effi-
cient swimming using f,, (B) efficient swimming using fp, (C) fast swimming and
(D) trout-like swimming.
Fig. 6. Left: Snapshot of iso-surfaces of vorticity magnitude |!@|}=2 for (A) effi-
cient swimming using fp, (B) fast swimming, and (C) trout-like motion after the
body has reached its asymptotic mean swimming velocity. Right: Iso-surfaces of
vorticity magnitude ||@||=2 colored by the local value w,=@-e, of for (A) efficient
swimming using fp, (B) fast swimming, and (C) trout-like motion.

--- Page 182 ---
176
4.1 Swimming kinematics and hydrodynamic forces
The mean swimming velocity obtained in the present simulations lies well
within the range of 0.26-0.5 body length cycle’ reported in experimental
studies (Miiller et al., 2001; Tytell, 2004; Tytell and Lauder, 2004). The
values for the slip U/V of 0.55, 0.55, and 0.63 obtained for the two effi-
cient and the fast swimming mode respectively, are slightly below the ex-
perimental values ranging between 0.6 and 0.73. The largest discrepancy
between simulations and, experimental studies is found in the Strouhal
number. The values for St in our simulations lie clearly above the values
reported in Miiller et al. (2001) and Tytell (2004) and the range of 0.2-0.4
identified for efficient oscillatory propulsion of swimming and flying ani-
mals (Taylor et al., 2003). This discrepancy may be attributed to the re-
duced Reynolds number and will be addressed in future investigations.
Force and input power comparisons with experiments are difficult due
to the limited data available. In Tytell (2004) a value of C, = 0.038 is com-
puted based on two-dimensional PIV data, which is a factor 3-5 smaller
than the values obtained in the present simulations.
The swimming velocities of the fast and the trout-like swimming exceed
the velocities of the efficient patterns by a factor of 1.4. The undulation
frequency for the trout-like swimming is doubled compared to the opti-
mized cases. Including the cycle time T as parameter in the optimization of
efficient swimming results in a slight decrease of the undulation frequency
and a minor increase of the swimming efficiency compared to optimization
based on /,. Computing the energy needed to cover a given distance the ef-
ficient swimming based on fp outperforms the motion based on f, by 4%,
the fast swimming motion by 77%, and the trout-like motion by 141%.
The low efficiency of the trout-like motion suggest that this type of swim-
ming is not suitable for the given body geometry and swimming velocity.
The segmentwise analysis of the longitudinal forces acting along the
body (Fig. 5) reveals that for the fast swimming mode thrust is almost ex-
clusively produced at the tail, while for the efficient swimming mode, the
middle part of the body has a considerable contribution to the thrust. In
trout-like swimming thrust is exclusively produced at the tail. The results
for the efficient swimming pattern support the hypothesis (Blickhan et al.,
1992; Miiller et al., 2001), that anguilliform swimmers produce thrust not
only with their tail but also with parts of the body anterior to the tail.
4.2 Wake morphology
The wake patterns obtained for our 3D simulations are in good qualitative
agreement with 2D PIV measurements of real anguilliform swimmers

--- Page 183 ---
177
(Mueller et al., 2001, Fig 6, p. 2755, Tytell and Lauder, 2004, Fig. 5, p.
1831) and show the characteristic lateral jets reported in these experimen-
tal studies. The wake structure and the shedding mechanism are similar for
all four simulated swimming patterns. The main differences in the vortical
structures are related to the strength of the secondary vortices. The shed-
ding of the double vortex rings is accompanied by complex secondary flow
structures that are generated by the transversal motion of the body, con-
vected downstream, and eventually shed in the wake. In the fast swimming
case the secondary structures are much stronger than in the efficient cases
and the vortex rings are stretched in the swimming direction, forming jets
that are 1.4 times wider than the ones observed in efficient swimming.
The short distances in swimming direction of the vortex rings for the trout-
like swimming is also reflected in the very small value of U/V=0.29.
We postulate that in addition to the motion pattern, the body geometry
and the Reynolds number may have a considerable influence on the forma-
tion and shedding of the wake. Continuous caudal fins observed in many
species of anguilliform swimmers presumably serve to control the forma-
tion of the secondary vortex structures. Simulations with increased Rey-
nolds number and investigations of the influence of the body geometry
(back and anal fins, etc.) and body motion will help to clarify this issue.
4.3 Concluding remarks
We have presented 3D simulations of optimized self-propelled anguilli-
form swimming in a viscous incompressible fluid. An inverse design pro-
cedure is employed in order to identify optimal swimming patterns: the
swimming motions are not described a-priori but are obtained through an
evolutionary optimization. This enables a systematic exploration of the
motion parameter space and the identification of distinct swimming modes
corresponding to different objective functions. In fast swimming, strong
tail motions have been observed while efficient swimming involves a har-
monious undulation of the whole body. The swimming kinematics and
wake structures obtained in the present simulations agree well with ex-
perimental data and further elucidate the mechanisms of anguilliform
swimming. The interplay of body shape and motion was further investi-
gated by considering a trout-like motion applied to the eel-like body. The
results indicated a largely reduced swimming efficiency compared to the
optimized anguilliform motions.
We wish to acknowledge enlightening discussions with Ulrike Miiller.
Financial support of the Swiss National Science Foundation is acknowl-
edged.

--- Page 184 ---
178
References
Blickhan R, Krick C, Zehren D, Nachtigall W and Breithaupt T (1992) Generation
of a vortex chain in the wake of a subundulatory swimmer. Naturwissen-
schaften 79:220-221
Carling J, Williams TL, and Bowtell G (1998) Self-propelled anguilliform swim-
ming: simultaneous solution of the two-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations
and Newtons’ laws of motion. JEB 201:3143-3166
Ekeberg O (1993) A combined neuronal and mechanical model of fish swimming.
Biological Cybernetics 69:363-374
Gray J (1933) Studies in animal locomotion I. The movement of fish with special
reference to the eel. JEB 10:88-104
Hansen N and Kern S (2004) Evaluating the CMA evolution strategy on multimo-
dal test functions. In Parallel Problem Solving from Nature - PPSN VIII, vol.
3242, pp. 282-291
Hansen N and Ostermeier A (2001) Completely derandomized self-adaptation in
Evolution Strategies. EC 9:59-195
Kern S and Koumoutsakos P (2006) Simulations of optimized anguilliform
swimming. JEB 209:4841-4857
Lauder GV and Tytell ED (2006) Hydrodynamics of undulatory propulsion. Fish
Biomechanics 23:425-468
Leroyer A and Visonneau M (2005) Numerical methods for RANSE simulations
of a self-propelled fish-like body. J. Fluids Struct 20:975-991
Liu H and Kawachi K (1999) A numerical study of undulatory swimming. J.
Comput. Physics 150:223-247
Miiller UK, Smit J, Stamhuis EJ and Videler JJ (2001) How the body contributes
to the wake in undulatory fish swimming: Flow fields of a swimming eel
(Anguilla anguilla). JEB 204:275 1-2762
Pedley TJ and Hill SJ (1999) Large-amplitude undulatory fish swimming: Fluid
mechanics coupled to internal mechanics. JEB 202:3431-3438
Schmidt J (1923) Breeding places and migration of the eel. Nature 111:51-54
Taylor GK, Nudds RL, and Thomas ALR (2003) Flying and swimming animals
cruise at a Strouhal number tuned for high power efficiency. Nature 425:707-
711
Triantafyllou MS, Triantafyllou GS and Yue DKP (2000) Hydrodynamics of Fish-
like Swimming, Annual Review of Fluid Mechanics 32:33-53
Tytell ED and Lauder GV (2004) The hydrodynamics of eel swimming I. Wake
structure. JEB 207:1825-1841
Tytell ED (2004) The hydrodynamics of eel swimming U. Effect of swimming
speed. JEB 207:3265-3279
van Ginneken V, Antonissen E, Miller UK, Booms R, Eding E, Verreth J, and van
den Thillart G (2005) Eel migration to the Sargasso: Remarkably high swim-
ming efficiency and low energy costs. JEB 208:1329-1335

--- Page 185 ---
Chapter 15
A Numerical Study of Hovering
Aerodynamics in Flapping Insect
Flight
Hikaru Aono! and Hao Liw
' Graduate School of Science and Technology, Chiba University, 1-33
Yayoi-cho, Inage-ku, Chiba 263-8522, Japan
* Graduate School of Engineering, Chiba University, 1-33 Yayoi-cho,
Inage-ku, Chiba 263-8522, Japan
Key words. Aerodynamics, CFD, Flapping-flying insect, Leading-edge
vortex, Reynolds number
Summary. In this paper, the Re (Reynolds number)-dependence of the
unsteady aerodynamics in a flapping-flying insect was investigated. To this
end, we developed a multi-block- and overset-grid-based in-house CFD
solver and constructed a wing-body geometric and kinematic model based
on measurements of a hawkmoth. Insect-flight computations were carried
out with the same insect model but under different Re conditions that
characterize two insects, namely, fruit fly (Re=134) and hawkmoth
(Re=6300), respectively. The computed flow fields at Re=6300 exhibited
an evident leading-edge vortex (LEV) along with a strong spanwise flow
inside it. At Re=134, an evident LEV is predicted as well but without the
presence of a strong spanwise flow inside it. The main features of the flow
fields computed at both Re conditions agreed well with previous
experimental results. The computed mean lift coefficient at Re=134 was
considerably smaller than that at Re=6300, which was found to result from
the relative augment of viscous effect on force generation at lower Re.
1 Introduction
Aerodynamic mechanisms underlying insect flapping flights have been
addressed both experimentally and numerically on numerous insects
varying in size, shape and wing-kinematics, such as a hawkmoth
(Ellington et al. 1996; van den Berg and Ellington 1997; Willmott and
Ellington 1997; Liu and Kawachi 1998; Liu et al. 1998) and a fruit fly
(Dickinson et al. 1999; Ramamurti and Sandberg 2002). These studies
179

--- Page 186 ---
180
arrived at a general agreement that delayed stall, which was featured by a
prolonged leading-edge vortex (LEV), was an essential aerodynamic
mechanism responsible for augmenting lift production in insect flights.
Since insects fly in a wide Re range (from ten to several thousands), there
exists an interesting issue on how the aerodynamic performance of an
insect depends on its wing-body size (or to say, Re). Concerning this issue
research yet remains rare.
Ellington et al. (1996) visualized an LEV on the wing of a hawkmoth in
tethered flight (Re=4000). Afterward, Dickinson et al. (1999) revealed a
similar LEV in a fly-wing robotic experiment. More recently, the presence
of the LEV on the wings of a butterfly in free flight was confirmed by
Srygley and Thomas (2002). On the other hand, in recent years, CFD has
been widely applied in insect flight studies. CFD-based insect flight
simulations not only confirmed the existence of the LEV, but also
deepened our understanding of the dynamic structure of the LEV, on a
basis of detailed flow field information (Liu and Kawachi 1998; Liu et al.
1998; Wang 2000; Ramamurti and Sandberg 2002).
Recently, to investigate how the aerodynamic performance of a flapping
wing changes with Re, several computational and experimental studies
have been carried out (Wang 2000; Sun and Gang 2003; Birch et al. 2004).
Wang (2000) elucidated that at Re larger than 150, lift generation was
dominated by dynamic pressure rather than by viscous force. Sun and
Gang (2003) concluded that the delayed stall was the main high-lift
mechanism for insect flights operating in a fairly wide Re range
(75~4000). Birch et al. (2004) demonstrated that the structure of the LEV
at Re=120 differed significantly from that at Re=1400. Miller and Peskin
(2004) proposed that the vortex dynamics around a flapping wing at low
Re might become recognizably different from at high Re.
Stable attachment of the LEV on wings has generally been considered to
benefit from the presence of a spanwise flow which drains energy from the
vortex core into the tip vortex in large-insect flights (Ellington et al. 1996;
Liu et al. 1998). Usherwood and Ellington (2002) confirmed stable
attachment of the LEV at both high (5000) and low (120) Re but without a
detailed analysis of the transient spanwise flow. It seems like that the
spanwise flow only contributes to LEV stability at high Re.
The 
above-mentioned 
studies 
provided 
significant 
insights 
into
aerodynamic mechanisms underlying insect flights. However, the majority
of the 
numerical 
studies 
were 
limited 
to 
2D 
(two-dimensional)
computation, and the experiments were generally lacking in sufficient
precision in visualizing flow field. For this reason, the detailed 3D
(three-dimensional) dynamic structure of the LEV and the spanwise flow

--- Page 187 ---
181
generated by flapping wings in insect flights is yet incompletely
understood.
The purpose of this study is to investigate the dependency of
aerodynamic performance of insect flight on insect size (Re), with special
emphasis on the structure of the LEV and the spanwise flow. To this end,
we develop a multi-block- and overset-grid based in-house CFD solver,
and construct wing-body geometric and kinematic models based on
measurements of a hawkmoth. Herein, we focus on fruit fly (fly at a
characteristic Re of 134 with a wing length of 0.3cm) and hawkmoth (fly
at a characteristic Re of 6300 with a wing length of 5.0cm), which
represent two typical insects most popularly investigated in the field of
insect flight. Some of the computed results are compared with the relevant
experimental data or computed results reported previously. Based on the
detailed flow field information offered by computations, we make an
extensive discuss on the change in the LEV structure and the spanwise
flow with Re. Moreover, in two Re conditions, we analyze quantitatively
the relative contributions of inviscid and viscous terms to aerodynamic
force as well.
2 Materials and Methods
2.1 Computational geometric model of a hawkmoth
The geometric modeling procedure consists of the imaging to digitally
process images of an object; the segmentation to extract the object
configuration in terms of wire frame and/or skeleton model; the smoothing
and curve/surface fitting for the reconstructed geometric model; and the
modeling and domain discretization, which involve surface and/or volume
rendering of the reconstructed object as well as the computational domain
decomposition in terms of grids. With these methods, a realistic geometric
model of the hawkmoth, Agrius convolvuli, with a body length of about 5.0
(A)
Computational
Real moth << - 
model
Fig. 1. 
A geometric model of the hawkmoth, Agrius convolvuli, A: A
hawkmoth with a computational model superimposed on the right half. B:
A multi-block grid system of the two wings and body of the hawkmoth
(wing: 45 X 45 X31, body: 45 
47 X95),

--- Page 188 ---
182
cm, and a wing length of 5.0 cm is constructed (figure 1A). Each cross
section of the wing and the body is then defined to have an elliptic
configuration by using the two cross-sectional radii as well as the wing-
and body-axis. The thickness of the wing assumes a uniform, which is set
to be 1.2% of the mean chord length as observed in most hawkmoths.
More details on the methodology of geometrical modeling can be found in
the reference (Liu and Kawachi 1998)
2.2 Computational wing-body kinematic model of a hawkmoth
The kinematic model of a hawkmoth-flapping wing was built on a basis of
a Fourier series expression of the kinematics of a hovering hawkmoth,
Manduca sexta (Willmott and Ellington 1997; Liu and Kawachi 1998).
The body-fixed system (x, y, z) illustrated in figure 2A has its origin at the
wing base, with the x-axis normal to the stroke plane, the y-axis vertical to
(A)
Stroke plane
(B) 
so
Positional angle 
— - Elevation angle 
Feathering angle
a a 
— a 
a 
se.
. 
as 
aie 
AS
Pronation 
Downstroke 
Supination 
Upstroke
Fig. 2. Schematic diagram of the computational wing-body model. (A)
Definition of the positional angle (¢), the elevation angle (0), the
feathering angle (@), stroke plane angle (/), and body angle (7); and (B)
Time courses of the three angles of the wing over a flapping cycle.

--- Page 189 ---
183
the body axis, and the z-axis parallel to the stroke plane. 3D movements of
the wing consist of three basic motions (1) flapping about the x-axis in the
stroke plane described by the positional angle; (2) rotation of wing, about
the z-axis, out of the stroke plane on either side described by the elevation
angle; (3) feathering of the wing (leading-edge) with respect to the stroke
plane by varying the feathering angle.
Time courses of the three angles of the wing over a flapping cycle are
plotted in figure 2B. The parameter K is the reduced frequency defined by
20 fCm/2U 
rr, Where f is wingbeat frequency; c,is the mean wing chord
length (reference length) and Uj. is a reference velocity at the wing tip.
Urer is defined as 2@Rf, where @ is the wingbeat amplitude and R 
is the
wing length. The Reynolds number(Re) is defined as, Re=cUied Vv, where v
is the kinematic viscosity of air, 1.5 < 10° m’sec’'. For the hawkmoth, ¢n=
1.83 cm, R= 5.0 cm, @ = 2.0 rad (115 degree), fF 26.1 sec’, thus Re is
approximately 6300 and K is 0.298. The hawkmoth weight is 1.6 grams,
body angle (f) is 40 degree as well as stroke plane angle (y) is 15 degree
(Willmott and Ellington 1997).
2.3 Computational fluid dynamics solver
2.3.1 Single block grid system
The 
governing 
equations 
are 
the 
3D 
incompressible 
unsteady
Navier-Stokes (NS) equations, written in strong conservative form for
momentum and mass. The artificial compressibility method is used by
adding a pseudo time derivative of pressure to the equation of continuity.
More details of the CFD solver for single grid system can be found in the
references (Liu and Kawachi 1998; Liu et al. 1998).
2.3.2 Muiti-block grid system
The realistic geometric model of an insect with a body and two or four
wings is often of geometric complexity. Since the wings are attached onto
the body and flap rapidly, undergoing large-scale movements relative to
the body. It is necessary to tackle a challenging CFD problem of highly
unsteady vortical flows about multiple and moving bodies. A multi-block
and overset-grid method is hereby introduced and incorporated into the
in-house CFD solver (Liu 2005, in preparation), which utilizes three
single, structured grid systems for the body and the two’ wings,
respectively. Each single grid system is generated to fit the object (body or
wing), moving and deforming with the object. A tri-linear interpolation
technique is employed for communication of velocities and pressures
among overlapping grids (Liu 2005, in preparation). As shown in figure
1B, three single structured grids are generated for the body and the two

--- Page 190 ---
184
wings of the hawkmoth. The grid fitted to one wing has a dimension of
45x45x31 with its outer boundary 2.5 mean chord lengths away from the
wing surface; and the grid for the other wing is simply copied using the
relation of geometrical symmetry of the two wings about the body-axis.
The grid fitted to the body is taken much larger because it is used as a
background grid to envelope the two wing grids for the interpolation; and
it has a dimension of 45x47x95 with a distance of approximately 20 mean
chord lengths between the body surface and the outer boundary.
2.3.3 Boundary conditions
As shown in figure 
1, the solutions to the NS equations with a
multi-blocked, overset grid around a flapping-flying insect require
appropriate boundary conditions for the overlapping zones among the
different single grid block, the moving walls of the wing and body, and the
far-field outside boundary. For each single grid block as for a single wing
or body we use the fortified solutions to the NS equations by adding a
forcing term with communication of a vector q* to offer the boundary
conditions for velocity and pressure in the overlapping zones of the two
grids. Inside the computational domain except the holes and the single grid
boundary the fortified governing equations are solved. Therefore, for the
three single grid blocks as in the two-winged and body model of an insect,
the fortified NS equations are solved three times at each time step.
On the body surface, the nonslip condition is used for the velocity
components. To incorporate the dynamic effect due to the acceleration of
the oscillating body (moving and/or deforming body surface), pressure
divergence at the surface stencils is derived from the local momentum
equation. For the background grid of the insect body we need to define
appropriate boundary conditions at the outside boundary (figure 1B).
Consider that, when an insect flies forward at a speed V;, the boundary
conditions for the velocity and the pressure may be given such as: 1) at
upstream V(u, v, w)=V; while pressure p is set to zero; 2) at downstream
zero-gradient condition is taken for both velocity and pressure.
3 Results and discussion
Computations carry out with the identical hawkmoth wing-body geometric
and kinematic model under two Re conditions (Re=134 and Re=6300). The
vortical flows around the hovering hawkmoth model are computationally
visualized, with some of them compared with relevant experimental data
for both Re conditions. In particular, the computed flow fields at Re=134
are analyzed in detail. Then, the transient and mean lift and drag

--- Page 191 ---
185
coefficients are investigated in relation to the flow fields. Finally, the
viscosity effect is evaluated in quantitative terms via decomposing
aerodynamic forces into inviscid and viscous portions.
3.1 Flow fields around hovering hawkmoths
Figure 3A and B show the computed iso-vorticity surfaces during early
and 
middle 
downstroke, 
at 
Re=6300 
and 
Re=134, 
respectively.
Correspondingly, figure 3C and D illustrate that the computed spanwise
flow velocity contours and the velocity vector maps at the cross section at
60% of the wing length from the wing base during early and middle
downstroke. Note that the iso-vorticity surfaces are colored by the absolute
magnitude of vorticity.
3.1.1 Re=6300
A spiral vortex (LEV) attaches coherently on the leading-edge of the wing
during early and middle downstroke (figure 3A). During middle
downstroke, a strong LEV and an evident spanwise flow inside the LEV
core are predicted (figure 3A and C), as well as a sudden LEV breakdown
at approximately 70% of the wing length from the wing base (figure 3
A-2) 
are 
observed. 
The 
computationally 
visualized LEV 
agrees
qualitatively with those described in previous works (Liu and Kawachi
1998; Liu et al. 1998; van den Berg and Ellington 1997). The readers are
referred to Aono and Liu (2006) for more details on the time-variant LEV
structure over a complete flapping cycle.
3.1.2 Re=134
Figure 3B and D show that an existence of a stable LEV but without an
evident spanwise flow in the LEV core. And other than the LEV at
Re=6300, the LEV at Re=134 remains unbroken during the down- and
up-stroke (figure 3B). Moreover, a TV (wing tip vortex) at Re=134 seems
more stable than that at Re=6300. The computed vortical structure in the
vicinity of the leading edge is in reasonable agreement with that visualized
in experiments (Birch and Dickinson 2001; Birch et al. 2004).
3.1.3 Re-dependence of the spanwise flow
As the wings flap considerable flows direct from the wing base to the wing
tip above the wings are predicted (figure 3C and D). From an extensive
point of view, these flows can be termed general spanwise flows. Herein,
what we are really interested in is the spanwise flow present at the core of
the LEV allowing for the potential role of the spanwise flow in stabilizing
LEV (van den Berg and Ellington 1997; Liu et al. 1998). The computed
results illustrate in figure 3C and D indicate that the general spanwise

--- Page 192 ---
186
ra
LEV
tb 
q
0 
5 
10 
-10 
0 
1.0
Fig. 3. Computed flow fields around a hovering hawkmoth during early
and middle downstroke. (A, B) The LEV and the TV at Re=6300 and
Re=134, respectively. (C, D) 
The spanwise flow velocity contours and
the velocity vector maps at the cross section at 60% of wing length from
wing base during early and middle downstroke at Re=6300 and at
Re=134, 
respectively. 
Abbreviations: 
L.E., 
leading-edge; 
T-E.,
trailing-edge.

--- Page 193 ---
187
flows are not significantly different between Re=6300 and Re=134 in
terms of flow intensity and distributing pattern; while the spanwise flows
inside the LEVs differ considerably between the two Re conditions. At
higher Re (6300), the spanwise flow emerges at the core of the LEV in the
early stage of the downstroke and then enhances continuously following
the growth of the LEV till middle downstroke. At lower Re (134),
however, no identifiable spanwise flow is observed inside the LEV even
over a complete flapping cycle (Birch and Dickinson 2001). It has been
speculated that the spanwise flow, which drains energy from the LEV to
the TV, might make for the stable attachment of the LEV on the wing
thereby enhancing the delayed stall (Ellington et al. 1996; Liu et al. 1998).
Given that the speculation is reasonable, according to our computations,
the role of the spanwise flow in maintaining the stability of the LEV seems
to operate only in the cases of higher Re. In the case of lower Re, despite
of the absence of the spanwise flow, the LEV is quite stable without
breaking down and shedding during the down- and up-stroke. Therefore,
we consider that spanwise flow is not an indispensable factor for
stabilizing LEV, it becomes necessary only when the operating Re of an
insect is higher enough to yield strong LEVs that contain excessive energy.
In fact, 
a comparison between the computed vorticities of the LEVs at the
two Re conditions (Re=6300 and Re=134) indicates that the vorticity at
Re=6300 is much stronger than that at Re=134 (figure 3).
3.2 Evaluation of aerodynamic force generation
3.2.1 Aerodynamic force
The computed lift and drag coefficients of a wing are plotted as functions
of time in figure 4A-1 and B-1, respectively. Note that the lift and drag
coefficients of the body are not included because their values are relatively
small and hence negligible.
In both Re conditions, the waveforms of the time-variant lift and drag
coefficients are basically similar over a flapping cycle. Two peaks of lift
coefficient are predicted during each stroke. The lift peaks in a flapping
cycle occur at almost the same timings (early down- and up-stroke) for the
two Re conditions. Recalling the computed flow fields shown in figure 3A
and B, we consider that the first lift peak is associated with the delayed
stall. Such a viewpoint has also been held by other researches (Ellington et
al. 1996; Liu et al 1998; Sun and Gang 2003). During the supination and
the pronation, an evident valley of lift coefficient is predicted for both Re
conditions (see figure 4A-1), which is led to by the shedding of the LEV.
The overall magnitude of the time-variant lift coefficient at Re=134 is
slightly smaller than that at Re=6300, which is thought to result from the

--- Page 194 ---
188
different vortical structures, especially the LEV, in the vicinity of the
flapping wings at different Re (see figure 3A and B). By contrast, the
overall magnitude of the time-variant drag coefficient at Re=134 is a bit
larger than that at Re=6300, which is consider to be caused by the increase
in friction force with the increased fluid viscosity (lower Re). Such an
increase in drag with increased fluid viscosity is consistent with the
previous experimental results (Brodsky 1994). Moreover, mean drag and
lift coefficients are calculated by averaging the time-variant values over a
flapping cycle. As a result, the mean lift coefficient is 0.445 at Re=134,
and 0.533 at Re=6300; and the mean drag coefficient is 0.042 at Re=134,
and 0.090 at Re=6300.
+ 
= 
Lift 
(Re=134) 
Mean Lift (Re=134
— Lift (Re=6300) 
Mean 
Lift 
(Re=6300)
(A-1) Lift 
(B-1) Drag
(A-2) Lift (inviscid) 
(B-2) Drag (inviscid)
(A-3) Lift (viscous) 
(B-3) Drag (viscous)
Fig. 4. Time courses of aerodynamic force coefficients over a flapping
cycle. The curve of at Re=134 and at Re=6300 show blue-line and
red-line, respectively. The mean aerodynamic force coefficient indicates
green dot-line (Re=134) and orange dot-line (Re=6300), respectively.

--- Page 195 ---
189
3.2.2 Relative contributions of inviscid and viscous terms to
aerodynamic force
Further quantitative analysis is conducted to investigate the relative
contributions of inviscid and viscous terms to aerodynamic force. To this
end, the transient lift and drag coefficients are decomposed into inviscid
and viscous portions.
Inviscid aerodynamic force
The time-variant inviscid lift and drag coefficients are plotted in figure
4A-2 and B-2, respectively. The results for the two Re conditions are
almost the same over a flapping cycle except during the early down- and
up-stroke. The mean inviscid lift and drag coefficients are 0.568 (80.5% of
total mean lift) and 0.064 (74.4% of total mean drag) at Re=134; and are
0.5326 (99.996% of total mean lift) and 0.093 (97.1% of total mean drag),
respectively, at Re=6300.
Viscous aerodynamic force
Shown in figure 4A-3 and B-3 are the time-variant viscous lift and drag
coefficients, respectively. It is evident that the time courses of both the
viscous lift and drag differ significantly between Re=134 and Re=6300 in
terms of the shape and the amplitude of waveform. For instance, the
overall amplitudes of both the viscous lift and drag waveforms at Re=6300
are much smaller than those at Re=134. The mean viscous lift and drag
coefficients are -0.123 (19.5% of total mean lift), and -0.022 (25.6% of
total mean drag) at Re=134; and are 0.0002 (0.004% of total mean lift),
and -0.0028 (2.9% of total mean drag), respectively, at Re=6300.
Quantitatively, the contribution of viscosity to aerodynamic force at
Re=134 is more than 10 times that at Re=6300. Therefore, at lower Re,
fluid viscosity is an important physical factor affecting the generation of
lift and drag in flapping flight; while at higher Re, inviscid term (dynamic
pressure) plays a dominant role in aerodynamic force generation. Similar
conclusions have been drawn by Wang (2000) who carried out a series of
computations on a flapping 2D single wing.
In this study, we elucidate the significant dependency of both the flow
fields and the aerodynamic force on Re via computing the hovering
hawkmoth under the two Re conditions (Re=134, 6300). Re=6300
represents the operating Re of a real hawkmoth, while Re=134 is in fact in
the Re range of a real fruit fly. The reason we performed computations
under different Re conditions but with an identical wing-body geometric
and kinematic model of a hawkmoth is that we have intended to
investigate Re effect only. However, as a matter of course, insects existing

--- Page 196 ---
190
in the nature fly in a wide Re range and employ various wing-body
kinematics. For instance, the flight of a fruit fly is quite different from that
of a hawkmoth in terms of not only the range of Re but also the movement
of wing. For a specific insect, the wing-body morphology, the size, and
wing-body kinematics combine to determine the aerodynamic performance
of flight.
Acknowledgement
We would like to acknowledge the anonymous referees for their valuable
comments and suggestions on the manuscript. This work was partly
supported by 
a PRESTO/JST (Japan Science and Technology Agency),
entitled of A Biology-inspired Dynamic Flight Simulator, and the
Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research of No. 18656056 and No. 18100002.
The computations were performed in a supercomputer (RSCC), RIKEN
(The Institute of Physical and Chemical Research), Japan. Hikaru Aono
thanks Dr. Fuyou Liang for his valuable comments on the manuscript and
his help in the English writing.
References
Aono H, Liu H (2006) Vortical structure and aerodynamics of hawkmoth
hovering. Journal of Biomechanical Science and Engineering 1:234-245
Birch JM, Dickinson MH (2001) Spanwise flow and the attachment of the
leading-edge vortex on insect wings. Nature 412:729-732
Birch JM, Dickinson WB, Dickinson MH (2004) Force production and flow
structure of the leading edge vortex on flapping wings at high and low
Reynolds numbers. J. Exp. Biol. 207:1063-1072
Brodsky AK (1994) The evolution of insect flight, Oxford University Press,
pp 49-52
Ellington CP, van den Berg C, Willmott AP, Thomas ALR (1996)
Leading-edge vortices in insect flight. Nature 384:626-630
Dickinson MH, Lehmann F-O, Sane SP (1999) Wing rotation and the
aerodynamic basis of insect flight. Science 284:1954-1960
Liu H 
(2005) 
Simulation-based biological 
fluid dynamics 
in animal
locomotion. ASME, Applied Mechanics Review 58, 4:269-282.
Liu H Integrative modeling of insect flight: morphology, kinematics and
aerodynamics. (in preparation)
Liu H, Kawachi K (1998) A numerical study of insect flight. 
J. Comput. Phys.
146:124-156
Liu H, Ellington CP, Kawachi K, van den Berg C, Willmott AP (1998) A
computational fluid dynamic study of hawkmoth hovering. J. Exp. Biol.
201:461-477

--- Page 197 ---
191
Miller LA, Peskin CS (2004) When vortices stick an aerodynamic transition in
tiny insect flight. J. Exp. Biol. 207:3073-3088
Ramamurti R and Sandberg WC (2002) A three-dimensional computational
study of the aerodynamic mechanisms of insect flight. J. Exp. Biol.
205:1507-1518
Srygley RB, Thomas ALR (2002) Unconventional lift-generating mechanisms
in free-flying butterflies. Nature 420:660-664
Sun M, Gang DU (2003) Lift and power requirements of hovering flight. Acta
Mechanica Sinica, 19, 5:2413-2427.
Usherwood JR and Ellington CP (2002) The aerodynamics of revolving
wings. I. Model hawkmoth wings. J. Exp. Biol. 205:1547-1564
van den Berg C, Ellington CP (1997) The three-dimensional leading-edge
vortex of a ‘hovering’ model hawkmoth. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Land B
352:329-340
Wang ZJ (2000) Two dimensional mechanism for insect hovering. Physical
Review Letters 85, 10:2216-2219.
Willmott AP, Ellington CP (1997) The mechanics of flight in the hawkmoth
Manduca sexta |. Kinematics of hovering and forward flight. J. Exp. Biol.
200:2705-2722

--- Page 198 ---
Chapter 16
Stabilization of Flapping-of-Wings Flight of
a Butterfly, Considering Wakes
Kei Senda’, Masakazu Sawamoto', Masahiko Kitamura’, and
Tsuyoshi Tanaka”
' Graduate School of Natural Science and Technology, Kanazawa Univer-
sity, Kakuma-machi, Kanazawa, Ishikawa 920-1192, Japan
* Graduate School of Engineering, Osaka Prefecture University
Summary. This paper studies the flapping-of-wings flight of a butterfly,
which is rhythmic and cyclic in motion. 
The objective is to clarify the
principle of stabilization of the flapping-of-wings flight. For this purpose,
an experimental system with a low-speed wind tunnel is constructed for
fundamental data of flapping-of-wings motion, where the system measures
the aerodynamic force and the motion simultaneously using a measure and
an optical measurement system. A dynamics model of a butterfly is de-
rived by Lagrange's method, where the butterfly is considered as a rigid
body system. For the aerodynamic forces, a lumped-vortex method and a
panel method are applied. Validity of the mathematical models is exam-
ined by the good agreement of the numerical results with the measured
data. 
Then, periodic orbits of a flapping-of-wings flight are searched in
order to fly the butterfly models. Almost periodic orbits are obtained, but
both models in the flapping-of-wings flight are unstable. 
The unstable
level of the panel method model is smaller by considering free-vortices in
wakes. Meaning that the wake-induced flow has a type of feedback stabi-
lization effect.
1 Introduction
Butterflies fly irregularly and their flapping-of-wings flights do not seem
to be controlled. But, in reality their flights are well controlled because
they do not crash to the ground and can perch on flowers for honey. But-
193

--- Page 199 ---
194
terflies can maintain desired flapping-of-wings flights stably against envi-
ronmental uncertainties and variations, e.g. gust, weight gain and loss, etc.,
because of their adaptation-capability, even though they cannot repeat the
same movement with sufficient accuracy like robots. There are some fea-
tures in the flight of the butterfly, e.g. small flapping frequency (Azuma
1992) and small Reynolds number. Moreover, the flow to the wings is un-
steady because of the flapping motion. Those features may have some ef-
fect on the flight.
The objective of this study is to clarify the principle that enables the
flapping-of-wings flight. The flapping-of-wings flight of a butterfly might
be realized by intricately-intertwining with many factors, i.e. air flow over
wings, motion of the butterfly's wings and body, and so on. 
There are
many unknown points for the stable flight, e.g. “how the butterfly moves,”
“how the control is realized,” etc.
To clarify the unknowns, this research proceeds by the following plan
(Senda et al. 2003, 2004):
1. derivation of dynamics model and simulator construction,
2. experimental measurement of butterfly motions and aerodynamic
forces, and
3. discussions 
for 
the 
stable 
flapping-of-wings 
flight 
through
simulations.
This paper reports on the results obtained from the plan. Item 1 derives
some models with aerodynamics formulation using a lumped-vortex
method and a panel method. In item 2, experimental data of the flapping
motions and the aerodynamic forces are measured and validity of the
mathematical models is examined by the good agreement with the meas-
ured data. 
In item 3, a periodic trajectory of flapping-of-wings flight is
searched in order to fly each butterfly model. 
The flapping-of-wings
flights obtained from the models are instable. Instability is decreased in
the panel method by considering free-vortices in wakes.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. A butterfly is considered
as a rigid multi-body system, and a dynamics model is developed by La-
grange's method in the second section. In the third section, aerodynamic
forces are formulated by a lumped-vortex method and a panel method, and
the characteristic flapping-of-wings aerodynamic effects are considered.
In the fourth section, an experimental system with a low-speed wind tunnel
is constructed for fundamental data acquisition of flapping-of-wings mo-
tion, where the system measures aerodynamic force and motion simultane-
ously by a measure and an optical measurement system. In the fifth sec-
tion, measured data are compared with numerical results and validity of
the mathematical model is examined. In the sixth section, periodic orbits
of flapping-of-wings flights are searched in order to fly the butterfly

--- Page 200 ---
195
model, and stabilities of the flights are discussed. The final section gives
concluding remarks.
2 Mechanism and Mechanics of Butterfly
2.1 Outline of Flapping Mechanism
The flapping mechanism can be considered as an almost one degree-of-
freedom vibrating mechanism. 
A butterfly vibrates the mechanism for
flapping of the wings. According to experimental observation, each but-
terfly has an almost constant flapping eigenfrequency. It may be because
to vibrate sympathetically at eigenfrequency of the mechanism realizes ef-
ficient flapping motion (Azuma 1992). Other direct muscles can add slight
motions, which are in the extent of modification to the basic vibration.
2.2 Mechanics as Rigid Multi-body System
A butterfly is modeled by a rigid multi-body system as well as typical ro-
bot modeling, which is simple dynamics modeling. 
For more precise
modeling, it will be desirable to consider a flexible multi-body system be-
cause experimental observations have found that butterfly wings are elasti-
cally deformed by aerodynamic forces.
The butterfly model is a multi-body system with 4 links as shown in Fig.
1, which is composed of the thorax Bt considered as the main body, the
abdomen Ba, the left wings WL, and the right wings WR. Both the model
and its motions are supposed to be symmetrical. A pair of fore and hind
wings on each side is modeled by a plate as shown in Fig. 1. The joint be-
tween the thorax and wing has 3 rotational degree-of-freedom (DOF) and
the joint between the thorax and the abdomen has 1 DOF.
Link WRY rN 
:
Inertia frame 
‘ae 
| (mks 
Amaxten:
ia 
fr 
; 
:
j 
Jp 
ALE py, 
» | 
angle 0, —
Io *) 
Thorax 
: << 
& IBa Pa =a J
=e 
— 
; 
~~
i 
> angle @, jf Ty Link a .
me 
Link Bt 
°
ky 
: Kp,
2 Lead-lag 
- 
jwr
jz 
angle A a 
ky) Ae
f 
angle
5 
~~ AG 
/
+21 
2—= 
aN el 
tg
ste 
“WL
angle
Fig. 1. Frames and coordinates for modeling of a butterfly

--- Page 201 ---
196
In the figure, the frame © has a set of orthonormal bases [i j k], coordi-
nates of which are referred as x, y, z. The X; is the inertial reference frame,
Xp thorax-fixed frame, X,, abdomen-fixed frame, Ly, left-wing-fixed
frame, and Xe right-wing-fixed frame. The i; corresponds to the butter-
fly’s traveling direction, and i-k, is the sagittal (symmetry) plane. Rotat-
ing &; about Gj; yields X,,, rotating X,, about -6,/z, outputs Xp,, a sequence
to rotate Xs, via 1-3-2 Euler angles with f+ n/2, -7, and -@results in Ly.
The following Lagrangian equations of motion are obtained:
M6 
+ M6 12 @ 6). =T 
(1)
2 00 
00
where the generalized coordinates are 9= [x z @ 6, B 1 6)’. As illus-
trated in Fig. 1, x, z, and @ are the x, z-positions and the attitude angle of
the thorax, 6, the abdomen angle, / the flapping angle in up-down direc-
tion, 7 the lead-lag angle, and @ the feathering angle representing torsion
angle. The M and V are the inertia matrix and the gravitation potential en-
ergy, respectively. The vector T= ty+ Tontroi iS the generalized forces cor-
responding to @ where ty and ono) are the aerodynamic torque and the
joint control torque, respectively, developed in the following sections.
3 
Aerodynamics of Butterfly
3.1 Fundamental Computation Methods
The aerodynamic force to a wing is the sum of the inertia force of added
mass and aerodynamic force 7, that is a function of the flow velocity. The
mass of fluid moving with the wing is called added mass. The added mass
has been considered in the left-hand side of Eq. 1, and z, will be derived in
following subsections. 
For fundamental aerodynamic forces applied to
wings, we have developed two computation methods, i.e. a simple method
(Sunada et al. 1993) and a vortex method (Senda et al. 2003, 2004). In ad-
dition to them, this study develops a panel method model. This paper does
not mention the simple method.
Viscosity should be considered in the model because of the low Rey-
nolds number Re~10° for the butterfly. However, both computational and
experimental evaluations show that the viscous drag is approximately
0.5% of the maximum drag. Since the viscous effect is negligible, the po-
tential flow theorem might result in good agreement with the real flow.
3.1.1 Lumped-vortex method
A lumped-vortex method (Katz and Plotkin 2001) is introduced. 
This
method divides the wing into thin strip segments along the wingspan.

--- Page 202 ---
197
Then 7, is computed by the sum of the aerodynamic forces applied to all
the thin strip segments. The vortex method allocates a bound vortex for
each strip segment, determining its circulation so as to satisfy the Kutta
condition at trailing edge, and obtains aerodynamic forces using the two-
dimensional potential flow theorem.
3.1.2 Panel method
Wing-tip vortices greatly effect the aerodynamic characteristics because a
butterfly has flat wings of a small aspect ratio. In addition, the flapping
motion generates very strong wing-tip vortices. The wing-tip vortices may
combine to the free-vortices leaving from the trailing-edge, make complex
structures, and greatly influence the aerodynamic characteristics. There-
fore, this study models the aerodynamics of a flapping-of-wings butterfly
using a panel method (Katz and Plotkin 2001).
3.2 Effects of Flapping-of-Wings
There are the characteristic aerodynamics of beating and peeling phases of
wings (Wootton 1990). Experimental results will show the strong wing tip
vortex wakes that might have an effect on aerodynamics.
Therefore the following four effects in Fig. 2 are modeled and consid-
ered. Those are (a) downwash induced by wing tip vortices, (b) interaction
of right-and-left wings, (c) peel mechanism, and (d) damming effect.
Those effects are ever-changing because the relative position and orienta-
tion of the wings vary. The lumped-vortex method additionally considers
all those effects in simulations later. The panel method automatically con-
siders those effects other than the peel mechanism. Only the panel method
can consider wakes and free-vortices. See (Senda, et al. 2006) for the de-
tail of the modeling of the characteristic effects. Dickinson et al. (Dickin-
son et al 1999) analyzed the characteristic flapping-of-wings aerodynamics
of flies through experiments and numerical simulations.
(a) Downwash induced 
. 
(c) Peel 
(d) Damming
by wing tip vortex 
(b) Interaction of wings 
mechanism 
effect
Fig. 2. Aerodynamics of flapping-of-wings effects

--- Page 203 ---
198
4 Experimental System
Verification of the models and parameter setting require fundamental data
of flapping-of-wings motions and aerodynamic forces. For this purpose,
an experimental system with a low-speed wind tunnel is constructed and a
wind tunnel experiment is conducted using actual butterflies, Parantica sita
niphonica, which is similar to Danaus in the US. It is 0.24 g weight and its
half wing span is 50 mm long.
The simultaneous measurement system is constructed as illustrated in
Fig. 3, which measures butterfly's motion and the forces applied to the but-
terfly using an optical measurement system and a force measurement sys-
tem. The butterfly is gummed up on the back of the thorax to the tip of the
measure, i.e. the force/torque sensor. The measure with the butterfly is put
into the wind tunnel, the flapping-of-wings motion in the flow is captured
as a video image, and the state vector 8 is measured using the video im-
ages. Simultaneously, the forces applied to the butterfly, i.e. lift Z, drag D
and pitching moment M, are sensed by the measure. There is a smoke wire
for airflow visualization.
Wind tunnel
Mirror
Butterfly) UJ: 
a
Measure 
: 
High speed
(force/torque 
‘| 
video camera :
sensor) 
: 
a
+s 
°
L ik emsmosceesaeavnceneil 
[ 
oo} Strain meter
wo
Mirror ® 
= 
=) —i0
e=| 
Trigger Switch
High speed 
i
video camera KEES
PC
Fig. 3. Experimental setup
5 Experiments and Simulations
5.1 Experimental Observation of Motion and Force
An experiment for Parantica sita niphonica is conducted under a condition
that the mainstream is 1.64 m/s, the thoracic positions x = z = 0 m, and its
angle 0,= —1°. Fig. 4 (a) shows the generalized coordinates 6 of an ex-
perimental result measured by the above optical measurement system.

--- Page 204 ---
199
Figs. 4 (b)-(d) illustrate the measured forces, i.e. the lift L, the drag D, and
the pitching moment M. The butterfly repeats this cyclic motion in a pe-
riod of 0.136 seconds when it continues the periodic flapping motion.
Measured aerodynamic forces are also cyclic during the motion.
The flapping angle 7 is a cosine-like curve whose maximum and mini-
mum are 81° and —45°. The left and right wings overlaps perfectly at
the maximum position and almost overlaps at the minimum. The abdomen
angle @, is also a sinusoidal curve, but is out of phase to the flapping angle
£. When the butterfly varies amplitude, it changes the minimum of / and
does not change the maximum. The fixed butterfly swings the abdomen
unnaturally in a larger amplitude than butterflies flying freely. Even if 7
or 8, changes the amplitude depending on the flying condition and/or the
individual, they keep similar smooth cosine curves. Lead-lag angle 7 has
a vibration mode whose frequency is twice as large as £. Feathering angle
@ seems to be varied passively in small by the aerodynamic forces. Fry et
al. (Fry et al., 2003) similarly observes fly's flapping-of-wings motion.
0.02r 
— Experiment
Lamped-vortex
(w/o adjustment)
@—Lamped-vortex
0.01F 
(with adjustment)
i) 
> 
°~ 
Panel method
3 
=
z= 
= 
gp 
/
0.00% 
_./
-0.01 
1 
ia’ 
j
! 
0 
0.05 
0.10 
0.15
0.0 
0.05 
0.10 
0.15 (b) Lift 
Time [s]
* 
|
(a) Motion 
ali 
mi
x10
0.02r 
— Experiment 
1.0 
—— Experiment
Lamped-vortex 
Lamped-vortex
(w/o adjustment) 
(w/o adjustment)
e— 
Lamped-vortex 
_¢_ Lamped-vortex
_0 O1F 
(with adjustment) 
aN 
=0.5 
_ (with adjustment)
z 
*— 
Panel method 
jf 4 
3 
~*~ Panel method
0.00 
». 
~ 0.0
-0.01 
" 
4 
J 
0.1 
J
0 
0.05 
0.10 
0.15 
0 
0.05 
0.10 
0.15
Time [s] 
Time [s]
(c) Drag 
(d) Pitching moment
Fig. 4. Aerodynamic forces of lumped-vortex method and panel method
5.2 Verification of Mathematical Models
The @ obtained from the experiment and its derivatives 
8 and @ are sub-
stituted into the mathematical models of the butterfly that is fixed on the
back of thorax to the tip of the measure. 
Its aerodynamic forces are
illustrated in Figs. 4 (b)-(d). 
The aerodynamic models are the lumped-

--- Page 205 ---
200
illustrated in Figs. 4 (b)-(d). 
The aerodynamic models are the lumped-
vortex method and the panel method. Validity of the model can be evalu-
ated by comparing the simulation results with the experimental data.
For the lumped-vortex method, two results are represented. One is the
result using the parameters suitable for the past experiment, and the other
is the result after adjusting the parameter to be suitable for the present ex-
periment. The lumped-vortex method model with the characteristic flap-
ping effects has many adjustable parameters. Hence the model with pa-
rameters for the present experiment obtains better agreement with the
measured result in comparison with the one for the other experiment. On
the other hand, the model for the other experiment shows some error at the
top or the bottom of flapping angle. This means that the lumped-vortex
method model must use the parameters suitable for instantaneous condi-
tion, e.g. the angle of attack, the flow velocity to the wings, etc. 
The
lumped-vortex method model is not necessarily suitable for a free-flying
butterfly because the flow is unsteady and the condition always varies.
On the other hand, the panel method can calculate the aerodynamic
forces with the same degree of accuracy for any experiment. The panel
method model always agrees well with experimental results by considering
unsteady flow induced by wakes. The calculation accuracy of the devel-
oped code has been evaluated by using an oval wing in the steady flow that
has an analytical solution. The developed code respectively generates the
drag and the lift 17% and 5% smaller than the analytical solution. 
The
peel mechanism has not been considered in the panel method model yet.
Hence the difference from the experimental result is growing at the begin-
ning of downstroke where the peel mechanism becomes considerable.
In terms of drag, the panel method is in better agreement with the meas-
ured result. In terms of lift, the lumped-vortex method with the character-
istic flapping effects after the parameter adjustment is better.
5.3 Observation of Flow
Fig. 5 shows that the flow around the wings visualized by a smoke wire.
There are four images of the side view. They are images of every 4 frames
shot in 250 FPS, i.e. the interval of the images is 0.016 s. The peel mecha-
nism and the wing tip vortex wakes are observed during the flapping-of-
wings motion. It shows qualitative validity of the proposed model.
Fig. 6 illustrates the visualized flow of the experiment and the instanta-
neous stream lines of the numerical simulation, which are at scene 3 in Fig.
5 and on cross sections at x = -100 mm and y = -30 mm. A strong wing tip
vortex is observed in the visualized flow at (1) of Fig. 6, where flow veloc-
ity is large in the numerical simulation. At position (2), another vortex is
observed that was left from the wing tip at upstroke of a period before the

--- Page 206 ---
201
vortex (1). The simulation also captures the vortex at the position as same
as the visualized flow. The area (3) is a vortex that was left from the wing
tip at downstroke of a period before the vortex (1). Accordingly, the nu-
merical simulation analyses the flowfield corresponding to the experiment.
Fig. 5. Visualized flow by experiment (V = 1.0 m/s, @ = 10 deg, every 0.016 s)
Cross section 
Cross section
of back view _— of side view
YY
7 SLUM
Fig. 6. 
Comparison of flow fields of experimental visualization and numerical
simulation (x = -100 mm, y = -30 mm)

--- Page 207 ---
202
6 Stabilizing Effect of Wakes to Flapping Flight
6.1 Trajectory Search
The periodic flapping-of-wings flight is defined as “all other than x in state
vector 9, and 6, after a flapping period 7 agree with initial value 0, and
6. .” The trajectory of motion is searched to realize a periodic flapping
flight of each model. Fourier parameters describing joint trajectories for
cyclic motions and initial conditions are considered as learning parameters.
Both models can obtain almost periodic trajectories, though they do not
perfectly correspond to the definition of the periodic flight. The obtained
flights by the lumped-vortex method and the panel method are illustrated
in Figs. 7 (a) and 8 (a). The obtained flapping motions are similar to the
trajectory of the experiment in Fig. 4 (a). Because they are not perfectly
periodic, the flapping flights are leaving gradually from the initial flights
and destabilized. The lumped-vortex method and the panel method models
go down after two and eleven flapping-of-wings motions, respectively.
6.2 Stability Analysis of Models
Figs. 7 (b) and 8 (b) are the flights started from the initial states of Figs. 7
(a) and 8 (a) with same small perturbations. Degree of instability of the
panel method is smaller than that of the lumped-vortex method. 
It is
thought that the wake-induced flow of the panel method provides a type of
feedback stabilization effect. The free-vortices in wakes are then removed
from the panel method model, and Fig. 9 shows the simulations on the
same conditions as Fig. 8. The unstable level of Fig. 9 (b) is larger than
Fig. 8 (b). This result shows that the free-vortices in the wakes are essen-
tial for the stabilization of butterfly flights. In addition, the sampled-data
systems are derived from the original continuous periodic systems by ob-
serving their states every flapping cycle. The highest unstable poles of the
sampled-data systems are 61.8, 8.6, and 17.0 for the lumped-vortex
method, the panel method, and the panel method without free-vortices, re-
spectively. This result gives support to the simulations above.
T=0.18(sec) 
i
T=0.18(sec) 
’ 
<Tyes> 
\
~ 
~ 
p> 
s-eayTM~. 
/
Ee 
Bey es 
| 
- 
Pao,
E 
L \ff SL... 
E 
a EZ 
.
r[ 
AS 
] 
P23, 
a 
0; =27.5(deaq)
a 
0:=27.5(deg) 4 |_
Or =29.0(deg) 
0, =-59.9(deg)
167mm(0.93m/sec) 
; 
168mm(0.93m/sec)
(a) Almost periodic flight 
(b) Flight with initial perturbation
Fig. 7. Flapping flights of lumped-vortex method model

--- Page 208 ---
203
T=0.18 (sec)
7 yas
@: =32.0 (deg) 
Or =31.5 (deg)
l 
J
242mm (1.31m/sec)
(a) Almost periodic flight
0.1mm
T=0.18 (sec)
0: =38.1 (deg)
| 
J
242mm (1.32m/sec)
(b) Flight with initial perturbation
Fig. 8. Flapping flights of panel method model
T=0.18 (sec)
\oowe
@: =18.1 (deg) 
0: =18.9 (deg)
L 
J
322mm (1.75m/sec)
(a) Almost periodic flight
0.1mm
& 
T=0.18 (sec)
ty omnes ee
Ot =-97.4 (deg) 
@: =25.5 (deg)
L 
|
343mm (1.86m/sec)
(b) Flight with initial perturbation
Fig. 9. Flapping flights of panel method model without wakes
7 Concluding Remarks
In order to clarify the stabilization phenomenon in flapping-of-wings
flights, this study has performed the modeling of the butterfly, the experi-

--- Page 209 ---
204
ment for the quantitative data acquisition and qualitative observation, the
simulator formulation, and the comparison between actual and modeled
butterflies. The lumped-vortex method and the panel method have been
applied to make the simulator, where the methods calculate the aerody-
namic force. All models in the flapping-of-wings flight have been unsta-
ble, where the lumped-vortex method is highly unstable. 
The unstable
level of the panel method model has become small. It has been shown that
the wake-induced flow has a type of feedback stabilization effect.
Acknowledgement
The authors would like to express sincere thanks to Prof. M. Ishii and Dr.
N. Hirai of the Osaka Prefecture Univ. and Ishikawa Insect Museum for
their help making use of butterflies. The authors thank Mr. T. Shibahara
and Mr. N. Matsumura for their help of experimental work. A part of this
work was financially supported by a Grant-in-Aid for Advanced Scientific
Research from Kanazawa Univ. and a Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research
from Ministry of Education, Science, Culture, and Sports of Japan.
Reference
Azuma A (1992) The Biokinetics of Flying and Swimming. Springer-Verlarg
Senda K, Tanaka T, Sawamoto M (2003) Measurement and Numerical Simulation
of a Flapping Butterfly. In: Proc. of 2nd International Symposium on Adap-
tive Motion of Animals and Machines. March 4-8, Kyoto, WeP-II-1, pp 1-7
Senda K, Sawamoto M, Shibahara T, Tanaka T (2004) Study on Flapping-of-
Wings Flight of Butterfly with Experimental Measurement. Providence,
AJAA-2004-5368, pp 1-14
Brodsky A. K (1994) The Evolution of Insect Flight. Oxford University Press
Sunada K, et al. (1993) Performance of a Butterfly in Take-off Flight. J. of Ex-
perimental Biology. vol. 183, pp 249-277
Katz J, Plotkin A (2001) Low-Speed Aerodynamics. Cambridge University Press.
2nd ed.
Wootton R J (1990) The Mechanical Design of Insect Wings. Scientific American.
vol. 263, no. 5, pp. 114-120
Senda K, Sawamoto M, Kitamura M, Tanaka T (2006) Study on Flapping-of-
Wings Flight of Butterfly Considering Wakes. In: CD Proc. of ISABMEC,
S11, pp 1-8
Dickinson M H, Lehmann O F, Sane P S (1999) Wing Rotation and the Aerody-
namic Basis of Insect Flight.Science. vol. 284, pp 1954-1960
Fry N S, Sayaman R, Dickinson H M (2003) The Aerodynamics of Free-Flight
Maneuvers in Drosophila. Science. vol. 300, pp 495-498

--- Page 210 ---
Chapter 17
3-D Unsteady Computations of Flapping Flight in
Insects, Fish, and Unmanned Vehicles
William C. Sandberg and Ravi Ramamurti'
‘Laboratory for Computational Physics and Fluid Dynamics, Naval
Research Laboratory, Washington, DC
Summary. 
3-D unsteady computations have been carried out for a
swimming tuna with an oscillating caudal fin, the flapping flight of the
fruit fly and a pectoral fin swimmer, the bird wrasse, and a variety of
unmanned air vehicles. Such computations for creatures or vehicles with
moving and deforming surfaces can provide information on the dynamics
of force production that is quite useful for vehicle design. Novel
biomimetic vehicles have been designed and built and their performance is
described. As vehicle size decreases there has also been a need for
incorporation 
of 
novel 
materials, 
sensors, 
and 
control 
systems.
Computational challenges for coupling novel sensor designs, vehicle time-
varying force and moment computations, and self-consistent vehicle
trajectory computations are discussed.
Key words. 
Biomimetic pectoral fin, UUV, MAV, 3-D Unsteady CFD,
fish swimming, insect maneuvering, nanosensor, artificial muscle
1 Introduction
If we stand quietly and observe nature in action around us it is humbling to
realize how little we understand of the dynamics that are taking place. It is
easy to lose track of the time and become mesmerized by the apparent
effortlessness with which living creatures perform the most incredible
maneuvers or the apparent ease with which they counter large external,
205

--- Page 211 ---
206
rapidly varying 
forces. They appear to instantaneously react and
harmoniously accommodate to their changing environment. This is
particularly striking when creatures, in large numbers, move as one, such
as schools of reef fish which appear to move as a thin iridescent sheet,
executing a complex folding maneuver without ever colliding with each
other or striking the coral around them. If we seek to attain, in our
designed vehicles, that level of performance, then it is obvious we still
have much to learn about sensory mechanisms, dynamic force production,
novel biomimetic materials with passive control response and the
integration of all of these in a coherent manner in active control systems.
We describe below the results of computational investigations we have
carried out to gain insights into one aspect of this challenge, namely the
unsteady aerodynamic performance of flying insects and swimming fish,
and to incorporate that understanding into the design of unmanned
underwater and unmanned air vehicles.
2 Natural Swimmers and Fliers; 3-D Unsteady
Computational Investigations
2.1 Underwater Flight
We obviously must have in mind a performance objective for an
underwater vehicle in order to begin the design process, particularly if the
design process includes some aspects of biomimetics. In our case we
decided long ago that operational interest in the development of a flexible
vehicle was not as likely as it was for a rigid vehicle and therefore chose to
look at living swimmers that propelled themselves primarily with fins.
Hence we excluded undulatory swimmers from further consideration, even
though we had been looking at eel swimming dynamics (Ramamurti et al.
1996). We explicitly selected high force production control surfaces as the
ultimate design objective, as opposed to the vehicle hull itself. We chose to
investigate first, the tuna caudal fin as a candidate for superior thrust
production. We assumed that body deformation was absent forward of the
peduncle but was continuously varying beyond it. The first 3-D unsteady
computations of the flow past a continuously deforming geometry with an
oscillating control surface were then carried out (Ramamurti et al. 1996).
The geometry used for these computations and an instantaneous pressure
distribution is shown in Fig la.

--- Page 212 ---
207
(c)
Fig. 1. (a) Instantaneous pressure distribution on a swimming tuna. (b) Instantaneous velocities on
surface of swimming tuna. (c) Instantaneous pressure distributions on oscillating caudal fin
at selected times during oscillation cycle (From Ramamurti et al. 1996, with permission)
Instantaneous velocities are shown in Fig. 1b. It is clear that the flow
past the closed mouth has a significant effect all the way to the leading
edge of the caudal fin. We did not have, for this computation, the geometry
of the gill openings to permit investigation of flow into the mouth and out
of the gills. It would be interesting to carry this out since it may be that this
is a flow control means of reducing overall body drag which we did not
properly account for. The pressure distribution variation on both sides of
the caudal fin throughout the caudal fin stroke is given in Fig. 1c for a few
selected time instants during the computation. These computations were
carried out for tuna swimming speeds of one and ten body lengths per
second, as possible low cruise speed and high burst speed values. The
pressure time-histories were integrated to give body and caudal fin force
time-histories throughout the fin oscillation stroke period. One of the
significant findings from this investigation was that inertial forces were
critically important. 3-D quasi-unsteady computations, even with the
inclusion of the correct surface normal velocity imposed, drastically
underpredicted the time-varying force production magnitudes throughout
the stroke cycle.

--- Page 213 ---
208
At the time these computations were carried out in 1994 there did not
exist detailed caudal fin kinematics and the corresponding measured data
on pressure distribution, force production, acceleration, or velocity field
time histories about the body, fins, and in the wake of swimming tuna,
hence there could not be any validation made of our computational results.
We decided therefore to choose for our next computation a flapping fin
fish for which such data did exist. A candidate for which both fin
kinematic data and corresponding fish accelerations were available
(Walker and Westneat 1997) was the bird wrasse (Gomphosus varius)
which is shown in Figure 2a. The bird wrasse also had been reported to
have excellent low-speed maneuverability as well as good high speed
propulsion capabilities, vehicle characteristics we are very interested in
possessing. 3-D unsteady computations were carried out for the wrasse
with its’ pectoral fins executing the shape deformation time-history
obtained from the measured fin kinematics. An instantaneous pressure
distribution and the time history of lift and thrust production throughout
several stroke cycles is given in Figure 2b.
Fig. 2. (a) Swimming Bird Wrasse. (b) Pressure distribution and lift and thrust time histories. (From
Ramamurti and Sandberg 2002, with permission)

--- Page 214 ---
209
An important objective, as we studied the flow field evolution about the
flapping fin and 
attempted to gain insights into the force production
mechanisms underlying the impressive dynamic performance of living
creatures such as the bird wrasse, was understanding how variation of
major design parameters changed the force production dynamics. For
example, how important is it that the precise deformation time history, as
obtained from kinematics of live swimming wrasses, be maintained? We
needed to understand what performance would be sacrificed if we were to
significantly alter the ability of the fin to deform. This question was
answered computationally. We investigated the effect on the thrust and lift
production time history for the flapping fins as we went from a completely
rigid fin to the actual realistic deformation time history. It was clear from
Ramamurti and Sandberg (2004) that the penalty incurred by substantially
restricting fin deformation is high. Whether it is unacceptably high is a
design decision that is a function of the vehicle performance goals. We
have designed an unmanned underwater vehicle for the purpose of
demonstrating the propulsive performance of the NRL actively controlled
curvature fins. The details of the controlled curvature fin design, the fin
construction and testing, and the vehicle design are presented in this
volume (Palmissano et al 2007). The test vehicle with it two fins is shown
in Figure 3.
Fig. 3. Test vehicle for carrying a set of two NRL actively controlled curvature fins
2.2 Air Fliers
In addition to underwater vehicles we are also interested in the
development of small unmanned air vehicles, usually referred to as
MicroAirVehicles (MAV’s) or more recently, NanoAirVehicles (NAV’s).

--- Page 215 ---
210
As for the underwater vehicles we begin with an operational performance
objective to focus our efforts. We have been interested in developing small
vehicles with good low-speed maneuverability, obstacle avoidance, and
possibly a hovering capability. The extensive investigations of the
hawkmoth and the fruit fly are of great value in this regard. We chose to
pursue the fruit fly for computational investigations since both detailed
wing kinematics and corresponding force data were available. As for the
bird wrasse, 3-D unsteady computations were carried out for the hovering
Drosophila. The lift, thrust, and drag time histories and wing flow field
evolution were computed first about a single wing executing the specified
kinematics. The results of these computations were compared with
experimental data and also with computations which included the body of
the Drosophila since we often observe, as in the wrasse, extremely
complicated body-wing root interactions which need to be studied, in
addition to wing alone results. The pressure distribution on the body and
both wings at particular instants is shown in Figure 4.
Kinematics and force measurements also exist for the Drosophila
saccade, a 90 degree turning maneuver. The saccade maneuver was
therefore computed for the complete 2-wing and body, with each wing
kinematics being separately specified. Computational investigations can be
useful here in attempting to understand the nature of the force and moment
variations and the asymmetries in force and moment production needed by
the insect, or an MAV, to enable a turning maneuver.
o ee 
pp
v= %*
t=0.029s 
t=0.03 1s 
t= 
0.034s
Fig. 4. Instantaneous pressure distributions through the middle of the saccade maneuver (From
Ramamurti and Sandberg 2007, with permission)
The pressure distribution (Fig. 4) is integrated over the wing surfaces at
each time step, from the beginning of the maneuver, which is the hovering
phase, through the complete 90 degree turn, to obtain the lift and thrust
time-histories. The computed lift and thrust forces are compared with the
measured values in Fig. 5.

--- Page 216 ---
211
—— Present (CFD)
——Fryetal. (expt) 
q
Is 
j
75.000
0,000
1 
4 
1 
i 
4 
1 
1 
4 
1
0%) 900 
0.010 
0.020 
0.030 
0.040 
0.050 
0.060 
0.070 
0.080 
0.930 
0.100
‘time (sec.)
28.
Fig. 5. Comparison of experimental and computed hovering and maneuvering force time histories
(From Ramamurti and Sandberg 2007, with permission)
t= 0.02233s 
t= 0.02309s
Fig. 6. lsovorticity surfaces as seen from the back of the fruitfly (From Ramamurti and Sandberg 2007,
with permission)
The computed lift is very close to the measured lift, on both the upstroke
and the downstroke, as the saccade maneuver progresses. The thrust force
peaks to a value of nearly 25 N during the upstroke during the hover and
early stages of the saccade and decreases during the later part of the
maneuver. The computed thrust and drag force time history is nearly
identical to the measured thrust throughout the entire maneuver. The thrust
force peaks to a value of nearly 25 uN during the upstroke during the
hover and early stages of the saccade and decreases during the later part of

--- Page 217 ---
212
the maneuver. An example of the vorticity about the Drosophila as it
begins to execute the saccade is shown in Fig. 6. The complete description
of the Drosophila hovering and maneuvering computations are given in
Ramamurti and Sandberg (2007) and Ramamurti and Sandberg (2001),
respectively.
There has been an increased level of activity in recent years in the
development of small unmanned air vehicles. We have participated in the
computational assessment of vehicle performance for both fixed (Kellogg
et al. 2001) and flapping (Kellogg et al. 2003) wing concepts. The inittal
hybrid fixed/flapping wing vehicles had fixed lifting surfaces that provided
most of the lift necessary for sustained flight. Two of the original
configurations to use reversing camber wings, the reversing camber
Delphinopter, and the clapping reversing camber Pectenopter were
designed by Cylinder and are described in Kellogg et al. (2003). A more
recent configuration, also designed by Cylinder, has no fixed lifting
surfaces and uses two tandem sets of clapping pairs of reversing camber
wings for both thrust and lift. The 4 wings of this vehicle, called the BITE-
WING, are shown in Fig. 7a. Each flapping foil uses a reversing camber
mechanism. Early flight tests achieved stable, slow, and controllable
flights. Subsequent design modifications have led to further performance
improvements. We have carried out computational investigations to
achieve a better understanding 
of the action of the reversing camber foils,
the effects of the clapping interaction, and the interaction between the front
and rear pairs of wings. In particular we carried out numerous unsteady
simulations investigating the interactions between the wings of each pair as
well as the interactions between the two pairs. Some results from these
simulations are shown in Fig. 7b. The MAV vehicle design investigations
are described in Ramamurti et al (2005) and Shyy et al. (1997).

--- Page 218 ---
213
(a) 
(b)
Fig. 7. (a) Instantaneous pressure distribution on four flapping wings of BITE vehicle. (b)
Instantaneous vorticity field for 4 flapping wings of BITE vehicle
3 Novel Biomaterials, Biosensor Dynamics, and
Computational Challenges for Integration into Unmanned
Vehicles
As the need for smaller vehicles intensifies, we are driven to novel
lightweight materials, functionally tailored materials, an increasing number
of MEMS components, and now even sensors at the nanometer scale. This
is new design territory with new computational challenges. Our initial
prototype demonstration vehicle incorporates the NRL actively controlled
curvature fins which themselves are an integration of individually designed
compliant structural fin rays, individual linear actuation servos, and a
polymeric membrane skin to produce the desired surface curvature time-
histories resulting in the production of good propulsive force time-histories.
The linear actuation servos may subsequently be replaced with the NRL
Liquid Crystal Elastomer (LCE) artificial muscles, which have been shown
to replicate human muscle quite well (Naciri et al. 2003), are very
lightweight, and require small power. Coupled fluid-structure interaction
computations have been carried out for some materials (Shyy et al. 1997,
and Shyy and 
Smith 
1997), 
but such computations will become
increasingly difficult, if not intractable, as new functional materials are
created whose dynamic behavior is not completely understood over the
vehicle or device operating range. In addition to the advances in
biomimetic materials, the development in MEMS actuators is enabling
new strategies for local flow control (Ho 2003). Computing microfluidic
device performance and its effect on the vehicle aerodynamics due to
distributed local flow modification is another challenging area which will
become more important in the development of specialized vehicle control

--- Page 219 ---
214
systems. It is interesting to note that, even while artificial materials and
microsensors and actuators are beginning to be incorporated into new
vehicles, possibly ahead of the ability to thoroughly understand the
consequences on vehicle performance and controllability, even more
pressure is being exerted on vehicle designers by the rapid breakthroughs
occurring at the nanoscale. Nanosensors, possibly within a microfluidic
device 
environment, 
present 
daunting 
computational 
challenges
themselves. New atomic and molecular methods are needed to obtain a
clearer picture of the multi-scale dynamics of complex systems, such as the
core part of biosensors that combine solid surfaces, fluid and free/tethered
biomolecules in solvents. DNA-based biosensors that use short tethered
ssDNA chains of 20 ~30 bases to capture target ssDNA molecules are
becoming feasible.
Capture
(a) 
(c)
Fig. 8. (a) One free single strand (ss) target DNA and one capture ssDNA that is tethered onto a gold
surface. (b) MD simulation box 24nm high with 3D periodic boundary conditions. Two dsDNAs are
tethered to a gold surface. Water molecules (not drawn) fill the rest of the box, including 160 Na’ and
80 CI ions. (c) Shear-induced layering in water near the tethered DNA molecule. (From Wang and
Sandberg 2007, with permission)

--- Page 220 ---
215
Accordingly, as length and time scales have been brought to the
nano/atomic scale and to ns/ps, respectively, it becomes imperative to
develop new computational methods to deal with the details directly at the
atomic level. 
One must compute first at the quantum scale, then the
atomic scale, then the molecular scale and couple these to a Stokes flow
computation for the microfluidic device. Progress has been made in such
multiscale computations at the device scale (Wang and Sandberg 2006,
Wang et al. 2007), but it is only the beginning of what needs to be done.
For example, a typical element of a current biosensor is shown in Fig. 8. It
includes single or double-stranded DNA molecule of about 10 nm in
length attached to a gold nanosurface substrate. Short chain DNA
molecules and functionalized quantum dots are of great utility to the
experimental nanosensor community. The element shown here is part of a
microflow chamber through which biomolecules are flowing in an ionic
water solvent. Understanding the dynamics of the DNA molecules in the
shear flow experienced in the device is crucial for the design of responsive
biosensors. Embedding multiple such sensors, microfluidic local flow
controllers, artificial muscle actuators, and novel functional vehicle
structural materials into a vehicle itself represents a major design challenge.
Coupling the computations of sensors, actuators, and material dynamics
with unsteady aerodynamics and hydrodynamic for complete vehicle
performance is another challenge that will need to be accomplished first,
before the goal of a unified unsteady autonomous system flow prediction
capability, integrated with self-consistent vehicle trajectory prediction and
active control is reached. So, while substantial progress has been made on
several fronts, there is still much more to do, apparently, before our
vehicles will be capable of harmoniously swimming with the fishes and
flying with the winged creatures.
Acknowledgments
The support of and collaborations with J. Kellogg of NRL and D. Cylinder
of Princeton University on the MAV design investigations have been
critical to our unsteady aerodynamic computations. The insights and
experimental data provided to us by Profs. M. Dickinson of the California
Institute of Technology and M. Westneat of the Field Museum of Natural
History in Chicago enabled us to participate in the very exciting field of
insect and fish swimming dynamics. We also gratefully acknowledge the

--- Page 221 ---
216
continuous collaboration with 
Prof. R. 
Léhner of George Mason
University who has worked closely with us to develop new computational
technology. We also acknowledge the collaborative experimental efforts of
Drs. L. Whitman of the NRL Chemistry Division and Guan Wang of the
NRL LCPFD on the Nanosensor/Microfluidic multi-scale computational
technology developments.
References
Ho S (2003) Unsteady aerodynamics and adaptive flow control of micro air
vehicles. PhD dissertation, University of California, LA
Kellogg J, Bovais C, Cylinder D, Dahlburg J, Foch R, Platzer M, Ramamurti R,
Sandberg WC (2001) Non-conventional aerodynamics for Micro-UAV’s. 16"
Intnl UAV Systems Conference, Bristol, UK.
Kellogg J, Bovais C, Foch R, Cylinder D, Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC, Gardner
J, Srull D, Piper G, Vaiana P (2003) Development and testing of
unconventional micro air vehicle configurations. Aerospace Sciences Meeting,
AIAA 2003-6356, Reno, NV
Naciri J, Srinivisan A, Sandberg WC, Ramamurti R, Ratna B (2003) Nematic
liquid crystal elastomers as artificial muscle materials. Proc 13” International
Symposium on Unmanned Untethered Submersibles Technology, Durham,
NC
Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC (2001) Computation of the aerodynamic
characteristics of a micro air vehicle. In: Mueller TJ (Ed) Fixed and Flapping
Wing Aerodynamics for Micro Air Vehicle Applications. Progress in
Astronautics and Aeronautics 195:537-554
Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC (2002) Fluid dynamics of flapping aquatic flight in
the bird wrasse: three-dimensional unsteady computations with fin
deformation. J Exp Biol 205:2997-3008
Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC (2004) The influence of fin rigidity and gust on
force production in fishes and insects: a computational study. Aerospace
Sciences Meeting, AIAA 2004-404, Reno, NV
Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC (2007) A computational investigation of the 3-D
unsteady aerodynamics of Drosophila 
maneuvering and hovering. J Exp
Biol 210:865-880
Ramamurti R, Lohner R, Sandberg WC (1996) Computation of unsteady flow
past a tuna with caudal fin oscillation. In: Rahman M, Brebbia CA (Eds)
Advances in Fluid Mechanics Vol. 9. Computational Mechanics Publications
Southampton, UK, pp 169-178
Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC, Vaiana P, Kellogg J, Cylinder D (2005)
Computational fluid dynamics study of unconventional air vehicle
configurations. The Aero J of the Roy Aero Soc, 337-347
Shyy W, Smith RW (1997) A study of flexible airfoil aerodynamics with
application to micro aerial vehicles, AIAA-97-1933

--- Page 222 ---
217
Shyy W, Jenkins DA, Smith RW (1997) Study of adaptive shape airfoils at low
Reynolds numbers in oscillatory flows. AIAA Journal 35:1545-1548
Wang GM, Sandberg WC (2007) Non-equilibrium all-atom molecular dynamics
simulations of free and tethered DNA molecules in nano-channei shear flows.
Nanotechnology accepted
Wang GM, Sandberg WC, Kenny SD (2006) Density functional study of a
typical thiol tethered on a gold surface: rupture under normal or parallel
stretch. Nanotechnology 17:4819-4824
Walker JA, Westneat MA (1997) Labriform propulsion in fishes: kinematics of
flapping aquatic flight in the bird wrasse, Gomphosus varius. J Exp Biol
200:1549-1569

--- Page 223 ---
Part Il
Biomimetic Swimming or Flying Robots

--- Page 224 ---
Chapter 18
Design and Simulations of a Virtual Fishlike
Robot Actuated by a Muscle Model
Chunzhao Guo! and Zengfu Wang!
' Department of Automation, University of Science and Technology of
China, P.O. Box 4, Hefei 230027, China
Summary. Motivated by trying a new top-down research mode of the
study of fish-like robot related problems, we use a Chinese sturgeon
(Acipenser sinensis) as the base model and rebuild the structures and func-
tions of its swimming apparatus in a virtual fish-like robot, especially for
its shape, backbone, fins, and muscular system. The mechanical model of
fish’s superficial red muscle is established, which is used as the actuator of
the virtual fish-like robot. Besides, the virtual fish-like robot also has the
same physical and kinematic parameters as the specimen of Chinese stur-
geon used in the experiment, such as body length, weight, mass distribu-
tion, and undulation parameters etc. Thus, the virtual fish-like robot can
mimic the real fish structurally and functionally as realistically as possible,
which could be used to perform various virtual experiments and serve as a
platform to strengthen the intercrossing between theory and engineering
studies of fish-like robot related problems. Furthermore, kinematics simu-
lations of the virtual fish-like robot actuated by fish’s superficial red mus-
cle model are conducted, and the experimental results proved the veracity,
rationality, and availability of the design of the virtual fish-like robot.
Key words. Fish-like Robot, Biomimetics, Muscle Model, Kinematics
Simulation, Virtual Experiment
1 Introduction
Fish have astonishing swimming abilities after millions of years of evolu-
tion, which are very close to optimal with regard to their habitats of lives.
They can propel themselves by the coordinate motion of the body, fins,
and tail, achieving tremendous noiseless, effective, and maneuverable pro-
pulsion that has the advantages over the conventional rotary propeller used
in ship or underwater vehicles.
Inspired by biomimetics, the fish-like robot is one of the hotspots in the
field of bionics in recent years. Many researchers and engineers focus on
the design and realization of the mechanical structure of a fish-like robot
with the guidance of fish-like robot related theory studies contributed by
biologists and fluid mechanics experts, and achieved valuable results. In
1994, MIT developed an eight-link fish-like robot named RoboTuna and
221

--- Page 225 ---
222
subsequent RoboPike (Streitlien et al, 1996). The Northwestern University
(2004) applied Shape Memory Alloy (SMA) on the robotic lamprey. In Ja-
pan, Kato’s lab realized a few kinds of fish-like robots actuated by various
mechanical pectoral fins (Kato, 2000, 2006). Tokyo Institute of Technol-
ogy studied the three-dimensional movements of a dolphin robot (Naka-
shima et al, 2004, 2006). But the current fish-like robot systems cannot
give a good solution due to the restrictions on materials and techniques. On
the one hand, the current materials as well as the components used for
making fish-like robots cannot satisfy the needs of the theory studies. On
the other hand, the swimming mechanism of a fish, especially the kinemat-
ics and dynamics characteristics of it, is not well studied. What more im-
portant is that the feedback for the engineers on their demands and ideas
etc. cannot be effectively returned to the biologists and fluid mechanics
experts because of the huge differences in structures between the real fish
and their fish-like robots. These problems limited the progress of the fish-
like robot.
The motivation of this paper is to try a new top-down research mode of
the study of the fish-like robot related problems. As shown in Fig. 1.
We investigate systematically the structures and functions of the swim-
ming apparatus of fish, and a few conclusions are drawn to be the princi-
ples of the design of the virtual fish-like robot, especially for the muscular
system of fish. The internal reasons of high efficiency of fish swimming
are discussed and the mechanical model of fish’s superficial red muscle is
established, which is used to be the actuator of the virtual fish-like robot.
Besides, the physical and kinematic parameters of the specimen of Chinese
sturgeon are examined to help us
design the virtual fish-like robot. 
meen eh, 
rsocsr22777}
Synthesize the achievements ob- 
(Theory studies)
tained above; we can build a vir-
tual fish-like robot in ADAMS
by imitating the specimen as re-
alistically as possible structur- 
3
ally and functionally. In the ex- 
Ideal fish-like robot
periment, kinematics simulations 
(viewal)
of the virtual fish-like robot ac- 
Simplify design 
of the
tuated by fish’s superficial red 
virtual fish-like robot
muscle model 
are conducted.
The experimental results proved 
j
Structures,
functions, physical
& kinematic
parameters
eedback on the
demands &
ideas ete.
the 
veracity, rationality, 
and 
Objective
availability of the design of the 
Future muscle \ / Existing 
i
virtual fish-like robot. 
“like actuator /\__ actuator 
i
z 
i
Advanced fish 
Better fish 
}
-like robot 
slike robot [7
2 The Base Model of the 
Ou tial to 
Rou
Virtual Fish-like Robot 
down mode” 
[Elementary
Cu 
eede 
fish-like robot
We 
use 
a 
Chinese 
sturgeon Fig. 1. Research mode

--- Page 226 ---
223
(Acipenser sinensis) as the base model to rebuild the structures and func-
tions of its swimming apparatus in a virtual fish-like robot, especially for
its shape, backbone, fins, and muscular system. Besides, the virtual fish-
like robot also has the same physical and kinematic parameters as the
specimen of Chinese sturgeon, such as body length, weight, mass distribu-
tion, and undulation parameters etc., which are the necessary preconditions
to mimic a real fish as realistically as possible.
2.1 Structures and Functions of the Swimming Apparatus
Efficient swimming requires that (Videler, 1993):
1. 
most of the energy expended by the swimming muscles be turned into
appropriate motions of the propulsive surfaces;
2. 
the generation of propulsive forces from the fish to the water leaves as
little kinetic energy in the water as possible;
3. 
the transmission of forces from the water to the fish body be achieved
with a minimum of energy loss through elastic deformations;
4. 
the resistance of the moving body be as small as possible.
These four requirements are directly related to the structures and func-
tions of the swimming apparatus of fish, which mainly include the shape,
fins, backbone, and muscular system.
2.1.1 Shape
The shape of the swimming body should ideally be streamlined, offering
the lowest drag for the largest volume. Nevertheless, the shapes of fish
bodies vary considerably. Functional anatomists assume that organisms are
adequately designed to perform the functions needed to live. So the vari-
ous shapes of fish bodies are determined by the needs to survival in vari-
ous habitats of different fish. Spindled-shaped, so called streamlined bod-
ies usually belong to the fast swimmers, and the lateral compression of
many diamond-shaped fishes betrays extreme maneuverability.
2.1.2 Fins
Fins of fish are used for propulsion, breaking and steering. Their structure
should allow both a subtle interaction with the water and the exchange of
large forces. Fins have two major swimming related properties which are
the stiffness and shape. For slow-swimming fish in spatially complex envi-
ronment, steering capacity and maneuverability are more important proper-
ties than the ability to generate large propulsive forces. The fins of these
fish are flexible, highly adjustable, and with a small aspect ratio (AR);
while fast swimmers have stiff, stout fins with high ARs because there are
no obstacles in the open ocean where agility probably underlies high speed
as a survival factor.

--- Page 227 ---
224
2.1.3 Backbone
The backbone of fish must have two swimming related mechanical proper-
ties (Videler, 1993):
1) 
It should be flexible in lateral directions to allow undulatory swim-
ming motions.
2) 
It must be incompressible in the longitudinal direction to receive the
forward-directed propulsive force from the tail without large losses
through elastic deformation.
2.1.4 Muscular System
Increasing demand for higher efficiency to allow longer missions in
autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) cannot be satisfied by the current
actuator materials. An effective way of developing innovative technologi-
cal solutions is to search for alternative propulsive mechanisms in biologi-
cal systems, since evolutionary processes have already performed the de-
sign iterations and the cost-benefit analysis to optimize particular design
for specific functions (Shinjo & Swain, 2004). What’s the reason that fish
can swim with so high efficiency? Triantafyllou et al. (2000) proposed an
explanation, which is that fish are able to utilize the energy that exists in
the eddies of an oncoming flow and the oscillating motion of fish swim-
ming can induce flow relaminization which serves to reduce the body drag.
As a matter of fact, this is more like one part of the whole explanation
from the point of view of external effects or hydrodynamic perspective.
The internal effects, i.e. fish’s muscular system and the way it drives the
swimming motion, should be the other part of the whole explanation.
A. 
Multiple actuators
Swimming motion is generated by activating alternate sides of seg-
mented muscles in sequential manner. The myomeres and vertebras of the
backbone are of staggered arrangement. Thus, one myomere’s shortening
will affect two vertebras si-
multaneously with myosep-
tum as the connective tissue
that separates two adjacent
myomeres and transmits the
force to the vertebra.
A myomere is composed
of two types of muscles:
oxidative red muscles and
glycolitic white muscles, as
shown in Fig. 2. Red mus-
cles located along the mid
lateral line just under the
skin in a wedge formation
(superficial red muscle) are
primarily for low-intensity 
fF ig. 2. Different muscle fiber types of fish
and long-duration activities

--- Page 228 ---
225
such as steady swimming; thus, it is the primary focus of this study. The
remaining muscle volume is occupied by white muscles, which are used
for short bursts of high-intensity activities, such as fast starts and escape
maneuvers. In other words, a fish has multiple actuators to produce differ-
ent motions. This fact provides another reason why fish have so high effi-
ciency. They, like AUVs, have to be able to perform their motor activities
for a low energetic cost (food is the limitation for fish, battery life for
AUVs). Increase muscle speed results in increased energetic cost, a basic
tenet in the design of muscular system is that muscle speed is set to be suf-
ficiently fast to perform a given activity, but not faster than necessary, as
this would entail a large waste of energy. Thus, although the white muscle
could easily generate the mechanical power needed for slow steady swim-
ming, it would require far more energy to do so than the red muscle, and
hence the red muscle is used for slow swimming (Rome, 2005).
B. 
Elastic energy storage
Several studies have suggested that fish can conserve the energy dissi-
pated during deceleration of locomotors by elastic materials mainly con-
sisted of muscle and tendon, and recycle it in subsequent motion, as sup-
plemental energy, to reduce energy input (Shinjo & Swain, 2004). In fact,
muscles often perform cyclical activities so that the kinetics of muscle ac-
tivation and deactivation (relaxation) are equally important. When shorten-
ing occurs during relaxation, the elastic elements in muscle can release its
stored energy to recoil and reduce energy input from the source. If there
are no elastic elements in muscle, all this energy will be converted to heat
and dissipated in muscle and water, and cause energy waste.
C. 
Mechanical model of fish’s superficial red muscle
The classic Hill model of muscle (Hill, 1938) is used to analyze the me-
chanical properties of fish’s superficial red muscle. As shown in Fig. 3,
CE is the force generator, which composed of the actin-myosin cross-
bridges, SEE is the elastic element in series which is composed of 2 frac-
tions including active fraction (localized in actin-myosin cross-bridges)
and passive fraction (localized in tendons). PEE is the passive elastic ele-
ment, which is derived from muscle membranes.
CE 
5
CE 
SEE 
SEE
[=
Atti
in
a §
Lay
Pes
PEE
Fig. 3. Mechanical model of fish’s superficial red muscle
PEE
The mechanical properties of the elements can be described by the fol-
lowing equation:
ec VCE >0 
(1)
— 
ath. 
-1 
Ge
Ficg =a;(0; +v¥ce) +e; j 125 oe 2

--- Page 229 ---
226
Feer = ksre (ser — loser) 
(2)
Ferg =kpre (pee —lopee)+Y 
PEE 
(3)
where ec, corepresent eccentric and concentric shortening, respectively,
lser,/PEE and loser. /0PEE are the length and rest length of SEE and
PEE , respectively, vcg,vpgr ate the velocities of CE and PEE , respec-
tively, 79,.71,72,4;, b;.¢;,.kseg.kpeE.n are fitting constants, which can be
obtained by fitting the force-length, force-velocity curves in Rome (2005).
2.2 Physical Parameters of the Specimen Used in Experiment
A BCF (Body and/or Caudal Fin) swimmer—Chinese sturgeon is chosen
as the base model of the virtual fish-like robot because of its body rigidity
and cruising ability. The specimen of Chinese sturgeon is shown in Fig.
4(a), which is 0.48m long, 0.59kg weight. After the experiment, the speci-
men was deeply frozen and then cut into thin slices with a fine diamond
saw to obtain the mass distribution between the head and tail, as shown in
Fig. 4(b).
(a)
* mx) 
(b)
~¥
” 
—-
Fig. 4. (a) Lateral and top views
of the specimen of the Chinese 
?
sturgeon (b) Mass distribution 
Fig. 5. Experiment apparatus
2.3 Kinematic Parameters of the Specimen’s Steady Swimming
2.3.1 Experiment Setup
The experiment apparatus is shown in Fig. 5. The specimen of Chinese
sturgeon was place into a water tank with the measurement section of 2.1m
long, 1.75m wide and 0.6m deep. Video tapes of the steady swimming of
the specimen were obtained by using Nikon 7900 digital camera operating
at a rate of 30 frames/s. The stimulating signal generator was used to make
the specimen start swimming.

--- Page 230 ---
227
2.3.2 Kinematics Model of the Chinese Sturgeon’s Steady
Swimming
The steady swimming
of the Chinese sturgeon 
y 
° 
Caudal fin
. 
. 
itching axis
involves the undulation of 
Amplitude
the entire body, whose 
Pectoral fin—> 
YW env elope \
large amplitude undula- 
~
tion is mainly confined to 
_ 
_ —
the posterior half of the 
~ 9 
— 
x
body, and thrust is pro- 
oan 
;* ith
duced by a rather stiff 
Swimming direction 
Fish Skeleton 
~
caudal fin. The amplitude 
. 
. 
ON
of this undulation is close 
Fig. 6. Physical model of fish swimming
to zero in the anterior portion of the fish, increasing drastically in the im-
mediate vicinity of the trailing edge. Based on this information, in the
body-fixed coordinate shown in Fig. 6, the undulation of fish body can be
described by the equation as below, which is originally suggested by
Lighthill (1960),
y(x, ft) = (cx? +¢e7x)sin[2a(x/A-t/T)] L/2<x<L 
(4)
where y(x,¢) denotes the lateral displacement of the fish body, x denotes
the displacement along x-axis which ranges in the posterior half of the
body, cjis the quadratic wave amplitude envelope, c2 is the linear wave
amplitude envelope, 2 and T are body wave length and period, respec-
tively.
The caudal fin plays a very important role in fish swimming. The mo-
tion of the caudal fin is a combination of heave and pitch. And the pitching
movement leads the heaving motion by yw. The heaving motion equation
of the pitching axis is:
ypa(L,t)= (cL? +ce7L)sin[2az(L/A-—t/T)| 
(5)
And the pitching movement can be described by the equation:
O(f) = Omax sinf2a(x/A—t/T)+y] 
(6)
where @nax 1s the pitch angle amplitude.
Fig. 7. (a) Image sequence of the 
(b) skeleton sequence obtained by
specimen in steady swimming the analytical method

--- Page 231 ---
228
Given the mathematical model of the steady swimming, the dorsal view
image sequence of the swimming specimen of Chinese sturgeon at a speed
of 17.8cm/s (shown in Fig. 7(a)) was processed to obtain the kinematics
parameters automatically by the analytical method based on image se-
quences (Guo & Wang, 2005). First the silhouette of the bass body was ex-
tracted, and then an energy function was employed to obtain the skeleton
of the fish body (shown in Fig. 7(b)). In this way, we could get the precise
deformation data and the precise displacement data of the bass body in
swimming at each sampling moment.
By using a spline based curve fitting technique to fit the data above, we
could obtain c; = 0.002103 ,c> = 0.02379, 2=43.43cm, T=I1s, 
L=36.2cm,
VW =72°, Omax =30.5°.
3 Design and Simulations of the Virtual Fish-like Robot
3.1 Structure of the Virtual Fish-like Robot
The virtual fish-like robot
is built in ADAMS, as
shown in Fig. 8. Its back-
bone is made up of 40
links and joined together
by Revolute Joints, just
imitating 
the 
vertebral
column of real fish. Poly-
lines are formed to the
shape of myoseptum and
attached to each of the
an is. The muscle mode! Fig. 8. Structure of the virtual fish-like robot
fish-like robot is connected between two adjacent myosepta, which is
made up of a Translational Joint with a Spring in series and two parallel
viscoelastic elements. It also can move inside the fish body to serve as
white muscle to perform high-intensity motions after the parameters of
muscle model are properly revised. The geometrical dimensions and ar-
rangement of all the virtual fish-like robot components are determined by
examining the counterparts of the specimen of Chinese sturgeon.
3.2 Propulsive Model of the Virtual Fish-like Robot
Considered that the backbone of the virtual fish-like robot consists of N
links, let the length of each link, its myoseptum, and two lateral muscle
models be /;, a;, /;(t), and /;(¢) (i=1,2,..,N), respectively. The angle

--- Page 232 ---
229
between link /; and x axis is 6; (1), and angle between two adjacent links
is ¢;(t). To mimic a fish swimming defined by y(t) 
= f(x(4),4), the virtual
fish-like robot need to move all its joints to coincide to the body curve of
the real fish at every sampling moment, especially for the propulsive oscil-
latory part of the robot. Therefore, the following equation set must be sat-
isfied.
(7-10) x10)? + 7-1) - yD)? =?
yilt) = f(x (1,2)
1g 0;(t) = (vi-1(8) — vilt)) M18) - x1(9)
$j = 9141 - 8;
cai 
= CEL? (Ey a = GP by?
ly) 
= ye i+ cp - 2¢;- 1c cos[ 7 + 9 (t) - aretg (S)- arcig I
i-] 
i
(7)
lip(t) = [cP +e? — 2ci-1¢; cosl a ~ 9;(t) ~ aretg (I )- aretg Gl
i-] 
i
3.3 The Superficial Red Muscle Model Actuator and Its Control
Strategy
The structure of the superficial red muscle model is shown in Fig. 9.
Ly (t) 
—, 
Ot)
Eq.7 
>
Length Sensor ——-
Fig. 9. Structure of the superficial 
Fig. 10. The closed-loop control circuit
red muscle model 
of the muscle model actuator
The length and force relationship between each element can be de-
scribed as follows,
Ly (t)=Lpee (1) = Lee (t) + Lser )
Fy (t)= Ferg (t) + For (¢) 
(8)
Foe (t) = Fsee 
(@)
where Liy (t), Lpce (1), Lce (t), Lee (1), Fu (0). F pee (0), Foe (t), F see (t) are the
length and force of the corresponding element, respectively. The length of

--- Page 233 ---
230
the muscle model is chosen as the control variable. And the closed-loop
control (shown in Fig. 10) is adopted to decrease the steady-state response
time caused by the SEE and increase the robustness of the system.
3.4 Kinematics Simulations of the Virtual Fish-like Robot
Actuated by Fish’s Superficial Red Muscle Model
Kinematics simulations of the virtual fish-like robot actuated by fish’s su-
perficial red muscle model are conducted in ADAMS. Fig. 11 gives the
image sequence of the virtual fish-like robot in steady swimming, which
coincides exactly with the image sequence shown in Fig. 7. Fig. 12 is the
superimposed body bending sequence of the virtual fish-like robot, shown
every 0.1s. Fig. 13 gives the traces of the joints in the propulsive part of
the fish-like robot. Fig. 14 shows the lengths of the muscle model actuators
in 
the 
propul-
sive part. As we
can 
see, 
the
more posterior it
is, the more re-
sistance it will
endure, 
the
smaller 
change
the 
muscle
model 
is, 
the
bigger stress it
will 
generate.
Fig. 15 gives the
angles 
of 
the
joints 
in 
the
propulsive part,
which shows the
body should be
more 
flexible Fig. 11. Image sequence of the virtual fish-like robot in
near the caudal 
steady swimming
peduncle.
Fig. 12. Superimposed body bending sequence of the virtual fish-like robot

--- Page 234 ---
231
Fig. 15. Angles of the joints in the propulsive part, and the angular
velocity, angular acceleration of the last joint
4 Conclusions
In this paper, the design and kinematics simulations of a virtual fish-like
robot actuated by fish’s superficial red muscle model is presented. In order
to develop a fish-like robot that can mimic a real fish as realistically as
possible, we use a Chinese sturgeon as the base model and examine the

--- Page 235 ---
232
structures and functions of its swimming related apparatus to build a vir-
tual fish-like robot with the fish’s superficial red muscle model as the ac-
tuator in ADAMS, which also has the same physical and kinematic pa-
rameters as the specimen of Chinese sturgeon. The kinematics simulation
results proved the virtual fish-like robot can swim like a real fish. There-
fore, our trial top-down research mode is feasible.
This paper is the first step of the study of virtual fish-like robot. In fu-
ture, the dynamics analysis and simulations will be conducted so that the
virtual fish-like robot can serve as a platform to perform various virtual
experiments, such as quantitative evaluation of the structure design, mo-
tion control algorithm, and autonomous navigation method of a fish-like
robot etc., which are difficult and expensive in real world, even though we
have a real fish-like robot. The virtual fish-like robot built in this paper can
deal with the problems easily, efficiently and reliably with low cost.
References
Guo CZ, Wang ZF (2005) Analysis and modeling of fish swimming locomotion
mechanism based on image sequences, Proceedings of The Fifteen(2005) [n-
ternational Offshore and Polar Engineering Conference, 4: 565-570
Hill AV (1938) The heat of shortening and the dynamic constants of muscle, Proc.
R. Soc. Lond. B. Biol. Sci. 126: 136-195
Kato N (2000) Control performance in the horizontal plane of a fish robot with
mechanical pectoral fins, IEEE Journal of Oceanic Engineering, 25(1): 121-
129
Kato N, Ando Y, Shigetomi T, Katayama T (2006), Biology-inspired precision
maneuvering of underwater vehicles (part 4), International journal of offsho-
reand polar engineering, 16(3): 195-201
Lighthill, MJ (1960) Note on the Swimming of Slender Fish, J.Fluid Mech., 9:
305-317.
Nakashima M, Takahashi Y, Tsubaki T, Ono K (2004), Three-dimensional ma-
neuverability of the dolphin robot, Bio-mechanisms of swimming and flying,
Springer, 79-92
Nakashima M, Tsubaki T, Ono K (2006), Three-dimensional movement in water
of the dolphin robot — control between two positions by roll and pitch combi-
nation-, Journal of robotics and mechatronics, 18(3): 347-355
Rome LC (2005) Principles of actuation in the muscular system of fish, IEEE
Journal of oceanic engineering, 30(3): 630-646
Shinjo N, Swain GW (2004) Use of a shape memory alloy for the design of an os-
cillatory propulsion system, IEEE Journal of Oceanic Engineering, 29(3):
750-755
Streitlien K, Triantafyllou GS, Triantafyllou MS (1996) Efficient foil propulsion
through vortex control, AIAA Journal, 34: 2315-2319
Triantafyllou MS, Triantafyllou GS, and Yue DKP (2000) Hydrodynamics of fish-
like swimming, Annual Review of Fluid Mechanics, 32(1): 33-53.
Videler JJ (1993) Fish swimming, London, U.K. Chapman & Hail

--- Page 236 ---
Chapter 19
Development of Fish Robots Powered by Fuel
Cells : Improvement of Swimming Ability by a
Genetic Algorithm and Flow Analysis by
Computational Fluid Dynamics
Yogo Takada’ , Toshiaki Tamachi', Satoshi Taninaka’', Toshinaga Ishii!
Kazuaki Ebita’ and Tomoyuki Wakisaka'
' Department of Mechanical and Physical Engineering, Graduate School of
Engineering, Osaka City University, 3-3-138 Sugimoto, Sumiyoshi-ku,
Osaka 558-8585, Japan
Summary. A fish robot with image sensors is useful to seek disaster victims in
flood areas. In order to perform rescue operation for long time, the method of sup-
plying electric power is important. The purpose of this study is to develop fish ro-
bots powered by polymer electrolyte fuel cells (PEFCs).
For investigating the propulsion mechanism of a fish, the water flow around a
fish was analyzed with an original computational fluid dynamics (CFD) code
“GTT” developed by the authors. The flow velocity distributions around a real
swimming fish were measured by particle image velocimetry (PIV). From both re-
sults, it has been confirmed that the tail fin generates the reverse Karman vortex
street in the downstream region.
The authors created two fish robots powered by PEFCs. Type | fish robot wrig-
gled its body variously with six actuators and the operation sequence of the actua-
tors was determined for faster or more efficient swimming by means of a genetic
algorithm (GA). Type II fish robot with a tail fin oscillating simply was powered
by an original small-sized passive-type PEFC called “Power Tube”. The water
flow around this robot was numerically analyzed, and it has been confirmed that
the tail fin of the fish robot generates the reverse Karman vortex street to get pro-
pulsive force.
Key words. Fish Robot, Fuel Cell, GA, CFD, PIV
1 Introduction
It is useful to use a small fish robot with image sensors in that it can access
to any small area where a rescue team finds it difficult to access when a
flood disaster occurs due to downpour, earthquake, tidal wave, etc. A fish
robot as small as a killifish is well suited for such purpose because it
would otherwise take too much time to reach the disaster area if it is too
233

--- Page 237 ---
234
small. Furthermore, since it is difficult to supply energy to the fish robot in a
remote disaster area by wireless means, an energy source has to be provided
in the fish robot. In this study, it is attempted to use a polymer electrolyte
fuel cell (PEFC) as the long-lasting power source for a small fish robot.
In general, a fish swims in various ways depending on different circum-
stances. An example is Type I which refers to the way that a horse mack-
erel swims by wriggling all over the body, and another example is Type I
which refers to the way that a globefish swims by oscillating its tail fin
alone. This study aims to investigate the propulsion mechanism of fishes
by using the two types of fish robots. First of all, in order to conduct ex-
periments in various ways of swimming achievable by means of a fish ro-
bot of Type I, a fish robot (260 mm in length) with six actuators which can
wriggle its body variously is created for a trial purpose. Then, using a ge-
netic algorithm (GA)(Ishida et al. 1997), it is attempted to optimize the op-
eration sequence of the actuators by experiments for swimming with high
acceleration or for swimming with high propulsion efficiency, and the dif-
ference in swimming between the two optimized cases is investigated.
Furthermore, by using a small fish (a young carp: about 120 mm in
length), the water flow around the fish is investigated by flow velocity
measurement based on particle image velocimetry (PIV) and also by flow
analysis based on computational fluid dynamics (CFD) with the GTT
(Generalized Tank and Tube) code (Wakisaka et al. 1995), which had been
developed originally by the authors on the basis of the finite volume
method and the SIMPLEC algorithm.
In addition, a prototype small fish robot (110 mm in length) of Type II is
created. The fish robot moves only its tail fin from left to right by using an
ultra-small motor and a small-sized and light-weighted PEFC (called
“Power Tube”(Ishii et al. 2005)) developed originally by the authors. In
order to investigate the propulsion mechanism by the tail fin, CFD-based
analysis of the water flow around the fish robot is conducted.
2 Attainment of High-speed or High-efficiency Swimming
for the Type | Fish Robot by Means of GA
Figure 1 shows the structure of the Type I fish robot created in this study.
This fish robot is composed of a 260 mm long fish-shaped rubber sheet
(including a fish head, trunk and tail fin) to which six DC motors are fixed,
and is moved by six motor-string units. Once a string is wound on a motor
axle, the end of a stainless steel pipe is pulled toward the motor to bend the
rubber sheet in this direction. This fish robot can wriggle its body in vari-

--- Page 238 ---
235
ous ways by changing the operation sequence of the motors. However, it
was difficult to artificially determine the optimum operation sequence of
the six motor-string units mounted on the fish robot. Therefore, its opera-
tion sequence was determined using GA.
amerans
Stainless steel pipe 
Motor6 Meter 
Motor 4
ny
al
econ
j 
o Motor 
: ON
Natural rubber { 
Moter3. Motor2 ~ Motori
String —= 
—
wh 
. 
u 
48
so
g
-— 
g 
4 Motor : ON
Motor : 
O}
Ul 
i) oS
(Unit: mam)
Fig.1. Structure of a fish robot
A genetic algorithm (GA) is an optimization method that imitates the evolu-
tion and natural selection of organisms. In the GA, a quasi-optimal solution is
sought by repeating the hereditary operation in the evolutional process of an
organism.
One cycle of the fish robot motion was divided into 6 phases, and then 30
pieces of chromosomes in 18-bit length (3 phases x 6 motors) were gener-
ated per one generation. Calculation based on the GA was conducted for
up to several tens of generations. Chromosomes were prepared only for
lst, 2nd and 3rd phases, because the fish robot motion during the first half
period (1st-3rd phases) and that during the latter half period (4th-6th
phases) were symmetrical each other.
A fitness function f,,was defined as shown in Eq. (1) in consideration
of “speed” alone.
tiv = VI Vinax 
(1),
where V referred to the fish robot speed, and V,,,, referred to the maxi-
mum speed (V,,,, 
= 63 em/3.6 sec=17.5 cm/sec) at which the fish robot
reached the aquarium wall in 5 cycles (3.6 sec).
In addition, another fitness function f,, was defined as shown in Eq. (2)
in consideration of both “speed” and “electric power consumption”.
VIY,
= ma
fin PIPmax
(2),

--- Page 239 ---
236
where P referred to an average output of the power source, and P,,,, re-
ferred to the maximum output of the power source when all the motors
were turned on. The cross-over probability in chromosomes was set at 0.3,
and the mutation probability in chromosomes was set at 0.05 in the process
of selecting 30 pieces of surviving chromosomes from the population ac-
cording to their fitness function values based on the roulette rule (the better
the fitness, the bigger the chance of being selected).
The experimental system used to achieve optimization by means of GA
is outlined in Fig.2. The fish robot was placed in an aquarium sized 900
mm X 600 mm, and a power source, a control circuit and a computer for
GA computation were placed outside the aquarium. A hydrogen-fueled
passive-type PEFC available on the market (Daido Metal Co., Ltd.,
PFC1212, rated voltage: 12 V, rated output: 12 W (8 W in continuous op-
eration)) was used as the power source. Various operation schedules of the
six motors were generated by GA. Therefore, it was necessary to repeat
several hundred times the procedure that the fish robot started swimming
and stopped, and then returned to the initial position. Two motor-string
units with weights shown in the right part of the aquarium in Fig.2 were
used for taking the fish robot back to the initial position. The traveling dis-
tance of the fish robot was measured with an optical sensor installed on the
float of the fish robot for measuring the distance between the float and the
reflection plate installed slantingly. The signal concerning the fish robot
location was sent to the computer via an A/D board, and the average
swimming speed of the fish robot was obtained by measuring the traveling
distance in 3.6 seconds after start of swimming. The operation schedule of
the motors was generated by GA on the personal computer, and the driving
signal was sent to each motor driver via a digital I/O board.
When the actuator sequence of the fish robot was optimized for “speed”
alone by GA, the fish robot swam as shown in Fig.3, where the fish robot
photographs at every 0.13 sec were shown.
It had been considered that it would be best to use motors 1 and 2 in
phase 1, motors 2 and 3 in phase 2, and motors 3 and 4 in phase 3 until GA
was applied. The experimental result with this prescribed operation sched-
ule and the experimental results with the above-mentioned two schedules
obtained for the two optimization targets by means of GA were compared.
Evaluation results are shown in Fig.4, where ‘A’ refers to the prescribed
schedule, ‘B’ refers to the GA-generated schedule focusing on ‘speed’, and
‘C’ refers to the GA-generated schedule focusing on ‘propulsion effi-
ciency’. The results show that ‘B’ is far better in terms of speed, and ‘C’ is
even much better in terms of propulsion efficiency. In the case of the

--- Page 240 ---
237
schedule ‘B’, namely the speediest case, all motors are used actively in
turn. This means that the motion of a Type I fish which swims by deform-
ing all over the body like a snake is advantageous when speed or accelera-
tion is important. In the case of the schedule ‘C’, namely the most efficient
case, few motors are used for saving electric power consumption.
Light reflector
Pressure
regulator
J 
Tioat_ 
Optical range finder |
as 
F-)
/ 
Fish robot >) 
i 
[¥ 
Motor
J 
Water 
Gat 
PS 
Weight
\ 
[eve 
< 
aii 
G7 
String
i Z/PWML.,,
Personal 
£|CireunttTM* lay 
a
SPER 
‘Aquarium 
Electric power line
Fig.2. Experimental system for improving the performance of the fish
robot by means of GA
a 
t 
ft 
ms 
“A, 
Hl
123 4 
5 67 
8 
9 1011 
12 
13 
14 15 
16 17 1819 20 2 2 B
Time interval = 0.13 sec
Fig.3. Swimming of the fish robot optimized for “speed” alone by GA
Schedule of the speediest point
Phase 
Ti2/ 3141516
Motor!
Motor2
5 
10 
Motor3
Motors
Motors
Motor6
Au
ourr 
Lia
in >
io &
ffi
Schedule of the most efficient point
Phase 
[1]2/3/ 45/6
Motor!
Motor2
0 
0 
Motor3
A 
B 
Cc 
A 
B 
Cc 
A 
BC 
Motors
A: Prescribed schedule 
oo 
Satars
: Schedule made by GA for speedy swimming 
store
hedule made by GA for efficient swimming 
Fish 
|
ad
ie
Velocity 
cm/s
Velocity/Wattage 
em/s/W
robot
#0N
oorr | taut
Fig.4. Evaluation results

--- Page 241 ---
238
3 PIV Measurement and CFD Analysis
The water flow around a real swimming fish was measured by PIV and
analyzed two-dimensionally by CFD in order to make its swimming
mechanism clear and to create a fish robot with better propulsive perform-
ance for a trial purpose.
3.1 Measurement and analysis method
The measuring system of flow velocity by PIV is outlined in Fig.5. The
flow velocity distribution of water around a living fish (a young carp,
whose total length is about 12 cm), which was put in the circulating water
channel and swam freely, was measured. The area of PIV measurement
was 110mm < 76.2mm.
The area around the fish was lightened with the laser seat from the side of
the measurement chamber. An LD-excited YAG laser (KATOUKOUKEN
Co., Ltd., Green Laser Sheet 50m/G, beam power: 50 mW) and a semicon-
ductor laser (beam power: 16 mW,) were used as lighting sources. A high-
speed CCD camera (DITECT Co., Ltd., HAS-200R, photographing speed:
200 frame per second) was placed under the observation chamber. Succes-
sive images of tracer particles (Daicel-Degussa Ltd., Daiamid (Nylon 12
Powder), diameter: 40 microns) were taken by the camera, and flow velocity
distributions were obtained through correlation calculations using a software
“DIPP-FLOW” (DITECT Co., Ltd.,).
Semiconductor laser
Ciruculating water channel 
. 
. 
. 
3
Wire netting 
Fish 
Pump
Laser sheet
Water with tracer particles 
fy 
Be
' High speed CCD camera
YAG laser light
Fig.5. Experimental system for PIV measurement around a living fish
Furthermore, two-dimensional numerical analysis of the water flow
around the fish was conducted by means of the GTT code with the TVD
scheme for the convection term. The division number of computational
grid was 105x203, and the grid spacing in the vicinity of the fish was made
fine. To generate moving grids in accordance with the tail fin motion, plu-
ral grids were prepared based on the moving tail fin images taken by the
high-speed camera. Coordinates of grid points around the tail fin at each

--- Page 242 ---
239
computational time step were determined by interpolating the coordinates
of the two grids before and after the time step. As the upstream boundary
condition in computation, the velocity of water flow at the upstream end
was uniformly set at 320 mm/s (representative velocity U,, ).
a 
TB Se Br taper 
a
444 bee 
ae 
ee a Be
CULL GIPPIISIGT 
ON
at tht h thea,
SAAN 
ANAS 
LL rere
SR VNNANQNAY 
ES
Vie VANNAANS 
CS
ont 
eens 
ELLIE 
S hd
— 
=
ee 
a ee 
ee
c
Ss
(b) CFD calculation (left: velocities, right: vorticities)
Fig.6. 
Velocity vectors subtracted U,, from the instantaneous velocity
vectors obtained by PIV measurement and CFD calculation, and
vorticities calculated from the instantaneous velocity vectors
3.2 Measurement and calculation results
The relative velocity vectors obtained by subtracting the representative ve-
locity U,, from the instantaneous flow velocity vectors around the living
fish and the vorticities calculated from the instantaneous flow velocity vec-
tors are shown in Figs. 6(a) and (b), which were obtained by the measure-
ment based on PIV and the numerical analysis based on CFD, respectively.
The results of PIV measurement and CFD calculation show that the re-
verse Karman vortex street is ejected in the main flow direction in the
downstream region. In addition, the measurement and calculation results
have shown that the positions of the vortices behind the tail fin almost ac-

--- Page 243 ---
240
cord with each other. But the rotation speeds of the vortices differ from
each other. The reason for this may be that the CFD calculation was con-
ducted in two-dimension.
The operation of a tail fin which can generate the clear reverse Karman
vortex street has been explored on the basis of CFD analysis. As a result, it
has been found that the swimming number which is determined by the ve-
locity of a fish robot and the frequency of the tail fin oscillation, the flexibil-
ity of the tail fin, and the signal waveform to control the actuator motion of
the fish robot have to be set adequately for creating a fish robot with good
swimming ability.
4 Prototype of a Small Fish Robot
4.1 Small-sized and Light-weighted Passive-type Cylindrical
Polymer Electrolyte Fuel Cell "Power Tube"
The structure of the Power Tube (Ishii et al. 2005) developed originally by
the authors is shown in Fig.7, and its specifications are shown in Table 1.
The authors tried to use this Power Tube as a power source of a small fish
robot.
The diameter and length of the fuel cell are 13.5 mm and 30 mm, re-
spectively, and its total mass is 2 grams. The fuel cell is composed of an
ABS plastic tube (outer diameter: 8 mm, thickness: 1 mm, length: 30 mm,
having many small holes on its side wall) and two sets of a membrane
electrode assembly (MEA), diffusion layers and current collectors, which
are connected in series. Hydrogen was supplied as fuel into the tube, and
air was fed from the outside of the tube by natural convection. This fuel
cell is a passive type, namely it does not necessitate any auxiliary devices.
The MEAs were prepared using the authors’ original “Cast Method”
(Koike et al. 2003). For uniting two catalytic layers (they were formed in
carbon cloths) with an electrolyte membrane (ASAHI KASEI Co., Ltd.,
Aciplex-S S-1002, thickness: 56 microns) on its each surface, a hot press
machine (TESTER SANGYO, Co., Ltd., SA-401-M) was used. The hot
press condition was as follows; time: 10 minutes, temperature: 140 deg.C,
pressure: 5.1 MPa. As catalyst for anode, Pt-Ru/C (Electro Chem Co. Ltd.,
EC-20/10-Pt/Ru; Pt: 20 wt%, Ru: 10 wt%, Vulcan XC-72R Carbon) was
used, and that for cathode, Pt/C (Electro Chem Co. Ltd., EC-20-Pt; Pt: 20
wt%, Vulcan XC-72R Carbon) was used. As electrolyte solution, Aciplex-S
solution (ASAHI KASEI Co., Ltd., Aciplex-SS, SS-950) was used. The

--- Page 244 ---
241
platinum density in the catalytic layer was 1.0 mg/cm’. As diffusion layers,
Teflon-treated carbon cloths were used.
= Sate EaS 
cone
—4
Carbon cloth
(Diffusion layer)
ABS tube
MEA
==
SS 
Current collector
Table 1. Specifications of the Power Tube
tol 
H,-type 
,
Length 
L=30mm
os 
MEA (in series) 
8mm X 26mm, 
2 pes.
np 
agp 
a 
a, 
Current collector 
Ti plated with Au
Total current A 
Clamp 
O-ring (6 pes.)
* 
Max: 0.42 W 
Total mass 
2.0 ¢
Fuel 
Hydrogen
“Yo 
02 04 
06 
as 
1.0
Total current A
Fig.8. Performance of the H2-type Power Tube
The performance of the Power Tube is shown in Fig.8. It has been con-
firmed that the Power Tube created here has sufficient output power for a
small fish robot, since it can generate electric power up to 0.42W.
4.2 Creation of a small fish robot for a trial purpose
A small fish robot of Type II (total length: 110 mm) was created for a trial
purpose. Its photograph and structure are shown in Figs. 9 and 10, respec-
tively. As shown in these figures, this fish robot has an ultra-small motor
and its controller, a wireless signal receiver, and a power source which is
the H,—fueled Power Tube mentioned above. Since this fuel cell was de-
signed to feed air from outside, it was mounted on the upper part (above

--- Page 245 ---
242
the water surface) of the fish robot. Hydrogen was filled into a bag and
supplied to the fuel cell using a tube. Motor rotation was transformed into
oscillating motion of the tail fin (its period was 0.18 seconds) through re-
duction gears, a pair of wheels and links in the robot. Since the tail fin was
made of rubber, it was deformed as shown in the right part of Fig.10_when
it was oscillated in the water (motion of the tail fin is shown at the interval
of 0.01second). It was confirmed that the fish robot was advancing when it
was set to swim in the aquarium. In the near future, the fish robot is ex-
pected to gather image information from a remote area if 
a CCD camera
and an image data transmitter are mounted on it.
Power Tube 
H; 
bag
tiny 
mie
a
Body 
Tail fin
Fig.9. Photograph of a small fish robot
Antenna, 
Power Tube 
= Motor
im 
| 
< 
Wheel
$ 
v/ 
X<_Link
$ 
7,4 
we 
-
S 
x 
eZ
S 
& 
=
» 
jj 
her 
\
} Tail fin 
: 
Awz
Controller » 
rset 
: 
Motion of the tail fin
and receiver 
Gear
(overhead view)
a 
110 mm 
a
Fig.10. Configuration of the small fish robot and the motion of a tail fin
4.3 CFD analysis of the propulsion mechanism of the small
fish robot
With the aim to create a far more superior fish robot, the propulsion
mechanism of the prototype small fish robot shown in Fig.10 was investi-
gated. Two-dimensional CFD analysis was conducted by means of the
GTT code to examine the water flow around the fish robot (fixed in the
stream), especially in the rear part. The division number of computational

--- Page 246 ---
243
grid was 78x130, and the grid spacing in the vicinity of the fish robot was
made fine. The images of moving tail fin in the water (shown in the right
part of Fig.10) were taken by the high-speed CCD camera (200 frames per
second), and the computational grid around the tail fin at each computa-
tional time step was generated on the basis of the image data in the same
way as described in the section 3.1. The velocity of water flow at the up-
stream boundary was uniformly set at 70 mm/s (representative velocity
U,,), Which was nearly the same velocity at which the small fish robot
swam. Numerical analysis of water flow was carried out for the two types
of fish robots (Type A and Type B). Type A refers to the prototype small
fish robot, and Type B refers to a fish robot whose width is half of the
width of Type A, but its tail fin motion is the same as that of Type A.
Figure 11 shows the relative velocity vectors obtained by subtracting the
representative velocity U,, from the calculated instantaneous flow velocity
vectors for each case. From these figures, it has been found that both types
of fish robots generate similar reverse Karman vortex streets (the spacing
of the vortices is nearly the same for both types) in the downstream re-
gions. In the case of Type B, however, the flow velocity in the downstream
boundary is larger than that for Type A. From such calculated flow veloc-
ity distributions, the net momentum of water pushed out in the downstream
region was calculated to estimate the net propulsive force of each fish ro-
bot per unit thickness (1 cm).
20.25 m/s
Fig.11. 
Velocity vectors subtracted U,, from the instantaneous velocity
vectors obtained by CFD 
calculation

--- Page 247 ---
244
Figure 12 shows the calculated results for the period from 0.8 through 1.8
seconds after the tail fin begins to move. From the comparison of net pro-
pulsive force between Type A and Type B, it has been confirmed that the
slender fish robot of Type B attains higher propulsion performance be-
cause of its lower flow resistance.
The drag forces of Type A and Type B fish robots were estimated on the
assumption that their underwater shapes were elliptic cylinders (height = 1
cm) with aspect ratios of 1:1.5 (Type A) and 1:3 (Type B). The estimated
drag forces were 1.143 mN for Type A and 0.323 mN for Type B. The dif-
ference of these drag forces is nearly the same as that of the net propulsive
forces of Type A and Type B in Fig.12. This implies that the propulsive
forces by the tail fins of Type A and Type B fish robots are nearly the
same, and the difference of the drag forces depending on their shapes ap-
pears as the difference of the net propulsive forces.
3.2
ue
at
a&
£ 
1.6:
ey
SEos
© 
U.
ae 
Type A
0.0 
1 
i 
1 
.
0.8 
1. 
12 
14 
16 
18
Time s
Fig.12. Variations of net propulsive force calculated by CFD
5 Conclusions
(1) A flexible fish robot (length: 260 mm) equipped with six motor-string
actuators to mimic muscle motion was created. As its power source, a
polymer electrolyte fuel cell (PEFC) was used. The operation schedule of
six motors was optimized using a genetic algorithm (GA) toward two dif-
ferent targets. High-speed swimming was achieved by using the GA-
generated schedule focusing on speed, in which the fish robot deformed
the body like a snake. Furthermore, efficient swimming with less con-
sumption of electricity was achieved by using the GA-generated schedule
focusing on efficiency.

--- Page 248 ---
245
(2) As to a living fish, which swims freely in the water, the water flow
around the fish was investigated by means of particle image velocimetry
(PIV) and computational fluid dynamics (CFD). The results of the PIV
measurement and the two-dimensional numerical analysis by means of the
authors’ GTT code have shown that the reverse Karman vortex street is
generated in the downstream region of the tail fin. Therefore, in order to
create a fish robot with good swimming ability, it is important to control
the tail fin motion so that it can generate the clear reverse Karman vortex
street.
(3) A passive-type cylindrical polymer electrolyte fuel cell (called
‘Power Tube’) having very simple structure has been developed originally.
It has been confirmed that the Power Tube is suitable as a power source for
a small fish robot, since this fuel cell is small-sized (13.5 mm in diameter
and 30 mm in length) and light-weighted (2 grams), and generates high
electric power (maximum output power: 0.42 W) when hydrogen is used
as fuel.
(4) A prototype small fish robot of Type II with the hydrogen-fueled
Power Tube was created. It has been confirmed that this fish robot was ad-
vancing on the surface of water. Through the two-dimensional CFD analy-
sis of water flow around the fish robot, it has been found that the reverse
Karman vortex street is generated in the downstream region of the tail fin
and the fish robot acquires propulsive force by this vortex street which
pushes the water toward the downstream region.
References
Ishida, R., Murase, H. and Koyama, S., (1997), Fundamental Theories and Appli-
cation Programs for Genetic Algorithms by Personal Computer, Morikita Shuppan
Co., Ltd.
Wakisaka, T., Isshiki, Y., Shimamoto, Y. and Magarida, N., (1995), Numerical
Analysis of the Diffusion Process of Intake Mixture in Dual-Intake Valve Engines,
JSME International Journal, Series B, Vol.38, No.2, pp.213-221
Ishii, T., Taninaka, S., Takada, Y. and Wakisaka, T., (2005), Improvement of the
Performance of a Small-size and Light-weight Passive-type Polymer Electrolyte
Fuel Cell, Proc. ISME Symp., Vol. 3, No.05-1, pp.7-8
Lau, T., Kelso, R. and Hassan, E., (2004), Flow Visualisation of a Pitching and
Heaving Hydrofoil, Proc. 15th Australasian Fluid Mechanics Conference, 00203
Koike, G., Nishioka, K., Nagahara, K., Wakisaka, T., Takada, Y. and Takiyama,
T., (2003), Investigation on the Structure of a Membrane Electrode Assembly for
a Polymer Electrolyte Fuel Cell, Proc. JSME Symp., Vol.3, No.03-1, pp.295-296

--- Page 249 ---
Chapter20
Design and Control of Biomimetic Robot Fish FAC-I
Chao Zhou', Long Wang’, Zhigiang Cao', Shuo Wang', and Min Tan!
' Laboratory of Complex Systems and Intelligence Science, Institute of
Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080, China
Summary. A novel prototype of biomimetic robot fish named FAC-I with
3-D locomotion ability is developed in this paper. The locomotion of the
caudal fin conforms to the law of dolphin motion to drive the robot fish's
movement, and pectoral fins are applied to provide auxiliary locomotion
ability and each can flap separately and rotate freely, which compose the
original three-fin structure. The dynamic analysis of the caudal fin is dis-
cussed based on the 2-D waving plate theory. In order to complete de-
scending and ascending motions, a distinctive piston-based artificial swim
bladder is designed, which simulates the air bladder of fish. Several
biomimetic motions are designed, such as accelerating, decelerating, turn-
ing, diving. An information relay system on water is designed to connect
the robot fish under water and upper console. The information processing
framework of the robot fish and the relative information processing meth-
ods are discussed for the purpose of automatic control and environmental
monitoring. Some experiments show the performance of FAC-L.
Key words. Biomimetic robot fish; 3-D locomotion; Three-fin structure;
Artificial swim bladder; Information relay
1 Introduction
There are more and more productive underwater activity and research
work. Underwater tasks are changing, and many challenges are put for-
ward. It is paid more attentions on the Autonomous Underwater Vehicle
(AUV). In many cases, autonomous underwater vehicles are expected to
be small-size, efficient, maneuverable, and low noise. However, most of
AUVs are mainly driven by screw propeller, which was accompanied with
some limitations to efficiency or maneuverability of the systems. So ro-
boticists explore other approaches to solve these problems.
Fishes is widely distributed aquatic biology and can adjust itself to under-
water environment perfectly. In the locomotion, fishes and cetaceans make
effective use of the characteristics of the water, and exhibit the advantages
of the high efficiency, high maneuverability and low noise. Fishes with
left-right oscillating tails and cetaceans with up-down oscillating tails,
propel themselves by the combination of their body, fins and tails, which
247

--- Page 250 ---
248
has the advantages over conventional marine vehicles powered by rotary
propellers with the same power consumption.
Generally speaking, biomimetic robot fish is defined as a fish-like aquatic
vehicle based on the swimming skills and anatomic structure of a fish: the
undulatory/oscillatory body motions, the highly controllable fins and the
large aspect ratio lunate tail. Because of the similarity of fishes and cetace-
ans, in this paper, they are no longer discriminated. Investigation on
biomimetic robot fish systems has provided significant insights into both
theory and application of robotics in recent years, whose appealing nature
involves higher efficiency, more remarkable maneuverability and quieter
actuation[1}-[4]. These advantages are of great benefit to applications in
marine and military fields.
After the Gray’s paradox [5], which says that a fish does not seem to have
enough power to propel itself at the speed it does, many theories are pro-
posed to explore secrets of fish swimming mechanisms and summarize
driving modes of fish motions[7]-[12]. Based on the theories, many proto-
types of biomimetic robot fish have been developed.[1][4][13]-[19]. From
the view point of AUV, the 3-D locomotion is very important for mission
execution. There are several descending/ascending methods for biomi-
metic robot fish [6] [20]: Water tank method, Pectoral fins method, Chang-
ing body shape method, Changing the barycenter, and they are adopted on
many prototypes [6][17][20]-[25]. [26] deals with the guidance and control
of an underwater vehicle equipped with 2 pairs of oscillating fins in waves
and in water currents, which endows the robot with the ability of ascending
and descending. [27][28] give a prototype with three pectoral fins and a
caudle fin, which realize three dimensional maneuverability.
In this paper, we develop a robot fish named FAC-I (Fish-like Aquatic
Cruiser-I). An original three-fin structure (TFS) that is composed of a
simulating-dolphin tail, two pectoral fins with 3-DOF (Degrees of Free-
dom) is proposed. This structure is more similar to fishes and provides
more adaptability to motion control. An artificial swim bladder is designed
for descending and ascending motions, which is a piston mechanical struc-
ture to simulate fish air bladder function, by which, the robot fish moves
up and down vertically without the forward velocity. Compared with other
descending/ascending methods, it is the only one to directly imitate the
fish’s 3-D motion, which is formed in nature selection. Several kinds of
sensors are mounted and the related information processing methods are
given to endow FAC-I with certain autonomy. In order to deal with the
communication problem, the concept of information relay is introduced
into the robot fish system. The robot fish provides a new means for under-
water environment observation and it may recognize and localize goals ac-
tively.

--- Page 251 ---
249
2 The Design of FAC-I
Influenced by the characteristics of the fishes, we design a robot fish FAC-
I, which is a combination of the pectoral fins, caudal fin and the artificial
swim bladder. These three parts of FAC-I endow the robot fish more flexi-
ble locomotion ability.
2.1 Design of the Caudal Fin
The caudal fin is the main part for driving robot fish forward. By observ-
ing dolphin, the motion of caudal fin is swinging up and down. In order to
endow caudal fin of robot fish with ability of pitching and heaving, we de-
sign the caudal mechanism structure as shown in Fig. 1(a). The tail swings
up and down to propel the robot fish body forward by a DC motor and
linkage mechanism. The supporting frames fixed on the tail link also swing
up and down with the caudal fin. Although it distorts when swinging, the
rubber tube keeps the streamline shape because of the supporting frames.
The crescent-shaped caudal fin is shown in Fig. 1(b).
The supporting frame
Dee 
poe 
: 
The caudal fin
The closing plate
‘ 
The rubber tube
The DC motor
(a) 
(b)
Fig. 1. The caudal fin structure
According to the 2D waving plate theory [29], the lift force acting on the
caudal fin can be given below:
R=aplv: sin(@) 
(1)
where, v.. is the flow velocity related to the caudal fin chord at the point c
which is quarter of chord. @ is the attack angle of caudal fin.
t 
\ 
I 
I;
a> — 
i essa,"
[SY 
v 
ic 
‘eae
Fig. 2. The gearing part of the caudal structure

--- Page 252 ---
250
Fig. 2 is the enlarged local of caudal structure, and the relationship be-
tween the posture of caudal fin and rotating angle of motors is listed in fol-
lows:
l,=acosy + bsina
c=asiny+bcosa 
(2)
L=rcosgt+icosy+L, +1,
rsing =/,sinw
where /), 1>, 13, a, b, c are parameters of structure. Then (3) is gotten:
L-l= reosp+ Vi sin? 
g +a’ -(c—beosa)’ +bsina 
(3)
And the required output power of the motor is:
P(t)h=TOG() 
(4)
where T denote the output torque of the motor, P is the power of the motor.
According to (1) (3) (4), we can calculate the relationship between the
forward velocity, the lift force and the motor’s angle velocity, torque and
power by numerical method. The result is useful for the selection of the
motor and the mechanical design. We give a design of the executing com-
ponents according to the mission for the robot fish. Then the torque and
power are calculated based on the formula. Parameters of the structure are
modified, and motors are chosen according to the results.
2.2 Design of Pectoral Fins
Fishes swim and keep balance by using fins. The balance is mainly con-
trolled by pectoral fins and they may also control the posture. The locomo-
tion of the fish pectoral fins can be simplified to two kinds of fundamental
motions: rotation and flap.
; 
Degrees of 
U 
The linear
Pectoral 
freedom 
step motor
, fin 
“Ns
+f 
to
;
Cardan 
L 
re VY The piston
shaft ‘77>" 
| 
: 
:
sha 
_ 
| 
ra 
Seal ring
“Motor 3 
\d 
|
Motor l 
y 
4
iA 
Motor 2x
Fig. 3. The pectoral fins structure 
Fig. 4. The artificial swim bladder
FAC-I is equipped with a pair of pectoral fins, each of which can flap sepa-
rately and rotate freely, as shown in Fig. 3. In order to simplify the me-
chanical structure and control, the rotation motions of two pectoral fins

--- Page 253 ---
251
may be uniform, thus there are three degrees of freedom in total and each
is corresponding to a step motor. The motor | and motor 3 rotate forward
and backward in a certain angle range to make the left/right pectoral fin
flap continuously. When the motor 2 rotates, both pectoral fins roll syn-
chronously to change the attack angle. This structure satisfies the maneu-
verability of the locomotion.
2.3. Design of the Artificial Swim Bladder
As shown in Fig. 4, a piston driven by a linear step motor simulates fish air
bladder function, which is installed at the center of buoyancy. Motions of
the piston adjust the volume of the robot fish to change the buoyancy of
the robot fish, and the robot fish may descend and ascend. The closing
plate, as shown in Fig. 1, hermetically separates the soft caudal tube from
the abdominal cavity where the piston is installed and thus the volume
change of robot fish caused by moving the piston is regardless of the cau-
dal tube.
Compared with Water tank method, the motion of piston system changes
the volume instead of the gravitation, which is much simpler in structure.
The control of the piston position is much easier than the water level con-
trol in the tank by a pump, and it avoids the affection of water undulation
in the tank when the robot fish moves. Compared with other methods ex-
cept Water tank method, this method may make the robot fish descend and
ascend vertically, and even suspend. Energy is saved because it do not de-
pend on the velocity.
2.4. Foundational Bio-motions
According to behaviors of fishes and the function of the robot fish, a li-
brary of foundational motions of the robot fish is designed based on the
mechanical structure and the control system. The robot fish adjusts its
poses in water by controlling the oscillatory frequency, the attack angle of
the fins and the position of the piston. The motions are implemented and
integrated in a library.
Go ahead: Including the acceleration, deceleration and uniform motions,
which is realized by sending different signals to the motor of the robot fish
tail.
Crash stop: pectoral fins steady vertically while the tail stops oscillating.
The velocity of the robot fish reduces quickly because of the resistance of
water.

--- Page 254 ---
252
Turn: The robot fish turns right/left by flapping the left/right pectoral fin.
The flapping frequency is decided by the turning radius required: the
higher the frequency ts, the smaller the turning radius is.
Dive: There are two approaches to dive for FAC-I, the pectoral fins and the
artificial swim bladder.
Dive through pectoral fins: It is achieved by adjusting the rotation angle of
pectoral fins. When pectoral fins rotate clockwise to a specific angle, the
robot fish descends because of the water pressure. Similarly, the fish as-
cends when pectoral fins rotate counterclockwise to the ascend-angle.
Dive through the artificial swim bladder: This method makes use of the
difference between the buoyancy and gravity. The piston adjusts the vol-
ume of the robot fish to perform descending and ascending. In practice, a
suspending position has to be determined firstly and it is a little different in
experiments. When the piston stretches out the suspending position, both
the robot fish volume and its buoyancy increase, which make the robot fish
ascend. When the robot fish wants to descend, it shrinks the piston to re-
duce the volume until the buoyancy is smaller than the gravity.
These two dive methods may perform descending and ascending inde-
pendently, however, each has its advantages and disadvantages. They may
be cooperated to perform the dive and the posture control much better. By
adjusting the attack angle of the pectoral fins and the oscillating frequency
of the tail, the robot fish may change the pitching, and descend or ascend
in movement. Changing the position of the piston can make the robot fish
move up and down vertically and the diving depth of the robot fish may be
controlled accurately without forward movement.
3. The Control and Information Process System of FAC-I
The control system of FAC-I includes MCU circuit, wireless module, the
power supply, the control and drive modules of motors. The MCU circuit
sends a PWM signal to the tail motor to control its motions, and sends four
clock signals to control pectoral fins step motors and the piston linear step
motor to realize the motions of pectoral fins and the piston. The MCU cir-
cuit communicates with outside by an information relay system. In order to
gather environmental information, several kinds of sensors (infrared,
video, and pressure sensors) are equipped with the robot fish for the pur-
pose of autonomic control and environmental monitoring. Infrared sensors
are used to detect obstacles with the rapid response, by which the biomi-
metic robot fish may swim safely. The water depth information can be
gained by the pressure sensor mounted on the side of the body and thus the
robot fish can control its diving depth. The camera is mounted on the fish

--- Page 255 ---
253
head to monitor the front region. The video information is sent to the upper
console by an information relay system on water for displaying and proc-
essing.
3.1 The Framework for Information Relay and Process
It is necessary to develop a communication system between the robot fish
and the outside for practical applications. There are several approaches on
the information transmission of the robot fish. One is to utilize radio
equipments. Because of the severe attenuation of the electromagnetic wave
in water, the equipments can only work on water surface, which forces the
robot fish swim on water or ascend to water surface to exchange the data.
To a great extent, this method destroys the continuity of underwater work
and the realtime of communication, which limit the application. Another
method is to connect the robot fish and an upper console by a cable or op-
tical fiber cable directly, which can assure the transfer speed and accuracy.
However, this method will limit the range of locomotion to the neighbor-
hood of the upper console. In order to resolve these problems, the concept
of information relay, which combines the wired and wireless communica-
tion, is introduced into FAC-I. The information relay system of the robot
fish adopts a buoyage on water to connect to the robot fish by the cable
and optic cable, and communicates with the upper console on shore by
wireless signal, which may satisfy the requirement of extended locomo-
tion. The buoyage is small and light, which is suitable to be dragged by the
robot fish. As shown in Fig. 5, the video signal and digital signal are
transmitted separately by the optical fiber cable and the cable.
Wireless | | Optical 
Upper console
ae
module 
II receiver
Wireless
module I 
Water surface
= Se
Cable 
Optical fiber cable
Battery
Camera
Optical
transmitter 
Ty
Robot fish
Fig. 5. The information relay system
3.2 The Information Processing
In order to avoid the possible dangers in real-time, a method to avoid ob-
stacles based on infrared sensors is presented as follows. As described
above, there are three infrared sensors mounted on right, middle, left sides

--- Page 256 ---
254
of the fish head, and the outputs are Rip, Fir and Lip, respectively. The ro-
bot fish may make decisions based on the inputs of sensors. The logic-rule
set is given in (5), which depicts the relationships between motions of ro-
bot fish and states of sensors.
[UNIFORM 
Fr bigRi
DECE 
FR + Flip + FyLigRie
LEFTew 
=!) Fir LirRig + Fir LiaR t+ Fre birB 
(5)
RIGHTiuaw 
F Lip Rr + Fal Ria t Fp LigRiz
LINEAR 
Fa Laka tke laRr
where UNIFORM, DECE, LEFT rurn, RIGH turn, LINEAR are the Boo-
lean variables of keeping changeless, decelerating, turning left, turning
right, swimming forward , respectively.
After the robot fish determines the proper motion based on the logic rules
in (5), it chooses the combination of the foundational motions described in
section III to drive its mechanical structure.
The vision system of the robot fish FAC-I is composed of a CCD camera,
signal conversion, the transmission subsystem, a video capture card and
the upper console. The information on the environment and goal are ex-
tracted for the high-level decision. An image segmentation algorithm
based on edge detection is presented to extract the under water goal infor-
mation. In this paper, the color space HLS is selected during segmentation.
Considering that the changing environmental conditions affect the appear-
ance of an image, and ripples in surface of water disturbed by free-
swimming fish reflect light, an adaptive threshold has to be adopted.
Firstly, a region of the image is selected as the initial recognition
characteristic. Then the change of the environment lighting is calculated
and it is added to the threshold. Thereby a closed-loop threshold is created
in each segmentation cycle. After basic segmentation and filtering, a basis
morphological algorithm, closing operation is used on the binary image to
smooth the boundary and fill small hole. The result of vision processing
and the target identification reflect the information of environment and
goals.
The robot fish may execute the instructions from the operator based on the
results of image processing and other related information. Also, the op-
erator may only give the task, and the information fusion is conducted by
the upper console, which is the decision-maker and sends control instruc-
tions to robot fish. In some emergent situations, the robot fish makes reac-
tive responses to outside based on the infrared sensors.

--- Page 257 ---
255
4. Experiments
Fig. 6 gives a functional prototype of the biomimetic robot fish FAC-I with
a tail for propulsion, 3-DOF pectoral fins, the artificial swim bladder me-
chanical structure and the information relay system. Some parameters of
the prototype are shown in Table 1.
~ 
7 ~ Pectoral fin
The information relay _ ti
(buoyage)
Fig. 6. The functional prototype of FAC-I
Table 1. Parameters of the prototype
Items 
Parameters
Size 
87om*29cm*25cem
Weight 
9 4kg
Pectoral fins flap frequency 
2.4Hz
Caudal fin flap frequency(underwater) 2.8Hz
Duration of swimming 
1.5~2h
Velocity (max) 
0.25m/s
Angular velocity of turn 
~0.175rad/s
Acceleration of descending 
~0.004m/s”
Some experiments are conducted to testify the locomotion ability of FAC-I
and we choose several representative experiments in this paper. The first
one is done in an experiment pool of 1.8m*1.0m*0.6m safely and the re-
sults are shown in Fig. 7. Fig. 7 (a)-(c) describe the process of turn by the
right pectoral fin and Fig. 7 (d)-(f) give the sequence of the robot fish
swimming forward by the tail oscillating. The average angular velocity of
turn is about 0.1rad/s, which is lower than the maximum because it starts at
velocity of zero.
(a) t=0s

--- Page 258 ---
256
(d) t=9.2s 
(e) t=12.4s 
(f) t=14.4s
Fig. 7 The sequence of the robot fish swimming
Fig. 8(a)-(c) describes the swimming sequence of robot fish FAC-I drag-
ging the buoyage system in a swimming pool. The velocity is 0.25m/s. The
process of the robot fish descending in the experiment pool by the adjust-
ment of the piston is seen in Fig. 9(a)-(c), which is proved to be valid. The
average velocity of descending is 1.86cm/s.
YJ
“ (a) t=0s 
(b) t=2.9s 
(c) t=8.2s
Fig. 8. The sequence of swimming with the relay
= 
7 
L 
= 
ion on 1
(a) t=Os 
(b) t=10.4s 
(c) = 
11.1s
Fig. 9. The descending image sequence of the robot fish
Another experiment is related to goal recognition based on the video signal
sent to the upper console. Fig. 10 gives several selected images from the
camera of the robot fish, where the robot fish swims in the blue experiment
pool with the red goal A, and C describes the given color for recognition.
The corresponding recognition results are seen in B. Fig.10 (a), (b) and (c)
is a sequence of the video pictures when robot fish swims forward.
4 
re 4 
I A - Ty ; 
:
Fig. 10. The selected images and the corresponding recognition results

--- Page 259 ---
257
5 Conclusions
In this paper, a novel biomimetic robot fish with a tail for propulsion, 3-
DOF pectoral fins, and a piston system as an artificial swim bladder is
constructed based on the propulsion and maneuvering mechanisms for
dolphin swimming. An information relay system on water is designed for
information transmitting. Several foundational motions are given based on
the mechanical structure and the control system to realize the underwater
motion. The sensors information processing of the fish are then studied.
Experiments have demonstrated the good performance of the novel me-
chanical structure and control system of the biomimetic rebot fish.
Acknowledgement
This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Founda-
tion of China (No. 60635010, No.60605026, No.50475179), 863 Project
(No.2006AA11Z225, No.2006AA04Z258), and CASIA Innovation Fund
for Young Scientists.
References
[1] M. S. Triantafyllou and G. S. Triantafyllou, “An efficient swimming ma-
chine,” Sci. Amer., vol. 272, no. 3, pp. 64-70, Mar. 1995.
[2] M. Sfakiotakis, D. M. Lane, and J. B. C. Davies, “Review of fish swimming
modes for aquatic locomotion,” IEEE J. Oceanic Eng., vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 237—
252, Apr. 1999.
[3] Y. Terada and 1. Yamamoto, “An animatronic system including lifelike robotic
fish,” in Proc. of the IEEE, vol. 92, no. 11, Nov. 2004, pp. 1814-1820.
[4] Barrett D S, Triantafyllou M S, Yue D K P, et al., “Drag reduction in fish-like
locomotion,” J. Fluid Mech. 1999, vol.392, 183-212
[5] J.Gray, “Studies in Animal Locomotion, V1. The Propulsive Powers of the
Dolphin,” J. Exp. Bi ol., No. 13, 192-199 (1936)
[6] http:/Avww.nmri.go.jp/eng/khirata/fish/index_e.html
{7} Lighthill 
M J., “Note on the swimming of slender fish,” J. Fluid Mech. 1960,
vol.9: 305-317
{8} Lighthill M J., “Aquatic animal propulsion of high hydromechanical effi-
ciency,” J. Fluid Mech. 1970, vol.44, 265-301
[9] Lighthill M J., “Large-amplitude elongated-body theory of fish locomotion,”
Proc. R. Soc. Lond, Ser. B. 1971, vol.179, 125-138
[10] Wu T Y., “Swimming of a waving plate,” J. Fluid Mech. 1961, vol.10, 321-
344
[11] Triantafyllou M S, Barrett D S, Yue D K P., “A new paradigm of propulsion
and maneuvering for marine vehicles,” Trans. Soc. Naval Architects Marine
Eng. 1996, vol.104, 81-100
[12] B. Tong, “Propulsive mechanism of fish’s undulatory motion,” Mechanics In
Engineering. 22: 69-74 . 2000.

--- Page 260 ---
258
[13] 
Biomimetic 
Underwater 
Robot 
Program. 
Available 
at:
http:/Avww.neurotechnology.neu.edu/
[14] N. Kato, M. Furushima, “Pectoral fin model for maneuver of underwater ve-
hicles,” Proc. 1996 IEEE AUV Symp. New York: IEEE Press, 1996, 49-56
[15] N. Kato, “Control Performance in the Horizontal Plane of a Fish Robot with
Mechanical Pectoral Fins,” TEEE J. Ocean. Eng., vol. 25, pp.121-129, Jan.
2000
[16] T. Fukuda, A. Kawamoto, F. Arai, H. Matsuura, “Mechnism and swimming
experiment of micro mobile robot in water,” Proceedings, IEEE Workshop on
Micro Electro Mechanical Systems. January 1994, pp273-278
[17] J. Liu, H. Hu, “Building a 3D simulator for autonomous navigation of robotic
fishes,” IROS 2004. 613 - 618
[18] J. Liang, T. Wang, H. Wei, W. Tao, “Researchful development of under wa-
ter robofish Il- development of a small experimental robofish,” Robot, 2002,
24(3): 234-238
[19] J. Yu, S. Wang, M. Tan, “A Simplified Propulsive Model of Biomimetic Ro-
bot Fish and Its Realization,” Robotica 2005, volume 23, 101-107
[20] C. Zhou, Z. Cao, S. Wang and M. Tan, “The Posture Control and 3-D Loco-
motion Implementation of Biomimetic Robot Fish,” IEEE IROS, 5406-5411,
2006
[21] http://birg.epfl.ch/pageS7462.html
[22] Yamamoto I. and Terada Y., “Research on flexible oscillating fin propulsion
system and robotic fish,” Proc. IFAC CAKS, U.K. (2001)
[23] Shen Zhizhong, Wang Shuo, Cao Zhiqiang, Tan Min, Wang Long, “An Im-
age Segmentation Algorithm Based on Edge Detection and Its Application to
Robotfish,” Robot, 2006
[24] M. Sfakiotakis, D. M. Lane, and J. B. C. Davies, “Review of fish swimming
modes for aquatic locomotion,” IEEE J. Oceanic Eng., vol. 24, pp. 237-252,
Apr. 1999.
{25] Z. Zhang, S. Wang, M Tan, “3-D Locomotion control for a biomimetic robot
fish,” Journal of Control Theory and Applications, 2004, 2(2): 169-174.
[26] Kato,N., Liu, H. and Morikawa, H., Biology-inspired Precision Maneuvering
of Underwater Vehicles—Part 3, Int. J. of Offshore and Polar Engineering
CISOPE), 2005, Vol. 15, No. 2, pp. 81-87
[27] M. Nakashima, Y. Takahashi, T. Tsubaki and K. Ono, “Three-Dimensional
Maneuverability of the Dolphin Robot”, in “Bio-mechanisms of Swimming
and Flying” Springer, 2004, pp79-92.
{28] M. Nakashima, T. Tsubaki, and K. Ono, “Three-dimensional Movement in
Water of the Dolphin Robot — Control Between Two Positions by Roll and
Pitch Combination ”, Journal of Robotics and Mechatronics, Vol.18, No.3,
2006, pp.347-355.
[29] J. Yu, “The kinetic analysis of biomimetic robot fish,’"Doctor Paper of Uni-
versity of Science and technology of China, 2004.
[30] H. Sang, S. Wang, M. Tan, Z. Zhang, “Research on Patrol Algorithm of Mul-
tiple Behavior-Based Robot Fishes,” IJOPE, 2005, 15(1):1-6
[31] C. Zhou, Z. Cao, L. Wang, S. Wang and M. Tan, “Study on design and con-
trol of a 3-D locomotion biomimetic robot fish,” ISABMEC, Japan, 2006.

--- Page 261 ---
Chapter 21
Thrust Force Characteristics of Propulsion
Mechanism in Fluid Using Fin with Dynamic
Variable-Effective-Length Spring
Shunichi Kobayashi, Masataka Nakabayashi, Reiji Kobayashi, Ji Jie,
and Hirohisa Morikawa
Department of Functional Machinery and Mechanics, Shinshu University,
3-15-1 Tokida, Ueda 386-8567, Japan
Summary. We aimed to develop a propulsion mechanism using a variable-
bending-stiffness fin of which stiffness can be changed dynamically. As the
one such variable-stiffness fin, we have developed a fin with a variable-
effective-length spring. The apparent bending stiffness of the fin can be
changed dynamically. We have measured the thrust force of the propulsion
mechanism using a fin with a variable-effective-length spring and visual-
ized flow around the fin. In this paper, we describe the structure of the
propulsion mechanism in fluid using a fin with a variable-effective-length
spring, and the thrust force characteristics with changing effective length
of the spring dynamically. Furthermore, we discuss the relationship be-
tween thrust force and flow around the fin.
Key words. 
Propulsion Mechanism, 
Fin, Variable-Effective-Length
Spring, Flow Visualization, PIV
1 Introduction
The conventional screw propeller is the general propulsion system for
ships or underwater vehicles. As an alternative propulsion mechanism for
higher propulsion efficiency and better safety than the screw propeller,
propulsion by oscillating an elastic fin resembling a caudal fin or pectoral
fin of fish has been proposed, and a basic study on the bioinspired oscillat-
ing fin and its development as a propulsion method for ships or underwater
vehicles/robots have been carried out (Morikawa et al.1980, Nakashima et
al. 2000, Watanabe et al. 2002 ). The optimum elasticity ofa fin is not con-
stant and changes according to the movement task and environment, such
as swimming speed and oscillating frequency (Nakashima et al. 2000,
Watanabe et al. 2002 ). However, it is very difficult to exchange fins of
259

--- Page 262 ---
260
different bending stiffnesses while moving. On the other hand, fish are
able to move their fins dynamically and can change their resistance to ex-
ternal force. Fish may be able to change the apparent stiffness of their fins
by muscle contraction, though further investigations of fin stiffness for fish
are needed.
We aimed to develop a propulsion mechanism using a variable-bending-
stiffness fin of which stiffness can be changed dynamically (Kobayashi et
al. 2003). As the one such variable-stiffness fin, we have developed a fin
with a variable-effective-length spring. The apparent bending stiffness of
the fin can be changed dynamically. We have measured the thrust force of
the propulsion mechanism using a fin with a variable-effective-length
spring and visualized flow around the fin. In this paper, we describe the
structure of the propulsion mechanism in fluid using a fin with a variable-
effective-length spring, and the thrust force characteristics with changing
effective length of the spring dynamically. Furthermore, we discuss the re-
lationship between thrust force and flow around the fin.
2 Structure of Propulsion Mechanism in Fluid
Figure | shows the principle of the variable-effective-length spring. Effec-
tive length of the spring H is changed by varying the length of rigid plates
supporting the plate spring made of polyethylene terephthalate, (PET). The
relationship between the displacement of the plate spring and effective
length H (constant lateral load: 1.96 N) is shown in Fig. 2. Apparent stiff-
ness changes with H. Figure 3 shows the fin with a variable-effective-
length spring. The fin system consists of an aluminum box (length: 130
mm, height: 60 mm, width: 25 mm), a fin made of a chloride plate (length:
120 mm, height: 60 mm, thickness: 3 mm), and a variable-effective-length
spring (length Z: 20 mm, height: 43 mm, thickness: 0.5 mm). 
A DC motor,
waterproof bearing, slipping screw, resin nut and rigid plate are housed in
the aluminum box. A transparent chloride plate cover is attached on the
open side of the aluminum box to seal it. Figure 4 shows the experimental
system. The fin is moved in a stationary water tank (length: 2020 mm,
width: 730 mm, depth: 250 mm). The fin base is positioned at the middle
of the length and width of the water tank, and the upper surface of the fin
is 90mm below the water level. The propulsion mechanism is supported by
a linear guide and is able to move. For the measurement of x-directional
thrust force while the mechanism is stationary on the linear guide, the
mechanism is connected to a load cell. The pitching movement of the fin is
driven by the geared DC servomotor. We can change the maximum pitch-

--- Page 263 ---
261
ing angle 6, and movement cycle 7. The signal from the load cell is am-
plified by a strain amplifier and recorded on a personal computer in syn-
chrony with the control of the DC servomotor. Figure 5 shows the devices
for flow visualization. We used two projectors for the light sheet and a
high speed video camera to take images of flow. Particles of diaion (250
uum) were used for the tracer. For the analysis of flow field, we used the
particle image velocimetry (PIV) system.
Rigid plate
H
/ 
'|D
/ 
|
PET plate 
Q
(a) Apparent stiffness 
(b) Apparent stiffness 
(c) Apparent stiffness
: Maximum (H=0) 
: Middle (0<H<L) 
: Minimum ( H=L )
Q: Load H: Effective-length L: Maximum effective-length
D: Displacement
Fig. 1. Principle of effective length spring
25
20 
| 
?
15 
EA
10 
ad
3 
| 
a
Displacement 
D [mm]
0 
*
0 
5 
10 
15 
20 
25
H [mm]
Fig. 2. Relationship between displacement of plate spring D and effective
length of spring H. Total length of spring L = 25 mm. Thickness of spring ¢
= 0.5 mm. Constant lateral load OQ = 1.96N.

--- Page 264 ---
262
Movement Direction 2) 
[sy
Fig. 3.
tines bush 
Load cell
aa 
eee
Ea 
=
— 
|
Propulsion
mechanism
Watertank 
F
texas 
7 
met 
— 
Servo amplifier
=p 
=
Pulse board 7
AD/DA board
Fig. 4. Experimental system

--- Page 265 ---
263
LCD 
Projector
Sheet light_
~ 
0 
ey, 
_Fin
% 
ee Br SS 
Water tank
Sheet light
{ \ 
High speed
\ video camera _ 
LEJ
LCD 
Projector ,
Fig. 5. Devices for flow visualization
3 Results and Discussion
3.1 Static Condition of Effective Spring Length
3.1.1 Relationship between Effective Spring Length and Thrust Force
Figure 6 shows the variation of x-directional thrust force in one movement
cycle. The effective length of spring H was fixed during motion (static
condition of 7). With H = 0 as the maximum apparent stiffness condition,
the difference between maximum thrust force Fyn 
2, and minimum thrust
force F'nin, and the magnitude of the negative thrust force are greater than
those when H =L. Average thrust forces when H = L (Fyavg =0.334 N) is
greater than that when H = 0 (Fyavg = 0.332 N). These results indicate that
an elastic fin is favorable realizing the effective thrust force. We have
changed H closely and found the optimum effective length to generate the
greater average thrust force H,,,. In this condition (7 = 3 s, Gnax = 30 deg),
Hop Was 9L/20 (Fravg = 0.416 N). The phases of Fyna: and Fymin When H = L
and H,,, = 9L/20 are delayed compared with those when H = 0. This is
because the phase of the fin shape to generate a great magnitude of thrust
force is delayed by the elastic bending.

--- Page 266 ---
264
_
mn
—H=0(0mm)
--H=L(20mm)
‘|
Z.
=
= 
0.5
z
= 
Jt
a 
MN 
Y
=~ 
0.0 
fh
VV Onax = 30deg
T= 3s
-0.5 
'
0 
90 
180 
270 
360
Phase [deg]
Fig. 6. Variation of x-directional thrust force in one movement cycle
(T=3 s, Ona = 30 deg).
3.1.2 Fin Shape and Flow Around the Fin
Figures 7 and 8 show the change in fin shape and flow around the fin on
the flat plane at the center of height of the fin in one movement cycle. The
effective spring length H is fixed during motion (Static condition of H),.
Bending of fin increases with increasing H, that is, with a decrease in ap-
parent stiffness.
H=0 
(no effective length of spring, maximum apparent stiffness)
When H = 0 (no effective length of spring), bending of fin is small but not
0. This small bending is due to small gap between the top of the rigid plate
and the chloride plate (fin) when H = 0. Phase = 60 deg (phase for the
maximum thrust force): Area of high flow velocity on the left side of fin is
greater than that on the right side. Thus the pressure on left side of fin
would be smaller than that on the right side of fin, consequently, this pres-
sure difference would produce the positive x-directional (downward direc-
tion in Fig.4) thrust force. Phase = 90 deg: Flow velocity on the left side
of fin is greater, but since the fin position is almost parallel to x-axis, the
positive thrust force component would be reduced.

--- Page 267 ---
Phase = 0 deg 
Phase = 30 deg
Phase = 60 deg 
Phase = 90 deg
Phase = 120 deg 
Phase = 150 deg
Phase = 180 deg
Fig.7. Change of fin shape and flow in one movement cycle
(H = 0 (Omm) static condition, 
T= 3 s, Ona = 30 deg).
265

--- Page 268 ---
266
Phase = 0 deg 
Phase = 30 deg
Phase = 60 deg 
Phase = 90 deg
Phase = 120 deg 
Phase = 150 deg
Phase = 180 deg
Fig. 8. Change of fin shape and flow in one movement cycle
(H= L (20 mm) static condition, T= 3 s, Qnax = 30 deg).

--- Page 269 ---
267
Phase = 150 deg (phase for the minimum thrust force): Area of high flow
velocity on the left side of fin is still greater, but the negative x-directional
thrust force component would be greater from the fin position. Phase = 180
deg: Flow velocity is reduced. The negative x-directional thrust force com-
ponent would be reduced from the fin position.
H=L (minimum apparent stiffness)
Phase = 60 deg: The flow velocity on the left side of fin is smaller than
that at the same phase when H = 0. Since the fin is bent, the positive thrust
force on the fin is smaller than that when H = 0. Phase = 90 deg (phase for
the maximum thrust force): Positive x-directional thrust force is the maxi-
mum by the bending position of fin. But the area of high flow velocity on
the left side of the fin is smaller than that at the same phase when H=0.
Phase = 150 deg: the positive x-directional thrust force would be reduced
by the fin position. Phase = 180 deg (phase for the minimum thrust force):
the negative thrust force component would be generated by the fin posi-
tion, but since the flow is smaller than that when H = 0, magnitude of
negative x-directional thrust force is smaller than that when H = 0.
3.2 Dynamic Condition of Effective Spring Length
3.2.1 Thrust Force
After the experiments under the static condition of effective length of the
spring H, we controlled the dynamic change of effective length during mo-
tion. Figure 9 shows the change of H and x-directional thrust force in one
movement cycle. H is controlled to obtain greater thrust force. For the
phases of 0 - 90 deg and 180 - 270 deg, H was set at 0 mm because the
thrust forces in these phases are greater when H = 0 mm (static condition
of H, shown in Fig. 6). For the phases of 90-180 deg and 270-360 deg, H
was set at 20 mm because the thrust forces in these phases are greater
when H = 20 mm (static condition of H, shown in Fig. 6). In Fig. 9, x-
directional thrust forces during the phases of 0-90 deg and 180-270 deg are
the closer to those when H = 0 mm shown in Fig. 6, and x-directional
thrust forces during the phases of 90 - 180 deg and 270 - 360 deg are
closer to those when H = 20 mm shown in Fig. 6. Thus the average thrust
force with the dynamic change of H (Fyag = 0.424 N) is greater than that
under the static condition of Hop; (Frave = 0.416 N).

--- Page 270 ---
268
1.5 
30
> 10 
> 
pecan 
ie 
20
D 
! 
\ 
'
5 
h 
1 
\ 
—
= 
rN 
Mi 
=
So 
- 
!
= O05 
- 
| 
1 
I 
- 10 a
z 
! 
! 
=
S 
l 
; 
=
a 
I 
A Wr 
f 
;
= 
0.0 
ie 
af 
oO
— Dynamic control»
Hopt = 9L/20
7 
--H
-0.5 
——— 
— 10
0 
90 
180 
270 
360
Phase [deg]
Fig. 9. 
Change of effective length of spring H and variation of x-
directional thrust force in one movement cycle (T = 3 s, Qnax = 30 deg) .
Thrust force for H,,,= 9L/20 (Static condition) is added for comparison.
3.2.2 Fin Shape and Flow Around the Fin
Figure 10 shows the change in fin shape and flow around the fin in one
movement cycle. The effective spring length H is changed during motion
(dynamic condition of H). Bending of fin and flow fields around the fin
during phases 0 - 90 deg and 90 - 180 deg are closer to those during phases
0 - 90 deg when H = 0 and phases 90 - 180 deg when H = L, respectively
(shown in Figs. 7 and 8). This result is consistent with that of thrust force
in one movement cycle described section 3.2.1.
4 Conclusions
This study was conducted to develop a propulsion mechanism in fluid, us-
ing a fin with a dynamic variable-effective-length spring. We discussed
the influence of thrust force on the effective length of the spring under
static and dynamic conditions. The following results were obtained.
(1) Bending of the fin increases with an increase in effective length of the
spring H.
(2) Flow velocity difference between the both sides of fin is influenced on
the thrust force.

--- Page 271 ---
Phase = 0 deg 
Phase = 30 deg
Phase = 60 deg 
Phase = 90 deg
Phase = 120 deg 
Phase = 150 deg
Phase = 180 deg
Fig. 10. Change of fin shape and flow in one movement cycle
(H:dynamic conditon (0-20 mm), T= 3 s, Ana: = 30 deg).
269

--- Page 272 ---
270
(3) Bending of the fin reduces negative thrust force.
(4) Average thrust force Fy. with the dynamic change of H is greater than
that under the static condition of Ho,,;= 9L/20 when @nax is 30 deg (T =
3s).
Since this is the first study on using a variable-effective-length spring for
propulsion in fluid, further research is still needed. The issues to be tackled
in the future include the following:
(1) Three dimensional flow visualization
(2) Addition of heaving movement mechanism,
(3) Discussion of efficiency,
(4) Optimum control of the effective length for achieving greater and sta-
ble thrust force,
(5) Measurement in a water tunnel.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by a research grant from the Fundamental Re-
search Developing Association for Shipbuilding and Offshore, and by a
Grant-in-Aids for Scientific Research (16560224-00) by the Japan Society
for the Promotion of Science.
References
Morikawa H, Isshiki N (1980) The Study on a Propulsion System by Fin
Stroke. Bulletin of M.E.S.J., 8 (1)
Nakashima H, Tokuo K, Ono K (2000) Experimental Study of a Two-Joint
Dolphinlike Propulsion Mechanism (2nd Report, Experiment of Self-
Propelled Large Robot). Transactions of the Japan Society of Me-
chanical Engineers, Series C, 66 (643) : 695-702
Watanabe M, Muramatsu K Kobayashi N (2002) Propulsion Performance
of an Aquatic Mobile Robot Using Traveling-Wave Motion of a Flexi-
ble Fin (Relationship between Propulsion Efficiency and Flow Pattern.
Transactions of the Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers, Series C,
68 (665): 188-196
Kobayashi S$, Mashima T, Morikawa H (2003) Thrust Force Characteris-
tics of Propulsion Mechanism in Fluid Using Variable-Bending-
Stiffness Fin Modeled on Ciliary Movement. JSME International Jour-
nal, Series C, 46 (4): 1340-1345

--- Page 273 ---
Chapter 22
Elastic Pectoral Fin Actuators for Biomimetic Underwater
Vehicles
Naomi Kato!
Yoshito Ando’, Artyoshi Tomokazu', Hiroyoshi Suzuki",
Koichi Suzumori*, Takefumi Kanda’, Satoshi Endo?
‘Department of Naval Architecture and Ocean Engineering, Graduate School of Engineer-
ing, Osaka University, 2-1 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, LTD.
3Department of Mechanical and System Engineering, Graduate School of Natural Science
and Technology, Okayama University, 1-1 Naka 3-chome, Tsushima, Okayama 700-8530
Japan
Summary. This paper describes the development of two new types of pectoral fins made of
elastic materials. The fins were designed to have flexibility and multifunctionality for use
not only as propulsive devices in biomimetic underwater vehicles but in other applications
such as grippers, thus avoiding the environmental damage often caused by rigid fins. We
developed an actively controlled pneumatic fin and a passively controlled flexible fin.
The former is composed of silicone with a build-in FMA (flexible micro-actuator) and
generates propulsive force by means of a lifting motion driven by the FMA. The latter type
of flexible fin is formed of silicone rubber and generates propulsive force by means of a dr-
agging motion. We experimentally verified the elastic pectoral fins’ ability to generate pro-
pulsive force and used FEM to analyze the fins’ behavior.
Key words. Biomimetic Underwater Vehicle, Mechanical Pectoral Fin, Elastic, Pneumatic
Actuator, Flexible Micro Actuator, Passive Flexible Fin, Finite Element Method
1 Introduction
Lindsey(1978) classified swimming modes of fish into body and/or caudal fin (BCF) mode,
and median and/or paired fin (MPF) mode, according to portion and parts in fish body as
the propulsive structure for thrust generation. Furthermore, BCF mode and MPF mode were
classified into undulatory motion involving the passage of a wave along the propulsive
structure, and oscillatory motion controlled by fin rays such as a fan with several degrees of
freedom without exhibiting a wavy motion. Pectoral fin propulsion has classically been di-
vided into two categories which represent biomechanical extremes in the use of appendages
for propulsion: drag-based and lift-based mechanisms of thrust production (Blake 1979 and
Webb 1973).
In drag-based propulsion the pectoral fins move mainly along a horizontal stroke plane in
a rowing mode of propulsion. The fins usually form a high angle with the main axis. The
fins generate thrust force while the fins are retracted posteriorly (power stroke) if the veloc-
ity of fin retraction is greater than the velocity of water movement. During the recovery
(protraction) stroke, the fin is feathered so that drag on the fin is reduced and the fin is
brought forward. There is no positive thrust generated during the recovery stroke.
In lifi-based propulsion the pectoral fins move mainly along a vertical stroke plane in a
flapping mode of propulsion with a low angle of attack to the direction of forward progress-
sion. The fins generate thrust force during both upstroke and downstroke.
Focusing on the oscillatory motion of pectoral fin in MPF mode, we have studied its
271

--- Page 274 ---
272
biomimesis to develop a mechanical pectoral fin for precisely maneuvering underwater ve-
hicles and developed a biomimetic underwater vehicle equipped with 2 pairs of mechanical
pectoral fins (Kato et al. 2004, Kato 2005,Kato et al. 2005, 2006). The mechanical pectoral
fin uses a rigid plate and is capable of producing both the lift-based and the drag-based
swimming modes.
On the other hand, several types of flexible fin for MPF mode have been developed so
far, for instance, Davis et al.(1998) using flexible hydraulic tubes, Toda et al.(2004) using a
pair of undulating side fins consisting of flapping rods, Sandberg et al.(2006) using a set of
flapping rods producing flexible curvature of pectoral fin and Ichikizaki et al. (2006) for
flexible pectoral fins.
This paper deals with the development of new pectoral fins made of elastic materials for
use as not only a propulsive device, but also as grippers, allowing the system to avoid dam-
aging the environment in such as a way a did the rigid fins of our previous mechanical pec-
toral fin device. In light of these concerns, we developed two kinds of elastic propulsive
devices: an actively controlled pneumatic fin and a passively controlled flexible fin. These
fins are referred to as the “Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin” and the “Passive Flexible Fin”,
respectively. This paper describes these two new elastic pectoral fins’ actuators, focusing
on the following areas:
(1) 
The development of the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin and the Passive Flexible Fin,
(2) 
Verification tests for estimating the propulsive forces generated by these new elastic
fins,
(3) 
Finite Element Method (FEM) analyses of the behavior of the two new elastic fins.
2 Mechanical Pectoral Fin Device
In this study, we improved the mechanical pectoral fin’s device producing rowing, feath-
ering, and flapping motions (Fig.1) by installing air bulb controllers inside it for the Active
Pneumatic Actuator as shown in Figure 2. Rowing, feathering, and flapping motions are
characterized by back-and-forth motions, twisting motions, and up-and-down motions, re-
spectively.
: 
: 
- 
: 
: 
3 
a
Rowing motion 
Feathering motion 
i
2 
. 
r 
‘
Wee 
ere es
Flapping motion
Fig.1. Basic motion of pectoral fin 
Fig.2. Improved mechanica! pectoral fin device
3 Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin
3.1 FMA (Flexible Micro Actuator)
The Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin consists of three Flexible Micro Actuators (FMAs).
FMAs made of silicon rubber with fiber reinforcement were previously developed by one
of the authors (Suzumori et al. 1989,1990,1991). The FMA has three pressure chambers in-
side a rubber tube as shown in Figure 3, and motions with three degrees of freedom are re-
alized by controlling the pressure in these chambers independently. The distinctive features
of the FMA are:
1. 
Ease of miniaturization because of its simple structure,

--- Page 275 ---
273
2. 
High ratio of output to weight,
3. 
— Its possible use as a component of a manipulator.
Silene an = =< 
| 
Air supply
tubes 
%
> "A
| 
Fiber-reinforced im 
;
| 
eee i 
E Rubber caps
Fig.3. Structure of FMA
3.2 Propulsive principle
The Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin, which can produce a feathering motion, requires only
a flapping motion by the mechanical pectoral fin device in order to generate propulsive for-
ces using a lift-based swimming mode with small angles of attack against uniform flow, w-
hereas the rigid mechanical pectoral fin needs both flapping and feathering motions in order
to perform lift-based swimming mode. To produce a feathering motion, the Active Pneuma-
tic Actuator Fin uses three build-in FMAs.
3.3 Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin
We developed a prototype of the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin and performed verifica-
tion tests on it. However, the driving displacement of the fin was small. In addition, the
analog valves necessary to drive FMAs inside the fin cannot be installed in biomimetic un-
derwater vehicles, because these valves require a relatively large space. To solve these
problems, fin shape and pressurization method were improved as shown below.
(A) Shape of the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin
To allow the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin a larger range of motion, the fin shapes are
designed as shown in Figs.4 and 5 (Endo, et al., 2005b). Their span is 130mm and width
113mm. The web between the FMAs is made of silicon rubber and is crinkled. The thick-
ness of the web is 1.5mm. The diameter of the pressurized section of the FMA is #18.
Figure 5 shows the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin with FMAs.
. 
12004 
_
25 _
- 
_| R86 28 re
@
_ 
' 
B
| 
a 
=
S| 2 
— 
re
= 
s 
ba]
1729 
|
K-c 
:
Fig.4. Dimensions of Active Pneumatic 
Fig.5. Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin
Actuator Fin [mm]

--- Page 276 ---
274
(B) PWM controlled digital valves
Small digital valves instead of analog valves were installed in the mechanical pectoral fin
device. These valves are driven with the PWM control in order to realize air pressure con-
trol like analog control.
Input lines for sensors
20 
+ 
ITTTITAtET 
1
Putpat lines for motors control
16 41h) 
OFF 
PC
Da 
| i 
Wirth 
DSP Board 
Force and
—E 
| 
Torque
» 
124
2 
sensors
= 
j 
Circuit with
fs 
build-in PIC SO L
3 
| 
micro 
= 
= 
: 
Bird Fin
o 
| 
computer 
‘= 
1
4 
aa
| i 
| 
DC Power t= _| 
bse
0 
| 
Mul 
;
Power box of valves 
Stepping motors
0 
125 
250 
375 
500
Time [ms] 
[och lines for valves control] [Digital valves| 
. | Fin actuator
Fig.6. Control time of PWM driving 
Fig.7. Control system of air pressure
The cyclical time of the PWM control is 20ms, and it is possible to control the resolution
of Ims. Figure 6 shows the time pattern at a 2 Hz of driving frequency. The air pressure of
the FMA is controlled by the ratio of ON- and OFF-time as shown in Fig.6. Figure 7 shows
the control system. Nine control codes of the output from the DSP board are sent to PIC
microcomputers. Based on these codes, the digital valves are controlled by the PWM con-
trol program in PIC microcomputer.
(C) Driving experiments regarding the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin
We performed experiments to determine whether the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin can
produce the feathering motion by controlling the pressures in the nine chambers. Figure 8
shows an example of the principle of the feathering motion as performed by the Active
Pneumatic Actuator Fin. The filled chambers by color are pressurized. By controlling the
pressures of three of the nine chambers as shown in Figure 10, we can make the Active
Pneumatic Actuator Fin rotate clockwise as well as anticlockwise as required for the feath-
ering motion.
Fig.8. Principle of Feathering Motion by Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin
(Left; clockwise rotation, Right; anticlockwise rotation)
In these experiments, the maximum pressure in the chambers was 0.2MPa. To make the
Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin perform a more precise feathering motion, we pressurized
the chambers with the phase difference of x at both ends as shown in Figs.9 and 10 with-
out pressurizing the center chambers. Figure 11 shows a view of the driving experiments.
The results of the driving experiments demonstrate that the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin
can successfully perform a feathering motion.

--- Page 277 ---
275
Control 
: 
Phase
Number 
Difference
4 
OO
1: 
0 a 
a
Ne
4
4
a 
a
5 
~ AO 
SN
6 
0
Fig.9. Control numbers of FMA chambers 
Fig.10. Pressure variations with time in each chamber
?
Fig.11. View of driving experiments
3.5 Propulsive performance by the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin in a uniform flow
We performed experiments to verify that the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin can generate
propulsive forces in a uniform flow using the Towing Tank at Osaka University, which
measures 100 meters in length, 7.8 meters in width, and 4.35 meters in depth.
Zz
xX. 
my
water line
0.3m 0.36m
center line 
0.42m
; 
0.13
uniform flow 
¥ 
m
Fig.12. View of experiment at the Towing Tank
The mechanical pectoral fin device shown in Figure 2 was submerged at a depth of 0.36
meters at the center line of the fuselage as shown in Fig.12. 
A 6-components force sensor
was attached to the top of the strut to measure the hydrodynamic forces. The hydrodynamic

--- Page 278 ---
276
forces acting on the fin only were estimated by subtracting the forces acting on the device
without the fin from the total forces acting on the device with the fin. The uniform flow was
set at 0.16m/s, and the frequency of the flapping motion produced by the mechanical pecto-
ral fin device and the feathering motion produced by the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin
was set at 1Hz to produce lift-based swimming motion. The flapping motion is described as
follows:
Pr, = bey, 008(,,-1+ Ag, ) 
(1)
where wf, denotes the angular velocity of the fin, ¢ and the time, @rza the amplitude of
the flapping motion, and A @rz the phase difference between the flapping motion and the
pressure at No.1 and No.6 FMA chambers in Fig.9. We set ®rz4as 40.0 ° ,referring to the
optimum parameters of the mechanical pectoral fin device using a rigid fin for the lift-based
swimming mode (Kato et al. 2004). 4 ®rz was changed every 30.0 ° within the range from
—150 ° to 180 ° . The non-dimensional propulsive force coefficient,Cx , is defined by the
following equation:
C, = F,1(0.5-p-U?-S) 
(2)
where F, denotes the propulsive force, ¢ the fluid density, U the uniform flow velocity, and
S the fin’s surface area. Figure 13 shows the comparison of the experimental results be-
tween combination of flapping motion and feathering motion, and only the flapping motion.
We can see that the fin can generate thrust over a region by using the lift-based swimming
mode consisting of the flapping motion produced by the mechanical pectoral fin device and
the feathering motion produced by the Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin.
@ 
Flapping motion 
+ Feathering motion
@ 
Flapping motion
2 ~———_— 
ee
(Bs
-200 
-150 
-100 
-50 
0 
50 
100 
150 
200
4@, |deg]
Fig.13. Comparisons of the experimental results in uniform flow
3.6 Finite element analysis of the behavior of individual FMA
(A) Hyper elastic Material of FMA
We used FMA made of silicon rubber. The typical properties of silicon rubber include
1. 
The ability to remain elastic even while undergoing large deformation,
2. 
A highly nonlinear relationship between load and extension,
3. 
| Near incompressibility.
These characteristics can be generally defined as hyperelastic. It is appropriate for mod-
eling the mechanical behavior of elastomers such as silicon rubber of which the FMA and
the web are made. Hyperelasticity is defined as a material that has an elastic potential func-
tion W. A stress tensor is derived by differentiating W with respect to the conjugate strain

--- Page 279 ---
277
tensor as
Ow
= 
3
"OE; 
@)
where the following definitions can be applied:
E=(C-I)/2 
(4)
where E denotes the Green-Lagrange strain tensor, C the right Cauchy-Green deformation
tensor, and S the second Piola-Kirchhoff stress tensor. The elastic potential function W is
defined as the functions of the ratios of expansion and contraction, A, , 2), and A, , in three
dimensions.
W = f(Ay,49,43) 
(5)
In this analysis, we use the Ogden model for 
W since this model can represent the
behavior of slightly compressible rubber. The elastic potential function W in the Ogden
model is defined as
N 
~a 
2
W = ra A (ar + age 4 af )-3}. asK{ a - J 
(6)
where u,, and @,, are material constants, K is the initial bulk modulus, and J is the volumet-
ric ratio, defined by
J=Adohs 
(7)
The number N of the terms expressed in the Ogden model was set as 3 in this study.
(B) FE Analysis of the Flexible Micro Actuator
We computationally analyzed the behaviors of the individual FMA when each chamber is
pressurized at 0.2 MPa using FEM software MSC.Marc. To determine the Ogden con-
stants in Eq. (7), uniaxial tensile tests were performed using specimens made of the same
materials as the FMA and the web. Optimizing the Ogden constants derived by the tensile
tests, we used FEM to analyze the behavior of the individual FMA as shown in Fig. 14.
Figure 15 shows the FE model of the FMA.
w
22 
70 
15 
eee
| $18) 
107 
eee $SRSASES| 
SSS 
ESLSES 
ES
Fig.14. Dimensions of FMA [unit: mm] 
Fig.15. FE model of FMA
-20
_ 
| 0,05 MPa
f°) 
x 
zy
z 0¢4-e
a 
4 
ff 
9 0-15 MPa
£ 20 
0.1 MPa
F
+ 
2 40 
Aa
rT 
> 
@— 
Measured 
0.2 MPa
\sui 
a 
A— 
FE Analysis
] 
60 
+
. 
0 
20 
40 
60 
8c
Displacement in X-axis [mm]
Fig.16. Behavior of Image Analysis and FEM Analysis 
Fig.17. Comparison of displacements
(Left: Measured Image, Right: FE Analysis) 
in X and Y-axes of FMA

--- Page 280 ---
278
Figure 16 shows the behaviors of the FMA at 0.2MPa by FE and image analyses. By de-
fining the X-Y axes as shown in Fig.16, we compared the components of the displacements
at the top of FMA in the X-Y axes as determined by FE analysis with those obtained by the
image analysis as shown in Fig.17. We can see that the behavior of the FMA by FE analy-
sis expresses well the experimentally measured behavior at each pressure level.
4 Passive Flexible Fin
4.1 Propulsive principle
Passive flexible fin performs a drag-based swimming mode consisting of only a rowing
motion as a way to produce propulsive forces. The rowing motion is divided into two
strokes: a power stroke and a recovery stroke. The power stroke is defined as the motion
from the anterior position to the posterior position. The recovery stroke is defined as the re-
verse motion of the power stroke. It is ideal to produce propulsive forces during the power
stroke and to minimize drag forces during the recovery stroke in order to produce the
maximum propulsive forces during one cycle (Endo et al. 2005a). It is necessary for the fin
to change its shape depending on the moving phase in order to change its drag coefficient.
We developed a fin that is made of silicone rubber containing grooves in order to allow the
fin to change its structural stiffness. The grooves fabricated on the fin make the fin harder
during the power stroke, while softer during the recovery stroke. This working principle is
shown in Fig.18.
The outline shape of the fin is shown in Fig.19. In optimizing those two strokes in the
passive flexible fin, two types of groove pattern were designed and tested: a level groove as
shown in Fig. 20 and a vertical groove as shown in Fig.21.
R100
ae
\ 
() 
R10 
-
\) + 
Eze 
> 
“ 
st 
S
ie nO , OD 
— 
Ec
ea 
Pree 
i ae 
ai 
ele 
ls
| 
90
| i+ 
| 
>, 
0
10
Power stroke 
Normal 
Recovery stroke 
a0
Fig.18. The propulsive principle 
Fig.19. Dimensions of Passive Flexible Fin Unit [mm]
yj
Lf
Fig.20. Level grooved passive fin 
Fig.21. Vertically grooved passive fin

--- Page 281 ---
279
4.2 Propulsive performance of the Passive Flexible Fin in still water
We experimentally measured the propulsive forces of the Passive Flexible Fin by perform-
ing a simple rowing motion in still water. In these experiments, the amplitude of the rowing
motion was set at 30 degrees, and the frequency of the rowing motion was set at 1.0Hz. As
well, the measurement time of the rowing motion was set at 10s. The non-dimensional pro-
pulsive force coefficient, Co is defined by the following equation:
C.) = Fx/(0.5: p-(@in «cy +S) 
(8)
where F, denotes the propulsive force, p the fluid density, w,, the angular velocity of the
fin, c the maximum chord of the fin, and S the surface area of the fin.
Level grooved passive fin 
40 a
4 
---- 
Rowing 
Angl 
rT 
©
3 
lowing 
Angle 
20 @
2 
20 
2
1 
10 2
4 0 
0 
2
On 
-10 <
- 
c
-30 
5S
.-40 8
c
—— Vertically grooved passive fin
a
4 
nme 
j 
40 
@
Ce 
Rowing Angle 
30 3
25 
20 ”
o
14 
10 5
g 0+ 
0 
2
0 44 
-10 <
2-4 
30 a
0 
-30 
=
-4 
+ -40 3
0.0 
0.2 
0.4 
0.6 
0.8 
10
Time [sec]
(b) Vertically grooved passive fin
Fig.23. Non-dimensional propulsive force coefficients and the rowing angles during one cycle
Figure 22 shows a view of the experiments involving a fin in which grooves are cut in
the right side. Figure 23 shows the propulsive force coefficients in the direction of the X-
axis and the time variations of the rowing angles during one cycle where the anti-clockwise
rotation of the rowing motion is defined as positive, comparing the passive fin having level
grooves with the passive fin having vertical grooves. In the case of the passive fin having
vertical grooves, the average value of the non-dimensional propulsive force coefficient dur-
ing one cycle is 0.306. In the case of the passive fin having level grooves, this value is
0.031.

--- Page 282 ---
280
We can see from these results that the vertical grooves on the fin’s surface contribute
more effectively than do the level grooves to the generation of propulsive forces during the
power stroke and to the decrease of drag forces during the recovery stroke.
4.3. 
Dynamical finite element analysis of Passive Flexible Fin behaviors
(A) Hyper-elastic Material of Passive Flexible
In this analysis, we used the Mooney-Rivlin model as W since this model can represent
the behavior of incompressible isotropic rubber. The elastic potential function W in the
Mooney-Rivlin model (the James-Green-Simpson model) is defined as
W =Cio( -3) + Co (Fn -3) + C1 (4 -3) 
(Zn -3) +
2 
2
Cy9 
(I, -3)° + C39 (4, -3)
where c, are material constants, and the principal invariants /; are a function of 4, , defined
by
(9)
NA +4 tay
Ip = AP Ag + Ay Ag? + Ag ay? 
(10)
I, = 7 AeA? =0
(B) 
FE analysis of Passive Flexible Fin
We used FEM to analyze the dynamical behavior of the vertically grooved passive fin,
which can effectively generate thrust in air. To determine the Mooney-Rivlin constants in
Eg. (10), uniaxial tensile tests were carried out using specimens composed of the same ma-
terials as those of the verticaliy grooved passive fin. Optimizing the Mooney-Rivlin con-
stants derived from tensile tests, we analyzed the dynamical behavior of the vertically
grooved passive fin as it produced a rowing motion in air. In this analysis, the amplitude of
the rowing motion was set at 30 degrees, and the period of the motion was set at 0.5s.
We also analyzed the rowing motion of the vertically grooved passive fin in air through
image analysis at an interval of 0.03s. We compared the motion obtained by the image
analysis with that determined by FE analysis. Figure 24 shows a comparison of the results
of the image analysis and the FE analysis where the X-Y coordinate is defined. The tip of
the fin was analyzed.
bs
Measured Point
(a) Comparison of maximum displacement 
(b) Comparison of minimum displacement
Fig.24. Comparisons of displacement in X-axis (Left: Measured Image, Right: FE Analysis)

--- Page 283 ---
281
—@— image Analysis
—dMe— 
FE Analysis 
- 
40
100 
- 
— 
Rowing Angle 
30
20
10
50
it 
in X:
-10
-20
-30
-40
-50
Rowing 
Angles 
[deg]
-100
a 
Ls 
+ 
t
F 
0.0 
0.2 
0.4 
0.6 
0.8 
1.0
Time [sec]
Fig.25. Comparison of the displacement in X-axis
—@— Image Analysis 
|
80 
—M&— 
FE Analysis 
I
tin 
Y:
0.0 - 
7 
0.2 
: 
0.4 
0.6 
0.8 
1.0
Time [sec]
Fig.26. Comparison of the displacement in Y-axis
Figure 25 shows a comparison of the displacements in the X-axis between the results of
FE analysis and image analysis. Figure 26 shows a comparison of the results on the Y-axis.
We can see that FE analysis can express dynamic behavior quantitatively. However, we can
see that there is a difference in displacement peaks on the Y-axis between the FE analysis
results and those of the experiments. These phenomena may be attributed to the high-
nonlinear characteristics of the elastomers.
5 
Conclusion
In the present study, we discussed the development of two new types of elastic pectoral fin
with the following results:
1. 
The Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin with built-in FMAs was found to work success-
fully through the employment of digital valves controlled by PIC microcomputers
2. 
The Active Pneumatic Actuator Fin can generate propulsive force by using a lift-
based swimming motion.
The highly non-linear behavior of a single FMA was analyzed.
4. 
The vertical grooves on one side of a Passive Flexible Fin were found to contribute to
the generation of propulsive force during the power stroke and to the decrease of drag
force during the recovery stroke.
5. 
FE analysis fairly well expresses the dynamic behavior of the vertically grooved pas-
sive fin as experimentally measured quantitatively by image analysis.
In our future work, we will use a combination of FE analysis and Computational Fluid
Dynamics (CFD) analysis to investigate the behavior of both fins more precisely in order to
simulate their performance when employed on an underwater vehicle.
Ww
6 
Acknowledgements
This research was funded for three years beginning in 2005 by the Ministry of Educa-
tion, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Japan, (Grant No. 16360435) as the project
title “Application of flexible Microactuator for an underwater vehicle”.

--- Page 284 ---
282
7 
References
Blake, R.W. (1979) The Mechanics of Labriform Locomotion. I. Labriform Locomotion in the Angel-
fish(Pterophyllum eimekei): An Analysis of the Power Stroke, J. Exp. Biol., 82, pp.255-271
Davies, J.B.C., Lane, D.M., Robinson, G.C., O’Brien, D.J., Pickett, M., Sfakiotakis, M. and Deacon, B.
(1998) Subsea Applications of Continuum Robots, Proc. of 1998 International Symp. on Under-
water Technology, pp.363-369
Endo, S., Suzumori, K., Kanda, T., Kato, N., Suzuki, H., and Ando, Y. (2005a) Development of Flexi-
ble Pectoral Fin Actuator for Underwater Vehicle (1x Report, Development of Drag-based Passive
Pectoral Fin), Trans. JSME, (in Japanese), Robotics and Mechatronics Symposium2005, [A1-N-
069
Endo, S., Suzumori, K., Kanda, T., Kato, N., Suzuki, H., and Ando, Y. (2005b) Development of Flexi-
ble Pectoral Fin Actuator for Underwater Vehicle (2na Report, Development of Lift-based Active
Pectoral Fin), Trans. JSME, (in Japanese), Robotics and Mechatronics Symposium2005, 1A1-N-
070
Ichikizaki, T., Yamamoto, Y.(2006) Development of Fish-like Robot with Various Swimming Func-
tions, Proc. of JASNAOE No.3, (in Japanese), pp27-30
Kato, N., Liu, H. and Morikawa, H. (2004) Biology-Inspired Precision Maneuvering of Underwater
Vehicles in “Bio-mechanisms of Swimming and Flying,” edited by N.Kato, J. Ayers and
H.Morikawa, Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, pp.111-125
Kato, N.(2005) Controllers for Biomimetic Marine Vehicles, Applied Mechanics Reviews, Transac-
tions of the ASME, Vol.58, No.4, pp.238-252
Kato, N, Liu, H and Morikawa, H (2005) Biology-Inspired Precision Maneuvering of Underwater Ve-
hicles (Part 3), Int. 
J. Offshore and Polar Eng., Vol.15, No.2, pp.81-87
Kato, N., Ando, Y., Shigetomi, T., and Katayama, T. (2006) Biology-Inspired Precision Maneuvering
of Underwater Vehicles (Part 4), International Journal of Offshore and Polar Engineering, Vol.16,
No.3, p.p. 195-201
Lindsey, C. C. (1978). Form, function and locomotory habits in fish. In Fish Physiology, vol. 7 (ed. W.
S. Hoar and D. J. Randall), pp.1-100. New York: Academic Press
Suzumori, K., (1989) Flexible Microactuator (11 Report, Static Characteristics of 3 DOF Actuator),
Trans. JSME, (in Japanese), C55, pp.2547-2552
Suzumori, K., (1990) Flexible Microactuator (2na Report, Dynamic Characteristics of 3 DOF Actuator)
Trans. JSME, (in Japanese), C56, pp. 1887-1892.
Suzumori, K., and Tanaka, H., (1991).Flexible Microactuator (3:4 Report, An Application to a Multi-
finderd Robot Hand), Trans. JSME, (in Japanese), C57, pp.1261-1266.
Toda, Y., Suzuki, T., Uto, 8. and Tanaka, N. (2004) Fundamental Study of a Fishlike Body with Two
Undulating Side-Fins,” in Bio-mechanisms of Swimming and Flying, edited by N.Kato, J. Ayers
and H. Morikawa, Springer-Verlag, Tokyo, pp.93-110
Sandberg, W.C. and Ramamurti,R. (2006) 3-D Unsteady Computations of Flapping Flight in Insects,
Fish, and Unmanned Vehicles, Proc. of EAMBEC (CD-ROM)
Webb, P.W. (1973) Kinematics of Pectoral Fin Propulsion in Cymatogaster Aggregate, J. Exp. Biol.,
59, pp.697-710

--- Page 285 ---
Chapter23
Design, Development, and Testing of Flapping
Fins with Actively Controlled Curvature for an
Unmanned Underwater Vehicle
John Palmisano', Jason Geder’, Ravi Ramamurti’, Kerr-Jia Liu’,
Jonah Jonah Cohen’, Tewodros Mengesha® , Jawad Naciri’,
William Sandberg’, and Banahalli Ratna’
"Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, Naval Research Labo-
ratory, Washington, DC
* Laboratory for Computational Physics and Fluid Dynamics, Naval Re-
search Laboratory, Washington, DC
3 Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, George Wash-
ington University, Washington, DC
Summary. This paper describes the design, construction, and testing of a
biomimetic pectoral (side) fin with actively controlled curvature for UUV
propulsion. It also describes the development of a test UUV and the design
of a fin control system for vertical plane motion. 
A 3D unsteady computa-
tional fluid dynamics (CFD) analysis has been carried out to computation-
ally optimize the fin design including a full study of the primary design pa-
rameters. The fin has been constructed and it can reproduce any specified
deformation time-history. The full dynamics of the proposed vehicle have
been modeled and the forces produced by the flapping fins computed. Fi-
nally, the stability of motion in the vertical plane has been analyzed and a
control system has been designed.
Key words. Biomimetic pectoral fin, UUV, unsteady CFD, PID control,
adaptive curvature
1 Introduction
Unmanned underwater vehicles (UUVs) have proven very useful in a wide
range of applications including inspection, surveillance and exploration.
Current technology allows UUVs to excel at complex operations from
deep-sea diving to high-speed and long distance traversal. However, one
weakness of this proven technology is low-speed, high maneuverability
283

--- Page 286 ---
284
operations that are required for near-shore and littoral zone missions. A
UUV designed for high performance in this niche area is essential to ac-
complish inspection and surveillance in such challenging environments.
To confront the issue of low-speed maneuverability in the presence of
currents and near-shore obstacles, flapping fin mechanisms have been
studied to understand how certain aquatic animals achieve their high levels
of controllability. Blake (1979) determined that labriform locomotion, us-
ing pectoral fin oscillation with very little body undulation, is more effi-
cient and allows for better maneuverability in low-speed operations than
carangiform locomotion, using body and caudal fin oscillation. This result
is important to UUV applications because artificial fins based on those of
labriform swimmers can be mounted on a rigid hull without sacrificing in-
ternal volume for complex body actuation mechanisms. Kato (2000) de-
veloped a UUV based on the small-mouth bass with rigid flapping fins.
Licht et al. (2004) presented a design for an underwater vehicle and inves-
tigated the issue of vehicle control, again using rigid flapping foils. Kato
et al. (2002) and Ando et al. (2006) have developed both lift-based and
drag-based deformable pectoral fins for use on UUVs. None of these fins,
however, provide the precise control of surface curvature time-history that
we have determined to be necessary to meet our performance goals for
hovering and low-speed maneuvering.
Walker and Westneat (1997) experimentally studied fin kinematics of a
class of \ift-based labriform swimmers, specifically the bird wrasse, whose
lift-based pectoral fin force production was a good match with our per-
formance objectives. 
Ramamurti and Sandberg (2002) computationally
studied force production by the bird wrasse and obtained good agreement
with the results of Walker and Westneat (1997). We applied this validated
computational method to the design and development of a biomimetic pec-
toral fin propulsor with actively controlled curvature.
We have chosen a two-fin test vehicle design in order to demonstrate
deforming fin force production and vertical plane control in an underwater
environment. 
We present a model of the dynamics of the vehicle for
steady, level flight. The stability of motion in the vertical plane is ana-
lyzed, and vehicle geometries and linear control design techniques are con-
sidered.
2 Fin Design
The fin design begins with an in-depth analysis of the common bird wrasse
pectoral fin, placing emphasis on fin kinematics, fluid dynamics, and anat-
omy. 
We identified dominant parameters and computationally investi-

--- Page 287 ---
285
gated their effects on force production. The results of our parametric study
are presented to aid in future pectoral fin design. We then present the de-
sign and rationale of the physically constructed device that can produce the
required fin kinematics. Lastly, the experimental measurements from our
flapping fin tests are used to verify that the flapping fin is deforming in
time as desired and to determine the actuator power required.
2.1 CFD Parameterization
To understand the effects of fin kinematics on propulsive force production,
we used a 3D unsteady computational fluid dynamics code, FEFLO, which
is an unstructured grid-based unsteady Navier-Stokes solver with auto-
matic adaptive remeshing (Loéhner 1988). 
Already successfully demon-
strated by Ramamurti et al. (1996) and by Ramamurti and Sandberg
(2001), this computational capability was extremely important in designing
the pectoral fin. Not only did it help us rule out ineffective designs such as
a rigid flapping fin (Ramamurti and Sandberg 2004), but also in testing de-
sign variations in search for performance gains. In this manner, we identi-
fied four major independent parameters that can be varied to change the
force generation time-history during a stroke cycle: fin surface curvature,
root angle of attack, bulk rotation angle, and frequency.
Fin surface curvature is defined as the shape of the fin with respect to
time. There are 14 fin rays (also referred to as ribs) in the bird wrasse pec-
toral fin, each contributing to the fin curvature kinematics. For simplicity
of design, manufacture, actuation and control, it is ideal to have the fewest
possible number of ribs. But for more effective fin propulsion, it is ideal
to maximize the number of ribs as more control points result in a smoother
fit to desired fin curvature time-histories. Using CFD it was determined
that 5 ribs resulted in a good balance between effective curvature and our
specific mechanical implementation constraints (Ramamurti and Sandberg
2006). 
The overall rib and fin dimensions are scaled up from the bird
wrasse pectoral fin to match our operational UUV requirements (Palmis-
ano et al. (2007)). 
By imitating bird wrasse kinematics observed by
Walker and Westneat (1997), we have determined an effective fin tip de-
flection time profile to define fin curvature. The curvature of each rib is
defined by rib geometry and changes as a function of tip deflection. Due
to a small deflection angle, rib 3 passively actuates between ribs 2 and 4.
The angle of attack, a, is the angle of the fin root with respect to the
horizontal axis (Fig. 1). 
In the bird wrasse pectoral fin, this angle varies
throughout the stroke cycle. However, a CFD analysis based on our sim-
plified design and specific curvature time-history showed no thrust benefit

--- Page 288 ---
286
to varying a over time. Instead, a fixed a of 20°, as seen in Fig. 1, was
found to maximize forward thrust. This is consistent with the morphology
of common labrid fish, as fast fish tend to have an a closer to 20° while
slow fish have an a closer to 70° (Wainwright et al. 2002).
Fig. 1. a, @, and fin curvature (at 1 Hz)
The bulk rotation angle, @, is the peak-to-peak amplitude of a stroke
(Fig. 1). In the bird wrasse, this angle is about 74°. However, we found
that as the bulk rotation angle increases, the thrust will also increase. We
chose a nominal peak-to-peak amplitude of 114° for our design, but this
angle can be increased or decreased in flight by a controller for various op-
erational conditions. An increase in bulk rotation angle also results in an
increase of sinusoidal lift amplitude — an effect potentially degrading to
UUV stability.
The fin flapping frequency was varied between 0.3Hz and 3.3Hz to
study its effects on propulsion. It has been found that the upstroke thrust
production increases as the square of the frequency ratio (Ramamurti and
Sandberg 2006). A frequency of 1.2 Hz was chosen as a compromise be-
tween effective fin operation and mechanical limitations, although a higher
frequency would be more desirable. Similar to varying the bulk rotation
angle, changing the frequency can also be used as a vehicle control pa-
rameter.
2.2 Construction
Using the CFD results, and inspiration from the biological construction of
the bird wrasse, we proceeded to construct the device. When encountering
implementation conflicts, it was common to refer back to CFD to under-
stand how a modification would affect propulsion. There are four main
construction challenges: to design an actively deforming rib that we can
exert full control over, to make a flexible skin connecting the ribs to serve

--- Page 289 ---
287
as the fin surface area, to select small, lightweight, feedback controllable
actuators that can independently bend each rib, and to devise a method for
bulk rotation actuation.
Our fin design starts with the structural analysis, optimization, and
construction of each of the five artificial ribs. Our fin rib is a compliant
structure, designed to bend at specific base-to-tip deflection angles when
subjected to translational forces at the base. The fin is composed of five of
these independent ribs, and when actuated in particular patterns, their in-
dependent deflections are combined to create fin curvature as in Fig. 2.
bin
Fig. 2. Independently bending ribs forming pectoral fin curvature
The topology of the compliant ribs was designed by using a structural-
optimization based synthesis approach (Trease et al. 2003) and FEA with
the ultimate objective to ensure the ribs could achieve the required deflec-
tion under fluid pressure when subjected to linear actuation at the base.
The five designed ribs, each individually optimized based on different re-
quired lengths and curvatures, were built from ABS using a 3D printer.
Details of the rib design are outlined by Palmisano et al. (2007).
A flexible skin of thickness .4mm + .1mm is added to create a surface
area between the individual ribs (Palmisano et al. 2007). This skin must
easily stretch under rib deflection, yet not sag under fluid pressure. The
skin was tested for chemical stability in sea water with no detectable deg-
radation over a one month period. Skin thickness optimization was done
experimentally and verified through FEA. Thick skin was shown to con-
tribute significantly to required input force, while skin made too thin
would tear. The empty space inside the fin is allowed to fill with water in
order to equalize hydrostatic pressure and reduce skin sagging.
Servo motors are used as feedback controllable actuators for driving
the ribs and bulk rotation (Fig. 3). Control in this manner is straightfor-
ward, simple to implement, and very affordable. All fin components were
also made from ABS by 3D printing.

--- Page 290 ---
288
* 
Push Rods
\,
i's j 
4 
bone Ribs
4 Servos 
s 
Bulk
‘ 
°
<i Rotation
% 
Axis
‘
Fig. 3. Isometric view of fin system
All servos are controlled by the PIC16F877 microcontroller with a
read-through list of pre-defined rotation angles and timing data points.
Seven selected servo rotation angles for each of the four actuated ribs and
the bulk motion are used during a complete stroke cycle. These angles are
determined by manually measuring servo angle vs. rib curvature for each
individual rib. The same microcontroller simultaneously collects all sensor
data.
2.3 Testing and Results
Fin kinematics, generated forces, and power are measured from the fin.
All measured data is for still water at a prescribed bulk rotation angle of
114°, an angle of attack of 0°, and a cycle frequency of 1.2 Hz. Because
testing occurs in still water, the 0° angle of attack can be rotated in post
processing calculations.
Z Axis - Specified Kinematics 
Z Axis - Actual Kinematics
deflection 
(degrees)
40 
4
time (s) 
time (s)
Fig. 4. (a) Specified CFD rib tip angle + bulk rotation angle (1.2Hz). (b) Actual experimental camera
measurements (1.2Hz).

--- Page 291 ---
289
To verify that the actual experimental kinematics matched the specified
kinematics, we traced the 3D location of each rib tip across an entire cycle.
Two high speed digital video cameras angled at 90° to each other synchro-
nously recorded images of the flapping fin at a predefined time step. Us-
ing image analysis software, matching rib tip coordinates selected from
these image sequences were transformed into 3D coordinates (Geder and
Sandberg 2007). Fig. 4 demonstrates good agreement between desired rib
tip plus bulk rotation angles vs. actual experimental angles.
The measured thrust and lift shown in Fig. 5 are 0.028N and 0.031N, re-
spectively, while the CFD thrust and lift recomputed with experimental
kinematics are 0.0262N and -0.0289N (Palmisano et al. 2007). 
The ex-
pected differences in the force time histories between the experiment and
CFD result from fluid-structure interaction and ingestion of air due to free
surface interaction not present in CFD. 
Submerged vehicle testing will
provide an environment more conducive to measuring the fin force pro-
duction and propulsion efficiency.
Thrust vs Time 
| 
Thrust 
vs Time
Thrust 
(N)
Thrust 
(N)
time(s)
Lift vs Time 
Lift 
vs Time
Lim 
(N)
time (s) 
time (s)
(a) 
(b)
Fig. 5. (a) Measured forces over 3 cycles for experimental kinematics. (b) CFD computed forces over 3
cycles for experimental kinematics.
The total mean power consumption of all the servos was determined ex-
perimentally to be 9.81W, while control electronics consumed an addi-
tional 0.3W (Palmisano et al. 2007). This information was used for battery
sizing, as described in the following section.
3 Vehicle Design
The goal of the test vehicle is to provide a platform which carries a set of
two actively controlled curvature fins in order to demonstrate thrust pro-

--- Page 292 ---
290
duction and vertical plane controllability in an underwater test environ-
ment. The flooded hull design measures 1.3” high, 13” long and 7” wide
(Fig. 6). It has an out of water weight of 2.2Ib, and is slightly negatively
buoyant in water. The center of mass is located near the center of buoy-
ancy. Key hull design parameters were manufacturability, vertical plane
stability, and drag reduction.
(a) 
(b)
Fig. 6. (2) UUV design with two fins. (b) CFD drag analysis on UUV body
The horizontal flat design is not only easy to manufacture but also
improves stability in the vertical plane. A vertical tail is incorporated in
the design to provide stability in the horizontal plane.
The microcontroller has been designed to simultaneously control both
fins, while making decisions based on mission goals and feedback from an
accelerometer, a digital compass, and a depth sensor. The microcontroller
has bootstrap software, allowing it to be reprogrammed in-vitro, as well as
having wireless capabilities to transmit sensor data.
The prototype uses 
a 7.2V NiMH 2600mAh battery with an
experimentally calculated continuous full-speed runtime of 50 minutes.
Actual expected battery life can be significantly longer, as the vehicle can
go into various drift, position holding, and efficiency modes that consume
much less energy.
4 Vehicle Dynamics and Control System Design
With the vehicle design finalized, we then modeled the dynamics of the
system in order to investigate stability issues and determine the necessary
control coefficients. For experimental verification of the modeled dynam-
ics, we will quantitatively measure displacement, velocity, rotation, and
acceleration in each plane by use of both on-board and off-board sensors.
Propulsive forces can then be back-calculated using experimental data as
input to a more sophisticated, transient trajectory computation (Alin et al.
2007).

--- Page 293 ---
291
4.1 Equations of Motion
An undersea vehicle in motion is a complicated dynamic system. The ve-
hicle has both rigid and elastic motions including control surface deflec-
tions and twisting of hydrodynamic surfaces. 
The elastic motion is ob-
served in the bending and twisting of the controlled curvature fins.
Isolating these fins, the rest of the body is treated as rigid, and as such,
simplifications can be made by removing elastic terms from the equations
of motion. We further reduce the equations by placing the body-fixed co-
ordinate frame at the center of buoyancy and assuming symmetry about the
x-z plane.
4.2 Evaluation of Forces and Moments
The forces and moments acting on the vehicle can be represented by the
sum of hydrodynamic, hydrostatic and pectoral fin forces and moments.
Added mass is computed using Taylor series expansion and simplified ge-
ometry (Jakuba 2003). An exact solution of the hydrodynamic force and
moment terms requires solving the Navier-Stokes equations with boundary
conditions.
Because of the complex nature of the actively controlled curvature pec-
toral fins and the vorticity dynamics caused by the periodic flapping mo-
tion, 3-D unsteady CFD computations are needed to determine the force
time-histories for an accurate UUV controls analysis. 
We derived all
necessary force and moment coefficients and integrated them into the
equations of motion, providing a fully described six degree-of-freedom
system.
4.3 Control System Design
To verify the thrust and lift performance of the fins, straight line motion of
a vehicle is first considered. In this mode of motion, sway, yaw and roll
(Y, NV, L) can be assumed zero leaving us with 3DOF motion in the vertical
plane characterized by surge, heave and pitch (X, Z, M). A linearized set
of vertical plane equations (Eq. 4.1) about steady, level flight allows use of
classical control techniques and provides an adequate representation of the
system in the neighborhood of this flight condition (Fig. 7c). Steady level
flight is characterized by a nominal surge velocity and by zero values for
heave and pitch velocities, and pitch angle. Similar linearizations are car-
ried out for other maneuvers including climbing and diving. Later control
systems will incorporate nonlinear control techniques as the need for ma-
neuverability across all flight conditions arises.

--- Page 294 ---
292
mu + 29) =
Xyiutolel + X ye + Xuwugh| -—W - BYO + X pec 
(4.1)
m(W— ugg + xg) =
Zywlgw + Zygog + Zw + 244 +(W-B)+Z pec
Tyq — mxq(W— ugg) + mzqu =
Miywhw 
+ Mygtgg + My w+ M;4 - Wz -Wxe + M pec
Representing the system from Eq. 4.1 in matrix form allows us to de-
termine stability by implementing an open-loop Bode analysis. 
Fig. 7a
shows that the system is stable in pitch and heave velocities without any
form of closed loop control. However, to navigate to specified vehicle
waypoints properly, feedback control is necessary.
Tonmart Speed 
Pech Aegie ®
'
> . 
| 
J
il 
i 
¢
Bi 
| t
is 
Leeernersineeeeirernech 
sl
0 
© 
ie o)
tome fs)
X pontion
0 
am
= 0 
I» 
fxm 
i
i 
H 
Hy
i om 
£0 
E 100 
FH
% 
100 
5 
100 
°% 
100 
* 
@ 
ao
tne (s) 
tome 
tone () 
tame (4)
(a) 
(b)
Z position
linearized model
nonlinear model
°
wn 
3 
an
rr 
re 
ee |
\
}
/
|
|
position 
(in)
time (s)
(c)
Fig. 7. (a) Open-loop vehicle response to fin operating at 2 Hz. (b) Closed-loop vehicle response to
control of depth by way of fin frequency. (c) Closed-loop vehicle response comparison between a full
nonlinear model of the system and a model linearized about steady, level flight.
Adding feedback control to the system, as shown in Fig. 8, provides
the means for the UUV to respond to commands or a changing environ-
ment within specified performance parameters. 
Proportional-integral-
derivative (PID) control has been implemented as a simple and effective
means of controlling our vehicle for the desired testing. 
When control
over a wider range of operating conditions is required in future testing,
more robust, nonlinear control schemes will be implemented. Controllable

--- Page 295 ---
293
parameters for the vehicle include pectoral fin flapping frequency and
stroke amplitude. 
Altering these variables produces an increase or de-
crease in thrust and lift.
Responses
buh
U
>
c
theta
U
“L_4
Fig. 8. Block diagram of vehicle feedback control system
As an example, the responses in Fig. 7b are a result of using depth as
the feedback control variable with fin flapping frequency as the control in-
put. 
In this simulation, we have discretized the control input to only
change every 3 seconds. This allows the fins to operate at a single fre-
quency over 4-5 cycles preserving the integrity of each stroke. With PID
control, we have successfully stabilized depth at a commanded value.
5 Conclusions
We have described the design, development, and testing of actively con-
trolled curvature pectoral fins for use on 
a UUV and demonstrated the
achievement of a desired curvature time-history. We also have described
the prototype vehicle that has been designed to incorporate these fins. The
3-D unsteady CFD analysis used to assist in the fin design and develop-
ment processes, as well as for the vertical plane controller design, has also
been described.
References
Alin N, Fureby C, Svennberg SU, Sandberg WC, Ramamurti R, Bensow RE
(2007) Large Eddy Simulation of the Transient Flow Around A Submarine
During A Maneuver. 45" AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting and Exhibit,
AJAA-2007-1454, Reno, NV
Ando Y, Kato N, Suzuki H, Ariyoshi T, Suzumori K, Kanda T, Endo S (2006)
Elastic Pectoral Fin Actuators for Biomimetic Underwater Vehicles. Proc of
the 16" International Offshore and Polar Engineering Conference, pp 260-267

--- Page 296 ---
294
Blake RW (1979) The mechanics of labriform motion I. Labriform locomotion in
the angelfish (pterophyllum eimekei): An analysis of the power stroke. J Exp
Biol 82:255-271
Geder J, Sandberg WC (2007) Multi-Camera, High-Speed Imaging System for
Flapping Fin Kinematics Measurement. Naval Research Laboratory Memo-
randum Report NRL/MR 6401-07. Submitted for publication January 2007
Jakuba M (2003) Modeling and Control of an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle
with Combined Foil/Thruster Actuators. SM Thesis, WHOI-MIT Joint Pro-
gram in Oceanographic Engineering
Kato N (2000) Control performance in horizontal plane of fish robot with me-
chanical pectoral fins. IEEE J Ocean Eng 25:121-129
Kato N, Lin H, Morikawa H (2002) Biology-Inspired Precision Maneuvering of
Underwater Vehicles. Proc of the 12" International Offshore and Polar Engi-
neering Conference, vol 2, pp 269-276
Licht S, Polidoro V, Flores M, Hover FS, Triantafyllou MS (2004) Design and
Projected Performance of a Flapping Foil AUV. IEEE J Ocean Eng 29:786-
794
Lohner R (1988) An adaptive finite element solver for transient problems with
moving bodies. Computers & Structures 30:303-317
Palmisano J, Ramamurti R, Lu K, Cohen J, Sandberg W, Ratna B (2007) Design
of a Biomimetic Controlled-Curvature Robotic Pectoral Fin. IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Robotics and Automation, Rome, [T
Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC (2001) Simulation of Flow About Flapping Airfoils
Using A Finite Element Incompressible 
Flow Solver, AIAA J., 39 (2):253-260
Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC (2002) Fluid dynamics of flapping aquatic flight in
the bird wrasse: three-dimensional unsteady computations with fin deforma-
tion. J Exp Biol 205:2997-3008
Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC (2004) The influence of fin rigidity and gusts on
force production in fishes and insects: a computational study, 42TM AIAA
Aerospace Sciences Meeting, AIAA 2004-404, Reno, NV
Ramamurti R, Sandberg WC (2006) Computational Fluid Dynamics Study for Op-
timization of a Fin Design. 24" ALAA Applied Aerodynamics Conference,
ATAA-2006-3658, San Francisco, CA
Ramamurti R, Lohner R, Sandberg WC (1996) Computation of unsteady flow past
a tuna with caudal fin oscillation. In: Rahman M, Brebbia CA (Eds) Advances
in Fluid Mechanics Vol. 9. Computational Mechanics Publications, South-
ampton, UK, pp 169-178
Trease BP, Lu KJ, Kota S (2003) Biomimetic Compliant System for Smart Actua-
tor-Driven Aquatic Propulsion: Preliminary Results. ASME Int. Mechanical
Eng. Congress & Exposition, IMECE2003-41446
Wainwright P, Bellwood D, Westneat M (2002) Ecomorphology of Locomotion in
Labrid Fishes. Environmental Biology of Fishes 65:47-62
Walker JA, Westneat MW (1997) Labriform Propulsion in Fishes: Kinematics of
Flapping Aquatic Flight in the Bird Wrasse, Gomphosus Varius (Labridae). J
Exp Biol 200:1549-1569

--- Page 297 ---
Chapter 24
Controlling Biomimetic Underwater Robots With
Electronic Nervous Systems
Joseph Ayers ' and Nikolai Rulkov*?
' Dept of Biology and Marine Science Center, Northeastern University,
East Point, Nahant, MA 01908, USA
* Information Systems Laboratories, San Diego CA 92121, USA
Institute for Nonlinear Science, UCSD, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA
Summary, We are developing biomimetic robots based on neurobiological model systems, the
lobster and the lamprey. Existing implementations of these robots are based on finite state
machine based controllers that instantiate a set of finite state machines based on the
organizational units of the animal model nervous systems. 
These state machines include leg or
body axis central pattern generators (CPGs) that generate leg movements or undulations,
postural pattern generators that control compensatory appendages and/or adaptive sensors and
sensory integration networks that process sensor information. The use of neuron models instead
of finite state systems allows one to replicate in great detail the real behavior of the
neurobiological system (a network) and, thanks to spiking nature of the models, provides a link
between the control functions and the experimental measurements from the animal. The key
feature of these models is that because they are based on capturing of nonlinear dynamical
behavior of neurons rather than neuronal conductance models, they are simpler, can operate in
real time and are thus suitable for robotic control applications.
Key Words. Biomimicry, Lobster, Lamprey, Electronic neuron, Robot
1 Introduction
Animals adapt with impunity to complex environments that challenge the most
sophisticated engineered systems. A standard approach in robotics is to control
systems with nile-based finite state machines (Brooks 1991). Animals, however,
control their behavior with 
networks of neurons 
and simple 
animals 
have
correspondingly simple nervous systems. 
The dynamical principles organizing the
neuron networks that control animal behavior are efficient, robust and flexible. How
they achieve this is still not clear even for the cases of relatively small biological
networks where all connections are established (Selverston, Rabinovich et al. 2000).
The main difficulty in the achieving a complete picture and identifying the
fundamental mechanisms for dynamical control of behavior is that the network needs
to be studied while it operates under closed loop conditions.
A recent trend in the analysis of animal behavior has involved the construction
biomimetic robots that include animal like sensors, actuators and neural circuit
controllers and analysis of their dynamics during interaction with the environment
295

--- Page 298 ---
296
(Webb 2001). Development of such robots allows the investigator to instantiate
hypotheses, but what is presently missing is the capability to instantiate hypothetical
networks from neurons and synapses and test their operation in a vehicle. We are
developing electronic nervous systems (ENS) composed of analog and computed
neurons and synapses for biomimetic robots based on neurobiological model systems,
the lobster and the lamprey (Ayers 2004).
Existing implementations of these robots are based on finite state machine based controllers that
Fig. 1. Upper Panel: The lobster-based ambulatory robot. Lower Panel: The lamprey-based undulatory
robot.
instantiate a set of finite state machines based on the organizational principles of the animal
model nervous systems (Ayers and Witting 2007). These state machines include leg or body
axis central pattern generators (CPGs) that generate leg movements or undulations, postural
pattern generators that control compensatory appendages and/or adaptive sensors and sensory
integration networks that process sensor information. A hierarchical command and coordination
level that sequences behavior makes choices and establishes the inter-segmental coordination
pattern of the locomotory CPGs, modulates the state machines (Ayers 2004). The state machines
implement connectivity and dynamical rules of the system elements. For example the leg CPGs
are based on a synaptic network containing neuronal oscillator, pattern generation and recruiter
levels. The central commands have 2-5 states and recruited by input from exteroceptive sensors.
Although these systems are quite effective in laboratory conditions their effectiveness in
unpredictable field environments degrades.
In this manuscript, we report progress on replacing the finite state machine controllers
with electronic nervous systems formed of synaptic networks of electronic neurons
(Rulkov 2002). The use of neuron models instead of finite state systems allows one to

--- Page 299 ---
297
replicate in great detail the real behavior of the neurobiological system (a network)
and, thanks to spiking nature of the models, provides a link between the control
functions and the experimental measurements from the animal. Now we can not only
suggest and implement a control mechanism but also compare its operation with real
data from the models.
2 Electronic Neuron Central Pattern Generators
f@. 
b: bursts of 
Cc.
Zo} 
{ 
3S
| 
fy
| 
_ 
‘ 
sins
2} 
a 
silence 
@ <x) 
(<)
aa 2 
2 
as 
ges
A 
pups yi iLL
® Mb)! 
) AM
C | 
: ns ANI “UL
e 
Cb Mmm
ee
| 
AAI Ai _Al
i 
mM
Fig. 2. Discrete Time Map 
(DTM) Based Neurons. a. Return Map of the function (see text). 
b.
Bifurcation diagram for different ranges of ( and {. c. Synaptic network modeled in e & f. Cell b is
configured in the bursting regime. Cell c is configured in the spiking regime. d. Effect of long time constant
synaptic inputs from a (a command neuron) on b & c. 
e. Entrainment of
the bursting rhythm evoked in b & c by pulsed short time constant synaptic input from d (a coordinating
neuron).
A two-dimensional discrete time map that describes spiking and spiking-bursting
behavior of a neuron model (Rulkov 2002) can be written as follows
Nid 
= 
Sg Xn Xpis In +B),
Yael 
= y, ~ M(x, +)+ wot yo, ,

--- Page 300 ---
298
where x, is the fast and y, is the slow (due to 0<m.<<1) dynamical variables. The
nonlinear function is written in the following form
af(i-x,)+u, 
x, <9,
FQ 
%, pW) a4 atu, 
O<x,<a@+tuandx,_, 
<0,
nal
-|, 
x, 2a+uorx,,>9,
where the third argument w stands for y, or a combination of input variables that
depend on the model type. Input variables }, and s, incorporate the action of synaptic
inputs 7" and can be written as B,=B,1 
o, =0,U,,,), where be is a
syn? 
Syn
constant that controls how quickly neuron respond to the input and supports dynamical
mechanisms for spike frequency deceleration for DC pulses of current.
A simplified one-dimensional analog of the model is can be written as
Nina 
= 
Fa (% 2%" + Pl.) >
where 5” is a constant defining the resting state of the DMT model. This type of
model does not allow the onset of self-sustained regime of bursting. 
The simplest
map-based model for a synaptic current can be written as
post 
.
ee = yl . E syn (x! - Xp ), 
spike,
nt 
n 
.
0, 
otherwise,
where g,,, is the strength of synaptic coupling, indexes pre and post stand for the
presynaptic and postsynaptic variables, respectively. Here g controls 
the relaxation
rate of the synaps (0 £ g < 1) and x,, defines the reversal potential and, therefore, the
type of synapse: excitatory or inhibitory.
Chemical-based synapse models allow the generation of realistic neuronal circuits. Fig.
2d-f illustrates the implementation of a simple CPG circuit with DTM neurons. DTM
synapses can be 
configured with different time constants to 
mediate 
slow
(neuromodulatory command) or fast effects (perturbation) on other neurons. In this
example, the command neuron a, turns on the oscillation in b and c through long time
constant synapses. Neuron d (here a coordinating neuron) is able to perturb and entrain
the rhythm in b and c due to short time constant synapses.
The key feature of these models is that because they are based on capturing of
nonlinear dynamical behavior of neurons rather than neuronal conductance processes.
Therefore, they are simpler, can operate in real time and are thus suitable for robotic
control applications. Using these circuits we have been able to instantiate the same
control models implemented with the finite state machines. Unlike the state machine
models the EN models are capable of a high degree of modulation of intrinsic

--- Page 301 ---
299
variability including chaos, ensuring a high degree of adaptability as well as a rapid
return to robust stability (Selverston, Rabinovich et al. 2000).
3 Higher Order Control
In the intact animal, a CPG is only one component of the neural machinery underlying
locomotion. Descending command units from the brain can modify the movements of
single limbs while the CPG is operating so as to provide steering and velocity control
(Ayers 2000). In addition, limb proprioceptive reflexes also operate concurrently with
the CPG drive to 
adjust the 
motor pattern to 
the 
immediate environment.
Exteroceptive reflexes, result from feedback extrinsic to the organism and act upon
sets 
of CPGs 
through 
command 
and/or 
modulatory 
interneuronal 
systems.
Exteroceptive reflexes mediate taxes and kineses, responses to gravity, surge and
optical flow, etc., and can both trigger behavioral acts as well modulate them on an
ongoing basis (Kennedy 1977). Animals fuse layers of exteroceptive reflexes to
mediate orientation, navigation and investigation. For example, many animals have a
sense of direction relative to the earths magnetic field (Lohmann, Pentcheff et al.
1995). Orientation to water currents are fundamental to rheotaxis (Moore and Grills
1999) and chemotaxis (Hanna, Grasso et al. 1999).
The command networks that orchestrate behavior in the brain consist of sensory
interneurons, low level commands, organizing commands, pattern generators and
command logic. 
Sensory 
interneurons will process input from the different
exteroceptive sensors (compass, antennae, inclinometers, bump detectors) to realize
releasers for different behaviors as well as to modulate ongoing behavior. We are
developing a hierarchy of commands. 
Low-level commands act on specific task
groups such as the antennae, legs, claws and abdomens. Command organizers act on
sets of low level commands to mediate complete behavioral acts. Command pattern
generators pattern sequences of the activity of command organizers and terminate
goal-achieving sequences. Behavioral choices are mediated by synaptic interactions
between these different elements (Edwards 1991). Command logic is the prioritizing
connectivity that mediates behavioral choice and hierarchy (Kovac and Davis 1977;
Takahata 1998).
We have performed detailed modeling of the exteroceptive control of rheotaxic
behavior mediated by antennal sensors and have developed a hypothetical network
that will mediate rheotaxic behavior in flow in surge. Surge and flow can be detected
by strain gauges embedded in the antenna that are bent by flow as well as the optical
flow of suspended particulates. Two layers of interneurons that distinguish lateral
versus axial flow and activate walking command systems to mediate rotational and
yawing components of rheotaxis process the sensory input.

--- Page 302 ---
300
Lateral 
Left 
Medial 
Medial 
Right 
Lateral
c
surge 
— 
—~
4
_-
© 
om Bi = 
maa 
w
as 
——
ee) ae) oe |
Fig. 3. LabViewTM Discrete time map neuron simulations of rheotaxic responses to surge. a. Orientation of
antennae and orientation of surge. b. The circuit connecting antennal bend afferents, with sensory
interneurons (surge) and walking command neurons (F: forward; B: backward). The upper trace shows the
flow velocity for lateral flow. c. The bend afferents are connected by lateral inhibition 
such that the high
bend (H) inhibits the medium (M) and low (L) bend and the medium bend inhibits the low bend. d.
rotational responses to lateral surge with the antenna held forward as indicated in a. The 2nd through 7”
traces indicate the responses of low, medium and high bend afferents (color coded). The 8" and 9" traces
indicate the responses of rotational and surge interneurons. The 10" and 11" traces indicate the responses of
forward and backward command neurons
Fig. 3 illustrates a simple network to mediate the rotational component of rheotaxic
behavior. The antennae we have developed each have 6 labeled lines that transduce
three degrees of bending to the left and right. If the antennae are projected forward
(Fig. 3a) and flow occurs from the left, the left antennae would be bent medially and
right antennae will be bent to the laterally (Fig. 3). A left rheotaxis interneuron would
respond to this and activate the left backward walking command and the right forward
command to initiate a rheotaxic rotational turn to the left, into the flow by activating
the backward command on the left side and the forward command on the right side.
The suite of exteroceptive reflexes will involve additional layers similar to this to
mediate heading control (sensor: compass), translation and angular rotation (sensor

--- Page 303 ---
301
optical flow vision sensor and micro engineered machine (MEMs) accelerometer),
balance (sensor: MEMs inclinometers) and collisions (sensors: antennae and bump
detectors). We have been able to implement a sense of direction by coupling the sine
and cosine signals from a Hall-effect compass to a network of DTM sensory neurons.
This process involves coupling the output of the analog sensor to the bias current of
the DTM neuron. Lateral inhibition (Fig. 3c) is then used to range fractionate the
output. By this means, we can endow the robot with a neuronal-based sense of
direction.
Fig. 4. Sensory fusion of hydrodynamic and optical flow reflexes. a. Behavioral responses to
combinations of angular rotation and translational optical flow. b. Neuronal! circuits mediating the
exteroceptive reflexes. The arrows indicate unidirectional optical flow sensitive sensors. Circles
represent forward (F) and backward (B) walking commands ce. Network fusing optical flow sensors and
antennal bending sensors to mediate rheotaxis.
We are developing layered sets of exteroceptive reflexes that in some cases will fuse
two or more modalities. For example, a LadybugTM optical flow sensor (CentEye, Inc.)
can be used to instantiate bilateral unidirectional flow sensitive neurons that frequency
code the velocity of unidirectional motion in the same fashion as crustaceans
(Wiersma and Yamaguchi 1966). Crustaceans exhibit four basic compensatory
responses responses to the angular and translational components of optical flow (Fig.
4a). Like the hydrodynamic flow example described above, these optical flow layer
responses can be instantiated by simple networks connecting sensors with locomotory
command neurons. Fig. 4b. 
This optical flow layer can fuse with the corresponding
hydrodynamic flow layer to provide more robust modulation (Fig. 4c).
4 Undulatory Robots
We are also developing an ENS for the control of swimming in an undulatory robot based on the
biomechanics and neuronal control mechanisms of the sea lamprey Fig. 1. The propulsive
system of the undulatory robot (Fig. 1) is a polyurethane strip that is flexed by five bilateral
pairs of shape memory alloy (Nitinol) actuators. We found that five actuator pairs projecting

--- Page 304 ---
302
from 25 to 65% of the body axis were adequate to generate lampriform swimming movements.
Alternating bilateral flexions propagate down the body axis with the same duration as the
undulatory period, eliminating vortices and producing highly efficient swimming. Climbing and
diving are mediated by a SMA actuated pivot between the hull and body axis (Fig. 1) that allows
the generation of low-pressure areas above and below the hull. Turning is mediated by biasing
the amplitude of flexions to the two sides. 
Current sensors include a pitch inclinometer,
compass and a depth gauge. 
Power is provided by 10-nickel metal hydride batteries providing
a mission duration of about 1 % hours.
a. 
b.
+6. 09
33:55.) 3m
Fig. 5. Kinematic Analysis of lamprey swimming. a. Experimental assessment of thrust production
during lamprey swimming. The specimen is tethered to a strain gauge by a thread cemented to the skin at
25% of body length. The numbers represent the instantaneous thrust and time code. b. Correlation of the
position of lateral flexions (expressed as % of body length) in each frame of the movie with instantaneous
thrust (from the video meter). The undulations form propagating flexion waves. Thrust peaks, when the
corresponding flexion wave reaches about 65% of body length.
To quantitatively analyze the undulatory behavior of the lamprey, we employed a
computer program uses stop-frame analysis of video images to establish the dynamics
of body flexion’s (Ayers 1989). Filmed sequences of swimming were then digitized and
analyzed on a frame-by-frame basis (Ayers, Carpenter et al. 1983). Kinematic analysis
of body curvature demonstrates swimming behavior is organized into lateral flexion
waves that propagate either from nose to tail or tail to nose. During swimming, the
propagation time of flexion waves down the body axis is equal to the period so
specimens always maintain an S-shape during swimming.
We developed multimedia techniques to correlate the electrophysiology of behaving
animals with their kinematics (Ayers 1990). The electromyograms or CNS recordings
were recorded on the audio tracks of a videocassette recorder, the behavior in the

--- Page 305 ---
303
a 
| : 
correlated with
EMG Amplitude
Big Lag between
EMG and Flexion
urvet
Fig. 6. Multimedia analysis of lamprey swimming. The top trace is the video frame number. The
second two traces are electromyographic recordings from myotomes on the right side of the body. The
third trace is a graph of the locus of flexions sorted into flexion waves. The horizontal dashed lines in
this figure indicate the locus of the electromyographic electrodes. The third trace is the curvature of
the lateral flexions sorted into flexion waves. The bottom trace is the instantaneous swimming thrust.
The vertical dashed lines in the second and third traces indicate when the flexion wave passes over the
recording electrode
video signal while slower parameters like thrust were embedded in the video signal
using a video meter. After digitization, the data could be combined in displays that
directly correlate electrophysiology with kinematics and thrust generation (Fig. 6). We
found that there was considerable variation in output on a cycle-by-cycle basis,
particularly in response to vibrational stimulation of the aquarium. The most striking
finding of these experiments is the long phase lag between the electromyographic

--- Page 306 ---
304
excitation of the muscle and the mechanical propagation of the flexion wave past the
recording site. Secondly there is considerable cycle-by-cycle variation in the
amplitude of thrust and this was correlated with the amplitude of the corresponding
electromyographic burst. Surprisingly, amplitude could vary profoundly while timing
of the undulations was quite stable. This finding implies that descending modulatory
influences can bypass the neuronal oscillator to directly recruit muscle force.
Fey 
FFF 
FEF 
FEE 
FEF
444 
444 
444 
444 
444
Fig. 7. CNS model for the undulatory robot. Undulations are generated by 5 segmental bilaterally paired
CPGs that drive SMA actuators. The CPGs activate recruiters that activate motor neurons that provide
pulse width duty cycle modulation of the actuators. Larger motor neurons produce longer duration pulses.
The CPGs are coordinated among themselves by coordinating neurons that inhibit the contra-lateral CPG
and the posterior CPG to generate a propagating wave of motor neuron activity. The CPGs are brought into
activation by a descending modulatory command that provides bias current to the CPG elements. Bilateral
paired modulatory interneurons activate the recruiters of the same side to mediate turning.
Variations in period and curvature of flexion waves differentiate lamprey behavior
acts. Thrust occurs when a propulsive wave travels backward over the body at a
velocity 
greater 
than 
the 
speed 
of forward 
swimming. 
Kinematic 
analysis
demonstrates lamprey generate a peak of thrust as each flexion wave passes the cloaca
(Fig. 8). 
The thrust peaks at approximately sixty percent of the body and there are
two peaks of thrust for every swimming cycle.
Based on these observations, we have developed network model to replace the state
machine for the control of the undulatory robot shown in Fig. 7. This network consists
of a concatenated bilateral set of CPGs that activate the motor neurons for each SMA

--- Page 307 ---
305
actuator. The CPGs are brought in to operation by descending command neurons that
provide bias current to the CPG neurons through long time constant excitatory
synapses. Coordinating neurons mediate the intersegmental propagation of flexion
waves down the body so that propagation time equals the cycle period. Recruiting
networks mediate the size principle of motor neuron recruitment and gradation of
muscular force. Amplitude modulatory interneurons bypass the CPG to directly
modulate the recruiters to mediate turning. Modulatory interneurons for turning, pitch,
and roll are modulated by sensor input from the compass, pitch and roll inclinometers.
Descending commands that alter the bias of excitation in anterior vs. posterior
segments will be used to reverse the direction of propagation of the flexion waves to
allow backing up following collisions sensed by bump sensors.
Fig. 8. a. CPG Network for the generation of the undulatory motor program. LIN: Lateral Interneuron,
CC: CC Interneuron, EIN: Excitatory Interneuron. Adapted from (Buchanan and McPherson 1995). b.
Swimming motor program generated by the synaptic network indicated in Fig. 8a
The details of the CPG networks are shown in Fig. 8a. The swimming motor program
is generated by three populations of interneurons connected by excitatory and
inhibitory synapses (Buchanan 1996). The excitatory interneurons appear to be the
primary organizers. 
Lateral inhibitory 
interneurons 
shorten the burst in CC
(contralateral, caudal projecting) interneurons that contribute to bilateral and inter-
segmental coordination. Fig 8b indicates that output of this network instantiated with
DTM neurons. Note the alternating discharge of the EINs on the two sides. This CPG
forms the basis of our undulation controller. The motor neurons activate the SMA
actuators. We use a comparator to gate a pulse from the EN motor neuron action
potential. This pulse is, in turn, used to gate the power transistor applying current to
the SMA actuator. Pulse width duty cycle modulation can be achieved by both
increasing the frequency of motor neuron discharge as well as modulating the width of
the motor neuron action potential (Aldrich, Getting et al. 1979).
5 Conclusions
It is feasible to construct electronic nervous systems for the control of biomimetic
robots. Motor pattern generating circuits of electronic neurons and synapses can
generate adaptive motor programs by modulation of intrinsic variability. ENs can
proportionally control artificial muscle using simple interfaces based on pulse width

--- Page 308 ---
306
duty cycle modulation by neuronal action potentials. Use of sensors that generate
neuron-like pulse trains will allow both proprioceptive and exteroceptive modulation
of motor output using the same reflexes of the animal models. Such architectures can
lead to the generation of relatively cheap and highly adaptive biomimetic robots.
References
Aldrich, R., P. A. Getting, et al. (1979). "Mechanism of frequency-dependent broadening of molluscan
neuron soma spikes." J. Physiol, 291: 531-544.
Ayers, J. (1989). Recovery of oscillator function following spinal regeneration in the Sea Lamprey.
Neuronal and Cellular Oscillators. 
J. W. Jacklet, Marcel Dekker Inc.: 371-406.
Ayers, J. (2000). Finite State Analysis of Behavior and the Development of Underwater Robots. Artificial
Ethology. O. Holland, MacFarland, D. Oxford, Oxford University Press.
Ayers, J. (2004). Architectures for Adaptive Behavior in Biomimetic Underwater Robots. Bio-mechanisms
of Swimming and Flying. N. Kato, Ayers, J., Morikawa, H. Tokyo, Springer-Verlag: 171-187.
Ayers, J. (2004). “Underwater walking.” Arthropod Structure & Development 33(3): 347-360.
Ayers, J., G. A. Carpenter, et al. (1983). "Which behavior does the lamprey central motor program
mediate?" Science 221: 1312-1314.
Ayers, ., Fletcher, G. (1990). "Color Segmentation and Motion Analysis of Biological Image Data on the
Macintosh 1.” Advanced Imaging 5(39-42).
Ayers, J. and J. Witting (2007). "Biomimetic Approaches to the Control of Underwater Walking Machines."
Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. A 365: 273-295.
Brooks, R. A. (1991). "New Approaches to Robotics." Science 253: 1227-1232.
Buchanan, J. T. (1996). “Lamprey spinal interneurons and their roles in swimming activity.” Brain Behav
Evol 48(5): 287-96.
Buchanan, J. T. and D. R. McPherson (1995). "The neuronal network for locomotion in lamprey spinal cord:
evidence for the involvement of commissural interneurons." J Physiol Paris 89(4-6): 221-33.
Edwards, D. H. (1991). "Mutual inhibition among neural command systems as a possible mechanism for
behavioral choice in crayfish.” J Neurosci 11(5): 1210-23.
Hanna, J. P., F. W. Grasso, et al. (1999). "Temporal Correlation Between Sensor Pairs in Different Plume
Positions: A Study of Concentration Information Available to the American Lobster, Homarus
americanus, During Chemotaxis." Biol Bull 197(2): 250-251.
Kennedy, D., Davis, W. J. (1977). Organization of Invertebrate Motor Systems. Handbook of Physiology. S.
R. K. Geiger, E. R., Brookhart, J. M., Montcastle, V. B. Bethesda, MD, American Physiological
Society. Section 1, Part 2: 1023-1087.
Kovac, M. P. and W. J. Davis (1977). "Behavioral Choice: Neural mechanisms in Pleurobranchaea."
Science 198: 632-34.
Lohmann, K., N. Pentcheff, et al. (1995). "Magnetic orientation of spiny lobsters in the ocean: experiments
with undersea coil systems.” J Exp Biol 198(10): 2041-2048.
Moore, P. A. and J. L. Grills (1999). "Chemical orientation to food by the crayfish Orconectes rusticus:
influence of hydrodynamics.” Anim Behay 58(5): 953-963.
Rulkov, N. F. (2002). "Modeling of spiking-bursting neural behavior using two-dimensional map." Phys
Rey E 65: 041922.
Selverston, A. 1., M. I. Rabinovich, et al. 2000). "Reliable circuits from irregular neurons: a dynamical
approach to understanding central pattern generators.” J Physiol Paris 94(5-6); 357-74.
Takahata, M. (1998). “Behavioral hierarchy in crayfish: Multiple gate control of sensori-motor pathways."
Neuroscience Research - Supplement(22): $54.
Webb, B. (2001). “Can robots make good models of biological behaviour?” Behav Brain Sci 24(6): 1033-
50; discussion 1050-94,
Wiersma, C. A. and T. Yamaguchi (1966). "The neuronal components of the optic nerve of the crayfish as
studied by single unit analysis.” J Comp Neurol 128(3): 333-58.

--- Page 309 ---
Chapter 25
Micro-energy Converter Using Insect Wings
Seiichi Sudo’, Kazumasa Nashimoto’, Koji Tsuyuki’, Tetsuya Yano , and
Muneo Futamura!
' Faculty of Systems Science and Technology, Akita Prefectural Univer-
sity, 84-4 Ebinokuchi, Tsuchiya, Yurihonjo, Akita 015-0055, Japan
* Department of Mechanical Systems and Design Engineering, Iwaki Mei-
sei University, 5-5-1 Iino, Chuohdai, Iwaki, Fukushima 970-8551, Japan
Summary. This paper is concerned with the development of novel type of
micro wind energy converter using insect wings. A series of experimental
studies are made on the function of wing apparatus of flying insects. In the
first place, the structural properties of insect wings are studied through
measurements of certain morphological parameters. The scanning electron
microscopic observation of an insect wing shows the morphological char-
acteristics and kinematic characteristics of a fly. In the second place, the
novel type of micro wind energy converter is constructed. The micro wind
energy converter is composed of the permanent magnet (NdFeB magnet),
magnetic fluid (kerosene-based magnetic fluid ferricolloid HC-50), coil,
and insect wings. The power generation characteristics of the micro wind
energy converter using fly wings are examined. The airfoils of energy
converter are Diptera insect wings. It is confirmed that the output signals
reach hundreds of mV. The power generation characteristics of the micro
wind energy converter with ABS resin wings are also examined. The size
of artificial wing is almost equal to the insect wing. It is found that the mi-
cro wind energy converter using insect wings shows higher output voltage
compared with artificial wings.
Key words. Insect Wing, Wing Morphology, Micro Wind Energy Con-
verter, Permanent Magnet, Magnetic Fluid
1 Introduction
There has been increasing interest recently in micromachines and microro-
bots. With the critical development in micromachining technology and
Micro Electro Mechanical System (MEMS) technology, the applications of
miniaturized and ultraminiaturized components and devices have been rap-
idly increasing (Esashi 2002; Higuchi 2003). Therefore, micromachines
307

--- Page 310 ---
308
and microrobots might become realistic in a few years. Actually, several
microrobots have been proposed. There is biomimetic approach in one of
several approaches (Shimoyama 1994). Biomimetics can essentially be de-
fined as the practice of ‘reverse engineering’ ideas and concepts from na-
ture and implementing them in a field of technology. Authors also pro-
posed the micro magnetic swimming mechanism propelled by the
alternating magnetic field in a water pipe (Sudo et al. 2003). This swim-
ming machine imitates bacterium behavior. In general, lifetime that the
microrobot can be driven with the battery is reduced with a decrease in the
robot size. The energy that can be stored in its battery is proportional to its
volume. Therefore, energy to drive microrobots will be supplied from an
internal battery and the external energy source (Shimoyama 1996). On the
other hand, the living things have been evolving for a long time naturally
and selectively. The locomotive organs of animals are the products of two
very potent optimizing processes, the processes of evolution by natural se-
lection and learning by experience (Alexander 1984). Extensive investiga-
tions on the locomotive mechanisms of a great many animals such as birds,
fish, flying insects and others have been conducted and reported (Azuma
1992). Authors have also studied detailed wing morphology of same types
of insects with a scanning electron microscope, and analyzed the free flight
of a wasp with a three dimensional motion analysis system (Sudo et al.
1999, 2000, 2005). Those studies revealed that insect wings have superior
aerodynamic characteristics.
In this paper, novel type of micro wind energy converter using insect
wings is proposed. In the first place, the surface roughness of Diptera in-
sect wing is measured by a three-dimensional, optical shape measuring
system, and insect wing is observed using a scanning electron microscope.
Secondly, the micro wind energy converter using Diptera insect wings is
constructed, and then the power generation characteristics of the micro
wind energy converter are examined. It is revealed that the output voltage
from the micro energy converter reaches hundreds of mV.
2 Experimental Apparatus and Procedures
2.1 Observation of Insect Wings
The surface shape of insect wings was measured by the three-dimensional,
optical shape measuring system. This measuring system is composed of an
automatic focus microscope with a laser beam driving servomechanism

--- Page 311 ---
309
and the high accuracy XY-stage. In this experiment, test insect wings are
Diptera wings. The test insect wing was severed from the insect body be-
fore the measurement and mounted on the XY-stage. When the laser beam
impinges on the surface of the test wing, a diffused or scattered reflection
occurs. The scattered light reflection is then focused through an objective
lens on a unique semiconductor sensor. The output signal from the
photodetector gives the position of the measured surface relative to the
gage probe. A three-dimensional measurement of the wing was made by
scanning of the XY-stage. A schematic diagram of the measuring device is
shown in Fig. 1. Microscopic observations of test insect wing were con-
ducted using a scanning electron microscope. The sample wings were
coated with gold by the ion sputtering method for conductivity. The test
insects were collected from fields in Yurihonjo, Japan.
Monitor TV
UCM-1000A ReV
Vertical Lighting
System
SLFI-1SOT
AMP
AF Sensor
CCD 
Camera
ICD-700D¢
Taser 
' 
TT 
FFI 
/
Beam 
4 
: 
Analyzer
1 
ily 
CF-350 
Optical
— 
i! 
AF Controller 
Displacement
+ — —4 
MAF98 
Detector
Z 
L 
=
7 
33 
aser
Cts 
Beam
| 
AF Driving
i 
Mechanism 
Metal Halide Lamp
}+— —4 
HVC-SI
Y
Objective 
I 
pan 
Z Axis Stage
X
ample
XYZ 
Controller
MD-38
XY 
Axes 
XY Stage
Indicator ND 920 | XY Linear Scale
Personal 
Computer
DIMENSION XPS D300
High Speed
Video Camera
Fig. 1. Block diagram of experimental 
Fig. 2. Block diagram of experimental
apparatus for surface shape measure- 
apparatus for flapping analysis
ment
2.2 Analysis of Insect Flapping and Measurement of Skeleton
Vibration
Figure 2 shows a schematic diagram of the experimental apparatus for
flapping analysis of insects. Experiment on insect flapping was conducted
with a high speed video camera system. The experimental system is com-
posed of a high speed video camera, video cassette recorder, video moni-
tor, and a personal computer. In the experiment, a live insect was stuck on
the wooden needle with the adhesive as shown in Fig. 2. The flapping be-

--- Page 312 ---
310
havior of insect is recorded by the high speed camera. A series of frames
of flapping behavior were analyzed by the personal computer. After the
flapping behavior of the insect was recorded, the displacement of the exo-
skeleton vibration was measured by the optical displacement detector sys-
tem. The displacement signals were analyzed by the dual channel fast Fou-
rier transform (FFT) analyzer. The flapping frequency of test insect was
decided by frequency analysis.
3 Flapping Characteristics of Diptera Insects
3.1 Wing of Diptera Insects
The flapping frequency of test insect is decided by frequency analysis.
Winged insects have the superior ability to fly by wing flapping. Most in-
sects have two pairs of wings, but Diptera insects have only one pair. Be-
fore the experiments, some morphological parameters of insect wings were
measured. Figure 3 shows the relationship between the body length Z and
the total wing area S for several kinds of insects. It can be seen from Fig. 3
that the wing area S increases in proportion to the square of the body
length L.
S=el? 
(1)
where c; is the proportional constant. In Fig. 3, the sign A shows Diptera
insects. Insect wings are different from the wings of aircrafts. The surface
of insect wings is not smooth. The surface roughness of Diptera insect
wing was measured by the three-dimensional, optical shape measuring sys-
tem. In the measurement, only the upper surface of the insect wing was
measured. Figure 4 shows the three-dimensional display of measurement
result for the right wing of the gadfly Tabanus rufidens. Most insect wings
are composed of veins and membranes that are identical on the upper and
under surfaces. The ups and downs shown in Fig. 4 formed along the
veins, and the difference of elevation is especially remarkable between the
longitudinal veins. The corrugated wing acts as several functions for the
insect flight (Sudo et al. 1999).
In this study, microscopic observations of wing surface of Diptera in-
sects were also conducted using a scanning electron microscope. Figure 5
shows an example of the scanning electron micrograph of wing surface of
the robber fly Promachus yesonicus Bigot. Robber flies are common,
swift-flying predators. They have three ocelli and a beard face of distinct

--- Page 313 ---
311
setae around the stout and pointed proboscis. They feed on other flies, es-
pecially deer flies and horse flies, as well as flying ants, small bees, true
bugs, grasshoppers, butterflies, and moths. They are extremely versatile
flier. It can be seen from Fig. 5 that Diptera wing is clothed in minute
hairs. Minute hairs are characteristics for insects with a high wing beat fre-
quency, and most of hairs on the surface of wing are tilted. These hairs ful-
fill the function as the drag reduction riblets (Sudo et al. 2000).
In this paper, novel type of micro wing energy converter using Diptera
wings is proposed. Diptera wings are suitable as the air foils of micro wind
energy converter for the above-mentioned reasons.
<10*
T
Cephonodes hylas
T
S [m2]
L Vespa mandarinia japonica 
Right wing of 
a gadfly
Tabanus rufidens
Xylocopa appendiculata circumvolans
Callopistria japonibia 
>
S=o 7?
x
Vespa simillima xanthoptera
Bombus diversus diversus|
Tabanus trigonus
. 
e
Lucilia caesar 
Cophinopoda chinensis
o
L
/
16.76 mm
15.84 mm
° 
Tachina nupta
Apis mellifera
0.02 
0.03 
0.04
L{m]
Fig. 3. Relationship between the body
length and the total wing area of in-
sects
PU) 
[dBV] 
»
Fig. 5. Scanning electron micro-
graph of the wing of robber fly,
Promachus yesonicus Bigot
=
Fig. 4. Three-dimensional description
of the surface shape measurement for
the wing of gadfly, Tabanus rufidens
T 
T 
T 
T 
T
Gadfly
L=18.8mm
Tabanus triogonus
1000 
2000
f [Hz]
T 
T
4 
4
0.1 
t 
fs}
Fig. 6. Extrinsic skeleton vibration during
the flapping motion of the gadfly, Tabanus
triogonus

--- Page 314 ---
312
3.2 Flapping Frequency of Gadfly
Generally, winged insects produce aerodynamic force by flapping their
wings and fly in the air (Brodsky 1994). The airflow over a wing generates
forces of lift and drag which combine to create a resultant force. Lift is a
component normal to the wing, and drag is a component parallel to the
wing. Lift F; and Drag Fp are described as follows;
1 
2 
2
fy, =5orPUo Sa 
( )
i 
3
Fp = 5 Cope Sa 
( )
where p is the density of air, Up is the velocity of airflow, and S, is the
wing area. C;, and Cp are lift and drag coefficients. These coefficients de-
pend on the angle of attack. The velocity at each place of the wing is dif-
ferent, because the insect flaps around the wing root. The fact shows that
insect wing is appropriate for the airfoil of micro energy converter, The ve-
locity Up depends on the size and the flapping frequency of insect wing,
and it relates to the characteristics of micro energy converter. Therefore,
the flapping frequency of the gadfly was measured by the optical dis-
placement detector system as shown in Fig. 2. Figure 6 shows an example
of the output signal from the optical displacement detector. The lower fig-
ure in Fig. 6 corresponds to the extrinsic skeleton vibration during the
flapping motion of the gadfly, Tabanus triogonus. The upper figure shows
the power spectrum of the extrinsic skeleton vibration. The power spec-
trum has a sharp peak. The dominant frequency agrees with the flapping
frequency of the gadfly. It was observed that the flapping frequency of
gadfly depends on the size, and /; = 80 ~ 100 Hz. In general, the flapping
frequency of insects is described as follows;
i
pekm 
(4)
where K is the proportional constant and m is the insect mass. The propor-
tional constant depends on each order of flying insects, that is, it depends
on the flight mechanism for the generation of aerodynamic forces. The
flapping velocity at the wing tip of insect can be obtained from Eq. (5).
Uz=al 
(5)

--- Page 315 ---
313
where w is the angular flapping frequency, / is the wing length of insect.
The flapping velocity of the gadfly is U = 9.4 m/s for 
f, = 100 Hz and /=
15 mm. Therefore, it is necessary to use the micro energy converter using
gadfly wings in the area of the airflow velocity under Up = 9.4 m/s.
4 Caracteristics of Micro Wind Energy Converter
4.1 Composition and Principle
The micro energy converter which converted the airflow energy into elec-
tric energy was constructed in this paper. The micro energy converter is
composed of the Diptera insect wings, NdFeB permanent magnet, mag-
netic fluid, and the coil. The length of gadfly wing was about 15 mm.
Three insect wings were bounded to the shaft with the angle of 2 7/3 as
shown in Fig. 7. The permanent magnet is columnar of 5 mm outside di-
ameter and 5 mm height. Table 1 shows the physical properties of NdFeB
permanent magnet used in the experiment, and Table 2 shows the magnetic
properties of the magnetic material. It can be seen from Table 2 that the
permanent magnet has excellent magnetic characteristics. Magnetic fluid
was adsorbed by the permanent magnet. Table 3 shows the physical prop-
erties of kerosene-based magnetic fluid (ferricolloid HC-50) used in the
experiment. In general, the permanent magnet encompassed with magnetic
fluid is suspended in the fluid (Rosensweig 1985). This kind of phenome-
non is called “self-levitation”. The phenomenon of self-levitation occurs
when a permanent magnet is immersed in magnetic fluid. Figure 8 shows a
short columnar magnet stably suspending itself in magnetic fluid. In Fig. 8,
Vin is the volume of magnetic fluid, and g is the gravitational acceleration.
The permanent magnet, which it nearly six times as dense as the fluid, is
seen hovering above the acrylic plastic base. Self-levitation of a permanent
magnet in magnetic fluid is attributed to the magnetic force;
F,, = Vip M, AH, 
(6)
where V is the volume of magnet, so is the permeability of free space, M,,
is the intensity of magnetization, and H,, is the magnetic field. The shaft
that bonded three insect wings was bounded to the permanent magnet.
When the insect wings receive the air flow, self-levitating magnet in mag-
netic fluid can rotate very easily, because the magnetic fluid plays the role
of excellent lubrication. The energy converter has the coil as shown in Fig.

--- Page 316 ---
314
7. Faraday’s law shows that a current can be produced by a changing mag-
netic field. A current is set up in the circuit as long as there is relative mo-
tion (rotational motion of the magnet) between the magnet and the coil.
The electromotive force (emf) induced in a circuit is directly proportional
to the time rate of change of magnetic flux through the circuit. It can be
written as follows;
_ 90 
(7)
ot
where @ is the magnetic flux threading the circuit, which can be ex-
pressed as follows;
© = | Byds 
(8)
where B, is the normal component of magnetic flux density, and ds is
small area. The permanent magnet used in the experiment has higher mag-
netic flux density, even if it is small. If the circuit is a coil consisting of n
loops all of the same area and if the flux threads all loops, the induced emf
is
aw 
(9)
z[mm]
4b 
V,,=10 * 10° m*
Permanent magnet
Insect wing
Coil (7 = 2000) 
Magnetic fluid
Magnetic fluid
y[mm]
Acrylonitrile butadiene
styrene resin container
Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resin shaft 
Unit: mm
Acrylic plastic base 
“sl
Fig. 7. Outline diagram of micro wind 
Fig. 8. Free surface shape of magnetic
energy converter with insect wings 
fluid encapsulated permanent magnet
Table 1. Physical properties of permanent magnet
Permanent magnet 
Nd>Fe,,B
Temperature coefficient 
0.12 %/°C
Density 
7300-7500 kg/m?
Curie temperature 
310°C
Vickers hardness 
HV 500-600

--- Page 317 ---
Table 2. Magnetic characteristics of permanent magnet
Residual magnetic flux density | Br (T) 
1.62-1.33
Coercive force 
bHC 
(kA/m) 
859-970
Coercive force 
iHC (kA/m) 
>955
Maximum energy product 
(BH)max (kJ/m*) | 302-334
Table 3. Physical properties of magnetic fluid
315
Magnetic fluid 
Ferricolloid HC-50
Density 
1250 kg/m?
Viscosity 
9mPas
Saturation magnetization 
32 kA/m
Surface tension 
0.0277 N/m
Leading edge 
Insect wing 
Trailing edge
as
Uy
Fig. 9. Definition of the angle of attack o for the airflow Up
The installation angle of the insect wing to the shaft influences the rota-
tional characteristics (lift characteristics) of the micro energy converter. In
this experiment, the insect wing was bounded to the shaft for the airflow at
the angle of attack a. In general, the resultant of two forces of lift and
drag depends on the angle of attack a . The definition of the angle of at-
tack @ for the insect wing is shown in Fig. 9.
The micro energy converter with artificial wings made of the acryloni-
trile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) resin was also produced. The artificial wing
with the same shape as the insect wing was produced by Dimension 3D
Printer. In the experiment, two converters with real insect wings and artifi-
cial insect wings were compared for power generation characteristics.
4.2 Power Generation Characteristics
First the power generation characteristics of the micro wind energy con-
verter with insect wings were examined. Secondly the power generation
characteristics of the micro energy converter with ABS resin wings were
examined. Thirdly, two converters were compared for power generation
characteristics.

--- Page 318 ---
316
500 
— 
t 
350 
out 
r
Vi=5x10%m 
a= 
/4 rad 
V=5 10" 
m
_300F 
U,=6.2 mis
250 
a= 
/4 rad
=200
400+ 
U,=6.3 m/s 
4
E [mV]
nV
200 
150
100
soH
0 
OH}
SOR
-100
-150
I
-300- 
4
3004 
-200
-250--
t{s] 
t{s]
Fig. 10. Output signal from the micro 
Fig. 11. Output signal from the micro
energy converter with insect wings 
energy converter with artificial wings
Figure 10 shows the output signal from the energy converter with Dip-
tera insect wings subjected to the airflow of Up = 6.3 m/s. The angle of at-
tack a in Fig. 10 is the installation angle of the insect wing to the shaft. In
a general aircraft wing, the lift-drag ratio depends on the angle of attack.
As the angle of attack rises, lift initially increases faster than drag so the
lift-drag ratio is 
a maximum at an angle of attack of about 5 degrees.
Thereafter, drag increases rapidly and, at an angle of attack of about 15
degrees, the aerofoil stalls. This effect is explained by a separation of the
flow on the upper surface of the aerofoil (Wegener 1996). However, the
insect wings do not stall during their flight, even if insects flap at higher
angle of attack. The effective angle of attack of insect wing in the micro
energy converter varies according to rotation of the runners. These facts
show the insect wings are suitable for the micro wind energy converter at
lower Reynolds number flow. It can be seen from Fig. 10 that the output
voltage E exceeds 200 mV. The output signal vibrates to the positive and
negative. This vibration corresponds to the rotation of the magnet. As be-
fore, when the magnet is rotated toward the stationary conducting loop, a
cutrent is induced. The variation of the amplitude in the output signal is
observed in Fig. 10. This phenomenon occurs due to no completely same
size of the insect wings. The different aerodynamic moments M act on
each insect wing.
M = ; pURC, Sac 
(10)
where C,, is the pitching moment coefficient, and c is the chord length. The
imbalance of the angular moment generates the variation of the amplitude.
Figure 11 shows the output signal from the energy converter with ABS
resin artificial wings. The signal shows a steady output compared with the

--- Page 319 ---
317
insect wings. Three artificial wings are the complete same sizes. Therefore,
there is no imbalance of the angular moment on the micro energy con-
verter. However, the output voltage is lower compared with the insect
wing converter. This fact shows that the lift generation function of Diptera
wing is excellent. Figure 12 shows the comparison of the frequencies of
the output signals. The frequencies for the micro energy converter with in-
sect wings show higher values at the constant airflow velocity. Faraday’s
law of induction shows that the emf induced in a circuit is directly propor-
tional to the time rate of change of magnetic flux through the circuit.
Therefore, the micro energy converter with insect wings has excellent
characteristics for power generation. This fact shows the importance of
minute morphology of the corrugated wing with minute hairs.
50 
r 
T 
T 
T 
v 
T 
¥ 
¥
—_ 
© Insect wing
S457 @ ABs resin wing 
rel 
7
TM40b 
4
°
35h 
4
q 
° 
4
30 
-4
L 
@
25+ 
° 
4
J 
e 
i
20F 
4
1S- 
bd 
4
. 
*
10k 
4
57 
¥,2Sx10%m a=nidrad 
|]
i. 
4 
a 
i 
i. 
i
0 
2 
4 
6 
g 
10
Uy [m/s]
Fig. 12. Uniform airflow velocity Uy versus frequency of output signal f
5 Conclusions
Flapping characteristics of Diptera insects were studied using the optical
displacement detector system, and the structural design of Diptera insect
wings was studied using the three-dimensional optical shape measuring
system and the scanning electron microscope. Furthermore, the micro wind
energy converter using Diptera insect wings were constructed, and the
power generation characteristics of the energy converter were examined.
The results obtained are summarized as follows;
1. The flapping frequency of gadfly Tabanus triogonus depends on their
size, and it is in the area from about 80 Hz to 100 Hz.
2. Diptera wings are corrugated and clothed in minute hairs. Minute
hairs are tilted.

--- Page 320 ---
318
3. The micro wind energy converter composed of Diptera insect wings,
permanent magnet, magnetic fluid, and coil outputs the voltage of
hundreds of mV.
4. The frequency of the output signal from the micro wind energy con-
verter increases with the velocity of uniform airflow.
5. The frequencies for the micro energy converter with Diptera wings
show higher values at the constant airflow velocity compared with the
converter with ABS resin artificial wings.
References
Alexander RM (1984) The Gails of Bipedal and Quadrupedal Animals. Int J Rob
Rese 3:49-59
Azuma A (1992) The Biokinetics of Flying and Swimming. Springer-Verlag, New
York
Brodsky AK (1994) The Evolution of Insect Fight. Oxford Science Publications,
New York
Esashi M (2002) Micromachines. Sngyo Gijutsu Service Center, Tokyo (in Japa-
nese)
Higuchi T (2003) Micromachine Technologies. Sangyo Gijutsu Service Center,
Tokyo, 
(in Japanese)
Rosensweig RE (1985) Ferrohydrodynamics. Cambridge University Press, New
York
Shimoyama | (1994) Artificial Insect. J Jpn Soc Mech Engn 97:60-63 (in Japa-
nese)
Shimoyama I (1996) Scale Effects in Microrobots. J] Robotic Soc Japan 14:1106—
1108 (in Japanese)
Sudo S, Tsuyuki K, Ikohagi T, Ohta F, Shida S, Tani J (1999) A Study on the
Wing Structure and Flapping Behavior of a Dragonfly. JSME Int J 42:721-
729
Sudo S, Tsuyuki K, Tani J (2000) Wing Morphology of Some Insects. JSME Int J
43:895~-900
Sudo S, Tsuyuki K, Ite Y, Tani J (2001) The Wing Apparatus and Flapping Be-
havbior of Hymenoptera. JSME Int J 44:1103—1110
Sudo S, Segawa S, Honda T (2003) Frequency Dependence of Locomotive Veloc-
ity of Magnetic Micro Machine. J JSEM 3:235-241 (in Japanese)
Sudo 8, Takaki Y, Hashiguchi Y, Nishiyama H (2005) Magnetic Fluid Devices for
Driving Micro Machines. JSME Int J 48:464-470
Sudo S, Tsuyuki K, Kanno K (2005) Wing Characteristics and Flapping Behavior
of Flying Insects. Exp Mech 45:550-555
Wegener PP (1996) What Makes Airplanes Fly?. Springer-Verlag, New York

--- Page 321 ---
Chapter 26
Clapping-wing Micro Air Vehicle of Insect Size
Yoshiyuki Kawamura’, Satoshi Souda’, Satoshi Nishimoto,
and Charles P. Ellington’
' Department of Intelligent Mechanical Engineering
Faculty of Engineering, Fukuoka Institute of Technology, Japan
* Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, UK
Summary. The efficiencies for generating the axial thrust and the lift of a flapping
wing micro air vehicle (MAV) were increased by clapping the wings together,
using the “Weis Fogh clap and fling mechanism” from studies on the aerodynam-
ics of the insect flight. Making use of this effect, we have succeeded in the devel-
opment and the flight of an insect-size clapping wing MAV. The span and the
weight were 10cm and 2.3g, respectively, which are very close to those of the
hawkmoth (Manduca sexta), and amongst the smallest and the lightest ever built.
The flight characteristics of the clapping MAV were similar to those of the hawk-
moth. These results are the first step towards MAVs that mimic insects at lower
Reynolds numbers.
Key words. MAV, Micro Air Vehicle, Flapping, Clapping, Insect, Hawkmoth
1 Introduction
Since the success in powered flight by the Wright brothers in 1903, human beings
have mainly been developing flight technologies in order to obtain faster and lar-
ger aircraft, characterized as air vehicles with large Reynolds numbers. Recently,
owing to advances in production technologies relating to the semiconductor indus-
try, especially to those of cell phones and personal computers, essential technolo-
gies for making a micro air vehicle (MAV) have advanced dramatically, such as
small and lightweight powerful micro motors, micro computers and batteries with
large capacity.
In parallel with this progress, the reason why insects can create large lift
forces has been studied (Weis-Fogh 1973). The lift cannot be explained by
conventional aerodynamic theory applied to fixed wings, and the generation of a
spiral leading edge vortex at low Reynolds numbers was found to play an impor-
tant role (Ellington 1996, Johansson 2003, Dickinson 1999 and Fry 2003),. Nu-
merical calculations (Isogai 1999, Lian 2005) as well as theoretical analyses (Fl-
lington 1999) have been performed to investigate the possibility for developing
flapping MAVs of insect size.
Recently, we have succeeded in the fabrication and the flight of an insect size
flapping MAV, making use of “Weis Fogh clap and fling mechanism” (Weis-Fogh
319

--- Page 322 ---
320
1973). It has a span of 10 cm and a weight of 2.3 g, which are very close to the
values of the hawkmoth (Manduca sexta) (Willmott 1997A, Willmott 1997B),
which has been studied extensively. The flight characteristics of this flapping
MAV were also compared with those of the hawkmoth.
2 Flight with high angle of attack
Fig. 1 shows the experimental facilities for measuring vertical force applied on the
wings as a function of the angle of attack of the body for various flapping fre-
quencies and wind velocities. 
The total span of the machine is 15 cm, and the
flapping motion is driven by a DC power supply. The diameter of the exit of the
wind tunnel is 25 cm. The vertical force force, which is perpendicular to the wind
velocity, was measured by an electric balance with a resolution of 0.01 g. Flapping
frequency was changed from 0 Hz to 20 Hz and was measured optically without
contact. The flapping angle was +23 degrees. Angle of attack was set from 0 de-
gree to 40 degrees. The wind velocity was changed from 0 m/s to 5m/s.
Fig. 2 shows the vertical force for various angles of attack and frequencies.
Fig. 2(A) shows the lift for a flapping frequency of 0 Hz. In this case, the flapping
angle was fixed to be 0 degrees, and the wing angle of attack of 20 degrees, the
lift drops suddenly for all velocities, which is considered to be the stall. Fig. 2 (B)
and (C) show the vertical force applied on the wings for flapping frequencies of 10
Hz and 20 Hz, respectively, where stall does not appear up to the angle of attack of
40 degrees.
These experimental results show that the flapping motion of the wings de-
presses the stall up to large angles of attack, keeping the lift coefficient high and
leading to the possibility of quasi-hovering flight of a flapping MAV with large
angle of attack.
Fig. 1. Experimental setup for measuring the vertical force at various angles of at-
tack of the body and flapping frequencies.

--- Page 323 ---
321
—k- 
5 m/s
4 m/s
—8-3 m/s
ty 
2 m/s
—>-1 m/s
-—O-0 m/s
(A)
vertical 
force 
(g)
Lt 
it 
tt
0 
10 
20 
30 
40
angle of attack (dee.)
Qo 
= 
NM 
& 
& 
Ch 
OD 
4! 
OO 
© 
©
—~hk- 5 m/s
4 
m/s
—W-3 m/s
—e-2 m/s
hoe Lon /s
—-0 m/s
(B)
vertical 
force 
(g)
o~ 
NN 
© 
B&B 
OF 
OD 
“MO 
© 
©
I"
Al
m
0 
10 
20 
30 
40
angle of attack (deg.)
woh
°o
~k- 
5 m/s
—~@-4 m/s
~#-3 m/s
(C)
vertical 
force 
(g)
ry ne Se
10 
20 
39 
40
angle of attack (deg.)
oO 
-“~ 
NN 
&® 
FF 
OF 
DO 
~~ 
© 
©
oO €)
Fig. 2. Vertical force of the flapping wings as a function of angle of attack for
various wind velocities. Flapping frequencies of (A), (B) and (C) are 0 Hz, 10 Hz
and 20 Hz, respectively.

--- Page 324 ---
322
(A) 
(B)
thrus,_T 0
WT
a
in
\\
7s
(C)
Fig. 3. (A) Flapping machine with one pair of wings (normal type). (B) Flapping
machine with two pairs of X-like intersecting wings (clapping type). (C) Experi-
mental apparatus for the measurement of axial thrust.
3 Improvement in thrust generation by clapping wings in hovering flight
Some types of insects (e.g. butterflies, moths and tiny insects) use a “clap and
fling” wing motion, where the wings clap together at the highest position of the
stroke and sometimes at the lowest position. These insects produce, on average,
25% more force per unit flight muscle mass than others (Marden 1987). The most
common variation of this motion is the “near or partial clap and fling”, where the
wings come very close together but may not actually touch, or do so only in distal
regions. Hawkmoths such as Manduca sexta show this variation.
We investigated the possibility of increasing force by introducing a clapping
motion of the wings. We made two types of flapping machine for comparison.

--- Page 325 ---
323
One has two normal wings as shown in Fig. 3 (A), and the other has four X-like
wings which are composed of two pairs of wings intersecting with each other as
shown in Fig. 3( B). “Delfly”, which is Remote control flapping MAV having a
span of 35 cm and the weight of 17 g, used this type of wings, and has been suc-
ceeded in realizing vibration-free flight of the ornithopter at Delft University of
Technology in Nederland.
i)
>
on
-€) 
clapping type 
0
A~ normal type
| 
——normal type X 2
thrust 
(g)
Cel 
nN 
oe
—~ 
FN 
& 
© 
OF
°
wn
°
0 
5 
10 
15 
20
flapping frequency (Hz)
Fig. 4. Comparison of the axial thrust produced by the normal type (open trian-
gles) and the clapping type (open squares) models. The thick solid line shows the
doubled values of those for the normal type. The thrust for clapping is about 40%
higher than the doubled values for the normal type.
oon
en
ooeo°o
aH 
A O&O 
©
-C- clapping type
~t~ normal type
ooos
mm ND 
bo
thrust/mechanical 
power 
(a.u.)
Q
>
©
©
5 
10 
15
flapping frequency (Hz)
Fig. 5. Ratio of thrust to mechanical power as a function of the flapping frequency
for the clapping (open squares) and normal (open triangles) types of machines.

--- Page 326 ---
324
For both types, the span and maximum chord were 20 cm and 5 cm, respec-
tively. For the normal type, the flapping angle was ©25 degrees, which corre-
sponds to a stroke angle of 50 degrees, although for the clapping type, the flapping
angle was +50 degrees, which corresponds to a stroke angle of 100 degrees.
Whereas the clapping does not occur in the case of the normal type, it occurs once
a cycle at both sides of the wings in the other. Each wing is comprised of a carbon
rod driven by a DC motor through a linkage, and a thin plastic film attached to the
carbon rod. The experimental setup is shown in Fig.3 C. The experiments were
performed in still air to measure the axial thrust of the flapping wings, which pro-
vides the essential vertical force for hovering flight when the body axis becomes
vertical.
In order to extract the net increase in axial thrust due to the “clapping effect”,
compensating for the difference in the total number of wings between these two
models, the thrust produced by the clapping model was compared with double the
value produced by the normal model. As is shown in Fig. 4, the thrust produced
by the former is about 40% larger than twice the thrust produced by two wings on
the normal model. The increase in the thrust can be considered to be due to the
“Weis Fogh clap and fling mechanism” (Weis-Fogh, 1973).
In order to investigate the figure of merit for the thrust generation, we ana-
lyzed the ratio of the thrust to the product of the flapping frequency and the cur-
rent of the DC motor. The flapping frequency is proportional to the angular veloc-
ity of the DC motor, and the current is proportional to the output torque of the
motor. Therefore, their product is proportional to the mechanical power generated
by the motor, and the ratio of the thrust to this product represents the figure of
merit for the thrust generation. (The product of the voltage applied to the motor
and the current was not used to calculate the mechanical power, because the motor
efficiency changes depending on the operating condition of the motor.) Fig.5
shows that the experimental results for clapping wings have figure of merits 2 to 3
times higher than those for normal wings, which is qualitatively consistent with
the results for real insects (Marden 1987).
4 Improvement in lift generation by clapping wings in level flight
The figure of merit for level flight was also investigated by realizing the force bal-
ance in level flight for both types of flapping machine. The resultant vertical force
(Lift+ Thrust X sin 8) and the resultant horizontal force (Drag + Thrust X cos
@) acting on the flapping machine were measured by a pair of load cells, as
shown in Fig. 6. The velocity of the wind tunnel was adjusted so that the horizon-
tal component of axial thrust balanced the drag, making the resultant horizontal
force zero. By this adjustment, the force balance for level flight at the flight veloc-
ity equivalent to the velocity of the wind tunnel could be realized. The flapping
frequency was 10 Hz, and the angle of attack of the body ranged from 0 degree to
40 degrees.
The wind velocities to realize level flight are shown in Fig.7. Over the total range
of the angle of attack, the wind velocities for clapping wings were lower than

--- Page 327 ---
325
those for normal wings, meaning that the clapping machine flies at a slower veloc-
ity than the normal wing motion.
—____ 
thrust, T
wind velocity, U
=
N 
load cell
_J|-I (horizontal)
load cell (vertical) [ C=) 
]
fa
Fig. 6. Experimental setup for realizing the force balance of flight finding the
wind velocity where the resultant horizontal force on the flapping machine is zero.
—t- clapping type
~~ normal type
i
+
Len
ry
a
ad
flight 
velocity 
(m/s)
Nn
0 
10 
20 
30 
40
angle of attack (deg.)
Fig. 7.Wind velocities corresponding to level flight with zero resultant horizontal
force as a function of angle of attack for the clapping (open squares) and the nor-
mal (open triangles) types of wings.

--- Page 328 ---
326
1
_ 
—O clapping type
3 
4 normal type
oo
“ 3
2e
Sa
= 0
ter
>=
°o
o
=
~
oO 
1 
i
0 
10 
20 
30 
40
angle of attack (deg.)
Fig. 8. Ratio of the vertical force to the mechanical power as a function of the an-
gle of attack for the clapping (open squares) and normal (open triangle) wings.
The former is approximately 2 times higher than the latter.
Fig. 8 shows the ratio of the resultant vertical force to the product of the
flapping frequency and the current of the DC motor as a function of the angle of
attack for the both types of wings. For angles of attack higher than 20 degrees, the
ratios for clapping wings were larger than those for normal wings by about 1.5
times.
5 Flight of clapping wing MAV
The results described in sections 3 and 4 show the advantages of intersecting X-
like wings for an insect-size flapping MAV in order to obtain higher vertical force
and thrust given the limited output power of a DC motor. We therefore designed
and fabricated a clapping wing MAV with a wingspan of 10 cm and a weigh of 2.3
g, which are almost the same as those of the hawkmoth (Willmott 1997A, and
Willmott 1997B), and amongst the smallest and lightest ever built.
Fig. 9 shows the clapping wing MAV that we have developed; the side view is
shown in Fig, 10A. We used intersecting X-like wings, consisting of two pairs of
wings driven by a common crank shaft through a pair of conrods. The linkage was
designed so that these two pairs of wings clap at the bottom of the stroke (Fig.
10B) and at the peak of the stroke (Fig. 10C): i.e. two claps in each stroke cycle.
The stroke angle was 50 degrees for each wing pair, and therefore 100 degrees for
the combined wing motion. The clapping wing MAV has hori zontal and vertical
tail fins ike conventional airplanes. The motor current and the rudder are con-
trolled remotely by an infrared transceiver system. A typical value of the flapping
frequency necessary for hovering was about 35 Hz.

--- Page 329 ---
327
Fig.9. Clapping wing MAV of insect size with a span of 10 cm and a weight of 2.3
g.
(A)ae 
a
(B)
Fig. 10 (A) Side view of the clapping wing MAV of insect size. (B) Front view
when it claps at the side position of the stroke. (C) Front view when it claps at the
highest position of the flapping stroke.

--- Page 330 ---
328
Table 1. Comparisons of the specifications between the wing clapping MAV and
the Hawkmoth.
wing clapping MAV 
Hawkmoth 'ul'¢)
wingspan 
10cm 
10cm
aspect ratio 
4 
4.8
weight 
2.32 
18¢
flapping frequency 
35 Hz 
25 Hz
stroke amplitude 
100 degrees" 
110 degrees
number of wings 
4 sheets 
2 sheets
(*: total stroke angle generated be two wings clapping with each other, **: aver-
aged value between hovering and level flight)
Table 2. Comparisons of the flight characteristics between the wing clapping
MAV and the hawkmoth. (Figures in the table represent the relative increases or
decreases measured in case of the hovering flight to the values measured in case of
the level flight.)
wing clapping MAV 
Hawkmoth |!9!('¢)
stroke plane angle
30 degrees down 
35degrees down
a
que ping 
5 % increase 
no change
requency
stroke 
mechanically fixed 
15% increase
amplitude
The flight tests were performed in still air inside a gymnasium. The position
of the center of gravity of the clapping wing MAV was adjusted by changing the
position of the battery. A tendency towards level flight was observed when the
center of gravity was moved forward, and towards hovering when it was moved
rearward, 
For hovering flight, the flapping frequency was increased slightly
above that for level flight.
The flapping motion of the wings made it possible for the MAV to move on a
rough surface, such as a thick carpet, and even to take off from it. This is an addi-
tional advantage of flapping wings in comparison to fixed wing designs.
6 Comparisons with the hawkmoth
The specifications of the clapping wing MAV and hawkmoth are compared in Ta-
ble 1. 
There are many similarities between these two except for the number of
wings.
Whereas our clapping wing MAV changes the flight mode between level-flight

--- Page 331 ---
329
and hovering by moving the position of the center of gravity, hawkmoths change it
by shifting the wing motion forward and rearward (Willmott,1997A). When
changing from level flight to hovering, the stroke plane angle decreases about 30
degrees for the MAV, while it decreases 35 degrees for the Hawkmoth (Will-
mott,1997A). The stroke amplitude of our clapping wing MAV does not change,
because the wings are driven by a fixed mechanical linkage, while that of the
hawkmoth increases by 15 % (Willmott,1997A). 
However, the increase in the
flapping frequency of the MAV was about 5%, whereas the hawkmoth does not
show a significant change (Willmott,1997A). (It is difficult, in general, for insects
to change their flapping frequency because the wings are driven by a resonance
mechanism relating to the body construction.) These comparisons in flight charac-
teristics are summarized in Table 2.
1000000
a
100000 
+ 
Boeine 747
Zero 
(1969)
enter
10000 
+ 
41939)
1000 - 
Cessna
3 
unmanned = (1956)
100 
F 
ao4an, 
Flyer 
sm
S 
1943-) 
1903) /
10 
+
<= 
MA 
man powered
a: 
1 
fe aN 
aircraft (1979)
: 
\ 
Pigeons
01 
oO
our flapping oe 
« 
*
a 
“Delfly
o.o1 
| MAveonG) 
(2005)
0.001 
“8
" 
_ insects *” “Hawk
0.0001 
:
0.01 
01 
1 
10 
106
span length (m)
Fig. 11. Spans and weights of various aircraft in aviation history. Pigeons and
hawkmoths are also plotted for comparison. Our clapping wing MAV of insect
size has just entered into the boundary of the insect flight region
7 Summary
In Fig. 11, the span of various air vehicles is plotted against their weight .
Solid squares represent man-made vehicles, while the open squares represent
pigeons and hawkmoths for comparison with the clapping wing MAV. It can be
seen that our clapping wing MAV has just entered into the boundary of the insect
flight region. We think that the successful flight of our MAV showing similar
flight characteristics to a real insect should encourage studies on insect-mimicking
MAVs at lower Reynolds numbers.

--- Page 332 ---
330
Acknowledgements
This work is partially supported by the grant of Comprehensive Research Organi-
zation, Fukuoka Institute of Technology.
References
Weis-Fogh T (1973), Quick Estimates of Flight Fitness in Hovering Animals, In-
cluding Novel Mechanisms for Lift Production, J. exp. Biol, 59 169-230.
Ellington CP, van den Berg C, Willmott AP and Thomas ALR (1996), Leading-
edge vortices in insect flight, Nature, vol., 384 626-630.
Johansson LC and Norberg RA 
(2003), Delta-wing function of webbed feet
gives hydrodynamic lift for swimming propulsion in birds, Nature, 424 65-68.
Dickinson, M. H., Lehmann, F.O. and Sane, S. P. (1999), Wing Rotation and the
Aerodynamic Basis of Insect Flight Science, 284 1954-1960.
Fry SN, Sayaman R and Dickinson MH (2002), The Aerodynamics of Free-Flight
Maneuvers in Drosophila Science, 300 495-498
Isogai K and Shinmoto Y (1999), Effects of Dynamic Stall on Propulsive Effi-
ciency and Thrust of Flapping Airfoil AIAA Journal, 37, 1145-1151.
Lian Y and Shyy W (2005), Numerical Simulations of Membrane Wing Aerody-
namics for Micro Air Vehicle Applications, Journal of Aircraft, 42 865-873.
Ellington CP (1999), The novel aerodynamics of insect flight: applications to mi-
cro-air vehicles, Journal of Experimental Biology, 202, 3439-3448.
Willmott AP and Ellington CP (1997A), The mechanics of flight in the hawkmoth
Manduca sexta. I. Kinematics of hovering and forward flight, J. exp. Biol., 200
2705-2722.
Willmott AP and. Ellington CP (1997B), The mechanics of flight in the hawkmoth
Manduca sexta. II. Aerodynamic consequences of kinematic and morphological
variation,J. exp. Biol., 200 2723-2745.
Marden JH, Maximum lift production during takeoff in flying animal, J. exp. Biol.,
130, 235-258 (1987).

--- Page 333 ---
Part IV
Sports Science

--- Page 334 ---
Chapter 27
Study on the Application of Lagrangian
Numerical Simulation to Fluid Dynamics in
Sports Science
Kyoji Kamemoto’, Akira Ojima’, Satoshi Ido’, and Toshiharu Arai*
' Department of Mechanical Engineering, Yokohama National University,
79-5 Tokiwadai, Hodogaya-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 240-8501, Japan
* College Master Hands, Inc., 2-1-31 Midorigaoka, Zama, Kanagawa 228-
0021, Japan
> Toyota Motor Corporation, 1, Toyota-cho, Toyota, Aichi, 471-8571, Ja-
pan
“NTT Communications Corporation, 1-1-6 Uchisaiwaicho Chiyoda-ku,
Tokyo, 100-8019, Japan
Summary. This paper describes a pioneering work of practical application of an ad-
vanced vortex method in the field of fluid dynamics in sports science. The vortex
method developed by the present authors is one of vortex element methods based on
the Biot-Savart law, and it is known that the method provides a Lagrangian simulation
of unsteady and vortical flows. In this study, in order to examine the applicability of
the vortex method, three-dimensional, complex and unsteady flows around an isolated
100 m runner and a ski-jumper were calculated. 
Basic equations and mathematical
treatment of the method are explained in this paper, and calculation conditions and
panel data of deforming configuration of the athletes are described. As results of the
present study, vortical and unsteady flow features around a runner and a ski-jumper are
understood, and unsteady variation of aerodynamic forces corresponding to deforma-
tion of body configuration due to athletic motion are calculated. And, it is confirmed
that the advanced vortex element method is useful for the simulation of unsteady and
complex flows around dynamic bodies of athletes.
Key words. Fluid dynamics in sports science, Numerical simulation, Vortex method,
Runner, Ski-jumper
333

--- Page 335 ---
334
1 Introduction
In recent years, scientific research on sports technology becomes more important for
improvement of training methods which have been usually based on experiences of
athletes and their trainers. Especially, it is strongly expected in the sports concerning
in aerodynamics and hydrodynamics to investigate unsteady flows around the moving
body of an athlete in order to obtain scientific information of fluid forces acting on it.
On the other hand, the vortex methods have been developed and applied for analysis
of complex, unsteady and vortical flows in relation to problems in a wide range of in-
dustry, because they consist of simple algorithm based on physics of flow. Nowadays,
applicability of the vortex element methods has been developed and improved dra-
matically, and it has become encouragingly clear that the vortex methods have so
much interesting features that they provide easy-to-handle and completely grid-free
Lagrangian calculation of unsteady and vortical flows without use of any RANS type
turbulence models. Leonard (1980) summarized the basic algorithm and examples of
its applications. Sarpkaya (1989) presented a comprehensive review of various vortex
methods based on Lagrangian or mixed Lagrangian-Eulerian schemes, the Biot-Savart
law or the vortex in cell methods. Kamemoto (1995) summarized the mathematical
basis of the Biot-Savart law methods. Recently, Kamemoto (2004) reported several at-
tractive applications involving simulation of various kinds of unsteady flows with an
advanced vortex method, and Ojima and Kamemoto (2005) reported interesting results
of 
a study on numerical simulation of unsteady flows around a swimming fish by using
their vortex method.
As well as many finite difference methods, it is a crucial point in vortex methods
that the number of vortex elements should be increased when higher resolution of tur-
bulence structures is required, and then the computational time increases rapidly. In
order to reduce the operation count of evaluating the velocity at each particle through a
Biot-Savart law, fast N-body solvers, by which the operation count from O(N’) to O
(N log N) is reduced, have been proposed by Greengard et al. (1987). On the other
hand, in order to reduce the computational load in calculation of turbulence structures,
Fukuda and Kamemoto (2005) proposed an effective redistribution model of vortex
elements with consideration of convective motion and viscous diffusion in a three di-
mensional core-spreading model as a grid-free Lagrangian large eddy simulation .
In the present study, in order to examine the applicability of the vortex method de-
veloped to extend as a tool for a grid-free Lagrangian large eddy simulation by the pre-
sent authors to fluid dynamics in sports science, numerical simulation of three dimen-
sional, complex and unsteady flows around an isolated 100 m runner and a ski-jumper
were performed. From the numerical analyses, vortical flow characteristics around the
athletes and fluctuating aerodynamic forces of drag and lift have been investigated.

--- Page 336 ---
335
2 Algorithm of Vortex Method
2.1 Mathematical Basis
The governing equations of viscous and incompressible flow are described by the vor-
ticity transport equation and the pressure Poisson equation which can be derived by
taking the rotation and the divergence of Navier-Stokes equations, respectively.
1
S? + (u- grado =(@- grad )u+W?’o 
(1)
V? p=-p div(u- grad u) 
(2)
Where u is a velocity vector and a vorticity @ is defined as follows.
@=rotu 
(3)
As explained by Wu and Thompson (1973), the Biot-Savart law can be derived from
the definition equation of vorticity as follows.
us [ 0 x V oG)dv+ [eo Uy )-V G-( x Uy )x Vo Gs 
@
Here, subscript “0” denotes variable, differentiation and integration at a location ro,
and #9 denotes the normal unit vector at a point on a boundary surface S. And G is the
fundamental solution of the scalar Laplace equation with the delta function 6(r - ro )
in the right hand side, which is written for a three-dimensional field as follows.
1 
(5)
GH=
4aR
Here, 
R=r—ro,R=R=| r—ro|. In Eq. (4), the inner product np - up and the outer
product mpx#y stand for normal velocity component and tangential velocity vector on
the boundary surface, and they correspond to the source distribution on the surface and
the vortex distribution that has the rotating axis in parallel to the surface, respectively.
Therefore, it is mathematically understood that velocity fields of viscous and incom-
pressible flow are obtained from the field integration concerning vorticity distributions
in the flow field and the surface integration concerning source and vortex distributions
around the boundary surface. In this study, a boundary surface is represented by the
panel method. 
The source panels and vorticity layers corresponding to a couple of
terms in the surface integration in the right hand side of Eq.(4) are distributed on the
boundary surface. The strengths of source and vorticity are determined by using the
following two conditions; zero normal component of relative velocity to the boundary
surface and non-slip condition of the relative flow on the solid surface. The pressure
in the field is obtained from the integration equation formulated by Uhlman (1992), in-
stead of the finite difference calculation of the Eq.(2) as follows.

--- Page 337 ---
336
pits [Has =— | voluxe}ir— [Gn ds—v [ n(vG xe) 
©)
Here, /=1 in the flow field and #=1/2 on the boundary S. G is the fundamental solu-
tion given by Eq.(5). H is the Bernoulli function defined as follows.
2 
(7)
H -P 4
p 
2
The values of 7 on the boundary surface are calculated from Eq. (6) by using the panel
method. Once the pressure distribution around the boundary surface is calculated from
Eqs. (6) and (7), integration of both pressure distribution and frictional stress distribu-
tion around the body surface yields the fluid force acting on the body.
2.2 Introduction of Vortex Elements
One of the most important schemes in the vortex methods is how to represent the dis-
tribution of vorticity in the proximity of the body surface, taking account of viscous
diffusion and convection of vorticity under the non-slip condition on the surface. In the
present method, a thin vorticity layer is considered along the solid surface, and discrete
vortex elements are introduced into the surrounding flow field considering the diffu-
sion and convection of vorticity from discrete elements of the thin vorticity layer. The
details of treatments have been explained in the paper by Ojima & Kamemoto (2001).
The discrete vortex element is modeled by a vortex blob which has a spherical struc-
ture with a radially symmetric vorticity distribution proposed by Winkelmans & Leo-
nard (1988), The motion of the discrete vortex elements is represented by Lagrangian
form of a simple differential equation dr / df= u. Then, trajectory of a discrete vortex
element over a time step is approximately computed from the Adams-Bashforth
method. On the other hand, the evolution of vorticity is calculated by Eq.(1) with the
three-dimensional core spreading method proposed by Nakanishi & Kamemoto
(1992). It should be noted here that in order to keep higher accuracy in expression of a
local vorticity distribution, a couple of additional schemes of re-distribution of vortex
blobs are introduced in the present advanced vortex method. When the vortex core of a
blob becomes larger than a representative scale of the local flow passage, the vortex
blob is divided into a couple of smaller blobs. On the other hand, if the rate of three-
dimensional elongation becomes large to some extent, the vortex blob is divided into
plural blobs to approximate the elongated vorticity distribution much more properly.
The code used in the present study is a modified version of Virtual Fluids System 3D.
3 Flow around a 100 m Runner
A static configuration of a man was represented by 3,020 source panels by modifying a
sample data set contained in a three dimensional graphic tool (Shade 7.5 Professional).
Figure | shows the configuration of his whole body expressed by the set of panels.

--- Page 338 ---
337
As a typical running style, the running motion of a famous Japanese 100 m sprinter,
Mr. Hideaki Miyata, was adapted to the body configuration. Figure 2 shows a series of
stick pictures of his one cycle motion during sprint running of a 100 m 
race reported
by Sekioka et al (1990). In the present study, the one cycle motion was produced by
320steps of instantaneous body configuration based on the stick pictures. Figure 3
shows the one cycle motion of sprint running represented by characteristic eight steps
of instantaneous running style.
}
INV 
ef 
¥ 
chet 
{ 
\
= 
ff 
dl 
Sa
L 
} 
+) 
5 ee 
ah 
fal
f a aaa 
of RK: 
| AA 
Py 
Ps 
te 
‘4
FOP 
OWN 
of 
Ve 
V7
a 
Sti 
IN 
NI
F 
| 
'
UAE Lit}
/ 
}
Leds (A)
Fig. 1. Panel distribution represent- 
Fig. 2. Stick pictures of one cycle motion of a 100
ing a standing configuration. 
m runner. (Sekioka et al (1990))
Fig. 3. One cycle of running motion represented by deformation of panel distribution.
Considering the world record of the 100 m race, the running speed of the model runner
was assumed to be constant as 10.0 m/s for the calculation of sprint running mode. In
the present calculation, the relative flow around the configuration of the runner was
dealt with, and therefore, the surface of ground represented by 1,796 panels was
moved together with the atmosphere at a constant speed of 10.0 m/s instead of giving
the running speed to the runner model itself.
In the redistribution of panels at every moment of calculation steps, it is necessary
to consider connection of foot panels to moving ground panels according to alternative
stamping of feet with the ground surface. In the present calculation, for the case of
stamping the ground, the whole panels of the underside surface of a foot were con-
nected with the ground surface at a time step when the gap between them became less
than a small value, and for the case of leaving ground, a part of underside panels were
redistributed from the heel at every step of calculation.

--- Page 339 ---
338
In the present study, in order to normalize length scale, the breadth of the runner’s
shoulders 0.4 m was used as the representative length Z for normalization of the length
scale. The running speed 10.0 m/s was used as the representative velocity U for nor-
malization of the velocity scale. As one cycle motion was represented 320 steps of in-
stantaneous body configuration, and as it is known that one cycle of sprint running
motion of a first class runner takes approximately 0.45 s, the size of time step of the
present time marching calculations was taken to be 1.40x10° s. The kinematic viscos-
ity vand density p of the atmosphere were respectively assumed as 1.43x10° m’/s and
1.2 kg/m’. Therefore, the Reynolds number of the flow around the runner becomes Re
= UL/ v=2.8x10°.
In order to understand the influence of the ground surface on the drag force acting
on a human body, flows around the standing configuration as shown in Fig.1 in a uni-
form stream of 10m/s were analyzed. Figure 4 shows time histories of drag forces act-
ing on the standing body for the two cases of calculation condition with and without
the ground surface, where the flow was assumed to impulsively start from rest at the
time =0.0 s. It is known that time mean values of the both drag forces are almost the
same as about 20 N and any considerable differences are not observed in the features
of drag force fluctuations except for the initial developing stage.
f 
]
30}
ri 
4
oH Pract may 
A Binal
ty
deeenennttannenl
without the ground surface
with the ground surface 
|
|
0 
0,2 
0.4 
0.6
Time [sec]
Fig. 4. Time histories of drag forces acting on the standing body for the condition with and
without the ground surface
Figure 5 shows a side view, a top view and a partial view of an instantaneous flow
pattern around the runner at the time of f = 0.7 s expressed by relative velocity vectors
at positions of vortex elements. It is clearly observed that a higher velocity region is
formed around the right shoulder and a low velocity region due to three dimensional
flow separation is formed behind the back. Figure 6 shows three views of the pressure
distribution around the runner’s body surface at the same instance shown in Fig.5.
Figure 7 shows the time history of unsteady drag force acting on the runner body
compared with the drag force on the body simply standing on the ground shown in Fig.
4. It is clearly known that the time mean value of the drag force on the runner is not so
different from that on the standing body, but the fluctuation of the drag force is con-
siderably larger than that of the standing case. It is also interestingly observed in Fig. 7
that the drag force is rather low around the time of ¢ = 0.30 s in comparison with the
drag on standing body, (hereafter which is called Case-1), and, after that, it increases
and becomes almost equal to the drag on the standing style body or rather large around
the time of ¢ = 0.43 (hereafter which is called Case-2).

--- Page 340 ---
339
(b) Top view
(a) Side view 
(c) Partial view
Fig. 5. Three views of an instantaneous flow pattern around a runner at f= 0.7 s.
mk f
(a) Front view 
(b) Side view 
(c) Rear view
we
Fig. 6. Pressure distribution around the body surface of a runner at t = 0.7 s.
—— 
standing on the ground
——— 
running on the ground
% 
0.2 
04 
06
Time [sec]
Fig. 7. Time history of drag force acting on a runner compared with drag force on standing
configuration.

--- Page 341 ---
340
In Fig. 8, side views of flow patterns and rear views of pressure distributions for
both characteristic cases of Case-1 and Case-2 are shown for comparison each others.
In Case-1, the left hand is moving forward and the left foot is stamping. At the same
time, the right hand is moving backward and the right foot is going to move forward. It
is observed that the flow separation causes uniformly low pressure distribution on the
back surface. On the other hand, in Case-2, the left hand is approaching to the forward
dead point of swinging and the left foot is in the phase just after kicking the ground
surface. At the same time, the right hand is approaching to the backward dead point of
swinging and the right foot is moving forward just under the runner’s body. It is inter-
esting that a rather high velocity region is formed in the narrow space between the left
side of body and the swinging left arm, and according to the appearance of the higher
velocity region, some spots of very low pressure are distributed on the left hand side
surface of the back and the rear surface of the left arm. The appearance of the higher
velocity region in the space under the arm seems to result the slightly larger drag force
in the running phase of Case-2.
Case-1 at 0.3 s 
Case-2 at 0.43 s
Fig. 8. Comparison of flow patterns and back pressure distributions between the lower drag
phase (Case-1) and higher drag phase (Case-2).
4 Flow around a Ski-jumper
A configuration of a ski-jumper with a pair of skis was formed by 2,748 source panels
which consisted of eight sets of panels representing a head, a body, a pair of arms, a
pair of legs and a pair of skis. Figure 9 shows front and side views of a panel distribu-
tion representing an instantaneous style at a moment of flight.
(a) Front view 
(b) Side view
Fig. 9. Panel distributions representing a flight style of a ski-jumper.

--- Page 342 ---
341
Referring to the characteristic data obtained by Schmolzer and Muller (2005) for
flight styles of the top ten ski jumpers in the Salt Lake City Olympic Games in 2002,
flight style at every moment after jumping was formed by using the three dimensional
graphic tool (Shade 7.5 Professional). It is known from the characteristic data that it
takes about 4 seconds to fly from jumping to landing along the flight course shown in
Fig.10, which shows the sectional configuration of the hill (K point: 120 m) and the
flight course introduced in this study.
It is known that although both skis are parallel in the period from 0.0 Gumping) to
0.04 s, they move and take a formation of so called V-shape mainly during the period
between 0.04 s and 0.64 s. Therefore, in the present study, paying attention to dynamic
characteristics of fluid force acting on the ski jumper during the movement of skis
from parallel state to the V-shape, 700 flight styles were introduced to provide a set of
panels of instantaneous flight style at every time step of 0.001 s for simulation of the
ski flight during the period from 0.0 s to 0.7 s. Figure 11 shows the oblique view of
representative six steps of flight style.
aN 
Nt
| 
ana Pr eal
Fig. 10. Sectional configuration of a
hill and calculation flight course. 
Fig. 11. Representative four steps of flight style
In the present study, a ski jumper, who is 1.73 m tall in height, flies the course
shown in Fig. 10, in the stationary atmosphere, where the mean speed of the flight is
about 25 m/s. The relative and unsteady flow around the ski jumper was simulated in
the period of V-shape formation from ‘0.0 s to 0.7 s. Length of a pair of skis ts 2.48
m, and the maximum width is 0.102 m and the width at the ski tail is 0.091 m. The
size of time step of the present unsteady calculations was taken to be 1.0x10° s. Ki-
nematic viscosity v and density p of the atmosphere were respectively assumed as
1.45x10° m’/s and 1.2 kg/m’. Therefore, taking the mean speed U of flight and the
height L of the ski jumper, the Reynolds number of the relative flow becomes Re = U
L/ v=3.0x10°. In this paper, both vertical component F, and horizontal component F;,
of the calculated fluid force acting on the ski jumper including a pair of skis are re-
spectively normalized as F,/(0.59 U’) m’ which is called “lift force area” and F,/(0.5p
U’) m’ which is called “drag force area” in this paper.
Figure 12 shows a couple of side views of instantaneous relative flow patterns
around the ski jumper at the time of ¢ = 0.04 s and 0.25 s which are expressed by rela-
tive velocity vectors at positions of vortex elements at each moment. It is clearly ob-
served that remarkable separation of the relative flow appears only around the legs at
t=0.04 s because both skis are parallel and attack angle of the skis to the relative flow
is still very small. On the other hand, at 0.25 s, the flow separation becomes consid-
erable around the whole configuration including the pair of skis because skis move

--- Page 343 ---
342
from parallel phase to the V-shape phase and the attack angle becomes large. There-
fore, it is thought that the vortical and complex flow through skis strongly affects the
flow separation from the body of the ski jumper.
Figure 13 shows time history of normalized aerodynamic force acting on the ski
jumper after jumping, where t, is the time 0.04 s when movement of skis stars from the
initial parallel-phase to the V-shape phase and t; is the time 0.25 s when the ski jumper
finishes the ski-movement. It is very interesting that both values of lift and drag force
areas remarkably increases during the transition period of ski-movement.
Figure 14 shows front views and top views of pressure distributions along the sur-
faces of the ski jumper and both skis in the parallel phase at =0.04 s and in the V
shape phase at t=0.25 s. It is observed in the front view of pressure distribution at
=0.25 s that considerably higher pressure caused by frontal stagnation of the relative
flow widely distributes not only along the front surface of the ski jumper’s body but
also on the back surfaces of both skis, whereas there are not so remarkable differences
between top views of pressure distributions at 0.04 s and 0.25 s. Therefore, it is un-
derstood that the flight style of V-shape is certainly effective to obtain considerable in-
crease of lift (vertical) force to the ski jumper during the flight.
(a) 0.04 s 
(b) 0.25 s
Fig. 12. Side views of instantaneous relative flow patterns around a ski jumper
T 
T 
T
L 
/ lift force area
©
we
drag 
and 
lift 
force 
areas 
(m’)
°
we
s drag force area
°
Rn
t,: start of ski-movement to V-shape |
t¢ finish of ski-movement to V-shape
0 
1 
1
0 * 
0.2 # 
0.4 
0.6
t, 
t 
time(s)
Fig. 13. Time history of lift (vertical) force area and drag (horizontal) force area corre-
sponding to aerodynamic force on a ski-jumper.

--- Page 344 ---
343
Front view 
Top view 
Front view 
Top view
(a) 0.04 s 
(b) 0.25 s
Fig. 14. Comparison of pressure distributions along the surfaces of a ski jumper and skis in
the parallel phase and in the V-shape phase.
5 Conclusions
In this study, complex and unsteady flows around an isolated 100 m runner and a ski-
jumper were calculated by applying an advanced vortex method based on the Biot-
Savart law. Since the method provides completely grid-free Lagrangian calculation of
unsteady and vortical flows, dynamic motions of the athletes were easily introduced
into the calculation by importing an instantaneous configuration of moving body ex-
pressed by a number of source panels at every moment of calculation steps.
From the calculation of flow around a 100 m runner during sprint running, it be-
comes clear that the aerodynamic drag force acting on the runner is about 20 N and it
is always fluctuating according to interaction of flow separation around the body with
individual motions of arms and legs.
From the calculation of flow around a ski jumper, it is clarified that the motion of
skis to form the V-shape just after jumping brings significant increases in both lift
force and drag force on the ski-jumper. This fact seems to suggest that optimization of
timing of the ski movement and matching of the style of V-shape with the flight style
of the ski jumper’s body are very important to elongate the flight distance.
Finally, the present authors would like to conclude the present study by pointing that
the advanced vortex method will become one of the most capable methods to contrib-
ute to the developments of fluid dynamics in sports science in the very near future.
References
Fukuda K. and Kamemoto, K. (2005) Application of a redistribution model incorpo-
rated in a vortex method to turbulent flow analysis. Proc. of ICVFM2005, Yoko-
hama, Japan, Nov.21-23, pp 131-136.

--- Page 345 ---
344
Greengard, L. and Rohklin, V. (1987) A fast algorithm for particle simulations. J.
Comp. Phys. 73, 325.
Kamemoto, K. (1995) On attractive features of the vortex methods. Computational
Fluid Dynamics Review, ed. M.Hafez and K.Oshima, JOHN WILEY & SONS, pp
334-353.
Kamemoto, K. (2004) On contribution of advanced vortex element methods toward
virtual reality of unsteady vertical flows in the new generation of CFD. Proc. of
ENCIT2004, ABCM, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Nov.29 — Dec. 03, CITO4-IL04.
Leonard, A. (1980) Vortex methods for flow simulations. J. Comp. Phys. 37, pp 289-
335.
Nakanishi, Y. and Kamemoto, K. (1992) Numerical simulation of flow around a
sphere with vortex blobs. Journal Wind Eng. and Ind. Aero, Vol. 46 & 47, pp 363-
369.
Ojima, A. and Kamemoto, K.(2001) Numerical simulation of unsteady flow through a
horizontal axis wind turbine by a vortex method. Proc. of ICVFM2001, Istanbul,
pp 173-180.
Ojima A. and Kamemoto, K. (2005) Numerical simulation of unsteady flows around a
fish. Proc. of ICVFM2005, Yokohama, Japan, Nov.21-23, pp 96-101.
Sarpkaya, T. (1989) Computational methods with vortices - the 1988 Freeman scholar
lecture. J. Fluids Engng., 111, pp 5-52.
Schmolzer B. and Muller W. (2005) Individual flight styles in ski jumping: results ob-
tained during Olympic Games competitions. Journal of Biomechanics, Vol. 38, Is-
sue 5, pp 1055-1065.
Sekioka Y., Suganuma F., Nagasawa M., Ogata M., Morita M., Kobayasi T. and Oh-
gusi K. (1990) Comparison of sprint running motions between 
representative
sprinters; Mr. Hideaki Miyata and Mr. Shinji Aoto. Research report of athletic
sports, Science Committee of Japan Association of Athletics Federations, 10, pp
170-174.
Uhiman, JS. (1992) An integral equation formulation of the equation of motion of an
incompressible fluid. Naval Undersea Warfare Center T.R., 10, 086.
Winkelmans, G. and Leonard, A. (1988) Improved vortex methods for three-
dimensional flows”, Proc. Workshop on Mathematical Aspects of Vortex Dynam-
ics, pp 25-35, Leeburg, Virginia.
Wu, J.C. and Thompson, J.F. (1973) Numerical solutions of time-dependent incom-
pressible Navier-Stokes equations using an integro-differential formulation. Com-
puters & Fluids, Vol. 1, pp 197-215.

--- Page 346 ---
Chapter28
Rowing Velocity Prediction Program with
Estimating Hydrodynamic Load Acting on an Oar
Blade
Takeshi Kinoshita', Masaki Miyashita’, Hiroshi Kobayashi’, and Takanori Hino*
‘Institute of Industrial Science, University of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Komaba, Meguro-ku,
Tokyo, 153-8505, Japan
* National Maritime Research Institute, 6-38-1 Shinkawa, Mitaka, Tokyo, 181-
0004, Japan
Summary. An oar blade behaves as unsteady hydrofoil and its load strongly de-
pends on a reduced frequency of the rowing motion. The tank test is carried out
using a circulating water channel to estimate the load.
Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) simulation of a rotating flat plate in uni-
form flow, which corresponds to the tank test in circulating water channel, reveals
transient phenomena of flow field around the plate and explains the reason why
the normal force coefficients strongly depend on the reduced frequency.
The program which simulates the rowing motion of a single scull is developed.
The force that pulls the oar handle and the motion of the rower's centre of mass
are input values for the simulation. The input values represent the rower's per-
formance, that is, the rower’s power and body movements. 
The results of the
simulation are in good agreement with the in-situ experiments, and the method can
be used as a VPP (Velocity Prediction Program).
Key words. rowing, oar blade, reduced frequency, velocity prediction program,
CFD
1 Introduction
Although sport rowing has a long history, few engineering studies have been made
on the subject. For a realistic simulation of rowing boat motion, it is essential to
accurately evaluate hydrodynamic force acting on an oar blade and to fully and
reasonably model the rower's body motion.
Fluid motion around an oar blade is transient and the hydrodynamic force acting
on an oar blade should be unsteady. Both the relative speed of an oar blade to wa-
ter and the angle of attack of an oar blade to the water are transiently changed dur-
ing a stroke phase in which a rower pulls a handle of an oar to propel a boat.
In this study we evaluate the unsteady blade force from a "reduced frequency", as
well as the relative speed of the oar blade to the water and the angle of attack of
the oar blade to the water by using a circulating water channel. We carry out a
simulation to estimate the boat speed and oar motion by solving energy equations
for the hull, rower, and oars.
345

--- Page 347 ---
346
In order to know why the normal force coefficient so strongly depends on the re-
duced frequency, we carried out CFD simulation of the flow around the flat plate.
Numerical results reveal unsteady flow field such as vortex shedding from side
edge of the rotating plate.
Hayashi et al. (1990, 1991) modeled the rower's mass as a point mass. Hayashi et
al. 
(1990, 1991) and Doi et al. (1999) input the oar motion to the simulation sys-
tem. In reality the use of legs, back swing and arms are very important parameters
of rowing motion, and they cannot be considered as a point mass. The oar motion
is not an input, but an output of rowing. The input to the simulation should be the
rower's motion and the inboard torque of the oar caused by pulling the oar handle.
The inputs to the simulation are inboard torque (the force that pulls the oar handle)
and the rower's motion; leg movement, back swing and arm movement, identified
from a skilled rower. They represent the rower's performance, that is, the rower's
power and body movements. The simulated boat speed and oar motion are com-
pared with in-situ measurements and are in very good agreement, and the method
can be used as a VPP (Velocity Prediction Program).
2 Blade Force Characteristics of Rowing
2.1 Blade Motion in the Water
Velocity of an oar blade Vz, in the water is written on the space-fixed coordinate
system as follows,
V, =Ox(_,,u)+ R, 
(1)
where R, is velocity of a hull. As shown in Fig. 1, the oar blade behaves as a hy-
drofoil in unsteady flow field. Flow velocity Vg and the angle of attack @ tran-
siently varies due to the advancing motion of the hull and the rotation of the oar.
Xetutch 
z
Stroke side (port side)
Fig. 1. Hull fixed coordinate system
The hydrodynamic forct acting on the oar blade F, is a function not only of Vz
and a, but also a reduced frequency ff. That is,

--- Page 348 ---
347
F, = F,(f,,P,.0)=F,(f,,R,.9,8)
where 
a@ =n (Hehe) f. 2m
u-(-V,) 
TU
where T is representative time scale, which is the duration of the stroke phase in
this case. A reduced frequency f, is a ratio of typical speeds, the relative flow
speed and the blade-tip rotational speed. f, is identical with the Strouhal number,
if we take T as the vortex shedding interval, and just a reciprocal of the Swimming
number proposed by Tanaka et al.(1996) as a parameter of fishtail motion. The
Keulegan-Carpenter (1958) number also has similar meaning.
(2)
2.2 Blade Force from in-situ Measurements of a Single Scull
Motion in the Water
C, vs angle of attack
6 
Group A
5 
Group B
Group C
4) 
— 
Group D
3
2
steady state
0 
nA 
z2. 
37/4 
X
Q (angle of attack) [rad]
Fig. 2. Normal blade force coefficient vs the angle of attack
C, versus 
f, (angle of attack = 7/2)
6 
—_—_——_—_—_—_—.
5 }
4; 
ry
= 
2 
a
‘S) 3 
ag 
»
o 
Se
fe
2 
. 
tank test
Group A
1 
Group B
Group C
0! 
_, 
GroupD 
ee
0 
05 
1 
15 
2 
25
Sf,
Fig. 3. Normal blade force coefficient C,(2/ 2) vs reduced frequency

--- Page 349 ---
348
In-situ measurements of a single scull rowed by a skilled athlete were carried out.
These items were measured:
e Two direction (normal and lateral) forces acting on the pivot axis of both sides
of the crutch using small load cells specially designed for this study
e Bending moments of the inboard oars for both sides by strain gauges
© Oar swing angles on both sides by potentio meters
e Pushing force on the stretcher using small load cells specially designed for this
study
e Acceleration of the hull by an accelerometer
e Mean hull speed by a propeller type velocity meter and integration of the
acceleration
The normal component of F’p is normalized as follows,
F.
C, (a) — _ * Bn
ipv,,s 
G)
where Fz, 0, Vg, S are the normal component of Fs, the density of water, the ve-
locity of the oar blade in the water, and the area of the oar blade respectively. Fig.
2 shows C, versus the angle of attack. The measurements were carried about four
different target speeds. The rower made every effort to keep the averaged hull ve-
locity to designated target speed for each cases. Groups A ~ D show the different
measurements of group where the target hull speeds are different as shown in Ta-
ble 1. The normal force has a peak around the angle of attack a=/2, which is the
middle of the stroke. In Fig. 2, data for steady state measurements with a fixed
angle of attack are also sown as steady state.
Table 1. Mean hull speed of each Group
Group 
A 
B 
Cc 
D
Target speed 
3.1[m/s] 
3.3[m/s] 
3.5[m/s] 
3.7{ m/s]
speed actual | 
3 097[m/s] 
3,394 [m/s] 
3.571 [m/s] 
3.698{m/s]
Fig. 3 shows C,{(@= 2/2) versus the reduced frequency, and it clearly shows the
dependency of C,, on the reduced frequency. The blade force is totally different
from the one in a steady state. The "tank test" denotes the result of tank tests us-
ing a circulating water channel as explained in the following sections.
2.3 Blade Tests Using a Circulating Water Channel
To confirm the dependency on the reduced frequency of the blade force, we car-
ried out forced rotating tests in a circulating water channel using a flat plate ap-
proximating a real oar blade. The water channel was 1.8[m] in width and 1.0[m]
in depth. The Planar Motion Mechanism (PMM) was set on the channel with a
flat plate of the same area and the same aspect ratio as the actual oar blade, and
scale models, connected to the PMM through the force gauge, as shown in Fig. 4.

--- Page 350 ---
349
attached to PMM (Planar Motion Mechanism)
— Load Cell
, Change of angle of attack
sO
te
Uniform Incident Velocity
Axis fixed on load cell i
FYM:
Fig. 4. Schematics of the set up
Case III: draft 
100[mm],
submerged with cover
100 [mm]
ZT
=a
Uniform Flow
Fig. 5. Setu-up of the flat plate
Table .2 Parameters of the water channel tests
Parameter 
Value, type of plate
Flow velocity[m/s]} 
0.8, 1.0, 1.2
Frequency of the input cosine signal to PMM[Hz] | 0.10, 0.15, 0.20, 0.25, 0.30, 0.40, 0.50, 0.60
Type N: (200 X 350)
Type S: (100 
X 175)
Type L: (300 X 525)
Type of flat plate
(chord X span)[mm]
The parameters of this experiment are the flow velocity, the angular velocity of
the rotation, and the scale ratio of the flat plate as shown in Table 2. The scale
models (Type N, Type S and Type L) were used because of the limited ability of
the flow velocity of the circulating water channel. Type N is of the same area as
the oar blade.
The flat plate rotates from zero angle of attack until z using a part of cosine signal
and the upper edge was 100[mm] under the water level and a flat plate which cov-
ers the water surface was placed, as shown in Fig. 5. 
Considerable ventilation

--- Page 351 ---
350
could be observed in Case I, and even in Case II. We used the data of Case III in
the following analysis.
From the measurement, it becomes clear that the normal force F, of the plate is
dominant among all forces and that both the vertical force F’, and tangential one F,
are negligible. The normal force coefficient is obtained by normalizing F, as fol-
lows,
F¥
where U, S are uniform flow velocity and the area of the flat plate respectively.
C,, versus the angle of attack for Case III is shown in Fig. 6.
C, vs Angle of Attack on each f,(1.0[m/s])
fo abs
0°
O.1arcige
es 
eee
Fig. 6. Normal force coefficient vs. angle of attack ( Case III )
C, versus 
f, (angle of attack = 7/2)
Y 
es 
Type S/0.5{m/s]
oe 
Type S/0.8[m/s]}
Pe ~ 
Type S/1.0{m/s]
b 
aj 
Type S/1.2[m/s]
a 
Type N/O.8[m/s] 
@
Type N/1.0[m/s]
1+ 
Type N/1.2[m/s] 
e
. Type L/0.8[m/s}
—0.065f,°+ 1.6072f,+ 1.5258
05 
1 
15 
2 
25 
3
f,
Fig. 7. Normal force coefficient vs. reduced frequency ( Case III )
6
5
4) 
om 
|
3
2

--- Page 352 ---
351
In Fig. 6, the normal force coefficients clearly show the difference from the steady
state case. They are asymmetric with respect to the angle of attack and maximum
values increase as the reduced frequency comes higher, although they are symmet-
ric about 2/2 in the case of the steady state. Fig. 
7 shows C,(a@ = 2/2) versus the
reduced frequency, and the dependence on the reduced frequency even in different
scale models and at different flow speeds is clearly observed. The ventilation im-
pedes the growth of the normal force. Here we can confirm the dependency on the
reduced frequency of the biade force. The tank test data are compared with the in-
situ data in Fig. 3 and are in qualitatively good agreement with each other. The
tank test data can be utilized as an input of the rowing simulation in section 4 with
some correction.
3 CFD Simulation of the Flow Around The Blade
3.1 Computational Conditions
In order to know why the normal force coefficient so strongly depends on the re-
duced frequency, and to obtain a tool to design better shape and camber of the
blade, we carried out Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) simulation of the
flow around the flat plate which rotates from zero angle of attack until z angle of
attack in a uniform flow. This CFD simulation corresponds to the hydrodynamic
force measurement in section 2. 
We use the unstructured grid based Navier-
Stokes solver for computing turbulent viscous flows, called SURF(Hino, 1997 and
Sato et al., 2003).
Table 3. Calculation conditions
Parameters 
Value
Reynolds number 
3.5X 10°
Froude Number 
0
Reduced Frequency 
0, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0
Number of cells (i*/*4) 
69654(39*38*47)
Minimum spacing 
i 
5.0X 10°
i 
1.4285 X 107
k 
7.5X 10°
i: chordwise direction , j: spanwise direction , k: normal direction from plate surface to outer
boundary
Zz
xy
Fig. 8. Computational grid

--- Page 353 ---
352
SURF is developed at National Maritime Research Institute (NMRI).. The govern-
ing equations are the three dimensional Reynolds averaged Navier-Stokes equa-
tions for incompressible flows. Coupling between pressure and velocity is made
by artificial compressibility approach. Spatial discretization is based on a finite
volume method for an unstructured grid. In the present approach, a cell centered
layout is adopted in which flow variables are defined at the centroid of each cell
and a control volume is a cell itself. Also it has the capability to compute un-
steady flows.
Computational conditions and grid sizes are shown in Table 3 and the computa-
tional grid is shown in Fig. 8. In the computation, no turbulence model is used.
An O-O type grid is adopted for this simulation. A Solution domain is a hemi-
spheric shape which covers a half side of whole domain for spanwise direction
since a flow filed can be assumed to be symmetric due to a rectangular planform
of the flat plate. An aspect ratio of the flat plate is 0.57 which is the same as the
flat plates shown in Table 2 tested in section 2.3. A radius of the hemispheric do-
main is 5 times of chord length of the flat plate.
The whole grid rotates around the Z -axis from angle 0 to z [rad] to the uniform
flow as the time step advances. The number of time steps for the rotation is 8000
in each computational case. Therefore a time step is defined according to the re-
duced frequency as follows:
At= 
T «
8000 
4000f, 
(5)
where 7(=277/ f,) is period in which the angle of attack varies from 0 to 2 [rad]. T
is normalized by uniform flow speed and the chord length of the flat plate.
fr=0.5, Rn=3.5e5(CFD)
Sr 
= 
fr=1.0, Rn=3.5e5(CFD)
» 
. 
fr=2.0, Rn=3.5e5(CFD)
> 
Ey 
fr=0.48, Rn=3.5e5(Exp)
4+ 
, 
a 
fr=0.90, Rn=3.5e5(Exp)
¢ 
> 
* 
fr=1.07, RB eeEOS
ot ¢ 
> ~~ fr=2.07, Rn=8.8e4(Exp)
3b 
‘a> 
tae
= 
4 
/a**® 
od 
"
O 
iM / 
= . 
,
2 Ss 
, 
+4 
a 
& 
>
- 
2 
@
» , 
ry
1F 
z 
. 5
>» 
-» 
. 
=
2 
Re
fa 
ce
0 4 
1 
1 
“1 
a <=
0 
1/4 
7/2 
31/4 
T
Attack Angle[rad]
Fig. 9. C,, vs the angle of attack (7, =0.5, 1.0, 2.0)

--- Page 354 ---
353
7 -=
6 _
5 5
V 4b 
>> 
Small (0.5[m/s])
Re 
Phas 
= Small (0.8[m/s])
* 3b 
ser 
Small (1.0[m/s])
— 
wa 
a Small (1.2[m/s])
Oot 
.4* 
Large (0.8[m/s])
w* 
> Normal (0.8[m/s])
Normal (1.0[m/s])
IF 
< Normal (1.2[m/s])
Q 
; 
| 
@CFD 
;
0 
1 
2 
3
Reduced Frequency fr
Fig. 10. C,, vs reduced frequency
3.2 Computational Results and discussion
The numerical results of the normal force coefficients C,, versus the angle of at-
tack are shown in Fig. 9 in comparison with experimental data of tank test in the
circulating water channel. 
Fig. 10 shows C,(a@= 2/2) versus the reduced fre-
quency also compared with measured data. The computations and measurements
show very good agreement. 
It means that numerical simulation can solve un-
steady flow field around a rotating plate and can estimate the load that acts on the
plate reasonably.
In order to know the effect of the reduced frequency to unsteady hydrodynamic
force in detail, development of vortex and pressure distributions are examined.
For example, in case of f, =1.0, which approximately corresponds to the reduced
frequency in the real rowing condition, pressure distributions on an equi-vorticity
(|o|=30) surface and on a surface of the plate at a suction side are shown in Fig.
11. Pressure and vorticity are normalized by uniform flow speed and the chord
length of the flat plate. From Fig. 11, we can see that
1. long "side vortex" is created along the bottom edge of the blade ( see (a))
2. the "side vortex" is growing along the chord of the blade, streaming to the
tip, at the same time "tip vortex" created along the tip (leading edge) (see
(b,c))
3. "side vortex" is streaming toward the tip and combined with the "tip vortex"
(see (d))
4. the combined vortex is shed from the plate and streaming out. (see (e,f))
It means that the "side vortex" created along the bottom edge and the "tip vortex"
created at the tip produce negative pressure on the surface of the blade at the suc-
tion side. The former contribution is significant to the normal force of the blade.
The size and strength of the "side vortex" strongly depend on the reduced fre-
quency.

--- Page 355 ---
354
<On the Equi-vorticity Surface> 
: 
_<On the Plate Surface>
(2) =0.4173{/9d] 
Sp 
flow 
e
ge 
|
- 4
(c)@ =1.1682[rad} -
(d) 
a =1.SS8S{rad)
(€)a =1.9495[rad)
Soles
(Na =2,4020{red)
ee,
aa
“—
i
~
Fig. 11. Pressure distribution on equi-vorticity surface (|@|=30) and on the plate
surface at suction side
P
1
08
P06
r— 04
fj] 02
fj 0
<fr=1.0> 
| ey
3S 
ek: 
b> -0.6
See 
=
pase
Pa] -1.2
-1.4
-1.6
1.8
2
2.2
-2.4
-2.6
-2.8
-3
Fig. 12. Pressure distribution on equi-vorticity surface(|@|=30), (@ =1.5585{rad])

--- Page 356 ---
355
The pressure distributions on an equi-vorticity (|\@|=30) surface at a= 7/2 in the
different reduced frequencies are shown in Fig. 12. The larger reduced frequency
yields the longer and stronger "side vortex". It is revealed by the numerical simu-
lation that the development and shedding of three dimensional vortices play a
dominant role in this phenomenon.
4 Hull Speed Prediction for Single Scull Rowing
The equations of motion of a hull, a rower and an oar on the space fixed coordi-
nate system are as follows (Kinoshita et al., 2004),
M,R, =2F.+F,+D
MR, =-F,-2F,
2M_R, =2F, -2F,.+2F,
216 = 2(I,,,u)xF, +2(-1,,u)x 
Fy,
out
(6)
Subscript 4, r, 0, B, H, C and S denote hull, rower, oar, oar blade, oar handle,
crutch, and stretcher fixed to the hull, respectively. ( see Fig. 13 ) As shown in
Fig. 1, @is the swing angle of the oar.Only longitudinal motion of the hull is con-
sidered here, and vertical motion is neglected. It means this simulation includes
surging, but not pitching and heaving. This is because heaving and pitching mo-
tions are very slight in comparison to longitudinal motion. Math of the hull M, in-
cludes added mass due to surging.
The increase of the kinetic energy can be obtained integrating Equations (6) as fol-
lows,
° + dz MIR + ad 2 10°)
2 
2
=2(F, -F.+F,,)-dr,+(-F, -2F,,)-dr, + D-dR,
+2F, dR, +2d0-((L,,u)x F,}+2d6-{(-1,,u)xF,,}
=2(F, -F.+F,,)-dr, +(-F, -2F,,)-dr, + D-dR,
+2F, -dR, +2d0-((-,,u)xF,,} 
(7)
dr, = dR, — dR,
where 
dr, =—dR,—adR,
dR, = dR, + d0x(L,,u)
dK = d+ M,|R,| + 2d 2 MR, 
R,
where dr,, dr, and dRg are movement of the rower, movement of the oar center of
gravity on the hull-fixed coordinate system, and the blade movement in the water,
respectively. The Equation (7) means that the total kinetic energy increase con-
sists of following terms:

--- Page 357 ---
356
¢ (F,—F.+F,,)-dr, : work caused by the motion of the center of gravity of the
oar
(F, = 2F,, )-dr, : work caused by the motion of the center of gravity of the
rower
© D-dR, : work spent by hull resistance
e F,-dR, : Slip loss of the oar blade
¢ do-{(-1,u)xF,,} : input of the inboard torque by pulling the oar handle
Blade
Stretcher 
@ 
Direction of Movement 
Crutoh 
Out Rigger
a 
ae
Sliding Sheet 
Handle 
Direction of Movement
Fig. 13. Constitution of rowing boat
| Initial values of hull speed, oar swing angle, etc. |
| 
_ Convergence of 
| 
Oar handle force and angle derivatrives 
|
Equations of Energy 
| <gamm=s of the mass center position of the rower 
>
R,,,0,0 
! 
&
Blade force 
=
t=f+df\|_Hull resistance 
$
| 
{2
t 
eccceccecesescesescccesese ‘eo
Convergence of 
Time derivative of the mass 
| 
9
Equations of Energy 
center position of the rower 
| 
gs
Qa
R, 
[Hull 
resi 
g
t=t+dt\_Hull resistance 
| 
§
ok 
°
uw
No
Li Obtained hull speed is equal to
initial value of the hull speed?
Yves
Fig. 14. Simulation flowchart

--- Page 358 ---
357
] 
By
arm
Fig. 15. Definition of variables of the rower's position
Stiffness of the oar shaft is taken into account by the beam theory. The rowing
rate and the range of the oar swing are also constrained. The load acting on the
oar blade can be estimated by using the results of tank test in section 2.3. The
flow chart of the simulation is shown in Fig. 14.
The simulation starts from the catch point with the initial condition of the hull
speed, the oar swing angle, and the swing angular velocity. The time interval dt
was set as 0.01 sec. The stroke finishes when the oar swing angle reaches the
constrained angle of the rowing range. 
For the "forward" phase, which means
after the finish of the stroke until the next catch, no hydrodynamic force acts on
the oar blade. Then we drop the terms relating @, and obtain the hull speed. The
forward phase period is determined from the constrained rowing rate and the
simulated stroke phase period. 
The final hull speed of the forward phase is
compared with the initial value of the hull speed at the catch point. If they do not
coincide with each other, we continue the simulation until they coincide. In the
simulation we need the following input data. For the stroke phase, the oar handle
force Fy (Fy - li, is the inboard torque ) and the angle derivative of the mass
center of the rower “: are given as functions of @ for the input data as well as
the hull resistance. For the forward phase, the time derivative of the mass center
of the rower and the hull resistance are given.
The seat position x,,, the stooping angle g, and the shortened arm length Lam
should hold the following equation on the hull fixed coordinate system (See Fig.
15).
X crutch + Lin sin 0 + Lorm (@) = Kop (0)+ h tan(9(@)) 
(9)
where Xeuick 1S position of the crutch and / is the height of the handle. The angle
derivative of the mass center of the rower x, is
(8) 
_ (8) cog 4018) 
(10)
do 
d@ 
do

--- Page 359 ---
358
where a is the height of the rower's center of gravity from the seat.
The simulated and measured hull speeds and oar swing angles are compared.
Very good agreement are obtained for all cases, Groups A ~ D. Results are shown
in Fig. 16 and Fig. 17 for Group A.
Velocity of the hull
5) 
:
Experiments
45 
Simulation 
— ©
— 
4
2
=S35)
8o 3
>
0 
05 115 
2 
25 
3 
35 
4 
45
time[sec]
Fig. 16. Comparison of hull speed: Group A
Oar Swing Angle
le
05} 
i)
_ 
a
= 
0 
B
= 
Gg
2.0.5) 
el “4
2 
g
149] 
O @
-1 
}
Bo pe 
Experiments
15 
Simulation 
— ©
~~ 
05 
1 
15 
2
time[sec]
Fig. 17. Comparison of oar swing angle: Group A
5 Conclusions
The blade force characteristics of rowing are clarified by both experiments in the
circulating water channel and CFD simulation. The normal force coefficient of
the blade strongly depends on the reduced frequency. It is because that the longer
and stronger "side vortex" of the blade is formed at the higher reduced frequency.

--- Page 360 ---
359
A VPP (Velocity Prediction Program) for a rowing boat is developed with input
values of the force that pulls the oar handles and the motion of the rower's centre
of mass.
It is proved that CFD simulation has capability to solve fluid motion around the
oar blade and VPP can predict the motion of the hull and the oar. It will be possi-
ble to obtain optimal shape of the oar blade by combining CFD simulation and
VPP. To achieve this object, an effect of free surface should be taken into account
in the CFD simulation, which is not considered in the present simulation. Rey-
nolds number also affects the hydrodynamic load significantly and it should be
studied as well in the next step.
6 Acknowledgements
The authors wish to express their gratitude to Mr. Koutarou Horiuchi, Human and
Solar Power Boat Association and Mr. Tadashi Abe, Japan Rowing Boat Associa-
tion for their cooperation of it in-situ measurement. They are also grateful to Dr.
Nobuyuki Hirata, National Maritime Research Institute for helpful cooperation in
CFD simulation.
References
DOI, Y. and UEDA, T. and MORI, K. and NINOMIYA, S., "Study on Rowing Simu-
lation and Its Application to Evaluate Oar Size and Rowing Pattern", "Journal of The
Society of Naval Architects of Japan, Vol.186, pp.89-96", 1999,
HAYASHI, f. and 
FUKUDA, J. and YAMADA, H., "Effects of oar shape on thrust of
a shell four in the numerical model, Ist report", "Human Science, Vol.3, No.2, Syn-
thetic Human Research Center, Waseda University", (1990).
HAYASHI, I. and FUKUDA, J. and YAMADA, H., "Effects of oar shape on thrust of
a shell four in the numerical model, 2nd report", "Human Science, Vol.4, No.2, Syn-
thetic Human Research Center, Waseda University", 1991.
Hino T., A 3D Unstructured Grid Method for Incompressible Viscous Flows, Journal
of the Society of Naval Architects of Japan, Vol.182, pp.9 --15, 1997.
Keulegan, G. H. and Carpenter, L. H., 
Forces on Cylinders and Plates in an Oscillating
Fluid, J. res. National Bureau of Standards, 1958.
Kinoshita. T. and Kobayashi, H. "Improving rower motion and rowing equipment by
using rowing velocity prediction program with estimating hydrodynamic load acting
on an oar blade," International Journal of Small Craft Technology, vol. 146, RINA,
pp16-26, 2004.
Sato, Y. and Hino, T. "Estimation of Thrust of Swimmer's Hand Using CFD,” Pro-
ceedings of Second International Symposium on Aqua Bio-Mechanisms, 2003
TANAKA, L. and NAGAI, M., “Hydrodynamics of Resistance and Propulsion", Ship
and Ocean Foundation, 1996.

--- Page 361 ---
Chapter 29
Analysis of Breast, Back and Butterfly Strokes by
the Swimming Human Simulation Model SWUM
Motomu Nakashima!
' Department of Mechanical and Environmental Informatics, Graduate
School of Information Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Tech-
nology, 2-12-1 Ookayama, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 152-8552, Japan
Summary. In the preceding study, the swimming human simulation model
“SWUM” has been developed by the authors, and the analysis of standard
six beat crawl stroke has been conducted. In this paper, the analyses of
three strokes, that is, breast, back and butterfly strokes were conducted.
The swimming motion, velocity in the propulsive direction of the human
body, and the fluid force in the propulsive direction acting on the upper
and lower limbs were respectively shown for those three strokes. In addi-
tion, the stroke length and the propulsive efficiency of the four strokes
were investigated by the simulation. It was found that the stroke lengths of
the crawl, back and butterfly strokes in the simulation agree significantly
with the actual values, and that of the breaststroke becomes relatively
smaller. It was also found that the propulsive efficiency of the crawl, back
and butterfly strokes becomes around 0.2, although that of the breaststroke
becomes only 0.036.
Key words. Swimming, Simulation, Fluid Force, Propulsive Efficiency,
SWUM
1 Introduction
The authors have recently developed a simulation model for a self-
propelled swimmer “SWUM” (SWimming hUman Model), which can rep-
resent the dynamics of the whole body and which has the potential to be a
widely used tool for the analysis of various mechanical problems in human
swimming (Nakashima et al. 2007). In this model, the fluid force is con-
sidered as simplified modeled force, and the equations of motion of the
self-propelled swimmer’s body in the translational and rotational direc-
tions are solved by the time integration. As inputs, the body geometry and
relative body motion (joint motion) are given. As outputs, the swimming
speed, rolling and yawing motions, joint torque and so on are obtained. An
361

--- Page 362 ---
362
analysis of the six beat crawl stroke has been already conducted, in which
the joint motion data was input based on a video taken of an actual athlete
swimming. It was found that the swimming speed obtained in the simula-
tion agrees significantly with that of the video, indicating the validity of
the simulation model. The authors have also investigated detailed charac-
teristics of the six beat crawl, that is, the contribution of each fluid force
component and each body part to the thrust, and computed the propulsive
efficiency (Nakashima 2007). In this study, investigation similar to that
conducted on the crawl stroke was performed on the other three strokes;
those being: breast, back and butterfly strokes. In addition, comparison
among the four strokes was made from the viewpoint of mechanics.
2 Analysis Method
2.1 Overview of SWUM
In SWUM, the relative body motion as the joint angles is given for the
human body, which is modeled as rigid link segments. The absolute mo-
tion of the whole body is computed considering the unsteady fluid force
acting on the human body. The human body is represented by a series of
21 truncated elliptical cone segments. With respect to the fluid force, the
inertial force due to the added mass of the fluid, the drag force in the nor-
mal and tangential directions, and buoyancy are taken into account. In or-
der to compute the inertial force due to the added mass and the drag forces
in the normal and tangential directions, fluid force coefficients are in-
voked. These coefficients have been determined by an experiment in
which a model of a human limb was flapped in the water, measuring its
motion and fluid force. The details are described in the previous paper
(Nakashima et al. 2007).
2.2 Analysis Condition
The joint motions as input data for the simulation model were determined
based on videos of ‘model swimming’ (IPA 2004), which were produced
by the Japan Swimming Federation and open to the public for educational
purposes. Note that the swimming motions in the videos are not full
strength competitive ones because of their educational purposes. One cycle
of the swimming motion was divided into 18 frames. The joint angles at
each frame were manually determined so that the body position in the
video at the corresponding frame becomes as close to that in the simulation

--- Page 363 ---
363
as possible. The given number of degrees-of-freedom of the joint rotations
for breast stroke was 34 ; for back, 28 ; and for butterfly, 35.
All the quantities in the simulation were computed in a system normal-
ized by time, length, and density. Their reference values are, respectively,
stroke cycle, swimmer's stature, and the water density. The body geometry
was set as that of an average 20-29 year-old Japanese male. The body
height and weight are 1.705 m and 64.9 kg, respectively. The hydrostatic
lift, which is defined as the difference between the net buoyancy and body
weight, is 22.5 N (2.3 kgf). According to Chatard et al. (1990), the hydro-
static lift for swimmers are 17~29 N (1.7~3.0 kgf). The value of 22.5 N in
the present model is almost at the center of that range. The number of divi-
sions of each truncated elliptical cones for longitudinal and circumferential
directions were, respectively, 10 and 36. The time step was set as 0.002,
that is, 500 steps for one stroke cycle.
3 Results and Discussion
3.1 Breaststroke
Figure 1 shows the simulation results of the swimming motion for one cy-
cle after nine stroke cycles, that is, after the effect of initial condition dis-
appears. The water surface is colored with dark and pale colors alterna-
tively. The area width of one color represents half of the stroke length.
Therefore, the total width of one set of dark and pale areas corresponds to
the stroke length. The dark sticks from each of the swimmer’s body parts
represent the direction and magnitude of the fluid force, except buoyancy.
Figure 2 shows the velocity of the center of mass for the swimmer’s body
in the propulsive direction. Figure 3 shows the fluid force acting on the
right upper and lower limbs in the same direction. Note that the negative
value in these graphs corresponds to the positive propulsive speed and
thrust. From these figures, it is found that the swimmer’s body first accel-
erates due to the thrust generated by the hand at ¢ = 9.3, and accelerates
again significantly due to the large thrust generated by the kick of the legs.
For the breaststroke, it is generally known that the propulsive velocity has
two positive major peaks due to the upper and lower limbs. The peak value
due to the lower limb (kick) is known to be almost equal to or slightly
greater than that due to the upper limb (hand stroke) (Maglischo 2003).
However, the peak due to the lower limb in the simulation at ¢ = 9.7 is
smaller than that due to the upper limb at ¢ = 9.4. One possible reason for
this inconsistency may be that the thrust generated by the kick is underes-
timated in the simulation due to the modeling error for the fluid force.

--- Page 364 ---
364
h
Fig. 1. Simulation results of swimming motion for one cycle from the side view
(Breaststroke). a: = 9.0. b:=9.125. c: t=9.25. d: t=9.375. e: t= 9.5.
f: t= 9.625. g: t=9.75. h: t= 9.875.
o-
> 05>
8 
4
co)
> 
4-4
-15-
Fig. 2. Velocity of center of mass in propulsive direction (Breaststroke).

--- Page 365 ---
365
With respect to the fluid force components to the thrust, it is found that
the thrust of the upper limb is mainly generated by the normal drag force,
and the thrust of the lower limb is generated by the inertial force due to the
added mass of the fluid as well as the normal drag force. It 1s also found
that both the upper and lower limbs produce negative thrust at 
f= 9.5 and
9.6, respectively, that is, at the recovery motions for them. In particular,
the negative thrust by the upper limbs around ¢ = 9.5 seems to be unnatu-
rally large. This causes deceleration during t = 9.4~9.6, resulting the reduc-
tion of the averaged swimming speed.
Force
Force
b 
9 
92 
94 
96 
98 
10
Time
Fig. 3. Fluid force acting on right limbs in propulsive direction (Breaststroke).
a: upper limb. b: lower limb. Solid line: total of all components. Long-dashed
line: inertial force due to added mass. Short-dashed line: normal drag. Dot-dashed
line: tangential drag. Two-dot-dashed line: buoyancy.

--- Page 366 ---
366
3.2 Backstroke
Figure 4 shows the simulation results of the swimming motion for a half
cycle. Figure 5 shows the velocity of the center of mass for the swimmer’s
body in the propulsive direction. Figure 6 shows the fluid force acting on
the right upper and lower limbs in the same direction. It is found that the
thrust by the hand is large, the same as in the crawl stroke (Nakashima
2007), and it reaches its maximum, due to the normal drag force, at ¢ = 9.3,
that is, at the hand’s ‘push’ motion. Immediately following, the velocity
reaches its maximum. With respect to thrust of the lower limb, three major
negative peaks appear in the flutter kick, and the primary components of
them are found to be the inertial force due to the added mass and the nor-
mal drag.
Fig. 4. Simulation results of swimming motion for a half cycle from the side view
(Backstroke). a: t= 9.0. b: f=9.1. c: f=9.2. di t=9.3. e f=9.4.f1=9.5.

--- Page 367 ---
367
-0.5 4
Velocity
!
an|
9 
92 
94 
96 
98 
10
Time
Fig. 5. Velocity of center of mass in propulsive direction (Backstroke).
®
2
°o
Ww
a
®
2°
Ww
i a 
|
b 
9 
92 
94 
96 
98 
10
Time
Fig. 6. Fluid force acting on right limbs in propulsive direction (Backstroke).
a: upper limb. b: lower limb. Solid line: total of all components. Long-dashed
line: inertial force due to added mass. Short-dashed line: normal drag. Dot-dashed
line: tangential drag. Two-dot-dashed line: buoyancy.

--- Page 368 ---
368
3.3 Butterfly Stroke
Figure 7 shows the simulation results of the swimming motion for one cy-
cle. Figure 8 shows the velocity of the center of mass for the swimmer’s
body in the propulsive direction. Figure 9 shows the fluid force acting on
the right lower and upper limbs in the same direction. With respect to the
upper limb, it is found that the large thrust is generated by the hand’s mo-
tion, which starts from ¢ = 9.2, reaches its peak at t = 9.55; with the veloc-
ity reaching its peak concomitantly. With respect to the lower limb, it is
found that the thrust is generated by the weaker kick at t= 9.45, and by the
stronger one at ¢ = 9.9. It is also found that almost all the thrust by the up-
per limb is due to the normal drag force, and the thrust by the lower limb is
generated by the inertial force due to added mass and the normal drag
force.
Fig. 7. Simulation results of swimming motion for one cycle from the side view
(Butterfly stroke). a: 
+= 9.0. b: #=9.125. e: =9.25. d: t=9.375. e: t=9.5,
f: = 9.625. g: t=9.75. h: t= 9.875.

--- Page 369 ---
369
Velocity
4
fe) 
92 
94 
96 
98 
10
Time
Fig. 8. Velocity in propulsive direction (Butterfly stroke).
0.01 
-
®
2
°o
Ww
rn
a 
9 
92 
94 
96 
98 
10
Time
0.01 
-
0-4
®
o 
TM
°
uw -0.01 
4
-0.02 
4
9 
9.2 
9.4 
9.6 
9.8 
10
Time
Fig. 9. Fluid force acting on right limbs in propulsive direction (Butterfly stroke).
a: upper limb. b: lower limb. Solid line: total of all components. Long-dashed
line: inertial force due to added mass. Short-dashed line: normal drag. Dot-dashed
line: tangential drag. Two-dot-dashed line: buoyancy.

--- Page 370 ---
370
3.4 Comparison Among Four Strokes
Based on the analyses in the previous sections, the comparison between
the four strokes including the crawl is made in this section. Figure 10
shows the results of comparison for the normalized stroke length, which
represents the distance traveled in one stroke cycle divided by the swim-
mer’s stature. The actual values of the normalized stroke length, which
were estimated from the video, are also shown in the figure. The simula-
tion results are found to agree significantly with the actual values for the
three strokes of the crawl, back, and butterfly strokes. This agreement in-
dicates the validity of the simulation model. However, the simulation re-
sult for the breaststroke is considerably smaller (about 35%) than the ac-
tual value. Two possible reasons for this discrepancy are that the thrust due
to the kick is underestimated, and that the drag of the upper limbs in the
recovery motion reduces the stroke length, as stated in section 3.1.
Next, Fig. 11 shows the analysis results of the propulsive efficiency;
which is defined by:
_UT
P
where U, T, and P respectively represent the swimming speed averaged in
one cycle, the drag acting on the swimmer’s body towed at the speed U
with the gliding position, and the averaged mechanical power consumed
by the swimmer. From the figure, it is found that the values of 7 are about
0.2 for the crawl, back, and butterfly strokes, whereas it is considerably
smaller (about 0.036) for the breaststroke. Even if it is acknowledged that
the stroke length in the simulation becomes smaller as shown in Fig. 10, it
can still be said that the breaststroke is less efficient than the other three
strokes.
Note that the propulsive efficiency defined in this study corresponds to
7 
(1)
1.6 
O Simulation 0 Actual
1.4 
a 
——,
1.2 
[|
1
08
206
204
0.2
0
troke 
length
Crawl 
Breast 
Back 
Butterfly
Stroke
Fig. 10. Results of normalized stroke length for four strokes.

--- Page 371 ---
371
0.25
>
2 
02 
=
pf
o= 0.15 
|
$3 
0.1
a
£ 0.05
0 
| 
|
Crawl 
Breast 
Back 
Butterfly
Stroke
Fig. 11. Results of propulsive efficiency for four strokes.
the ‘propelling efficiency’ in Toussaint et al. (1988), and they reported its
value to be 0.46~0.77 for the crawl due to their subjective experiment. The
simulation results in this study are considerably smaller than those. It is
possible that the present simulation underestimates the propulsive effi-
ciency by some reasons. However, it may be also possible that the previ-
ous results of 0.46~0.77 overestimate it. For example, the propulsive effi-
ciency of a high-performance-type screw propeller is generally known to
be about 0.7. The propulsive efficiency of a dolphin robot, which has been
developed by the authors, and has a streamlined body and a wing-shaped
caudal fin, was also found to be 0.7 in the best condition (Nakashima and
Ono 2002). It is hard to believe that the propulsive efficiency of the human
swimming may exceed those of the screw propeller and the dolphin-type
swimming since human has neither the screw propeller, nor the stream-
lined body, nor the wing-shaped fin. Further investigation is undoubtedly
necessary in order to conclude this discussion.
4 Conclusions
In this paper, the breast, back, and butterfly strokes were analyzed using
the swimming human simulation model SWUM. In addition, a comparison
was made among the four strokes including the crawl from the viewpoint
of mechanics. Findings are summarized as follows:
1. In the simulation of the breaststroke, the thrust due to the kick tends
to be underestimated and the negative thrust by the upper lilmbs tends
to be overestimated. Therefore, the swimming speed in the simulation
becomes 35% less than the actual value.
2. The swimming speeds of the crawl, back, and butterfly strokes agree
significantly with the actual values, indicating the validity of the

--- Page 372 ---
372
simulation model.
3. As a result of the comparison among the four strokes, it is found that
the propulsive efficiency is about 0.2 for the crawl, back, and
butterfly strokes, whereas it is considerably smaller (about 0.036) for
the breaststroke.
All information about SWUM and its implementation software Swum-
suit, as well as the animation of the simulation results which are shown in
this paper, are open to the public at the website (http:/(www.swum.org/).
References
Chatard JC, Lavoie JM, Lacour JR (1990) Analysis of determinants of
swimming economy in front crawl. Eur. J. of Appl. Physiology, 61:88-92
IPA (Information-technology Promotion Agency, Japan) (2004)
http://www2.edu.ipa.go.jp/gz/hlswim/ (in Japanese)
(Videos of each stroke are located as below:
Crawl: http://www2.edu.ipa.go.jp/gz/hlswim/h1kn20/hicr10/hicri1.mpg,
Breast: http://www?2.edu.ipa.go.jp/gz/h1 swim/h] br00/h1 br10/h1 brl 1.mpg,
Back: http://www?2.edu.ipa.go.jp/gz/hl swim/h1ba00/h1 
bal 0/h1bal 1.mpg,
Butterfly: http://www2.edu.ipa.go.jp/gz/hl 
swim/h]1 bu00/h1 bul0
/hibul L.mpg)
Maglischo EW (2003) Swimming fastest. Human Kinetics, pp 228-231
Nakashima M (2007) Mechanical study of standard six beat front crawl
swimming by using swimming human simulation model. J. Fluid Science
and Technology, (in press)
Nakashima M, Ono K (2002) Development of a two-Joint dolphin robot.
In: Ayers J, Davis JL, Rudolph A (Eds) Neurotechnology for biomimetic
robots, MIT Press, Cambridge Massachusetts, pp 309-324
Nakashima M, Miura Y, Satou K (2007) Development of swimming hu-
man simulation model considering rigid body dynamics and unsteady fluid
force for whole body. J. Fluid Science and Technology, 2(1):56-67
Toussaint HM, Beelen A, Rodenburg A et al. (1988) Propelling efficiency
of front-crawl swimming. J. Appl. Physiol. 65:2506-2512

--- Page 373 ---
Chapter 30
Research in Fluid Dynamical Specification of
Hand Palms in Freestyle Swimming
Shinichiro Ito!
' Department of Mechanical Engineering, The National Defense Academy,
1-10-20 Hashirimizu, Yokosuka, 239-8686, Japan
Summary. The characteristics of lift and drag forces are influenced by the
configuration of a hand palm. The fluid dynamical characteristics of hand
palms and that of a delta wing are compared experimentally. Delta wing is
a simplified model of a hand palm. Three-dimensional velocity distribution
of the wake flow was measured by X shaped hot wire probe. The results
of these experiments showed clearly that the characteristics of hand palms
in swimming were similar to that of delta wings.
Key words. Swimming, Hand, Configuration, Delta wing, Fluid Dynamic
Characteristics
1 Introduction
James Counsilman (1968) proposed S-shaped pull swimming style is suit-
able for the front crawl. This S-shaped pull shown in Fig. 1 uses the resul-
tant force of the lift and drag as an impellent. Lately, Sanders (1997) stated
that competitive swimmers seem to use a drag type stroke rather than S-
shaped pull stroke in his experimental research. Moreover, the author (Ito
& Okuno, 2003) introduced I-shaped pull stroke, also indicated in Fig. 1,
obtained larger thrust force than S-shaped. Hand palms generate the main
propelling force in swimming. The characteristics of lift and drag forces
vary according to the configuration of hand palm as the author investigated
(2004). The difference of the characteristics is remarkable when fingers are
opened or closed.
373

--- Page 374 ---
374
Catch 
s 
Catch
Drag pull 
: 
Sculling
Pull
Drag pull
A
Finish 
; 
Finish
Drag pull 
. 
Sculling
I-Shaped pull form
Sueeeeeees 
S-Shaped pull form
The left hand in this figure is on the water surface. This is
modified figure of Maglischo(1993).
Fig. 1. Stroke pattern of I-Shaped and S-Shaped pull.in freestyle swimming
AGIAN
Hand A 
Hand C 
Delta Wing
Fig. 2. Test replicas used in the experiment
2 Methods
2.1 Aerodynamic Characteristics
Two kinds of hand replicas and a delta wing of a flat plate with its vertical
angle of 39.5 degrees are used as measuring objects shown in Figs.2. Hand

--- Page 375 ---
375
A is a flat-shaped palm with finger spread about 3mm apart. This shape is
a popular configuration among competitive swimmers. Hand C 
is a flat
palm with fingers closed. Delta wing is a simplified model of Hand C. The
aerodynamic characteristics were measured on the angle of attack @ of the
above objects from 0° to 90° in every 1° by a 3-component load cells. For
the hand replicas, three types of sweepback angle, 
yw =45°, 90° and 135°,
were adopted to simulate S shaped pull stroke. The sweepback angle y
was defined by Schleihauf (1979), as middle finger faces to a leading
direction as 90° in Fig.3. These sweepback angles, y=45°, 90° and 135°,
correspond to the movement of arms. With the angle y—45°, the arm
moves outward from the body axis. With the angle wof 90°, it moves
parallel to the body axis. With the angle of 135°, it moves inward to the
body axis respectively. 
Concerning the delta wing, the aero-dynamic
characteristics were measured on y=90°.
2.2 Velocity Distribution in the Wake Flow
Furthermore, 3D-velocity distribution in the wake flow was measured with
a X shaped hot wire probe at four sections of 1/42 interval of the model
length L behind the center of the model in each wake flow shown in Fig.4.
Velocity was measured at every 1cm of y and z directions in each cross
section. Each experiment was performed at the wind velocity of 20m/s
Fig. 3. Sweepback angle y defined 
Fig. 4. Velocity measurement
by Schlethauf (1979) 
area in the wake flow behind
the hand replica.

--- Page 376 ---
376
(R=3.4x10°), of which the Reynolds number is almost as same as
competitive free style swimming speed underwater.
3 Results and Discussions
3.1 Aerodynamic Characteristics
Each of Figure 5 shows drag-lift curves or polar curves of (a) Hand A with
fingers spread, (b) Hand C with fingers closed and (c) Delta wing respec-
tively. Markers are shown every 5 degrees in the angle of attack @ in
respective curves. The polar curve is utilized to characterize the aerody-
namic specification of wings. A radius of Co is a length from the origin to
the point at y=90° and the angle of attack a=90° as an index of maximal
drag force. Comparing with the configurations of the polar curves of each
objects, the curves of Fig. 5(b) and Fig. 5(c) have "lumps" near the point
a=45° with discontinuous points in about a=50°. However, the curves of
Fig. 5(a) do not have discontinuous points as others have. The difference
of these curves may be caused by the leakage of flow from the pressure
side (palm) to the suction side (the back of the hand) due to the finger
gaps.
0.8 
: 
— 
0.8 —— ee
ee 
AS 
45°
+ 
~ 
4 
L 
x, 
ti 
a=
0.6 
/ 
Hand A 
0.6 
PF
l 
$ 
‘ 
ZY 
$ 
Hand C
L 
SS)
2 4r 
o 4 
P 
$
s 
| 
St 
hfe 
{
0.2} 
0.2} 
° 
4
H 
|
} 
'
| 
o 
:
0 Oh 
5 
cocccccoccccad 
0 OF 
REE
| 
Sweep Back Angle 
a= | 
[ 
Sweep Back Angle 7
—0.2- 
° 
0.2} 
a=
| 
—_——_ 
°
| 
—--s—-- 135° 
Mid Finger Center 
[ 
—-—s-—-- 135 
Mid/Finger Center
$0 02 04 
06 
08 
10 
12 
045 
02 
04 
06 
08 
10 12
Cp 
Cp
(a) Hand A: Fingers spread 
(b) Hand C: Fingers closed
Fig. 5. Difference of polar curves among the hand shapes and wing shape.

--- Page 377 ---
377
121
1.0
08:
C.9.6}
0.4
0.2; 
6
DeltaWing y=90
Fe 
ee Se Se Se Se ee SS 
SS
0.0 0204 06 08 10 12 74
Cp
(c) Delta wing
Fig. 5. Difference of polar curves among the hand shapes and wing shape.
3.2 Velocity Distribution and Vorticity Contour in the Wake
Flow
Velocity distribution maps and vorticity contour maps of each model are
shown in Figs. 6 and Figs. 7 Each of them are the aspects of wake flow
located in the center of the objects and in the 3/4 objects length L behind
from the center of the objects respectively. Although each condition was in
the maximum lift, a big pair of vortices appeared in the left and right side
of the center of the object in each graph. Especially, these vortices in Figs.
6 showed a big separation of flow occurred in the suction side, the upper
side, of the object although the maximum lift occurred. According to the
lift occurrence mechanism in two-dimensional wing, separations never oc-
cur in the suction side or upper side of the wing. However, three dimen-
sional wings like delta wings, the mechanism of occurrence of the lift force
is different from that of two dimensional wings. Flow separation is a big
factor to obtain a large lift force. The separation of the leading edge devel-
ops to a pair of large vertical vortices. These vertical vortices play a big
roll to obtain high lift force.
It is natural that the pair of the vortex of the delta wing is symmetrical be-
cause of the symmetric plane form of the wing in Fig 6(c). However, con-
cerning the strength of the vortices of hand palms, the strength on the little
finger side is stronger than that on the thumb side. This is because a verti-
cal vortex was dispersed by a flow which passed through a finger gap be-
tween a thumb and a forefinger from the palm side to the back side.

--- Page 378 ---
378
wand 
A, 
a=45° 
Hand A, a=45° Vorticity
5 
10 
15 
20 
25 
30
Velocity distribution map 
Vorticity contour map
(a) Hand A: Fingers spread, a=45°
Hand 
C, a=40° Vorticity
y
Ne 
aooh
Velocity distribution map 
Vorticity contour map
(b) Hand C: Fingers closed, a=40°
Delta 
Wing, a=36° Vorticity
5 
10 
15 
20 
2 
30
Velocity distribution map 
Vorticity contour map
(c) Delta wing, a=36°
<-IIL
<-142,
a
rad/s
> 140,
< 109,
A
Bey
ad
-I,
142.
A
S
<-Iil.
<-142.
Fig.6. Velocity vector and vorticity of the wake flowat the center of
the hand

--- Page 379 ---
Hand 
A, a=45° Vorticity
5 
10 
15 
20 
2 
30
ry A
Velocity distribution map _ Vorticity contour map
(a) Hand A: Fingers spread, a=45°
a=40° Vorticity
Velocity distribution map —_ Vorticity contour map
(b) Hand C: Fingers closed, a=40°
Delta 
Wing, a=36° Vorticity
0.4 
0.6 
1.8 
1 
5 
lo 
1s
z
Velocity distribution map _ Vorticity contour map
(c) Delta wing, a=36°
20 
25 
»
379
rad/s
El
Fig. 7. Velocity vector and vorticity of the wake at 3/42 behind
the center of the hand
> 179.
< 179.
< 139.
< 59,
< 19,
<-21.
<-61.
<-101.
<-l4l,
<-181,

--- Page 380 ---
380
Fig. 8. Oil flow pattern and its explanation.
Used with Permission from www.aerodyn.org
3.3 Oil Film Experiment in the Suction Side of Delta Wing
The oil film pattern of the flow in a=36° were shown in Fig.8 of which the
condition was in the neighborhood of the maximum lift point. As for the
neighborhood of the maximum lift point, straight lines along the main
stream should have appeared with no separation case of a two-dimensional
wing. However, as for the delta wing, separation occurred from the whole
leading edge as mentioned in the section of velocity distribution. The sepa-
ration re-attached in the central side of the wing plane. Figure 8 describes
the flow aspect in this condition. Gain of the lift force on a high angle of
attack in the delta wing was caused by the pressure decline due to these
vertical vortices. In other words, as for the delta wing, lift force is obtained
by the big separation-re-attachment mechanism.
4 Conclusions
Lift and drag generation mechanism of a hand palm can be analogized
with that of the delta wing because of the similar configurations of polar
curves and velocity distribution around the objects.

--- Page 381 ---
381
References
Counsilman, J.E. (1968), Science of Swimming. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs,
N.J.
Ito, S., Okuno, K. (2003), 4 Fluid dynamical consideration for arm stroke in
swimming, Biomechanics and Medicine in Swimming IX, pp.39-44, Pub. de l'univ.
de Saint-Etienne.
Ito, S. (2004). Optimal Hand Shape for Competitive Free Style Swimming, The
Engineering of Sport 5 Vol.1, pp.580-586, International Sport Engineering
Association.
Maglischo, E. W. (1993), Swimming Even Faster, Mayfield Publishing Company,
Mountain View, CA, p315.
Schleihauf, R.E. (1979), 4 hydrodynamic analysis of swimming propulsion,
Swimming III, pp70-109. University Park Press, Baltimore.
Antonio Filippone, http://www.aerodyn.org/W ings/delta.html#separation

--- Page 382 ---
Chapter 31
Flexural Vibration of a Jump Ski in Flight
Akira Shionoya', Toshio Kobayashi’, Toshinori Saijo', Kenichiro Ogata’,
and Toshiaki Matsuhashi’
' Department of Sport Engineering and Physical Education, Health Care
Center, Graduate School of Engineering, Nagaoka University of Technol-
ogy, 1603-1, Kamitomioka, Nagaoka, Niigata, 940-2188, Japan
Summary. The purposes of this study were to develop a system for meas-
uring the flexural vibration of a jump ski in flight and to measure the vi-
bration of a ski in flight using this system. To measure the flexural vibra-
tion of a jump ski in flight, accelerometers were installed on a ski plate. By
means of accelerometers, vibrations of a ski were detected in flight and
were recorded to a data recorder. After flight this data was transferred to a
computer, after which it was transformed into a power spectrum by means
of FFT. In actual flight, an amplifier and a data recorder were inserted into
a backpack attached to a jumper’s jump suit. The vibrations were analyzed
in the following phases; approach, take off, flight and landing. From ap-
proach to landing, few natural vibration frequencies between 10 and
200[Hz], as estimated by the impulse response, were detected. A low fre-
quency of about 10 [Hz] was detected in nearly every phases. Furthermore,
at landing, a low frequency components band between 40 and 70 [Hz] was
detected at the top of the ski, because the jumper landed on the tail of the
ski. In addition an acceleration amplitude of over 9800[m/sec’] was de-
tected at the top of a ski in landing.
Key words. Flexural vibration, FFT, Frequency, Jump Ski, Flight
1 Introduction
Computer simulation is a very useful procedure to understand phenomena
in sports. It has been used on various sports subjects as follows; a trajec-
tory analysis of a kicked ball in soccer, a vibration analysis of a tennis
racket in impact, a fluid dynamics analysis in swimming, a flight distance
optimization in ski jumping and so on. However, the objects in these simu-
lations have been calculated as rigid bodies because it has been easy to
383

--- Page 383 ---
384
make calculations with respect to rigid bodies in simulation but difficult to
measure an object’s physical phenomenon. For example, in a flight simula-
tion of ski jumping, the body of a human jumper or a ski plate has been
calculated as a rigid body.
In actual ski flight studies, human muscular activity has frequently been
studied using an EMG (Electromyogram). The EMG measurement in flight
is easy because a telemeter system or a small-size and lightweight data re-
corder for the EMG measurement has already been developed and is on the
market. A system for measuring physical phenomena such as the vibration
of a ski plate in flight, however, has not been developed because such a
system is considerably bigger than the EMG measurement system, and the
present system is too big and heavy to use in actual ski flight.
The purposes of this study are to develop a system for measuring the
flexural vibration of a jump ski in flight and to measure the
vibration of a jump ski in flight using this system.
2 Development the System and Measurement
2.1 Impulse Response of Jump Ski
Fig.1 shows the system for measuring the impulse response of a jump ski.
To measure the impulse response of a ski, a ski was suspended and accel-
erometers (PCB PIEZOTRONICS corporation made; 352B10 type) were
installed on the top, center and tail of the ski. An impulse was applied to
the ski using an impulse hummer (PCB PIEZOTRONICS corporation) and
then, by means of accelerometers, the vibrations of the ski were detected.
Through an amplifier (PCB PIEZOTRONICS corporation; Signal condi-
tioner 480B10) and a units (ELMEC corporation), the vibrations were
transformed by an A/D converter and were transferred to a personal com-
puter (DELL corporation; INSPIRON 5100) and then transformed into a
power spectrum by means of the fast fourier transform ( FFT ) program-
ming (ELMEC corporation; WAAP-WIN) installed on a personal com-
puter.
Fig.2 shows the jump ski used in this impulse response experiment.

--- Page 384 ---
385
Accelerometer
Impulse Point>
Impulse |Hammer
Personal Computer
4
_
Subject 
x
A/D Converter
Fig.1. An outline of the system for measuring the impulse response of a jump ski
Fig.2. The jump ski used in the impulse response experiment in this study
2.2 Vibration Measurement in Ski Flight
Fig.3 shows the outline of the system developed for measuring the
vibration of a jump ski in ski flight. To measure the vibration in flight, two
of the above-mentioned accelerometers (PCB PIEZOTRONICS corpora-
tion; 352B10 type) were installed to a jump ski. One
accelerometer was installed on the top of the ski and another one was on
the tail. By means of accelerometers, the vibrations of a jump ski were
detected in flight. Through the above-mentioned amplifier (PCB
PIEZOTRONICS corporation; Signal conditioner 480B10),
vibrations were recorded to a small-size and lightweight data recorder (NF
circuit; model EZ7510). In flight, an amplifier and a
data recorder were inserted into a backpack and then the subject jumped
with this backpack attached to the back on his jump suit. The total weight
of this backpack was within 2.0kg. After flight, the vibration data were
transferred from a data recorder to a personal computer (DELL corpora-
tion ; INSPIRON 5100), after being processed by A/D converter they were
transformed into a power spectrum by means of the fast fourier

--- Page 385 ---
386
transform (FFT) program (ELMEC corporation; WAAP-WIN) installed
into a personal computer as the impulse response experiment.
The length of the ski used in this study (Fig.l) was 2.5m and the weight
was 2.5kg. Subject was a junior elite jumper who placed 5" in an inter-
high school championship and was designated to train by the Niigata Ski
Association. The actual flight experiment was performed using a medium-
hill schanze.
From Accelerometer
Data recorder
TT 
Amplifier
In the back pack fu
J
Fig.3. An outline of the system developed for measuring the vibration of a jump
ski in actual flight and the experiment using this system.
3 Results
3.1 Impulse Response of Jump Ski
Fig.4 shows the acceleration wave in the top of a jump ski in the impulse
response measurement. Damping ratio( 6 ) was calculated from this accel-
eration wave as follows;
b= i In“
m 
Dam
where a represents amplitude, n represents number of wave, m=n/T(T
represents time).
Tabel.1 shows the damping ratio in each position of the ski. The ratio at
the top was 0.174; the highest ratio.
Fig.5 shows the vibration frequencies of the jump ski in the impulse

--- Page 386 ---
387
response. The upper figure is the frequency in the top of a ski, the middle
is figure is that in the center and the bottom figure is that in the tail. From
these results, the natural frequencies in this ski were estimated between
about 10 (12[Hz]) and 200[Hz] (Fig.6). The frequency of the maximum
density in both the top and the center was 153 [Hz]. In the tail, this fre-
quency was 2" density.
1500
1000
500
o 
| 
Oe 
re 
|
-500
-1000
Acceleration(m/see’ 
)
-1500
-2000
Time (sec)
Fig.4. Acceleration wave in top of a jump ski in impulse response
Table.1. Damping ratio in each position of a jump ski.
First amplitude (nv/s?) | 11" amplitude (m/s) 
Damping
Top 
2662.09 
469.06 
0.174
center 
721.87 
265.18 
0.100
Tail 
1626.44 
409.33 
0.138
3.2 Vibration Measurement in Actual Ski Flight
Fig.7 shows the acceleration amplitude of a jump ski in approach, flight
and landing. The acceleration amplitude on approach was higher than that
of the flight phase. From immediately after take off, it became lower. In
flight, the jumper lifted the top of the ski immediately after take off and
then took flight, falling along the landing hill. The base line of the accel-
eration curve fell in proportion to the flight time (middle figure in Fig.7).
Furthermore, on landing, an acceleration amplitude of over 9800[m/sec’]
was detected in the top of a ski.
Fig.8 shows the vibration frequency of a jump ski on approach, flight
and landing. On approach, few natural vibration frequencies between 10
and 200[Hz], as estimated by the impulse response, were detected. In
flight, a low frequency of about 10 [Hz] was mainly detected (Fig.9). The
above-mentioned natural vibration frequencies were detected 
a moment
immediately after take off. However, few such frequencies were

--- Page 387 ---
388
Frequency in Top [Hz]
500
0.1
0.01
0.001
0.0001
0.00001
0.000001
0.0000001
0.00000001
1000 
1500 
2000 
2500
Frequency in center [Hz]
500
0.1
0.01
1000 
1500 
2000 
2500
0.001
0.0001
0.00001
0.000001
0,0000001 
ee
0,00000001
30%
Frequency in tail [Hz]
1
500
01
0.01
0.001
0.0001
0.00001
0.000001
0.0000001
1000 
1500 
2000 
2500
li
30
0.00000001
Fig.5. Vibration frequency in the impulse response of jump ski
( Logarithmic axis )

--- Page 388 ---
389
P
LiesWG
HY 
Nes
Fig.6. Vibration frequency in the top of a jump ski in impulse response
detected in flight. Furthermore, on landing, low frequency
components between 40 and 70 [Hz] were detected in the top of the ski,
because the jumper landed from the tail of ski in landing.
In order to clarify the details of the frequency components, the
amplitude of the frequency in Fig.6 and 9 is indicated by the logarithmic
axis.
Discussion
As mentioned above, in flight simulation of ski jumping, the body of a
human jumper or a ski has been calculated as a rigid body, because it has
been easy to apply calculations to a rigid body in simulation and difficult
to measure a ski’s physical phenomena in flight.
In actual ski flight studies, human muscular activity has frequently been
studied using the EMG (Electromyogram) measurement. The EMG meas-
urement has been easy to apply in flight, because a telemeter system or a
small-size and lightweight data recorder for the EMG measurement has al-
ready been developed and is already on the market. A system for measur-
ing physical phenomena such as the vibration of a ski plate in flight, how-
ever, has been not developed because such a system is considerably bigger
than the EMG measurement system, and subjects have not been able to
jump using the present system.

--- Page 389 ---
390
Approarch gravity
140
120
Ig]
80
60
20
Acceleration
&}
0.2 
1 
1.2 
14 
1.6
-20
Time [sec]
Flight gravity
Igl
Acceleration
-60
Time [sec]
Landing gravity
1200
nigh
8 8 8
Acceleratio
A$ I 
ATE
1.45 
15 
1.55 
4.6 
1.65
Time [sec]
Fig.7. The accelerations of a jump ski in the upper figure to approach, the middle
to flight and the bottom to landing.

--- Page 390 ---
Frequency [Hz]
O41
0.01
0.001
0.0001
0.00001
0.00000"
0.0000001
500 
1000 
1500 
2000 
2500 
3000
Mn ll
Frequency [Hz]
0.01
\
0.001 i Ao
0.0001 
|
0.00001 
|
0.000001 
|
0.000001 
|
0.00000001 
L
500 
1000 
1500 
2000 
2500 
3000
V
\ 
LA
\ foal 
\
y 
Ne 
|
V
/
0.1
0.01
0.001
0.0001
0.00001
0.000001
0.0000001
0.00000001
Frequency |Hz]
500 
1000 
1500 
2000 
2500 
3000
NEPA Pdeyeih 
tad
391
Fig.8. The vibration frequency of a ski in the upper figure to approach,
the middle to flight and the bottom to landing.
( Logarithmic axis )

--- Page 391 ---
392
0.0025
0.002
0.0015
Power 
Spectrum
0.0005
| 
1 
. 
Te 
:
‘ 
, 
| 
; 
: 
ey
0 ea WY 
Ba 
: 
ae 
yt 
: 
i 
3 
A 
verruy ss"
0 
500 
1000 
1500 
2000 
2500 
3000 
3500 
4000 
4500 
5000
Frequency (Hz)
Fig.9. The vibration frequency of jump ski in flight
The first purpose of this study was to develop a system for measuring
the flexural vibration of a jump ski in actual ski flight. The system devel-
oped in this study was within 2.0kg and could measure the flexural vibra-
tion of a ski plate without negative effects on the flight performance of a
jumper in the medium-hill schanze. In an normal-hill or the large-hill
schanze, however, the weight of this system may yield negative effects on
the flight performance. Recently, jump skis which are unequipped with
self-propulsion mechanisms such as a jet engine, have tended to be ultra-
lightweight. The specific gravity of the jump ski in this study was 0.54
[g/cm’] and was ultra-lightweight. Furthermore, the weight of a jumper has
tended to be lightweight in comparison with 10 years ago in order to de-
crease the gravitational force. 
Therefore, a ski jumper has been required
relatively high muscular strength per unit. These tendencies have based on
the principle of the ideal flight object. According to these tendencies and in
order to avoid negative effects on the performance in flight, the trend to-
ward to lightweight system is likely to continue into the foreseeable future
(The newest system in 2007 has a weight of 0.75kgw. Refereed in
Shionoya(2007)). 
|
The second purpose of this study was to measure the flexural vibration
of a jump ski in flight using the developed system. As mentioned above,
the system in this study could measure the flexural vibration of a ski plate
without negative impact on the flight performance of a jumper on a me-
dium-hill schanze. In alpine ski, the vibration of a ski plate is a very im-
portant factor in ski driving (=sliding) and controlling. As in the previous
studies, the natural frequencies of an alpine ski plate were between 50 and

--- Page 392 ---
393
200[Hz] in the impulse response. Furthermore in actual skiing, a frequency
range of between 100 and 200[Hz] was detected when an expert skier was
skiing. On the other hand, this frequency range was not detected when a
non-expert skier was skiing. It has been thought that these phenomena
were related to the physical principle of a ski sliding. When the amplitude
of the frequencies between 100 and 200[Hz] of a ski plate in skiing is low,
the driving velocity in skiing is remarkably slow, because the contact times
between the ski and snow surface increases, and then with it the amount of
the snow surface destruction. Frequencies over 100[Hz] in skiing have
been thought to be necessary for effective ski driving performance.
On the other hand, the natural frequencies of a jump ski were estimated
between 10 and 200[Hz] in this study. However, these frequencies were
not detected in flight. Furthermore, these were not detected from approach
to landing except for a brief moment immediately after take off. The max1-
mum frequency of a jump ski in approach and flight was almost 10[Hz].
The previous alpine ski studies mentioned above suggest that the driving
performance of skis to the present time has been less than optimal, because
the contact time between a ski and snow surface —and the amount of snow
surface destruction--has increased in 10[Hz] of the frequency. A Japanese
ski jumper, who was participated in the Winter Games Olympics, remarked
that jump ski plates having a high driving performance frequently suffered
from low flight performance. On the other hand, he noted the reverse was
also true-i.e., 
that those with low driving performance often had high
flight performance, too. These remarks are of similar interest as the results
of the vibration frequency of a jump ski in flight.
It is not understood, however, what frequencies are necessary (or not)
for a ski jump from this study alone. The natural frequencies may be an in-
dex for the most fitted physical characteristics of a jump ski, as is the case
with an alpine ski. How to optimize the necessary frequency or the most
fitted physical characteristics in a jump ski is a subject worthy of future
consideration.
5 Conclusion
This study is summarized as follows;
1) The system for measuring the vibration of a jump ski in flight was de-
veloped and the flexural vibration of a jump ski in actual flight was meas-
ured on a medium-hill schanze using this system.

--- Page 393 ---
394
2) The acceleration amplitude on approach was higher than that in flight.
Immediately after take off, however, the acceleration amplitude became
lower. Natural vibration frequencies, as estimated in the impulse response,
were not detected in approach, flight and landing.
3) In flight, a jumper lifted the top of his ski immediately after take off and
then took a flight, falling along the landing hill, the base line of the accel-
eration curve fell in accordance with flight time. The natural vibration fre-
quencies were detected for a brief moment of the immediately after take
off. These frequencies, however, were not detected in flight.
4) At landing, the acceleration amplitude of over 9800[m/sec”] was de-
tected at the top of the ski. Furthermore, low frequencies between 40 and
70 [Hz] were detected at the top of a ski at landing, because the jumper
landed on the tail of ski.
5) How to create an even light-weight system and how to optimize the
necessary frequency or the most fitted physical characteristics in a jump
ski will be subjects of future research.
References
Asai.T (1998) Computational fluid dynamics analysis of the V style ski jumping”
DESCENTE SPORTS SCIENCE. Vol.19, pp246-253.
Kitamura.T (2006) My preparation for World Nordic Ski Championship. 30th an-
niversary lecture of Nagaoka University of Technology.
Physical Education Instruction Center,(1992) “ EMG analysis of International elite
ski jumper in Japan in actual ski jump” The bulletin of Physical education instruc-
tion center in Hokkaido University. Vol.4, pp49-62.
Physical Education Instruction Center,(1993) ““ EMG study on V style ski jump-
ing” The bulletin of Physical education instruction center in Hokkaido University.
VolL.5, pp17-21.
Sakata.T., et al(2000} “Improvement for damping properties of a ski” Proceedings
of the Symposium on Sports Engineering. No.00-38, pp167-169.
Shionoya.A (2005) Flexural vibration analysis of ski plate in curving turn. The
impact technology on sport. Vol.1, pp131-136,2005.
Shionoya.A (2007) Flexural vibration of a jump ski in actual ski flight.
Proceedings of the International conference on winter sport ( Commemorative
conference on Sapporo World Nordic Ski Championship in 2007). In print.
Tanahashi.T (1992) “Mechanism of ski-sliding-Effects of materials and vibration
on friction-“* Mechanical Engineers. Vol.95(888), pp45-48.

--- Page 394 ---
Subject Index
2-D waving plate 
247
3D image 
131, 132
3-D locomotion ability 
247
A
ABS resin 
307, 315, 316, 318
accelerating 
247
accelerometer 
383-385
acoustic data logger 
118, 119
actual flight 
383, 386, 393
actuator 
221, 222, 224, 225,
228-232
added mass 
362, 365, 366,
368
aerodynamic force 
193-200,
204
aerodynamic forces 
333, 334
aerodynamics 
179
amplifier 
129-131, 138,
383-385
amplitude envelope 
172, 173
analysis 
361, 362, 370
angle of attack 
320, 321,
324-326
angled wavy plate 
91, 92, 97,
101, 102
anguilliform swimming 
167,
168, 177
angular velocity 
ll
animal propulsion 
143, 152
aquarium 
79-81, 89
aracanid fishes 
56, 57
arbitrary 
155, 157
artificial flukes 
79, 80, 90
artificial wings 
307, 315~317
asymmetry 
3,10
asymptotic travelling speed 
161
asynchronous 
129, 130
athletic motion 
333
automatic control 
247
automatic motion control 
4\,
42
avoiding reaction 
43-45
B
backbone 
221, 223, 224, 228
backpack 
383, 385
backstroke 
366
bacterium 
10, 13, 14
band pass filter 
119
base model 
221-223, 226,
231
bee 
129-131, 138
behavior 
117-120, 123, 125
Bernoulli function 
336
bifurcation diagram 
297
bioinspired Oscillating Fin
259
biological interaction 
17
biomechanics 
79
biomimetic 
205, 206, 213,
283, 284
biomimetic motions 
247
biomimetic robot 
295, 296,
305, 306
biomimetic robot fish 
247,
248, 252, 255, 257
biomimetic sonar 
117, 125
biomimetic Underwater Vehicle
271-273
biomimetics 
221
bio-mimicry 
91
biosonar 
117, 118, 120, 125
Biot-Savart law 
333-335, 343
395

--- Page 395 ---
396
bird wrasse 
205, 208-210,
284-286
blue laser 
41-43
body geometry 
361, 363
body-fitted curvilinear coordinate
system 
157
bony fishes 
53, 55, 57, 61, 62
bottlenose dolphin 
79, 80, 90
bottom-heavy squirmer 
17,
2427
boundary element analysis 
3
boundary element method 
21
brain 
103, 104, 107-110, 112
breakdown 
185
breaststroke 
361, 363, 367,
370-372
butterfly
butterfly Stroke
368, 370-372
193-204
361, 362,
C
caudal fin 
67-77, 247, 249,
250, 255, 259
central pattern generator 
103,
104, 295-297
cerebellar efferent neuron
104, 110, 111
cerebellum 
103, 104, 106
cetacean 
117,118,121
CFD 
345, 346, 351-353, 358,
359
CFRP 
83, 84
chemical-based synapse model
298
chest wall
138
chinese sturgeon 
221-223,
226-228, 231, 232
cilia 
29-39
ciliary augmentation
ciliary reversal
ciliates 
29
clap and fling
129, 130, 132, 135,
30-32
30-32
319, 322, 324
clapping 
319, 322-329
coefficient of drag 
88
coefficient of lift 
88
coercive force 
315
compliant structure 
287
composite materials 
79
computational fluid dynamics (CFD)
183, 233, 234, 245
concave deformation 
76
configuration 
373, 375, 376,
380
control strategy 
229
core spreading method 
336
crawl 
361, 362, 366, 370-372
creeping flow 
3,11
crick mechanism 
130, 135
cruising velocity 
155, 165
cytoarchitecture 
104, 108, 111
D
data recorder 
383-385, 389
DC motor 
324, 326
decelerating 
247, 254
deformable body 
143-146
delayed stall 
180, 187
delta wing 
373, 375-377, 380
descending/ascending motions
247, 248, 252
diffusivity 
17, 23, 26, 27
diodont fishes 
55,57
diptera insects 
310, 317
diving 
247, 252
dolphin 
91-93, 117, 118,
120, 123, 125
dorsolongitudinal muscle (DLM)
135
dorsoventral muscle (DVM)
135
drag 
170, 174, 184, 187-189
drag force 
338-343
drag-based propulsion 
271
dynamic analysis 
247
dynamic pressure 
180, 189

--- Page 396 ---
dynamics model 
30
E
echolocation 
117
eel 
168, 177
elasmobranchs 
35
elastic pneumatic actuator
271
electrodes 
37, 38
electronic nervous system
295, 296, 305
electronic neuron
305
environmental monitoring
244, 252
equation of motion 
33-35,
196
escape behavior 
106
euglena 
41-52
eurydendroid cell 
110-112
evolution strategy 
169
evolutionary algorithm 
167
experiment 
91-93, 100,
193-204
exteroceptive reflex
295-297,
299-301
F
FAC-I 
247-250, 252-256
Faraday’s law 
314, 317
feathering motion 
273, 274,
276
FEM 
70, 73, 74
FFT 
383, 384, 386
fin 
259, 264-270
fin ray 
67-16
finger gap 
376, 377
finite element method 
83,
271, 272
finite volume method 
171
finless porpoise 
117-123,
125
fins 
221-223
397
fish 
103-112
fish acceleration 
157
fish fast-start 
144
fish robot 
233-238, 240-245
fish school 
150, 151
fish shape 
155, 161, 165
fish swimming 
$3, 215
fish-like robot 
221-223, 226,
228-232
fishlike swimming 
143-145
flagella 
4)
flagellum 
3-8, 10, 12, 13
flapping 
319-329
flapping angle 
320, 324
flapping frequency 
320, 323,
324, 326, 328, 329
flapping motion 
272, 273, 276
flapping-flying insect 
179,
184
flapping-of-wings flight 
192,
193, 202-204
flexible micro actuator 
271,
272, 277
flexural rigidity 
70
flexural vibration 
383, 384,
392, 393
flight mechanism 
129-131,
138
flight muscle 
129
floating material 
123
flow 
259-261, 263, 264,
266-270
flow control 
207, 213, 215
flow separation 
377
flow visualization
259, 261, 263, 270
fluid dynamic characteristics
57-59, 95,
373
fluid dynamics 
§, 79, 333,
334, 343
fluid force 
361-363, 365,
366, 368
fluid-body interaction 
151,
152, 167, 177

--- Page 397 ---
398
freestyle 
373
free-swimming fish 
143, 144,
146
friction drag 
91,92, 101
fruit fly 
179, 181, 189, 190
fully-resolved 2-D flow field
155
function 
221-224, 228, 232
G
gadfly 
310-313, 317
Galvano scanner 
4}, 42
galvanotaxis 
29-31, 35, 38,
39
genetic algorithm 
233, 235,
244
genetic algorithm (GA) 
155,
156, 161, 165
group formation 
45-47, 49
hand palm 
373, 377, 380
H
hawkmoth 
179-186, 189,
190, 319, 320, 322, 326, 328,
329
heaving motion 
75
heuristic and analytical approaches
164
high frequency ultrasonic pulse trains
118
high speed video camera system
309
high-speed vision 
37
hot wire 
373, 375
hovering 
179, 182, 184, 185,
186, 189, 210-212, 284
hull resistance 
356, 357
human 
361, 362
hydrodynamic force 
345, 346,
351, 353, 357
hydrodynamic interaction 
17,
19-23, 26
hydrodynamic load 
80, 83
hydrodynamics 
143, 144, 151,
167, 168
hydrophones 
119
hyper elastic material 
276, 280
I
image moments 
37
image sequences 
228
image capturing 
95, 96
impulse hummer 
384
impulse response 
383, 384,
386, 387, 393, 394
indirect flight 
129-131, 138
information processing
framework 
247
information relay system 
247,
252, 255, 257
insect 
129, 130, 138, 319,
322, 324, 326, 327, 329
insect flapping 
309
insect flight 
179, 180, 181,
190
insect wing 
307-310,
312-318
inspection distance 
L17, 123,
125
interaction 
3, 10, 11, 14, 103,
106, 107, 109, 299, 300, 304,
305
intersecting X-like wings 
326
J
joint motion
jump ski
361, 362
383-387, 392, 393
K
Karman vortex street 
148
kinematics model 
227
kinematics simulation 
221,
222, 230-232

--- Page 398 ---
Kutta’s condition 
75
L
Lagrangian simulation 
333
lamprey 
295, 296, 301-304
laser beam driving servomechanism
308
laser scanning system 
4)
lateral jets 
167, 174,177
lateral scutes 
61
leading edge 
67-69, 75
leading edge vortices 
58, 60
leading-edge vortex 
179,
180, 190
least square prediction (LSP)
155, 157, 161, 165
level flight 
324, 325, 328, 329
lift 
179, 180, 184, 187-189,
319, 320, 324, 325
lift and drag generation mechanism
380
lift force area 
341
lift-based propulsion 
271
lightweight 
384, 385, 389,
392
limbs 
361, 363, 365, 366,
368, 370
load cell 
324, 325
lobster 
295, 296
lock-on tracking 
36, 37
locomotion 
103, 104, 108,
iil
low speed maneuvering 
284
low-speed wind tunnel 
193,
194, 198
Ludloff phenomena 
29-31
lumped-vortex method 
193, 194,
196, 197, 199, 200, 202, 204
M
magnetic fluid
318
307, 313-315,
399
magnetic flux density 
314,
315
magnetization 
313,315
Marquardt Method 
161
mathematical programming
155, 156
Mauthner cell 
106
MAV 
205, 209, 210, 212,
215, 319, 320, 323, 326-329
mean velocity 
91, 93, 97-102
measurement 
193, 194, 198
mechanical pectoral fin
271-276
mechanical power 
323, 324,
326
mechanical properties 
67, 68,
70, 73, 75, 76
mechano-bio fusion system
4\
micro air vehicle 
319
micro cyborg 
41
micro manipulation system
Al
micro wind energy converter
307, 308, 311-318
micromachine 
41, 42, 52
micro-organism 
17, 18, 20,
21, 24, 26, 27
microorganism 
29
micro-structure 
129, 138
micro-XCT 
129, 131, 132,
134, 138
model 
129, 130, 135, 138
Mooney-Rivlin model 
280
motion 
3-5, 7-14, 193-200,
202, 204
motor neuron 
103, 104, 106,
107, 109
multi-block grid system 
181, 183
muscle 
129, 130, 132,
134-136, 138
muscle layout 
132
muscle model 
221, 222,
228-231

--- Page 399 ---
400
muscular system 
221-225
N
nanosensors 
214
NAV 
205, 209
Navier-Stokes equations 
167,
168, 335
necrosis 
80
neurobiological model 
295,
296
non-bottom-heavy squirmer
24, 26, 27
nonlinear dynamical behavior of
neurons 
295, 298
non-Newtonian fluid 
17, 21
normal drag 
365, 366, 368
nucleus of the medial longitudinal
fasciculus 
103, 104
numerical simulation 
197,
200, 201, 333, 334
O
oar blade 
345, 346, 348, 349,
355-358
observation 
195, 198, 200, 204
Ogden model 
277
open channel 
91, 93, 94
optical shape measuring system
308, 310, 317
optimisation 
155, 156, 163,
165
optimization 
167-17],
173-177, 235, 236
original three-fin structure
247, 248
ostraciid fishes 
56, 58
overset grid 
179, 181, 183,
184
P
pairwise additivity 
23
panel method 
193, 194, 196,
197, 199, 200, 202-204
parallel processing 
156, 165
paramecium 
17-19, 29, 30,
32, 33, 38, 39
particle image velocimetry
233, 234, 245
particle tracking velocimetry
91
passive 
129, 135, 136, 138
passive flexible fin 
271, 272,
278-281
passive mechanisms 
53-55,
57
pectoral fin 
205, 208,
247-252, 255, 257, 283-285,
287, 291, 293
pectoral fin propulsion 
271
peduncular keels 
55, 63
perceptional function 
117
periodic orbit 
193, 194
permanent magnet 
307,
313-315, 318
permeability of free space
313
phototaxis 
41, 42,4447
PID control 
283, 292, 293
piston-based artificial swimbladder
247
pitching motion 
75
PIV 
259, 261
plastic film 
$1
plate spring 
259-261
Poisson ratio 
73
polar curve 
376, 380
polymer electrolyte fuel cell
233, 234, 240, 241, 245
postural pattern generator
295, 296
posture control 
53
power spectrum 
312
proprioceptive reflex 
299
propulsion efficiency 
68, 234,
236

--- Page 400 ---
propulsion mechanism 
259,
260, 268
propulsive efficiency 
148,
151-153, 361, 362, 370-372
propulsive model 
228
propulsive performance 
67,
68, 77
prosthetic flukes 
80
Purkinje cell 
104, 110-112
PWM control 
274
Q
quasi-hovering flight 
320
R
random walk 
26
random search 
155
real-time observation
re-distribution of vortex blobs
336
29, 35.
reduced frequency 
345-348,
351-353, 355, 358
regression 
162
residence time 
3, 8,9, 14
resonance 
129, 130, 135, 138
retrograde labeling 
104
reverse Karman vortex street
233, 240, 243, 245
Reynolds number 
21, 23, 179,
183, 190
rheotaxic behavior 
299,
300
rigid boundary 
11, 13, 14
rigid-bodied swimming 
53,
55, 57, 59
rotating reaction and population
density 
45
rower's body motion 
345
rowing 
345, 346, 351, 353,
355-359
rowing boat motion 
345
rowing motion 
272, 273, 276
401
rowing simulation 
351
S
saccade maneuver 
210, 211
scanning electron microscope
308-310, 317
self-levitation 
313
self-propelled 
167, 167, 170,
177
semi-dilute 
17, 18, 23, 25, 27
sensory integration network
295, 296
shallow pool 
43, 49
shape 
221-223, 228
shapeless machine 
42, 52
shear modulus 
73
shock absorber 
129, 135, 136
silicon rubber 
79, 81, 91, 92,
94, 101, 272, 273, 276
simulation 
11, 14, 361-363,
366, 368, 370-372
single scull 
345, 347, 348,
355
singly flagellated bacteria 
3-5
skeletal structure 
67, 68, 76,
77
ski-jumper 
333, 334, 340,
342, 343
skin folds 
91, 92, 94
smail-size 
384, 385, 389
sonar 
117, 118, 120, 121,
123-125
spanwise flow 
179-181,
185-187, 190
spawning 
105, 107, 112
speed 
3, 5, 8, 10-14
spinal cord 
103, 104, 106,
107, 109, 112
spontaneous movement 
147,
148
sports science
sprint running
square displacement
333, 334, 343
337, 338, 343
26, 27

--- Page 401 ---
402
squirmer model 
17, 18, 20,
23,27
stability analysis 
202
stabilization 
193, 202-204
stable flight 
194
stall 
320
stereo pulse event recorder
119
Stokes equation 
ll
Stokesian dynamics 
17, 18, 24
strain gage 
96, 97
stresslet 
24
stroke length 
361, 363, 370
strouhal number 
347
structure 
221-223, 228, 229,
232
suction side 
376, 377, 380
surgery 
80
suspension 
17, 18, 21, 23-27
sweepback angle 
375
swim mode 
155, 161, 165
swimming 
3-15, 103-112,
167, 168, 170-177, 361-368,
370, 371, 373, 376
swimming apparatus 
221-223
swimming biomechanics 
53,
59
swimming efficiency 
167,
170, 176, 177
swimming kinematics 
168,
172, 176, 177
swimming number 
89
SWUM 
361, 362, 371
synaptic network 
296, 297,
305
system 
383, 385, 389-393
T
take off, landing 
383, 387,
393
tangential drag 
365, 367, 368
teleost 
103, 106, 107, 110,
112
tetraodont fishes 
53, 55-57,
59, 60
tetraodontiform fishes 
53, 55,
56, 59
theoretical modeling 
143,
152, 153
thrust 
170, 174, 176, 319,
322-326
thrust force 
259, 260, 263,
264, 267, 268, 270
top, center, tail 
387
top-down mode 
221, 222,
232
torque 
29, 31-33, 37
total drag 
91, 92, 94, 96,
101, 102
tracking 
29, 35-37, 39
trailing edge 
75,77
trajectory 
3,5, 7, 8, 10, 11,
13, 14
trajectory control 
53-55, 57,
58, 60, 62
trout-like swimming 
168, 174,
175, 176
trunk muscle 
103-105, 107
tuna 
67-71, 73, 76,77
turbulence intensities 
91,
98-100, 102
turbulence modification 
99
turning 
247, 252, 254
U
underwater vehicle 
259, 260,
263
undulatory motion 
155, 165
units 
384
unsteady CFD 
283, 291, 293
unsteady flow 
333, 334, 341,
343
unsteady hydrodynamic force
353
unsteady potential flow 
152,
153

--- Page 402 ---
u-turn motion 
35-37, 39
UUV 
205, 283-286, 290-293
Vv
variable-effective-length spring
259, 260, 262, 268
variable-stiffness 
259, 260
velocity 
11,12
velocity distribution 
375, 377,
380
velocity prediction program
345, 346, 349
vertical force 
320, 321, 324,
326
vertical vortex 
377
VHF transmitter 
119
vibration frequency 
387, 393
virtual experiment 
221, 232
viscosity 
17, 24, 25, 27
viscous effect 
179
viscous flow 
145, 146, 148,
152, 153
vortex dynamics 
143
vortex method 
333-336, 343
vortex rings 
167, 177
403
vortex shedding 
346, 347
vortex structure 
148, 151
vorticity contour 
377
vorticity transport equation
335
V-shape formation 
341
WwW
wake 
167, 168, 172, 174, 176,
177, 193, 194, 197, 200,
202-204
wake flow 
375, 377
wall shear stress 
91, 92, 101, 102
water tank 
85
waving plate 
143, 152, 153
Weis Fogh 
319, 324
wind tunnel 
320, 324
wing 
129-132, 135, 138
wing morphology 
307, 308
wing tip vortex 
185
Y
Young’s modulus 
67, 70,
72-74, 76

