Plyo-Flex:	Plyometrics	and	Flexibility	Training
for	Explosive
Martial	Arts	Kicks	and	Performance	Sports
by	Marc	De	Bremaeker
Turtle	Press	Washington	DC
PLYO-FLEX:	PLYOMETRICS	AND	FLEXIBILITY	TRAINING	FOR	EXPLOSIVE	MARTIAL	ARTS
KICKS	AND	PERFORMANCE	SPORTS.	Copyright	2013	by	Marc	De	Bremaeker	No	part	of	this	book
may	be	reproduced	or	transmitted	in	any	form	or	by	any	means,	electronic	or	mechanical,	including
photocopying,	recording	or	by	any	information	storage	and	retrieval	system,	without	permission	from	the
authors,	except	for	the	inclusion	of	brief	quotations	in	a	review.	For	information,	address	Turtle	Press,	500
N.	Washington	St	#5145,	Rockville	MD	20849.	www.turtlepress.com
ISBN	978-1-938585-11-1
Warning-Disclaimer
This	book	is	designed	to	provide	information	on	the	techniques	and	skills	of	plyometrics,	stretching,	kicking
and	martial	arts.	It	is	not	the	purpose	of	this	book	to	reprint	all	the	information	that	is	otherwise	available	to
the	author,	publisher,	printer	or	distributors,	but	instead	to	compliment,	amplify	and	supplement	other	texts.
You	are	urged	to	read	all	available	material,	learn	as	much	as	you	wish	about	the	subjects	covered	in	this
book	and	tailor	the	information	to	your	individual	needs.	Anyone	practicing	the	skills,	exercises,	drills	or
techniques	presented	in	this	book	should	be	physically	healthy	enough	to	do	so	and	have	permission	from	a
licensed	physician	before	participating.
Every	effort	has	been	made	to	make	this	book	as	complete	and	accurate	as	possible.	However,	there	may	be
mistakes,	both	typographical	and	in	content.	Therefore,	this	text	should	be	used	only	as	a	general	guide	and
not	as	the	ultimate	source	of	information	on	the	subjects	presented	here	in	this	book	on	any	topic,	skill	or
subject.	The	purpose	of	this	book	is	to	provide	information	and	entertain.	The	authors,	publisher,	printer	and
distributors	shall	neither	have	liability	nor	responsibility	to	any	person	or	entity	with	respect	to	loss	or
damages	caused,	or	alleged	to	have	been	caused,	directly	or	indirectly,	by	the	information	contained	in	this
book.	If	you	do	not	wish	to	be	bound	by	the	above,	you	may	return	this	book	to	the	publisher	for	a	full
refund.
Please	note	that	the	publisher	and	author	of	this	instructional	book	are	NOT
RESPONSIBLE	in	any	manner	whatsoever	for	any	injury	that	may	result	from
practicing	the	techniques	and/or	following	the	instructions	given	within.	Physical
and	Martial	Arts	training	can	be	dangerous,	-both	to	you	and	others-,	if	not
practiced	safely.	If	you	are	in	doubt	as	how	to	proceed	or	whether	your	practice
is	safe,	consult	with	an	accredited	coach,	physical	trainer	or	a	trained	Martial	Art
teacher	before	beginning.	Since	the	physical	activities	described	maybe	too
strenuous	in	nature	for	some	readers,	it	is	essential	that	a	physician	be	consulted
prior	to	any	type	of	training.
Dedication
This	book	is	dedicated	to	my	wife	and	life	companion	of	thirty	five	years.
Without	her	love	and	support,	nothing	would	have	seen	the	light	of	day.	Being	an
athlete	in	her	own	right,	she	knows	about	hard	work	and	long	hours.	
Aviva	Giveoni-De	Bremaeker
Acknowledgements
Thank	you	to	my	co-author	and	technical	adviser	to	this	book,	Roy	Faige.	For
his	unwavering	support	in	spite	of	all	the	difficulties	we	had	on	the	way,	for	his
life-long	friendship	and	for	hours	of	arduous	training,	he	should	be	commended.
Late	Sensei	Sidney	Shlomo	Faige	should	be	mentioned	as	the	central	pivot	of
my	Martial	Arts	career.
Thank	you	to	the	dedicated	Martial	Artists	who	posed	for	the	photographs	and
the	drawings:	Roy	Faige,	Ziv	Faige,	Gil	Faige,	Dotan	De	Bremaeker,	Nimrod	de
Bremaeker,	Shay	Levi,	Tamir	Carmi,	Itay	Leibovich	…
Special	thanks	to	Shahar	Navot,	the	professional	illustrator	and	Martial	artist
who	did	all	the	drawings	for	my	previous	book	(“Essential	Book	of	Martial	Arts
Kicks”).	Shahar	could	not	participate	to	this	work,	but	he	should	be	mentioned:
Everything	I	know	about	illustrating,	I	learned	from	him.	Our	previous
collaboration	has	taught	me	so	much,	but	I	am	still	very	far	from	getting	close	to
his	talent.
Some	of	the	photographs	have	been	extracted	from	previous	photos	sessions
book	by	gifted	professional	photographer	Guli	Cohen.	Other	photographs	have
been	taken	by	my	life	partner	Aviva	Giveoni	and	by	talented	Grace	Wong.
Introduction
Fighting	is	a	well-rounded	physical	activity:	It	requires	strength,	speed,
endurance,	agility,	explosiveness,	flexibility,	core	musculature	and	mental
qualities.	No	wonder	it	was	at	the	core	of	the	ancient	original	Olympic	Games.
Today’s	fighter,	besides	his	particular	technical	training,	usually	runs	short	and
long	distances,	skips	rope,	trains	with	weights	and	weight	machines,	and	does
complementary	cross	training	activities.
This	book	is	focused	on	the	kicking	skills	of	Martial	Arts	of	all	types,	but	it	is
highly	relevant	to	all	athletic	activities	requiring	power,	flexibility	and
explosiveness.	The	drills	presented	are	simple	and	versatile;	they	generally	are
not	Martial	Arts-specific.	The	more	specific	kicking	drills	are	variations	of	basic
drills	designed	to	arouse	more	interest	with	the	fighter;	they	can	be	executed
easily	by	athletes	from	other	fields	if	they	so	wish,	but	they	can	also	be
disregarded	with	no	impact	on	the	overall	system	success.
It	has	been	the	premise	of	my	previous	book	that	kicking	is	a	superior	skill	to
punching	but	requires	much	more	training.	Fans	of	the	MMA	fights	like	the	UFC
have	surely	noticed	that	knock-outs	by	punches	come	usually	at	the	end	of	a
series	of	punches,	but	the	much	rarer	knock-out	by	kicks	comes	after	a	single
well-timed	technique.	Whether	one	agrees	or	not,	one	will	have	to	concur	that
effective	kicking	requires	especially	hard	training.	Besides	the	regular	technical
training	in	one’s	chosen	discipline,	a	few	specific	kicking	training	exercises	have
been	presented	in	the	previous	volume	mentioned.	Those	were	just	simple	drills
specific	to	the	given	technique	and	only	given	as	examples.	It	is	clear	that	the
amount	and	variety	of	possible	exercises	to	improve	kicking	skills	are	huge.
Some	more	will	be	presented	at	the	end	of	this	book.
Example	of	one	of	many	kicking	drills
More	examples	of	kicking	drills

Every	school	and	training	camp	has	its	own	kicking	routines	and	drill	sets	to
both	improve	the	kicking	techniques	of	the	students	and	their	general	physical
stamina	and	preparedness.	Those	classic	training	drills	are	well	known	and	used,
and	most	of	them	will	be	categorized	at	the	end	of	this	book,	just	as	a	reference
and	invitation	to	the	reader	to	further	research	them.	The	well	prepared	kicker
will	train	his	muscles	for	strength,	his	techniques	for	speed	and	accuracy,	his
free-fighting	for	timing	and	positioning,	his	heart	and	lungs	for	stamina,	and
more;	just	like	any	other	athlete.
But,	in	the	opinion	of	the	author,	there	are	two	categories	of	exercise	that	are
under-used	for	many	reasons	and	that	really	can	bring	kicking	mastery	to	a
superior	level:	Plyometrics	and	Flexiometrics.	The	methodical	drilling	of	those
two	categories	of	exercises,	in	tandem,	do	bring	exceptional	progress.	And	this	is
not	only	true	for	martial	arts	and	martial	arts	kicks:	All	sportsmen	can	benefit
from	the	drills	presented,	in	spite	of	the	fact	that	they	are	sometimes	a	bit
specific.	By	doing	these	drills	in	an	organized	fashion,	one	will	run	faster,	jump
higher,	develop	more	power	and	perform	better,	in	any	activity.	But	as	two	sides
of	the	same	coin,	Plyometrics	and	Flexibility	Training,	must	be	drilled
simultaneously	and	methodically.
Plyometrics	could	be	defined	as	the	drilling	for	explosiveness.	Explosiveness
could	be	defined	in	turn,	for	sports,	as	a	combination	of	power	and	speed.	This
definition	makes	immediately	very	clear	how	important	it	is	for	the	“kicking”
part	of	the	art.	The	principle	behind	this	kind	of	exercise	is	that	you	drill	the
muscle	by	contracting	it	eccentrically	and	then	immediately,	concentrically.	The
theory	and	physiology	behind	it	is	not	of	great	importance	for	our	purpose,	but
will	be	hinted	at	in	the	relevant	chapter.	Just	remember	that	you	will	usually
stretch	the	muscle	before	shocking	it	into	contracting.	For	anybody	doubting	the
bump	in	performance	he	can	expect	from	serious	plyometrics	training,	the
generally	agreed	upon	history	of	its	development	would	be	of	interest.	The
Russians	dominated	track	and	field	athletics	in	the	Fifties,	until	the	secret	of	their
success	was	discovered	as	the	training	techniques	of	coach	Yuri	Verkhoshansky.
Only	once	these	techniques	became	generally	used	and	refined	all	over	the
world,	did	the	field	level.	Plyometrics	started	to	be	used	in	all	sports	with	great
success.
Plyometrics	are	used	in	all	sports,	Basketball	for	example
There	are	today	many	variations	and	denominations,	like	“Kinetic	energy
accumulation	training”	or	“Shock	training”,	but	the	basic	ideas	behind	the	drills
are	the	same.	Some	of	the	exercises	presented	will	even	be	outside	the
physiological	theory	presented,	as	what	is	important	for	us	is	not	the	pure	sport
science,	but	the	contribution	of	the	drill	to	more	explosive	kicking	or	athletic
performance.
It	is	the	author’s	opinion	that	plyometrics	are	not	used	enough	in	martial	arts	for
two	basic	reasons.	One:	plyometrics	have	sometimes	the	bad	reputation	of	being
dangerous	and	detrimental	to	the	joints.	To	this	we	reply	that	plyometrics	are	a
tool	and	it	is	the	way	it	is	used	that	will	make	it	beneficial	or	detrimental.
Cautious	and	gradual	drilling	will	ensure	no	harm	is	done	while	huge	progress	is
achieved.
The	other	reason	is	probably	because	it	does	not	look	much	like	martial	arts	and
is	not	sexy	enough	for	class	practice	where	students	expect	high	kicks	and	a	lot
of	fighting	action.	Jumping	off	boxes	does	not	come	close	to	the	enjoyment	of
free	fighting…	This	is	why	we	have	tried	in	this	book	to	present	as	many	as
possible	drills	including	kicking,	whether	pure	plyometric	or	hybrid.
Flexiometrics	is	an	invented	word	in	the	spirit	of	Plyometrics.	It	should	mean
something	like	Intensive	Stretching.	The	exercises	are	not	new	or	based	on	any
novel	theory.	The	word	comes	in	here	to	try	to	underline	the	fact	that	a	lot	of
investment	in	stretching	is	required	for	explosive	kicking,	much	more	than	what
is	usually	done.	Much	too	often,	stretching	is	part	of	the	warm-up	and	cool-down
of	training	sessions,	and	that’s	it.	Although	it	is	extremely	important	to	stretch
before	and	after	training,	this	should	not	be	considered	flexibility	training.	The
serious	Martial	Arts	kicker	should	have	dedicated	stretching	training	sessions	at
least	three	times	a	week,	session	not	shorter	than	one	hour.	This	is	the	second
“secret”	of	explosive	kicking,	and	it	should	be	noted	that	it	is	not	limited	to
success	in	high	kicking:	it	will	give	the	same	performance	boost	to	medium	and
low	kicking.	“Flexiometrics”	is	therefore,	for	us,	the	systematic	and	separate
work	on	stretching	and	flexibility	that	will	benefit	the	kicker.	A	minimal	amount
of	theory	about	flexibility	will	be	presented	in	the	relevant	chapter,	but	it	is	the
yoga-type	work	that	is	favored	by	the	author.	In	fact,	the	martial	artist	that	has
the	time	and	opportunity	should	cross-train	with	yoga	for	optimal	results.	If	not,
let	him	concentrate	on	the	exercises	presented	here.
Flexibility	training	is	key	for	the	success	of	the	Kicking	Artist
Flexibility	training	should	start	as	early	as	possible,	but	can	be	greatly	improved	at	any	age
Again,	the	author	feels	that	flexibility	training	is	looked	down	upon	because	it
takes	away	precious	time	from	sexier	martial	art	training,	and	also	because	most
artists	do	not	understand	its	importance.	Flexible	artists	tend	to	believe	they	do
not	need	it,	and	stiff	ones	are	happy	with	their	techniques	and	do	believe	that	the
time	needed	for	some	small	eventual	improvement	is	not	justified.	They	are	both
wrong.	It	is	true	that	flexibility	improvements	require	time	and	methodical
training	but	they	will	bring,	much	faster	than	thought,	huge	progress	to	kicking
speed	and	range.
Many	feel	that	flexibility	is	a	genetic	given	and	that	not	much	can	be	done	if	one
is	born	stiff.	It	is	true	that	genetics	are	important,	and	that	one	should	start
exercising	his	flexibility	as	early	as	possible.	But	one’s	flexibility	can	greatly	be
improved	by	regular	and	intensive	training.	It	has	been	shown	by	academic
research,	and	time	and	again	proven	in	practice	with	our	students;	there	is	no
doubt	about	it.
It	should	be	noted	that	this	book	does	not	pretend	to	be	exhaustive.	It	will
present	a	range	of	exercises	that	the	author	feels	should	be	practiced	by	the
martial	art	kicking	artist.	But	there	are	many	more	possible	drills,	probably	all
beneficial.	There	would	be	no	point	in	an	encyclopedic	presentation	of	the
subject,	and	the	reader	is	invited	to	do	his	own	research	and	devise	his	own
variations.
Of	course,	plyometrics	and	flexiometrics	are	not	enough	to	make	you	a	master
kicker.	But	all	other	training	exercises	being	equal,	the	author	feels	that	they	are
the	two	secret	ingredients	that	will	bring	your	kicking	abilities	to	the	next	level.
The	reader	is	invited	to	do	alternating	sessions	of	plyometrics	and	flexiometrics
based	on	the	drills	presented,	and	see	for	himself	after	only	a	few	weeks.	The
preferred	schedule	would	be:
Monday:	Flex
Tuesday:	Plyo
Wednesday:	Flex
Thursday:	Plyo
Friday:	Flex
Saturday	and	Sunday:	None	of	the	above.
One	full	day	rest	a	week	without	any	type	of	training	at	all	is	highly
recommended.	It	must	be	underlined,	and	will	be	explained	later,	that	training
routines	should	be	fixed,	for	at	least	a	month:	Changing	exercises	on	account	of
not	getting	bored	is	not	conducive	to	optimal	progress.	Routines	should	be
changed	after	three	months	regular	continuous	use.
A	goal	is	not	always	meant	to	be	reached,	it	often	serves	simply	as	something	to	aim	at.
Bruce	Lee
Part	1:	Plyometrics
Chapter	1:	General
Principles
The	Merriam-Webster	dictionary	defines	plyometrics	as:	“exercise	involving
repeated	rapid	stretching	and	contracting	of	muscles	(as	by	jumping	and
rebounding)	to	increase	muscle	power”.	The	stretching	before	contracting
ensures	a	more	intense	contraction,	and	therefore	more	explosive	power.	The	use
of	“explosive”	tries	to	convey	a	dimension	of	time	to	the	qualities	gained	by
such	training:	The	muscles	trained	will	so	be	stronger	while	contracting	faster	at
peak	power.
Muscle	strength	is	the	maximum	force	one	can	squeeze	out	of	his	muscles,	like
the	heaviest	weight	one	can	lift.	Muscle	power	is:	achieving	this	full	strength
fast.
A	muscle	needs	to	contract	in	order	to	cause	movement.	It	has	been
demonstrated	that	this	concentric	contraction	will	be	all	the	more	energetic	if	the
muscle	has	been	stretched	immediately	before	in	what	is	called	eccentric
contraction,	storing	in	fact	some	elastic	energy.	In	layman’s	terms,	you	get	more
bang	for	the	buck	if	you	lengthen	your	muscle	just	before	you	contract	it	into	the
required	move,	and	this	because	it	adds	the	energy	from	your	muscle	elasticity	to
the	whole	equation.	This	is	often	referred	to	as	the	stretch	shortening	cycle.	A
muscle	stretched	just	before	it	contracts	will	do	so	with	more	energy.	As	the
muscles	become	used	to	the	extra	power,	they	become	more	efficient	at	storing
elastic	energy.	The	total	amount	of	power	exerted	during	the	exercise	is	more
than	with	regular	exercise,	therefore	causing	more	muscle	potential	power	with
time.	The	muscles	become	able	to	go	from	the	eccentric	contraction	to	the
concentric	contraction	faster,	thus	creating	“peak	power”	–	fast	maximum
energy.	This	is	what	is	referred	to	as	“shortening	the	stretch	cycle”.
This	is	one	of	the	reasons	why	most	exercises	should	be	executed	in	a	“multi-
response”	way,	meaning	in	series	and	with	no	pause	in	between	the	jumps.
Multi-response	keeps	fast	alternating	of	stretch	and	contract,	and	challenges	the
muscle	accordingly.	All	exercises	should	be	started	single-response	to	let	the
body	familiarize	itself	with	the	specific	move.	Then,	when	adequate,	one	should
gradually	strive	to	go	multi-response:	back	and	forth	fast	and	with	no	rest.
There	is	much	more	to	the	full	physiological	theory	than	what	has	been
presented:	there	is	a	part	played	by	the	myotatic	reflex,	which	is	the	automatic
contraction	of	a	stretched	muscle;	and	a	neurological	part	played	by	same
“stretch”	reflex	which	lowers	the	body’s	tendency	to	automatically	limit
maximum	power	exerted.	Plyometrics	drills	will	therefore	improve	gradually	the
neuro-muscular	interactions	while	allowing	for	the	highest	possible	energy
application	in	training.	The	several	existing	theories	on	how	and	why	it	works
are	probably	all	valid	and	complement	each	other.
For	the	reader	who	is	interested	in	the	theories	behind	plyometrics	and	wants	to
delve	into	the	very	interesting	physiological	details,	I	would	recommend	the
works	of	the	“father”	of	modern	plyometrics:	Prof.	Yuri	Verkhoshansky.	His
works	are	readily	available	in	English	and	extremely	detailed.
Caution
Plyometrics	are	not	for	the	untrained.	Some	coaches	have	given	them	a	bad
reputation	and	are	firmly	against	their	practice	on	the	grounds	of	safety.	They
argue	that	the	benefits	are	largely	outweighed	by	the	damage	they	can	cause,
because	they	apply	to	the	muscles,	joints	and	connective	tissues	more	energy
than	what	they	are	built	for.	The	author	will	argue	that	it	is	exactly	what	sport	is
about:	furthering	gradually	the	border	of	human	potential,	with	the	emphasis	on
gradually.	All	physical	activities	lead	to	some	fiber	destruction	that	will	allow
the	body	to	rebuild	stronger	fibers	to	adapt	to	what	is	regularly	asked	from	the
same	body.	Ask—slowly—more	and	more	of	your	body	and	it	will	adapt.
Accordingly,	only	plyometrics	will	be	able	to	let	you	access	the	next	stage	of
muscular	explosive	power.
Plyometrics	have,	in	fact,	a	proven	long-term	effect	of	injury	prevention;	but	it
should	be	underscored	that	these	exercises	have	to	be	taken	up	very	gradually
and	after	a	minimum	level	of	muscle	tone	has	been	achieved.	Because	all	their
purpose	is	to	maximize	the	amount	of	energy	applied	to	the	muscles,	tendons
and	joints,	it	is	easy	to	understand	that	they	require	slow	and	methodical
implementation.
The	assiduous	martial	artist	will	have	no	problems	doing	them,	but	still	should
increase	the	length	of	a	dedicated	plyometrics	session	gradually	from	5	minutes
on.	He	should	also	ensure	that	he	is	properly	warmed	up,	and	stop	at	the	first
sign	of	joint	pain.
The	beginner	will	have	to	develop	regular	muscle	strength	first	by	regular
training	and	muscle-building	exercises.	Only	after	a	few	months,should	he	start
carefully	doing	these	drills,	after	warm-up,	and	under	professional	supervision.
A	plyometric	session	should	start	with	a	ten	minutes	warm-up	and	light
stretching.	Then	five	minutes	of	plyometric	exercises.	No	more.	Then	five
minutes	cool-down	stretching.	The	“plyometrics”	part	of	the	session	can	then	be
increased	by	a	weekly	five	more	minutes,	with	caution	and	stopping	at	the	first
hint	of	joint	pain.	The	cool	down	should	become	a	full	ten	minutes.	Altogether,	a
training	session	should	never	go	over	one	hour,	which	means	about	forty	net
minutes	of	high	energy	plyos.
Training	sessions	should	be	two	a	week	at	the	start,	then	three	a	week,	but	never
more.	Plyometrics	should	not	be	done	day	after	day,	and	there	always	should	be
one	day	in	between	sessions.
It	is	recommended	to	practice	on	soft	flooring,	like	grass	or	indoor	sports	halls.
Never	practice	on	hard	floors	like	concrete.	The	wearing	of	running	trainers,
reducing	impact	shock,	can	be	of	big	help.
Above	all,	the	practicing	artist	is	advised	to	use	common	sense	and	to	listen	to
his	body.
Martial	Arts	and	Plyometrics
From	the	introduction	and	all	the	above,	it	should	now	be	clear	to	the	reader	why
plyometrics	are	so	important	to	the	martial	artist,	and	especially	the	kicker:
Delivery	of	the	maximum	energy	faster!
Not	only	will	plyometrics	increase	the	power	of	each	kick,	it	will	also	allow	for
faster	movement	of	body	positioning,	all	the	while	contributing	to	the	overall
fitness	and	endurance.	Some	of	the	drills	have	also	a	direct	contribution	to	some
kicks	and	moves.	Flying	kicks	are	obvious,	but	also	hopping	kicks,	hip	thrusts	in
penetrating	kicks	and	much	more.
The	martial	artist	should	include	dedicated	plyometrics	training	sessions	in	his
routine;	noticeable	results	will	come	quickly.	He	should	do	so	in	parallel	with
serious	flexibility	training.
Here	is	the	place	to	stress	an	important	point:	Do	train	per	fixed	routines	for	at
least	one	month	but	no	more	than	three.	The	body	needs	time	to	rebuild	itself	as
per	the	stimuli	you	are	going	to	impose	on	it,	and	each	drill	works	in	its	own
specific	way.	In	this	day	and	age	of	instant	gratification	and	minimal	attention
span,	people	tend	to	want	too	much	variation	to	avoid	“boredom”.	Varying
exercises	from	session	to	session	is	not	conducive	to	optimum	progress.	For	at
least	a	month,	but	preferably	three,	you	should	drill	the	same	exercises	and	force
your	body	to	make	progress	on	them,	working	faster	or	jumping	higher
gradually.	On	the	other	hand,	after	three	months,	when	you	have	made	good
progress,	your	body	has	become	accustomed	to	the	drills	and	the	progress	will
become	incrementally	smaller	and	slower.	Then,	and	only	then,	is	the	time	to
trick	your	body	in	having	to	make	new	efforts	and	adapt	itself	to	new	drills.	This
is	an	important	rule;	the	author	has	seen	too	many	promising	fighters
squandering	their	training	time	in	sexy	and	ever-changing	training	sessions.
Slow,	steady	and	methodical	takes	the	race!
Regarding	the	training	sessions,	the	author	is	not	a	proponent	of	giving	out	lists
of	exercises	as	a	training	session.	This	work	is	aiming	at	experienced	artists	and
athletes	who	will	know	how	to	organize	their	sessions	and	which	exercises	to
choose	from	all	presented	in	the	book.	A	plyometric	training	session	should	be
dedicated	to	plyometrics	only	and	should	not	be	over	an	hour.	The	drilling	must
be	as	intense	as	possible,	with	as	little	rest	as	possible	between	the	drills,	but	of
course,	that	is	highly	dependent	on	the	stamina	and	level	of	fitness	of	the	trainee.
With	progress,	the	artist	will	be	able	to	cram	more	exercises	gradually.	Do	not
over-train	though;	more	than	one	hour	sessions	would	be	counter-productive.
The	Golden	Rules	of	Plyometrics	Training
These	rules	are	extremely	important,	both	for	your	safety	and	for	optimal
progress.	Write	them	down	and	keep	them	always	in	mind,	or	written	on	the
wall.
1.	ALWAYS	warm-up	and	stretch	before	practice	(Dynamic	stretching	for
overall	muscle	heating	and	lengthening).
2.	Start	slowly	and	increase	intensity	gradually,	both	within	the	session	and	from
session	to	session.
3.	ALWAYS	stretch	after	a	session	(Static	stretching	for	flexibility	maintenance).
4.	Train	with	intent	and	minimize	ground	contact	time.	Concentrate	on
explosiveness,	both	physically	and	mentally.
5.	Do	not	over-train.	It	would	be	detrimental	to	your	progress.	Time	must	be
given	to	the	muscles	to	rebuild	themselves	in	the	improved	configuration.	And
remember	that	other	aspects	of	training	need	attention.	Two	sessions	a	week	is
optimal,	and,	in	any	case,	NEVER	more	than	three.
6.	Build	strength	in	parallel	with	regular	weight	training	drills.	Remember	that
strength	is	a	part	of	the	explosiveness	equation.
7.	Drill	fixed	routines.	Do	the	same	exercises	weekly	and	do	not	try	to	change
and	innovate	all	the	time.	Change	routines	after	three	months.
Chapter	2:	Ground	Drills
Ground	drills	are	the	exercises	that	can	be	done	without	any	special	equipment.
The	drills	are	simple	jumps,	from	and	back	to	the	ground.	Even	the	drills	looking
like	kicking	maneuvers	should	be	practiced	by	non-martial	arts	athletes.	They
are	important,	not	only	because	they	are	effective,	but	also	because	they	can	be
executed	any	time,	any	place.	Do	not	practice	on	hard	concrete	floors	though.
Flying	Butt	Kick
From	a	standing	position,	slightly	bend	the	knees	and	straighten	down	the	arms.
Jump	up	as	high	as	possible	while	trying	to	kick	your	own	butt	with	your	heels.
Try	to	keep	your	arms	down	and	straight.	Land	while	bending	the	knees.	Once
you	are	familiar	with	the	move,	do	it	in	series,	so	that	you	jump	up	immediately
from	the	bent-knees	landing	position.
Key	points:
Keep	your	arms	down	in	order	to	avoid	their	“helping”	your	jump
Explode	up	with	intent	and	really	try	to	kick	yourself
In	series,	minimize	ground	time
	
	
Jump	high	without	taking	up	momentum	downwards	and	kick	yourself	in	the	butt
	
Flying	Butt	kick
This	will	remind	the	trainee	of	another	kicking	drill	for	the	high	chambering	of
the	front	kick	in	which	one	heel-kicks	his	own	backside	before	delivering	the
penetrating	front	kick.	See	the	series	below.
Kick	your	backside	on	your	way	to	the	regular	Front	Kick	chamber:	a	great	technical	drill
	

Flying	Double	Knee	Kick
From	a	standing	position,	bend	the	knees	and	place	your	arms	parallel	to	the
floor	as	a	target	for	the	knee	kicks.	Explode	up	as	high	as	possible	and	try	to
knee	the	palms.	Try	not	to	move	the	arms	as	a	“help”	to	your	jump,	consider
them	as	immovable	targets.	Once	you	are	familiar	with	the	move,	start	to	work
in	series	with	no	pauses	in	between.
Key	points:
Do	not	move	the	arms
Try	to	knee	as	high	as	possible
Minimize	ground	time
Try	to	envision	the	drill	as	a	real	double	flying	knee	strike
	
	
	
Flying	Knee	Strike
In	a	variation	of	this	drill	in	series,	you	can	also	progress	gradually	forward	from
jump	to	jump.
This	is	also	a	great	drill	for	flying	knee	kicks.
Flying	Double	Wide	Knee	Kick
This	is	a	variation	of	the	previous	drill.	In	this	variation,	you	simply	jump	with	a
wide	double	knee	kick	outside	of	your	arms.	You	bend	the	torso	between	the
arms	and	knees.	Once	you	have	mastered	the	move,	do	it	in	series	with	a	pause
in	between	the	jumps.	Once	ready,	start	working	plyometrically	with	minimum
ground	time	between	the	jumps.
Key	Points:
Minimize	ground	time
Make	sure	you	do	not	flex	the	legs	more	than	in	photo	3;	resist	the	temptation	to
start	the	jump	from	a	crouching	position
	
In	this	drill,	concentrate	on	lifting	the
knees	as	high	as	possible	outside	the	arms
	
A	great	drill	for	improved	flying	kicks
Wide	double	Knee	Flying	kick

Flying	Front	Kick
This	drill	is	a	hybrid	of	the	first	two	drills,	with	a	karate	twist.	You	jump	off	your
two	feet	for	a	flying	front	kick,	making	sure	that	the	heel	of	the	non-kicking	leg
hits	your	butt.	As	you	land,	you	repeat	the	kick	with	the	same	leg.
Key	points:
Kick	off	from	both	feet
When	working	in	series,	make	sure	you	kick	from	the	same	leg	each	time,	for
the	plyometric	effect.	Afterwards,	do	a	full	series	with	the	other	leg.
Kick	high	and	concentrate	on	the	kick.
Of	course,	minimize	ground	time
Flying	Front	Kicks	in	place,	in	series.	Heel	to	butt
Flying	Twist
This	is	a	variation	of	the	Flying	Double	Knee	Kick,	important	for	regular	and
spinning	flying	Kicks.	The	principles	are	the	same	but	you	add	a	twist	during	the
jump	and	land	180	degrees	from	starting	position.	This	is	a	great	drill,	but	make
sure	you	minimize	ground	time.
This	is	an	important	drill	for	better	spinning	kicks.
Key	points:
Make	sure	you	jump	off	both	feet	simultaneously.
Concentrate	on	lifting	the	knees	high	and	minimizing	ground	time.
Flying	Double	Knee	Kick	with	an	airborne	twist

A	great	drill	for	spinning	kicks
One-leg	Fighting	Stance	Jump
Take	a	fighting	stance	on	one	knee,	with	the	front	leg	bent	at	90	degrees.	Jump
up	as	high	as	possible,	pushing	from	both	feet.	Land	in	fighting	stance,	without
knee/floor	contact	to	avoid	knee	injury.	Once	you	are	familiar	with	the	drill,
repeat	as	fast	as	possible	on	one	side.	The	series	are	always	one-sided	only.
Afterwards,	change	sides	and	repeat.
These	are	all	very	similar	to	other	well-known	“ground”	kicking	drills	from
kneeling	or	one-kneed	positions.	Highly	recommended.
Key	points:
Avoid	at	any	cost	landing	on	the	knee,	directly	in	start	position.	Serious	injury
may	result.
Try	to	keep	fighting	stance	all	the	way.
Concentrate	on	the	explosion	up	from	the	one-kneed	position.
Push	off	one	foot	for	longest	possible	side	jump
Jump	up	from	one-kneed	position

This	starting	position	makes	for	a	great	regular	kicking	drill	as	shown	below.
Front	Kick	from	the	one-knee	position:	a	great	drill

The	“karate”	version	of	the	drill	will	be	to	add	a	side	kick	at	the	end	of	the	side
jump;	each	time.	This	is	a	very	beneficial	but	challenging	variation	which	I
recommend	warmly.	Proceed	gradually	though.
Lateral	Long	Jump
This	is	a	very	important	exercise	for	speed	of	positioning.
Squat	until	you	touch	the	ground	with	the	tips	of	your	fingers	and	explode	into
the	longest	possible	lateral	jump.	Push	off	the	outside	leg	while	extending	the
inside	leg.	Stay	low	as	you	are	trying	to	jump	the	longest	possible	distance,	and
not	the	highest	jump.	It	is	recommended	to	mark	distance	to	strive	for	on	the
floor	with	2	lines;	with	your	progress,	you	will	be	able	to	gradually	increase	the
distance	between	them.
This	drill	needs	to	be	practiced	for	length	of	jump	first,	before	going	to	the	multi
response	version	(work	in	series).
Key	points:
Touch	floor	and	explode
Concentrate	on	distance,	not	height
Work	in	series	back	and	forth,	touching	floor	each	time,	but	with	no	pause.
Touch	floor	before	developing	the	side	kick.	Concentrate	on	good	technique
	

Lateral	long	jump	capped	with	a	side	kick.	Alternate	sides	with	no	pause
	

One	can	see	the	similarity	of	execution	with	the	extremely	efficient	“Hand-on-
floor	Side	Kick”	and	is	invited	to	refer	to	“The	Essential	Book	of	Martial	Arts
Kicks”.
When	executing	the	drill,	think	about	this	kick
Joined	Legs	Lateral	Jump
In	this	drill,	the	focus	must	be	on	speed	and	not	on	height	or	distance.	This	is	a
typical	multi-response	drill,	much	used	in	many	sport	disciplines.	It	is
recommended	to	use	a	marking	on	the	floor	or	use	a	prop	as	a	line	to	be	jumped
over	back	and	forth.
From	one	side	of	the	line,	you	jump	laterally	with	your	legs	together.	As	you
land	on	the	other	side,	you	jump	off	immediately	back.	And	so	forth.
There	are	two	ways	to	practice	this	drill,	and	you	should	do	both	alternatively.	In
the	first	version,	you	jump	back	and	forth	in	place.	In	the	second	version,
necessitating	a	longer	line	on	the	floor,	you	jump	both	sideways	and	a	bit
forward,	so	progressing	gradually	forwards.
Key	points:
This	is	a	multi-response	drill:	Concentrate	on	speed	and	explosiveness;	minimize
ground	time
	
Do	not	try	to	jump	high
Do	both	versions:	in	place	and	going	forwards

One-leg	Butt	Kick
This	is	a	more	challenging	version	of	the	Flying	Double	Butt	Kick:	The	whole
drill	is	executed	on	one	leg!	Although	it	is	harder	on	the	muscles,	it	still	has	to	be
done	as	fast	as	possible	in	true	plyometric	fashion.	Do	not	start	this	drill	before
you	have	fully	mastered	and	have	had	a	long	practice	of	the	Flying	Double	Butt
Kick.
Stand	on	one	leg	with	the	lifted	knee	in	front.	Jump	off	the	other	leg	and	use	it	to
kick	your	own	butt.	Once	you	have	mastered	the	exercise,	do	it	in	series	with
minimum	ground	time.	This	is	a	punishing	version,	very	difficult,	but	extremely
beneficial	to	your	explosiveness.
Key	points:
Drill	single-response	thoroughly	before	working	in	series
Jump	as	high	as	possible
Minimize	ground	time
When	working	in	series	(multi-response),	use	the	same	leg.	Then	do	a	series
with	the	other	leg.
Stand	on	one	leg	and	kick	your	own	butt	repeatedly	as	fast	as	possible
	

The	challenging	one-leg	butt	kick

Hop	Into	Jumps
According	to	the	plyometrics	theory,	this	is	a	purer	way	to	execute	the	jumps
described	before,	and	therefore	a	more	productive	exercise	in	terms	of	results.
You	simply	do	a	small	hop	just	before	the	higher	jump	and	enjoy	the	fruits	of	the
eccentric/concentric	contraction	couple.	This	method	is	highly	recommended
once	you	have	mastered	the	jumps	as	described	before.	This	execution	requires
more	coordination,	as	you	will	have	to	remember	to	always	hop	before	the	jump,
even	when	you	work	in	series.	So	it	will	be:	hop/jump/hop/jump/…
We	shall	illustrate	the	technique	for	the	Flying	Butt	Kick	but	it	is	valid	for	all
other	jumps,	like	the	Flying	Double	Knee	Kick,	Flying	Wide	Double	Knee	Kick
or	Flying	Front	Kick.
The	execution	is	pretty	simple:	hop	and	immediately	execute	the	Flying	butt
Kick.	As	you	land,	immediately	hop	forward	for	another	jump.
Key	points:
This	is	pure	plyometrics.	Work	fast	with	no	pause	at	all.
Explode	when	the	hop	lands.
You	can	mark	the	floor	for	a	fixed	(and	becoming	longer)	hop
Jump	explosively	back	and	forth	over	the	line.	This	is	the	version	with	gradual	forward	progression
	
Small	hop,	big	jump.	Minimize	ground	time
Hop	then	double	flying	knee	kick

An	interesting	variation	is	the	hop	into	a	flying	kick.	Presented	here	is	hopping
into	a	Flying	Front	Kick.	The	principles	are	the	same	and	you	should	strive	to
work	in	series,	multi-response.
Small	hop,	then	jump	up	in	flying	front	kick.	Repeat

One-leg	lateral	Jump
This	is	obviously	the	more	challenging	one-legged	variation	of	the	classic	lateral
jumps.	Standing	on	one	leg	you	jump	laterally	in	series,	as	fast	as	possible,	but
while	jumping	each	time	as	high	as	possible.	If	not,	it	would	just	be	the	lateral
hopping	exercise	presented	just	after	this.	The	jump	is	on	the	side	of	the	standing
leg.	You	can	mark	the	floor	as	a	focusing	help.	This	is	a	very	difficult	exercise.
Progress	gradually.
Key	points:
This	is	a	difficult	exercise;	drill	thoroughly	single	response	before	going	to
series
When	working	in	series,	do	concentrate	on	one	leg.	Then	drill	the	other	leg
in	another	series.
The	purpose	of	the	exercise	is	height:	concentrate	on	jumping	high,	then
fast.
On	one	leg,	jump	high	and	sideways.	Repeat
A	great	drill	to	improve	side	kick	positioning

Flying	Front	Scissor	Kicks	in	Series
This	is	an	extremely	beneficial	drill	that	should	be	practiced	by	the	Martial	Artist
at	every	session.	Not	only	has	it	many	explosiveness-building	properties,	but	it	is
also	a	kicking	drill	in	itself.	The	kick	practiced	here	is	a	versatile	and	very
effective	kick	that	should	be	kept	in	store	by	every	kicking	artist	for	the	right
opportunity	(like	in	Lyoto	Machida’s	UFC	129	fight	against	Randy	Couture).
The	drill	is	in	fact	simply	the	execution	of	the	double	flying	front	scissor	kick	in
series	with	no	rest	in	between.	This	very	important	kick,	called	Nidan	Geri	in
Japanese	Karate,	is	fast	and	difficult	to	block.	It	is	a	regular	grounded	rear-leg
penetrating	front	kick,	immediately	followed	by	a	flying	front	kick	from	the
other	leg;	the	switch	between	the	kicking	legs	is	done	in	a	flying	scissor	way	as
the	flying	kick	chamber	starts	as	the	regular	kick	recoil	is	still	underway.	There
are	many	variations	to	the	kick	itself	based	on	whether,	among	others,	the	first
kick	is	a	feint	or	a	full	kick,	or	whether	the	jump	is	high	or	long.	But	the
principle	stays	the	same,	and	so	does	the	drill.
From	a	relatively	high	posture,	execute	a	full-power	rear-leg	penetrating	front
kick.	As	you	chamber	the	kick	back,	jump	off	your	standing	foot	for	a	flying
front	kick.	The	leg	lifts	in	flying	front	kick	chamber	as	the	other	leg	is	still
recoiling	from	the	regular	grounded	front	kick.	This	causes	an	airborne	scissor-
move.	After	delivering	the	flying	front	kick,	you	chamber	it	back	as	you	land	on
the	first	kicking	foot.	As	soon	as	you	land	with	the	second	kicking	leg	in	front,
you	repeat	the	exercise;	same	side.	Once	you	have	mastered	the	drill,	concentrate
on	minimizing	ground	time	during	the	series.	Try	to	do	at	least	series	of	10
kicks;	then	switch	legs	and	execute	the	drill	on	the	other	side.
Key	points:
Master	the	technique	first,	in	single	response.	Concentrate	then	on	the
kicking.
Practice	in	place	first;	then,	use	a	long	free	field	to	execute	while	kicking
forward.
Always	remember	that	the	plyometric	purpose	is	to	execute	in	series
without	pause.
Standing	Kick,	Scissor,	Flying	Kick.	In	series,	fast

Lateral	Hopping
This	is	the	easier	one-legged	lateral	drill,	but	still	very	important	for	explosive
muscle	building.	You	just	hop	back	and	forth	over	a	marked	line	on	the	floor.
You	can	do	this	in	place	or	going	gradually	forward.	The	key	to	this	drill	will	not
be	height,	but	speed.	There	must	be	no	pause	whatsoever	between	the	hops.
A	kicking	variation	of	this	drill	is	presented	at	right.	It	is	interesting	to	alternate
between	those	two	drill	types	for	similar	but	synergistic	results;	the	kicking
aspect	gives	it	some	more	student	interest.	This	will	be	a	simple	hopping	side
kick	series:	Hop	sideways	while	kicking,	and	repeat.	The	purpose	of	the	drill
being	the	lateral	hop,	it	is	recommended	to	deliver	low	side	kicks,	in	order	to
enable	the	trainee	to	concentrate	on	speed	and	hopping,	and	not	the	kicking.	But
once	proficient,	there	is	no	reason	why	the	trainee	could	not	execute	with	higher
kicks.
Stand	on	one	leg,	in	typical	side	kick	chamber.	Hop	sideways	while	delivering
the	(low)	side	kick.	Ideally,	the	jumping	foot	should	touch	the	floor
simultaneously	with	the	full	kick	extension.	Chamber	back	and	repeat
immediately.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	minimizing	ground	time.	Work	as	fast	as	possible.
Concentrate	on	one	leg	until	exhausted;	then	switch	to	series	with	the	other
leg.
Hop	back	and	forth	over	line,	as	fast	as	possible

Lateral	Hopping	Low	Side	Kick	in	series

Key	points:
Concentrate	on	speed	of	hopping,	not	the	kick
Repeat	for	a	minimum	of	20	hops	before	switching	legs
This	is	a	relatively	low	impact	exercise:	Repeat	switching	sides	until	legs
hurt.	No	pain,	no	gain!
The	kick	is	delivered	during	the	airborne	phase
The	simple	lateral	hopping—multi-response	in	the	same	direction—is	by	itself	a
great	muscle-building	drill.	You	need	room	for	its	execution,	and	a	beach	would
provide	you	for	it	with	the	added	benefit	of	the	extra	effort	needed	in	the	sand.
Just	make	sure	that	you	practice	the	drill	with	both	versions	per	direction	of	the
jumps:	jumping	in	the	direction	of	the	lifted	leg	and	jumping	in	the	direction	of
the	standing	leg!
The	simple	basic	one-legged	side	hop:	jump	in	the	direction	of	the	standing	leg
	
The	simple	basic	one-legged	side	hop:	jump	in	the	direction	of	the	lifted	leg
	
Push-up	to	high	jumps
This	is	an	old	classic,	and	like	all	classics,	a	great	drill	proven	by	time.	One
could	argue	that	the	push-up	does	not	do	much	for	the	kicker,	but	it	does
improve	stamina	and	it	forces	the	trainee	to	take	the	right	starting	position	for	the
drill.	All	in	all,	this	is	a	very	well	rounded	drill,	and	a	must-practice.
From	a	standing	position,	semi-squat	and	place	your	hands	on	the	floor.
Immediately	throw	your	legs	back	to	a	“plank	pose”.	Do	a	fast	straight-back
push	up,	before	throwing	back	your	feet	between	your	hands.	From	this	position,
jump	up	as	high	as	possible	while	stretching	your	hands	up.	Land	in	semi-squat
and	repeat.	Of	course,	there	is	no	pause	in	between	the	phases,	and	the	execution
is	one	smooth	move	from	beginning	to	end.
When	proficient,	the	artist	is	encouraged	to	transform	the	throwing	back	of	his
feet	into	a	Double	Drop	Back	Kick.	The	drill	could	be	executed	in	front	of	a
heavy	bag	to	be	kicked	as	hard	as	possible.	Remember	though	that	the	heart	of
the	drill	is	the	jump	up.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	no-pause	between	the	end	of	the	push-up	and	the	high
jump!	It	is	basically	a	plyometric	“hop	and	jump”.
Land	on	slightly	bent	knees
Classical	push-up	to	high	jump.	A	must	for	the	serious	artist

The	very	powerful	Double	Drop	Back	Kick

Long	Jumps
This	is	a	very	efficient	and	simple	drill	but	it	requires	space	to	execute.	You
simply	jump	as	far	as	possible	with	joined	legs,	in	series.	This	is	a	long	jump,
not	a	high	jump.	It	is	important	to	concentrate	on	distance	and	minimize	the
pause	of	ground	time.	A	series	of	long	jumps	requires	obviously	a	free	field	long
enough,	as	ten	jumps	would	be	the	minimal	series	length.	Do	not	execute	on
concrete	floors!
Key	points:
As	mentioned:	Length,	not	height
Work	in	series	without	rest.	The	muscle-building	effect	comes	from
jumping	off	the	“reception	crouch”	of	the	previous	jump.
“Glue”	legs	together
Long	Jumps	in	series,	multi-response

Longest	possible	jump,	legs	together
Typical	phases	of	the	Long	Jump	Drill
Executing	the	Long	Jump	drill	in	sand	makes	it	more	challenging

Even	more	challenging	is	to	do	the	multi-response	long	jump	in	the	sand	and	one-legged
	
Frog	Long	Jumps
Here	comes	a	great	“frog	walk”	exercise	that	has	long	been	a	favorite	of
children’s	martial	arts	classes.	This	is	a	fantastic	plyometric	drill	if	executed	in
series	and	to	its	maximum.
As	illustrated	below,	you	start	from	the	“frog”	position:	kneeling	with	your
hands	on	the	floor	and	elbows	between	the	knees.	You	then	jump	as	far	as
possible	and	land	in	the	same	frog	position.	This	is	a	long	jump,	not	high!
Repeat	immediately,	with	minimal	ground	time,	until	the	muscles	are	exhausted.
Key	Points:
Minimize	ground	time
Jump	long	and	close	to	the	floor;	do	not	try	to	jump	high
Land	on	the	hands	first,	before	the	feet	land
Playful	but	effective	Frog	Hops
Split	jumps
Here	comes	a	classic,	the	importance	of	which	cannot	be	emphasized	enough.
This	is	a	great	explosive	muscles-builder	to	be	practiced	regularly.	It	must	be
noted	that	the	drill	must	be	executed	after	a	good	warm-up,	as	there	are	some
dangers	of	injury.	In	the	same	logic,	it	is	a	drill	that	must	be	approached
gradually	by	the	beginner	or	even	the	experienced	artist	that	has	abandoned	it	for
some	time.
You	start	in	deep	split	position:	the	front	leg	is	bent	at	90	degrees	and	the	back
leg	spread	back	and	standing	on	the	toes.	The	knee	does	not	touch	the	floor	and
you	face	forward.	Arms	are	locked	in	guard	or	hikite	position.	Jump	up,	directly
from	the	start	position,	as	high	as	possible	and	switch	the	legs	airborne.	Land
directly	in	the	same	starting	position,	but	with	opposite	leg	forward.	Repeat.
Key	points:
Warm	up	before	the	drill,	including	stretching.
Master	the	exercise	gradually	and	carefully:	Start	single	response	and	from
a	higher	starting	position
Once	fully	mastered,	execute	the	exercise	while	concentrating	on	minimal
pause	between	the	jumps.
The	classic	split	jumps

Deep	low	front	stance,	jump	up	and	switch	sides

This	drill	can	be	extended	into	an	important	“Switch	and	kick”	drill	that	will	be
presented	in	Chapter	4.	The	photos	below	illustrate	the	exercise.
Make	sure	you	start	and	finish	in	guard.	In	this	version,	reach	up	as	you	try	to	jump	as	high	as	possible
	
The	full	Split	Jump-and-front-kick-over-chair	Drill.

Abdominal	Legs	Throws
Now	comes	a	classic	dojo	drill	with	partner.	Unbeknownst	to	the	trainees,	it	is	a
full	plyometric	drill,	fantastic	for	the	abdominals,	the	hip	belt	and	the	upper	legs.
Lying	on	your	back,	you	catch	your	standing	partner’s	ankles,	as	shown	below.
Using	your	abdominals,	you	lift	your	straight	legs	to	90	degrees.	Your	partner
will	forcefully	throw	your	legs	back	towards	the	floor	and	you	will	brake	the	fall
a	few	inches	from	the	floor	to	lift	the	legs	back	up.	Your	partner	will
immediately	throw	the	legs	back	down.	Once	you	are	familiar	with	the	drill,
your	partner	should	use	the	maximum	amount	of	force	that	will	allow	you	to	do
the	exercise	and	you	shall	strive	to	minimize	the	amount	of	time	at	braking	point
near	the	floor.
Key	points:
Legs	straight	and	together	at	all	times
Back	stays	on	the	floor
Stop	as	close	to	the	floor	as	possible	and	lift	the	legs	back	as	soon	as
possible
Your	partner	throws	your	legs	down,	you	lift	them	back	a.s.a.p.
There	is	a	very	well-known	variation	of	the	drill	in	which	your	partner	throws
your	legs	down	diagonally	to	your	side	for	extra	laterals	work.	You	can	do	this
variation	by	alternating	sides	or	concentrating	on	one	side	before	switching.
Pushed	Lunges
Here	comes	a	truly	plyometric	partner	drill.	It	is	again	a	lunge,	but,	this	time,	the
extra	energy	for	plyometrics	does	not	come	from	your	jumping	up	but	from	a
partner	pushing	you.	As	illustrated	in	the	first	sequence	below,	your	partner
pushes	you	forward	and	you	land	as	far	as	possible	in	a	lunge	as	low	as	possible.
Your	partner’s	push	must	be	powerful	but	not	jerky,	and	you	must	let	yourself	be
pushed.	The	drill	could	stop	at	this	stage	with	your	going	back	fast	and	smoothly
to	start	position	for	a	repeat.	But	to	make	it	more	of	a	kicking	drill	and	make	full
use	of	the	plyometric	aspect,	you	should	come	back	to	standing	by	executing	a
front-leg	front	kick	directly	from	the	low	lunge	position.	Then,	go	back	to
starting	position	and	repeat	with	the	same	leg	until	exhausted.	Then,	switch	legs.
The	kick	immediately	following	the	low	lunge	reception	from	the	push	will
maximize	the	plyometrics	effect	of	the	drill.	This	is	a	very	efficient	drill.
Key	points:
Your	partner	must	push	you	powerfully	but	smoothly	and	not	unexpectedly
Let	yourself	relax	when	pushed
Land	as	far	and	as	low	as	possible;	make	use	of	the	energy	of	the	push
Minimize	ground	time	in	lunge	position,	whether	you	kick	or	not
Powerful	push	into	a	low	lunge

The	“little	brother”	of	this	drill	is	the	lateral	lunge	push	presented	below.	The
methodology	and	principles	stay	the	same;	in	the	extended	version,	you	will
deliver	a	front-leg	side	kick	from	the	deep	side	lunge	position.
The	lateral	pushed	lunge	drill

Kung	Fu	Jumps
Last,	but	certainly	not	least,	comes	a	drill	introduced	here	to	remind	the	readers
that	nothing	is	really	new.	Many	very	old	traditional	arts	included	many
exercises	with	plyometric	principles,	the	importance	of	which	had	been	proven
by	real	world	experience.	In	old	Kung	Fu	styles	there	were	drills	like	box
jumping,	or	hopping	out	of	a	hole	that	are	reminiscent	of	some	of	our	modern
plyos.	In	fact,	many	of	the	“positions”	drills	or	of	the	traditional	forms	of	the
hard	styles	of	Kung	Fu	are	definitely	muscle	building	exercises	with	plyometrics
undertones.	Kicking	in	series	and	very	low	positions	switching	are	great	drills.
We	present	here	a	basic	drill	starting	from	a	very	low	position	typical	of	Chinese
Arts	(Pu	Bu).	As	illustrated	below	you	jump	off	the	bent	leg	and	switch	legs
airborne	in	a	double	knee	strike.	You	land	in	the	low	crouched	position,	to	repeat
on	the	other	side.	Once	you	are	familiar	with	the	drill,	practice	it	multi	response!
This	is	a	very	complete	and	strenuous	exercise.
Old	traditional	exercises	are	not	necessarily	outmoded

Chapter	3:	Box	Drills
Those	drills	require	a	“box”	or	high	step,	basically	something	you	can	step	or
jump	on	or	from.	These	are	the	first	“new	and	spectacular”	plyometrics	drills
discovered	by	Western	trainers	in	the	Sixties,	and	they	are	truly	the	bread-and-
butter	of	plyometrics	training.	The	generic	word	“box”	is	there	to	underline	that
many	everyday	or	specific	objects	can	be	used.	The	height	of	the	box	is
dependent	on	the	type	of	exercise	or	the	proficiency	of	the	trainee.	It	is
sometimes	beneficial	to	gradually	increase	the	height	of	the	box.	An	aerobic	step
or	a	stack	of	those	is	a	good	solution	to	the	“box”	problem:	they	are	stable	and
stackable	to	the	desired	height.	But	anything	goes:	It	is	the	drill	that	counts…
On-Box	Jump	In	Series
This	is	the	easiest	and	most	recognizable	of	the	box	drills.	It	can	even	be	done	as
part	of	your	jogging	routine	nearly	anywhere:	on	a	public	bench,	a	high	curb,	a
low	wall…
The	classic	and	unavoidable	way	to	practice	the	drill	is	the	small	legs-together
hop	onto	the	box	where	you	concentrate	not	on	height	but	on	speed	of	execution:
back	and	forth,	fast	and	with	minimal	ground	time.	Do	not	try	to	jump	too	high
or	make	huge	arms	movements	to	succeed	jumping	up:	jump	up	and	down	fast
with	arms	locked	and	rebound	on	the	floor	with	no	pause.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	speed	and	minimum	ground	time.	Do	not	try	to	set	the	height	too
high.
When	mastered,	increase	height	very	slowly	and	gradually	to	keep	exercise
challenging.
Lock	your	arms	(in	guard)	to	avoid	“helping”	the	jump.
Legs	together.	Make	sure	you	do	not	even	slightly	emphasize	one	leg	over	the
other.
Hop	on,	hop	off,	as	fast	as	possible
The	other	way	to	do	the	drill	is	to	increase	gradually	the	height	of	the	box.	You
still	concentrate	on	speed	and	no-pause,	but	the	effort	to	jump	up	becomes
significant.	This	exercise	cannot	be	executed	as	fast	as	the	classic	version.	This
is	the	reason	that	the	high	version	should	be	practiced	as	an	additional	drill,	but
not	instead	of	the	classic	version,	the	benefits	of	which	are	very	important	to	the
kicking	artist	(in	spite	of	the	fact	that	it	looks	easier	and	simpler).	As	an	order	of
magnitude,	the	starting	height	of	the	“box”	for	this	exercise	should	be	your	knee.
Key	points:
Height	being	the	point,	you	can	help	yourself	with	hand	moves
	
Make	sure	you
stand	up	on	the	box	with	straightened	legs	before	you	jump	back	down
	
Bend	the
knees	when	you	land
Work	with	rhythm	and	gradually	reduce	the	pauses	in	between	jumps
	
Progress
gradually:	this	is	a	challenging	exercise	for	the	joints
	
Jump	up	for	height	then
immediately	back	down

For	all	variations,	make	sure	you	hop	on	and	off	as	quickly	as	possible
	
There	is	a	kicking	variation	of	the	basic	drill	that	emphasizes	the	plyometric
angle.	From	the	regular	standing	position	in	front	of	the	box,	deliver	a	front	kick
while	using	the	box	as	a	prop	to	force	a	proper	high-knee	chamber.	Deliver	the
kick	as	an	explosive	power	kick	from	the	starting	position	and	chamber	back.	As
the	foot	lands	back	on	the	floor,	you	immediately	jump	up	from	both	feet	onto
the	box,	as	per	the	classic	drill.	Hop	back	down	and	immediately	deliver	a	front
kick,	same	leg	as	before.	Chamber	back,	land	foot	and	jump	up	onto	the	box.
And	repeat…
Key	points:
Drill	one	leg	at	a	time;	do	not	alternate	kicks	in	one	series
	
Progress	gradually
and	reduce	ground	time	as	you	become	proficient
	
The	kick	needs	to	be	powerful
but	start	from	a	relaxed	standing	position
	
Jump	up	from	both	legs	as	soon	as	the
kicking	foot	reaches	the	floor
	
Front	Kick	over	box,	then	jump	up	and	back	down

Deliver	a	full-powered	front	kick	before	hopping	in	order	to	benefit	from	the	drill
	
Once	you	are	very	proficient	in	the	basic	drills,	you	can	start	to	do	the	basic
variations	as	an	additional	drill,	spicing	the	routine	a	bit.	The	two	basic
variations	are:	twisting	airborne	and	one-legged.	The	principles	stay	the	same
and	we	are	not	going	to	write	too	much	about	it.	Just	refer	to	the	illustrations
below.	Remember	that	the	drills	can	be	executed	fast,	or	high	and	with	kicking
involved;	all	previous	key	points	stay	valid	and	should	be	referred	to.
On-box	twist	jump
On-box	one-legged	jump;	you	can	add	a	kick	too
On-box	 one-legged	 twist	 jump;	 illustrated	 with	 an	 additional	 kick
	
Here	is	probably	the	right	place	to	say	a	word	about	ankle	weights	and	weight
vests.	Adding	weight	when	doing	plyometrics	will	obviously	increase
performance.	But	it	should	be	clear	from	all	the	cautionary	words	in	the
introduction	that	this	is	only	for	very	well-conditioned	young	athletes,	and	after
a	very	gradual	learning	curve.	The	author	does	not	recommend	the	use	of	ankle
weights	or	weight	vests	for	jumping	and	bounding	plyometrics,	but	for
exceptional	athletes.	Those	training	aids	are	a	great	help	though	in	regular	(non-
plyometric)	exercises.
Box-on	and	Up
This	is	the	classic	and	extremely	beneficial	drill	in	which	you	use	the	box	as	a
springboard	for	a	high	jump.	This	is	not	a	multi-response	drill	in	which	you
repeat	the	exercise	as	fast	as	possible.	Instead	of	minimizing	ground	time,	you
minimize	“box-time”.	Starting	from	a	semi-squat	position,	you	jump	onto	the
box	with	both	feet,	receiving	yourself	on	bent	knees.	As	soon	as	the	feet	touch
the	box,	you	strive	to	jump	up,	off	the	box,	as	high	as	possible.	When	you	land,
turn	around	and	repeat,	but	there	is	no	need	to	run	back:	Just	reposition	yourself
in	semi-squat	and	repeat.	Do	not	practice	on	hard	or	concrete	floors.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	jumping	as	high	as	possible
No	pause	on	the	box	between	the	two	jumps
Only	once	mastered	should	you	increase	box	height,	and	not	to	a	point	where	the
first	jump	is	a	challenge	in	itself.
Jump	on	the	box	and	then	as	high	as	possible	from	the	box

Box-off	and	Up
Before	we	start	with	off-box	drills,	a	word	of	caution:	These	exercises	are	harder
on	the	joints	and	require	a	gradual	approach.	Proceed	carefully,	and	never
practice	on	hard	floors.
From	the	edge	of	the	box,	hop	off	with	legs	together.	Bend	the	knees	when
landing	and	jump	up	immediately	from	the	semi-squat	as	high	as	possible.
Again,	this	is	not	a	multi-response	drill.	Hop	down	and	immediately	up.	Then
climb	back	on	the	box	to	repeat.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	minimum	ground	time	after	the	hop-off
Jump	as	high	as	possible;	try	to	improve	gradually
Legs	together	at	all	times
Start	the	drill	carefully	and	gradually	from	a	low	box.	Increase	height	of	box
with	proficiency.
Jump	off	the	box	into	a	crouch	and	then	as	high	as	possible

The	drill	not	being	multi-response,	you	can	cap	the	drill	with	a	kick,
immediately	as	you	land	from	the	jump.	A	back	kick,	for	example,	is	shown
below.
Land	and	immediately	execute	a	back	kick	over	the	box
Box-off	and	Long
This	exercise	is	very	similar	to	the	previous	one;	you	just	jump	long	instead	of
high.	You	simply	hop	off	the	box	and	land	with	bent	knees.	From	this	crouching
position	you	immediately	jump	into	the	longest	possible	jump.	Then,	you	climb
back	on	the	box	and	repeat.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	minimizing	the	pause	between	the	hop-off	and	the	long	jump;	try
to	use	the	momentum.
The	second	jump	is	as	long	as	possible;	mark	distance	if	you	can
	
Hop-off	drills
are	hard	on	the	joints;	proceed	gradually	and	carefully.
Jump	down	from	the	box	and	then	immediately	as	far	as	possible
	

Just	like	for	the	previous	exercise,	you	can	cap	the	drill	with	a	kick	executed
immediately	after	landing	from	the	long	jump.	It	is	beneficial	to	do	so	with	kicks
starting	close	to	the	ground,	for	example	the	Drop	Twin	Roundhouse	Kick,	as
presented	at	right.
Upon	landing,	cap	the	drill	with	kicks	from	crouched	position	like	the	Drop	Twin	Roundhouse
	

Box	Cross-over	Jump
This	is	a	very	important	multi-response	exercise	to	be	practiced	often	and	always
as	fast	as	possible.	With	one	foot	sideways	on	the	box,	you	simply	jump	up	and
laterally	over	the	box.	You	land	with	the	other	foot	sideways	on	the	box,	and
jump	up	immediately	back.	Minimizing	ground	time	is	the	key	to	plyometric
development	here.
Key	points:
This	is	a	fully	lateral	move
Concentrate	on	minimizing	the	pause	in	between	jumps
You	can	slowly	increase	height	of	the	box,	but	only	when	the	drill	is	perfectly
mastered	at	given	height	and	never	at	the	cost	of	speed
	
Hop	back	and	forth	and
minimize	ground	time
Once	you	have	mastered	the	drill,	try	to	increase	height	of	the	jump,	while
keeping	the	rhythm.
When	proficient,	jump	higher	while	keeping	switching	fast	between	jumps
	
Great	drill	for	a	fast	side-step
into	kick
There	are	kicking	variations	of	this	drill	that	are	worth	mentioning.	The	first,
presented	below,	simply	adds	a	front	kick	during	the	climb	up	the	box.	It	is	a
great	exercise	but	care	must	be	taken	to	keep	a	smooth	rhythm	with	no	pauses.
The	drill	must	be	approached	gradually	in	order	to	ensure	both	good	kicking
technique	and	minimum	ground	time.
Deliver	a	front	kick	while	climbing	up	laterally,	hop	down	while	switching	legs
	

The	second	kicking	variation	of	the	drill	consists	in	adding	a	side	kick	while
climbing	up.	The	principle	is	the	same	as	for	the	front	kick	version,	but	it	is	a
more	difficult	technique	to	execute.	Once	mastered,	do	practice	with	smooth
rhythm	while	striving	to	reduce	ground	time.
Climb	up	laterally	while	chambering	the	side	kick;	kick	and	chamber	back;	hop	down	while	switching	legs
	

Box	Switch	Jumps
This	is	a	very	easy	exercise,	more	like	a	box-aided	jog,	but	important	to	do.	It	is,
for	example,	a	great	drill	to	do	as	a	warm-up.	The	drill	will	only	be	beneficial	if
it	is	done	multi-response,	as	fast	as	possible.	With	one	leg	touching	the	upper
edge	of	your	box,	you	hop	and	switch	legs	as	fast	as	possible	and	repeat.
Continue	until	muscle	exhaustion.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	speed.	Try	to	literally	stay	airborne.
Keep	hopping	until	you	feel	muscle	strain
Switch	legs	as	fast	as	you	can
An	easy	version	of	the	drill	simply	uses	the	first	step	of	a	staircase;	it	is	as
beneficial	if	execute	as	fast	as	possible	and	can	be	done	during	your	jogging
routine.
Box	Lateral	Step-up
This	drill	is	not	a	jump	but	a	lateral	stepping-up	exercise,	great	for	the	knee,	the
abductors	and	the	adductors	which	play	such	an	important	role	in	kicking.	The
drill	looks	easy,	but	it	is	extremely	challenging	for	the	knee	joint;	it	needs	to	be
approached	carefully	and	very	gradually.	Start	with	a	low	step	and	slowly;	stop
at	the	earliest	joint	pain.	Once	you	become	proficient	though,	it	is	an	important
drill	that	must	be	executed	in	a	multi-response	fashion.	I	would	not	recommend
its	execution	with	additional	weight,	but	for	the	most	experienced	athletes.
As	illustrated	below,	you	stand	with	a	box	on	your	left	and	place	your	crossing
right	foot	on	it.	Lift	yourself	up	straight	and	let	your	left	foot	touch	the	top	of	the
box	before	going	back	down	in	place.	Repeat	until	exhausted	and	switch	legs.
Key	points:
Once	proficient	minimize	both	box-time	and	ground-time;	keep	hopping	up
and	down	smoothly
Keep	upper	body	straight,	hands	in	guard
Drill	with	caution
Climb	up	and	down	laterally,	crossed	leg
Chapter	4:	Hurdles
“Hurdles”	is	a	quite	generic	term	for	basically	anything	that	is	not	a	box.	We
shall	try	to	give	another	example	each	time,	but	the	meaning	is	an	exercise	prop
that	is	too	narrow	or	too	low	to	be	a	box.	The	box	would	not	be	good	for	the
specific	exercise,	although	the	plyometrics	principle	stays	the	same;	therefore	a
real	hurdle,	or	a	belt,	or	a	tire,	or	traffic	cones,	or	a	punching	bag	will	be	used.
These	drills	are	based	on	exercises	already	described	but	are	always	multi-
response,	and	the	specific	hurdle	is	needed	to	allow	for	fast	repetitions	of	the
jumps.
Successive	Height	Jumps
This	is	a	close	relative	of	the	flying	double	knee	kick,	with	a	dash	of	on-box
jump.	This	is	simply	a	succession	of	forward	high	jumps	over	a	series	of	hurdles.
The	illustrations	show	the	use	of	real	hurdles	as	a	prop,	but	anything	similar
goes:	table	legs,	ropes,	belts,	exercise	benches…
It	is	often	done	in	martial	arts	classes	with	partners	holding	their	gi	belts	between
themselves	at	the	appropriate	height.	When	the	practitioner	clears	at	least	three
of	these	belts	in	succession	and	back,	he	replaces	one	of	the	belt	holders	to	allow
him	to	do	the	drill,	and	so	it	goes…	This	is	a	good	way	to	build	dojo
camaraderie.
The	drill	must	be	first	mastered	at	a	reasonable	height	and	single	response.	Then,
to	be	beneficial,	it	must	be	practiced	in	series	with	no	pause	for	at	least	two,	but
preferably	three	hurdles.	And	back!	The	height	and	number	of	jumps	must	be
then	increased	very	gradually.	Starting	height	should	be	at	mid-thigh.
Key	points:
Master	the	drill	carefully	first
Concentrate	on	minimizing	ground	time	first.	Not	height.
A	series	should	be	at	least	4	bounds	(2	hurdles	and	back)
Legs	together	at	all	times
Jump	 over	 successive	 hurdles	 in	 sequence,	 legs	 together,	 no	 pause
	
Incremental	Height	Jumps
This	important	drill	could	be	considered	a	variation	of	the	lateral	hopping
exercise,	made	incrementally	more	difficult.	The	prop	needed	is	a	rope	or	an
elastic	band,	or	belts	tied	together,	long	enough	to	allow	for	at	least	three	jumps.
The	rope	is	fixed	from	the	floor	diagonally	up	to	a	pole	(or	held	by	a	partner)	at
mid-sternum	level.	A	longer	rope	and	a	more	gradual	the	slope	will	allow	for
more	jumps.	Starting	at	the	ground	extremity	of	the	rope,	you	hop	laterally	and
slightly	forward	over	the	rope,	legs	together.	As	you	progress	forward,	the	height
increases,	and	so	the	difficulty	of	the	exercise.	Once	the	drill	mastered,
concentrate	on	minimal	ground	time	as	you	proceed	forward.
Key	points:
Once	the	drill	is	mastered,	concentrate	on	minimum	pausing	between	the
jumps
Rope	set	up	should	allow	for	a	minimum	of	three	jumps.	The	more	and	the
more	gradual,	the	better.
Legs	together	at	all	times
Hop	laterally	and	forward	over	a	rope	of	increasing	height
Lateral	Height	Jumps	in	Series
This	is	again	a	variation	of	the	lateral	hops	and	jumps.	The	purpose	of	the	props
here	is	to	ensure	a	series	of	jumps	with	no	pause	and	in	the	same	direction.	This
is	a	different	drill	than	the	hop-back-and-forth	exercises:	Here	you	keep	jumping
in	the	same	direction,	using	the	same	leg	and	core	muscles.
The	props	used	in	the	illustrations	are	traffic	cones,	but	they	can	be	anything	that
is	high	enough	for	the	purpose.	Remember	that	lateral	jumps	are	generally	lower
in	height	than	front	ones.	Traffic	cones	are	about	the	best	height,	but	the
following	can	also	be	used:	stacks	of	2	to	3	old	tires,	ropes	and	belts,	low
hurdles,	narrow	boxes,	lying	heavy	bags,	exercise	benches	and	my	favorite:
partners	sitting	on	the	floor…	Use	your	imagination.
Just	make	sure	you	start	with	about	knee-height,	and	with	enough	props	for	a
series	of	at	least	4	jumps.
Legs	together,	jump	laterally	over	a	cone,	then	immediately	another,	and
another…	All	in	the	same	direction	and	with	no	pause.	Repeat,	and	then	practice
on	the	other	side.
This	is	a	great	drill	for	the	improvement	of	the	Flying	Side	Kick	for	example.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	minimizing	ground	time	(Make	sure	props	are	placed
adequately)
Make	sure	you	are	set	up	for	at	least	four	jumps
Repeat	drill	several	time	in	the	same	direction	before	switching	sides
Legs	together
Height	and	distance	between	hurdles	can	be	increased	gradually,	but	never
on	account	of	the	no-pause	aspect
Hop	laterally	over	at	least	4	successive	hurdles	with	no	pause.	Repeat
	
The	Flying	Side	Kick
Speed	Side	Hops	Over	a	Bag
This	is	a	simple	variation	of	the	lateral	hopping	drill.	The	only	difference	is	that
the	hop	will	have	to	be	slightly	higher	and	slightly	wider	because	of	the	hurdle.
But	this	drill	is	also	totally	about	speed,	not	height	or	distance.	It	is	also	a	drill	in
place,	with	no	going	forward.	This	is	a	great	drill	if	you	concentrate	on	the
multi-response	aspect,	and	the	size	of	the	bag	(or	any	other	prop)	allows	for
variations	in	execution.	A	stack	of	old	tires	can	also	be	used,	starting	with	one,
and	then	gradually	stacking	a	second	and	a	third	as	progress	is	achieved.	Or	a
stack	of	aerobic	steps;	use	your	imagination	and	the	equipment	around	you.	You
can	also	“use”	a	partner,	prone	or	on	hands	and	knees.
Remember:	This	is	all	about	speed,	hopping	back	and	forth	fast	and	with	no
pause.
Key	points:
Speed,	as	mentioned
Concentrate	on	minimizing	ground	time.
No	higher	or	wider	hurdle	before	the	drill	is	mastered
Hop	back	and	forth	over	the	bag	with	no	pause	whatsoever

Chair-on	Kicks
A	chair	is	basically	a	high	box	with	a	back.	It	is	also	a	ubiquitous	prop,	found
virtually	everywhere.	The	seat	of	the	chair	will	give	a	plyometric	“box”	start	to
the	drill;	the	“back”	part	can	be	used	for	forcing	a	high	and	challenging	chamber
of	a	kick.	We	shall	present	a	few	examples	of	drills	synergistically	mixing
plyometrics	and	kicking	exercises,	but	the	practitioner	is	invited	to	devise	his
own	as	per	his	training	dictates.	It	should	be	noted,	again,	that	these	drills	must
be	approached	slowly	and	gradually:	The	high	stepping	can	stress	untrained
joints;	these	exercises	are	for	well-trained	artists	in	good	shape	and	regularly
doing	basic	plyometric	training.
Caution:	Please	make	sure	the	chairs	used	are	sturdy,	stable	and	appropriate	for
the	exercise.
The	step-up	front	kick	is	a	classic	and	very	beneficial	exercise.	As	illustrated
below,	it	is	best	executed	with	two	chairs:	one	for	the	step-up,	and	one	to	ensure
a	high	knee	chamber.	From	a	standing	position,	place	one	foot	on	the	chair	and
immediately	step	up	while	lifting	the	other	leg	into	front	kick	chamber.	Kick,
chamber	back	and	step	down	with	both	legs.	Repeat	immediately,	with	the	same
leg.	Once	the	muscles	are	exhausted,	switch	sides	and	repeat	while	kicking	with
the	other	leg.
Key	points:
You	do	not	have	to	“run”	in	between	kicks	but	once	the	drill	starts,	it	must
be	executed	in	a	smooth	and	uninterrupted	way.
Always	go	back	to	starting	position	with	both	feet	on	the	ground
You	can	start	and	familiarize	yourself	with	the	drill	by	stepping	up	lower
(aerobic	step	for	example)	and	with	no	second	chair	(the	back	of	which
forces	you	to	lift	the	knee	high	and	early	in	the	kick!).
Step	up	and	front	kick	in	one	smooth	move

The	step-up	roundhouse	is	a	more	challenging	drill,	but	it	will	need	only	one
chair	as	the	back	of	the	step-on	chair	will	serve	the	chambering	aid	purpose.	The
principle	of	the	drill	is	the	same	as	for	the	previous	front	kick:	work	smoothly
and	uninterruptedly	from	standing	position	back	to	standing	position,	as
illustrated	below.	It	is	recommended,	when	stepping	on,	to	place	the	foot	turned
outwards,	in	order	to	facilitate	the	pivot	of	the	roundhouse	kick	(as	clearly
illustrated	in	step	2).
The	principles	and	key	points	of	the	drill	are	the	same	as	for	the	Step-up	Front
Kick	drill.
Other	kicks	can	be	delivered	as	per	this	set	up:	side	kicks,	back	kicks,	crescent
kicks	and	more.	This	is	left	to	the	reader’s	discretion.	But	one	should	remember
that	the	purpose	is	not	to	make	the	drills	more	complex	and	sophisticated,	but	to
implement	the	plyometric	principles	into	kicking	drills;	the	kicks	in	themselves
are,	from	this	point	of	view,	less	important.
Step	up	with	foot	turned	out	and	deliver	roundhouse	kick	smoothly	over	the	back	of	the	chair
	

Split	Jump-and-kick	Over	Chair	Hurdle
This	is	an	extension	of	the	previously	described	“Split	Jumps”	drill,	an
extremely	important	exercise	in	itself.	It	is	now	combined	smoothly	and	with	no
pause	with	a	kick.	The	simple	version	of	the	drill	only	requires	to	kick	after	the
split	jump,	and	doing	so	with	no	pause	and	with	a	chair	to	enforce	high
chambering	and	good	technique.	In	the	more	challenging	version	of	the	drill,	the
kick	will	be	delivered	after	a	step-up	move	onto	the	chair.
A	picture	being	worth	a	thousand	words,	please	refer	to	illustrations	1	to	6	for
the	Front	Kick	variation	of	the	basic	drill.	After	the	split	jump,	as	soon	as
landing	and	with	no	pause,	you	execute	a	front	kick	over	the	chair	in	front	of
you.	You	then	chamber	back	and	land	the	foot	backwards,	assuming	the	starting
split	position	from	which	the	kick	initiated.	You	then	execute	a	new	split	jump
and	repeat	the	kick	on	the	other	side.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	executing	smoothly	and	with	no	pause.	No	need	to	run,	but	it
must	be	done	seamlessly.
Adapt	the	height	of	the	chair	to	your	proficiency.
The	drill	calls	for	kicking	alternately	with	both	legs.
Advanced	artists	can	execute	with	ankle	weights.
Split	jumps	with	immediate	front	kick	over	a	chair

The	drill	can	be	executed	virtually	with	any	kick	and	the	artist	is	encouraged	to
develop	his	own	exercises	as	per	his	style	and	physiology.	Two	more	simple
examples	are	presented:	Let	your	imagination	do	the	rest.	Illustrations	below
show	a	basic	side	kick	drill	and	a	spin-back	hook	kick	into	the	same	drill.	The
key	points	and	principles	stay	the	same	as	for	the	front	kick	variation	presented
at	the	beginning.
Split	jumps	into	full	side	kick	over	front	chair

Split	jumps	into	spin-back	hook	kick	over	chair

In	the	more	challenging	full	version	of	the	drill,	you	will	split	jump	then	step-up
onto	the	chair	before	kicking.	It	is	basically	two	previously	described	exercises
bundled	together	in	series.	This	is	challenging	but	extremely	efficient.	The	Front
Kick	version	of	the	drill,	presented	on	this	page,	necessitates	two	chairs:	one	for
the	step-up	and	the	other	as	a	hurdle	for	a	high	chamber.	Immediately	after	the
split	jump,	smoothly	and	from	very	low,	you	step	up	with	one	foot	onto	the	chair
and	deliver	smoothly	a	front	kick	over	the	second	chair.	Chamber	back	and	land
the	kicking	foot	back	onto	the	ground.	You	then	step	down	with	the	other	foot
directly	into	low	split	(guard)	position.	From	there	you	will	execute	a	new	split
jump/step-up/front	kick,	this	time	on	the	other	side!	Keep	kicking	and	switching
sides	smoothly	and	uninterruptedly.
Split	jump	low,	step	on	the	chair,	front	kick	and	back	down	into	low	split	position	to	repeat
	

This	shows	a	simple	Side	Kick	version	using	only	one	chair.	(One	can	easily
imagine	a	side	kick	forward	version	with	a	90	degrees	pivot	on	the	chair,	but	that
would	necessitate	two	chairs	like	the	front	kick.	Use	your	imagination	for	more
variations).	Refer	to	the	illustrations;	the	principles	are	the	same.
Key	points:
Minimize	ground	time	after	the	split	jump;	step	up	immediately	and	in	one
smooth	move.
Step	down	just	as	you	have	stepped	up	and	lower	“standing”	leg	directly
deeply	backwards	into	low	split	position.
No	need	for	extra	speed	but	concentrate	on	smooth	uninterrupted	execution
and	repetition.	Alternate	sides.
Side	Kick:	The	execution	is	like	the	front	kick	variation	until	the	kick	itself.	Chair	is	positioned	accordingly
	

This	sequence	shows	a	step-up	roundhouse	version	of	the	drill,	using	one	chair
only.	The	back	of	the	chair	serves	as	hurdle	for	the	leg	chamber	that	is
simultaneous	to	the	step-up.	The	principles	and	key	points	are	identical	to	those
for	the	front	kick	and	side	kick.	Work	smoothly	and	uninterruptedly,	from	a	low
split	position.
Split	jump,	step-up	roundhouse,	down	and	repeat	on	other	side
	

It	is	now	clear	that	you	can	so	execute	all	kinds	of	kicks	and	enjoy	the	benefits
of	plyometric	exercise.
Chapter	5:	Stairs
There	are	stairs	everywhere,	so	it	is	an	easy	prop	to	have	and	use	in	your
practice.	It	is	a	great	training	aid,	not	only	for	plyometrics:	Everybody
remembers	the	movie	“Rocky”…
The	stairs	allow	for	a	combination	of	both	height	and	distance	when	jumping.	A
word	of	caution	though:	Not	all	types	of	stairs	lend	themselves	to	all	drills	and
some	set-ups	can	be	dangerous.	Always	exercise	on	the	lower	part	of	the	stairs
and	proceed	carefully	and	gradually:	A	fall	from	stairs	is	potentially	very
dangerous.
Upward	Stairs	Jumps
This	is	the	combination	of	a	high	and	a	long	jump,	with	legs	together.	You
simply	jump	from	the	base	of	the	stairs	up	to	the	highest	step	you	can	reach.	Step
down	and	repeat.	It	would	be	more	“plyometrically”	beneficial	to	keep	jumping
up,	but	we	cannot	recommend	this	for	safety	reasons.	This	exercise	is	also	best
executed	on	wide	step	stairs.	One	of	the	advantages	of	stairs	jumping	is	that	is
easier	on	the	joints,	as	you	land	high	at	the	end	of	the	jump.
Key	points:
Legs	together	at	all	times
Proceed	gradually	and	carefully.	Get	acquainted	with	the	exercise	and	the
specific	stairs	before	aiming	higher.
Try	to	minimize	the	pause	needed	between	the	jumps	to	get	back	down.
Try	to	reach	highest	possible	step.	Repeat

Jump	both	high	and	long

Lateral	Stair	Jumps
This	is	a	multi-response	drill	in	which	you	should	hop	back	and	forth	with
minimum	ground	time.	Legs	are	not	together:	it	is	a	Lateral	Long	Jump	Drill
(Chapter	2)	executed	on	a	staircase.	It	is	even	better	if	you	can	use	a	very	wide
staircase	like	in	a	public	place,	where	you	can	jump	sideways	while	advancing
slowly	forward	with	each	jump.
Standing	sideways	at	the	bottom	of	the	stairs,	you	jump	off	one	leg	and	try	to
reach	the	highest	possible	step	with	the	other.	As	the	second	foot	reaches	the
high	step,	you	immediately	jump	back	down	to	the	starting	position	in	order	to
repeat.	If	the	set-up	allows	for	it,	it	is	recommended	to	jump	down	only	one	step
and	then	repeat;	in	this	way	you	minimize	ground	time	and	joint	pressure,	but
you	keep	going	up	as	the	exercise	proceeds.	Something	like:	three	steps	up/one
down…
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	minimizing	ground	time,	but	be	careful,	especially	on	the
jump	down.
Familiarize	yourself	with	the	drill	and	the	specific	stairs	before	trying	for
longer	jumps.
Drill	until	the	muscles	are	exhausted,	then	switch	legs	and	execute	on	the
other	side
The	jump	down	is	not	part	of	the	plyometric	exercise	and	is	hard	to	the
joints.	It	need	not	be	executed	forcefully	like	the	jump	up.
Lateral	long	jumps	on	the	stairs
Jump	laterally	high,	long	and	fast

Off-box	Onto	Stairs
In	this	drill,	fully	plyometric,	you	jump	off	a	box	and	then	immediately	up	onto
stairs,	to	the	highest	possible	step.	The	jump	up	is	therefore	both	high	and	long,
and	after	a	hop-off;	a	great	exercise,	with	the	added	benefit	of	a	jump	up	easier
on	the	joints.	But	as	with	anything	involving	stairs,	be	careful!
Do	a	few	dry	runs	to	position	the	box	in	front	of	the	stairs	at	the	right	distance
for	your	proficiency.	Then	increase	the	distance	and	difficulty	very	gradually.
This	is	not	a	multi-response	drill,	but	do	proceed	back	down	and	onto	the	box
with	no	delay.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	minimizing	ground	time	between	the	hop-off	and	jump	up.
Try	to	gradually	and	carefully	get	onto	a	higher	step.
Repeat	until	the	muscles	are	exhausted.
Hop	off	and	immediately	up	onto	the	highest	step	possible,	no	pause.	Repeat
	
Lateral	Up	and	Kick
This	is	a	lateral	step-up	followed	by	a	kick.	The	stairs	allow	for	a	higher	lateral
step-up,	and	for	a	continuous	exercise	(with	the	same	leg)	so	long	as	there	are
stairs	to	climb.	This	is	an	important	drill	that	allows	for	many	different	kick
types.
As	you	stand	laterally	at	the	bottom	of	the	stairs,	you	place	one	foot	on	the
highest	possible	stair	(Caution:	Start	carefully	from	one	step	only!).	From	this
position,	you	explosively	lift	yourself	up	on	this	foot	while	directly	chambering
your	kick.	At	right	the	front	kick	version	is	illustrated.	After	kicking	and
chambering	back,	you	lower	the	foot	onto	the	step	just	below.	You	then	repeat
the	exercise	without	any	pause,	lifting	the	non-kicking	leg	to	the	next	highest
possible	step.	The	idea	is	to	climb	up	two	or	three	steps	at	a	time,	each	time
lowering	the	kicking	foot	one	step	down.	2	up,	1	down;	2	up,	1	down.	Or	even
better:	3	up,	1	down;	3	up,	1	down.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	smooth	uninterrupted	work,	all	the	way	to	the	top	of	the
stairs.
Keep	practicing	one	side	until	exhausted,	then	switch	legs.
Start	carefully	and	gradually	from	one	step	only;	then	increase	the	number
of	steps	up.
Go	directly	into	kicking	chamber.
When	the	drill	is	mastered,	concentrate	to	minimize	ground	time	between
leg	down	and	next	step	up.
Step	up	laterally	two	steps,	kick,	lower	one	step,	repeat
	

As	mentioned,	the	drill	lends	itself	to	all	kinds	of	kicks	and	the	reader	is
encouraged	to	experiment	carefully.	The	sequence	below	illustrates	a	side	kick
version	and	below	that	is	the	drill	with	a	full	roundhouse	delivered	to	the	side
(no	pivot).
Lateral	up	and	Side	Kick,	repeat	in	series
Lateral	up	and	Roundhouse	Kick	to	the	side,	repeat	in	series
	

The	crescent	kicks	can	benefit	very	much	from	these	drills.	Many	other	kicks
can	be	drilled	but	showing	more	would	be	unnecessary.	Try	them!
Stairs	Lateral	Up	and	Crescent	Kick
Box	Switch	Jumps	(Revisited)
As	mentioned	in	Chapter	3,	the	Box	Switch	Jumps	Drill	can	be	executed	at	the
bottom	of	a	staircase.	Refer	to	previous	section.
Box	Switch	Jumps	at	the	bottom	of	a	staircase
Chapter	6:	Elastic	Bands,	Medicine	Balls	and
Weight	Plates
	
Elastic	bands	are	a	must-have
training	prop	for	the	Martial	Artist.	There	are
several	exercise	types	that	are	especially	suitable
for	the	kicker	that	we	shall	present.	Most	elastic
band	drills	have	a	certain	amount	of	“plyometry”
built-in	when	they	are	executed	in	series	with
minimum	pause.	Not	all	are	fully	“plyometric”,
but	definitely	all	are	beneficial.	They	should	be
part	of	every	kicking	artist’s	routines.	A	single
word	of	caution:	Beware	of	the	band	tearing
during	a	drill!	One	should	get	a	taste	of	being	hit
full	force	with	a	tearing	band	to	understand	the
amount	energy	built-in	and	the	bruising	and
damage	it	can	cause;	the	least	would	be	a	big
blue	ecchymosis.	It	is	recommended	to	discard
bands	showing	signs	of	tear	and	wear.
Medicine	Balls,	also	known	as	exercise	balls	or	fitness	balls,	are	heavy	balls	for
specific	fitness	drills.	There	are	many	exercises	possible,	many	of	them
plyometric	in	nature.	Medicine	balls	are	great	for	upper	body	and	abdominal
development.	They	also	can	be	used	for	legs	development	in	more	complex
drills,	but	we	shall	present	here	only	two	exercises,	with	a	partner,	for	the
plyometric	drilling	of	the	oblique	and	lateral	muscles.	These	muscles	are	part	of
all	kicking	maneuvers,	but	especially	important	in	circular	and	spinning	kicks.
Elastic	Band	Kicks
These	drills	are	simply	kicks	delivered	with	an	elastic	band	around	your	waist
and	pulling	you	backwards.	Those	are	ideal	for	thrusting	kicks,	where	the	hips
move	forward,	as	they	will	improve	the	explosive	power	of	the	muscles	involved
in	the	penetration	effect.	They	are	also	very	good	for	other	kicks,	like	full
roundhouses	or	crescent	kicks,	but	then	must	be	executed	with	less	pull-back.
The	only	kicks	not	suitable	for	the	drill	are	the	spin-back	kicks,	obviously.	A
very	important	point	is	to	always	remember,	at	the	end	of	the	drill	(at	least	ten
kicks),	to	execute	the	kick	likewise	but	without	the	elastic	band	to	feel	the	boost
of	energy	the	practice	gives	to	the	kicking	muscles.	Always	execute	five	“no-
band”	kicks	after	each	series.	You	should	be	amazed	by	the	results.
The	ideal	way	to	practice	is	with	two	partners:	one	holding	the	elastic	band	and
pulling	you	appropriately	backwards;	the	other	playing	the	role	of	the	target
“pulling”	you	in	just	enough	to	make	sure	you	try	to	go	a	little	further.	Of	course,
the	partner	holding	you	can	be	replaced	by	tying	the	band	to	the	wall,	an	exercise
ladder	or	a	door.	This	will	eliminate	the	fine	tuning	of	the	exercise	where	your
partner	pulls	back	just	enough	to	let	you	thrust	forward	with	effort.	But	it	is	good
enough	for	the	drill	if	you	make	sure	you	start	from	a	distance	stretching	the
band	just	enough.
Likewise,	the	“target	partner”	can	be	simply	imagined	or	replaced	by	a	heavy
bag	or	another	target.	Again,	it	will	not	have	the	“luring”	effect	of	a	moving
partner,	but	the	extra	mile	will	be	left	to	your	concentration	and	imagination.
Key	points
Explode	into	the	kick	with	no	preparatory	step	or	tell-tale	motion.	Avoid
telegraphing	your	intentions.
Try	gradually	to	increase	speed	and	distance
Make	sure	band	is	not	so	extended	that	you	lose	your	balance.	Keep
technical.
Always	do	at	least	10	reps	with	the	same	leg	with	minimal	pause	time	in
between	kicks
Always	finish	the	series	with	5	kicks	without	the	band,	at	full	speed	and
distance.
Elastic	band	penetrating	front	kick	with	two	partners
The	simplest	example	and	most	common	drill	is	the	straight	forward	kick,
illustrated	here	with	two	partners.	Repeat	at	least	ten	times	(or	until	exhausted)
with	the	same	leg,	drop	the	band	and	execute	“free-style”	(same	leg)	five	times.
Switch	legs	and	repeat.
Some	coaches	also	do	the	drill	with	weighted	ankles,	but	I	personally	think	that
is	overdoing	and	diverting	the	focus	from	the	main	purpose.
The	figures	below	illustrate	the	execution	of	the	drill	with	a	hopping	side	kick
with	a	“target-partner”.	The	elastic	band	is	fixed	on	a	hook	in	the	wall.	Principle
is	the	same:	execute	the	kick	as	far	as	possible	at	least	ten	times.	Strive	to	go
further	faster	each	time.	Then	release	the	band	and	execute	the	kick	five	times.
Repeat	on	the	other	side.
Elastic	band	front	leg	side	kick	with	one	partner
The	figures	below	illustrate	the	drill	with	a	rear	leg	crescent	kick	to	a	focus	pad
hold	by	a	partner.	Of	course	the	target	could	be	fixed	like	a	heavy	bag	or	a
punching	ball,	but	a	good	partner	will	always	be	better	at	getting	the	most	out	of
you.	The	principles	and	the	way	to	execute	stay	the	same	as	for	the	previous
kicks.
Elastic	band	rear-leg	crescent	kick	to	focus	pad
Many	other	kicks	are	suitable;	use	your	imagination	and	start	drilling.
Steps	and	Runs
These	are	the	more	classic	exercises	for	the	purpose	of	allowing	you	to	move
faster	to	close	the	distance	or	better	position	yourself	for	a	kick.
The	most	common	of	elastic	band	drills,	used	by	coaches	in	many	other	sport
disciplines,	is	the	Elastic	Band	Sprint.
As	illustrated	below	you	run	forward	while	a	partner	pulls	back	on	the	elastic
band	around	your	waist.	Your	partner	uses	his	body	weight	and	pulls	back	just
enough	to	allow	you	to	progress	slowly	forward.	You	should	sprint	for	ten	to
twenty	seconds,	and	then	come	back	to	your	starting	point	to	catch	your	breath.
Aim	to	repeat	ten	times.	Some	athletes	prefer	to	use	two	elastic	bands	across
their	chest	diagonally,	criss-crossed.
Elastic	band-restrained	front	kick
Front-leg	front	kick	with	elastic	band	resistance

This	drill	is	a	must	practice	for	stamina	and	muscle	power.	But,	on	top	of	it,	the
more	Martial	Arts-specific	versions	must	be	drilled.	Those	are	basically	the
stepping	techniques	specific	to	your	art	or	to	your	fighting	style.	We	shall	give	a
few	examples,	but	you	should	drill	the	specific	ones	you	use	in	general	practice.
Here	is	the	place	to	underscore	how	important	these	drills	are.	The	young	artist
could	be	looking	down	onto	these	exercises	as	not	challenging	or	interesting
enough;	he	would	be	making	a	serious	mistake.	The	experienced	fighter	knows
that	it	is	the	positioning,	the	timing	and	all	the	preparation	that	will	make	a
technique	successful,	not	the	technique	itself.	Learn	to	move	fast	first,	your	kicks
will	score!
Key	Points:
Partner	sensitivity	is	key	to	the	drill:	You	should	be	pulled	back	just	enough
to	make	forward	sprinting	difficult,	but	not	stopping	you.	Your	partner
slows	you	down	but	walks	behind	you	to	avoid	overstretching	of	the	band
or	slowing	you	too	much.
Make	sure	you	are	bent	forward	to	make	the	drill	about	the	legs,	not	the
lower	back
Sprint	with	elastic	band
The	Elastic	Band	Full	Step	is	the	classic	full	step	forward	of	traditional	martial
arts,	with	an	elastic	band	pulling	you	back.	This	drill	must	be	executed	with	an
experienced	partner	who	will	not	be	trying	to	hold	you	back,	but	will	be	exerting
just	enough	force	to	make	your	progression	difficult.	This	is	a	much	easier	“pull-
back”	than	for	the	Sprint	version.	Ideally,	you	should	be	allowed	to	do	two	full
steps	before	going	back	to	starting	position	and	repeat.	Keep	drilling	until	your
muscles	are	exhausted;	you	can	execute	a	classical	punch	with	each	step,	for
form.
Key	Points:
The	step	must	be	technically	good:	Make	sure	your	head	stays	at	level
during	all	of	the	step,	and	your	body	stays	straight.
Use	your	legs	and	hips
Do	not	pause	between	the	two	steps,	and	alternate	the	side	of	the	first	step
Full	Step	traditional	punch	with	elastic	band	pull-back
The	Elastic	Band	Half-Step	is	much	more	important	to	practical	fighting.	It	will
improve	your	speed	of	positioning	and	closing	the	gap.	As	illustrated	below	you
just	push	forward	from	the	back	leg	in	fighting	stance	to	move	the	front	leg
forward	up	to	half	the	distance	between	your	legs.	You	then	pull	in	the	back	leg
to	get	back	into	fighting	stance.	Repeat	fast,	progressing	forward	without
moving	anything	other	than	your	legs.	Your	partner	pulls	back	while	you	execute
ten	steps	in	series.	Go	back	to	starting	position	and	repeat	until	your	muscles	are
exhausted.	Then	do	a	five-steps	series	without	the	elastic	band,	trying	to	make
the	longest	and	most	explosive	half-steps	possible.	Then	repeat	on	the	other	side.
Key	points:
Concentrate	on	the	step	being	your	closing	the	distance	for	an	attack
Make	sure	that	your	head	stays	level	and	that	you	do	not	telegraph	the	step
in	any	way.
Repeat	in	series.	No	pause
Always	execute	with	no	band	at	the	end.
Move	 forward	 with	 exploding	 half-steps	 against	 band	 pull-back
	
The	Elastic	Band	Side	Cross	Step	is	a	great	drill	of	the	traditional	side	step	that
will	build	powerful	specific	muscles.	Do	practice	it,	even	if	you	think	the	step
itself	is	outmoded	in	modern	fighting.	You	should	practice	both	ways	to	cross
step:	crossing	in	front	(for	the	side	kick)	and	crossing	behind	(for	the	roundhouse
kick).	Therefore,	the	best	way	to	practice	the	drill	is	to	do	both	ways	in
sequence,	alternating	the	first	step.	In	side	stance,	with	a	partner	holding	the
elastic	band	around	your	waist,	cross-step	in	front,	then	behind.	If	possible,	do
four	steps	before	going	back	to	starting	position.	Repeat	until	exhausted,	then
execute	the	drill	with	no	band.
Key	Points:
Stay	technically	correct	in	spite	of	the	pull-back.
Make	sure	your	head	stays	level	and	you	use	only	your	legs
Always	execute	with	no	band	at	the	end	of	the	drill.
Progress	with	alternating	side	cross-steps	against	band	resistance.	Keep	head	level.

The	Elastic	Band	Side	Step	is	the	more	modern	version	of	the	traditional	Cross
Step.	The	principles	are	the	same	and	it	should	be	drilled	in	the	same	way.	There
is	no	front	or	behind-crossing	in	this	case,	just	bringing	the	feet	side	by	side,	but
still	one	should	strive	to	do	at	least	four	side-steps	before	going	back	to	starting
position.
Key	Points:
Make	sure	you	do	not	telegraph	the	step
Concentrate	on	the	execution	as	a	gap-closing	move	against	an	opponent.
Stay	level,	no	bobbing!
Shuffle	side	step	against	elastic	band	resistance
An	important	Step	combination	drill	is	the	half	step	+	shuffle,	illustrated	below.
The	principles	stay	the	same.
Fast	half-step	to	close	the	distance,	followed	by	shuffle,	against	band	resistance
	
Elastic	band-restrained	sprint
Half-step	drill	with	elastic	band

Side	hop	drill	with	elastic	band

There	are	many	other	steps	and	combinations	of	steps	that	can	be	so	practiced,
even	oblique	and	backward	steps.	Do	practice	those	you	use	with	the	elastic
band;	this	will	progressively	build	your	free-fighting	skills	in	ways	you	cannot
imagine.
Step	and	Kick
These	drills	are	the	combination	of	the	two	previous	ones,	on	which	foundation
they	are	built.	These	are	the	ultimate	drills	combining	the	step	that	will	lead	to
the	kick.	Again,	the	many	possible	exercises	are	left	to	the	reader’s	imagination.
Do	practice	the	basic	drills	and	then	your	own	preferred	kicking	techniques
accordingly.	These	drills	are	more	“plyometric”	in	that	they	are	a	kick	after	a
step,	in	series.	It	is	important	to	concentrate	on	the	step,	and	then	on	minimizing
the	time	between	the	step	and	the	kick.	Proceed	gradually.
The	most	classical	of	those	drills	is	the	Half-Step	Rear-Leg	Front	Kick
illustrated	below.	Your	partner	will	pull	you	back	just	enough	as	you	execute	half
a	step	forward,	immediately	followed	by	a	full-power	penetrating	rear-leg	front
kick.	Go	back	and	repeat,	about	ten	times.	Execute	then	five	times	with	no	band
and	repeat	on	the	other	side.
Key	Points:
Concentrate	on	a	“real	fighting”	execution.
Minimize	pause	between	step	and	kick.
Avoid	any	tell-tale	movement	telegraphing	your	step.
The	illustration	below	shows	a	Front-leg	Front	Kick	after	half-step	+	shuffle.
Small	step	forward	with	front	foot	followed	by	rear-leg	full-powered	penetrating	front	kick	with	hip	thrust
	
Half	step	and	front	rear	leg	front	kick	with	elastic	band
Small	 step	 forward,	 shuffle,	 front-leg	 penetrating	 front	 kick
	
Figures	below	illustrate	a	half-step	low	kick	(Low	Straight	Leg	Roundhouse
Kick)	with	full	hip	rotation.	In	this	exercise,	your	partner	must	pull	back
accordingly	to	allow	you	a	good	technical	kick.	It	is	also	recommended	you
practice	this	drill	with	a	second	partner	acting	as	a	target,	to	pull	you	in	and
allow	for	a	full-powered	kick	on	to	a	target	pad.	Remember	to	do	five	kicks
without	the	band	at	the	end	of	each	series.
Elastic	Band	Low	Kick	with	two	partners

Medicine	Ball	Twists
This	is	a	very	simple	exercise,	extremely	important	in	spite	of	the	fact	it	looks	so
easy.	As	shown	below,	you	simply	twist	to	pass	the	ball	to	your	partner	who,
standing	back–to-back	with	you,	twists	to	receive	it.	He	then	twists	as	fast	as
possible	to	hand	it	over	to	you	on	the	other	side.	Of	course,	you	have	twisted
yourself	to	collect	it.	You	keep	this	going,	as	fast	as	possible,	for	as	long	as
possible	until	your	muscles	get	exhausted.	Repeat	with	the	ball	turning	in	the
opposite	direction.
Key	Points:
Your	feet	are	stuck	in	the	ground,	unmovable.
Minimize	“ball	time”
Work	your	way	gradually	to	heavier	balls
After	the	drill,	execute	a	few	spinning	kicks
Simple	Medicine	Ball	Twists.	Execute	Fast

Medicine	Ball	Extended	Twists
This	drill	is	similar	to	the	previous	one,	and	the	principle	and	key	points	are	the
same.	The	only	difference	is	that,	this	time,	the	two	partners	stand	a	bit	further
away	from	one	another	and	twist	in	the	same	direction.	This	causes	the	ball	to
travel	in	an	“8”	pattern	instead	of	a	circle,	and	causes	the	partners	to	have	to
twist	even	more.	A	picture	being	worth	a	thousand	words,	it	will	easier	to	grasp
from	the	figures	below.
Drill	fast	with	legs	immobile.
A	bit	counter-intuitive	but	forces	an	extended	twist

Drill	for	fast	spinning	Kicks
This	drill,	and	the	previous	one,	are	extremely	important	for	explosive	spinning
kicks.
Weight	Plate	Sweeps
This	drill	uses	a	weight	plate;	start	light	at	10	pounds	and	increase	weight
gradually.	The	drill	is	a	multi-response	exercise	mimicking	a	classic	sweeping
throw	technique	(De	Ashi	Barai).	It	is	a	great	abductors/adductors	exercise	to	be
executed	continuously	without	any	pause.	You	simply	push	the	weight	plate	with
your	foot	as	if	you	were	sweeping	your	opponent’s	front	leg.	Step	and	repeat
immediately	as	illustrated	below.	Do	all	the	room’s	length	and	come	back	by
switching	legs.	Keep	at	it	until	muscles	feel	exhausted.	Concentrate	on	the	sweep
and	keep	hands	up	in	guard	as	if	a	real-life	sweep.	When	proficient,	increase	the
weight	to	be	swept.
Key	Points:
Do	not	rest	in	between	sweeps	or	when	switching	legs	at	the	end	of	the
room
Push	sideways	and	near	you;	push	across	your	body	line
Keep	pushing	leg	nearly	straight
Step,	Push	the	plate;	Repeat

Weight	Plate	Ground	Push
For	this	drill,	you	should	start	with	a	heavier	weight	plate,	let	us	say	20	or	30
pounds,	and	increase	gradually.	This	is	a	very	simple	but	hard	exercise:	Push
continuously	a	weight	plate	on	the	ground	as	illustrated	below.	Your	hands	are
on	the	plate	and	your	arms	are	straight,	as	in	a	push-up	position.	You	start
pushing	the	plate	around	the	room,	using	only	your	legs.	Work	with	fast	steps	to
make	this	drill	a	plyometric	multi-response	one.	Push	continuously	with	no
pause	until	exhausted.
Once	familiar	with	the	drill,	you	can	make	it	much	more	challenging	by	having	a
partner	use	an	elastic	band	to	pull	you	back;	of	course,	he	should	pull	just
enough	to	make	it	difficult	but	not	to	stop	your	forward	movement.	Your	partner
follows	you	around	the	room	while	pulling	you	back	slightly.
The	fantastic	Plate	Ground	Push
A	partner	and	an	elastic	band	will	make	the	drill	more	challenging
	

Part	2:	Flexiometrics
Chapter	7:	General
Principles	and	Theory
Flexibility	could	be	defined	as	the	ability	to	use	the	full	range	of	movement	of	a
joint	or	a	combination	of	joints	and	the	relevant	muscles	attached	to	those	joints.
Flexibility,	or	rather	the	personal	“full	range”	of	an	individual,	is	very	much
determined	by	genetics	but	can	be	improved	markedly	by	stretching.	Stretching
is	the	elongation	of	the	muscles,	joints	and	connective	tissues	in	order	to
improve	flexibility.
For	the	kicking	Martial	Artist,	the	importance	of	flexibility	is	obvious:	it	will
allow	for	longer	and	higher	reach.	Hidden,	though,	is	another	important,	and
maybe	more	important	benefit	of	high	flexibility:	Speed.	Even	if	you	kick	low,
flexibility	will	allow	for	a	faster	kick.
Flexibility	allows	you	to	kick	higher…	and	faster

Speed	being	a	part	of	the	“explosiveness”	equation,	it	is	important	for	all	athletic
activities.	Flexibility	improves	speed	potential.	And	as	plyometrics	are	based	on
contracting	a	stretched	muscle,	flexibility	will	also	improve	potential	results
from	plyometric	training.
The	other	benefits	of	stretching	are	common	to	all	sports:	better	muscle	tone,
less	danger	of	injury,	easy	use	of	the	full	range	of	joint	movement	and	reduction
of	muscle	soreness.	And	the	relaxing	effect	of	stretching	is	clear	to	anyone	who
has	capped	a	full	yoga	session	with	a	meditation	and	relaxation	posture:	care
must	be	taken	in	order	not	to	fall	asleep,	and	the	feeling	of	well-being	is	great
and	different	from	any	other	brought	by	exercise.
The	generally	accepted	theory	of	stretching	differentiates	between	several	types
of	stretching:
1.	Static	Stretching:	You	basically	hold	a	position	at	its	full-range	of	motion,	like
the	splits.	Some	authors	differentiate	further	between	Static-Passive	where
gravity	helps	to	maintain	the	position	(Splits);	and	Static-Active	where	the
muscles	are	used	to	maintain	the	position	(Also	called	Active	Flexibility
Stretching).	Yoga	is	the	embodiment	of	static	stretching,	and	its	results	for
flexibility	speak	for	themselves.	The	physiological	theory	stresses	that	there	is
no	need	to	hold	a	stretch	longer	than	twenty	seconds	to	benefit	from	it,	although
twelve	seconds	is	a	minimum.
Static	Passive	stretching	–	gravity	helped
2.	Dynamic	stretching:	This	is	obviously	stretching	while	moving	and	uses	the
full	range	of	a	joint	movement	at	regular	or	high	speed,	and	usually	in	a	specific
sport	application.	You	basically	stretch	the	muscle	dynamically	into	an	extended
range	of	motion,	BUT	not	exceeding	your	static-passive	stretching	ability.	An
example	is	the	straight-leg	front	kick,	in	which	you	balance	your	leg	higher	and
higher,	but	not	more	than	the	front	splits	you	could	do	on	the	floor.
Dynamic	Stretching:	Straight-leg	Front	Kick
3.	Ballistic	stretching:	This	is	the	“old”	and	bad	way	to	stretch.	It	uses	the	energy
of	bouncing	motions	to	further	lengthen	the	muscles	and	increase	the	range	of
motion,	trying	to	gradually	force	your	way	a	bit	further.	This	has	a	greater
potential	to	cause	injury	and	does	not	lengthen	the	tissues.	Do	you	remember	the
Stretch	Reflex	mentioned	in	“Plyometrics”?	Bouncing	causes	this	reflex	and
therefore	the	automatic	contracting	of	the	muscle!	Not	good!
4.	Passive	Stretching:	This	is	another	word	for	partner	training,	although	the
partner	can	be	replaced	by	equipment	and	stretching	machines.	In	principle,	you
relax	your	muscles	and	let	the	partner	increase	slowly	and	gradually	the	range	of
motion.	It	has	the	great	advantage	to	allow	for	stretching	beyond	the	static	range
of	motion,	but	it	requires	great	care	and	sensitivity	from	your	partner.	Also,	the
speed	of	pressure	must	be	carefully	controlled	to	avoid	the	stretch	reflex	to	set
in.
Passive	stretching:	The	hip	joint	in	Roundhouse	Kick	Chamber
There	are	more	sophisticated	stretching	strategies,	but	they	are	beyond	the	scope
of	this	book.
We	shall	not	delve	into	the	physiology	of	stretching,	as	it	has	no	direct	bearing	in
how	to	train	besides	what	has	already	been	written.	The	muscles	are	composed
of	different	sorts	of	fibers,	based	on	different	proteins	and	configurations.	Some
specific	proteins	have	more	bearing	to	the	elasticity	of	the	fiber	than	others	but
their	names	will	not	help	the	artist.	The	joints	and	connective	tissues	also	play	a
key	role,	but	most	of	it	is	common	sense.	Most	of	the	connective	tissues	that
include	well-known	collagen	are	viscoelastic	in	nature.	It	simply	means	that,
when	stretched,	they	do	not	revert	immediately	to	their	former	state	like	elastic,
but	do	so	very	slowly	and	gradually.	This	explains	partly	why	flexibility	will
tend	to	decrease	if	you	stop	training.
While	stretching,	the	artist	has	to	cause	the	body	to	reconfigure	itself	in	a	more
flexible	set-up;	this	will	be	achieved	by	going	very	slowly	and	gradually	a	bit
further	each	time,	avoiding	the	“stretch	reflex”,	and	by	lowering	the	sensitivity
signals	sent	by	the	neurological	interfaces	to	the	muscles	and	joints.	The	only
way	to	do	all	that	is	by	stretching	SLOWLY,	relaxing,	and	making	use	of	the
reciprocal	inhibition	reflex.	This	is	fancy	wording	for	the	body’s	tendency	to
relax	a	muscle	when	the	antagonistic	muscle	is	contracted.	In	other	words	and
for	example,	in	your	full	stretch,	slowly	contract	your	quadriceps	to	further	relax
your	hamstrings.
Caution
Stretching	must	be	done	very	carefully.	It	is	obvious,	as	it	is	dealing	with
elasticity.	Overstretching	anything	elastic	can	cause	irreversible	damage.	On	the
other	hand,	stretching	has	been	demonstrated	to	prevent	future	injuries	when
done	properly,	and	to	have	a	long-term	protective	effect.
This	book	advocates	training	sessions	exclusively	dedicated	to	stretching,	but
appropriate	stretching	should	also	be	practiced	in	the	warm-up	and	cool-down
parts	of	regular	training	sessions;	more	on	that	further	on.
Dedicated	stretching	should	only	be	done	after	warming-up,	as	the	warmed
muscle	lends	itself	to	more	stretching	and	less	danger	of	injury.
Stretching	must	be	done	carefully,	by	“listening”	to	your	body:	You	have	to
reach	your	maximum	static	range	of	motion	slowly,	with	relaxed	muscles	and
without	bouncing.	The	position	should	be	held	comfortably	for	about	20
seconds.	If	you	feel	it	is	not	possible,	you	are	already	too	far;	more	on	the
methodology	further	on.
Never	stretch	an	injured	muscle.	Do	not	use	warming	balms	(Deep	Heat,
BenGay,	Tiger	Balm,	and	others)	as	substitutes	to	a	physical	warm-up;	those	are
excellent	for	after-training,	or	in	combination	with	a	real	physical	warm-up.
It	will	never	be	said	enough:	NEVER	bounce	or	use	jerky	movements	when	you
stretch!
Stretching	is	no	contest:	Do	not	try	to	“beat”	a	partner	or	friend!	Stretching	is
doing	your	own	best	in	the	framework	of	your	genetic	potential,	and	improving
yourself	slowly	and	gradually:	You	compare	to	yourself	only!
Methodology	for	the	Martial	Artist
It	has	already	been	made	clear	how	important	stretching	is	for	the	martial	artist:
Flexibility,	high	Kicks	and	Speed!
This	book	refers	to	dedicated	stretching	sessions,	not	to	the	warm-up	and	cool-
down	parts	of	other	types	of	training	sessions.	The	principles	stay	the	same,	with
a	bit	more	dynamic	stretching	during	warm-up.	Any	stretch	can	be	done	during
cool-down	as	the	muscles	and	joints	are	then	very	warm	and	supple,	but	the
purpose	there	is	relaxation	and	light	stretching	to	avoid	a	shortening	of	the
muscle	later	in	the	recuperation	phase	(especially	after	power	and	weight	work).
All	the	stretching	exercises	presented	here	can	be	done	in	the	cool-down	part	of
regular	training.	Stretching	cool-down	is	a	must	after	the	plyometrics	sessions
described	in	the	first	part	of	this	book.	But	a	cool-down	session	should	not
exceed	15	minutes.
With	the	exception	of	Dynamic	Stretching	that	will	be	treated	briefly	and
separately,	the	Martial	Artist	should	mainly	stretch	in	the	Static-Passive	way,	in
the	way	Yogis	train.	A	few	drills	of	Passive	Stretching	with	a	partner	will	be
presented,	as	those,	when	well	done,	are	beneficial	and	do	tend	to	promote
camaraderie	in	the	school.	They	are,	in	fact,	similar	to	the	help	provided	by	the
teacher	or	props	in	Yoga	class.
The	constant	reference	of	the	author	to	Yoga	is	not	random:	Yoga,	from	most
schools,	is	definitely	the	best	way	to	promote	flexibility.	It	also	promotes	core-
muscles	building,	balance,	breathing	and	concentration;	and	the	cross-practice	of
Yoga	is	highly	recommended	to	the	Martial	Artist.	Unfortunately,	not	every	artist
has	the	time	or	opportunity	to	add	Yoga	to	his	crammed	schedule.	Therefore,	this
book	will	present	the	most	important	stretching	moves	for	the	kicking	artist,	and
whenever	relevant,	will	mention	the	Yoga	posture	name.
The	drill	methodology	is	also	that	of	Yoga:
After	warming	up,	the	artist	will	take	the	position	described	slowly.	He	will	then
stretch	slowly	and	gradually	close	to	his	maximum.	He	will	hold	this	position	for
approximately	20	seconds,	while	trying	to	relax	the	stretched	muscles.	He
should,	when	possible,	try	to	go	a	bit	further	by	contracting	slowly	the
antagonists	(the	opposing	muscles),	and	then	relaxing	more.	Once	relaxed	and
while	breathing	out,	the	artist	will	try	to	slowly	deepen	his	range	of	motion	a
little	bit	more,	avoiding	the	kick-in	of	the	“Stretch	Reflex”.	He	should	try	to	hold
this	maximum	position	for	another	10	to	20	seconds.	Going	out	of	the	stretch
should	also	be	done	slowly	and	gradually.	A	stretch	should	be	executed	twice,
before	progressing	to	another	one.
Relaxing	and	controlling	your	breath	will	be	key	to	your	progress,	by	allowing
you	to	better	control	of	the	stretch	reflex	and	automatic	antagonistic	body
reaction.
Dedicated	stretching	sessions	of	one	full	hour	will	help	the	Martial	Artist	access
a	higher	level.	But	again,	the	body	needs	rest	from	stretching	as	well.	There
should	be	at	least	one	day	of	rest	between	the	sessions,	and	more	than	three
sessions	a	week	is	not	recommended.
The	golden	rules	of	stretching
Always	warm	up	before	stretching.
Proceed	slowly	and	gradually.	No	bouncing	or	jerky	moves!
Avoid	direct	air	flow	while	stretching.	No	air	conditioning	or	fan	directed	to	you.
Do	not	overtrain.	Full	sessions:	never	on	consecutive	days.	No	more	than	one
day	on/one	day	off.
Do	not	stretch	injured	muscles	or	joints.	In	stretching,	“No	pain,	no	gain”	is	a
counter-truth.	If	a	stretch	hurts,	stop	immediately.
No	need	to	hold	a	final	position	more	than	twenty	seconds.
Come	out	of	stretch	poses	slowly.
Chapter	8:	Dynamic	Stretching
These	exercises,	as	mentioned,	are	more	for	the	warm-up	phase	of	any	work-out,
including	flexiometrics	sessions.	We	shall	only	present	a	few	drills	as	it	is	not	the
core	matter	of	this	book.	The	moves	must	be	practiced	gradually	and	carefully.
The	range	of	motion	should	never	exceed	the	maximum	static	stretch	range.
A	warm–up	session	should	be	started	with	an	overall	warming	exercise	like
hopping,	rope	skipping	or	light	jogging.	The	author	believes	that	a	subsequent
good	way	to	warm	up	would	be	abdominal	exercises,	as	they	also	have
tremendous	overall	benefits.	Crunches,	leg	raises	and	similar	drills	will	both
warm	up	safely,	while	strengthening	the	abdominal	belt.	Further	warming-up	can
be	achieved	with	regular	old-fashioned	calisthenics.	The	author	proposes	instead
to	execute	slow-motion	kicking	maneuvers,	increasing	speed	and	height	slowly
and	gradually,	but	this	is	open	to	everyone’s	preferences.
Once	the	body	is	warmed	up,	here	are	a	few	iconic	dynamic	stretching	exercises,
to	be	performed,	of	course,	on	both	sides:
	
The	Straight	Leg	Front	Kick
This	is	a	classic	kick	in	itself.	Basically,	one	throws	the	front	leg	held	straight
gradually	higher,	and	ultimately	as	high	as	possible.	See	below.	Repeat	with	the
same	leg	at	least	ten	times,	preferably	without	lowering	to	the	ground.	This
exercise	is	obviously	directly	beneficial	to	many	high	kicks.
Straight	leg	front	kick.	Repeat	without	lowering	the	leg,	as	a	pendulum
	
Front	view	of	the	straight-leg	Front	Kick
A	Lotus	Kick	will	obviously	benefit	from	the	drill
The	Straight	Leg	Side	Kick
This	is	simply	the	side	kick	version	of	the	previous	kick.	The	principles	are	the
same:	proceed	slowly	and	gradually	with	the	leg	held	straight.	Repeat,	preferably
without	lowering	the	leg.	The	trainee	can	lean	on	the	wall	or	a	dance	bar	for
better	balance.
The	straight-leg	Side	Kick	drill

A	high	Upward	Side	Kick	in	use
The	drill	will	obviously	be	highly	beneficial	to	high	side	kicks,	especially
upward	ones.
The	Straight	Leg	Front-Back	Pendulum
This	is	a	variation	of	the	first	kick:	when	you	lower	the	leg,	instead	of	slowing
down,	you	keep	the	momentum	alive	and	throw	the	straight	leg	backwards	in	a
“straight-leg	back	kick”.	You	slowly	try	to	go	as	high	as	possible	on	both	the
forward	and	the	backward	move.	Keep	your	upper	body	as	straight	as	possible.
Straight	leg	balanced	back	and	forth	as	high	as	possible
	

This	drill	will	be	good	for	overall	hip	flexibility,	but	especially	beneficial	to	back
kicks	and	their	variations.
The	Side	Knee	Raise
This	is	the	lifting	of	the	bent	knee	to	the	side	in	the	chamber	position	of	the	full
roundhouse	kick.	Lift	gradually	as	high	as	possible.	Repeat,	preferably	without
lowering	the	foot	to	the	floor.
Lift	the	knee	progressively	as	high	as	possible

Besides	the	overall	flexibility	benefits,	this	drill	will	improve	both	the	speed	and
the	reach	of	your	roundhouse	kicks.
Respectively	faster	and	higher	kicks
The	Inside	Crescent	Kick
This	is	a	very	important	kick	in	itself	and	the	reader	is	again	referred	to	its
classic	execution.	The	kick	is	to	be	practiced	gradually	higher	and	wider.	The
drill	can	also	be	practiced	with	a	partner	holding	his	hand	higher	and	higher	to
force	you	to	pass	over	it.
The	 inside	 Crescent	 Kick	 as	 a	 dynamic	 flexibility	 drill
	
Kick	 over	 a	 partner’s	 extended	 hand,	 gradually	 held	 higher
	
The	Outside	Crescent	Kick
This	is	the	opposite	maneuver	of	the	previous	kick	discussed.	Everything	said
stays	valid.
The	outside	Crescent	Kick,	practice	high	and	wide
A	partner’s	hand	will	help	you	kicking	higher	and	higher
	
The	Phantom	Groin	Kick
Again	a	kick,	and	quite	an	effective	one	at	that.	The	reader	can	again	refer	to	its
classic	execution	and	applications.	The	kick	should	be	practiced	loosely	and	in	a
relaxed	manner,	trying	to	reach	higher	and	higher.	This	is	a	very	important
exercise,	as	proficiency	in	kicking	requires	great	flexibility	of	the	knee	joint	that
is	often	under-trained.
Try	to	lift	the	lower	leg	parallel	to	the	floor
The	phantom	groin	kick	is	a	redoubtable	strike
	
Cobbler	Dynamic	Stretch
This	is	a	classic	of	martial	arts	warm-up.	In	cobbler’s	pose,	flip	your	knees	up
and	down	progressively	wider.	The	static	version	of	the	stretch	will	be	presented
later	in	detail.
This	stretch	is	beneficial	for	all	kicks,	but	especially	so	for	the	convoluted	ones
progressing	along	a	changing	trajectory.
There	are	many	more	possible	stretches	and	the	experienced	artist	is	probably
familiar	with	most	of	them.	Remember,	dynamic	stretching	is	mainly	for
warming	up.	Intense	Flexiometrics	call	for	static-passive	yoga-type	stretching.
Move	your	knees	up	and	down,	gradually	lower
An	 important	 exercise	 for	 kicks	 like	 the	 Outward-tilted	 Front	 Kick
	

Chapter	9:	Lower	Leg	Stretching
Lower	leg	stretching	is	important	for	overall	fitness	and	injury	prevention.	For
the	kicking	artist,	it	will	be	of	particular	importance	for	speed	of	positioning	and
for	kicks	requiring	fast	pivots	on	the	standing	foot	like	roundhouse	or	spinning
kicks.	It	is	a	great	preparation	for	many	plyometrics	exercises.
Roundhouse	Kick
Anterior	Lower	Leg
The	main	stretch	for	the	anterior	lower	leg	is	simply	sitting	on	your	knees	and
heels.	Yoga’s	Vajrasana.	This	is,	of	course,	also	the	classic	sitting	and	meditative
position	of	most	Asian	Martial	Arts,	and	should	pose	no	problem	for	the
experienced	artist.
Easy	but	important:	Yoga’s	Vajrasana
Some	people	are	especially	stiff	though,	and	the	pose	can	be	approached
gradually:	Sitting	on	the	toes	first,	then	the	use	of	a	cushion	under	the	feet.
The	stiffer	trainee	should	sit	on	his	toes	first	and	then	try	the	stretch	with	a	cushion	under	the	feet
	
The	trainee	should	then	drill	the	basic	stretch	alternatively	with	opened	and
closed	knees,	as	it	stretches	the	muscles	differently.	To	progress,	the	trainee
should	then	sit	with	a	cushion	under	the	knees	to	further	stretch	the	anterior
ankle	and	lower	leg.	Alternatively,	he	should	pull	on	his	own	toes	when	sitting	to
stretch	these	muscles	even	more.
Stretch	with	closed	and	opened	knees	alternatively

Once	the	pose	is	easy,	the	trainee	looking	for	a	challenge	should	proceed	to
sitting	with	his	bottom	between	the	heels.	This	pose,	Yoga’s	Virasana	(or	Hero’s
pose),	is	much	more	difficult	and	has	the	additional	effect	to	stretch	the	front
knee.	It	should	be	approached	very	carefully	and	gradually.
More	challenging:	Cushion	under	knees	or	pull	up	on	your	toes
	
Sitting	between	the	knees:	Yoga’s	Hero’s	pose
The	next	stage	would	be	reclining	with	the	back	on	the	floor	to	the	Supta
Virasana	pose	presented	later	for	the	additional	stretching	of	the	quadriceps	(See
Chapter	12)	and	illustrated	in	step	8.	The	progression	of	kneeling	poses	in	order
of	difficulty	is	presented	below.
Progressively	more	challenging	to	the	Anterior	Lower	Leg
	

Posterior	Lower	Leg
Downward	Dog	Poses
The	Downward	Dog	Pose	(Adho	Mukha	Svanasana),	shown	below	is	one	of	the
most	recognizable	Yoga	poses.	It	is	a	highly	beneficial	pose,	stretching	the
shoulders,	the	spine,	the	hamstrings	and	the	calves.	It	also	irrigates	the	brain	and
allows	for	breathing	exercises.	In	our	case,	we	want	here	to	concentrate	on	the
lower	leg	muscles	and	tissues,	which	calls	for	what	is	referred	to	as	a	“Long
Dog”,	meaning	a	longer	distance	between	heels	and	hands.	A	shorter	Dog	will
work	more	the	hamstrings	and	take	off	some	strain	from	the	arms	and	wrists.	As
we	are	trying	to	concentrate	on	the	calves	and	adjoining	muscles,	it	is	imperative
to	concentrate	on	their	stretching,	to	keep	the	legs	straight	and	to	strive	to	keep
the	heels	on	the	ground.	The	beginner	should	do	a	shorter	dog,	but	strive	as
much	as	possible	to	straighten	his	legs	and	keep	his	heels	on	the	floor.	With
training,	he	will	then	increase	the	distance	between	his	hands	and	feet	for	more
calf	stretch.
Key	points:
In	all	variations,	concentrate	on	the	specific	muscles	and	joints	you	need	to
work	on;	in	our	case	here:	the	calves’	muscles.	The	longer	the	distance
between	your	hands	and	feet,	the	more	the	lower	leg	stretch.
Keep	your	heels	on	the	ground.	Or	strive	to!
Stretch	as	per	the	principles	exposed	above;	twenty	seconds	and	the	right
methodology.
The	Downward	Dog	pose	for	calf	stretch
The	stiffer	artist	will	benefit	by	starting	with	an	“Alternating	Dog”,	lifting	the
heel	of	one	foot	to	better	stretch	the	other	one.	See	below.
Stretch	one	calf	at	a	time
The	more	flexible	artist	will	try	to	do	a	full	Dog	Pose	with	all	its	other	stretching
benefits.	He	will	also	proceed	to	the	more	intense	“One-Leg	Dog	Pose”	(Eka
Pada	Adho	Mukha	Svanasana	),	in	which	more	body	weight	is	placed	on	the	one
stretched	calf.	Drill	both	sides.
The	more	intense	One-leg	downward	dog	pose
The	progression	of	the	various	“Dog	Poses”	in	terms	of	difficulty	is	presented
here.
From	easy	to	more	challenging:	Small	Dog,	Big	Dog	on	toes,	Big	Dog,	One-leg	Dog
	

Flexed	Foot	Front	Leg	Stretch
With	your	front	foot	10	to	15	inches	in	front	of	the	rear	foot,	flex	the	front	foot
as	much	as	possible	while	keeping	the	heel	on	the	floor.	Lower	you	head	towards
your	front	knee	to	stretch.	This	is	also	a	hamstring	and	a	lower	back	stretch;
therefore	you	must	concentrate	on	the	posterior	lower	leg	and	keep	the	foot
flexed	at	its	maximum.
This	is	a	variation	of	the	yoga	pose	Parsvottanasana,	but	concentrating	on	the
lower	leg.
Key	points:
Flexed	foot	at	all	times
Concentrate	on	calf	muscles
Keep	front	leg	straight
Front	Leg	stretch:	Concentrate	on	flexed	foot
Back-of-the	Knee	Sitting	One	Legged	Stretch
This	is	Yoga’s	Janu	Sirsasana:	Sitting	with	one	leg	straight	and	the	other	bent
with	the	sole	of	the	foot	against	the	inner	thigh	of	the	extended	leg.	You	lower
the	chin	towards	the	extended	knee	while	pulling	on	the	toes.	This	exercise
stretches	the	spine,	the	hamstring,	the	back	of	the	knee	and	the	posterior	lower
leg.	Switch	sides.
Key	points:
Pull	up	on	your	toes:	the	stretch	should	mainly	be	about	your	posterior	knee
and	lower	leg.
Strive	to	completely	straighten	your	leg,	then	only	bend	forward.
The	foot	should	be	flexed	at	its	maximum.
Yoga’s	Head-to-knee	forward	bend
Should	the	stretch	be	difficult,	you	should	use	a	band	or	a	towel	to	extend	your
reach,	as	exemplified	in	the	next	variation.
Ankle-over-thigh	forward	bend:	start	with	a	band	(left)
	
A	variation	of	the	stretch,	especially	beneficial	if	the	basic	stretch	is	relatively
easy	for	you,	calls	for	placing	the	ankle	of	the	bent	leg	on	the	top	of	your
extended	thigh.	This	makes	the	stretch	more	difficult	while	also	stretching	the
muscles	of	the	bent	leg.	It	is	recommended	to	begin	gradually,	with	the	aid	of	a
band	or	a	towel	to	extend	your	reach,	as	shown	below	left.	Again,	concentrate	on
pulling	on	your	toes,	not	on	the	spine	bend.
In	those	back-of-the-knee	exercises,	concentrate	on	pulling	on	the	toes!
Sitting	Two	Legged	Stretch
Yoga’s	iconic	Paschimottanasana	is	the	natural	continuation	of	the	previous
stretches,	bending	now	over	both	extended	legs.	Again,	do	concentrate	on
pulling	on	the	toes,	as	we	are	trying	to	stretch	the	back	of	the	knee.	And	do
proceed	gradually,	with	the	help	of	props	if	necessary.
Yoga’s	 Seated	 Forward	 Bend,	 starting	 with	 the	 help	 of	 a	 band
	

Crossed-legged	Standing	Forward	Bend
This	is	a	variation	of	Yoga’s	Uttanasana	that	concentrates	on	the	back	of	the
knee.	It	is	a	very	important	drill.	You	simply	cross	your	legs	in	standing	position,
and	then	bend	forward	as	much	as	possible.	The	crossing	of	the	legs	will	cause
the	rear	leg	to	be	extended	at	its	maximum.	Strive	to	touch	the	floor,	then	bring
your	head	to	your	forward	knee.	Maintain	the	position	as	per	our	guidelines.
Switch	legs.
The	key	points	are	the	same	as	for	the	one-legged	versions.	Remember
especially	the	pulling	on	the	toes.
Key	points:
Feet	flat	on	the	floor
Legs	straight
Concentrate	on	the	posterior	muscles	of	the	rear	leg.
Cross	straight	legs	and	bend!
Cross	straight	legs	and	bend	forward
Lying	One	Legged	Stretch
This	is	Yoga’s	Supta	Padangusthasana.	Lying	on	your	back	with	both	legs
straight,	you	simply	pull	on	the	toes	of	one	leg	in	order	to	bring	it	towards	your
face.	The	other	leg	stays	straight	on	the	floor.	Proceed	gradually,	starting	with	a
band	or	a	towel	around	your	toes.	Switch	legs.
Remember	that	Back-of-the-knee	stretch	requires	flexed	foot	and	pulling	on	the
toes.
Key	points:
Pull	on	your	toes	with	the	foot	flexed	at	its	maximum.
Upper	body	and	other	leg	stay	in	contact	with	the	floor
Both	legs	fully	straightened
Yoga’s	Reclining	Big	Toe	Pose,	starting	gradually
Pull	on	your	toes	while	pulling	the	leg	to	you
Chapter	10:	Hamstrings	Stretching
It	is	obvious	to	the	experienced	artist	that	a	flexible	hamstring	will	allow	for	high
and	fast	kicking,	especially	of	straight	kicks.	The	hamstring	stretches	do	also
elongate	the	lower	back	and	are	probably	the	most	recognizable	stretching
exercises	for	all	sports.	Their	benefits	for	general	fitness	are	many	and	cannot	be
under-stressed.
Fast	High	Kicks	require	flexible	hamstrings
Sitting	Bends
One	Legged	Sitting	Bends
This	is	again	Yoga’s	Janu	Sirsasana,	but	this	time	with	the	emphasis	on
stretching	the	hamstring.	But	in	this	version,	you	will	not	forcefully	flex	the	foot
and	you	will	not	catch	your	toes.	In	fact,	the	opposite	is	true:	you	will	try	to	relax
the	foot,	so	as	to	concentrate	on	the	rear	upper	thigh	when	stretching.	Bend
forward,	while	trying	to	reach	your	knee	with	your	chin;	and	strive	to	catch	your
foot,	or	better	your	heel.	Not	the	toes.	If	you	can,	just	place	your	forearms	on	the
ground	on	both	sides	of	your	extended	leg.
If	you	are	stiff	and	have	difficulties,	you	can	use	a	band	to	catch	your	foot	and
pull	yourself	in,	but	the	band	should	be	around	the	heel,	not	the	toes.	Better
even,	have	a	partner	help	you	as	illustrated,	in	the	passive	assisted	version	of	the
drill.
Key	points:
Do	not	pull	on	your	toes,	as	it	will	limit	the	hamstring	stretch.	This	is	a
different	stretch.	Relax	the	feet	and	pull	on	the	heels.
Elongate	your	spine	as	you	bend	down;	try	to	reach	not	only	down	but	far.
Concentrate	on	the	hamstring	and	make	sure	you	feel	its	stretch.
Yoga’s	Janu	Sirsasana.	Start	gradually	with	a	partner	help	if	necessary
	
Do	not	pull	on	your	toes,	but	your	heel
Two	Legged	Sitting	Bends
This	is	now	the	classic	Yoga	pose	Paschimottanasana,	with	emphasis,	this	time,
on	the	hamstring	stretch,	not	on	the	toes.	Refer	to	page	116	and	the	previous
page.	Sitting	with	extended	legs,	bend	forward	and	strive	to	reach	the	knees	with
your	chin.	Pull	on	your	lower	legs,	ankles	or	feet	if	necessary,	but	not	on	your
toes.	Keep	your	feet	relaxed	and	concentrate	on	the	hamstring	stretch.	Exhale
and	tuck	your	belly	in	for	more	reach.	Like	in	the	previous	exercises,	use	a	band
or	a	partner	to	help	you	gradually	improve.
Key	Points:
Feet	relaxed,	not	flexed
Legs	completely	straight	and	together
Elongate	the	spine	as	you	bend	down
Yoga’s	Paschimottanasana.	Also	passive	assisted
	
“Do	not	pull	on	your	toes,	but	the	heels	or	the	plants	of	the	feet”

Open-legged	Sitting	Bends
This	is	Yoga’s	Upavistha	Konasana,	the	open	legged	version	of	the	previous
stretch.	This	is	a	great	stretch	in	which	the	belly	does	not	limit	the	range	of	the
stretch	as	it	is	not	hindered	by	the	thighs.	Sitting	on	the	floor	with	the	legs
opened,	you	simply	bend	towards	the	floor,	striving	to	reach	the	floor	with	the
chin,	as	far	as	possible.	As	per	your	personal	preferences,	your	hands	could	help
“pulling”	on	the	floor	in	front	of	you,	as	illustrated,	or	“push”	from	the	feet.	The
more	flexible	trainees	will	strive	to	place	the	whole	upper	body	in	contact	with
the	floor.
Key	Points:
Legs	straight	and	feet	relaxed
Open	legs	as	wide	as	naturally	possible,	but	without	stretching	out	more,	in
order	to	concentrate	on	the	hamstring.	Stretching	wider	will	also	stretch	the
adductors	which	we	do	not	emphasize	now.
Lengthen	your	spine	as	you	bend	down.
Yoga’s	Upavistha	Konasana.	Reach	as	far	as	possible	between	your	straight	legs
	
Strive	to	place	your	 whole	upper	body	in	 contact	with	the	 floor
	

Lying	Leg	Pulls
This	is,	again,	simply	the	“hamstring	version”	of	the	previously	encountered
Supta	Padangusthasana	of	Yoga.	Please	refer	to	page	118.	This	time	though,	you
will	pull	on	the	ankle	or	the	heel	of	the	stretched	leg,	not	the	toes.	Lying	down
on	your	back,	you	will	strive	to	pull	in	the	knee	of	one	leg	towards	your	nose.
You	must	keep	your	back	and	the	other	leg	straight	and	on	the	floor.	Switch
sides.
Key	points:
Both	legs	must	be	totally	straight
Back	and	second	leg	must	be	on	the	floor	at	all	times
Do	not	lift	the	head	or	curve	the	back
Yoga’s	Supta	Padangusthasana.	Pull	in	the	straight	leg	to	your	nose
	
If	you	are	stiff,	it	is	recommended	you	proceed	gradually	and	carefully:	1)	Pull
the	straightened	leg	in,	but	with	the	other	leg	bent.	2)	Use	a	band	to	pull	the	leg
in.	3)	Have	a	partner	assist	you	in	passive	stretching.
Proceed	gradually	and	carefully	into	the	stretch
	

Pull	on	the	heel,	not	the	toes
Standing	Elevated	One	Legged	Bends
This	is	a	classic	relaxing	hamstring	stretch	widely	used	by	joggers	and	bicycle
enthusiasts.	You	will	execute	it	with	more	intent	and	concentration	to	elongate
your	hamstrings.	With	one	leg	elevated	on	a	table,	dancing	bar	or	other	prop,	or
even	held	by	a	partner,	you	bend	down	towards	your	straightened	knee.	Make
sure	both	legs	are	totally	straight	and	adjust	the	leg	elevation	to	your	proficiency.
Switch	legs.
Key	points:
Both	legs	straight
Elongate	spine	as	you	bend	down
The	standing	leg	should	be	about	vertical	for	this	stretch.	Do	not	go	for	a
splits-like	position;	if	easy,	you	should	elevate	the	leg	more.
Strive	to	place	your	chin	onto	your	elevated	knee
	
Standing	Front	Bends
Front	Leg	Bends
Yoga’s	Parsvottanasana	is	the	simple	bending	over	the	straightened	front	leg.
Simple	it	seems,	but	a	great	hamstring	stretch	it	is.	Switch	legs.
Key	Points:
Both	legs	are	straight
Elongate	your	spine	as	you	bend	down
Concentrate	on	your	hamstrings
Strive	to	place	chin	on	knee	of	straightened	front	leg
	
There	are	variations	of	the	pose	with	different	placement	of	the	arms.	You	can
place	the	back	of	the	hands	on	the	floor	as	far	as	possible	rearwards	(See	below).
You	can	also	interlace	your	fingers	behind	the	back	and	lift	the	arms	as	high	as
possible.
Yoga’s	Parsvottanasana
Classic	Front	Bends
Yoga’s	iconic	Uttanasana,	concentrating	on	the	hamstrings,	not	the	lower	leg.
Key	Points:
Legs	totally	straight
Catch	your	ankles	and	pull	in
Elongate	spine	as	you	bend	down
Concentrate	on	hamstrings
Breathe	while	stretching
Yoga’s	Uttanasana
Here	are	the	drills	recommended	to	gradually	achieve	Uttanasana:
	
1.	Strive	to
touch	the	floor	with	your	fingers	(then	hands)	while	keeping	the	legs	and	back
straight
	
2.	Place	your	hands	on	the	floor,	with	knees	bent.	Gradually	straighten	your	legs
while	keeping	the	palms	of	the	hands	on	the	floor.
3.	Execute	the	pose	with	the	hands	on	the	floor
	
Open	Legs	Front	Bends
Yoga’s	Prasarita	Padottanasana.	Bending	forward	with	wide-open	legs.
Key	Points:
Legs	straight
Concentrate	on	the	hamstrings
Elongate	the	spine	and	strive	to	reach	the	floor	with	the	top	of	your	head
Legs	 wide	 open,	 bend	 forward	 in	 between	 and	 pull	 yourself	 down
	
Front	Splits
The	Front	Splits	are	an	iconic	difficult	pose	that	can	serve	as	a	goal	to	strive	to
reach.	The	Yoga	version	is	called	Hanumanasana.	Its	importance	for	high
kicking	is	obvious,	less	so	its	importance	to	fast	kicking.	The	pose	stretches
much	more	than	the	hamstrings,	and	it	is	important	to	concentrate	on	the
hamstrings	of	the	front	leg	for	progress	in	the	drill.	The	front	splits	also	stretch,
among	others,	the	adductors	and	the	quadriceps	of	the	rear	leg;	they	are	a	very
complete	exercise.
The	position	to	achieve	is	illustrated	at	right	top.	Proceed	very	gradually	and
carefully,	using	your	hands	on	the	floor	to	control	the	stretch:	This	is	a	difficult
and	dangerous	exercise.
Once	you	can	routinely	take	the	position	easily,	it	is	time	for	more	challenge.
Right	center	shows	how	you	should	bend	forward	and	aim	your	chin	towards
your	extended	knee	for	more	hamstring	stretch.	Right	bottom	shows	the	use	of	a
cushion	to	elevate	the	front	leg	a	bit	more,	for	more	hamstring	stretch.	Proceed
carefully.
The	Front	Splits:	Yoga’s	Hanumanasana
More	challenging	Front	Splits
Use	your	hands	to	control	your	careful	descent	into	the	spilts
	
Assisted	Standing	Splits
This	is	a	classic	Martial	Arts	stretch,	commonly	practiced	in	many	schools.	This
is	not	fully	a	passive	stretch,	but	more	of	an	assisted	partially	active	stretch:	You
do	some	of	the	stretching	yourself,	though	with	the	help	of	an	experienced
partner.	There	are	two	ways	to	execute	the	drill	and	you	should	work	out	both.
Upward	Assisted	Standing	Splits
With	one	foot	on	your	partner’s	shoulder,	or	in	the	crook	of	his	arm	if	you	are
stiffer,	you	let	him	retreat	slowly	while	your	other	foot	stands	in	place.	Bend
over	your	straightened	leg,	keeping	hold	of	your	partner	at	all	times.	All
stretching	principles	apply:	Take	the	position	slowly	and	gradually,	then	hold	it
for	20	seconds.	Release	slowly.
Key	Points:
Both	legs	perfectly	straight
The	elevated	leg	is	turned	perfectly	straight,	knee	pointing	upwards,	for
hamstring	work
Hold	your	partner	at	all	times
The	classic	Upward	Assisted	Standing	Splits
Downward	Assisted	Standing	Splits
In	this	other	classic	Martial	Arts	stretch,	you	will	bend	over	the	standing	leg
while	your	elevated	foot	stays	on	your	partner’s	shoulder.	As	he	slowly	retreats,
you	pivot	on	your	standing	leg	to	position	the	knee	upwards,	and	bend	over.
Carefully.
Key	Points:
Both	legs	straight
Make	sure	standing	leg’s	knee	points	upwards
Use	hand	on	the	floor	for	confidence	building	and	safety.
The	downward	version	of	the	Assisted	Standing	Splits.	Use	experienced	partner	only
	
Heron’s	Pose
Heron’s	pose	(	Krounchasana	)	is	a	classic	Yoga	pose	that	also	works	on	balance,
but	we	shall	concentrate	here	on	the	hamstring	stretching	emphasis.	The	fact	that
the	leg	is	stretched	in	a	sitting	position	works	the	muscles	slightly	differently.
Sitting	on	one	knee,	with	the	other	leg	extended,	you	pull	up	the	extended	leg
towards	your	nose.	See	below	right	and	work	with	the	proper	methodology.
Key	points:
Do	not	concentrate	on	the	balance	side	of	the	drill;	you	can	keep	one	hand
on	the	floor
Bring	the	knee	to	the	chin,	not	the	head	to	the	leg
Yoga’s	Krounchasana
If	you	have	difficulty	sitting	on	your	knee	for	reasons	of	flexibility	or	balance,
you	can	start	the	stretch	while	sitting	with	one	leg	bent,	as	shown	below.
The	preparatory	version	of	the	Heron	pose

Chapter	11:	Adductors	Training
The	connection	between	adductor	flexibility	and	high	kicks	is	obvious.	There
will	be	no	high	kicking,	and	especially	no	fast	high	kicking,	without	adductor
flexibility.	Side	Kicks,	roundhouse	Kicks	and	Hook	Kicks	will	gain	in	speed
with	more	flexibility.	But	results	will	come	only	after	sustained	methodical
training.
Cobbler
The	well-known	“Cobbler	Pose”,	illustrated	below,	is	called	in	Yoga	Bound
Angle	Pose	(Baddha	Konasana).	It	is	a	very	important	position	for	an	area
difficult	to	stretch.	Use	your	elbows	to	press	down	the	knees.	The	trainee	is
encouraged	to	sit	in	this	position,	with	no	extra	effort,	when	he	has	idle	time;	just
sit.	When	practicing,	the	same	efforts	and	methodology	as	before	are	of	course,
warranted.
Yoga’s	Baddha	Konasana	–	Cobbler’s	pose
The	stiffer	trainee	can	start	gradually	with	pillows	under	his	knees	for	gradual
introduction	to	the	stretch.
Cushions	will	help	get	gradually	into	the	pose
	
Both	beginner	and	advanced	artist	will	benefit	from	a	partner’s	assistance.
The	passive	assisted	version	of	the	stretch
The	more	flexible	artist	will	also	drill	the	more	advanced	versions	of	the	posture:
leaning	in	front	and	lying	down.	The	“Lying	Cobbler	Pose”	(Supta	Baddha
Konasana)	works	the	stretch	in	a	different	way	and	is	recommended	as	a	separate
drill,	both	in	its	active,	passive	and	passive	assisted	version.
If	flexible	enough,	execute	the	stretch	while	bending	forward
	
Yoga’s	 Supta	 Baddha	 Konasana;	 execute	 normally	 and	 passive	 assisted
	
Lying	Wide	Stretch
This	drill	is	a	“light”	version	of	Yoga’s	Supta	Konasana.	Lying	on	your	back,
you	lift	both	legs	straight	and	open	them	as	wide	as	possible.	You	then	catch
your	feet,	preferably	the	heels,	and	proceed	to	pull	both	straightened	legs	apart
and	towards	the	floor.	It	is	important	to	execute	the	drill	with	straight	legs;	if	you
are	stiff,	do	use	bands	to	catch	your	feet	as	illustrated	below	right.
Key	Points:
Both	legs	straight
The	back	and	head	stay	straight	on	the	floor.	Do	not	try	to	reach	out.
Pull	the	feet	towards	the	floor
Yoga’s	 Reclining	 Angle	 Pose.	 Proceed	 gradually,	 with	 bands	 if	 needed
	
Keep	your	back	on	the	floor;	do	not	go	into	“Plough	Pose”	and	concentrate	on	your	adductors
	
Sitting	Wide	Stretches
Sitting	Wide	One-Leg	Side	Stretch
This	is	Yoga’s	Parivrtta	Upavistha	Konasana,	a	very	important	overall	stretch.
You	sit	with	your	legs	opened	as	wide	as	possible.	Always	try	to	go	a	bit	more
forward	with	your	sit	bones	in	order	to	start	from	the	widest	stretch	possible.
Bend	sideways,	trying	to	reach	your	toes	with	the	opposite	hand	and	from	above
your	head.	Proceed	gradually	and	carefully,	and,	in	the	end,	you	should	be	able
to	assume	the	pose	illustrated	at	bottom.
Key	Points:
Legs	straight	and	spread	as	wide	as	possible
Bend	sideways	only.	Resist	twisting	the	body.
Try	to	catch	the	toes	with	both	hands	while	staying	fully	sideways
Parivrtta	Upavistha	Konasana,	Yoga’s	Revolved	Seated	Angle	Pose.	Proceed	gradually
	
Sitting	Wide	One-Leg	Front	Stretch
Yoga’s	Parsva	Upavistha	Konasana	is	easier	than	the	previous	posture,	but	no
less	important.	It	is	again	of	primary	importance	to	assume	the	widest	possible
sitting	stance.	Stretch	open	and	then	bend	straight	over	one	of	your	legs,	aiming
for	the	knee	with	your	chin.	Both	legs	as	straight	as	possible!	Switch	legs.
Key	Points:
Legs	straight	and	spread	as	wide	as	possible.
Elongate	the	spine	when	bending
Concentrate	on	the	adductors	and	relax
Yoga’s	Side	Seated	Angle	Pose.	Open	legs	as	wide	as	possible…and	a	bit	more
	
Elongate	the	spine	while	bending	down	into	position
	
Sitting	Wide	Middle	Stretch
Yoga’s	Upavistha	Konasana,	the	all-important	“Seated	Angle	Pose”.	This
posture	is	extremely	important	for	high	kicking	and	requires	a	lot	of	training.	Sit
with	your	straight	legs	stretched	as	wide	as	possible.	Use	your	hands	to	pull	the
sit	bones	even	more	forward.	Then	proceed	gradually	as	illustrated.	Bend
forward	slowly	and	spread	your	hands	forward	to	your	maximum.	Relax	and
stretch	as	per	our	methodology.	You	should	finally	be	able	to	lie	with	your	hands
spread	forward	and	your	sternum	on	the	floor.	When	you	are	comfortable	with
this	position,	you	can	then	try	to	spread	yourself	even	more	on	the	floor	and
catch	your	feet	with	your	hands.
Key	Points:
Legs	straight	and	spread	as	wide	as	possible
Elongate	the	spine	during	the	stretch
At	your	maximum,	lift	the	chin
Yoga’s	Upavistha	Konasana.Proceed	gradually	as	described
	
In	order	to	make	progress	with	this	very	important	exercise,	it	is	recommended
to	get	help	from	a	partner.	There	are	two	Passive	Assisted	versions	of	the	stretch
very	much	in	use	in	Martial	Arts	training	halls:	Either	your	partner	pushes	your
lower	back	down	and	forward	(below	top;	or	he	pulls	you	forward	by	your	hands
while	spreading	your	legs	with	his	(below	bottom).
A	partner	will	help	you	progress	in	the	stretch
	
Lying	One-Legged	Stretch
Lying	on	your	back,	you	move	one	straight	leg	to	the	side,	slowly	and	keeping	in
contact	with	the	floor.	Catch	your	heel	with	your	hand	and	pull	the	leg	up
towards	you	while	keeping	it	on	the	floor.	The	other	leg	stays	straight	and	in
place.	The	Rest	of	the	body	stays	straight	and	on	the	floor.	Switch	sides.
Key	Points:
Legs	straight.
The	back,	the	head	and	the	legs	stay	in	contact	with	the	floor
	
Try	to	keep	the
body	straight	and	immobile
Do	not	stretch	in	a	way	that	will	lift	the	leg	from	the	floor
	
Concentrate	on	the
adductors.
The	Lying	one-legged	stretch:	The	whole	back	of	the	body	stays	in	contact	with	the	floor	at	all	times
	
Frog
This	is	a	simple	and	relatively	easy	drill:	Practice	it	often	and	strive	for
maximum	stretch.	With	the	feet	pointing	outwards,	lower	your	sit	bones	as	much
as	possible	and	place	your	arms	between	your	open	knees.	In	this	position,	you
must	already	feel	the	adductors’	stretch.	You	then	use	your	elbows	to	open	your
knees	even	wider.	Go	for	the	maximum.	This	drill	lends	itself	easily	to	slacking.
Key	Points:
The	stretch	comes	from	the	combination	of	the	lowering	of	the	bottom	and	the
opening	of	the	knees.	Perform	both	consciously	at	the	maximum
	
Concentrate	on
the	adductors
Try	to	keep	the	upper	body	straight
Push	the	knees	open	and	lower	yourself	as	much	as	possible
	

Push	your	knees	open	with	your	elbows	while	sitting	as	low	as	possible
	
Side	Splits
The	iconic	Side	Splits	are	the	natural	continuation	of	the	Sitting	Wide	Stretches.
Keep	moving	the	hips	forward	with	feet	stuck	to	the	ground.	Gradually!	Be
extremely	careful	with	this	position.	The	best	drills	to	progress	towards	the	Side
Splits	are	the	Sitting	Wide	Stretches	and	the	Assisted	Side	Kick	Stretch
presented	later	on.
Key	Points:
Straight	legs
Feet	flexed
Body	straight
Side	Splits
Assisted	Roundhouse	Chamber
The	“Assisted	Roundhouse	Chamber”	is	of	course	highly	recommended	for	a
high	or	fast	roundhouse,	but	not	only.	It	is	the	drill	we	have	already	seen	in
Dynamic	Stretching,	but	executed	as	per	our	static	(passive)	methodology.	It	is
best	to	execute	the	drill	in	full	guard	and	fighting	chamber	position.	If	you	are
stiff	or	have	balance	difficulties,	you	should	lean	on	a	wall,	but	try	to	keep	as
erect	as	your	flexibility	allows.
Key	Points:
Keep	your	upper	body	straight;	do	not	lean.
Concentrate	on	the	adductors
Standing	leg	must	be	straight
Your	partner	lifts	the	chambered	knee.	Lean	on	a	wall	if	necessary
	
Assisted	Roundhouse	Chamber	Stretch
Assisted	Side	Kick
This	is	basically	an	assisted	standing	“Side	Splits”,	but	with	emphasis	on	the
specific	kicking	posture.	An	important	exercise	to	be	drilled	carefully	with	an
experienced	partner!
Start	gradually	with	a	simple	lifting	of	the	leg	while	you	lean	on	a	wall	for	safety
and	balance	(1).	You	can	later	place	your	foot	on	his	shoulder	and	let	go	of	the
wall	(2).	The	position	you	should	strive	for	is	illustrated	by	Figure	3.
Key	Points:
Both	legs	straight
Concentrate	on	the	side	kick	position;	body,	hips	and	legs	in	line
Make	sure	your	partner	will	release	the	stretch	as	soon	as	you	signal	him
Proceed	gradually	towards	standing	side	splits
	

Foot	on	shoulder	in	Side	Kick	Position

Chapter	12:	Quadriceps
Quad	flexibility	is	important	for	overall	speed,	for	back	kicks	and	all	sorts	of
spin-back	kicks.	It	is	also	a	very	busy	muscle	in	all	kicking	maneuvers	and
stretching	will	promote	speed	and	injury	resistance.
Back	Kick
Standing	Quad	Stretch
This	is	a	simple,	classic,	but	often	neglected	stretch.	Used	as	a	cool-down	light
stretch,	it	should	be	worked	upon	seriously	and	methodically	by	the	serious
artist.	Quads	are	often	neglected	in	stretching	routines,	undeservedly.
The	Standing	Quad	Stretch	is	the	simple	pulling	of	the	heel	towards	the	buttock
(1).	The	feel	of	the	quad	stretch	is	very	clear,	and	it	is	important	to	go	as	far	as
possible	each	time:	it	is	not	a	relaxing	exercise	but	a	full	stretch	by	itself.	If	you
encounter	some	difficulties	in	executing	the	stretch,	there	are	two	preparatory
versions	to	drill,	illustrated	in	Figures	2	and	3:	using	a	wall	for	balance	and
executing	the	drill	lying	on	the	floor.
Key	Points:
Concentrate	on	the	quadriceps,	feel	the	stretch
Treat	it	as	a	challenging	stretch	and	go	as	far	as	possible,	as	per	our
stretching	methodology.
Keep	the	thigh	vertical	and	in	contact	with	the	standing	thigh.
Keep	the	body	straight,	no	leaning.
The	Standing	Quad	Stretch	and	its	preparatory	versions
Once	you	perform	the	stretch	routinely	and	easily	to	its	maximum,	there	are
three	variations	you	can	execute	from	time	to	time:
	
a.	Pulling	the	opposite	foot,
i.e.
	the	left	foot	with	the	right	hand	and	vice-versa.	It	stretches	the	quadriceps	a
bit	differently.
b.	Using	a	wall	to	push	the	heel	towards	the	buttock	in	order	to	go	further.	You
use	your	body	weight	to	stretch	further.
c.	Using	a	table,	a	high	stool,	or	the	saddle	of	a	stationary	bike	to	push	the	foot
toward	the	buttock.	The	principle	is	the	same	as	b)	,	but	you	lean	down	as	well
as	back	with	your	body	weight.
Once	you	have	mastered	the	basic	stretch,	you	should	move	the	thigh	around,	as
in	photos	below,	for	joint	flexibility	and	to	look	for	the	position	you	should	most
stretch	in:	“where	you	feel	the	stretch	more!”.	For	example,	you	can	make	the
stretch	more	challenging	by	lifting	the	thigh	back.
Kneeling	Quad	Stretch
From	a	one-knee	stance,	you	grab	your	rear	ankle	with	the	same-side	hand	and
pull	your	heel	towards	your	buttock.	You	lean	forward	and	deepen	the	lunge	for
a	longer	stretch.	If	the	floor	is	hard	or	your	knee	is	sensitive,	place	a	towel	or	a
cushion	under	the	knee.
Key	Points:
The	lunge,	
i.e.
	the	opening	between	the	legs,	must	be	as	deep	as	possible.
Concentrate	on	the	quad	being	stretched.
Lean	forward	and	lower	your	hips
Stretch	the	quad	in	deep	lunge
Use	a	towel	or	cushion	to	prevent	knee	stress
Reclining	Hero	Pose
The	“Reclining	Hero	Pose”	(	Supta	Virasana	)	has	been	mentioned	in	the	lower
leg	stretching	section	(Chapter	9).	It	is	also	an	extremely	effective,	but	difficult,
quad	stretch.	It	is	highly	recommended	but	must	be	approached	very	gradually
because	it	strains	the	knees;	the	sit	bones	lie	between	the	knees.	Once	it	has	been
mastered,	it	is	a	great	posture,	increasing	flexibility	in	the	whole	of	the	front	leg.
Caution:	proceed	extremely	carefully	and	gradually	from	the	simple	“sitting	on
your	knees-pose.	The	progression,	illustrated	below,	should	be:	one-leg	stretch
reclining	on	elbows,	both-legs	stretch	reclining	on	elbows,	and	the	final	both-
legs	back-on-the-floor	posture.
Key	Points:
Concentrate	on	the	quadriceps
Strive	to	place	the	whole	back	in	contact	with	the	floor.
Getting	gradually	to	Supta	Virasana
Chapter	13:	Glutei	and	Hip	Belt
The	buttocks	and	hip	joints	are	obviously	a	part	of	fast	and	good	kicking.	Good
posture	and	technical	delivery	will	all	be	influenced	by	their	flexibility.	These
muscles’	tonus	will	also	be	critical	in	one’s	ability	to	position	oneself	for	a
decisive	kick.
A	downward	Back	Kick,	and	a	good	reason	for	hip	belt	flexibility
	
Deep	Step
The	“Deep	Step”	or	“Low	Lunge”	stretch	is	very	important	and	must	be	drilled
as	a	full-fledged	stretch,	not	as	a	relaxing	or	cool-down	exercise.	Called
Anjaneyasana	in	Yoga,	it	must	be	taken	to	the	limit	each	time,	and	then	a	bit
more.
You	simply	take	a	deep	lunge	position	with	one	leg	extended	straight	behind
you.	Push	the	hips	forward	and	feel	the	hip	joint	and	the	quadriceps	being
stretched.	In	Yoga,	you	generally	extend	the	hands	over	your	head,	pointing	at
the	sky.	In	our	case,	it	is	enough	to	let	the	arms	dangle	at	the	side;	just	make	sure
your	body	is	straight	and	vertical	and	that	you	do	not	use	the	hands	to	resist	the
stretch.	Switch	legs.
Key	Points:
Extend	the	leg	back	as	far	as	possible
Bend	the	front	leg	by	pushing	the	hips	forward
Keep	the	upper	body	straight	and	vertical,	or	even	bending	slightly
backwards
Concentrate	on	the	hip	joint
Anjaneyasana,	push	the	hips	forward
When	proficient,	try	to	curve	the	back	and	elongate	the	spine	for	a	more	challenging	stretch
	
Splits
We	have	already	encountered	the	(Front)	Splits.	The	splits	are	a	very	complete
stretching	exercise,	putting	in	play	many	of	the	muscles	group.	There	are	two
ways	to	further	stretch	the	hip	joints	presented	in	here.	Use	a	pillow	or	folded
towel	to	increase	the	height	of	the	rear	or	the	front	leg.	Of	course,	to	do	so,	you
need	to	master	the	classic	Front	Splits	first.	Proceed	carefully	and	gradually.	Do
not	forget	to	practice	both	sides	by	switching	the	leg	in	front.
The	“enhanced”	Front	Splits
Lying	Knee	Twist
This	is	a	well-known	cooling	down	pose	to	be	drilled	as	a	full-fledged	stretch.
Lying	on	your	back	with	one	arm	extended	sideways,	you	push	the	knee	of	the
extended	hand	side	towards	the	ground,	while	keeping	your	back,	extended	arm
and	extended	straight	leg	on	the	ground.	It	is	easy	to	understand	from	the
illustration	below.
Key	Points:
The	shoulders	and	back	stay	straight	and	in	contact	with	the	floor
Keep	the	extended	hand	on	the	floor	and	perpendicular	to	the	body.
Use	the	other	hand	to	push	the	knee	towards	the	floor.
Look	towards	your	extended	hand
Rotate	the	hips,	not	the	trunk!
Lying	Leg	Twist
This	is	Yoga’s	Eka	Pada	Jathara	Parivarttanasana,	also	a	pose	often	used	during
cool	down	of	Martial	Arts	classes.	It	is	an	important	stretch	to	drill	and	bring	to
the	limits	of	flexibility.
Lying	on	your	back	in	a	cross-like	position,	you	lift	one	straightened	leg	and	let
it	fall	towards	the	extended	opposite	hand.	Proceed	slowly	and	carefully	and
keep	your	shoulders	and	back	on	the	floor.	Maintain	the	position	while	striving
to	have	as	much	back	in	floor	contact	as	possible.	Switch	sides.
Key	Points:
All	body	parts	are	perpendicular	to	one	another
Shoulders,	extended	hands	and	back	in	contact	with	the	floor	at	all	times
Both	legs	fully	straight
Look	to	the	opposite	side	of	the	foot
Strive	to	place	the	foot	in	the	palm	of	the	hand
Eka	Pada	Jathara	Parivarttanasana,	Yoga’s	One	Leg	Revolved	Belly	Pose
	
Waist	Twist
Yoga’s	Eka	Pada	Parivrtta	Upavisthasana.	Sitting	with	one	leg	straight	and	the
other	bent	and	crossed	over	the	other,	you	twist	your	upper	body	to	the	side	of
the	bent	leg.	Use	your	elbow	to	maintain	and	go	further	in	the	pose.	The
illustration	below	makes	the	pose	clear.
Key	Points:
Keep	the	upper	body	straight	and	vertical.
Your	sit	bones	and	extended	leg	stay	on	the	floor	at	all	times
Eka	Pada	Parivrtta	Upavisthasana,	Yoga’s	One	Leg	Revolving	Seated	Pose
	
Side	Chamber	Assisted	Stretch
This	is	a	classic	of	martial	arts	training	halls.	Just	make	sure	you	practice	the
stretch	with	the	right	methodology,	as	a	full-fledged	stretch.	Go	a	bit	further	each
time	and	concentrate	on	the	muscles	stretched.	This	is,	of	course,	a	passive-
assisted	stretch.
As	shown,	lift	your	leg	in	Side	Kick	chamber	with	your	back	to	a	wall.	Your
partner	will	grab	your	foot	to	push	your	knee	both	up	and	towards	your	face,
stretching	a	whole	set	of	muscles	and	joints.	Have	him	proceed	gradually	and
carefully.	Switch	legs.
Side	Kick	chamber-Passive	assisted	stretch
Bent	Leg	Pull
This	is	a	very	simple	and	natural	exercise	that	you	can	execute	sitting	or	lying
down.	You	simply	pull	your	foot	towards	your	upper	chest	or	face,	like	you
probably	used	to	do	as	a	small	child.	The	very	flexible	can	aim	to	place	the	foot
behind	the	neck.	Use	both	hands	to	pull	the	leg	in	and	make	sure	your	back	is
straight.	Figures	1	and	2	illustrate	respectively	the	sitting	and	the	lying	version	of
the	stretch.
Key	Points:
The	back	is	straight	at	all	times,	whether	sitting	or	lying
Do	not	go	towards	the	foot	with	the	body;	pull	the	foot	in	without	moving
the	body
If	possible,	lift	the	leg	towards	the	face
Pull	the	foot	towards	the	face	with	a	straight	back.	Sitting	up	or	lying	down.
Lying	Bent	Leg	Pull
Runner’s	Stretch
The	well-known	“Runner’s	Stretch”	is	called	in	Yoga:	Supported	Pigeon	Pose	(
Salamba	Kapotasana	).	The	full	Pigeon	Pose	(	Kapotasana	),	-in	which	the	hands
are	lifted	towards	the	sky	and	the	body	curves	back-,	is	less	relevant	to	our
purpose.
The	figure	below	shows	how	the	front	leg	is	bent,	the	rear	leg	is	extended	and
the	upper	body	is	straight	and	vertical.	The	more	flexible	you	are	or	you	become,
the	more	“open”	the	straight	leg	should	be,	up	to	90	degrees.	Support	yourself
with	your	hands	for	control	of	the	stretch.
Key	points:
Make	sure	your	buttock	lies	on	the	floor	and	does	not	“hang”	in	the	air.
The	wider	the	knee	angle,	the	more	the	inner	leg	muscles	are	stretched	(and
the	less	the	gluteus)
Yoga’s	Salamba	Kapotasana.	Sit	on	your	hips
Bend	forward	in	“Pigeon	Pose”	and	try	to	reach	as	far	as	possible”
Runner’s	stretch:	start	up	as	straight	as	possible;	then	bend	down	as	low	and	as	far	as	possible
	
This	is	an	extremely	beneficial	stretch	for	overall	flexibility	and	well-being.	To
be	practiced	often,	but	while	concentrating	on	the	buttock’s	muscles	and
adjoining	joints.
Cross	Side	Bends
Easy	but	often	neglected.	It	should	be	treated	as	a	full-fledged	stretch	and	one
should	strive	to	go	lower	and	lower	each	time.	You	simply	cross	your
straightened	legs	in	a	standing	position	and	bend	to	your	side.	You	are	aiming
the	hands	to	the	floor	on	the	side	of	the	blade	of	the	front	foot.	Keep	your	legs
straight.	Just	for	balance,	as	it	is	not	a	hip	belt	stretch,	bend	then	on	the	other
side	for	relaxing	the	muscles.	Then	switch	legs	and	cross	them	with	the	other	leg
in	front.
You	can	progress	towards	the	stretch,	or	warm	up,	by	doing	the	bend	with	legs
uncrossed	first.	Then	execute	the	stretch	by	bending	on	the	side	of	the	crossing
front	leg.	Bend	on	the	other	side	to	relax.
Bend	sideways	with	legs	crossed.	Feel	the	stretch
Warm	up	uncrossed,	Stretch,	Bend	the	other	way	for	release

Chapter	14:	Abdominals
The	whole	body	is	held	together	by	the	abdominal	belt.	It	is,	needless	to	tell	the
experienced	artist,	the	key	role	played	by	the	“tanden”	of	Karate	or	“tan	tien”	of
Kung	Fu.	Successful	kicking	involves	the	whole	body	and	its	maximum	use.
This	will	only	be	possible	with	a	strong	and	flexible	abdominal	belt.	Strong
abdominal	muscles-building	must	be	accompanied	by	flexibility	training,	just
like	any	other	muscle.
Cobra	Stretch
Yoga’s	iconic	Bhujangasana,	Cobra’s	Pose	is	a	great	stretch	for	the	abdominals
and	the	lower	spine.	Execute	carefully.
Key	Points:
Keep	and	push	the	hips	on	the	floor;	arch	the	back	from	the	belt	up.
Push	on	the	hands	carefully	and	gradually.
Look	up	at	the	ceiling
Cobra’s	pose.	Keep	the	hips	on	the	floor
Cobra’s	Pose:	Look	at	the	ceiling	but	keep	belt	knot	on	the	floor
	

In	order	to	progress,	whether	you	are	stiff	or	flexible,	you	can	execute	the
passive-assisted	version	of	the	stretch,	as	illustrated	below.	The	key	points	stay
the	same.
The	assisted	version	of	Bhujangasana
There	is	an	assisted	version	of	the	“inverted”	pose	that	is	noteworthy.	Once	you
are	proficient	in	the	Cobra	Pose,	it	is	beneficial	to	practice	very	carefully.	See
below	and	execute	with	an	experienced	partner	only!
The	inverted	Cobra	Stretch	–	assisted.	Drill	with	extreme	caution.
Camel	Stretch
This	is	also	a	classic	Yoga	Pose	to	be	drilled	seriously:	Ustrasana,	the	Camel’s
Pose.	On	your	knees,	you	simply	bend	back	and	place	your	hands	on	your	heels
or	the	plant	of	your	feet.	Work	according	to	our	stretching	methodology.
Key	Points:
Place	the	hands	on	your	feet,	then	start	pushing	the	hips	forward	and	the
chest	up
Try	to	look	back
Proceed	gradually
Camel’s	pose	to	stretch	the	abdominals	and	the	spine
	
If	you	are	not	flexible	enough,	sit	on	your	toes	and	try	gradually	to	reach	the
heels,	as	illustrated	in	Photo	1.	Then	gradually	try	for	the	soles	of	the
straightened	feet	(Photo	2).
Proceed	gradually	from	a	heels-up	position

Balance	Stretch
Yoga’s	Bow	Pose,	Dhanurasana,	is	a	great	stretch	for	the	shoulders,	the	spine	and
the	abs.	Lying	prone	on	the	floor,	you	catch	your	ankles	with	your	hands	and	pull
yourself	up.	You	look	forward	while	using	your	legs	and	arms	to	arch	your	back
as	far	as	possible.
Key	Points:
Concentrate	on	the	abdominal	stretch
Open	the	legs,	not	the	knees,	for	a	deeper	stretch
Lift	the	head	for	a	deep	abs	stretch
Yoga’s	 Dhanurasana,	 the	 Bow.	 Pull	 yourself	 up	 to	 your	 maximum
	
The	Bow;	pull	and	look	up
Bridge	Stretch
This	is	a	well-known	exercise,	especially	by	wrestlers	and	gymnasts,	but	it	is
also	a	basic	Yoga	posture	named:	Sirsa	Setu	Bandhasanasana.	Remember	we
consider	it	here	as	an	abdominal	stretch	and	therefore	you	should	concentrate	on
the	maximal	arching	of	the	back.
Key	Points:
Start	with	hands	as	close	as	possible	to	the	shoulders
Start	with	feet	as	close	as	possible	to	bottom
Be	extremely	careful	with	neck	position
Use	back	muscles	to	arch,	not	only	arms	and	legs
Concentrate	on	the	abs	stretch;	arch	as	much	as	possible,	including	the	neck
Figure	1	shows	how	you	lift	yourself	from	prone	position	on	your	hands	and
feet.	Arch	the	back,	and	then	place	your	head	on	the	floor	for	the	bridge	pose
(Figure	2).
Lift	the	bottom	up	and	arch	your	back	to	stretch	the	abs	in	Yoga’s	Sirsa	Setu	Bandhasanasana
	
The	challenging	Inverted	Bow	Pose

When	proficient	and	flexible	enough,	you	can	proceed	to	the	more	challenging
“Upward	Bow	Pose”:	Yoga’s	Urdhva	Dhanurasana.	From	the	Bridge	Pose,	you
strive	to	straighten	the	arms	and	legs	for	an	extended	arching	of	the	back	and
more	frontal	stretch.	Proceed	carefully,	with	assistance,	and	make	sure	you	do
not	fall	on	the	head	when	releasing.
Chapter	15:	Lower	Back	and	Laterals
The	lower	back	and	laterals	are	part	of	the	abdominal	belt	mentioned	above.
Everything	said	in	the	introduction	stays	true.	On	top	of	that,	the	lower	back	and
laterals	are	key	engines	in	the	execution	of	circular	and	spinning	kicks.	The
exercises	presented	below,	sometimes	neglected,	are	very	important	to	the
Martial	Artist.	It	is	recommended	to	introduce	at	least	two	of	these	Upper	Body
Stretches	into	your	Flexiometric	Routine.
Special	Kicks	are	especially	demanding	for	the	abdominal	belt,	the	lower	back	and	the	laterals
	
Standing	Bends
We	have	already	encountered	the	standing	bends	in	Chapter	10,	as	a	hamstring
stretch.	The	drill	is	the	same,	but	you	need	to	maximize	the	spine	elongation	and
concentrate	on	the	lower	back.	A	preparatory	exercise,	in	order	to	learn	to
differentiate	between	the	hamstring	and	the	lower	back	emphasis,	is	presented
below:	Bend	over	your	straight	legs	until	your	trunk	is	parallel	to	the	ground;
elongate	your	spine.
Key	Points:
As	mentioned,	concentrate	on	the	lower	back	stretch
Elongate	the	spine	and	try	to	reach	as	low	as	possible	with	the	chin	on	the
legs
Go	for	reach,	not	bend
Bend	to	90	degrees	with	legs	straight.	Stretch	the	spine
	
The	progression	to	the	classic	Front	Bend

Once	step	1	is	going	well,	you	should	proceed	with	the	regular	front	bends.
Plough
This	is	again	a	classic	Yoga	pose,	Halasana,	well-known	as	the	ultimate	spine
stretch.	Lying	on	your	back,	you	simply	lift	your	straightened	legs	over	your
head	until	the	feet	touch	the	floor.	This	is	also	a	neck	stretch	and	you	have	to
proceed	very	carefully	with	this	area.
Key	Points:
Concentrate	on	the	spine	and	lower	back
Do	not	try	to	go	further	back	with	the	feet,	as	it	sways	the	stretch	towards
the	neck
The	Plough.	Yoga’s	Halasana
The	position	is	not	easy	and	needs	to	be	approached	gradually.	It	also	restrains
somewhat	the	ability	to	breathe,	and,	as	such,	is	a	great	drill	for	wrestlers	and
grapplers.	There	are	several	ways	to	approach	the	final	pose:
	
a.	Execute	with
open	legs.	This	is	Yoga’s	Supta	Konasana	or	the	Reclining	Angle	Pose,	although
it	is	usually	practiced	with	the	widest	possible	leg	opening	which	is	not	our
purpose	here.	Here,	we	shall	try	to	make	it	an	easier	“Plough”	pose,	and	a	pose
that	does	not	restrict	breathing	as	much.	Once	you	have	mastered	it,	you	should
gradually	close	the	legs.
b.	Another	way	to	ease	in	into	the	pose	is	to	execute	it	with	one	leg;	easier	to
perform	and	easier	to	breathe.	When	you	become	proficient,	use	it	to	ease	into
the	final	“two-legs”	pose.
c.	You	can	also	use	a	prop	for	the	gradual	stretching	of	the	spine:	Use	a	chair
(eventually	with	a	towel	or	a	cushion)	to	support	your	feet	above	the	ground.
When	you	become	proficient,	gradually	lower	the	height	of	support	with	other
props	until	the	feet	reach	the	ground	comfortably.
This	is	an	important	drill	and	you	should	do	everything	possible	to	become	able
to	hold	the	pose.	Once	you	do	and	become	more	proficient,	there	are	two
variations	of	the	pose	that	will	stretch	your	spine	even	more.
Supta	Paschimottasana,	or	“Lying	Down	Westward	Pose”.	From	the	Plough
Pose,	you	lower	your	sit	bones	towards	the	floor	and	grab	your	feet	to	pull	your
knees	towards	your	head.	The	legs	are	straight,	and	it	is	as	if	you	fold	yourself
straight	in	two.	This	is	stretching	the	lower	back	even	more.	Execute	as	per	our
agreed	methodology.
Karnapidasana,	or	“Pressure	on	the	ears-Pose”.	From	the	Plough	Pose,	you	bend
your	legs	and	lower	the	opened	knees	on	the	floor	as	close	as	possible	to	the
ears.	Catch	the	back	of	the	knees	with	your	arms	and	“round”	yourself	as	much
as	possible.	Proceed	carefully,	especially	with	the	neck	joint.
Sitting	Side	Bends
This	is	basically	the	same	pose	as	the	“Sitting	Wide	One-leg	Side	Stretch”
presented	for	adductors	work.	This	time	though,	the	emphasis	is	on	the	laterals
and	the	legs	need	not	be	stretched	open	at	their	maximum.	You	should	take	the
pose,	Yoga’s	Parivrtta	Upavistha	Konasana,	with	your	legs	opened	naturally	at
their	un-stretched	maximum.	You	then	lean	sideways	and	catch	your	toes	as
described	in	Figure	1.	Concentrate	on	your	sides	and	lower	back.
Concentrate	on	your	Lateral	Muscles
Figure	2	shows	a	preparatory	exercise	in	which	you	lean	sideways,	with	your
fingers	crossed	behind	your	head,	and	place	your	elbow	on	the	floor	behind	the
extended	knee.
An	 easier	 pose	 to	 prepare	 Parivrtta	 Upavistha	 Konasana
	
Standing	Side	Bends
This	is	a	very	simple	stretch,	to	be	drilled	seriously	and	to	its	maximum	each
time	according	to	our	proper	methodology.	This	is	said	as	it	is	a	pose	easily
looked	down	upon.	From	a	standing	position,	lift	your	hands	in	prayer	over	your
head	and	stretch	upwards	as	much	as	possible	to	elongate	your	spine.	Lean
sideways	gradually	to	your	maximum.	Then	switch	sides.
Key	Points:
Stretch	the	spine	during	the	exercise
Keep	the	upper	body	straight	in	line	(i.e.	parallel	to	the	wall	in	front	of
you);	do	not	twist
Concentrate	on	your	laterals	and	aim	at	reaching	with	your	hands	as	far	as
possible
Lean	Sideways	while	elongating	the	spine
Seated	Twist
This	is	the	“Waist	twist”	already	presented	in	Chapter	13	for	glutei	and	hip	belt
work.	This	time	you	will	try	to	concentrate	on	and	emphasize	the	lower	back	and
laterals	work,	
i.e.
	the	twist	itself.
The	pose,	below,	is	identical	to	the	Waist	Twist.
Eka	Pada	Parivrtta	Upavisthasana

As	the	twist	is	now	the	emphasis	of	the	drill,	there	is	a	preparatory	posture	that
works	the	laterals	without	being	too	difficult	on	the	glutei,	hip	belt	and	leg
muscles:	Yoga’s	Marichyasana	III.	You	simply	execute	the	pose	without	placing
the	foot	of	your	bent	leg	over	the	thigh	of	the	straight	leg.	Bend	the	leg	up	and
twist	as	much	as	you	can;	concentrate	on	the	twist.
Preparatory	Pose	to	the	Seated	twist
The	easier	Marichyasana	III
On	the	other	hand,	a	more	challenging	pose	would	be	Ardha	Matsyendrasana
(Half	Lord	of	the	Fishes	Pose)	in	which	you	also	bend	the	leg	on	which	you	are
sitting.
The	more	challenging	Ardha	Matsyendrasana

Extended	Triangle
This	is	an	iconic	Yoga	posture	in	which	you	will	certainly	feel	your	laterals
stretching,	especially	at	the	beginning.	You	will	also	feel	your	hip	belt	and	legs,
as	it	is	a	very	complete	stretch,	but	try	to	concentrate	on	the	waist.	You	start
Utthita	Trikonasana,	the	Extended	Triangle	Pose,	from	a	wide	open	stance,	one
foot	pointing	forward	and	the	other,	on	the	same	line,	pointing	obliquely	45
degrees.	Lean	sideways	towards	the	front	foot	(pointing	forward)	and	place	the
hand	on	the	floor,	near	and	behind	the	foot.	Keep	your	body	in	line—no	twisting
—and	extend	the	other	arm	in-line	towards	the	ceiling.	Keep	your	legs	straight.
If	you	have	difficulty	taking	the	posture,	place	your	down	hand	on	the	front	leg,
as	low	as	possible,	but	at	the	height	that	allows	you	to	take	the	pose	and	work	on
the	side	bend.
The	pose	can	be	executed	with	the	hand	on	the	floor	in	front	or	behind	the	leg,
according	to	your	progress.
Key	Points:
Legs	straight
No	twisting;	lean	with	body	in	line
Stretch	shoulders	and	spine
Yoga’s	classic	Utthita	Trikonasana
Utthita	Trikonasana	with	hand	in	front	or	behind	the	extended	leg.	In	all	cases,	look	up	at	your	hand
	

Chapter	16	Upper	Body
Of	course,	kicking	involves	the	whole	body.	In	order	to	have	a	complete	work-
out,	and	for	general	benefit,	it	is	recommended	to	include	some	upper	body
flexibility	training.	A	few	exercises	are	suggested.	I	have	often	seen	experienced
Martial	Artists	in	Yoga	or	Flexibility	practice	who	were	extremely	flexible	in
their	lower	body,	but	who	had	extremely	tight	shoulders.
Upper	Body	Fitness	is	important	to	many	kicks
	
Pectoral	Doorframe	Stretch
This	stretches	the	pectorals	and	the	shoulders.	It	can	be	executed	in	a	doorframe,
hence	the	name,	or	on	a	wall	corner.	Place	the	arm	at	shoulder	height	first,	with
the	forearm	bent	at	90	degrees	and	therefore	parallel	to	the	door	frame.	Push
your	upper	body	forward	to	stretch	your	pectoral	and	anterior	shoulder;	you	can
also	twist	the	body	away	if	you	keep	the	trunk	straight.	Treat	this	as	a	full	stretch
and	use	the	right	methodology	to	improve	gradually.	Switch	arms.
Once	proficient	you	can	start	vary	the	arm	height	and	the	angling	of	the	elbow
for	slightly	different	stretching	effects.
Key	Points:
Keep	the	trunk	straight
Neck	erect	and	look	forward
Pectoral	doorframe	Stretch;	push	the	torso	forward
	
Pectoral	Table	Stretch
For	this	pectorals-and-shoulders-stretch,	you	can	use	a	table	or	a	dance	bar	or
anything	at	the	right	height.	It	is	a	very	common	relaxing	stretch;	treat	it	as	a
stretch	to	progress	into.	With	straight	legs	and	the	body	bent	at	90	degrees,	place
your	hands	on	the	table	and	push	your	(straight)	torso	down.	Concentrate	on	the
stretch.
Key	Points:
Legs	and	arms	straight
Trunk	straight	and	stays	in	line
Elongate	spine
Bend	down	to	stretch	the	upper	body

Elbow	Back	Pull
This	is	a	very	simple	and	beneficial	shoulder	stretch.	With	your	arms	behind
your	back,	catch	your	elbow	with	the	other	hand	and	pull	it	in	as	much	as
possible.	Try	to	gradually	reach	a	bit	more.	Switch	arms.
Key	Points:
Keep	your	body	straight;	do	not	lean
Keep	the	stretched	elbow	down	and	relaxed
Pull	the	elbow	sideways,	not	up
Pull	the	elbow	in	your	back	and	stretch	the	shoulder
	
Wall	Shoulder	Stretch
This	is	a	classic	shoulder	stretch.	With	your	whole	front	arm	against	a	wall	and
parallel	to	the	ground,	you	twist	your	upper	body	as	much	as	possible	in	the
other	direction.	Switch	sides.
Key	Points:
Make	sure	the	whole	arm	and	shoulder	stay	in	constant	contact	with	the	wall
Open	palm,	on	the	wall.
Twist	the	upper	body	and	neck;	try	to	look	over	the	other	shoulder.
Arm	and	shoulder	on	the	wall,	stretch
Eagle	Pose	Grip
This	is	the	typical	hands	position	in	the	“Eagle”	Yoga	Pose,	Garudasana.	Like
often	in	Yoga,	the	pose	is	more	complex	and	stretches	more	muscles	groups;	in
this	case,	the	legs	are	also	intertwined	in	a	difficult	fashion.	For	our	purpose,	we
shall	only	drill	the	arm	position	illustrated	in	Figure1	and	closer	in	Figures	2	and
3.	It	may	seem	simple—cross	your	arms	and	place	your	palms	together	in	prayer
—but	many	athletes	with	well-muscled	shoulders	will	find	it	extremely	difficult.
Proceed	gradually	and	strive	for	progress;	this	is	a	very	important	exercise.
Key	Points:
Start	by	crossing	your	arms	as	far	as	possible	at	the	elbows
Strive	to	place	your	palms	fully	together	in	prayer	position;	at	the
beginning,	try	to	catch	the	thumb	of	the	upper	hands	with	the	fingers	of	the
lower	hand
Start	high;	when	proficient,	lower	the	locked	hands	for	further	stretching
Keep	upper	body	straight
The	hand	position	in	Yoga’s	Garudasana
Back	Namaste
The	name	of	this	stretch	refers	to	the	classic	praying	hands	position	of	Yoga,	the
traditional	“Namaste”	greeting.	But	this	time,	you	will	have	your	hands	take	this
position	in	your	back.	The	idea,	illustrated	in	Figures	1	and	2,	is	simple;	the
execution	can	be	challenging.	Proceed	gradually	and	do	not	neglect	this	simple
exercise	that	stretches	the	whole	arm	from	the	shoulder	down.
Key	Points:
Keep	body	straight
Shoulders	low	and	relaxed
Start	by	joining	the	fingers;	then	strive	to	get	the	palms	together	and	as	high
as	possible.
Full	and	close	view	of	the	Back	Namaste
Cow’s	Face	Grip
This,	again,	refers	to	a	Yoga	pose	named	“Cow	Face”,	Gomukhasana.	The	pose
is,	again,	more	complex	and	involves	a	difficult	cross-legged	sitting	posture.	We
shall	only	drill	the	particular	hand	grip	of	the	pose.	You	can	practice	the	stretch
standing	or	sitting	comfortably,	as	you	like,	as	long	as	you	make	sure	your	back
is	straight.	The	posture	is	a	well-known	classic	and	is	illustrated	in	Figures1	and
2.	Your	hands	grip	one	another	in	your	back,	with	one	arm	from	above	and	one
from	below.	It	is	often	very	difficult,	and	often	not	symmetrically	easy!
This	is	often	difficult	for	well-muscled	athletes,	and	it	is	recommended	to
proceed	gradually	but	methodically.	You	can	start	by	executing	the	upper	arm
stretch	only	by	pushing	the	elbow	down	with	your	other	hand	as	illustrated	in
Figure	3.	This	should	also	be	the	beginning	of	the	classic	stretch:	place	your
upper	arm	in	its	maximum	position	before	you	place	your	lower	arm	in	position
and	try	to	make	them	connect.
If	you	find	it	difficult	to	even	connect,	you	should	proceed	with	the	help	of	a
band	or	a	towel.	Figure	4	shows,	appropriately,	the	execution	with	a	karate	belt.
You	execute	the	drill	with	some	distance	between	the	hands	but	the	option	to	pull
up.	Strive	to	reduce	gradually	the	distance	between	the	hands	until	you	can	have
your	fingers	grip	one	another.	Maybe	only	two	fingers	at	the	beginning;	then
tighten	gradually	your	grip	with	more	fingers	and	finally	a	tighter	grip.
Key	Points:
Body	straight	at	all	times
Grip	your	fingers	and	then	pull	up	to	stretch	the	lower	arm
The	classical	handgrip	of	Gomukhasana

Preparatory	stretch	to	the	Cow	Face	Grip

Use	a	belt	to	progress	towards	the	full	stretch
	
Downward	Dog	Pose
We	have,	of	course,	already	encountered	Yoga’s	“Dog	Poses”	in	Chapter	9	for
calves	stretching.	As	mentioned,	most	of	Yoga’s	poses	work	on	several	different
body	areas	at	the	same	time.	The	“Downward	Dog	pose”,	Yoga’s	Adho	Mukha
Svanasana,	is	also	a	great	shoulder	and	spine	stretch.	Refer	to	page	113	and
execute	the	pose	while	emphasizing	the	shoulder	stretch.	For	this,	you	will	need
to	execute	the	“long”	dog,	with	more	distance	between	your	hands	and	feet,	and
push	your	chest	down	as	much	as	possible.
While	in	position,	you	could	alternate	the	stretches:	concentrating	first	on	the
posterior	leg,	and	then	on	the	shoulders.
Key	Points:
Keep	arms	straight,	legs	straight	and	heels	on	the	floor
Concentrate	on	the	shoulders
Lower	the	head	and	neck	as	low	as	possible	between	your	arms
Concentrate	on	the	shoulder	stretch	in	Downward	Dog	pose
	
Side	Praying	Grip
Again	a	simple	but	very	effective	shoulder	stretch,	that	can	also	be	executed	any
time,	any	place,	as	a	relaxing	exercise.	As	illustrated	at	right	interlock	your
fingers	behind	your	back	as	if	in	prayer;	then	bring	the	joined	hands	to	one	side.
Strive	to	pull	the	hands	forward.	Switch	sides.
Key	Points:
Elongate	the	spine	and	stay	straight
Pull	the	joined	hands	straight	forward	to	your	front
Try	to	get	further	each	time
Front	and	Back	view	of	the	Side	Praying	Grip;	concentrate	on	pulling	the	“across”	arm	forward
	

Part	3:	Other	Drills
Some	readers	would	expect	at	this	stage	a	list	of	training	routines.	As	already
mentioned,	the	author	does	not	believe	in	setting	fixed	programs	to	be	followed
blindly.	The	reader	should	be	an	experienced	Martial	Artist	and	can	easily	build
his	own	list	of	exercises	in	order	of	preference	and	follow	it.	Of	course,	all	the
previous	advice	should	be	heeded.
In	order	to	undergo	the	leapfrog	to	the	next	level,	the	artist	should	pursue	a
methodical	regimen	of	4	to	5	weekly	hours	for	at	least	three	months,	on	top	of
his	regular	training.	As	mentioned,	the	preferred	timetable	should	be:	Plyo,	Flex,
Plyo,	Flex,	Plyo,	followed	by	two	rest	days.	One	of	the	two	rest	days	should	also
be	a	full	rest	day	from	all	other	regular	training.	The	trainee	is	then	invited	to
compile	his	training	routine	as	per	the	drills	he	feels	are	most	appropriate	for	his
goals	and	physiology.	For	plyometrics,	the	routine	should	include	a	mix	of	drills:
both	multi-and	single	response,	both	on-box	and	off-box	types,	and	also	drills
involving	kicking.	For	flexiometrics,	the	routine	should	include	stretches	from
all	muscle	categories	described.	It	is	then	of	the	highest	importance	that	the
trainee	follow	his	weekly	routine	without	changing	it.	The	exercises	and	their
sequence	should	be	fixed	for	at	least	one	month	but	preferably	three,	in	order	to
ensure	maximum	progress.	(As	mentioned,	the	routines	should	be	changed	after
three	months,	and	comprise	50%	new	exercises	from	the	book).	The	trainee
should	then	start	drilling	slowly,	gradually	and	carefully,	with	rests	in	between
exercises.	The	first	plyometrics	sessions	should	comprise	only	5	to	10	minutes	of
net	plyometric	work.	The	length	of	the	plyo	sessions,	the	difficulty	and	the	speed
can	slowly	be	increased	and	the	rest	in	between	drills	decreased.	With	training
and	increased	familiarity,	the	trainee	will	finally	do	one	full	hour	session	of
plyos	and	flexios	with	no	rest	in	between	drills	and	at	his	maximum	performance
level.	It	is	not	advised	to	train	more	than	one	hour	for	both	types.
All	the	while,	the	trainee	will	continue	his	regular	training:	Martial	Art	classes	in
his	chosen	style	and	complementary	training	according	to	his	goals.	The
Flexiometrics	and	Plyometrics	presented	here	are	only	two	types	of
complementary	training	for	the	athlete,	the	Martial	Artist	in	general	and	the
kicker	in	particular.	There	are	many	other	training	methods	to	improve	one’s
performance;	the	author	just	feels	that	Plyometrics	and	Methodical	Flexibility
training	are	the	most	beneficial	and	generally	the	most	under-used.	Other	general
categories	of	training	methods	are	listed	below,	although	the	list	is	sketchy	and
certainly	not	exhaustive.	Many	drills	are	also	cross-overs	from	different
categories.
a.	Rope	Skipping
This	is	probably	the	most	important	of	all,	and	it	is	rightly	mentioned	in	this
book:	Rope	Skipping	is	in	fact	a	classical	PLYOMETRIC	exercise!	It	is	multi-
response	and	minimizes	ground	time.	Rope	skipping,	in	its	many	forms,	is
probably	the	most	effective	exercise	to	develop	the	core	muscles	of	the	lower	leg
involved	in	fast	movement	and	body	positioning.	Because	we	are	constantly
walking	and	standing,	the	calves	and	other	muscles	of	our	lower	legs	are	very
developed	and	extremely	difficult	to	challenge.	Heavy	weight	exercises	are	not
what	are	needed	to	stimulate	all	the	muscles	involved	in	fast	and	all-directions
moves.	The	best	way,	and	probably	the	only	way,	is	rope	skipping	for	bouts	of	at
least	twenty	minutes.	It	is	time-consuming,	unfortunately,	but	there	is	no	way
around	it.	For	time-saving	purposes,	rope	skipping	was	the	author’s	favorite
warming-up	drill.	Once	one	is	familiar	with	regular	skipping,	it	is	recommended
to	up	the	challenge	with	more	complex	skipping	and	the	gradual	addition	of
weight	by	the	way	of	ankle	weights	and/or	weight	vest.	Remember	though,	that
weight	is	not	at	the	heart	of	the	drill:	the	key	point	is	the	multi-response	stimuli
to	the	calf	muscles.	Weight	addition	is	only	when	the	drill	is	completely
mastered	and	executed	fast	and	flawlessly.
b.	Kicking	Drills
There	are	many	kicking	drills,	well-known	by	the	artist.	Besides	the	very
important	technical	work	in	one’s	chosen	style,	a	few	examples	of	classical	drills
are	illustrated.	Not	illustrated	here	are	the	many	possible	combinations	of	double
kicks,	triple	kicks	and	feint	kicks.	Of	course,	this	is	a	very	limited	illustrated	list
of	examples.	The	number	of	possible	kicking	drills	is	immense.
The	classic	“Squat	and	Kick”

Another	“Squat	and	Kick
Kick/Chamber	back/Pivot	90	degrees/Kick/Chamber	back/	Pivot	90	degrees/etc	etc…The	foot	does	not	go
back	to	the	floor
	

Spin-back	down	and	kick	up
Crescent	Kicks	over	a	partner’s	hand
Chamber	and	kick	over	partner
Another	chambering	over	partner
Mark	the	floor	and	hop	as	far	as	possible	while	kicking
	
Kick	Focus	pad	for	accuracy	and	right	trajectory
Evade	and	Kick
Kick	from	the	ground

Use	of	a	dynamic	stick	for	body	positioning	during	kicking
	
Use	of	a	static	stick	for	body	positioning	during	kicking
	
Use	of	a	belt	for	head	height	control	during	kicking
	
Use	of	a	ladder	for	accurate	kicking	practice
Use	of	a	wall	for	correct	trajectory	work
Same-leg	kicking	in	series,	let	the	foot	“rebound”	on	the	floor.	Execute	at	least	20	kicks	efore	switching
legs
	

c.	Kicking	Drills	With	Props
The	use	of	props	for	technical	orthodoxy,	target	and	trajectory	practice	has	been
hinted	at	in	previous	work.	A	few	examples	are	presented	here.	Again,	those	are
only	a	few	of	many.
The	use	of	a	chair	for	good	chambering
The	use	of	targets	like	Body	Shields	and	Focus	Pads
	
The	use	of	a	chair	and	a	focus	pad	or	a	heavy	bag
	

The	use	of	a	chair	and	a	boxing	speedball
The	use	of	a	stick	for	spinning	back	drills
The	use	of	a	medicine	ball:	downward	heel	“axe”	Kick	and	Spin-back	ground	hook	kick
	
The	use	of	a	belt	for	high	chambering
A	heavy	bag	can	also	be	used	on	the	floor

The	use	of	an	old	tire	for	impact	and	target	training
	
The	use	of	hanging	tennis	balls	for	accuracy-and	“hooking”	effect-training
	
The	use	of	an	elastic	band	between	the	knees.	Many	drills	are	possible
	

d.	Ankle	weights	kicks
Ankle	weights	or	iron	boots	are	an	essential	tool	in	kick	building.	There	is	no
better	way	to	work	the	specific	muscles	involved	in	the	kick	than	having	to
increase	the	effects	of	gravity.	Always	remember,	after	a	series	of	weighted
kicks,	to	immediately	execute	the	kick	a	few	times	without	weight.	It	is
recommended,	when	working	with	ankle	weights	or	iron	boots	(or	ski	boots),	to
pay	particular	attention	to	a	technically	perfect	kick.	For	example,	kicks
requiring	high	chamber	should	be	drilled	with	a	chair	or	an	obstacle	ensuring
this	proper	chamber.	As	mentioned,	the	author	thinks	that	ankle	weights
combined	with	plyometrics	are	for	the	extremely	well-conditioned	elite	athletes
only,	because	it	requires	well	trained	core	muscles	and	joints	to	prevent	injury.
Iron	Boots-and	Ankle	Weights-kicking.	Try	to	use	props	for	good	form	and	remember	to	always	kick	free-
of-weight	at	the	end	of	the	drill
	

e.	Isometrics	and	Dynamic	Self-Resistance
Isometrics	are	a	very	safe	and	easy	way	to	build	the	kicking	muscles.	They	are
by	definition	done	in	static	positions.	Theoretically,	the	joint	angle	and	muscle
length	do	not	change	during	the	muscle	contraction.	An	example	would	be
pushing	to	develop	a	kick	against	the	wall	(overcoming	isometrics:	you	cannot
push	the	wall	away)	or	maintaining	the	position	against	a	partner’s	weight
(yielding	isometrics:	you	could	push	the	partner	away	if	you	wished	to).
Maintaining	the	leg	in	extended	kicking	position	is	another	example	of	a	truly
isometric	exercise,	well-known	in	Martial	Arts	training	halls.	In	fact,	many	Yoga
balance	exercises	are	extremely	beneficial	isometric	exercises,	as	maintaining
the	position	and	balance	requires	the	static	work	of	many	opposing	muscle
groups.	Presented	here,	just	as	an	illustration	are	the	Chair	Pose	(Utkatasana)	and
the	Warrior	3	Pose	(Virabhadrasana).
A	close	relative	of	Isometrics	is	Dynamic	Self-Resistance,	in	which	you	use	your
own	muscles	against	their	opposites.	In	this	case,	the	muscle	length	does	change,
albeit	very	very	slowly	against	the	resistance	of	another	muscle	group.	This	is
the	typical	slow	and	hard	forms	(kata)	of	the	classical	Okinawan	styles	of	Karate
like	Goju-ryu	or	Uechi-ryu.	An	example	would	be	the	slow	development	of	a
kick	with	all	muscles	tensed,	pitting	quadriceps	against	hamstrings	among
others.
After	isometric	and	dynamic	tension	exercises,	it	is	recommended	to	do	a	few
fast	and	loose	moves	to	relax	the	muscles	involved.
Front	Kick	Chamber	against	the	push-back	of	a	partner,	an	example	of	yielding	isometrics
	
Maintaining	the	leg	in	front	kick	position	is	also	a	great	isometric	exercise
	
f.	Weight	Training
Working	the	leg	muscles	is,	of	course,	a	basic	requirement	for	the	kicking	artist.
Squats	and	lunges	should	be	drilled	carefully	on	behalf	of	the	knee	joints.	A
muscle	building	regimen	should	include	work	on	all	the	leg’s	muscles:	not	only
quads	and	hamstrings,	but	also	abductors	and	adductors,	and	glutei.	And,	of
course,	the	laterals,	abdominals	and	lower	back	are	part	of	the	kicking	lines	of
supply.
Muscles	can	be	built	with	weight	machines,	free	weights	and	weightless
exercises.	All	types	are	valid	and	it	is	recommended,	again,	to	stick	to	an
exercise	program	for	a	minimum	of	one	month	and	a	maximum	of	three.	Then,
the	program	should	change	to	new	exercises	and	reps/sets	combinations.
Bodybuilding	routines,	methods	and	theories	are	beyond	the	scope	of	this	book.
A	few	photos	will	simply	illustrate	the	subject.
Leg	Curl	(Hamstrings)	Machine
Gluteus	work	on	the	rotary	weight	machine
Adductor	Machine
Leg	Press	Machine
Calf	Machine
Abductors	Machine
Leg	extension	(Quadriceps)	Machine
g.	Balance	Drills
Balance	drills	are	important	in	that	they	stimulate	the	entire	set	of	little	core
muscles	and	ligaments	involved	in	position	correction.	Those	play	a	key	role	in
fast	movement	and	kick	trajectory.	Those	exercises	are	often	undeservedly
neglected	because	they	seem	“easy”	and	“soft”.	Besides	the	“isometric”	yoga
poses	already	presented,	the	iconic	“tree	pose”	is	highly	recommended,	as	it
stimulates	all	the	small	core	muscles	of	the	lower	leg	that	are	difficult	to	exercise
otherwise.	Another	great	drill	is	the	standing,	punching,	kicking	and	“free
sparring”	atop	“Bosu”	balls	(Bosu	balance	trainers)	or	related	equipment.
Examples	of	Yoga	balance	poses	building	muscle	power	isometrically:	Respectively	Utkatasana	and
Virabhadrasana
	
The	airplane,	a	variation	of	the	Virabhadrasana	balance	pose;	isometric	muscle-building	exercise
	
Yoga’s	Tree	Pose,	Vrksasana

h.	Impact	Training
There	is	no	alternative	to	kicking	into	something	in	order	to	learn	to	channel	all
power	to	the	point	of	impact,	in	sports	or	in	real	combat.	It	is	all	the	more
important	if	the	trainee	has	even	the	slightest	fear	of	hurting	his	toes	or	other
foot	part	when	kicking,	as	it	can	unconsciously	cause	the	body	to	slow	the	kick.
All	kicks	must	be	drilled	for	power	development	at	impact	and	the	feeling	of	the
force	reaction,	whether	the	power	at	impact	comes	from	strength	and	hip	thrust,
or	comes	from	speed.	Heavy	bags	of	all	contents,	forms	and	sizes,	punching
balls,	focus	pads,	protected	partners,	tires,	bean	bags,	Makiwara,	…	everything
goes.	The	Shi-Heun	students	regularly	use	end-of-season	banana	trees
plantations	for	long	sessions	of	impact	training.
Body	shield	and	focus	pad

Heavy	bag	hanging	or	on	the	ground
Old	tire,	fixed	or	hold	by	partner

The	classic	Japanese	Makiwara
Standing	bags	of	all	types,	with	or	without	medicine	ball	on	top
	
Boxing	speedball	or	hanging	tennis	balls
Even	the	wall,	padded	or	not,	and	old	phonebooks

i.	Angling,	Trajectory	Work	and	Ground	Kicking
In	free	or	real	fighting,	your	opponent	will	rarely	stay	in	place	and	wait	for	your
kicking.	It	is	important	to	drill	angling	your	kicks,	changing	their	trajectory
during	delivery	and	delivering	them	from	unexpected	positions.	Your	front	kick
could	go	further	with	in-delivery	hop.	It	could	curve	on	delivery	to	sneak	into
your	opponent’s	guard.	It	could	be	delivered	while	pivoting	sideways	to	follow
an	evading	adversary.	A	few	examples	are	presented	here,	but	there	are	many
more.
Ground	Kicks	and	Dropping	(to	the	ground)	Kicks	are	a	great	way	to	improve
the	standing	kicks.	Not	only	does	it	teach	you	kicking	from	awkward	or	moving
positions,	it	also	makes	you	use	all	kinds	of	small	muscles	against	gravity,
muscles	that	do	not	encounter	the	same	stress	when	kicking	standing	up.	A	few
ground	kicks	are	presented,	as	well	as	classical	calisthenics/aerobic	exercises
relevant.
Two	angling	ways	to	drill	the	Roundhouse	Kick

Two	angling	ways	to	drill	the	Hook	Kick

Side	straight-leg	lift;	great	muscle	builder
A	ground	version	of	the	Front,	Side	and	Back	Kick
	

Ground	Roundhouse	Kick	to	the	side;	great	for	the	hip	muscles
	
j.	Telegraphing
Initiating	kicks	and	combination	attacks	in	front	of	the	mirror	or	with	a
cooperating	partner	is	an	important	drill.	Look,	or	have	him	look	at	any	telltales,
shoulder	drops,	foot	twitching,	head	bobbing,	and	others	that	would	give	away
your	imminent	attack.	You	should	strive	to	explode	forward	instantly,	with	no
telegraphing.
k.	Free	Fighting
There	is	no	alternative	to	mixing	it	all	together	in	front	of	an	opponent	that
moves,	attacks,	blocks,	evades	and	more.	This	should	be	preferably	done	with
several	sets	of	rules	to	familiarize	the	fighter	with	the	fact	that	the	rules	of
engagement	always	influence	the	way	to	fight.	Besides	light	sparring	and	one’s
fighting	in	the	framework	of	his	school’s	rules,	it	is	beneficial	to	learn	to	spar
with	different	and	also	minimal	rules	for	real-life	closeness.	Of	course	with
caution	and	supervision.
The	author	welcomes	any	comment,	suggestion,	additional	interesting	drills	or
testimonials	at	martialartkicks@gmail.com
