The	advice	and	exercises	in	this	book	are	intended	to	be	used	only	in	conjunction	with	the	advice
of	your	own	personal	physician.	Because	of	the	differences	in	physical	conditioning	from
individual	to	individual,	your	doctor	should	make	sure	that	these	exercises	are	safe	for	you.
Consult	your	physician	before	performing	this	or	any	other	exercise	program
.
Previous	editions	of	this	book	were	published	in	1981	and	1993	by	Doubleday.	This	edition
reprinted	by	special	arrangement	with	Doubleday.
Swimming	for	Total	Fitness
.	Copyright	©	1981,	1993	by	Jane	Katz	and	Nancy	P.	Bruning.	All
rights	reserved.	No	part	of	this	book	may	be	reproduced	or	transmitted	in	any	form	or	by	any
means,	electronic	or	mechanical,	including	photocopying,	recording,	or	by	any	information
storage	and	retrieval	system,	without	written	permission	from	the	publisher.	For	information,
address:	Broadway	Books,	a	division	of	Random	House,	Inc.,	1540	Broadway,	New	York,	NY
10036.
BROADWAY	BOOKS
	and	its	logo,	a	letter	B	bisected	on	the	diagonal,	are	trademarks	of	Broadway
Books,	a	division	of	Random	House,	Inc.
Visit	our	website	at	
www.broadwaybooks.com
The	Library	of	Congress	Cataloging-in-Publication	Data	has	cataloged	the	previous	edition	as:
Katz,	Jane.
						Swimming	for	total	fitness	:	a	progressive	aerobic	program	/	by
			Jane	Katz	with	Nancy	P.	Bruning;	illustrations	by	Phillip	Jones.—
			Updated.
									p.	cm.
						“Main	Street	Books.”
						1.	Swimming.	2.	Physical	fitness.	I.	Bruning,	Nancy	P.
II.	Title.
GV837.K355			1992
797.2’1—dc20
92-31877
eISBN:	978-0-30778611-1
eISBN:	978-0-30778611-1
v3.1
THIS	BOOK	IS	DEDICATED
TO	ALL	SWIMMERS	—
PAST,	PRESENT,	AND	FUTURE.
MAY	YOUR	
JOIE	DE	L’EAU
ALWAYS	BE	PART
OF	YOUR	
JOIE	DE	VIVRE!
S
A
CKNOWLEDGMENTS
ince	I’ve	been	swimming	all	my	life,	acknowledging	everyone	who	has
contributed	in	some	way	to	the	information	found	between	the	covers
of	this	book	seems	a	more	formidable	task	than	writing	the	book	itself!
But	here	goes.	I’d	like	to	thank:
My	parents,	Leon	and	Dorothea,	who	introduced	me	to	the
wonders	of	the	water	at	a	very	early	age.
My	sisters,	Elaine	and	June,	who	have	always	been	supportive
of	my	swimming	endeavors,	and	have	shared	their	expertise	as
well.
Particularly	my	brother	Paul—former	All-American	and
international	swimming	champion	at	Yale	University,	who,	in
his	coaching	career,	has	brought	the	La	Salle	College	swimming
team	to	its	first	conference	championship	since	1966—for
sharing	his	theories	and	techniques	with	me.
My	nephews,	Stephen,	Jason,	Justin,	and	Austen,	who
continually	share	their	fun	in	water.
Nancy	P.	Bruning,	whose	writing	expertise	and	love	of
swimming	have	helped	in	large	part	to	make	this	book	possible;
Lindy	Hess;	Gerry	Helferich,	my	initial	editor	(a.k.a.	“that
swimming	maniac”);	to	Phillip	Jones,	whose	illustrations	help
prove	that	one	picture	is	worth	a	thousand	swimming	lessons.
Michele	Martin,	Theresa	Horner,	and	Katharine	Chang	for
initiating	and	carrying	out	this	updated	state-of-the-art	version
of	our	book,	to	Kacy	Tebbel	for	copy	editing,	Marysarah	Quinn
and	Patrice	
Fodero	for	book	design,	Peter	Kruzan	for	cover
design,	and	to	Liz	Kurnetz.
Lisa	Harbatkin	and	Stuart	Kampel,	for	their	assistance	in	the
initial	stages	of	the	book.
Linda	Ayache	for	her	help	in	typing	the	manuscript.
All	the	doctors	and	consultants	who	were	generous	enough	to
contribute	their	time	and	expertise	in	answering	our	questions.
To	Dr.	Willibald	Nagler,	for	his	timely	comments	in	the
Foreword.
To	Gil	Rogin	and	John	Butterfield	for	their	quotable	quotes.
	…	and	finally	all	my	swimming	and	dry-land	buddies	who	have	given
me	their	support	and	feedback	over	the	years:	the	various	staff	members
and	officials	of	the	U.S.	Masters	Swimming	Committee,	Inc.,	including
June	Krauser,	Ted	Haartz,	Enid	Uhrich,	John	Spannuth,	Suzanne	Rague,
and	Dorothy	Donnelly;	the	past	and	current	presidents	of	the
International	Swimming	Hall	of	Fame—Buck	Dawson,	the	late	John	B.
Kelly,	Jr.,	and	Dr.	Sam	Freas;	the	members	of	the	CCNY	(my	alma
mater!)	swim	team	and	its	staff,	Jim	Sinocchi,	Greg	Kincheloe,	and
particularly	Elaine	Fincham	and	coach	Marcello	Rodriguez;	the
swimmers	of	the	Empire	Swim	Club	and	its	inaugural	president,	Jim
Forbes;	fitness	and	competitive	swimmers	around	the	world;	also	Phil
Moriarity,	former	coach	at	Yale	University;	Dr.	Herbert	L.	Erlanger;	Pat
Earle;	Dr.	Michael	Ross;	Bob	Fine;	Louise	Dembeck-Neiman;	Dr.	Paul
Hutinger;	Margaret	A.	Johnson;	Fran	Hare;	Patti	Robison;	Roz	Heitner;
Elizabeth	Nichol;	Leslie	Porte;	and	finally	all	my	students	and
professional	colleagues	with	whom	I’ve	had	the	pleasure	to	teach	and
work.
C
ONTENTS
Cover
Title	Page
Copyright
Dedication
Acknowledgments
Foreword
				
by	Willibald	Nagler,	M.D.,	F.A.C.P
.
Introduction
Part	One:	The	Fundamentals	of	Swimming
Lesson	One
Breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing
Lesson	Two
Controlled	breathing,	prone	float	and	recovery	to	a	stand,	prone	glide	and
flutter	kicking	with	assistance
Lesson	Three
Crawl-stroke	arm	motion,	prone	glide	with	flutter	kicking
	(
unassisted
)
Lesson	Four
Crawl	stroke	with	rhythmic	breathing
Lesson	Five
Buoyancy	check,	deep-water	tour,	treading
Lesson	Six
Supine	float	with	flutter	kicking	and	recovery	to	a	stand,	deep-water
treading
Lesson	Seven
Supine	sculling	with	flutter	kicking,	shallow	surface	entry
Lesson	Eight
Elementary	backstroke	with	flutter	kick,	sitting	dive	entry
Lesson	Nine
Supine	float	with	whip	kick,	elementary	backstroke	with	whip	kick
Lesson	Ten
Windmill	backstroke
Part	Two:	The	Techniques	of	Swimming
Stroke	Components
Freestyle
Backstroke
Breaststroke
Butterfly	Stroke
Sidestroke
Part	Three:	Starts,	Dives,	and	Turns
Starts
Crawl	or	freestyle	in-the-water	start,	breaststroke	in-the-water	start,
butterfly	in-the-water	start,	sidestroke	in-the-water	start,	backstroke	start
Dives
Kneeling,	semi-standing,	standing,	wind-up,	grab-start	dives
Turns
Crawl-stroke/freestyle	open	turn,	crawl-stroke/freestyle	closed	turn,
backstroke	open	turn,	breaststroke	open	turn,	butterfly	open	turn,
sidestroke	open	turn,	freestyle	flip	turn,	backstroke	spin	turn,	backstroke
flip	turn,	transitional	turns
Part	Four:	Swimming-for-Fitness	Progressive	Workout	Program
Phase	I:	Beginners’	Workouts
Phase	II:	Intermediate	Workouts
Phase	III:	Advanced	Workouts
Phase	IV:	Super	Workouts
Swimming	to	Win
Early	season,	mid-season,	and	taper	and	peak	workouts
Part	Five:	Equipment
Pools
Swim	Suits
Goggles
Bathing	Caps
Kickboards
Swim	Fins
Pull-Buoys
Hand	Paddles
Other	Resistance	Devices
Clocks	and	Other	Timing	Devices
Supplier/Manufacturers
Swimming	Magazines
Organizations
Part	Six:	Dr.	J’s	Q’s	&	A’s
Chlorine,	Skin,	and	Hair
Eyes,	Ears,	Nose,	and	Throat
Aches	and	Pains
Especially	for	Women
Nutrition,	Diet,	Weight	Loss
Swimming	Faster	and	Farther
Odds	and	Ends
Just	for	Fun
Appendixes
Appendix	A:	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
Appendix	B:	Safe	Swimming
Appendix	C:	For	the	Record
Appendix	D:	For	
Your
	Record
F
OREWORD
T
hroughout	history,	water	has	been	used	to	promote	and	restore
health.	
In	aqua	sana	est
	(Water	is	healthy)	was	chiseled	by	the	Romans
into	the	walls	of	their	baths.	And,	whatever	reasons	the	Romans	had	for
crediting	water	as	a	source	of	well-being,	we	now	know	that	its	physical
properties	have	a	health-promoting	effect.	This	promotion	of	health
through	swimming	has	been	the	spark	behind	the	work	of	Dr.	Jane	Katz.
In	her	book	she	sets	forth	a	fitness	program	using	modern	training
methods	developed	from	her	experience	as	both	a	teacher	and	a
competitive	swimmer.	This	book,	which	is	addressed	to	the	fledgling
swimmer	as	much	as	to	the	experienced	one,	shows	swimming	to	be	a
satisfying	and	healthy	way	to	physical	fitness.
Swimming	has	many	advantages	over	other	sports.	Most	aerobic
activities	(that	is,	those	that	make	us	out	of	breath),	such	as	jogging,
tennis,	climbing,	and	aerobic	dancing,	place	stress	on	the	weight-bearing
joints	and	the	lumbar	spine.	Swimming,	on	the	other	hand,	gives	an
aerobic	effect	with	less	stress	to	the	joints.	In	addition,	moving	the	arms
and	legs	against	the	resistance	of	the	water	is	the	equivalent	of
exercising	with	weights,	but	since	water	doesn’t	allow	any	sudden,
harmful	movements,	the	risk	of	injury	is	lowered.	Also,	swimming
exercises	both	sides	of	the	body	equally.	Out	of	the	water,	only	cross-
country	skiing	even	approaches	this	symmetrical	effect.
Although	swimming	is	ideal	for	people	of	any	age,	it	is	particularly
beneficial	for	the	older	person.	By	the	age	of	sixty	or	seventy,	many
people	who	are	in	otherwise	excellent	health	are	hampered	in	sports	by
minor	
hypertrophic	arthritic	changes	in	the	spine	and	the	weight-bearing
joints,	which	can	make	it	rather	difficult	to	jog,	play	tennis,	or	take	part
in	other	sporting	activities.	For	these	people,	swimming	is	an	excellent
way	to	reap	the	aerobic	benefits	of	running	or	tennis	without	incurring
any	pain.	In	the	water,	the	weight-bearing	stress	of	the	vertical	position
is	eliminated,	there	is	less	stress	on	the	joints	during	the	contraction	of
the	muscles,	and	what	stress	there	is	is	distributed	equally	throughout
the	joints.	For	these	reasons	swimming	is	a	very	useful	therapeutic
activity	for	many	locomotion	problems.	In	fact,	the	swimmer	can	do
much	by	himself	to	contribute	to	his	own	rehabilitation,	thereby	often
shortening	an	otherwise	long	and	expensive	process.
In	addition,	recent	reports	show	that	often	youngsters	who	are	not
able	to	participate	in	sports	like	track	or	soccer	because	of	some
respiratory	illness	such	as	asthma	can	become	successful	competitive
swimmers.	The	air	near	the	surface	of	the	water	is	freer	of	dust	and
other	pollutants,	and	it	has	been	shown	that	exhaling	against	the
resistance	of	the	water	can	dilate	the	bronchi.	Furthermore,	everyone,
not	only	asthmatics,	can	benefit	from	the	efficient	breathing	techniques
learned	in	swimming.
Whatever	statistics	one	reads,	one	sees	that	swimmers	have	a	much
lower	frequency	of	injury	than	participants	in	virtually	any	other	sport.	I
do	not	know	of	anybody	of	any	age	who	cannot	learn	to	swim,	and	I	do
not	know	of	anyone	who	has	regretted	doing	so.
Jane	Katz,	Ed.D.,	is	a	professor	of	health	and	physical	education	at
Bronx	Community	College	and	John	Jay	College	of	Criminal	Justice	of
the	City	University	of	New	York.	Her	academic	achievements	and	her
experience	as	a	member	of	international	swimming	and	synchronized
swimming	teams	make	her	aptly	suited	to	write	an	excellent,
instructional	book	on	swimming.	
Swimming	for	Total	Fitness
	gives,	in
easily	understood	form,	a	program	that	will	prepare	the	beginner	for
pleasurable	and	beneficial	swimming	and	that	will	also	help	the
experienced	swimmer	to	sharpen	his	skills.	Structures	of	the	locomotion
system	change	continuously	as	we	mature,	but	swimming	is	one	activity
that	can	be	performed	with	impunity	at	any	age.	Youngsters,	busy
executives,	homemakers,	and	other	persons	who	want	to	engage	in	an
aerobic	activity	with	an	extremely	low	incidence	of	injury	will	derive
much	benefit	from	studying	Dr.	Jane	Katz’s	book	and	following	her
program.
WILLIBALD	NAGLER,	M.D.,	F.A.C.P.
Physiatrist-in-chief,	New	York	Hospital	Cornell	Medical	Center
I
NTRODUCTION
I
t	falls	from	the	sky,	and	it	comes	out	of	the	ground.	Two	thirds	of	your
body	is	made	of	it.	It	keeps	your	skin	from	wrinkling,	flowers	from
wilting.	You	wash	with	it,	drink	it,	cook	with	it.	Kids	love	to	play	in	it,
wars	have	been	fought	over	it.	Three	quarters	of	the	earth	is	covered
with	it.	Some	believe	it	cleanses	the	soul	and	purifies	the	mind.	What	is
it?	It’s	
water—
and	it’s	also	what	makes	swimming	unique	in	the	world	of
sports	and	physical	fitness.
You	know	by	now	that	exercise	is	good	for	you—physically,	mentally,
even	emotionally.	But	how	should	you	exercise?	As	doctors	in	sports
medicine	have	focused	more	closely	on	sports-related	injuries,	they	have
learned	that	some	sports,	although	in	some	ways	good	for	you,	can	also
be	downright	bad.	How	many	runners	do	you	know	without	shin	splints,
for	instance,	or	how	many	tennis	players	do	you	know	who	don’t
complain	of	tennis	elbow?	And	many	sports	seem	like	fun	initially	but
soon	prove	boring,	or	expensive,	or	limited	in	scope	(or	all	three).	No
wonder	people	hesitate	to	begin	a	program	or,	once	they	start,	become
disillusioned	and	give	it	up	so	easily.	Broken	arms,	bad	knees,	hours	of
grueling,	sweaty	work,	depleted	bank	accounts	should	not	be	the	price
you	have	to	pay	for	physical	fitness.
And	it’s	not—if	you	swim!	Swimming	has	something	special:	you	do	it
in	water.	And	that’s	a	plus.	Water	is	the	secret	ingredient	that	makes
swimming	better	for	you	than	any	other	sport.	Did	you	know,	for
example,	that	every	time	a	runner’s	foot	hits	the	ground	his	body
receives	a	shock	of	up	to	
three	times
	his	or	her	body	weight?	(Multiply
that	by	3,000	strides	
for	every	mile	run,	and	you’re	talking	about	an
incredible	pounding.)	On	the	other	hand,	a	swimmer’s	body	feels	as
though	it	weighs	less	in	water,	owing	to	the	upward	force	of	buoyancy.
And	there’s	no	jarring	against	any	hard	surface:	there’s	only	the	smooth,
rhythmic	motion	through	the	water.	That’s	not	to	say	you	shouldn’t	run
at	all.	But	that	extra	wear	and	tear	can	add	up	over	time,	if	dry-land
exercise	is	the	mainstay	of	your	fitness	program.	More	and	more	people
are	discovering	that	their	feet,	leg	muscles,	knees,	and	hip	joints	simply
cannot	stand	up	over	the	years	to	that	kind	of	constant	pounding.	That’s
why	swimming	is	the	sport	of	the	future—it	lets	you	fulfill	your	fitness
quota	without	the	harmful	side	effects	that	land	sports	can	bring.
Swimming	is	the	closest	thing	on	this	earth	to	a	perfect	sport.	It
exercises	all	the	major	muscles	of	the	body;	it’s	the	inexpensive,	fun,
social,	graceful,	sensual,	safe,	gentle	way	to	achieve	fitness—and	it’s	an
activity	that	you	can	enjoy	for	a	lifetime.	It	can	also	be	an	athletic,
artistic,	intellectual,	and	spiritual	challenge,	depending	upon	how	you
want	to	go.	So	give	swimming	a	try.	But	I	warn	you.	You	may	never
want	to	get	out	of	the	water.	You’ll	find	swimming	one	of	the	few	things
that	successfully	combine	business	(in	this	case,	physical	fitness)	with
pleasure.
Swimming	is	still	among	the	most	popular	sports	activities	in	the
United	States.	According	to	the	1992	National	Sporting	Goods
Association,	over	66	million	Americans	went	swimming	at	least	once
during	the	year.	A	1990	Gallup	poll	affirms	this	participation:	38	percent
of	those	polled	said	they	participated	in	swimming	that	year:	followed
by	fishing	at	29	percent,	running	and	jogging	at	19	percent,	and	aerobic
dance	at	13	percent.	So	come	join	us	…	get	in	the	swim!
W
HAT
	S
WIMMING
	W
ILL
	D
O	FOR
	Y
OU
Swimming	has	a	lot	going	for	it.	But	first	I	want	to	say	a	few	words
about	what	sets	it	apart	from	all	the	rest—water.	That’s	because	an
appreciation	of	the	water	is	one	of	the	most	important	aspects	of
discovering	the	joys	and	benefits	of	swimming.
What’s	so	special	about	water?	Plenty!	First	of	all,	how	long	and	hard
will	you	work	at	something	if	you	aren’t	deriving	some	pleasure	from	it?
Not	very	long	and	not	very	hard.	The	fact	that	something	is	“good	for
you”	isn’t	really	enough	in	the	long	run.	Whether	it’s	running	or
swimming—or	eating	your	vegetables—if	you	do	it	only	because	you
“should”	and	not	because	you	like	it,	you’ll	soon	find	excuses	for
stopping.
But	water	
feels
	good	and	
is
	good—for	your	body	and	for	your	soul.	In
water,	our	bodies	seem	to	defy	gravity,	and	we	come	as	close	as	we	ever
will	to	the	feeling	of	flying.	And	water	is	a	wonderfully	sensuous
medium;	just	being	in	it	is	relaxing	and	exhilarating	at	the	same	time.	In
water	every	motion	seems	effortless,	our	muscles	relax,	and	our	mental
walls	seem	to	melt	and	float	away.
Most	people,	no	matter	what	their	age,	find	water	deliciously
pleasurable	and	soothing.	When	you’re	tense	or	you	have	an	ache
somewhere—especially	if	you	suffer	from	a	back	problem—don’t	you
think	about	how	nice	it	would	be	to	soak	your	troubles	away	in	a
soothing	whirlpool	or	bath?
But	water’s	greatest	advantage	is	its	buoyancy.	This	buoyant	quality	is
the	swimmer’s	secret	ally.	The	buoyancy	is	always	there—holding	you
up	while	you’re	in	the	water,	and	keeping	you	feeling	“up”	long	after
you’ve	wiped	the	last	droplet	from	your	skin.	Water	lifts	your	spirits	as
well	as	your	body.	After	a	swim,	there’s	a	euphoria	that	permeates	your
entire	existence	for	hours	afterward.
But	enough	of	swimming’s	seemingly	magical	properties.	What	will	it
do	for	you	in	scientific	terms?
It	Helps	Your	Heart,	Blood	Vessels,	and	Lungs
.	Swimming	is	an
excellent	
aerobic
	(heart-pumping)	exercise,	which	means	that	if	you	do	it
regularly	and	vigorously	enough	to	raise	your	heartbeat	to	70	percent	of
its	Maximum	Rate	(see	Target	Rate,	
this	page
)	for	a	half	hour	or	more,
your	cardiovascular	system	will	gradually	grow	stronger	and	more
efficient.	By	making	your	system	work	this	way	(in	a	sensible,
progressive	manner),	you	train	your	body	to	handle	the	extra	demand,
and	it	even	becomes	able	to	function	better	under	normal	conditions,
when	the	strain	is	removed.	This	is	known	as	the	
training	effect
	When
you	exercise	aerobically,	your	lungs	actually	increase	in	size,	capacity,
and	efficiency.	Your	heart	becomes	more	powerful,	more	fit	with
exercise,	just	like	any	other	muscle.	Your	blood	vessels	actually	increase
in	number,	and	they	may	even	become	more	flexible,	thereby
forestalling	any	tendency	toward	arteriosclerosis.	Some	studies	also
indicate	that	aerobic	exercise	reduces	the	cholesterol	levels	in	the	blood
overall,	and	that	it	may	alter	the	cholesterol	that	is	found	in	the	blood	to
a	less	dangerous	type.	Other	aerobic	benefits	include	lower	blood
pressure,	improved	digestion,	a	clearer	complexion,	and	generally
increased	alertness.	Aerobic	exercise	can	also	help	alleviate	the	stress
that	can	put	a	lethal	strain	on	the	heart,	and,	finally,	if	you’re
overweight,	the	weight	reduction	that	usually	goes	hand	in	hand	with
vigorous	exercise	(more	on	this	below)	will	further	alleviate	the	strain
on	your	heart.
Swimming	has	this	added	effect:	when	your	body	is	horizontal	and
immersed	in	water,	your	heart	is	actually	larger	than	when	you’re
vertical	on	dry	land	and	it	has	to	pump	against	gravity.	As	a	result,
between	10	and	20	percent	more	blood	is	pumped	with	each	heart
contraction.	This	effect	gives	you	the	potential	to	work	harder	and
longer	than	you	ever	could	on	land.	And	it	makes	swimming	the	ideal
(and	sometimes	the	
only
)	exercise	available	to	those	who	suffer	from
heart	disease.
It	Gives	You	Stronger,	Firmer	Muscles
.	Swimming	is	the	single	best
exercise	for	toning	your	arms,	shoulders,	waistline,	hips,	and	legs	all	at
once.	And	since	the	water	cushions	and	supports	your	body,	your
chances	of	straining	a	muscle	are	greatly	reduced.
It	Increases	Flexibility
.	Swimming’s	long,	sinuous	motions,	along	with
the	increased	range	of	movement	that	your	body	has	in	the	water,
actually	elongate	your	muscles	while	strengthening	them.	Swimming
will	help	loosen	you	up—both	in	the	water	and	after	you’re	out.
It’s	Easy	on	Your	Muscles	and	Bones
.	One	of	the	best	things	about
swimming	is	that	it	gives	you	all	of	the	pleasures	and	benefits	of
exercising	without	the	troublesome	and	often	painful	side	effects	that
other	sports	can	have	on	your	musculoskeletal	system.	It’s	the	whole-
body,	all-around	exercise	that	builds	endurance	and	balanced	muscle
strength,	without	jarring	your	bones	and	muscles.	Because	the	resistance
of	the	water	actually	helps	you	exercise	your	muscles,	because	the
movements	are	relatively	slow	and	rhythmic,	and	because	you	aren’t
likely	to	collide	with	other	people	or	with	equipment—the	average
swimmer	has	virtually	no	injuries	to	worry	about.	In	fact,	swimming’s
the	one	exercise	that	doctors—especially	sports	medicine	specialists—
unfailingly	recommend	to	those	who	have	sustained	injuries	in	other
sports,	or	in	life.
The	fact	that	swimming	puts	a	minimum	of	strain	on	the	joints	of	your
body	is	especially	good	news	for	those	with	arthritis	or	chronic	back
problems,	since	it’s	often	the	only	exercise	these	people	can	perform.	It’s
also	good	news	for	those	who	want	to	avoid	these	problems	in	the
future.
It	Helps	You	Lose	Weight
.	In	order	to	lose	weight,	your	body	must	use
more	calories	than	it	takes	in.	Swimming	will	help	greatly	here	(see	
this
page
).	And	although	light	or	moderate	exercise	can	stimulate	the
appetite,	studies	(and	personal	experience)	have	shown	that	strenuous
exercise	may	actually	diminish	your	desire	to	eat.	After	a	vigorous	swim,
the	last	thing	you’ll	want	to	do	is	stuff	yourself.	(That’s	why	it’s	a	good
idea	to	schedule	a	swim	before	the	biggest	meal	of	the	day.)
More	importantly,	exercise	helps	raise	your	metabolism—the	rate	at
which	your	body	burns	up	calories—not	only	during	exercise,	but	for
hours	afterward.	Even	long	after	you’re	out	of	the	pool,	in	other	words,
your	swimming	will	still	be	helping	you	to	lose	weight.	Finally,
swimming	is	so	relaxing	that	it	may	even	help	you	control	compulsive
overeating	brought	on	by	tension.
It’s	Good	for	Overweight	Persons
.	If	you’re	on	the	heavy	side,	your
adipose	tissue	makes	you	even	more	buoyant	than	your	svelter
counterparts.	This	extra	support	is	why	you’re	more	comfortable
swimming	than	doing	any	other	sort	of	exercise.	And	being	overweight
doesn’t	slow	you	down	nearly	as	much	as	it	does	on	land;	in	fact,	some
swimmers—especially	headline-making	long-distance	swimmers—have
an	extra	layer	of	fat	for	warmth.
It	Aids	Physical	Therapy
.	Water’s	buoyancy	also	makes	swimming	an
excellent	therapeutic	exercise.	It	gradually	and	gently	relaxes	and
rehabilitates	muscles	and	joints	that	for	one	reason	or	another	have
atrophied	or	stiffened.	Swimming	is	a	sport	that	can	be	enjoyed	by	the
injured	and	by	the	handicapped.	The	therapeutic	benefits	of	immersing
yourself	in	water	are	well	documented,	and	doctors	often	recommend
swimming	to	their	patients	who	need	a	gentle,	soothing	form	of	activity
for	a	temporary	injury.	Water	is	so	safe,	in	fact,	that	nature	uses	it	to
protect	us	during	the	most	vulnerable	time	of	our	lives—while	we’re	still
developing	in	our	mother’s	womb.
It	Helps	You	to	Enjoy	Other	Sports	and	Other	People
.	Your	newfound
energy	and	endurance	will	allow	you	to	enjoy	dry-land	activities	such	as
tennis	or	dancing	till	dawn.	And	love-making,	too:	the	sensual	swimmer
knows	how	pleasurable	it	is	to	use	one’s	muscles	to	move	through	the
water;	how	it	heightens	physical	strength,	flexibility,	and	the	awareness
of	one’s	body.	And	this	is	not	simply	the	power	of	suggestion,	or	wishful
thinking.	Science	has	shown	that	swimming	actually	helps	one	feel
“sexier”	temporarily	by	affecting	the	body’s	hormonal	balance.	A	study
made	of	258	swimmers	(108	women	and	150	men)	found	that	20
percent	said	they	enjoyed	a	higher	rate	of	sexual	activity	after	they’d
begun	to	swim	regularly.
It	Slows	Down	the	Clock
.	Lack	of	exercise	is	the	most	important	factor
in	premature	aging.	Our	bodies	actually	thrive	on	use.	Up	to	a	point,	the
more	you	do,	the	more	you	can	do.	In	other	words,	use	it	or	lose	it.
Regular	exercise	can	add	years	to	your	life.	And	if	your	sport	exercise
is	swimming,	it	can	continue	to	help	slow	the	aging	process	for	as	long
as	you	live.	I’ve	seen	many	persons	sixty	years	and	older	who	swim	two
miles	or	more	every	day.	You	should	see	the	shape	they’re	in.	Most	forty-
year-olds	would	kill	to	look	like	that!
And	did	you	know	that	some	conditioned	sixty-year-olds	can	swim	60–
70	pecent	as	fast	as	conditioned	twenty-year-olds?	If	you	swim	for
fitness,	statistics	show	that	you’ll	lose	only	about	1	percent	of	your
ability	per	year.	And	as	the	years	go	by	you’ll	still	be	perfecting	your
technique,	so	that	it’s	actually	possible	that	your	performance	will
improve	over	time.
It	Provides	Lifelong	Satisfaction	and	Competition
.	First	of	all,
perfecting	your	swimming	can	bring	you	the	unbeatable	satisfaction	of
mastering	a	skill.	You	don’t	have	to	be	an	Olympic	swimmer	to	enjoy
pushing	your	abilities	to	the	limit.	You	can	always	satisfy	your	urge	to
compete	by	swimming	against	your	previous	times	and	distances,	or	by
racing	informally	with	a	group	of	friends.	Or,	thanks	to	the	Masters
Swimming	Program,	begun	in	1970,	you	can	engage	in	an	organized
competition	against	others	in	your	own	age	group.	The	YMCAs	and
YMHAs	across	the	country	have	also	instituted	this	popular	swimming
program	as	part	of	their	regular	aquatic	schedule.
The	Masters	Program	is	unique	in	that	it	provides	recreational,	social,
and	competitive	programs	that	people	can	enjoy	throughout	their	lives.
Most	other	sports	programs	become	too	strenuous	later	in	life,	and	the
competition	with	younger	and	stronger	athletes	becomes	too	frustrating.
But	in	the	Masters	Program,	there	are	people	in	their	eighties,	nineties,
and	even	a	centenarian	or	two	competing	in	swimming	meets
throughout	the	United	States—and	the	world.	So,	not	only	can	you	be
swimming	through	the	’90s;	you	can	swim	into	
your
	nineties!
It’s	Inexpensive
.	Swimming	is	an	exercise	that	can	fit	everyone’s
budget,	since	it	can	cost	as	little	as	the	price	of	a	bathing	suit.	And
swimming	doesn’t	usually	involve	travel	expenses,	club	membership,	or
fancy	equipment.	All	you	need	is	water!	In	fact,	a	recent	comparison
survey	found	that	a	swimmer	spends	
less	than	half
	the	money	on
equipment	that	he	would	for	any	other	sport.
It’s	Varied
.	So	you	think	a	swimming	workout	consists	of	jumping	into
a	pool	and	swimming	away,	lap	after	endless	lap,	for	as	long	as	you	can?
Have	I	got	news	for	you!	Just	turn	to	the	workouts	that	begin	on	
this
page
,	for	a	glimpse	of	how	varied	a	swim	can	be.
First	of	all,	there	are	four	competitive	strokes	from	which	to	choose
(crawl	or	freestyle,	backstroke,	breaststroke,	and	butterfly).	Then	there
are	the	recreational	and	resting	strokes	and	skills	(elementary
backstroke,	sculling,	sidestroke,	and	treading	skills),	plus	their
variations.	During	a	workout	you	can	do	each	stroke	while	
pulling
	(using
only	the	arms),	or	
kicking
	(just	the	legs),	or	
swimming
	(using	both	arms
and	legs).	You	can	vary	the	pace	by	swimming	fast,	slow,	or	in	between.
You	can	swim	against	the	clock	or	at	your	own	internal	pace.	You	can
swim	long	distances,	short	distances,	or	middle	distances.	You	can	try
equipment	such	as	fins,	kickboards,	hand	paddles,	and	pull-buoys	(see
this	page
-
this	page
).	And	for	each	stroke,	you	have	any	number	of	dives,
starts,	and	turns	to	practice	each	time	you	swim.	And	that’s	not	even
counting	water	exercises,	deep-water	running,	
etc.
	So	you	see,	unlike
many	other	aerobic	or	all-around	exercises,	swimming	is	anything	but
monotonous.
S
WIMMING
	I
S
	W
HAT
	Y
OU
	M
AKE
	I
T
You	have	your	own	special	reasons	for	swimming.	It	can	be	for	fitness,
appearance,	pleasure,	or	all	three.	Your	reasons	may	change	over	the
years,	but	no	matter	what	your	reason	for	exercising,	fitness,	as	a	friend
of	mine	once	pointed	out,	is	one	of	the	few	things	in	life	that’s	fair.
We’re	all	born	with	different	levels	of	ability,	but	within	our
limitations	each	of	us	has	a	tremendous	amount	of	material	to	work
with.	It’s	a	shame	when	we	don’t	work	up	to	our	potential.	In	order	to
get	into	and	remain	in	the	best	physical	condition	that	he	can	be,	that
rich	guy	over	there	with	the	two	Rolls-Royces	and	the	private	swimming
pool	has	to	work	just	as	hard	as	that	factory	worker,	hassled	executive,
housekeeper,	or	
you
.	In	other	words,	regardless	of	who	you	are,	you’ll
get	as	much	out	of	swimming	as	you	put	into	it.	What	could	be	fairer
than	that?
Life	has	its	competitive	moments,	no	matter	how	much	you	may	try	to
avoid	them.	And	what	you	learn	about	yourself	through	swimming	can
help	you	over	the	roughest	spots.	For	one	thing,	you’ll	have	to	assess
your	abilities	objectively—past,	present,	and	future.	For	another,	the
discipline	involved	in	sticking	to	a	swimming	program	increases	your
self-esteem.	To	see	your	distance	grow,	your	skills	improve,	your	body
strengthen—
that’s	a	good	feeling.	And	your	ability	to	set	goals	and	to
achieve	them	will	carry	over	into	other	parts	of	your	life.	Even	if	you
don’t	achieve	all	your	goals,	it’s	no	disaster—that	will	help	you	develop
a	healthy	acceptance	of	disappointment	as	well	as	fulfillment.
Swimming	can	be	as	social	or	solitary	an	endeavor	as	you	like.	You
can	join	a	team	or	swim	club,	go	to	meets	and	compete,	and	get	your
friends	and	family	involved.	Or	you	can	compete	against	yourself	in
order	to	achieve	strictly	personal	goals.	You	can	reserve	your	swim	as	a
private	little	pocket	of	time	that’s	yours	and	yours	alone.	What’s	great
about	swimming	is	you	don’t	have	to	spend	time	looking	for	a	partner	or
team,	but	if	you	feel	like	company,	you	have	the	option.
And	swimming	can	be	your	answer	to	this	modern-day	poser:	Is	there
life	without	television?	Here’s	one	healthful	alternative	to	the	passive
life,	or	what	I	call	“spectatoritis.”	No	more	sitting	around,	waiting	for,
and	accepting	the	prepackaged	material	that	someone	else	has	decided
you	want.	When	you	swim,	you	become	your	own	“live	entertainment”
and	become	more	of	a	part	of	life—a	doer,	instead	of	an	observer.
I	hope	by	now	you’re	eager	to	take	the	plunge.	But	first	you	have	to
know	a	few	things	about	my	program.
W
HOM
	T
HIS
	B
OOK
	I
S
	F
OR
This	book	is	for	you	if:
You’re	an	adult	who	has	tried	to	learn	to	swim	in	the	past,	but
without	success.
You	can	swim	a	little	but	want	to	learn	swim	skills	better.
(Haven’t	you	said	or	heard,	“I	can	swim	but	I	can’t	breathe”?)
You’re	an	accomplished	swimmer	who	wants	to	review	your
skills	and	refine	your	technique.
You’re	a	swimming	instructor	or	coach	who	wants	to	improve
the	effectiveness	of	your	classes.
You’re	a	person	who	is	looking	for	a	progressive	aerobic	fitness
program.
If	you	don’t	swim	now,	this	book	will	teach	you	how	to	swim—and
swim	correctly.	That’s	a	promise.	Over	the	past	thirty	years,	I’ve	used
these	techniques	with	thousands	of	die-hard	landlubbers	of	all	shapes,
sizes,	ages,	and	abilities.
So,	whether	you’re	young	or	just	young	at	heart,	a	total	beginner	or	an
experienced	swimmer,	whether	you’re	swimming	solo	or	with	one	or
more	partners,	or	even	if	you	need	a	competent	guide	to	help	you	teach
others—this	book	is	designed	for	
you
.
H
OW
	T
O
	U
SE
	T
HIS
	B
OOK
This	book	can	be	used	in	several	ways,	whether	you	want	to	learn	how
to	swim,	to	improve	your	skills	at	any	level,	to	raise	and	to	maintain
your	level	of	fitness,	or	to	compete:
By	Yourself
.	Everything	you	need	to	learn	is	here,	divided	into	easy-
to-understand	progressive	steps.	Just	follow	the	lessons	and	workouts
carefully,	on	your	own.	For	safety’s	sake,	though,	always	be	sure	there	is
someone	else	around	the	water—preferably	a	lifeguard.	Even	the	most
accomplished	swimmers	obey	this	rule:	never	enter	the	water	unless
there	is	another	person	present	who	can	help	in	case	of	an	emergency.
Along	with	a	Partner	or	Buddy
.	This	is	the	best	in	terms	of	moral
support,	fun,	and	incentive.	It’s	always	nice	to	have	someone	else
around,	especially	if	he	or	she	is	at	about	the	same	level	you	are.	A	little
companionship,	help,	and	reassurance	make	anything	go	easier	and
faster,	and	swimming	together	can	do	wonders	for	a	relationship.	Instead
of	a	night	on	the	town,	try	a	Saturday	night	at	the	pool!
As	a	Guide	to	Help	You	Teach	Others
.	Swimming	instructors,	my
fellow	Masters	fitness	swimmers,	and	students	alike	have	asked	me	to
write	a	book	for	years.	(Stop	bothering	me	already.)	Here	it	is!
This	book	takes	a	careful,	step-by-step	approach	to	swimming	and
fitness.	Each	lesson	or	workout	builds	the	skills	you’ve	acquired	in	the
previous	one.	I	indicate	which	skills	and	what	level	of	fitness	you	should
bring	with	you	to	each	level;	you	can	find	the	place	that’s	best	for	you	to
begin	the	program.	Similarly,	you	can	progress	as	far	as	you	want.	I	do
recommend,	though,	that	no	matter	what	level	of	swimming	or	fitness
you	
think
	you’re	at	you:
at	least	review	“The	Fundamentals	of	Swimming”
end	your	program	no	sooner	than	Level	10	of	the	Intermediate
Phase
consider	progressing	to	the	Advanced	Phase	and	at	least	look	at
the	chapter	on	Super	Workouts!
Part	One,	“The	Fundamentals	of	Swimming,”	consists	of	ten	lessons.
The	first	lesson	goes	right	to	the	heart	of	the	matter	by	teaching	you	how
to	exhale	underwater	comfortably.	This	is	the	mainstay	of	swimming
well	and	the	one	thing	that	most	people—even	those	who	know	the
basics—have	trouble	with.	The	lessons	in	this	section	then	go	on	to	teach
you	the	basic	prone	and	supine	swimming	skills,	as	well	as	how	to	dive.
So	begin	here,	even	if	you	were	the	star	sprinter	for	your	high	school	or
college	swim	team.	Your	strokes	might	have	become	a	bit	sloppy,	your
memory	of	the	finer	points	a	bit	shaky;	your	endurance	might	have
dropped	way	off;	or	you	may	have	been	doing	something	incorrectly	all
along.	Experienced	swimmers	can	probably	zip	right	through	this
section.	If	you	can,	you	won’t	have	to	spend	much	time	on	it.	And	if	you
can’t,	it	means	it’s	a	good	thing	you	began	here.
The	lessons	in	this	first	section	are	also	mini-workouts,	designed	to
improve	gradually	your	fitness	level	along	with	your	skills.	Each	one
becomes	progressively	more	strenuous	than	the	last,	so	that	once	you’re
through	with	the	fundamentals	you’re	ready	to	follow	the	workouts,
which	pick	up	where	the	fundamentals	left	off.	These	workout	programs
have	four	phases—Beginners,	Intermediate,	Advanced,	and	a	special
section	of	Super	Workouts	that	has	training	tips	and	high-caliber
workouts	similar	to	the	ones	that	competitive	swimmers	use	to	get	into
tiptop	shape.	The	workouts	gradually	bring	your	distance	up	to	300
yards	or	meters	(almost	a	quarter	mile)	for	Beginners;	1,000	yards	or
meters	(over	a	half	mile)	for	Intermediates;	1,800	yards	or	meters	(over
a	mile)	for	Advanced	swimmers;	and	finally	3,000	yards	or	meters
(almost	two	miles)	for	Super	swimmers—while	they	expand	your
repertoire	of	swimming	skills.
W
ATER
,	W
ATER
	E
VERYWHERE
As	for	
where
	to	swim,	there	are	facilities	all	over	the	place—if	you	look.
The	last	time	the	National	Spa	and	Pool	Institute	took	a	count	(in
1991)	there	were	a	total	of	almost	three	and	a	half	million	outdoor	in-
ground	pools	in	the	United	States,	and	nearly	three	million	outdoor
above-ground	pools.	And	that’s	not	counting	innumerable	indoor	pools
and	natural	bodies	of	water—oceans,	rivers,	lakes,	ponds,	streams,	bays,
and	in	quarries—that	are	just	begging	for	you	to	jump	in	and	have	a
good	time.	As	to	
when
	to	swim,	you	can	do	it	summer,	winter,	all	year
round.
If	you	prefer	a	pool	(which	I	recommend	for	learning,	practicing,	and
most	workouts),	you’ll	find	that	most	facilities	have	low	fees.	Many
localities	maintain	public	pools	that	charge	nominal	fees,	if	any.	Call	the
local	Y,	school	board,	community	center,	parks	and	recreation
department,	community	colleges,	universities,	or	continuing	education
programs.	Or	you	might	prefer	to	join	one	of	the	growing	number	of
private	health	clubs	and	“spas”	where	you	can	enjoy	steam	rooms,
saunas,	massage,	and	other	exercise	facilities.
If	you’re	an	advanced	swimmer,	try	to	work	out	with	a	local	swim
club,	team,	or	Y,	with	an	understanding	coach.	If	you’re	interested,	call
your	local	Masters	swimming	office.	Often,	they’ll	help	you	locate	swim
teams	and	coaches.	In	addition,	articles	in	swim	magazines	are	often
helpful	in	locating	this	information.
F
INDING	THE
	T
IME
To	derive	the	most	benefit,	you	should	exercise	at	least	three	times	a
week	for	approximately	thirty	minutes	each	time.	I	can	hear	the
complaints	now:	“But	I	don’t	have	that	much	time!”	Take	it	from	me,	if
you	want	to	swim	and	reap	the	benefits,	you’ll	find	the	time.	Rearrange
your	priorities.	I	know	people	who	get	up	early	and	join	a	workout
before	they	run	off	to	put	in	a	whole	day’s	work.	Believe	me,	you’ll	feel
better	the	whole	day	through!	If	you	can	persuade	your	friends	or	family
to	join	you,	so	much	the	better.
As	to	what	time	of	day	to	swim,	that	depends	on	you.	I	usually	swim
in	the	morning,	and	whether	you’re	doing	workouts	or	learning	the
fundamentals,	you	might	like	to	start	the	day	this	way	too.	Others	prefer
to	swim	during	their	lunch	break—what	a	great	way	to	recharge	your
batteries	for	the	afternoon!	Still	others	find	that	the	best	time	for	them	is
after	work,	since	exercise	helps	you	unwind	from	daily	pressures.	If	you
don’t	work	nine	to	five,	you	can	visit	the	pool	during	the	late	morning	or
early	afternoon,	when	it’s	often	less	crowded.	You	can	even	swim	late	at
night	as	a	way	to	relax	before	going	to	bed.	Some	people	find	late	night
swimming	too	stimulating,	but	others,	especially	after	whirlpool	or	hot
shower,	are	ready	to	drift	off	into	a	sound	sleep.
I
T’S
	B
ETTER	TO
	B
E
	S
AFE
Before	starting	this	or	any	exercise	program,	even	at	a	beginning	level,
it’s	a	good	idea	to	check	first	with	your	doctor	and,	at	his	or	her
discretion,	perhaps	have	a	complete	physical	examination.	This	is
especially	important	if	you	are	in	your	middle	years	and	have	been
getting	no	regular	exercise.	On	the	other	hand,	whatever	your	age,	once
your	doctor	gives	you	the	go-ahead,	you	can	look	forward	to	a	regular
swimming	program	knowing	that	this	is	an	ageless	activity—one	in
which	you	can	participate	virtually	all	your	life.	It	is	a	lifetime
investment	with	increasing	dividends.
A
NY
	Q
UESTIONS
?
If	you	have	any	questions	or	problems	as	you	go	through	the	program,
turn	to	“Dr.	J’s	Q’s	&	A’s”	on	
this	page
.	In	that	chapter,	I	answer	those
questions	that	swimmers	ask	most	often.	Or	you	can	write	to	me	in	care
of	the	publisher.
P
ART	ONE
THE	FUNDAMENTALS
OF	SWIMMING
	
A
ll	good	swimming	begins	with	a	firm	grasp	of	the	basic	water	skills.	If
you’ve	never	swum	before,	or	have	had	only	a	smattering	of	experience,
this	section	is	a	must.	Even	if	you	feel	you	know	the	basics,	you’ll	benefit
from	reviewing	them.	You	may	or	may	not	learn	something	new,	but
you’ll	definitely	be	able	to	clean	up	your	act.
This	section	consists	of	ten	lessons.	Each	lesson	has	two	main	parts
—“Dry-Land/Prep	Skills”	and	“Water	Skills.”	Everything	you	do	in	the
water	you	will	first	have	practiced—and	mastered—on	land.	Once	the
dry-land	exercises	have	become	second	nature,	you’ll	move	on	to	the
water	skills.	As	you	will	see,	it’s	not	that	difficult	to	take	skills	that
you’ve	acquired	on	land	and	transfer	them	to	another	medium.
W
ARM
-U
PS
,	C
OOL
-D
OWNS
,	H
OMEWORK
You	begin	each	water	session	with	the	warm-up,	which	includes	a	pool-
side	review	of	the	dry-land/prep	skills	and	basic	water	exercises.	The
warm-up	is	an	important	aspect	of	every	lesson,	since	it	gradually
prepares	both	your	mind	and	your	body	for	what’s	to	come.	It	gets	your
blood	moving	and	your	breath	going,	and	it	makes	the	water	feel	more
inviting.
Each	lesson	also	includes	a	cool-down	after	each	swim.	Like	a	warm-
up	in	reverse,	a	cool-down	lets	your	metabolism	slow	back	down
gradually,	which	is	the	way	your	body	prefers	to	do	things.
The	water-skills	part	of	each	lesson	includes	a	section	called
“Homework,”	which	lets	you	review	your	newly	acquired	skills	at	home
after	you’ve	had	a	chance	to	practice	them	in	the	water.	If	you’re	using
the	“buddy”	system,	it’s	a	good	idea	to	do	your	homework	together	too.
T
AKE
	I
T
	E
ASY

Go	slowly	at	first,	and	be	sure	to	practice	every	step.	If	you’re	a
beginning,	this	advice	will	be	easy	to	follow.	Not	so	for	the	experienced
swimmer	…	but	even	if	you	know	the	basics,	don’t	skip	over	and	don’t
skip	around.	Review	the	skills	in	each	lesson,	going	through	them	all,
one	by	one.	Even	if	you’re	sure	you	already	know	a	particular	skill,
review	it—you	may	be	surprised	to	discover	that	you’ve	learned	it
incorrectly	or	that	you	can	improve	upon	what	you	already	know.	And,
as	you	go	through	the	program,	you’ll	notice	an	increase	in	your	energy
and	endurance,	as	well	as	your	ability.
H
ELP
The	basic	“swim	aid”	you’ll	be	using	during	this	program	is	a	kickboard
(and	even	that’s	optional).	Many	pools	don’t	allow	devices	of	any	kind,
and	besides,	they’re	an	expense,	and	they	can	be	a	nuisance	to	carry
around.	I	also	feel	that	beginning	swimmers	can	become	too	dependent
on	flotation	devices.	However,	if	you	like	it	and	only	rely	on	it
temporarily	to	get	you	through	a	particularly	stubborn	phase,	by	all
means	use	one.	Just	realize	that,	at	some	point,	it’ll	have	to	go.	And	once
you’ve	mastered	the	basics,	there	are	several	pieces	of	equipment,	such
as	swim	fins,	that	I	do	recommend	to	help	you	master	other	strokes	and
to	fine-tune	your	technique.
H
OW
	L
ONG?
	H
OW
	O
FTEN?
It’s	up	to	you.	Unless	you’re	the	type	of	person	who	needs	to	set	up	a
real	schedule,	just	repeat	each	lesson—or	the	most	troublesome	parts	of
it—until	you’ve	mastered	each	skill.	Just	keep	practicing	at	your	own
pace	until	you	feel	confident	enough	to	take	the	next	step.	There	are	no
schedules	to	follow	here,	no	class	bells	to	signal	that	it’s	time	to	stop.
Do	the	dry-land/prep	skills	as	often	as	possible—while	watching	TV,
talking	on	the	phone,	as	a	substitute	coffee	break,	even	when	you’re
taking	a	bath—any	time	you	think	of	it.	You’re	on	dry	land	most	of	the
time,	but	in	this	program	that’s	no	excuse	for	not	practicing	your
swimming	skills.	The	better	you	become	at	doing	something	
out
	of	the
water,	the	better	you’ll	do	
in
	the	water.	(And,	incidentally,	it	also	means
not	having	to	refer	to	this	book	while	you’re	pool-side.)
As	for	the	water	skills:	try	to	get	into	the	water	at	least	once	a	week.	If
possible,	go	three	times	a	week;	every	other	day	is	ideal	for	most	people.
The	more	you’re	in	the	water,	the	faster	you’ll	progress.	The	duration	of
each	session	depends	on	your	ambition,	energy,	comfort,	and	daily
schedule.	In	general,	though,	I	recommend	that	you	go	through	the
entire	lesson	the	first	time.	This	should	keep	you	in	the	water	about
thirty	minutes.	After	that,	you	needn’t	go	through	the	whole	lesson	every
time.	Instead,	you	can	practice	just	the	particular	skill	or	skills	that	you
feel	need	the	most	work;	and	this	might	take	only	five,	ten,	or	fifteen
minutes	of	your	time.
L
ET
	T
HERE
	B
E
	M
USIC
You	might	find	it	helpful	(if	it	doesn’t	disturb	others)	to	bring	a	radio	or
a	tape	player	along	to	the	pool,	so	that	you	can	play	your	favorite	music
while	you	warm	up,	or	maybe	even	during	your	lesson.	This	helps	to
create	a	relaxed,	familiar	atmosphere	that’s	energizing	at	the	same	time.
Swimming,	when	done	correctly,	is	almost	like	dancing	in	the	water,
because	you’re	moving	gracefully	and	rhythmically.	To	do	that,	you
need	to	be	fully	relaxed—that’s	the	whole	key	to	successful	swimming.
At	some	pools,	in	fact,	you’ll	find	music	already	piped	in.
You	should	feel	comfortable	in	the	water.	Once	you’ve	achieved	that,
everything	else	will	follow	easily	and	naturally.	So	do	whatever	you	can
to	help	you	to	relax.	If	you	find	yourself	feeling	tense,	tell	yourself	to
loosen	up.	Try	not	to	fight	your	body’s	natural	buoyancy.	My	years	of
teaching	have	taught	me	this	over	and	over	again:	your	most	powerful—
and	sometimes	troublesome—“muscle”	is	your	brain.	Once	your	mind	is
on	your	side,	the	rest	will	come	in	time.
If	you	can’t	do	the	strokes	exactly	as	described,	that’s	okay.	Your	body
may	not	have	the	flexibility	required,	and	this	will	probably	improve	the
more	you	practice	and	loosen	up.	Just	do	the	best	you	can,	following	the
text	and	pictures	as	closely	as	possible,	and	remember,	there’s	always
room	for	individuality.	Even	in	the	world	of	competitive	swimming,	no
two	swimmers	move	exactly	alike.
Above	all,	have	a	positive	outlook.	
TRY!
	If	you’re	hesitant	about
learning	a	new	skill,	just	give	yourself	a	chance.	Millions	of	people	have
done	it	before.	So	can	you.	And	you’ll	have	fun!
L
ESSON	1
T
his	is	among	the	most	important	lessons	in	the	book,	because	it
establishes	the	groundwork	on	which	all	the	others	are	based.	In	this
lesson,	you’ll	begin	to	learn	how	to	breathe	correctly,	how	to	enter	the
pool	safely,	how	to	feel	comfortable	in	the	water,	and	how	to	bob	and
flutter	kick.
D
RY
-L
AND
/P
REP
	S
KILLS
This	lesson	begins	by	teaching	you	how	to	overcome	what,	for	many
people—regardless	of	their	swimming	ability—is	the	biggest	stumbling
block	of	all:	incorrect	breathing.
Breathing
Begin	by	sitting	up	straight.	Inhale,	expanding	your	lungs	fully.	Then
exhale.
Remember	how	it	feels	to	have	your	lungs	really	full—they	should	feel
this	way	every	time	you	take	a	breath	in	the	water.	As	you	do	the
following	exercises,	try	to	think	about	nothing	except	your	mouth	and
nose,	isolating	them	from	the	rest	of	your	body.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
The	Mouth:
	Pinch	your	nostrils	shut.	Purse	your	lips	and	inhale
strongly	through	your	mouth—pretend	you’re	drinking	through	a	straw.
Then,	keeping	your	lips	pursed,	exhale	just	as	strongly	through	your
mouth,	as	though	you’re	cooling	off	a	cup	of	hot	coffee.	Hold	a	hand	in
front	of	your	mouth	to	feel	the	expelled	air.	Repeat	this	ten	times,
breathing	as	deeply	as	you	can.
The	Nose:
	Cover	your	mouth	and	inhale	deeply	through	your	nose,	as
though	you	were	smelling	your	favorite	food	cooking.	Then	exhale	once
again,	expelling	the	air	hard—as	if	there’s	too	much	pepper	in	the	dish
and	you	now	need	to	sneeze.	Repeat	this	ten	times,	each	time	breathing
as	deeply	as	you	can.
Now	inhale	deeply	through	both	your	nose	and	your	mouth.	Although
you	may	be	inhaling	more	through	your	mouth,	use	your	nasal	passage
as	well.	Exhale	strongly.	Begin	by	pretending	that	you’re	cooling	off	that
coffee	with	your	mouth	first	and	then	continue	to	sneeze	from	the
pepper	at	the	same	time.	Repeat	this	ten	times.
All	this	deep	breathing	may	make	you	a	little	lightheaded.	That’s
because	you’re	getting	more	oxygen	than	you	really	need	(in	other
words,	you’re	hyperventilating).	Don’t	worry,	though—you	won’t	get
that	same	dizziness	in	the	water,	because	your	body	will	be	using	the
extra	oxygen.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Make	your	inhale/exhale	cycles	as	strong,	even,	and	continuous	as
possible;	try	to	get	to	the	point	where	you	can	maintain	an	even	stream
of	air	for	fifteen	seconds.	But	build	up	to	it	gradually—you	may	find	it
harder	than	it	sounds.
All	new	swimmers	worry	that	the	water	will	go	into	their	mouths	and
noses.	But	remember	this:	the	air	flow	you	create	when	you	blow	out
through	both	your	nose	and	your	mouth	makes	it	physically	impossible
for	the	water	to	go	up	your	breathing	passages.	As	long	as	you’re
breathing	air	
out
,	no	water	can	get	
in
.
In	the	water,	the	nose	is	especially	important.	Most	people	will
naturally	exhale	through	the	mouth	underwater,	but	too	many	people
don’t	exhale	properly	out	the	nose	at	the	same	time,	and	as	a	result	the
nasal	passages	tend	to	be	a	perpetual	problem.	Therefore,	be	especially
aware	of	utilizing	your	nose	as	you	do	these	breathing	exercises.
If	you	have	trouble	exhaling	through	both	nose	and	mouth
simultaneously,	begin	by	exhaling	through	your	mouth	alone	for	a
second,	before	joining	it	with	the	nose.	If	
that
	isn’t	comfortable,	try	the
reverse	order—first	the	nose	for	a	second,	then	nose	and	mouth	together.
The	main	difference	between	your	normal	breathing	and	your
breathing	while	swimming	is	in	the	volume	of	air	that	you	take	in	and
blow	out.	
Normally,	you	breathe	very	shallowly,	using	only	a	fraction	of
your	total	lung	capacity.	But	when	you’re	swimming,	you’ll	inhale	very
deeply	when	your	face	is	out	of	the	water,	through	both	your	nose	and
your	mouth.	And	when	your	head	is	under	the	water,	you’ll	blow	out
hard,	also	through	both	nose	and	mouth,	creating	that	protective	air
flow	as	you	do	so.
These	exercises	are	also	the	first	step	in	building	up	your
cardiovascular	endurance.	As	you	take	these	deep	breaths	now,	you’re
also	strengthening	and	expanding	your	chest	muscles	and	developing
your	lungs,	which	will	help	you	later	on	in	the	water.	Remember,	even	if
you	know	how	to	swim,	if	your	breathing	isn’t	comfortable,	you	can’t	go
very	far—your	swimming	will	be	limited	to	only	a	few	minutes.
Breathing
The	next	step	is	to	get	your	face	wet	up	to	your	hairline—and	put	that
air	flow	to	work.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Fill	a	large	container	with	water.	You	can	use	anything—a	big	bowl,	a
large	pot,	your	kitchen	or	bathroom	sink,	or	even	a	bathtub.
Lean	forward	and	just	barely	touch	your	chin	to	the	surface	of	the
water.	Inhale,	taking	a	deep	breath,	using	both	your	nose	and	your
mouth.	Exhale	through	both	your	nose	and	your	mouth,	and	watch	the
water.	Ripples	should	form	on	the	surface.	If	the	water	remains	still,
exhale	harder	next	time.	Repeat	this	ten	times,	making	sure	that	the
water	moves	each	time.	If	you’re	practicing	with	a	buddy,	check	each
other	to	make	sure	you’re	breathing	correctly.
Next,	inhale	through	your	nose	and	mouth	together.	Then	put	just
your	nose	and	mouth	in	the	water,	and	exhale	through	both	your	nose
and	mouth,	strongly,	just	as	you	did	to	make	the	ripples.	Bubbles	will
form,	indicating	that	you	are	forming	the	air	flow	mentioned	earlier.
You	should	be	able	to	see,	hear,	and	feel	them.	As	soon	as	you	run	out	of
air	to	exhale,	life	your	nose	and	mouth	out	of	the	water	and	inhale
deeply.	Do	this	ten	more	times	without	stopping.
Finally,	put	your	whole	face	in	the	water.	You	can	keep	your	eyes
open	or	closed	for	now.	Repeat	the	inhale/exhale	exercise	ten	times,
inhaling	deeply	and	exhaling	as	strongly	as	you	can.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
To	get	rid	of	the	excess	water	between	dunkings,	wipe	your	face	with
your	hand,	sweeping	the	water	from	the	top	of	your	forehead	down	to
your	
chin.	At	this	point,	you	might	want	to	have	a	towel	handy,	just	in
case,	before	you	start	the	water	breathing	exercises.
During	your	breathing	cycle,	especially	during	exhalation,	try	to
release	any	tensions	you	may	have	and	try	to	induce	the	feeling	of	total
relaxation.	Let	your	muscles	relax	and	go	limp.
This	basic	inhale/exhale	sequence	is	exactly	what	you	will	be	doing	in
the	pool.	That’s	all	there	is	to	it.	As	you	have	seen,	it’s	fundamentally	a
matter	of	breathing	the	way	you	normally	do—you’re	just	taking	more
conscious	control	and	doing	it	more	forcefully.
Flutter	Kicking
There	are	several	other	beginning	exercises	you	can	do	at	home.	One	of
the	most	important	is	the	flutter	kick,	which	is	the	basic	leg	motion	for
both	the	crawl	stroke	and	the	backstroke.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Sit	on	the	edge	of	a	chair	or	couch,	letting	your	heels	rest	on	the	floor.
Stretch	your	legs	straight	out	in	front	of	you,	parallel	to	the	floor,	toes
pointed	downward,	yet	keeping	your	ankles	relaxed	and	floppy.	Lean
back	and	support	yourself	with	your	arms	on	the	back	of	the	chair	or
couch.	Now	move	your	legs	alternately	up	and	down	as	though	you	were
a	wooden	soldier.	Keep	your	legs	straight	but	your	ankles	loose	and
relaxed.	The	important	thing	is	to	kick	with	the	entire	leg,	with	the
power	from	the	hip	and	thigh,	keeping	the	knees	relatively	straight.
Repeat	this	twenty	times,	counting	once	for	each	leg	change.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
You	may	find	this	difficult	to	do,	especially	if	you	have	not	been
exercising	regularly.	If	you	experience	a	little	muscle	soreness	in	your
abdomen	and	upper	legs	following	this	exercise,	the	important	thing	is
to	keep	practicing,	since	this	will	actually	help	to	alleviate	any	soreness
or	tightness	in	the	water.	Flutter	kick	while	you’re	waiting	for	your	hair
to	dry,	the	butter	to	melt,	the	phone	to	ring.	Do	it	while	watching	TV—
especially	during	the	commercials,	when	you	might	be	in	the	habit	of
rushing	to	the	kitchen	for	another	bowl	of	potato	chips!
Gradually	work	up	from	twenty	kicks,	building	up	to	a	set	of	one
hundred	or	more	kicks,	and	repeat.	You’ll	be	amazed	at	how	soon	your
condition	will	improve.
Remember:
	Keep	your	knees	straight.	Watch	them.	If	they	still	bend,
wrap	a	ribbon	or	a	piece	of	fabric,	a	towel	or	an	Ace	bandage	around
each	of	them	to	help	remind	you	to	keep	them	straight.
	
BENEFITS
As	with	the	breathing	exercises,	this	is	substantially	what	you’ll	be	doing
in	the	water.	Practice	on	dry	land	familiarizes	you	with	the	kick	and
starts	strengthening	the	muscles	you	need	to	do	it.
Flutter	Kicking	and	Breathing
Once	you’re	satisfied	with	your	progress	doing	the	breathing	and	kicking
exercises	separately,	you’re	ready	to	combine	them.	Of	course,	you	were
breathing	before	while	you	were	kicking—now	it’s	just	a	matter	of
combining	them	consciously.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Sitting	on	the	edge	of	a	chair,	flutter	kick	with	your	legs	straight,	as
before.	Inhale	and	exhale	strongly	through	your	nose	and	mouth
together,	as	you	did	with	your	face	in	the	water.	Try	to	think	only	about
the	kicking	and	the	breathing.	Don’t	worry	about	how	many	kicks	per
breath	you’re	taking.	As	long	as	both	are	continuous	and	together,	you’re
doing	fine.	Do	this	for	thirty	seconds.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
When	combining	the	breathing	and	kicking	skills,	keep	the	legs	straight
and	breathe	rhythmically.
	
BENEFITS
You	will	be	combining	these	skills	in	the	water,	and	the	more	you
practice	on	land,	the	easier	the	transition	will	be.	You	are	also	building
up	your	leg	and	abdominal	muscles,	as	well	as	the	breathing	capacity
you’ll	need	once	you	start	to	swim.
Bobbing
The	next	skill	is	bobbing,	which	is	similar	to	a	knee	bend.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Stand	up	and	put	both	hands	on	a	piece	of	furniture	about	waist	high	in
front	of	you.	Bend	at	the	knees	ten	times,	keeping	your	upper	body
straight.	Then	hold	on,	with	your	right	hand	only,	to	bob	another	five
times.	Repeat	five	more	times	while	holding	on	with	only	your	left	hand.
Finally,	bob	ten	more	times	while	not	holding	on	at	all.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Take	care	to	keep	your	back	straight	and	your	weight	distributed	evenly
on	both	feet.	Increase	the	depth	of	your	bobs	from	a	half	to	a	full	knee
bend	(if	your	knees	are	sensitive,	keep	your	bends	shallow).	Keep	your
back	straight,	with	shoulder	blades	back.
	
BENEFITS
This	helps	tone	the	quadriceps	muscles	in	the	front	of	the	thigh,	as	well
as	the	gastronemous,	or	calf	muscle.	Later,	you’ll	be	bobbing	in	the	pool
to	help	acclimate	your	body	to	the	water	temperature,	and	to	practice
your	breathing.	Depending	upon	your	physical	condition,	it	may	also
begin	to	increase	your	cardiovascular	efficiency.
Bobbing	and	Breathing
Now	it’s	time	to	combine	bobbing	and	breathing.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Hold	on	to	the	same	piece	of	furniture	with	both	hands,	as	before.	Inhale
deeply	through	both	your	nose	and	mouth	as	you’re	standing	tall.	Exhale
strongly	when	you	bend	your	knees.	Repeat	this	ten	times.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Go	slowly	so	that	you	can	concentrate	on	inhaling	as	you’re	standing	and
exhaling	as	you’re	bending.	If	you	have	a	partner,	join	hands	and
alternate	your	inhaling	(up)	and	exhaling	(down),	in	a	seesaw	motion,	so
that	you	can	check	each	other.
W
ATER
	S
KILLS
The	time	has	come	to	put	your	newly	acquired	skills	to	practice	in	the
water.	At	this	point,	you	may	want	to	pick	up	a	pair	of	goggles	(see	
this
page
)	if	your	eyes	are	sensitive	to	chlorine,	if	you	wear	contact	lenses,	or
if	
you	just	want	to	see	better.	And	this	is	a	good	time	to	remind	you
never	to	go	into	the	water	unless	there’s	another	person	around,	and	to
stay	in	the	shallow	water	until	you’re	sure	of	your	ability	to	swim	in
deeper	water.
The	Warm-up
It’s	a	good	idea	to	warm	up	the	muscles	in	your	body	before	you	get	into
the	water.	These	edge-of-the-pool	or	warm-up/prep	skills	help	get	your
muscles	ready	for	the	“real	stuff”	that	follows.
	
BREATHING
Begin	by	sitting	on	the	edge	of	the	pool	or	deck,	at	the	shallow	end.	Let
your	feet	dangle	in	the	water.	Start	the	breathing	exercises	you	did	at
home,	using	both	the	nose	and	mouth.	Repeat	this	breathing	cycle	ten
times,	putting	a	hand	in	front	of	your	face	to	make	sure	you	are	exhaling
strongly	enough.
	
FLUTTER	KICKING
Breathing	normally,	do	the	same	flutter	kick	you	did	while	sitting	on
your	couch.	Remember:	knees	straight,	the	power	of	the	kick	coming
from	the	hips	and	thighs,	ankles	loose	and	relaxed.	Move	your	legs
alternately	up	and	down.	Kick	at	least	twenty	times,	counting	one	for
each	leg.
Flutter	kicking	on	the	pool	deck
.
	
FLUTTER	KICKING	AND	BREATHING
Now	combine	the	two,	as	you	did	at	home,	kicking	alternately,	and
inhaling	and	exhaling	forcefully.	Do	this	for	about	one	minute.
Bobbing
To	help	you	adjust	to	the	water,	splash	some	over	your	arms,	shoulders,
face,	and	legs.	First	sit	on	the	edge	of	the	pool;	then	enter	the	water.
Place	your	right	hand	next	to	you	on	the	deck	and	bring	your	left	hand
around	and	place	it	next	to	the	right,	rotating	your	body	around	to	the
right	180	degrees.	Continue	this	half	turn	to	the	right	while	letting	your
legs	touch	the	pool	bottom	and	your	body	slide	smoothly	into	the	water.
You	should	find	yourself	facing	the	side	of	the	pool,	with	both	hands	still
holding	on	to	the	edge	for	safety.	Of	course,	you	could	also	turn	to	the
left,	if	you	find	that	more	comfortable.
Bobbing	and	breathing
.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
After	you’ve	entered	the	pool,	immediately	start	bobbing	up	and	down,
just	as	you	did	on	land.	Hold	on	to	the	edge	of	the	pool	with	both	hands
at	first	and	bob	up	and	down	five	times.	Then	hold	on	with	just	your	left
hand	and	bob	another	five	times.	Switch	hands	and	bob	again,	gradually
deepening	your	bends	until	your	chin	touches	the	water.	If	you’re
practicing	these	skills	with	a	partner,	face	each	other	and	join	hands.
Then	the	two	of	you	should	bob	up	and	down	alternately,	like	a	seesaw.
Do	ten	bobs,	shaking	right	hands;	then	another	ten	with	left	hands
joined.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
As	you	bend	down,	exhale	deeply	and	be	aware	of	how	the	water	feels—
its	buoyancy	will	help	support	you	later.	Relax	and	enjoy	the	water.
Even	if	you’re	already	a	swimmer,	this	bobbing	motion	will	help	your
body	adjust	to	the	temperature	change.
	
BENEFITS
Bobbing	will	continue	to	strengthen	your	quadriceps	(thigh)	and	calf
muscles.	As	you	bob,	feel	the	slight	resistance	of	the	water;	feel	its
buoyancy	and	how	much	lighter	you	seem	to	be	than	on	dry	land.	If	you
noticed	any	feeling	of	discomfort	doing	this	exercise	on	dry	land,	it	will
disappear	when	you	bob	in	the	water:	the	extra	support	will	be	evident
in	all	the	dry-land	exercises	you	transfer	to	the	water.	You’ll	soon	learn
to	love	the	delicious	feeling	of	having	water	all	around	you.
Breathing
Let’s	go	back	to	the	breathing.	You’ll	be	doing	the	same	thing	you	did	in
your	sink,	bowl,	or	bathtub—but	this	time	in	the	pool.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Return	to	the	wall	of	the	pool.	Once	more,	review	the	breathing	skills
you	learned	on	dry	land;	inhale	very	slowly	and	deeply	as	if	you	were
yawning,	then	exhale	forcefully,	as	if	to	cool	off	that	cup	of	coffee.	Try
to	release	the	air	fully	each	time.	Repeat	five	breathing	cycles.	Next,	put
your	chin	on	the	surface	of	the	water,	and	inhale	and	exhale	as	you	did
at	home,	forming	ripples	on	the	surface	of	the	water.	Repeat	five	more
cycles.	Holding	on	to	the	edge	of	the	pool,	put	your	chin	on	the	water.
Inhale	and,	as	you	exhale,	tip	your	head	a	little	so	just	your	nose	and
mouth	go	below	the	
water’s	surface.	Remember,	you	should	be	forming
air	bubbles	just	the	way	you	did	at	home	in	your	sink.	Repeat	five	times,
putting	your	head	down	a	little	deeper	into	the	water	each	time.	Take	a
break;	then	repeat	five	more	times.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Try	to	inhale	fully	and	deeply.	While	exhaling,	allow	your	body	to	go
limp.	Make	sure	you	don’t	cheat:	put	your	whole	face	into	the	water,	not
just	the	tip	of	your	nose.	If	you	have	trouble	anywhere	along	the	way
(coughing	or	choking),	stop	and	go	back	to	an	earlier	part	of	the	exercise
until	it	feels	comfortable.	Most	people	have	to	exhale	out	their	noses
more	forcefully	than	out	their	mouths	because	their	nasal	passages	are
smaller.	If	you	have	a	sinus	condition,	it	may	be	even	harder.	But	it’s
still	important	to	exhale	and	create	an	air	flow	that	keeps	the	water	out.
	
BENEFITS
Feeling	comfortable	exhaling	underwater	is	the	first	step	in	a	successful
swimming	program.	Everything	you’ve	done	thus	far	has	been	in
preparation	for	this	skill.	Swimming,	remember,	is	an	aerobic	exercise,
so	breathing—deeply,	regularly,	and	comfortably—is	basic.	If	you	begin
to	feel	dizzy,	you’re	breathing	too	fast	and	too	deeply	(hyperventilating);
if	you	feel	tired,	you’re	not	breathing	deeply	enough	(working
anaerobically).
Bobbing	and	Breathing
You’re	ready	to	combine	the	two	skills	you’ve	just	practiced	separately—
bobbing	and	breathing.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Hold	on	to	the	edge	of	the	pool	and,	bending	your	knees,	jump	up	and
down	very	slowly,	putting	your	whole	face	underwater	and	exhaling
forcefully.	Do	this	five	times,	very	slowly.	Next,	as	you	bob,	try	opening
your	eyes	underwater.	Open	one	eye	just	slightly	at	first,	then	the	other,
then	both.	Repeat	five	more	times.
If	you’re	working	with	a	partner,	join	hands	and	bob	in	the	same
seesaw	motion	as	before.	Begin	bobbing	with	your	eyes	closed,	then	with
them	open.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Don’t	forget	to	inhale	above	water	and	exhale	underwater	to	form
bubbles.	Gradually	open	your	eyes	wider	and	wider.	Try	to	feel,	hear,
and	see	the	bubbles	each	time.
	
BENEFITS
Bobbing	will	help	you	adjust	to	the	water.
Flutter	Kicking	on	the	Wall
Now	we’ll	move	on	to	another	skill—kicking.	Let’s	get	that	water
churning!	Work	that	body!
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Supine
	
(
Face-up
)
	
Position:
	Stand	with	your	back	to	the	wall	of	the
pool.	Bend	your	knees	until	the	water	reaches	your	shoulders.	Reach
back	with	both	hands	over	your	shoulders	and	grasp	the	edge	of	the
pool.	Keeping	your	elbows	down	and	next	to	your	side	for	leverage,	lift
your	legs	up	close	to	the	surface	of	the	water	and	do	the	same	flutter
kick	you	did	on	land.	Kick	thirty	times,	counting	once	for	each	leg
motion.	To	return	to	a	standing	position,	bend	at	the	hips,	as	if	you	were
about	to	sit	down	in	a	chair.	When	your	hips	touch	the	wall,	lower	your
feet	until	they	touch	bottom,	then	let	go	with	your	hands.
Supine	flutter	kick
.
Prone	(Face-down)	Position:
	Turn	around	and	face	the	wall	of	the
pool.	Hold	on	to	the	edge	with	one	hand.	Press	the	other	against	the
wall,	under	the	surface	of	the	water,	with	your	fingers	facing	down	(this
is	the	“bracket	position”).	Pull	with	the	top	arm	and	push	with	the
bottom,	
keeping	both	arms	straight	for	leverage,	and	lift	your	legs	up
behind	you	as	close	to	the	surface	of	the	water	as	possible.	Now	do	the
same	flutter	kick	you	did	before—legs	straight,	moving	up	and	down
alternately	thirty	times.	Once	that	feels	comfortable,	add	your	breathing.
Inhale	deeply,	then	put	your	face	into	the	water	and	exhale	strongly.
Lowering	your	head	into	the	water	will	allow	you	to	bring	your	legs	up
just	below	the	water	surface—this	is	just	the	beginning	of	good
swimming	form.
Prone	flutter	kick	in	the	bracket	position
.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Make	sure	you	stay	relaxed	and	that	your	legs	are	straight	but	not	stiff.
Watch	out	for	“bicycle	riding”	(i.e.,	bending	your	knees	too	much).	Try
to	relax	your	ankles,	too—it’s	the	same	flexing	action	as	when	you’re
walking.	The	trick	here	is	to	make	the	water	bubble	as	though	it	were
boiling.	If	your	feet	make	a	significant	splash,	you’re	overkicking.
Kick	from	the	hip	and	thigh.	If	your	legs	seem	to	sink,	you	are
probably	“piking”—bending	at	the	hips.	Try	arching	your	back—your
legs	will	automatically	move	closer	to	the	surface.
As	you’re	kicking,	keep	Newton’s	third	law	of	motion	in	mind:	for
every	action,	there	is	an	equal	and	opposite	reaction.	In	other	words,	for
you	to	move	
forward
,	you	have	to	move	water	
backward
.	If	you	kick	with
your	legs	up	too	high,	you’re	moving	mostly	air,	not	water.	It	may	look
impressive,	but	it’s	actually	a	waste	of	energy	and	won’t	take	you	very
far.	On	the	other	hand,	if	you	kick	with	your	legs	too	low	in	the	water,
you’re	propelling	your	body	vertically,	not	horizontally.	As	a	result,	you
don’t	move	efficiently	through	the	water	that	way,	either.
You	may	have	to	experiment	a	bit	to	find	the	most	comfortable	way	of
holding	on	to	the	pool	edge.	If	may	be	a	little	rough	on	your	arms	and
hands	at	first,	until	you	build	up	their	strength.	Always	shake	them	out
when	you’re	through	practicing.	For	supine	kicking,	you	might	try
stretching	your	arms	along	the	wall,	with	your	head	resting	on	it.	If
possible,	use	the	corner	of	the	pool	for	this.	Try	as	many	ways	as
circumstances	allow,	until	you	find	the	one	that’s	comfortable	for	you.
	
BENEFITS
This	will	help	to	increase	your	range	of	motion	in	the	hips,	to	slim	and
tone	your	thighs,	and	to	build	up	strength	in	your	legs.	Prone	kicking
will	also	help	you	become	more	comfortable	with	your	face	submerged.
Even	accomplished	swimmers	isolate	kicking	as	part	of	their	workouts	to
improve	their	form	and	build	up	that	part	of	their	bodies.
Cool-down
This	part	of	the	lesson	reinforces	the	skills	you’ve	already	learned	and
allows	the	body	to	make	the	gradual	transition	from	strenuous	activity
back	to	lighter	activity,	and	from	being	wet	to	being	dry.	Review	the
skills	you’ve	just	learned,	concentrating	a	bit	more	on	those	you	feel
unsure	about.	Breathe	and	bob,	and	flutter	kick	in	both	prone	and	supine
positions.	If	you	have	a	partner,	practice	together,	watching	carefully	so
you	can	correct	and	help	each	other.
To	get	out	of	the	pool,	use	this	push-up	exit.	Put	both	hands	on	the
deck	of	the	pool,	and	bob	up	and	down	three	times.	As	you	rise	up	on
the	fourth	bob,	straighten	your	arms	and	start	flutter	kicking	at	the	same
time.	Lift	and	swirl	your	body	up	onto	the	edge	of	the	pool,	so	that	you
end	up	in	a	sitting	position	facing	the	water.	Besides	helping	to
strengthen	your	arms	and	shoulders,	this	exit	will	come	in	handy	when
you’re	not	near	the	pool	steps	or	ladder.
Homework
Try	to	practice	the	dry-land	exercises	every	day.	Do	the	breathing
exercises	for	five	minutes,	first	without	water,	then	with	a	sink	or	tub
full	of	water.	Every	morning,	maybe	after	a	light	breakfast,	sit	on	a	chair
and	practice	flutter	kicking.	Then	stand	up	and	bob	up	and	down	in
place.
If	you	had	any	problem	with	a	particular	skill,	concentrate	on	that
one,	paying	close	attention	to	any	extra	tips	that	have	been	suggested.
Try	to	practice	with	your	partner—if	you	have	one—on	dry	land	as	well
as	in	
the	water.	Observe	each	other	closely	so	you	can	critique	each
other	for	further	improvement.	Remember,	when	your	partner	does
something	particularly	well,	tell	him	or	her;	a	little	deserved	praise	goes
a	long	way.
If	you	want,	start	a	personal	homework	log.	It’s	a	great	way	to	watch
how	much	better	and	stronger	you’re	getting	with	every	practice	session.
Spend	as	much	time	as	possible	now	learning	the	beginning	skills.	It
may	not	look	much	like	swimming,	but	it	does	form	the	basis	for	what
you’ll	be	learning	later	on.	When	you	feel	really	comfortable	doing
everything	you’ve	learned	in	Lesson	One,	turn	the	page	to	begin	Lesson
Two.
L
ESSON	2
I
n	this	lesson	you’ll	begin	to	gain	even	more	control	over	your
breathing,	by	learning	to	exhale	very	slowly.	You’ll	also	learn	the	prone
float	and	recovery	and	you’ll	use	the	prone	flutter	kick	to	really	get	you
moving	through	the	water.
I’ve	also	suggested	some	Swimmers’	Shape-up	exercises	to	condition
your	body	and	help	you	warm	up.	These	will	go	a	long	way	toward
improving	your	swimming	skills	and	raising	your	fitness	level,	and	so
make	learning	easier	and	faster.	I’ll	be	adding	a	few	more	in	later
lessons.
Dry-Land/Prep	Skills
Do	these	general	body-conditioning	exercises	at	home,	just	before	you
begin	reviewing	old	skills	and	learning	new	ones.	Since	you’ll	be	moving
around	more	than	in	Lesson	One,	it’s	advisable	to	wear	loose	and
comfortable	clothing	during	this	and	subsequent	lessons.
Swimmers’	Shape-up	Exercises
Depending	upon	your	physical	condition,	you	may	need	to	work	your
body	harder	than	you’ve	been	doing.	If	you’ve	been	getting	regular
exercise,	you’re	probably	in	fairly	good	shape.	Even	so,	that’s	no	excuse
to	avoid	these.	Since	they	work	the	parts	of	the	body	needed	for
swimming,	you	can	do	them	as	a	change	from,	or	in	addition	to,	your
regular	activity.	For	
those	who	have	been	inactive,	these	exercises	are
doubly	important.	Some	are	similar	to	the	warm-up	skills	and	general
swimming	movements;	they’ll	also	help	you	to	release	tension	and	so
free	your	body	for	action.	(See	“Swimmers’	Shape-ups,”	
this	page
).	Feel
free	to	incorporate	as	many	as	you	like	into	your	lessons.
These	exercises	will	improve	your	overall	fitness	by	increasing	your
cardiovascular	capacity,	your	strength,	and	your	flexibility.	If	done
before	the	rest	of	your	lesson,	the	exercises	will	relax	and	energize	you
at	the	same	time,	giving	you	a	positive	up-’n’-at-’em	attitude	that	will
make	practicing	and	learning	easier.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Practice	these	exercises	any	time,	maybe	as	part	of	your	morning	routine
—they’re	a	great	waker-upper!	Do	them	all,	or	just	a	few	if	that’s	all	you
have	time	for.	The	more	you	do	them,	the	easier	they’ll	become.	Add
some	of	your	own	if	you	have	any	favorites,	or	if	you	feel	that	you	need
to	work	one	area	more	than	others.	Exercising	to	music	makes	things
more	fun,	as	will	doing	them	with	a	partner.
Review	Skills
At	home,	review	and	practice	the	dry-land	skills	that	you	learned	in
Lesson	One,	particularly	the	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	and	bobbing
exercises.
Controlled	Breathing
Now	you’re	just	going	to	do	a	slower	exhalation	than	you’ve	practiced	in
the	first	lesson.	For	this,	it’s	a	good	idea	to	have	a	watch	or	clock	with	a
second	hand.	If	one	isn’t	available,	count	off	the	seconds	by	saying	to
yourself	“one	Mississippi,	two	Mississippi,	three	Mississippi,”	and	so	on.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Sitting	up	straight,	inhale	with	both	nose	and	mouth;	then	exhale.	Do	it
at	the	same	rhythm	and	with	the	same	force	you’ve	been	using	to
practice,	but	make	a	note	of	how	many	seconds	it	takes	for	you	to
exhale.	Next	inhale	again,	but	this	time	take	a	full	five	seconds	to	exhale
forcefully.	If	you	can’t,	keep	trying,	adding	a	second	or	two	each	time.
Most	people	will	find	they	have	some	air	left	after	five	seconds.	If	so,
lengthen	your	time	to	
ten	seconds,	then	fifteen.	Now	do	the	same	thing
with	your	face	submerged	in	a	sink	or	tub	full	of	water.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
If	you	have	a	partner,	keep	track	of	the	time	for	each	other.	If	you	want
to	add	a	little	competition	to	spur	you	along,	both	of	you	exhale	at	the
same	time	and	see	who	can	hold	out	longer.
From	now	on,	whenever	you	practice	breathing,	consciously	try	to
lengthen	your	exhalation	time.
	
BENEFITS
This	exercise	helps	to	increase	your	lung	capacity	and	it	shows	you	that
you	don’t	have	to	breathe	as	often	as	you	thought	and	that	your	lungs
can	take	in	more	air	than	you	suspected.	Later	on,	slow	down	your
breathing.	It	will	help	you	get	a	“second	wind.”	It’ll	also	help	to	relax
you,	since	this	type	of	regular,	slow,	deep	breathing	is	a	lot	like	yogic
breathing.
Prone	Float	and	Recovery	to	a	Stand
The	next	step	in	learning	the	crawl	stroke	is	really	a	safety	measure.
Before	you	learn	how	to	float	on	your	stomach,	you	should	be	able	to
return	from	the	prone	position	to	a	standing	one.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
To	practice	this	motion	on	land,	stand	with	feet	together	and	arms
stretched	out	straight	in	front	of	you	at	shoulder	level.	Bend	your	knees
as	if	you	were	doing	a	bob	and	at	the	same	time	press	your	arms	down
in	front	of	you	and	to	the	sides.	Tilt	your	face	upward	as	you	straighten
your	knees	to	a	standing	position.	Repeat	ten	times.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
As	you	practice	this	skill,	repeat	these	key	words	with	each	motion:
“Bend,	press,	lift,	and	stand.”	To	grasp	the	movement	better,	imagine
sitting	down	at	a	table	and	then	standing	up	again	by	pressing	down	on
the	table	top.
If	you’re	practicing	with	a	buddy,	you	can	help	your	partner	to	recover
by	placing	your	hands,	thumbs	facing	upward,	at	his	or	her	armpits	to
gently	support	and	lift	the	partner	to	a	standing	position.
	
BENEFITS
This	is	the	first	step	toward	independent	swimming,	since	it’s	basic	to
your	safety.	If	you’re	not	practicing	with	a	partner	or	using	a	wall	(or
lifeline	or	kickboard)	for	support,	this	gives	you	an	efficient,	safe	way	to
recover	to	a	standing	position.
Prone	Glide	and	Flutter	Kicking	with	Assistance
This	is	the	next	step	in	learning	the	crawl	stroke.	Since	this	is	the	“dry
run,”	you’ll	be	walking	instead	of	flutter	kicking.	If	you	don’t	have	a
partner,	your	“assistance”	at	this	point	will	be	a	wall,	or	the	edge	of	a
table	or	counter	top.	Those	with	partners	will	assist	each	other	now,	as
well	as	later	on	when	you	transfer	this	skill	to	the	pool.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Without	a	Partner:
	Stretch	your	arms	out	straight,	palms	down.	Stand
beside	a	table	or	a	wall	and	run	one	hand	along	it	as	a	guide	(this	is	your
“partner”).	Take	five	steps	forward	with	your	chin	tucked	to	your	chest
and	with	your	free	arm	covering	your	ear.	As	you	do,	exhale	through
both	nose	and	mouth.	Then	turn	around	and,	using	your	other	hand	to
guide	you,	walk	another	five	steps	in	the	other	direction	so	you	end	up
where	you	started.	Repeat.
With	a	Partner:
	Stand	facing	each	other	and	grasp	each	other’s
elbows,	keeping	the	arms	straight.	Have	your	partner	place	his	or	her
hands	palms	up,	and	place	your	hands	palms	down	over	your	partner’s.
Then	have	your	partner	walk	backward	five	steps	and,	like	an
“engineer,”	guide	you,	the	“train,”	as	you	take	five	steps	forward.	Next,
change	positions	so	that	you	support	your	partner’s	arms	while	he	or	she
becomes	the	train.	Repeat	twice,	remembering	to	let	your	head	drop
down	and	to	exhale	through	your	nose	and	mouth	as	you	walk	forward.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Make	sure	your	arms	stay	absolutely	straight.	Get	in	the	habit	now,	and
you	won’t	have	to	worry	about	your	form	later.	Swimmers	with	partners
can	check	each	other.	Others	can	check	themselves	periodically,	with	a
mirror.	This	reminder	goes	for	everybody:	keep	your	chin	tucked	to	your
chest,	with	your	arms	covering	your	ears,	when	practicing	this	skill.
W
ATER
	S
KILLS
For	this	lesson,	you’ll	need	a	kickboard	or	other	flotation	support.	Ask
the	swimming	pool	personnel	what	they	have	that	you	can	use.
By	this	time,	you	should	be	noticing	a	definite	difference	while	you’re
in	the	water—a	new	ease,	new	confidence,	new	strength.	You’ll	find
yourself	feeling	more	relaxed	and	enjoying	the	water	perhaps	as	you
never	had	before.
Warm-up
As	you	know	by	now,	it’s	important	to	warm	up	before	you	enter	the
water,	which	is	always	a	lower	temperature	than	your	body.	From	now
on,	you	have	a	choice:	you	may	either	start	with	the	regular	pool-side
warm-up,	which	is	a	review	of	the	skills	you’ve	learned	so	far,	or	treat
yourself	to	a	super	warm-up	and	conditioning	by	prefacing	your
swimming	with	some	of	the	exercises	you	learned	as	part	of	the	dry-
land/prep	skills	for	that	lesson.	Or,	if	some	form	of	exercise	is	already
part	of	your	life,	why	not	schedule	your	activity	for	just	before	you
practice	your	water	skills?	You’ll	be	nicely	warmed	up,	and	nothing	feels
better	after	exercising	than	a	refreshing	swim.	Do	whatever	you	prefer,
and	whatever	circumstances	allow.	Just	remember	pool	rules,	common
courtesy,	and	safety.
Whether	you	add	extra	exercises	or	not,	everyone	should	do	the
regular	pool-side	warm-up	from	Lesson	One.
Controlled	Breathing
Now	you’re	ready	to	practice	your	breathing	in	the	pool.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Hold	on	to	the	edge	of	the	pool,	or	join	hands	with	your	partner	and
take	turns	practicing	this	skill.	Take	three	deep	breaths.	Then	take	one
more	deep	breath	through	both	your	nose	and	your	mouth;	put	your	face
in	the	water	and	exhale	for	as	long	as	you	can,	again	through	both	nose
and	mouth.	This	may	take	you	anywhere	from	five	seconds	up	to	a
whole	minute—everyone	has	a	different	capacity.	But	everyone	can
increase	whatever	capacity	he	has,	so	practice	this	several	times,	each
time	trying	to	add	a	few	more	seconds	to	your	previous	exhalation,	until
you	feel	you’ve	reached	your	limit	for	today.	Partners	can	time	each
other;	or	you	
can	count	slowly	to	yourself	or	refer	to	a	waterproof	watch
or	the	pool	clock.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Remember,	
you’re	not	trying	to	hold	your	breath
.	Your	goal	is	to	form	a
slow,	controlled,	steady	stream	of	bubbles	from	your	mouth	and	nose.
Simply	holding	your	breath	is	easier	at	first,	but	it	doesn’t	form	an	air
flow	and	is	a	guaranteed	way	of	getting	water	up	your	nose.
	
BENEFITS
This	exercise	helps	to	increase	your	lung	capacity	while	training	you	to
utilize	what	you	already	have	more	fully.	The	more	you	practice,	the
longer	you’ll	be	able	to	exhale	without	coming	up	for	another	breath.
Later	on,	you’ll	find	that	the	less	often	you	have	to	turn	your	face	up	for
air,	the	more	efficient	your	swimming	strokes	will	be.
If	you’ve	been	uncomfortable	in	the	water	until	now,	this	slow,	steady
breathing	will	probably	help	you	relax	as	well.
Prone	Flutter	Kicking	with	Controlled	Breathing
Now	that	you’re	warmed	up	and	have	reviewed	the	skills	you’ve	already
learned,	let’s	go	on	to	the	next	step,	which	combines	flutter	kicking	with
the	controlled	breathing	technique.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	by	holding	on	to	the	edge	of	the	pool	in	your	usual	prone	position.
Start	to	flutter	kick,	then	take	a	deep	breath.	Put	your	face	down	in	the
water,	exhaling	as	slowly	as	possible,	and	counting	(or	using	a	watch)	as
you	do	so.	Come	up	for	air	whenever	you	need	to.	Repeat	as	many	times
as	you	comfortably	can,	extending	your	exhalation	by	a	few	seconds
each	time.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Your	prone	flutter	kicking	should	be	pretty	good	by	now—toes	pointed,
ankles	relaxed	and	fluid,	power	coming	from	the	hip	and	thigh,	not	the
knee.	Don’t	let	your	form	fall	apart	because	you’re	concentrating	on	your
breathing.	Just	make	the	water	“boil.”	Don’t	overkick	or	come	too	close
to	the	surface,	either.	Partners	should	check	and	correct	each	other	for
this	common	mistake.
BENEFITS
In	combining	these	two	skills,	you’re	coordinating	what	you	already
know.	Eventually,	you’ll	be	using	these	skills	in	the	crawl	stroke.
Prone	Float	and	Recovery	to	a	Stand
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Without	a	Partner:
	First	practice	the	recovery	only.	Begin	by	standing	in
chest-deep	water	with	one	side	facing	the	wall.	Hold	on	to	the	wall	with
the	nearer	hand	and	extend	the	other	arm	forward	in	the	water.	Bend
your	knees,	press	your	free	arm	down,	lift	your	head	up	and	stand.	Do
this	
five	times.	Next,	crouch	down	to	shoulder	level.	Inhale,	drop	your
face	into	the	water,	and	exhale	as	you	push	off	the	wall	or	the	bottom.
Let	your	legs	come	up	to	the	surface	of	the	water	and	keep	your	free
hand	straight	in	front	of	you.	As	you	glide	through	the	water,	slide	your
other	hand	along	the	wall	of	the	pool.	When	you	need	to	come	up	for
air,	recover	to	a	stand.	Practice	this	ten	times	(five	times	on	each	side),
until	you	are	comfortable	doing	it.
Prone	float
.
Recovery	to	a	stand	from	the	prone	position
.
Then	move	a	step	or	two	away	from	the	wall	and	repeat	the
procedure:	practice	the	recovery	first	with	both	arms;	then	crouch	down,
head	in	the	water,	and	push	off.	Make	sure	your	arms	are	straight	out	in
front	of	you	in	a	streamlined	position.	When	you	run	out	of	air,	recover
to	a	stand.	Practice	this	ten	times.
With	a	Partner:
	Assist	each	other	while	practicing	the	recovery	to	a
stand.	Stand	facing	each	other,	an	arm’s	length	apart.	One	partner	(the
floater)	places	his	or	her	face	in	the	water,	sets	one	foot	in	front	of	the
other	and	pushes	off	the	bottom	of	the	pool,	allowing	the	feet	to	rise
toward	the	surface.	The	legs	should	be	straight,	the	back	arched	slightly,
and	the	arms	extended	straight	forward.	The	helper	places	his	or	her
hands,	thumbs	facing	upward,	under	the	armpits	of	the	floater.	As	the
floater	bends	and	then	straightens	the	knees	to	stand,	the	helper
supports	and	lifts	the	partner.	Then	assume	the	train-and-engineer
position	with	just	the	hands	touching.	As	one	partner	does	the	float,	let
go	with	your	hands	during	the	recovery,	but	be	prepared	to	assist	if	your
buddy	needs	it.	Practice	the	rest	of	the	procedure	according	to	“Without
a	Partner,”	above.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
You’ll	see	how	the	water’s	resistance	helps	you	to	make	a	smooth
transition	from	a	horizontal	floating	position	to	a	vertical	standing
position.	Remember,	to	coordinate	the	movements,	repeat	to	yourself:
“Bend,	press,	lift,	and	stand.”	If	you	feel	that	you’re	ready,	add	a	slight
flutter	kick	to	the	float	to	help	you	move	along.	Then	let	go	with	one
hand	and	recover	to	a	stand.	Keep	practicing,	alternating	hands,	and
letting	go	for	a	gradually	longer	length	of	time	before	you	recover.	You
can	also	practice	the	recovery	with	your	back	against	the	wall:	push
your	hands	back	flat	against	the	wall	as	your	knees	bend	and	your	head
lifts.
Partners	should	try	this	without	assistance	at	first,	but	with	the	other
watching,	and	being	there	to	help,	if	necessary,	during	the	recovery.	This
method	is	better	than	grasping	each	other	by	the	arms	or	hands,	which
immobilizes	the	floater	and	prevents	him	from	helping	himself.
	
BENEFITS
This	is	the	first	step	on	the	road	to	“swimmer’s	lib”-once	you	know	how
to	resume	a	vertical	position	safely,	you	can	throw	away	your	kickboard
and	swim	on	your	own	with	more	confidence.	By	working	on	the
recovery	to	a	stand,	you’re	also	improving	your	coordination—getting
your	arms,	legs,	and	head	to	do	what	you	want	them	to	do,	when	you
want	them	to	do	it.
Prone	Glide	and	Flutter	Kicking	with	Assistance
You’ve	
practiced
	flutter	kicking	enough.	Now	it’s	time	to	
use
	that	power
to	propel	your	body	through	the	water.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Without	a	Partner:
	Stand	in	the	corner	of	the	pool,	with	one	wall	at
your	back	and	the	other	to	your	side.	Bend	your	leg	and	place	your	foot
flat	against	the	wall	in	back	of	you;	bend	down	so	the	water	is	shoulder
level.	This	is	the	
push-off
	position.	Place	the	hand	that’s	nearer	the	side
wall	on	the	edge	of	the	deck	or	gutter—that’s	what	you’ll	be	using	as	a
guide	and	support	instead	of	the	table	edge	or	wall	that	you	used	at
home.	Place	the	other	hand	straight	out	in	front	of	you,	palm	down,	on
the	surface	of	the	water.	Now	straighten	your	leg	and	push	off	so	your
body	
glides
	into	the	prone	position.	Immediately	begin	to	flutter	kick,
letting	your	hand	slide	along	the	top	of	the	wall.	When	you	get	to	the
other	side	of	the	shallow	end,	turn	around	and	repeat	in	the	opposite
direction.	Flutter	kick	across	the	pool	at	least	five	times.
With	a	Partner:
	Assume	the	train-and-engineer	position	you	practiced
on	dry	land.	The	“engineer”	will	hold	his	or	her	arms	straight,	with
palms	up,	at	water	level,	and	the	“train”	will	hold	his	or	her	arms
straight,	palms	down,	on	top	of	the	engineer’s.	Whoever	is	the	train
begins	in	the	push-off	position	described	above,	but	away	from	the
corner,	since	you	won’t	be	needing	the	support	of	the	side	wall.	As	you
push	off,	start	to	flutter	kick.	Your	engineer	walks	backward,	guiding
you,	as	he	did	on	land.	Each	time	you	repeat	this	skill,	let	your	grip	inch
closer	to	each	other’s	hands	until	only	your	fingertips	are	touching.	Then
switch	positions	and	
repeat,	until	each	swimmer	has	flutter	kicked	across
the	width	of	the	pool	at	least	five	times.
Push-off	into	a	prone	float	without	a	partner
.
Train-and-engineer	support	position
.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
This	is	the	same	skill	you	practiced	on	land,	except	now	you’re	flutter
kicking	instead	of	walking.	Remember,	it’s	actually	easier	in	water,	since
your	body	feels	as	though	it	weighs	less	than	it	does	on	land.
After	the	first	five	times,	try	putting	your	head	in	the	water	and
exhaling	as	you	kick.	Don’t	try	to	control	the	length	of	your	exhalation
for	now	unless	you	feel	ready.	Just	exhale	as	usual,	and	recover	to	a
stand	whenever	you	need	to	come	up	for	air.	Then	exhale	again	as	you
resume	kicking.
Remember	your	form.	Just	because	you’re	adding	something	new	to	a
skill	you’ve	already	learned	doesn’t	mean	you	should	get	sloppy.	Keep
your	legs	just	as	straight,	your	feet	just	as	pointed,	your	ankles	just	as
relaxed	as	when	you’re	holding	on	to	the	edge	of	the	pool.	And	keep
your	arms	straight—don’t	collapse	at	the	elbow.
	
BENEFITS
You	may	not	realize	it,	but	once	you’ve	mastered	this	step,	you’re
combining	three	skills	needed	for	swimming	the	crawl	stroke—flutter
kicking,	exhaling	underwater,	and	keeping	your	arms	straight.	This	is
the	correct,	streamlined	body	position	that	makes	kicking	so	much	easier
and	more	efficient.	The	push-off	will	also	give	you	a	glimpse	of	how
exciting	moving	your	whole	body	through	the	water	can	be.
Prone	Glide	and	Flutter	Kick	with	Kickboard	(Optional)
It’s	time	you	got	around	to	using	a	kickboard	to	help	support	yourself.
(This	step	is	optional,	since	some	pools	don’t	allow	flotation	devices,	or
just	might	not	have	a	board	available.)
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Without	a	Partner:
	Stand	near	a	wall,	in	the	push-off	position.	Hold	the
kickboard	with	both	hands,	halfway	up	its	sides,	with	the	rounded	end
facing	away	from	you.	Make	sure	your	arms	are	perfectly	straight	ahead
of	you,	then	crouch	down	so	that	the	water	is	at	shoulder	level.	Inhale,
and	push	off	as	you	lower	your	head	into	the	water	and	flutter	kick	your
way	across	the	width	of	the	pool.	Remember,	make	those	bubbles
underwater,	
and	come	up	for	air	(by	turning	or	lifting	your	head	or	by
recovering	to	a	stand)	only	when	you	have	to.	Now	you’ll	appreciate
how	important	it	is	to	keep	your	eyes	open	underwater	so	you	can	see
where	you’re	headed.	As	you	kick,	stay	close	to	the	side	of	the	wall
along	the	shallow	end.
When	you	get	to	the	other	side,	turn	around	and	flutter	kick	back	the
other	way.	Repeat	at	least	five	times.
With	a	Partner:
	If	you	want,	you	can	take	this	intermediate	step	to
make	the	transition	to	using	the	kickboard	more	gradual.	Flutter	kick
using	the	kickboard	as	I	describe	above,	but	have	your	partner	hold	on
to	the	sides	near	the	rounded	tip	of	the	board	to	give	you	additional
support.	Flutter	kick	across	the	width	of	the	pool,	five	times	each.	Then
each	partner	should	repeat	the	exercise	alone,	using	only	the	kickboard
for	support.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Keep	thinking	about	stretching	your	arms	and	legs	to	keep	them	straight
and	streamlined.	Make	sure	you	keep	the	good	form	you’ve	learned,	and
kick	from	the	hip.	Be	certain	your	arms	cover	your	ears;	partners	should
check	each	other	on	this.
	
BENEFITS
This	exercise	will	further	improve	your	form	by	helping	you	to	keep
your	body	straight	and	moving	smoothly	through	the	water.	It	will	also
help	to	give	you	confidence	in	the	water’s	buoyancy,	and	in	your
increasing	ability	to	swim.
Cool-down
Review	all	the	skills	you’ve	learned,	especially	the	new	ones:	controlled
breathing	and	flutter	kicking	across	the	pool.	End	with	a	few	bobs	and
maybe	some	of	the	gentler	conditioning	exercises	you’ve	been	doing	on
dry	land.	Everything	is	easier	and	more	relaxing	when	you	do	it	in
water.	And	remember	to	use	your	push-up	exit	from	the	pool.
Homework
Continue	to	practice	your	controlled	breathing,	gradually	extending	the
exhalation.	When	you	practice	in	a	tub	of	water,	get	used	to	opening
your	eyes	and	taking	a	good	look	at	those	bubbles	that	are	keeping	the
water	out	of	your	nasal	passages.	Also,	practice	flutter	kicking	to
continue	to	
build	your	strength	and	technique.	Every	once	in	a	while,
stand	in	front	of	a	mirror,	raise	your	arms	straight	above	your	head,	with
thumbs	locked,	and	carefully	check	your	form	and	get	accustomed	to
how	it	feels	to	be	in	this	position—it’s	so	easy	to	forget	and	bend	at	the
elbows	when	you’re	in	the	water,	without	even	realizing	it.	Continue	to
update	your	homework	log,	particularly	concerning	your	controlled
breathing.	Do	the	conditioning	exercises	as	often	as	possible,	or
substitute	some	of	your	own.	For	instance,	you	might	prefer	bike	riding
or	a	good	brisk	walk.	Add	to	your	dry-land	activity	whenever	you	can.
Walk,	bicycle,	or	roller	skate	instead	of	driving	or	taking	a	bus.	Jog
when	you	walk	the	dog.	Do	a	few	exercises	on	your	lunch	break—they’re
great	tension	relievers	as	well	as	conditioners.	And	don’t	forget	to	work
on	your	water	skills	whenever	you	can,	even	if	your	partner	isn’t
available.	You’ll	find	that	a	few	minutes	here,	a	few	minutes	there,	will
really	add	up	and	speed	you	on	your	way	to	fun,	fitness,	and	health.
L
ESSON	3
T
his	is	the	lesson	where	the	pieces	of	the	puzzle	really	come	together—
controlled	rhythmic	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	and	the	crawl	arm
motion.	At	the	end	of	this	lesson	you’ll	be	doing	the	crawl	stroke—some
for	the	first	time,	some	for	the	first	time	correctly,	and	everyone	with	a
real	understanding	of	the	components	and	mechanics	of	the	stroke.
If	at	any	time	you	feel	you	are	having	too	much	trouble	mastering	the
crawl	stroke,	or	if	you	just	feel	more	comfortable	on	your	back,	skip	to
Lesson	Six,	where	you’ll	find	the	beginning	of	the	backstroke.	(I	know	I
said	not	to	skip	around,	but	there	are	exceptions	to	every	rule.)	The
important	thing	is	not	to	let	some	hang-up	about	putting	your	face	in	the
water,	or	a	problem	with	your	rhythmic	breathing,	stop	your	progress.
Meanwhile,	keep	practicing	the	beginning	skills	you	learned	earlier	until
you	feel	comfortable	enough	in	the	prone	position,	then	go	back	to	the
crawl	stroke.
Since	you’re	going	to	begin	really	moving	through	the	water	in	this
lesson,	you	might	want	to	put	on	a	bathing	cap	(if	you	haven’t	done	so
already)	to	keep	your	hair	protected	and	out	of	your	eyes.	You	may	also
want	to	get	goggles	(see	
this	page
),	if	you’ve	been	experiencing	some
discomfort	from	swimming-pool	chemicals.
D
RY
-L
AND
/P
REP
	S
KILLS
If	you	have	the	time,	the	energy,	and	the	inclination	(and	I	hope	you
do),	begin	this	lesson	with	the	conditioning	exercises	you	learned	in
Lesson	Two.
Review	Skills
First	review	these	dry-land/prep	skills	from	Lessons	One	and	Two:
breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	and	prone	flutter	kicking	with
assistance.
Crawl	Stroke	(Hand-over-hand	Arm	Motion)
This	is	the	familiar	hand-over-hand	motion	that	is	the	basis	of	the	crawl
stroke.	It’s	simple,	really,	but	many	people	have	learned	it	incorrectly,	or
have	simply	gotten	a	bit	sloppy	over	the	years.
Actually	there	are	two	stages	in	learning	the	crawl	stroke.	The	first
isn’t	considered	the	most	efficient	by	today’s	standards,	but	it’s	easier	for
novice	swimmers	because	it’s	a	simpler,	more	direct	motion.	After
you’ve	mastered	this	first	stage,	we’ll	move	on	to	the	second,	which
makes	for	a	more	efficient	and	powerful	stroke.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
To	begin,	put	your	left	hand	on	your	left	hip	for	now	so	that	you	can
concentrate	on	your	right	arm.	Extend	your	right	arm	straight	out	in
front	of	you,	fingers	together	and	pointed	downward.	Then	
pull
	your
right	arm	straight	down,	until	your	thumb	brushes	the	outside	of	your
right	thigh.	With	your	arm	still	straight,	bring	it	back	as	far	as	it	will	go.
Then	bring	it	back	even	further.	When	you’ve	really	reached	your	limit,
bend	your	elbow,	
recovering
	it	up	as	high	as	it	will	go—as	if	you	were	a
puppet	and	someone	were	pulling	on	your	elbow	with	a	string.	Keep
lifting	the	elbow	as	high	as	it	will	go	as	you	bring	the	arm	forward,	then
straighten	it	when	it	comes	back	to	the	starting,	or	
catch
,	position.
Repeat	with	the	right	arm	five	more	times;	then	shake	out	your	arms	and
practice	the	motion	with	your	left	arm,	keeping	your	right	hand	resting
on	your	right	hip	so	that	you	can	isolate	the	movement.
When	you’ve	got	that,	it’s	time	to	try	the	
catch-up	stroke
,	where	you
move	both	arms	alternately,	making	sure	that	your	thumb	touches	(or
“catches	up”	to)	the	other	before	you	begin	the	next	downward
movement.	Begin	in	the	prone	position,	arms	straight	out,	thumbs
touching.	Do	the	crawl	stroke	with	your	right	arm:	press	your	hand
straight	down	and	back	(the	
pull
),	bend	the	elbow	high	up	toward	the
ceiling	and	bring	the	arm	forward	(the	
recovery
),	then	touch	thumbs
with	the	left	hand	(the	
catch
),	and	immediately	repeat	with	the	left	arm
to	complete	the	stroke	cycle.	A	
cycle
	is	when	the	right	and	left	arm	each
pull	once.	Repeat	the	cycle	ten	times.
Next,	repeat	this	procedure,	but	walk	forward	simultaneously	to
simulate	
the	flutter	kicking	you’ll	be	adding	later.	Make	sure,	as	you’re
walking,	that	you	lower	your	head	and	look	in	front	of	you.
The	pull
.
The	recovery
.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
This	will	be	much	easier	in	the	water,	I	guarantee	you.	On	land,	your
arms	may	feel	heavy	and	get	tired;	but	in	the	pool	you’ll	feel	lighter	and
more	graceful	because	of	the	water’s	buoyancy.	You’ll	definitely	feel
your	shoulders	and	arms	working—that’s	why	those	conditioning
exercises	are	so	important.	Make	sure	you	consciously	relax	your	neck
and	shoulders.	To	get	the	flow	of	the	movement,	go	very	slowly,	as	if
you	were	in	a	slow-motion	film,	and	repeat	the	key	words	as	you
practice:	“Pull,	bend,	recover,	and	catch.”
	
BENEFITS
The	crawl	stroke	takes	a	lot	of	coordination;	by	practicing	the	motion	on
land,	you’ll	find	it	that	much	easier	in	the	water.	Also,	by	actually
moving	your	arms	and	stretching	your	shoulders	on	land,	you’re
increasing	your	range	of	motion.
W
ATER
	S
KILLS
Warm-up
As	usual,	the	warm-up	consists	of	conditioning	exercises,	plus	a	review
of	the	skills	you’ve	learned	thus	far.
Review	Skills
Practice	your	controlled	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	prone	glide
and	flutter	kicking	with	assistance,	and/or	with	a	kickboard.
Prone	Glide	to	Wall	with	Flutter	Kicking	(Unassisted)
Now	that	you’ve	seen	how	easy	it	is	to	flutter	kick	your	way	through	the
water	and	to	recover	to	a	standing	position,	it’s	time	to	let	go	of	the
kickboard.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Step	back	about	ten	feet	from	the	wall	of	the	pool.	To	begin	the	prone
glide,	walk	toward	the	wall	with	your	arms	stretched	out	in	front	of	you.
Then	lower	your	face	into	the	water,	and	continue	walking	forward,
exhaling	those	bubbles.	Return	to	your	starting	position	and	take	a	step
forward—one	leg	in	front	of	the	other,	knees	bent,	ready	for	push-off.
Then	push	off	the	bottom,	letting	your	legs	slowly	float	up	to	the	surface
and	continuing	to	move	toward	the	wall	without	kicking.	This	results	in
a	beautiful,	peaceful	glide	as	the	push-off	propels	your	body	smoothly
through	the	water.
Try	this	a	few	times	without	kicking,	then	give	in	to	the	natural
tendency	to	kick.	Stop,	and	recover	to	a	stand	if	you	need	to	come	up	for
air;	but	try	to	reach	the	pool	wall	before	you	need	air.
Keep	practicing,	moving	a	little	farther	back	from	the	wall	each	time
so	that	you	glide	more.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Aim	for	a	graceful,	continuous	movement.	Give	an	energetic	push-off,
starting	with	knees	bent	and	shoulders	at	water	level.	Glide	until	you
begin	to	lose	momentum,	then	begin	to	flutter	kick.	Remember	your
form	(partners	check	each	other):	arms	stretched	out	straight,	covering
your	ears,	body	fully	extended	and	streamlined.	If	your	legs	are	sinking,
it’s	probably	because	you’re	piking	(bending	at	the	waist)	in	the	water.
Push	your	hips	forward,	arch	your	back	slightly,	and	stretch	your	legs.
Think	of	yourself	as	a	torpedo	gliding	through	the	water.
Crawl-stroke	Arm	Motion	(Assisted)
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Crouch	down	in	chest-deep	water	and	bend	forward	slightly,	with	your
arms	straight	out	in	front	of	you,	thumbs	touching.	Just	as	you	did	on
dry	land,	get	the	feel	of	the	stroke	by	working	one	arm	at	a	time	at	first
and	resting	the	nonworking	hand	on	your	hip.	Bring	the	arm	straight
down,	brush	your	outer	thigh,	and	continue	to	stretch	the	arm	straight
back	as	far	as	it	will	go.	Then	bend	the	elbow	and	carry	it	high	as	you
bring	the	arm	forward.	Straighten	the	arm	and	return	to	the	starting
position.	Next,	work	each	arm	alternately,	repeating	to	yourself,	“Pull,
recover,	catch.”	Repeat	each	complete	stroke	cycle	at	least	ten	times.
Now,	still	crouching,	begin	walking	as	you	stroke,	so	that	you	get	the
feel	of	your	body	moving	through	the	water.	Inhale,	put	your	face	into
the	water	as	you	exhale,	and	begin	the	arm	stroke.	Feel	how	pushing	the
water	back	with	your	arms	moves	your	body	forward.	(This	is	Newton’s
third	law	of	motion	in	action.)	Begin	walking	at	just	the	speed	that	you
push	the	water.	Repeat	the	crawl-stroke	arm	motion	ten	times,	trying	to
travel	further	each	time	before	you	run	out	of	air.	Now	you’re	ready	to
take	your	feet	off	the	ground.
Without	a	Partner:
	Crouch	down	so	that	the	surface	of	the	water	is	at
shoulder	level.	Inhale,	place	your	face	into	the	water	to	hairline	level,
exhale,	and	push	off	with	one	arm	straight	in	front	of	you.	Begin	the
crawl-stroke	arm	motion	with	that	arm,	letting	your	other	hand	slide
along	the	pool	wall	as	you	move	through	the	water.	Turn	around	and
practice	in	the	other	direction,	working	the	opposite	arm.	Practice	at
least	ten	times	on	each	side.	As	the	arm	motion	becomes	more
comfortable,	alternately	release	and	grip	the	wall,	gradually	increasing
the	length	of	each	release.
With	a	Partner:
	Assume	the	train-and-engineer	position.	One	partner
does	the	prone	glide,	adding	the	crawl-stroke	arm	motion.	As	the
swimmer	begins	the	stroke,	he	or	she	lets	go	of	the	“engineer’s”	hand
with	that	hand,	but	still	holds	on	with	the	nonworking	hand.	As	the
swimmer	completes	the	stroke,	he	or	she	replaces	the	hand	on	the
partner’s	arm,	and	slips	off	the	opposite	hand	to	continue	the	stroke.
Important:	one	hand	must	be	in	contact	with	the	“engineer”	at	all	times
—stay	with	your	partner.	The	partners	alternate	until	both	have	done	at
least	ten	cycles.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Now	that	you’ve	practiced	it	in	the	water,	you’re	ready	to	learn	some	of
the	finer	points	of	the	stroker’s	mechanics.	Your	hands	should	enter	the
water	at	a	30-to	45-degree	downward	angle,	and	pull	down	and	back
through	the	water	in	a	90-degree	arc	before	you	begin	the	recovery.	If
you	find	it	natural	to	add	the	flutter	kick	at	this	point,	go	ahead.	If	you
find	that	too	much	to	do	for	right	now,	hold	off.	A	lot	depends	on	your
buoyancy:	if	you	find	that	your	legs	are	sinking,	a	smaller	flutter	kick
can	help	make	the	difference.	So	can	your	form—remember,	stretch	out
straight	and	press	your	hips	forward	in	the	prone	position.
	
BENEFITS
You’re	isolating	the	crawl-stroke	arm	motion	without	adding	the
flutter	kick	right	now	so	that	you	can	concentrate	on	your	form.	That’s
also	the	reason	that	you’re	doing	the	catch-up	stroke.	It	may	feel	a	little
awkward	now,	and	you	may	complain	that	it	slows	you	down	in	the
water.	Exactly!	That’s	what	you	want	to	do	right	now—the	slower	you
move,	the	more	time	you	have	to	think	about	and	to	
feel
	what	you’re
doing.
Crawl	Stroke	(Unassisted)
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Step	back	about	three	body	lengths	from	the	wall.	You	will	begin	exactly
as	for	a	prone	glide,	but	instead	of	keeping	your	arms	outstretched	in
front	of	you	at	shoulder	level,	you’ll	do	the	crawl	stroke.	Crouch	down
so	that	the	water	is	at	shoulder	level,	inhale,	put	your	face	in	the	water,
exhale,	and	push	off	toward	the	wall.	Immediately	begin	doing	the	crawl
stroke,	alternating	arms	and	remembering	to	pull	down	and	back,	bend
the	elbow	and	lift	it	high,	bring	the	arm	forward,	straighten	it	and	touch
your	other	hand	as	your	arm	enters	the	water	at	a	30-to	45-degree	angle.
Practice	just	the	arm	stroke	a	few	times	until	you’re	sure	you	have	it,
then	combine	it	with	a	little	flutter	kicking.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Don’t	forget	about	your	form,	which	will	make	swimming	much	easier
and	more	enjoyable.	If	you	find	yourself	tensing	up	and	crumpling	into
an	ineffective,	splashing	fetal	position,	try	to	relax.	Straighten	out.
Streamlining	is	the	key;	think	about	natural	swimmers—fish,	eels,	and	so
on—and	elongate	your	body.
Cool-down
Review	all	your	water	skills,	especially	the	new	ones	you’ve	learned	in
this	lesson:	the	prone	float	and	recovery	(assisted	and	unassisted),	the
crawl	stroke	(walking	with	assistance,	and	without	it	if	you’re	up	to	it).
End	with	some	flutter	kicking,	using	the	kickboard	or	holding	on	to
the	wall	of	the	pool,	and	a	few	bobs	with	controlled	breathing.	Don’t
forget	the	push-up	exit.
Homework
You	have	a	lot	to	practice	this	time.	Review	the	recovery	to	a	stand	in
front	of	the	mirror	or	have	your	partner	check	your	position.	Work	on
your	crawl	stroke	standing	in	front	of	a	mirror	every	day.	Continue	to
practice	your	bobbing	and	flutter	kicking	on	land	to	develop	your
strength,	and	do	some	shape-ups	or	your	favorite	activity	as	often	as
possible	to	improve	your	overall	fitness.	Practice	controlled	breathing
whenever	you	think	of	it—at	home	watching	TV,	washing	your	face,	or
even	in	an	elevator.	Add	this	and	your	new	skills	to	your	Homework
Log.
L
ESSON	4
T
his	is	the	breakthrough	lesson	for	new	swimmers.	You’re	now	ready	to
take	the	final	step	in	learning	the	crawl	stroke:	coordinating	your
controlled	breathing	with	your	arm	and	leg	motions.	First	you’ll	learn	a
new	skill:	how	to	make	your	breathing	regular	and	rhythmic.	Then	you’ll
combine	the	various	components	of	the	crawl	stroke	first	in	pairs:	the
arm	motion	with	the	flutter	kick;	then	the	arm	motion	and	rhythmic
breathing;	then	the	flutter	kick	with	rhythmic	breathing.	Finally,	you’ll
put	it	all	together,	and	you’ll	have	the	total	picture:	the	arm	motion	with
flutter	kicking	and	rhythmic	breathing.
When	you’re	through	with	this	lesson,	you’ll	be	a	real	swimmer	who
does	the	crawl	stroke	
correctly
.	That’s	something	to	be	proud	of.	How
about	buying	yourself	a	new	bathing	suit	as	a	reward?	You	deserve	it.
D
RY
-L
AND
/P
REP
	S
KILLS
First	do	some	conditioning	exercises.	As	you	do	them,	notice	how	your
endurance	has	improved	since	you	first	started.	Since	you’ll	be	needing
more	and	more	strength	and	flexibility	in	the	arms	and	shoulders	as	you
do	the	crawl,	concentrate	on	exercises	that	work	those	areas.	(See
“Swimmers’	Shape-ups.”	
this	page
.)
Review	Skills
Run	through	the	skills	you’ve	learned	so	far,	paying	particular	attention
to	the	crawl	arm	motion.
The	Law	of	Opposites	(Crawl-stroke	arm	motion	and	rhythmic	breathing)
.
Crawl-stroke	Arm	Motion	and	Rhythmic	Breathing
At	long	last,	here’s	the	ultimate	piece	to	the	crawl-stroke	puzzle—a
method	of	coordinating	your	rhythmic	breathing	with	your	arm
movements.	To	illustrate	this	coordination,	I’ve	coined	“The	Law	of
Opposites,”	which	I’ll	explain	below.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	by	sitting	up	straight.	Turn	your	head	to	the	right,	then	return	it	to
forward;	turn	your	head	to	the	left,	then	forward	again.	Keep	your	head
level	as	you	move	it;	don’t	tilt	it	up	or	down,	but	only	from	side	to	side.
Imagine	that	you’re	watching	a	tennis	match,	and	your	gaze	is	following
the	ball	back	and	forth.	Repeat	ten	times	for	each	side.
Next,	add	your	rhythmic	breathing:	inhale	deeply	as	you	turn	your
head	to	the	side,	then	exhale	forcefully	as	you	face	forward.	Repeat
another	ten	times	for	each	side.	Exhale	continuously	as	you	rotate	your
head	back	to	the	face-front	position.
Now	do	this	exercise,	turning	your	head	to	only	
one
	side,	then	forward
again.	Then	repeat	on	the	other	side	a	few	times.	Remember,	inhale	as
you	turn,	exhale	as	you	return.	One	side	will	probably	feel	more	natural
to	you.	For	most	right-handed	people,	the	right	side	will	feel	better;	for
left-handed	swimmers,	it’s	usually	the	left.	But	there	are	exceptions—
maybe	both	feel	comfortable	to	you;	maybe	both	feel	awkward.
Whatever	the	case,	pick	one	side	for	now—you	can	always	change	it
later.	For	simplicity’s	sake,	I’ll	assume	that	you’re	breathing	on	the	right
side—if	not,	just	read	“left”	wherever	I	say	“right.”
Do	this	exercise	one	more	time,	but	imagine	that	you’re	in	the	water.
Lean	forward	from	the	waist	and	visualize	your	left	cheek	resting	on	the
water’s	surface	with	your	head	turned	to	the	right.	It	may	help	if	you
rest	your	hands	on	your	hips	or	thighs.	Inhale,	then,	as	you	turn	your
head	down,	exhale.	Repeat	ten	times,	turning	your	head	only	to	the	right
to	inhale.
Next,	add	the	arm	motion.	Here’s	where	“The	Law	of	Opposites”
begins	to	operate:	as	you	turn	your	head	to	one	side	to	inhale,	the	arm
on	the	opposite	side	of	your	body	is	stretched	out	in	front	of	you;	the
arm	on	your	breathing	side	is	stretched	behind	you,	out	of	the	way.	This
way,	you’re	assured	of	getting	a	“bite”	of	air—and	not	of	your	arm.	Once
that’s	clear	in	your	mind,	try	to	put	it	into	practice.	Sit	or	stand,	leaning
forward,	arms	straight	ahead,	thumbs	touching.	Put	your	face	down	as	if
it	were	in	the	water,	and	exhale.	As	your	right	arm	pulls	down	and	back,
turn	your	head	to	the	right	and	inhale.	As	you	bring	your	arm	back	to
the	starting	position,	touch	thumbs,	and	exhale	as	your	left	arm	pulls
down	and	back.
Return	your	left	arm	to	the	starting	position,	and	begin	the	cycle	all
over	again.	Repeat	ten	times;	rest,	then	repeat	another	ten	times.
If	you	have	a	buddy,	the	next	step	is	to	go	back	to	your	train-and-
engineer	position	and	practice	the	crawl-stroke	arm	motion	with	the
rythmic	breathing	you’ve	just	learned.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Make	sure	that	you’re	
pivoting
	your	head;	don’t	lift	it	at	all	to	come	up
for	air.	And	turn	your	head	to	only	one	side.	Whether	it’s	the	right	or	left
doesn’t	matter	as	long	as	you’re	comfortable,	and	you	stick	to	the	same
side	each	time	you	inhale.	Remember,	it’s	“Turn	and	inhale,	return	and
exhale.”	If	your	neck	feels	a	little	stiff,	don’t	worry.	It	will	loosen	up	in
time.	Also	remember	to	inhale	and	exhale	continuously;	try	not	to	hold
your	breath	even	for	a	moment.
W
ATER
	S
KILLS
Warm-up
Do	the	conditioning	exercises	you’ve	been	doing,	concentrating
particularly	on	stretching	and	strengthening	the	arms	and	shoulders	in
preparation	for	doing	the	crawl	stroke,	and	head	circles	to	loosen	up
your	neck	for	rhythmic	breathing.	Then	go	right	into	a	review	of	the
skills	you’ve	learned	so	far.
Review	Skills
Practice	your	bobbing,	controlled	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	prone	float
and	recovery	to	a	stand,	prone	glide	to	wall	with	flutter	kick,	and	crawl-
stroke	arm	motion.
Crawl-stroke	Arm	Motion	and	Flutter	Kicking
Some	of	you	may	be	doing	this	naturally	already:	for	others,	it	will	be	a
new	exciting	step,	even	though	it’s	only	combining	the	last	two	skills.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
To	begin,	bend	down	so	that	the	surface	of	the	water	is	at	your	shoulder
level.	Place	your	arms	out	straight	in	front	of	you,	thumbs	touching.
Inhale	deeply	and	begin	to	walk	forward,	putting	your	face	in	the	water
as	you	exhale.	Start	the	crawl-stroke	arm	motion	as	you	push	off	and
begin	to	flutter	kick.	Recover	to	a	stand	when	you	need	more	air;	then
immediately	repeat	until	you’ve	done	this	drill	at	least	ten	times.	When
you’re	comfortable,	and	you’re	sure	your	form	is	good,	you	can	progress
beyond	the	catch-up	stroke	and	begin	the	natural	alternating	stroke,
where	you	pull	one	arm	back	while	the	other	is	still	coming	forward.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
You	may	at	first	find	yourself	concentrating	on	either	the	kick	or	the	arm
stroke,	to	the	detriment	of	the	other.	Don’t	worry.	The	easier	and	more
habitual	one	becomes,	the	easier	it’ll	be	to	transfer	your	attention	to	the
other.	But	that	doesn’t	mean	that	you	should	avoid	practicing	your	weak
area	in	the	meantime.	If	putting	it	all	together	is	still	a	problem,	try	this
intermediate	step:	practice	your	arm	motion	in	chest-deep	water,
walking	
forward	to	simulate	the	flutter	kick.	Remember	your	form:	arms
straight	during	the	pull,	elbows	high	during	the	recovery.	If	you	still
need	a	little	assistance,	whether	it’s	your	partner,	a	kickboard,	or	placing
one	hand	on	the	wall	of	the	pool,	rely	on	it	for	support	as	long	as	you
need	to.	But	
only
	for	as	long	as	you	need	to.	Gradually	wean	yourself
away	from	all	assistance,	by	letting	go	with	your	supporting	hand	for
gradually	longer	periods	of	time.
Or	you	may	find	it	easier	to	begin	with	the	flutter	kick	after	the	push-
off,	then	add	the	arm	motion,	instead	of	the	other	way	around.
	
BENEFITS
Once	you’ve	combined	these	two	skills,	you’ve	reached	a	milestone	in
your	swimming	career.	There’s	only	one	more	skill	to	learn	before	you’re
a	real	swimmer.
Flutter	Kicking	and	Rhythmic	Breathing
If	you	can	combine	your	kicking	with	your	breathing,	you’re	well	on
your	way	to	putting	together	all	the	components	of	the	crawl	stroke.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	by	crouching	down	so	that	the	surface	of	the	water	is	at	shoulder
level.	Turn	your	head	to	your	breathing	side	and	rest	your	cheek	on	the
water.	Inhale;	then	exhale	and	pivot	your	face	down	into	the	water.
When	you	run	out	of	air,	pivot	your	head	back	up	to	the	side	and	inhale.
Exhale	as	you	pivot	your	face	into	the	water	again.	Your	head	should	be
parallel	to	the	bottom	of	the	pool,	and	you	should	be	looking	straight
down	toward	your	feet.	Repeat	this	at	least	ten	times.	Rest,	and	repeat
another	ten	times.
Now	let’s	add	the	kicking.	Hold	on	to	the	wall	in	the	prone	flutter	kick
position—one	hand	grasping	the	top	of	the	wall	and	pulling,	the	other
placed	flat,	fingers	facing	downward,	against	the	wall	below	the	surface
and	pushing.	So	breathing	will	be	easier,	make	the	lower	arm	the	one	on
your	breathing	side,	and	place	it	a	little	farther	below	the	water’s	surface
than	usual.
Begin	rhythmic	breathing	as	you	did	before,	but	let	your	legs	come	up
to	the	surface,	and	begin	flutter	kicking.	Continue	flutter	kicking	and
breathing	rhythmically	for	ten	cycles;	rest,	and	repeat.
Practice	flutter	kicking	and	rhythmic	breathing,	using	the	same
progression	
as	for	regular	flutter	kicking—first	with	assistance	(a
partner,	a	kickboard,	or	the	wall),	then	unassisted—until	the
coordination	is	comfortable.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
If	you	find	that	your	body	begins	to	bend,	make	sure	that	both	arms	are
perfectly	straight.	If	you’re	not	getting	enough	air,	you	may	not	be
turning	your	head	enough.	So	straighten	out—stretch	those	arms	and
legs,	and	push	those	hips	down.	Streamline	your	body,	and	try	to	turn
your	head	fully	to	get	a	good	bite	of	air.	If	you’re	having	trouble,	try
going	back	to	just	kicking	or	just	breathing	for	a	while.	Then	come	back
and	combine	them.
	
BENEFITS
By	combining	your	breathing	skills	with	one	other	skill	at	a	time,	you
are	coordinating	in	gradual	steps	this	most	important	component	for
comfortable	swimming.	The	breathing	is	the	key—once	you	know	you
can	get	enough	air	whenever	you	want	to,	you’ll	have	the	confidence	to
add	other	skills	to	your	swimming	repertoire.
Crawl-stroke	Arm	Motion	and	Rhythmic	Breathing
Now	to	combine	the	last	two	skills	you’ve	learned,	the	crawl-stroke	arm
motion	and	rhythmic	breathing,	just	as	you	practiced	on	land.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Remember	the	“Law	of	Opposites”—when	you	inhale	to	the	right,	your
left	arm	is	forward	and	your	right	arm	is	back	out	of	the	way.	To	put	the
law	to	use,	stand	in	chest-deep	water,	bending	forward	so	that	the	water
is	at	shoulder	level.	If	you	breathe	to	the	right,	drop	your	right	arm
down	and	back,	stretch	your	left	arm	straight	ahead,	and	rest	your	left
cheek	on	the	water.	Inhale;	then	exhale	underwater	as	you	complete	the
stroke	cycle.	Rest,	then	repeat	the	arm	motion,	combining	the	exhaling
and	inhaling	with	each	stroke	just	as	you	did	on	land.	Practice	this	skill
until	it’s	comfortable.
When	you’re	ready,	do	the	same	progression	that	you	did	for	the
crawl-stroke	arm	motion	without	the	breathing—first	walking	through
the	water,	then	in	the	prone	position	with	assistance	from	a	partner,
kickboard,	or	the	pool	wall,	then	without	assistance.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Be	sure	to	get	the	opposition	that	the	“Law	of	Opposites”	demands.	If
you	have	trouble	coordinating	the	breathing	and	the	arm	motion,	go
back	to	the	catch-up	stroke	to	slow	the	whole	process	down.	And
remember	the	30-to	45-degree	downward	angle	of	the	hands	on	entry,
along	with	the	90-degree	downward	and	backward	pulling	arc
Crawl	Stroke,	Flutter	Kicking,	and	Rhythmic	Breathing
This	is	it,	the	last	and	most	exhilarating	step	in	doing	the	crawl	stroke.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Review	just	the	arm	motion	and	the	kicking	for	a	minute.	Then	take	a
deep	breath	and	swim	as	far	as	you	can	before	coming	up	for	air.	Repeat
about	five	times.	The	next	time,	when	you	need	to	come	up	for	air,	try	to
take	a	rhythmic	breath	by	inhaling	on	your	breathing	side	
once;
	then
continue	until	you	have	to	come	up	for	air	again.	Stop,	rest,	and
continue,	trying	to	improve	your	form	and	to	increase	steadily	the
number	of	consecutive	rhythmic	breaths	you	take	each	time.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Remember,	your	elbow	is	the	last	thing	to	enter	the	water	during	the
catch,	and	the	first	thing	to	break	the	surface	after	the	pull.
	
BENEFITS
The	combination	of	these	three	skills	is	the	basis	of	the	crawl	stroke,	or
freestyle.	If	you’ve	swum	before,	I	hope	that	this	will	break	forever	your
habit	of	doing	what	I	call	the	“Coney	Island	crawl”—head	above	water,
flopping	awkwardly	from	side	to	side	with	every	stroke.	That’s	an
inefficient	and	tiring	way	to	swim.	With	rhythmic	breathing,	you’ll	find
that	you	can	do	the	crawl	for	much	longer	than	you	ever	thought
possible.
Cool-down
Time	to	relax	with	some	gentle	swimming	movements.	Practice	the
crawl-stroke	arm	motion,	first	standing	in	place,	then	walking	forward.
Remember	your	technique:	put	your	thumbs	together,	stretch	your	arms
straight	out	in	front	of	you,	pull	your	arm	straight	down	and	back	as	far
as	it’ll	go,	then	bend	the	elbow	high	as	you	return	to	the	starting
position.
The	crawl	stroke.
The	catch
.
The	pull
.
The	recovery
.
Next,	practice	the	pairs	of	skills	you	learned	today—rhythmic
breathing	and	the	crawl	stroke,	first	standing	in	place,	then	walking
forward	as	the	pull	of	the	stroke	propels	you	through	the	water.	Next
move	on	to	the	second	pair:	flutter	kicking	and	rhythmic	breathing.
Finally,	if	you	have	the	energy,	practice	combining	the	arm	motion	with
the	flutter	kick.	(If	you	want	to	take	it	easy,	just	do	the	prone	flutter
kick,	either	unassisted	or	while	holding	on	to	the	wall	or	a	kickboard.)
Homework
You	have	a	lot	of	homework	this	time,	but	it’ll	be	worth	it.	Continue
practicing	your	controlled	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	and	the
crawl-stroke	arm	motion.	It’s	tough	to	combine	the	arm	motion	with	the
flutter	kick	on	dry	land,	so	try	to	get	yourself	to	the	water	as	often	as
you	can.	In	the	meantime,	practice	the	arm	motion	in	front	of	a	mirror
to	check	your	form.	If	you	want,	isolate	each	arm	at	first,	then	go	on	to
the	alternating	catch-up	stroke.	Add	rhythmic	breathing	to	your	arm
motion	practice	as	well	as	to	your	flutter	kicking.
Practice	your	rhythmic	breathing	in	a	tub	of	water,	making	sure	that
you	don’t	just	lift	your	head	up	for	air—you	should	really	pivot	at	the
neck.
For	best	results,	do	some	conditioning	exercises	
at	least
	three	times	a
week.
It	might	take	you	a	little	longer	to	feel	that	you’ve	mastered	this
lesson.	But	really,	this	final	step	is	simply	one	of	coordination—and	that
just	takes	some	getting	used	to.	To	do	that,	you	must	practice,	practice,
practice.	You	can	do	it—just	keep	at	it,	slowly	but	surely,	to	ensure	that
your	form	stays	as	good	as	it	is	when	you	practice	the	skill	separately.
If	you’re	really	struggling	with	the	coordination,	don’t	worry.	Go	on	to
learn	other	skills	in	the	next	lessons	if	you’re	uncomfortable	in	the	prone
position,	or	with	your	head	in	the	water.	Don’t	ignore	your	prone	skills
completely;	keep	plugging	away	at	what	you	
can
	do,	and	gradually
you’ll	notice	improvement.	Besides,	mastering	other	skills	will	give	you
confidence	that	will	help	you	eventually	to	conquer	the	things	that	are	a
little	stubborn	right	now.
L
ESSON	5
T
oday	you’re	going	to	learn	a	simple	safety	skill	that	will	enable	you	to
stay	afloat	in	deep	water	for	a	long	time	while	using	very	little	energy.
As	before,	you’ll	first	familiarize	yourself	with	the	motions	on	dry
land.	Each	part—sculling	with	the	arms	and	bicycling	with	the	legs—is
explained	separately	first;	then	you’ll	learn	how	to	combine	them.
D
RY
-L
AND
/P
REP
	S
KILLS
I	hope	you’ve	been	doing	your	conditioning	exercises	regularly.	Do	them
again	today	as	part	of	your	prep	skills.
Review	Skills
Practice	your	controlled	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	and	prone
skills.
Sculling	for	Treading
This	is	the	first	step	in	learning	how	to	move	on	your	back.	It’s	also
similar	to	what	the	top	half	of	you	is	doing	when	you’re	treading	water,
which	you’ll	be	introduced	to	in	this	lesson.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Sit	with	your	arms	extended	in	front	of	you,	parallel	to	the	floor,	with
thumbs	up	and	palms	facing	each	other.	Now	create	a	figure	8	motion
with	each	arm	like	this:	holding	your	hands	at	about	waist	level,	fingers
held	loosely	together,	turn	your	thumbs	down	and	press	your	arms	out
away	from	each	other	until	they’re	about	shoulder	width	apart;	then
turn	your	thumbs	up	again	and	press	your	arms	toward	each	other	until
the	palms	touch.	You’re	now	back	to	starting	position.
Continue	forming	the	figure	8	until	you’re	sure	of	this	skill.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
On	the	outward	press,	make	sure	that	your	hands	extend	out	to	the	sides
and	back	beyond	your	shoulders.
	
BENEFITS
This	is	a	smooth,	effective	stroke	that	plays	an	important	role	in
treading.	Even	if	you	already	know	how	to	tread,	your	technique	can
probably	stand	improvement.	Wait	till	you	try	this	in	the	water—you’ll
see	what	a	difference	an	efficient	sculling	motion	can	make.
Bicycle	Leg	Motion	for	Treading
Now	for	the	other	half	of	this	skill.	Relax	a	moment,	and	take	this	one
sitting	down.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Sit	up	straight	on	the	edge	of	a	chair.	Then	simply	imagine	that	you’re
pedaling	a	bicycle.	Bring	alternate	legs	up,	knees	bent	toward	your	chest.
As	one	leg	comes	down,	flex	that	foot	(which	means	ankle	is	bent
upward,	with	the	toes	now	pointing	up)	and	raise	the	other.	Continue
alternating	the	legs,	letting	each	foot	rest	only	a	moment	on	the	ground
before	you	raise	it	up	again.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
If	you	need	to,	hold	on	to	the	edge	of	the	seat	for	leverage.	No	need	to
hurry	when	you	kick	this	way,	either	now	or	when	you	get	into	the
water.
	
BENEFITS
This	exercise	works	the	quadriceps	or	thigh	muscles.
Treading	(Sculling	and	Bicycle	Leg	Motion	Combined)
On	land	this	looks	like	an	egg	beater	gone	wild,	but	it	really	works	well
in	the	water,	so	practice	the	coordination	before	you	get	into	the	pool.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
From	a	sitting	position,	begin	the	sculling	motion	with	your	arms.	This
time,	add	the	bicycle	leg	motion,	really	bringing	those	knees	up.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Make	sure	you	don’t	forget	the	proper	form	for	each	individual	skill
when	you	combine	them.	Keep	your	hands	relatively	flat	and	sweep	your
hands	way	out	to	the	sides	and	back	beyond	your	shoulders.	Keep	your
arm	motions	large	and	relaxed.
Dry-land	practice	for	treading
.
W
ATER
	S
KILLS
Warm-up	and	Review	Skills
After	your	conditioning	exercises,	review	your	breathing,	flutter	kicking,
bobbing,	and	prone	skills	while	sitting	on	the	edge	of	the	pool.
Buoyancy	Check
And	now	for	something	completely	different.	This	is	an	interesting	little
test	to	prove	what	I’ve	been	telling	you	all	along:	the	water	makes	you
so	buoyant	that	it’s	actually	difficult	for	a	person	to	sink!
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
That	depends	on	what’s	available.	Ask	the	lifeguard	whether	the	pool
has	an	extension	pole,	which	is	usually	used	as	a	lifesaving	device.	If	not,
improvise	with	a	broom	handle	or	reasonable	facsimile.	For	this	you	also
need	someone	to	hold	the	pole	for	you.	Go	to	water	about	as	deep	as	you
are	tall.	Have	your	helper	hold	the	pole	vertically	near	the	wall,	with	the
tip	touching	bottom.	Wrap	your	feet	around	the	pole,	crossing	them	at
the	ankles;	this	will	prevent	your	legs	from	floating	up.	Grasp	the	pole
with	both	hands,	one	under	the	other.	Take	a	deep	breath,	and	begin	to
exhale	slowly	with	controlled	breathing	as	you	work	your	way	down	the
pole,	hand	under	hand,	as	if	sliding	down	a	rope.	Go	down	as	far	as	is
comfortable,	stay	there	for	a	few	seconds;	then	loosen	your	grip	a	bit
(don’t	let	go	completely)	and	you’ll	pop	right	back	up.
Notice	how	much	effort	it	took	to	get	your	body	underwater—and	to
stay	there.	Did	you	feel	how	easily	you	rose	to	the	surface?	That’s
because	the	buoyancy	of	the	water	naturally	pushed	you	up.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
If	you	can’t	find	a	suitable	pole,	and	if	you’re	practicing	on	your	own,
you	can	use	the	pool	ladder.	Slide	down,	hand	under	hand	along	the
railing;	or	use	the	ladder’s	steps	as	handholds	and	climb	down	that	way.
(You’ll	have	to	hook	your	feet	under	each	step	to	keep	the	lower	part	of
your	body	from	floating	up.)
Make	sure	that	you	take	a	deep	enough	breath	before	you	slide	down,
and	that	you	release	it	underwater	as	slowly	as	you	can.	This	is	where
your	controlled	breathing	comes	in	handy.	While	you’re	down	there,
take	a	look	around,	try	to	absorb	the	feeling	of	being	underwater,	and
relax!
	
BENEFITS
This	will	add	to	your	confidence	and	should	help	you	to	stop	fighting	the
water	and	let	it	start	working	
for
	you.	Many	people	make	the	mistake	of
struggling	in	the	water;	they	try	to	stay	
on	top
	of	it	instead	of	
in	and
through	it
	They	don’t	realize	that	the	water	will	support	the	body	weight
of	an	average	human	being.	That’s	a	fact—whether	you’re	male,	female,
skinny	as	a	rail,	or	big	as	a	whale.	You	don’t	even	have	to	move	to	float;
the	water	will	
hold
	you	up,	if	you	let	it.
Deep-water	Tour
Next,	do	a	little	traveling—to	the	deep	end	of	the	pool.	You’ll	discover
that	everything	you’ve	learned	works	in	deep	water	too.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Since	we’re	moving	into	deep	water,	make	positively	sure	that	someone
capable	of	helping	you	is	around.	My	method	for	getting	you	there	and
back	is	absolutely	safe,	but	regardless	of	your	level	of	ability,	you	should
never	swim	alone.
To	get	there,	begin	by	grasping	the	edge	of	the	pool	with	both	hands.
Then	slide	one	hand	toward	the	deep	end	and	bring	the	other	hand	to
meet	it.	Continue	“side-stepping”	with	your	hands	along	the	edge	of	the
pool	wall	until	the	water	is	at	least	over	your	head.	Now	you’re	going	to
try	some	of	your	warm-up	skills.
Bobbing:
	Holding	on	to	the	edge	of	the	pool	with	both	hands,	bob
down	as	far	as	your	arms	will	let	you.	Make	sure	you	extend	them	as
straight	as	possible.	Repeat	at	least	ten	times.	Now	let	go	with	one	arm
and	bob	another	ten	times;	switch	hands	and	bob	ten	times	again.
Buoyancy	Check:
	Interrupt	your	warm-up	here	to	see	how	the
buoyancy	test	works	in	deeper	water.	Again,	have	someone	hold	the	pole
for	you	(or	improvise	with	the	steps	of	a	ladder).	Cross	your	ankles
around	the	pole	and,	in	a	hand-over-hand	motion,	slide	down	the	pole.
Slide	up—you’ll	pop	up	out	of	the	water.
Flutter	Kicking:
	Holding	on	to	the	wall,	do	some	supine	kicking	first.
Then	do	some	flutter	kicking	in	a	prone	position,	adding	your	rhythmic
breathing.	Remember,	to	give	your	head	enough	room,	you	may	need	to
slide	the	hand	on	your	breathing	side	farther	down	along	the	pool	wall.
Think	about	your	controlled	breathing,	slowing	it	down,	just	as	you	do
in	shallow	water.
Prone	Skills:
	Just	go	as	far	as	you	comfortably	can	this	time.	Start	by
holding	on	to	the	pool	edge	with	one	hand,	your	side	to	the	wall.	Begin
bobbing	up	and	down,	sliding	your	hand	along	the	wall	and	moving
forward,	still	holding	on	to	the	edge.	Then	go	into	the	prone	float
position	and	begin	to	do	the	crawl	stroke	with	your	free	arm.	When
you’re	comfortable	with	that,	add	rhythmic	breathing	and	flutter	kicking
in	whatever	sequence	feels	best	for	you.	Then	turn	around	and	try	this
on	your	other	side.	If	you	can,	let	go	of	the	wall	completely	and	swim
the	crawl	stroke	across	the	width	of	the	pool,	staying	close	to	the	end
wall,	and	with	a	partner	or	lifeguard	nearby.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Try	to	keep	just	as	relaxed	in	deep	water	as	you	are	in	shallow	water.	As
I’ve	said	before,	you	will	naturally	float	in	water.	Here’s	why:
Archimedes’	Law	states	that	a	body	submerged	in	liquid	is	buoyed	up	by
a	force	equal	to	the	weight	of	the	liquid	it	displaces.	The	specific	gravity
of	water	is	1.0;	yours	is	less	than	that.	So	the	water	your	body	displaces
weighs	more	than	you	do,	and	therefore	holds	you	up.	Just	how	buoyant
you	are	depends	upon	your	body	type.	Bones	and	muscle	are	denser	than
adipose	tissue	(fat),	so	thin,	big-boned,	or	muscular	people	are	less
buoyant	than	those	with	a	layer	of	fat.
	
BENEFITS
This	“tour”	may	be	to	a	totally	foreign	country	for	some	of	you;	for
others,	deep	water	is	a	welcome	old	friend.	For	everybody,	it’s	a
reminder	that,	no	matter	how	deep	the	water	is,	it’s	only	water—there’s
just	more	of	it	under	you,	helping	to	buoy	you	up.	Relax	and	let	that
buoyancy	work	for	you.
Treading	(Chin-deep	Water)
Back	to	familiar	ground.	It’s	time	to	learn	how	to	tread	in	the	water.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
To	begin,	stand	in	chest-deep	water	and	review	the	sculling	motion.
Make	a	figure	8	with	each	arm,	keeping	your	arms	at	approximately
chest	level.	
Then	bend	your	knees	and	add	the	bicycle	motion,	keeping
your	knees	up	high,	as	if	you	were	bicycling.	Try	not	to	let	your	feet
touch	bottom.
Treading	in	chin-deep	water
.
When	you	have	the	feel	for	this	sculling	and	bicycling,	walk	your	way
to	chin-deep	water.	You	should	still	be	able	to	touch	ground	when	your
legs	are	straight,	but	not	when	they’re	bent	in	the	bicycling	position.	As
your	feet	come	off	the	pool	bottom,	bend	forward	at	the	waist	in
addition	to	at	the	knees,	so	that	you	have	more	room	to	kick.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Remember	to	use	a	wide,	figure	8	motion	with	your	hands—the	more
water	you	push	down,	the	more	easily	you’ll	stay	up.	If	your	feet	touch
bottom	now	and	then,	just	push	off	again	and	continue.
	
BENEFITS
Treading	is	a	skill	that	may	save	your	life	someday,	so,	although	it’s	not
a	swimming	stroke	per	se,	it’s	important	for	you	to	know.	It	can	also
become	
a	part	of	your	fitness	program,	as	a	relaxing	skill	between	more
strenuous	swims.
Cool-down
Practice	your	prone	skills—individually	if	any	are	still	proving	less	than
perfect,	then	together	in	whatever	combination	you	like.	Next,	put	it	all
together—crawl-stroke	arm	motion,	flutter	kicking,	and	rhythmic
breathing—and	try	to	swim	across	the	entire	width	of	the	pool.	If	you
can’t	do	it,	that’s	okay,	but	it’s	not	too	early	to	begin	to	push	yourself,	to
ask	yourself	to	do	a	little	more	than	you’re	used	to.	After	all,	that’s	how
you	progress.
Homework
Practice	everything	you	can	on	land.	Do	the	crawl-stroke	and	sculling
arm	motions,	either	sitting	down	or	standing.	Add	rhythmic	breathing	to
the	crawl	stroke,	and	the	pistonlike	bicycle	motion	to	the	sculling.
Practice	your	controlled	breathing	in	a	basin	of	water	until	it	feels	more
comfortable	and	natural.	Whenever	you	can,	get	to	the	water	and	do
what	parts	of	the	lesson	that	you	can,	or	that	you	feel	need	work.	When
you’re	ready,	go	on	to	the	next	lesson.
L
ESSON	6
I
n
	this	lesson	you’ll	learn	how	to	float	and	flutter	kick	in	the	supine
(face-up)	position.	You	may	prefer	this	position	to	the	prone	position,
because	here	your	face	remains	above	the	water	line,	and	you	don’t	have
to	coordinate	your	breathing	with	each	stroke.	In	this	lesson	you’ll	also
move	your	treading	to	deep	water.
D
RY
-L
AND
/P
REP
	S
KILLS
First	prepare	yourself	with	some	Swimmers’	Shape-ups.
Review	Skills
Practice	your	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	prone	skills,	and
treading.
Now	you’re	ready	to	begin	something	new—the	first	step	toward
swimming	the	backstroke.
Supine	Float	and	Recovery
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	this	skill	by	lying	in	bed	or	on	the	floor.	Stretch	out	on	your	back,
arms	to	your	sides	with	palms	facing	down.	Notice	how	your	chest	is
slightly	raised	and	your	abdomen	completely	flat.	Everything	is	level	and
you’re	relaxed	because	your	mattress	or	floor	is	supporting	you.	That’s
the	position	you’ll	take	and	the	feeling	you’ll	get	when	you	try	this	in	the
water.
Supine	(back)	float
.
Recovery	to	a	stand	from	the	supine	(back	float)	position
.
So	much	for	the	“float.”	To	practice	the	
recovery
,	stand	up	with	feet
together,	arms	straight	out	to	your	sides	at	shoulder	level	and	parallel	to
the	floor.	To	initiate	the	recovery,	imagine	that	someone	has	punched
you—hard—in	the	stomach.	In	addition	to	uttering	a	few	choice	words,
this	would	cause	you	to	bend	over	at	the	waist	with	the	hips	back,	in
what’s	known	as	a	
pike
	position.	Assume	this	position.	Then	bend	your
knees	and	drop	your	chin.	Reach	behind	you	with	straight	arms	in	a
forward	scooping	motion.	As	your	arms	continue	to	brush	the	back	of
your	knees,	begin	to	straighten	your	legs.	Continue	to	move	your	arms
forward	until	they’re	in	front	of	you,	straightening	and	extending	your
legs	completely	as	you	do	so,	until	you’re	standing	up	straight.	Practice
this	movement	five	times.	Each	time,	repeat	to	yourself	the	key	words,
“Pike,	bend,	scoop,	and	stand.”
If	you’re	working	with	a	partner,	practice	supporting	each	other
during	the	recovery.	The	helper	stands	directly	behind	the	floater	and
places	his	palms,	fingers	down,	at	the	small	of	the	floater’s	back	to
support	him	as	he	recovers.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
To	help	you	get	a	better	feel	for	the	recovery,	pretend	that	the	punch
was	so	hard	that	you	need	to	sit	down.	Grab	in	back	of	you	for	an
imaginary	chair;	then	sit	down	as	you	bend	your	knees.	Finally,	change
your	mind	and	stand	up	instead,	raising	your	arms	in	front	of	you,	as	if
you	were	carrying	a	tray	of	hot	soup,	until	they’re	parallel	to	the	floor.
	
BENEFITS
This	exercise	will	help	you	to	remember	to	stretch	out	and	relax	during
the	supine	float.	The	recovery,	conversely,	will	let	you	return	to	a
standing	position	smoothly	and	safely.
W
ATER
	S
KILLS
Warm-up
Get	your	body	ready	for	the	water	by	doing	some	Swimmers’	Shape-up
exercises	and	by	reviewing	all	of	your	dry-land/prep	skills.
Then	continue	your	warm-up	in	the	water	by	practicing	your	bobbing
and	prone	skills.
Supine	Float	and	Recovery
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
First	practice	just	the	recovery	to	see	how	the	water’s	natural	resistance
will	help	you	return	to	a	standing	position.	Stand	in	chest-deep	water
with	
your	arms	extended	straight	out	to	your	sides,	parallel	to	the
bottom	of	the	pool.	Pike	from	that	punch,	reach	back	and	down,	bending
your	knees	and	dropping	your	head	to	look	at	them;	finish	the	upward
arm	movement	and	straighten	your	legs.	When	that	feels	comfortable,
try	it	for	real	from	a	floating	position	as	follows.
Without	a	Partner:
	Go	to	the	corner	of	the	pool—once	again,	it’s	the
best	seat	in	the	house—and	support	yourself	by	grasping	the	sides	as	you
did	for	the	supine	flutter	kick	(
this	page
).	Squat	down	so	that	your
shoulders	are	at	water	level,	with	one	foot	slightly	in	front	of	the	other.
Put	your	head	back	(rest	it	on	the	gutter	if	you	can),	arch	your	back,	and
push	up	with	the	back	foot;	let	both	legs	float	up	to	the	surface	of	the
water.	Stay	there	for	a	few	seconds;	then	recover	as	you	did	before,	by
bending	your	hips	and	body	forward.	Release	your	hands	from	the	wall
and	scoop	forward	as	your	legs	touch	bottom.
When	you’re	ready,	practice	this	using	only	one	arm	as	a	support.
Stand	with	one	shoulder	against	the	side	of	the	pool	and	grab	the	edge
of	the	wall	with	the	nearer	hand.	Then	bend	down	so	that	the	water	is
up	to	your	shoulders,	tilt	your	head	back,	and	let	your	chest	and	legs	rise
into	the	floating	position;	your	free	arm	is	relaxed	and	floating	palm	up.
Then	recover,	using	one	arm	to	scoop.	Repeat	five	times;	then	practice
holding	on	with	your	other	arm.	Finally,	when	you	feel	ready,	let	go	of
the	wall	altogether	and	use	both	your	arms	to	recover.
With	a	Partner:
	The	floater	stands	with	his	arms	out	to	his	sides,
palms	up.	With	his	partner	supporting	him	at	the	small	of	the	back,
fingers	pointed	downward,	the	floater	begins	the	supine	float	as
described	above.	Float	for	at	least	five	seconds;	then	recover	to	a
standing	position.	Repeat,	adding	a	few	seconds	each	time,	until	you	can
float	for	fifteen	seconds.	Then	switch	with	your	partner.	When	this
position	feels	comfortable,	try	using	gradually	less	support	until	you	are
floating	unassisted.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
In	the	recovery,	the	more	you	pike,	the	easier	it	will	be	to	go	from	a
horizontal	to	a	vertical	position.	If	your	partner	is	having	trouble	piking
enough,	put	your	hands	around	his	or	her	waist,	fingers	forward,	as	you
did	during	the	dry-land	practice.	During	the	recovery,	pull	back	gently	to
help	the	piking	action.
Another	way	to	practice	this	skill	is	to	hold	a	kickboard	over	your
abdomen	as	you	float.	Hold	it	lightly,	with	your	fingertips	just	resting	on
the	side	edges.	Then	bring	the	board	to	one	side	of	you	and	hold	it	there
with	one	hand	while	you	scoop	with	the	other	hand	to	perform	the
recovery.	As	your	feet	approach	the	bottom,	let	go	of	the	kickboard.
Check	to	see	that	you	aren’t	doing	the	Irish	jig	(or	any	other	dance)
during	the	recovery.	Keep	your	legs	primly	together	the	whole	time:
while	you’re	floating,	while	they’re	bending,	and	while	they’re
straightening	out.	And	make	sure	that	both	feet	touch	bottom	together.
Remember,	form	counts.
	
BENEFITS
The	supine	float	is	the	basis	for	swimming	on	your	back.	This	is	also
another	step	in	establishing	your	water	confidence.	And	since	you’ve
learned	the	recovery	to	a	stand,	you	know	that	you	can	safely	right
yourself	at	any	time.
Supine	Float	with	Flutter	Kicking
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
To	begin	the	supine	float,	walk	backward,	lean	back,	and	lift	your	feet
from	the	floor	of	the	pool.	Once	you’re	floating,	begin	to	flutter	kick.	As
before,	use	a	partner	or	the	wall	to	assist	you	if	you	need	to	at	first;	then
gradually	use	less	and	less	help	until	you	can	float	and	flutter	kick
unassisted.	Practice	until	comfortable.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Try	to	get	a	relaxed,	stretched,	and	streamlined	feeling	along	your	body
and	all	across	your	abdomen,	chest,	shoulders,	and	upper	arms.	Tuck
your	hips	in	and	under.	Avoid	“sitting”	in	the	water;	don’t	bend	at	the
waist	until	you’re	ready	to	recover	to	a	stand.	Keep	your	chest	high	and
your	head	back.	Arch	your	back	slightly—especially	if	your	hips	tend	to
sink.
Remember	your	kicking	form—legs	straight,	ankles	relaxed,	just
making	the	water	“boil.”	You	can	sneak	a	peek	at	your	legs	in	the	supine
position,	so	use	the	opportunity	to	acquire	a	feel	for	how	a	perfect	flutter
kick	is	done.
	
BENEFITS
Adding	the	flutter	kick	to	the	supine	float	helps	you	maintain	a	better
body	position:	chest	high,	legs	close	to	the	surface.	It	also	prepares	you
for	the	next	step	in	learning	how	to	swim	on	your	back—the	sculling
arm	motion.
Deep-water	Treading
HOW	TO	DO	IT
	
Without	a	Partner:
	Standing	in	chest-deep	water,	with	one	side
toward	the	pool	wall,	hold	on	to	the	edge	with	the	hand.	Begin	the
bicycle	leg	motion,	and	start	sculling	with	your	free	arm.	Tread	water	for
approximately	one	minute;	then	grasp	the	wall	with	both	hands,	turn
around,	and	tread	for	another	minute,	sculling	with	your	other	arm.
Next,	with	your	hand	still	on	the	wall,	relax	into	the	prone	float	(or
supine	float,	if	you	prefer).	Go	completely	limp,	and	hold	your	body
absolutely	motionless	while	you	exhale	during	the	prone	float.	When
you	need	to	come	up	for	air,	recover,	using	your	free	arm	to	pull	you
back	up	to	a	vertical	position;	immediately	resume	treading	water.
Repeat	the	treading	on	the	other	side.	Keep	alternating	sides,	lifting	your
arm	and	letting	go	of	the	wall—for	a	second	or	two	at	first,	then	for
gradually	longer	periods	until	you	feel	comfortable	sculling	with	both
arms.
With	a	Partner:
	Take	this	intermediate	step.	Both	partners	face	the
same	direction,	holding	on	to	the	wall	with	the	nearer	hand.	The	person
in	front	is	the	treader;	the	one	in	back	is	the	supporter.	The	supporter
grips	the	treader’s	bathing	suit	by	the	strap	or	by	the	waist	and	pulls
upward.	The	treader	begins	to	bicycle	with	his	or	her	legs	and	to	scull
with	the	free	arm.	Then,	when	the	treader	feels	the	upward	tug	on	the
suit,	he	or	she	lets	go	of	the	wall	and	starts	to	scull	with	both	arms	at	the
same	time.	Alternate	positions	five	times;	then	gradually	lighten	the
support	and	let	your	partner	tread	water	more	and	more	on	his	or	her
own.
When	you	feel	comfortable	doing	this	exercise	in	shallow	water,	move
into	deep	water	(as	you	did	for	the	buoyancy	check)	and	practice	this
skill	there.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Remember,	this	is	the	same	thing	you’ve	done	in	shallow	water.	The
buoyancy	check	showed	you	how	difficult	it	is	to	sink	even	if	you	do
absolutely	nothing.	By	treading,	you	should	stay	up	easily.	So	relax.	Use
a	slow,	sweeping	motion,	crossing	your	hands	in	front—and	reaching
your	back	in	order	to	get	the	most	vertical	thrust.
	
BENEFITS
Your	ability	to	tread	in	deep	water	enables	you	to	remain	calm	and
afloat	whenever	your	other	strokes	are	interrupted—say,	by	another
swimmer.	Any	time	any	disturbance	changes	your	position	in	the	water,
just	tread	until	you	can	resume	normal	swimming.	When	you’re
treading,	your	arms	and	legs	stay	completely	underwater—that’s	a	very
efficient	use	of	energy,	which	is	why	you	can	tread	water	for	so	long,
especially	when	you	combine	it	with	the	prone	or	supine	float.
Cool-down
Review	all	your	skills,	both	the	new	and	the	old—prone	float,	kicking,
recovery,	crawl	stroke	with	rhythmic	breathing	(separately,	then
together),	treading	in	chin-deep	water,	supine	float,	and	supine	kicking
on	the	wall.
Homework
In	front	of	a	mirror,	practice	your	form	for	the	crawl	stroke,	prone	and
supine	recovery,	and	sculling.	Do	your	flutter	kicking	and	bicycling	in
spare	moments.	Review	your	rhythmic	breathing	in	a	basin	of	water.
Concentrate	on	stretching	out	your	arms,	shoulders,	and	sides	when	you
exercise—you’ll	need	those	muscles	even	more	for	the	next	lesson.
L
ESSON	7
N
ext	you’ll	learn	a	variation	of	the	sculling	motion	that	you	can	do
while	on	your	back.	And	you’ll	get	ready	for	a	new	kind	of	plunge	into
the	water—a	head-first	entry.
D
RY
-L
AND
/P
REP
	S
KILLS
Begin	as	you	usually	do,	with	Swimmers’	Shape-ups,	to	prepare	you
mentally	and	physically	for	water	action.
Review	Skills
Practice	your	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	prone	skills,	treading,
and	supine	skills.
Supine	Sculling
This	is	one	of	the	intermediate	steps	in	learning	the	backstroke	and	is	a
variation	of	the	sculling	motion	that	you	have	already	used	for	treading.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Stand	up	straight	and	begin	to	do	the	sculling	motion—figure	8s	with
both	arms—that	you	learned	for	treading.	Now	modify	it	a	bit:	begin	to
make	smaller	movements,	about	shoulder	width	apart.	Then	gradually
drop	your	hands	to	hip	level,	and	finally	bring	your	hands	behind	your
hips,	still	forming	figure	8s.
Practicing	sculling
.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
This	is	a	variation	of	the	treading	arm	motion,	so	it	shouldn’t	present	a
problem.	And	supine	sculling	will	feel	more	natural	underwater,	where
you	will	use	it	to	propel	you	backward	while	your	feet	flutter	kick.	For
more	power	and	leverage,	remember	to	keep	your	hands	sculling	as
close	under	your	hips	as	possible.
	
BENEFITS
This	arm	motion	will	help	you	to	feel	more	balanced	and	more
comfortable	on	your	back.
Sculling	is	also	a	great	and	relaxing	way	to	really	tone	up	your	arms.
So	don’t	give	it	short	shrift.	It’s	simple	but	effective,	and	it	has	a	part	to
play	in	your	personal	fitness	program.
Introduction	to	Head-First	Entries	(Diving)
Until	now,	you’ve	been	entering	the	water	feet	first.	Head-first	entries
are	a	more	efficient	way	to	initiate	prone	skills,	are	more	exciting,	and
are	fun!
The	progression	of	head-first	entries	is	called	the	diving	sequence.	For
shallow	surface	and	sitting	entries,	your	feet	begin	in	the	water	rather
than	on	the	pool	deck.	For	safety	considerations,	these	entries	should
take	place	in	water	at	least	five	feet	deep.	All	other	dives	should	be	done
in	water	not	less	than	nine	feet	deep,	as	recommended	by	the	American
National	Red	Cross.	These	dives	include	kneeling,	tip-in,	standing,	and
racing,	and	will	be	highlighted	in	Part	Three.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	by	sitting	up	straight	in	a	chair.	With	feet	shoulder-width	apart
and	knees	bent,	rise	up	on	your	toes,	hips	back,	and	heels	resting	against
the	legs	of	the	chair.	Extend	your	arms	straight	in	front	of	you	and	put
your	head	down,	as	you	would	for	the	prone	glide.	Make	sure	that	your
arms	cover	your	ears,	and	that	your	chin	is	tucked	to	your	chest.	Then
just	straighten	your	knees	and	stand	up	into	the	prone	glide.	Finally,
practice	your	recovery	to	a	stand.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
A	head-first	entry	is	really	only	an	extension	of	the	push-off	into	the
prone	float,	which	you	already	know.	To	help	you	to	keep	your	chin
tucked	firmly	into	your	chest,	imagine	that	you’re	holding	a	gold	pencil
there,	or	something	else	that	you	wouldn’t	want	to	drop.
W
ATER
	S
KILLS

Warm-up
Do	some	Swimmers’	Shape-ups	on	dry	land	or	in	shallow	water	followed
by	a	review	of	these	skills	while	pool-side:	breathing,	flutter	kicking,
bobbing,	prone	skills,	treading,	and	supine	skills.
Then	continue	the	warming-up	process	in	the	water.
Review	Skills
Practice	your	bobbing,	prone	skills,	treading,	and	supine	skills.
Supine	Sculling	with	Flutter	Kicking
Now	to	add	some	arm	and	leg	action	to	the	back	float.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Standing	in	chest-deep	water,	review	the	sculling	arm	motion	that	you
learned	as	part	of	treading.	Make	figure	8s	with	each	arm,	weaving	them
first	away,	then	toward	each	other.	Gradually	bring	the	motion	down
around	your	hips,	making	the	loops	smaller	and	smaller,	then	move	your
hands	behind	your	hips.	Next,	begin	to	walk	backward	(this	is	the
direction	you’ll	be	moving	while	on	your	back),	as	you	push	water
forward.
Next,	stand	with	one	foot	slightly	in	front	of	the	other	and	push	off
into	the	supine	float,	still	sculling;	after	a	few	sculls,	add	a	flutter	kick	to
help	your	legs	stay	up	and	to	help	propel	you	through	the	water.	When
you’re	ready,	recover	to	a	standing	position.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
This	is	a	matter	of	getting	your	coordination	together.	You	will	probably
find	it	easier	than	the	crawl	stroke,	where	you	have	to	coordinate
rhythmic	breathing,	and	where	your	arms	are	moving	alternately.	Here,
your	head	stays	above	water,	and	both	arms	are	doing	the	same	thing	at
the	same	time,	so	this	should	be	an	easy	stroke,	and	a	welcome	change.
If	you	need	it,	have	your	partner	support	you,	or	support	yourself	on
the	pool	wall	as	you	did	when	you	learned	the	supine	float.	Do	whatever
is	comfortable.	If	you	find	it	easier	to	begin	kicking	first,	then	add	the
sculling,	go	ahead	and	do	it	that	way.	But	when	you	combine	the	two
skills,	don’t	concentrate	on	one	to	the	exclusion	of	the	other.	Make	sure
you’re	doing	them	both	simultaneously,	in	a	continuous	motion.
Try	to	keep	splashing	to	a	minimum;	it’s	a	waste	of	time	and	energy.
Remember,	in	order	to	move	forward,	you	have	to	push	water,	not	air.
	
BENEFITS
This	is	the	final	step	before	learning	the	elementary	backstroke.	Your
coordination	should	be	superb	by	now.
Introduction	to	Shallow	Surface	Entry
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	by	practicing	the	prone	glide	and	recovery.	As	you	do,	be
particularly	conscious	of	the	push-off	from	the	wall	and	of	your
streamlined	body	position.
Then	sit	on	the	edge	of	the	pool	or	on	the	top	step	of	the	ladder	or	the
steps	at	the	shallow	end.	Push	off	from	the	side	of	the	pool,	as	you	did
before	to	start	the	prone	glide,	but	this	time	tuck	your	chin	tightly	to
your	chest	and	angle	your	arms	down	about	30	degrees	to	propel	your
body	just	beneath	the	surface.	As	you	start	to	lose	momentum,	arch	your
back	slightly	and	lift	your	chin	a	little	to	the	surface	in	a	prone	glide.
Recover	to	a	stand.	Repeat	this	shallow	surface	dive	at	least	five	times,
or	until	you’re	comfortable	with	it.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
If	you	have	trouble	with	this	part,	relax	and	go	on	to	something	else,
then	come	back	to	the	shallow	surface	dive	in	a	little	while.	If	you’ve
never	dove	before,	getting	over	this	first	hurdle	is	the	most	challenging
part,	so	don’t	push	yourself	too	fast.
If	you	get	water	up	your	nose,	check	to	see	that	you’re	beginning	to
exhale,	expecially	through	your	nostrils,	just	before	your	head	enters	the
water.
Shallow	surface	entry
.
Speaking	of	heads,	make	sure	to	keep	yours	tucked	down.	Remember
that	gold	pencil	you’re	holding.	Raising	the	head	is	the	single	most
common	fault	divers	make,	and	it’s	the	cause	of	all	those	belly	whops.
The	body	follows	the	head	through	space,	so	if	the	head	pops	up,	so	does
the	body—and,	in	a	dive,	you	want	to	enter	the	water	in	a	smooth,
downward	arc.	Get	into	the	habit	of	really	tensing	your	abdominal	and
leg	muscles	when	diving,	for	an	extended,	clean	body	line.
Whenever	you’re	making	a	head-first	entry,	be	sure	that	your	arms
cover	your	ears,	and	that	your	hands	are	stretched	out	straight	in	front
of	you	to	protect	your	head.	If	your	hands	tend	to	separate	on	entry,
hook	your	thumbs	or	grasp	one	wrist	with	your	other	hand.
Cool-down
Practice	all	your	skills—supine,	prone,	and	treading—for	a	few	minutes,
paying	particular	attention	to	your	form.	Remember	to	be	conscious	of
the	
whole	skill
	and	not	just	the	individual	parts—think	about	your
kicking	and	arm	motion	together.	If	you	need	to,	go	back	and	practice
the	parts	individually	until	you’re	sure	of	them.	Add	rhythmic	breathing
when	you	practice	prone	flutter	kicking	on	the	wall;	add	controlled
breathing	during	the	prone	float.	Do	some	push-offs	and	practice	a	few
head-first	entries,	using	the	pull-up	exercise	instead	of	the	stairs	to	get
you	out	of	the	water.
Homework
Keep	practicing	your	rhythmic	breathing	in	a	basin	of	water,	and	when
you	review	your	crawl	stroke	on	land.	This	is	the	part	most	people	have
trouble	with,	no	matter	how	long	they’ve	been	swimming.	Remember
the	“Law	of	Opposites.”	Practice	your	other	skills,	too—sculling,
treading,	bobbing,	and	flutter	kicking—while	watching	TV	or	in	front	of
the	mirror.	Not	only	will	this	improve	your	form,	it’ll	help	tone	and
strengthen	your	muscles.
L
ESSON	8
I
n	this	lesson	you’ll	learn	the	elementary	backstroke.	This	is	primarily	a
resting	or	survival	stroke	and	is	quite	easy	and	pleasant	to	do.	Since	both
arms	do	the	same	thing	at	the	same	time,	it’s	simpler	than	the
alternating	(“windmill”)	backstroke	that	you’ll	learn	next.	Eventually,
the	elementary-backstroke	arm	motion	will	be	combined	with	a	new
kick,	which	is	explained	in	the	next	lesson.
This	lesson	will	also	teach	you	how	to	dive	from	a	sitting	position,
which	is	the	next	step	in	learning	this	other	new	skill.
Of	course,	you’ll	also	continue	to	practice	and	improve	the	prone	and
supine	skills	you	already	know,	as	well	as	your	treading.
D
RY
-L
AND
/P
REP
	S
KILLS
Do	your	favorite	Swimmers’	Shape-ups,	paying	particular	attention	to
arm	circles	to	help	prepare	you	for	the	elementary	backstroke.	Then	add
other	arm	and	shoulder	stretchers.
Review	Skills
Practice	your	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	prone	skills,	treading,	and
supine	skills.
Elementary	Backstroke	Arm	Motion
You’ll	like	this	one—even	on	dry	land	it	gives	you	a	nice	stretch,	but
wait	until	you	try	it	in	water	and	you	feel	the	restful	glide	from	this
stroke.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Stand	up	straight,	with	your	back	arched	slightly	and	your	hands	at	your
sides.	This	will	be	your	resting,	or	
glide
,	position.	For	the	
recovery
	of	this
stroke,	imagine	that	you	have	an	itch	all	along	the	sides	of	your	torso.
Slide	your	fingertips	along	your	sides,	keeping	your	elbows	back	and
close	to	your	body	as	they	bend.	When	your	fingertips	are	near	your
armpits	and	you	just	can’t	go	any	higher,	straighten	your	arms,	still
keeping	them	as	far	back	as	they’ll	go,	and	raise	them	in	a	V	shape,	out
behind	your	
head,	palms	facing	downward	and	out.	Pause	a	second	(this
is	the	
catch
	of	the	stroke)	and	try	to	reach	back	another	inch.
The	elementary	backstroke.

The	glide
.
The	recovery
.
The	catch	position	before	the	pull
.
For	the	power	part	of	the	stroke,	or	the	
pull
,	keep	your	arms	straight
and	snap	them	down	quickly	so	that	they	slap	your	outer	thighs.	Hold
them	in	this	position	for	a	second	(the	glide)	before	you	begin	the	cycle
all	over	again.	Repeat	five	to	ten	times	while	standing	in	place;	then
walk	backward	as	you	do	the	arm	stroke,	to	simulate	the	flutter	kicking
that	you’ll	be	doing	in	the	water.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Make	sure	that	you	slide	your	hands	
along
	your	sides	and	that	you	keep
your	chest	forward.	If	you’re	wearing	clothing	with	a	side	seam,	run
your	fingers	along	the	seam	as	you	raise	your	arms	in	the	recovery.	To
help	you	remember	the	motion,	repeat	the	key	words	“up	(recovery),	out
(catch),	together	(pull),	and	glide.”	You	can	also	practice	this	stroke
while	lying	on	the	floor	or	on	your	bed.
	
BENEFITS
On	land,	the	elementary	backstroke	gives	you	an	excellent	stretch	all
along	the	upper	chest	and	through	the	arms,	and	it	develops	your	triceps
muscles.	(This	stroke	will	have	even	more	of	a	toning	effect	when	you
put	the	extra	resistance	of	the	water	to	work	for	you.)
Sitting	Dive	Entry
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Again,	review	the	prone	float	and	diving	position	while	sitting	on	a
chair.	Extend	your	arms	forward,	drop	your	chin	to	your	chest,	and
cover	your	ears	with	your	arms.	Hook	your	thumbs	together	and	point
your	fingers	downward	at	a	30-to	45-degree	angle.	Lean	forward	and
press	your	heels	against	the	chair	legs.	(Later,	you’ll	push	off	from	the
pool	trough,	lifting	yourself	into	a	piked-standing	position,	and	ending
up	in	the	water	in	a	prone	glide.)	Then	simulate	the	recovery	to	a	stand.
Repeat	five	times.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Stretch	and	straighten	your	body	as	you	stand	up	to	make	sure	that	you
don’t	tend	to	“collapse”	in	the	water	later	on.	Remember	to	keep	your
head	down—chin	tucked	to	chest,	body	streamlined	in	a	perfect	stretch.
WATER	SKILLS

Warm-up
Again,	do	some	arm	and	shoulder	stretches	during	the	Swimmers’	Shape-
ups.	Then	practice	these	skills	pool-side:	breathing,	flutter	kicking,
bobbing,	prone	skills,	treading,	and	supine	skills.
Review	Skills
Once	you’re	in	the	water,	keep	moving,	and	practice	your	bobbing,
prone	skills,	treading,	and	supine	skills.
Elementary	Backstroke	with	Flutter	Kick
Let’s	see	how	great	this	stroke	feels	in	the	water.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Review	this	stroke	while	standing	in	chest-deep	water.	Begin	in	the	glide
position	with	your	arms	down	at	your	sides,	palms	against	your	thighs.
Start	the	
recovery:
	bring	both	your	arms	up,	bending	the	elbows,	until
your	fingertips	are	as	close	to	your	armpits	as	you	can	get	them.	Then
begin	to	straighten	your	arms	and	extend	them	up,	out,	and	back	(think
of	the	statue	
Winged	Victory
).	Try	to	move	them	back	a	little	more	for	the
catch
.	Then,	for	the	
pull
,	snap	your	arms	straight	down	until	they	slap
your	thighs.	Repeat	five	times.
Next,	bend	your	knees	so	that	the	water	is	just	below	your	chin.	Arch
your	back	slightly	and	practice	the	elementary	backstroke	while	walking
backward.	Begin	to	think	about	coordinating	your	breathing	with	the
stroke:	inhale	as	your	arms	reach	up	and	your	chest	expands,	and	exhale
as	your	arms	snap	down.	Practice	this	five	times.
The	next	step	is	to	add	the	supine	flutter	kick	to	the	float.	First,	review
the	recovery	to	a	stand	a	few	times.	Then,	as	you	begin	the	float,	start	to
flutter	kick.	Next,	add	the	elementary-backstroke	arm	motion.
Remember,	reach	up	and	back	in	the	water,	hold	a	second,	then	snap
your	arms	down	to	your	sides,	keeping	them	under	the	water	the	entire
time.	If	you	need	to,	hold	on	to	the	wall	with	one	hand	at	first	and
practice	a	few	strokes	with	one	arm	at	a	time,	alternately.	Or	practice
with	your	partner,	using	the	train-and-engineer	position	you	used	to
learn	the	prone	skills.	
Either	way,	use	gradually	less	assistance	until
you’re	eventually	doing	the	stroke	on	your	own.
Remember,	if	you	find	it	easier,	you	can	begin	the	stroke	with	either
the	arm	motion	or	the	flutter	kick.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
After	you	snap	your	arms	down,	hold	them	by	your	side	a	moment	so
you	can	really	feel	the	glide	that	this	stroke	gives	you.	You’ll	see	how
powerful	the	stroke	can	be	and	what	a	restful,	fluid	motion	you	can	get
in	the	water.
	
BENEFITS
This	smooth,	flowing	stroke	gets	you	accustomed	to	swimming	on	your
back	and	so	leads	right	up	to	the	familiar	windmill	backstroke.	In	the
water,	the	resistance	will	make	your	arm,	chest,	and	shoulder	muscles
work	even	harder	than	on	land,	thus	helping	to	fight	flabby	arms	and
droopy	chest.
Sitting	Dive	Entry
When	first	practicing	this	head-first	entry,	you	may	want	to	remove	your
goggles,	if	you’re	used	to	wearing	them,	since	they	can	sometimes	shift
annoyingly	from	the	impact	of	entering	the	water.	Or,	if	you	want	to
keep	your	goggles,	just	wear	them	a	bit	tighter	than	usual.	For	safety’s
sake,	always	make	sure	that	you’re	diving	into	water	that’s	at	least	five
feet	deep.
Sitting	dive	entry.
Initial	position	and	entry
.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Practice	a	few	shallow	surface	entries;	then	push	up	and	exit	the	pool.
Sit	on	the	edge	of	the	pool,	resting	your	heels	on	the	back	wall	of	the
gutter,	with	toes	curled	around	the	gutter’s	edge,	or	trough.	(If	your	pool
has	no	gutter,	find	a	ladder	rung	or	other	suitable	way	to	brace
yourself.)	Extend	your	arms,	locking	thumbs	and	covering	your	ears	with
your	arms.	Point	your	hands	down	at	a	30-to	45-degree	angle,	tuck	your
chin	to	your	chest,	and	look	at	the	water’s	surface	three	to	five	feet	in
front	of	you.	Begin	to	exhale	as	you	bend	forward	from	the	waist	and
roll	into	the	water,	pushing	against	the	gutter	with	your	heels	and	toes
and	straightening	your	legs	and	body	as	you	do	so.
Enter	in	a	streamlined	position,	making	a	downward	arc	in	the	water
and	keeping	your	arms	together	and	extended	in	front	of	you,	head	still
down.	Then	point	your	fingers	upward	to	help	your	ascent	to	the
surface.	When	you	approach	the	surface,	you’ll	be	in	the	prone	glide
position.	Recover	to	a	stand,	or	do	a	few	crawl	strokes	and	then	stand.
Rest,	and	repeat	at	least	five	times,	using	the	push-up	exit	from	the	pool.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Practice,	practice,	practice!	Other	than	that,	the	most	important	thing	to
remember	is	to	keep	your	body	as	taut	and	streamlined	as	possible	so
that	you	enter	the	water	cleanly	like	a	knife,	fingers	first.	Tighten	your
abdominal	and	leg	muscles	and	point	your	toes	hard.	The	head	leads	the
body,	so	keep	your	head	tucked	down	until	you’re	ready	to	surface.
Make	sure	you	keep	your	eyes	open	at	all	times	so	that	you	know
exactly	where	you	are	during	the	entire	dive.	Keep	your	body	extended
during	the	dive,	especially	during	the	push-off.	Put	as	much	spring	and
energy	into	it	as	possible,	as	if	you	were	sprinting	for	a	bus.
Recovery	to	the	surface	to	prone	float	position
.
	
BENEFITS
Perhaps	learning	to	dive	has	been	your	particular	stumbling	block.	This
can	be	the	case	even	for	good	swimmers.	But	thinking	of	it	as	an
extension	of	the	push-off	and	prone	glide	you	know	so	well	will	help	you
to	overcome	any	hesitation	you’ve	felt	up	to	now.	Remember,	your
mental	outlook	is	an	important	as	your	physical	performance.
Entering	the	water	head	first	puts	your	body	in	the	correct,
streamlined	position	for	beginning	the	crawl	stroke	(and	the	other	prone
skills).	And	the	momentum	from	the	dive	drives	your	body	forward,
giving	you	a	boost	to	begin	the	crawl	stroke.
Cool-down
Review	all	the	prone	and	supine	skills	you’ve	learned	thus	far,	plus
treading.	Run	through	each	component	separately	if	you	need	to
concentrate	on	some	aspect	of	your	form;	then	combine	them	to	work	on
your	coordination.	Finish	with	a	few	practice	surface	dives	or	push-offs,
always	surfacing	into	a	streamlined	prone	glide,	and	perhaps	adding	a
few	crawl	strokes.	Remember	your	rhythmic	breathing	while	swimming
the	crawl.	If	you	feel	particularly	energetic,	try	a	sitting	dive	from	the
pool	deck	to	finish	off	your	lesson.
Homework
Go	over	all	your	skills,	preferably	in	front	of	a	mirror	if	there’s	no
partner	around	to	check	your	form.	Stretch	your	body	as	long	as	it	will
go	during	the	elementary	backstroke.	And	think	about	your	streamlined
position	while	you	do	the	crawl-stroke	arm	motion,	first	by	itself,	then
with	rhythmic	breathing.
L
ESSON	9
I
n	this	lesson	the	elementary-backstroke	arm	motion	combines	with
another	leg	motion—the	whip	kick.	This	is	a	new,	more	efficient	version
of	the	old	frog	kick	that	you	may	have	seen	or	learned.	First	you’ll	learn
this	kick	alone;	then	you’ll	see	how	to	coordinate	it	with	the	elementary-
backstroke	arm	motion,	with	and	without	assistance.
D
RY
-L
AND
/P
REP
	S
KILLS
Do	a	few	Swimmers’	Shape-ups	to	begin.
Review	Skills
Practice	your	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	prone	skills,	treading,
and	supine	skills.
Whip	Kick	(Supine	Position)
Different	from	any	kick	that	you’ve	learned	so	far,	this	is	the	leg	motion
that	you’ll	be	using	along	with	the	elementary-backstroke	arm	motion
that	you	learned	in	the	last	lesson.	The	good	news	is	that	both	legs	do
the	same	thing	at	the	same	time,	so	you’ve	only	one	set	of	movements	to
think	about.
The	whip	kick.
Knees	bent,	legs	together,	heels	dropped	toward	floor
.
Legs	snap	together
.
Finish	with	legs	together,	fully	extended,	toes	pointed
.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Sit	up	straight	in	a	chair,	grasping	either	the	edge	of	the	seat	or	the	arms
for	leverage.	Press	your	legs	together	and	lift	them	straight	up	off	the
floor,	toes	pointed,	similar	to	when	you	begin	flutter	kicking.	Keep	your
knees	and	thighs	close	and	parallel	to	each	other;	then,	bending	your
knees,	drop	your	heels	toward	the	floor.	Keeping	your	knees	close,	flex
your	feet	and	rotate	them	outward,	separating	them	by	about	hip	width.
For	the	propulsion	part	of	the	kick,	move	your	lower	legs	in	an	outward
semicircle,	snapping	them	toward	each	other	as	they	straighten	at	the
knees.	End	with	your	legs	together,	in	a	fully	extended	position	with	toes
pointed	and	streamlined;	glide	for	a	second.	Repeat	this	five	times;	rest;
then	repeat	another	five	times.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Try	to	keep	your	knees	as	parallel	as	possible.	Let	them	come	apart
slightly	when	you	rotate	your	feet	outward,	but	they	should	still	be
closer	together	than	your	feet.	Your	feet	and	calves	should	do	most	of
the	moving;	the	thighs	do	move,	but	not	as	much.	To	help	you	remember
the	action,	repeat	the	key	words:	“Bend,	extend,	snap	together,	and
glide.”
	
BENEFITS
Since	this	is	so	different	from	flutter	kicking,	getting	the	coordination
correct	on	land	is	especially	important.	The	whip	kick	is	useful	for
trimming	and	toning	the	abdominal	muscles	and	the	legs,	especially	the
inner	and	outer	thighs—areas	hard	to	reach	with	other	forms	of	exercise.
It	also	gets	your	knee	and	hip	joints	moving	in	a	new	plane,	which	will
help	keep	them	from	stiffening	up.
NOTE
:	The	whip	kick	is	a	relatively	new,	more	effective	version	of	the	old
frog	kick.	If	you	prefer	to	use	the	frog	kick	for	any	reason	(you	already
know	it,	or	you	have	a	knee	problem)	turn	to	
this	page
,	where	it	is
described	as	an	alternate	kick	to	use	with	the	breaststroke.
Elementary	Backstroke	with	Whip	Kick
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Review	the	arm	motion	again:	bend,	extend,	snap	down,	and	glide.	Then
review	the	leg	motion:	bend,	extend,	snap	together,	and	glide.	Notice
that	
the	key	words	are	almost	exactly	the	same,	because	both	arms	and
legs	move	together.
First	practice	while	balancing	yourself	on	the	edge	of	a	chair.	Do	both
motions	at	once—as	you	bend	your	knees,	bend	your	arms;	as	you
extend	and	straighten	your	legs,	extend	and	straighten	your	arms;	as	you
bring	your	legs	together,	bring	your	arms	down;	and	as	you	hold	your
legs	together,	hold	your	arms	at	your	sides	for	the	glide.
Next,	try	the	coordination	standing	up.	Begin	with	your	arms	down	at
your	sides,	legs	straight	and	together.	Then	bend,	extend,	and	straighten
arms	and	legs	simultaneously—jump	with	legs	apart	for	the	extension,
then	jump	and	bring	your	legs	back	together	for	the	snap.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Both	the	arms	and	the	legs	move	in	a	simultaneous,	similar	motion.	For
the	legs,	repeat	the	keywords	to	yourself:	“Bend,	extend,	snap,	and
glide.”	This	corresponds	to	“recover,	catch,	pull,	and	glide”	for	the	arms.
Begin	to	coordinate	your	breathing	with	your	arm	and	leg	movements
for	a	steadier,	more	regular	stroke:	inhale	as	you	bend	your	legs	and
stretch	your	arms	up,	and	exhale	as	you	snap	down	with	both	arms	and
legs.
	
BENEFITS
This	particular	set	of	movements	stretches	your	shoulders,	sides,	arms,
and	entire	rib	cage.	And	the	jumping-jack	action	will	help	strengthen
your	thighs.
W
ATER
	S
KILLS
Warm-up
Concentrate	on	stretching	out	your	arms	and	sides	during	the	Swimmers’
Shape-ups.
Review	the	swimming	skills	you’ve	learned	so	far,	beginning	on	dry
land:	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	prone	skills,	treading,	and
supine	skills.
Continue	the	warm-up	in	the	water	with	bobbing,	prone	skills,
treading,	and	supine	skills.
Whip	Kick	(Supine	Position)
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	by	standing	with	your	back	against	the	pool	wall,	your	arms
extended	out	away	from	your	sides,	and	your	hands	grasping	the	pool
edge	as	you	do	when	practicing	the	supine	flutter	kick.	Pull	your	legs	up
and,	keeping	them	together,	extend	them	just	below	the	surface	of	the
water,	with	your	toes	pointed.	Keeping	your	knees	and	thighs
underwater,	flex	your	feet	and	drop	your	heels	down	toward	the	bottom
of	the	pool.	Next,	rotate	and	flex	your	feet	away	from	each	other	so	that
your	toes	face	outward.	Then	snap	your	legs	together	in	a	semicircular
motion,	being	careful	not	to	break	the	surface	of	the	water.	Hold	the
extended	position	for	a	moment	before	you	begin	the	next	kick.	Do	ten
kicks;	rest,	then	do	ten	more.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
If	you	already	know	the	frog	kick,	remember	that	this	new	version	is
narrower.	The	power	comes	not	so	much	from	the	snap	of	your	legs
together	as	from	the	pressure	exerted	when	your	feet	form	the
semicircles.
Make	sure	that	your	legs	come	completely	together;	try	to	feel	your
ankles	touch.
As	you	do	the	whip	kick,	keep	these	key	words	in	mind:	“Up	(bend
knees),	out	(extend	legs),	together	(snap	legs	together),	and	glide.”
The	“egg-beater”	variation	(see	
this	page
)	is	an	excellent	way	to
improve	your	whip	kick	and	to	strengthen	your	inner	thigh	muscles.	(It
can	also	be	used	during	treading	as	an	alternate	to	the	bicycling	motion.)
To	do	it,	go	to	the	deep	end	and,	extending	your	arm	straight	out	to	your
side,	hold	on	to	the	pool	wall	with	one	hand.	Holding	yourself	in	a
nearly	vertical	position,	do	the	whip	kick	with	the	leg	nearer	the	wall.
Try	to	touch	the	wall	with	your	foot	while	keeping	your	knee	directly
under	your	chest,	then	straighten	your	leg	and	extend	it	under	your
body.	Switch	hands	and	repeat	on	the	other	side.	Then,	while	facing	the
pool	wall	and	holding	on	to	the	edge	with	both	hands,	move	both	legs	in
“egg-beater”	fashion	so	that,	instead	of	bending	and	extending	together,
they	rotate	alternately:	as	one	leg	bends,	the	other	is	straight.
	
BENEFITS
Now	you’ll	see	how	this	kick	works	against	the	resistance	of	the	water,
giving	your	legs	and	abdominal	muscles	even	more	of	a	workout.
Supine	Float	and	Whip	Kick
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
First	practice	the	supine	float	and	recovery	to	refresh	your	memory.
Then	lean	backward	and	give	a	good	push-off	from	the	pool	bottom,	so
that	you	assume	a	supine	glide.	Your	feet	should	be	close	together	and
close	to	the	surface,	and	your	toes	should	be	pointed.	Begin	the	whip
kick	and	continue	for	a	minute	or	so.	As	before,	use	some	assistance	at
first	if	you	need	to,	then	gradually	come	to	perform	the	skill	alone.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
If	you’re	not	using	any	assistance,	you	can	add	some	easy	sculling	to
help	keep	your	upper	body	afloat	and	moving.	Listen	and	look	carefully
for	any	splashing—remember,	in	this	kick	your	feet	and	legs	should	stay
underwater	at	all	times.	Aim	for	a	smooth,	continuous	motion,	with	a
slight	pause	at	the	end	for	the	glide.
	
BENEFITS
This	exercise	is	an	intermediate	step	in	learning	the	elementary
backstroke.	And,	as	you	practice,	you’re	toning	your	leg	muscles,
particularly	the	inner	thigh.
Elementary	Backstroke	with	Whip	Kick
You’re	now	ready	to	put	two	and	two	together	(two	arms	and	two	legs)
to	swim	the	elementary	backstroke.	You’ve	done	all	the	parts	separately
in	the	water,	and	you’ve	put	them	all	together	on	land,	so	this	part
should	be	a	snap.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Floating	on	your	back,	review	the	elementary-backstroke	arm	motion
with	the	flutter	kick.	Practice	the	recovery	to	a	stand,	too.	Then,
standing	in	shallow	water,	review	the	arm	motion	with	the	whip	kick,
doing	a	“jumping	jack”	in	the	water	as	you	did	on	land.	Remember,	“up,
out,	together,	and	glide,”	with	both	arms	and	legs	moving	together.
Next,	push	off	into	the	supine	float.	Your	arms	should	begin	the	stroke
down	at	your	sides;	your	legs	should	be	together	and	straight,	with	toes
pointed.	Begin	moving	your	arms	and	your	legs	simultaneously.	“Up,
out,	together,	and	glide.”	Stop	whenever	you	need	to	by	recovering	to	a
stand.
The	elementary	backstroke.
The	glide
.
The	recovery
.
The	catch,	ready	for	pull
.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Remember,	in	this	stroke	the	arms	and	legs	“bend,	extend,	snap,	and
glide”	together.	During	the	glide,	rest	a	moment.	Relax	and	do	nothing—
just	feel	yourself	being	propelled	through	the	water	from	the	momentum
of	the	stroke.	When	you	start	to	lose	that	momentum,	it’s	time	to	stroke
again,	so	use	this	moment	to	think	about	beginning	the	next	stroke.	Try
to	make	each	complete	arm	and	leg	motion	carry	you	as	far	as	possible
(stretching	out	in	a	streamlined	position	helps,	so	do	good	form	and
muscle	strength).
If	your	body	tends	to	sink,	you	may	be	piking	at	the	waist.	Be	sure	to
arch	your	back,	lifting	your	chest,	hips,	and	abdomen	high	in	the	water.
If	your	face	should	dip	below	the	surface	at	any	time,	remember	to
exhale	out	your	nose	and	mouth	until	they	resurface.
Make	sure	your	arms	and	legs	stay	underwater	throughout	the	whole
stroke.	There	should	be	no	splash.	Really	flex	your	feet	for	propulsion.
Squeeze	your	legs	together	quickly	and	smoothly,	and	use	all	of	your
muscles	to	streamline	your	body	during	the	glide.
When	you’re	doing	this	stroke,	make	sure	that	you	pay	attention	to	the
approaching	wall.	Sneak	a	peak	in	back	of	you	every	now	and	then,	and
recover	to	a	stand	when	you	get	to	the	wall.	(You	could	also	count	the
number	of	strokes	needed	to	get	you	across	the	pool,	or	make	note	of
some	nearby	landmark	such	as	the	stairs,	a	ladder,	or	an	object	lying	on
the	edge	of	the	deck.)
	
BENEFITS
This	is	by	no	stretch	of	the	imagination	a	racing	stroke	(although	the
early	competitive	backstroke	did	resemble	it	closely),	but	the	elementary
backstroke	is	a	nice,	easy,	restful	skill	that	also	tones	and	stretches	your
arms,	thighs,	and	abdomen.	Later	on,	it	will	play	a	part	in	your	fitness
program	by	allowing	you	to	vary	your	swims	and	your	pace.	Until	then,
stretch,	relax,	and	enjoy	the	stroke.
Cool-down
Swim	through	all	your	new	and	old	prone	and	supine	skills.	Finish	this
lesson	with	a	few	shallow	surface	dives,	then	a	sitting	dive,	and	a	push-
up	exit.
Homework
Practice	the	crawl	and	backstroke	arm	motions	in	front	of	a	mirror.
Check	your	form.	Remember,	the	better	your	technique,	the	easier	and
more	pleasurable	swimming	will	be.	Continue	to	practice	your	rhythmic
breathing	in	a	vessel	filled	with	water.
L
ESSON	10
O
nly	two	more	things	to	learn	and	practice—the	windmill-backstroke
arm	motion,	and	how	to	turn	your	body	over	(to	go	from	a	prone
position	to	a	supine	position,	or	vice	versa)	and	change	direction	in	the
water.	Once	you	know	how	to	do	that,	you’ll	have	mastered	the
fundamentals	of	swimming	and	you’ll	know	all	you	need	to	have	a	safe
and	pleasurable	time	in	the	water.	Moreover,	you’ll	be	in	a	position	to
improve	your	fitness	and	your	skills	even	further	by	following	the
Workout	Program	that	begins	on	
this	page
.
D
RY
-L
AND
/P
REP
	S
KILLS
Begin	with	some	Swimmers’	Shape-ups,	including	arm	circles,	to	prepare
you	for	the	windmill	backstroke.	Then	review	your	skills	(even	though
some	may	seem	old	hat	by	now,	you	can	always	improve	on	them).
Review	Skills
Practice	your	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	prone	skills,	treading,
and	supine	skills.
Windmill-backstroke	Arm	Motion
This	alternating	arm	stroke	is	the	final	step	in	the	progression	of	supine
skills.	Later	on,	you	may	wish	to	refine	your	technique	by	learning	the
bent-arm	pull	(see	
this	page
),	but	to	understand	the	basics	of	this	stroke,
begin	with	the	simpler	straight-arm	pull	described	here.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	by	doing	the	stroke	as	a	catch-up	drill,	employing	the	same
principle	used	to	introduce	the	crawl	stroke	a	few	lessons	ago.	Standing
up,	extend	both	arms	straight	out	in	front	of	you	at	shoulder	level,	with
the	backs	of	your	hands	touching	and	your	palms	facing	out.	Your
thumbs	will	be	down	and	your	pinkies	up,	fingers	held	loosely	together.
To	begin	the	
recovery
	of	the	stroke,	lift	one	arm	straight	up	and
overhead,	just	approaching	the	midline	of	your	body.	Then	move	your
hand	back,	pinky	
downward,	another	six	inches	for	the	
catch
	of	the
stroke,	still	keeping	your	arm	straight.	For	the	
pull
,	simply	swing	your
arm	in	back	of	you	in	a	semicircle.	As	your	thumb	brushes	past	your
thigh,	rotate	your	hand	so	that	your	little	finger	once	again	leads	the
action.	Then	continue	the	circular	motion	until	your	hand	meets	your
other	hand	extended	in	front	of	you.	Touch	the	backs	of	your	hands	and
hold	a	moment	for	the	“catch-up.”	Then	begin	the	stroke	with	the	other
arm.
Windmill-backstroke	arm	motion	(catch-up	position)
.
When	you	have	the	hang	of	that,	begin	to	alternate	arms,	so	that,	as
one	is	pulling,	the	other	is	recovering,	and	you	have	a	180-degree	angle
of	opposition.	Do	this	while	walking	backward	to	simulate	the
propulsion	of	the	flutter	kick.	As	you	walk,	move	your	arms	alternately
in	a	constant	motion,	rather	than	one	at	a	time.	As	a	result,	they	will
never	actually	touch	(or	“catch	up”	with)	each	other,	but	will	always
rotate	directly	opposite	each	other,	like	the	blades	of	a	propeller	or
windmill.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
This	stroke	is	very	much	like	the	arm	circles	that	you’ve	been	doing	for
quite	a	while	now.	Really	stretch	up	and	back	as	you	rotate	your	arms
from	the	shoulders.	Remember	to	keep	your	elbows	straight	but	not
rigidly	locked	throughout	the	motion.
	
BENEFITS
This	stroke	will	be	faster	than	sculling	or	the	elementary	backstroke
when	you	try	it	in	the	water.	In	the	meantime,	practicing	it	on	land	will
help	firm	and	stretch	your	chest,	shoulders,	back,	and	arms.
W
ATER
	S
KILLS
Warm-up
Concentrate	on	arm	and	shoulder	exercises.	Then	begin	your	dry-land
review.
Review	Skills
Practice	your	breathing,	flutter	kicking,	bobbing,	prone	skills,	treading,
and	supine	skills.
Enter	the	pool	with	a	sitting	dive,	swim	to	the	deep	end,	and	continue
your	warm-up	in	the	water.	Practice	some	bobbing,	prone	skills,
treading,	and	supine	skills.
Windmill-backstroke	Arm	Motion
It’s	time	to	transfer	your	dry-land	skills	to	the	water,	and	once	again	to
see	how	well	Newton’s	Third	Law	of	Motion	Works.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	with	a	review	of	the	catch-up	backstroke	in	shallow	water.	Bend
your	knees	so	that	the	water	is	at	shoulder	level.	Brace	yourself	by
placing	one	foot	in	front	of	the	other.	Extend	both	arms	in	front	of	you
at	shoulder	level,	palms	facing	outward.	Begin	the	
recovery
	with	one	arm
by	bringing	it	out	of	the	water	(little	finger	up),	lifting	it	straight
overhead	at	shoulder	width.	Press	your	arm	back	another	six	inches	for
the	
catch;
	then	sweep	it	behind	you	and	down	under	the	water	for	the
pull
	As	you	brush	your	thigh	with	your	thumb,	rotate	your	arm	so	that
the	little	finger	faces	up	again,	and	continue	the	circular	motion	until
your	active	hand	meets	the	extended	one.	Hold	a	moment,	and	then
begin	the	stroke	with	your	other	arm.
Then	proceed	to	the	alternating	arm	motion.	As	you	did	on	land,
alternate	your	stroke	so	that	your	arms	move	continuously	and	in
opposition	to	each	other.	Begin	to	walk	backward	in	the	water.	If	you
can,	lean	back	slightly	in	the	water	to	get	a	body	position	that	more
closely	approximates	the	supine	float.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Remember	the	three	parts	of	the	arm	motion—the	catch,	the	pull,	and
the	recovery.	Check	to	see	that	your	arm	position	is	correct	during	the
recovery—little	finger	up,	arm	straight	and	directly	above	your	shoulder.
As	your	hand	passes	overhead,	make	sure	it	stays	at	shoulder	width,
with	your	little	finger	first	so	there’s	no	splash	later	on.	During	the	
pull
,
try	to	keep	your	arm	straight,	and	remember	to	rotate	your	arm	prior	to
the	
recovery
,	so	that	pinky	lifts	first	(no	splash	here	either).
Windmill	Backstroke	with	Flutter	Kick
This	is	the	last	step	in	learning	the	basic	windmill	backstroke.	As	with	all
the	other	skills,	begin	with	assistance	if	you	need	it;	then	gradually	come
to	do	it	unassisted.
The	windmill	backstroke.
The	catch
.
The	pull.
The	right	arm	is	about	to	begin	the	recovery,	as	the	left	arm	is	about	to	begin	the	catch
.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
Begin	in	a	supine	float.	Then	coordinate	the	arm	motion	with	the	kick	by
starting	with	either	motion	first,	then	adding	the	other.	If	you	need
assistance	and	you	have	a	partner,	have	him	or	her	stand	in	back	of	you
and	support	you	in	the	train-and-engineer	position	(engineers,	beware	of
flying	arms),	alternately	supporting	and	releasing	the	hands	as	they
stroke.	If	you	need	some	assistance	but	have	no	partner,	support	yourself
by	sliding	one	hand	along	the	pool	edge	as	you	flutter	kick	and	do	the
backstroke	with	your	free	arm.	Then	turn	around	and	reverse	directions,
using	the	other	arm	to	do	the	stroke.	Use	gradually	less	assistance	until
eventually	you	can	do	the	arm	and	leg	motions	together	on	your	own.
When	you	get	tired,	recover	to	a	stand.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
Keep	your	chin	near	your	chest	and	look	toward	your	feet,	so	the	water
line	is	just	at	ear	level.	If	you	begin	to	pike,	or	“sit,”	in	the	water,	try	to
keep	your	chest	and	shoulders	up	by	pressing	your	shoulder	blades	back
and	together.	If	just	your	legs	tend	to	sink,	your	head	may	be	too	high.
To	get	a	clean,	knifelike	entry	into	the	water,	make	sure	that	your	hand
enters	with	the	little	finger	first.	Then	to	further	minimize	splash,	turn
your	little	finger	up	again	before	you	lift	your	arm	from	the	water	for
the	recovery.	The	arm	motion	accounts	for	most	of	the	power	behind	the
stroke,	so	concentrate	on	the	form	and	power	of	your	arms,	and	keep
your	kicking	relaxed.	The	kick	should	be	rhythmic	and	constant,	with
about	six	beats	per	arm	cycle,	or	three	kicks	per	arm	pull.	Remember,
kick	from	the	hip,	not	the	knee.	Inhale	and	exhale	regularly	and
continually,	approximately	one	breathing	cycle	per	arm	cycle.	If	your
face	should	become	submerged	for	a	moment,	exhale	through	both	nose
and	mouth	until	it	resurfaces.
	
BENEFITS
In	the	windmill	backstroke,	the	head,	shoulders,	and	chest	ride	slightly
higher	than	your	legs.	This	is	called	
hydroplaning
,	and,	as	you’ll	see,	it’s
an	important	concept	in	improving	your	technique	in	all	the	strokes.	(In
the	backstroke,	it	has	the	added	benefit	of	also	keeping	your	head	higher
in	the	water,	which	makes	breathing	easier	and	visibility	better.)
Changing	Direction	and	Turning	Over
These	are	two	handy	safety	skills	that	may	come	naturally	to	some,	but
may	be	a	mystery	to	others.	If	you	want	to	change	the	direction	in	which
you	are	swimming,	or	change	from	a	prone	to	a	supine	position	(or	vice
versa),	here’s	how.
	
HOW	TO	DO	IT
To	
change	direction
,	reach	with	your	forward	arm	in	the	direction	you
wish	to	go,	and	move	your	body	in	a	wide	semicircle	through	the	water.
Turn	your	head	in	the	same	direction	simultaneously,	and	keep	kicking
to	maintain	a	high	enough	body	position.
To	
turn	your	body	over
	from	one	position	to	another,	simply	press	your
head	and	one	shoulder	down	into	the	water,	so	that	your	entire	body
rotates	along	the	longitudinal	axis,	like	a	log.
	
EXTRA	TIPS
If	you	have	trouble	mastering	the	change	of	direction,	you	may	want	to
try	going	through	the	vertical	treading	position	as	a	transitional	stage;
scull	with	one	arm	to	turn	your	body	to	face	the	opposite	direction,	with
your	legs	bending,	tucking,	and	then	bicycling	as	they	help	you	make	the
change.
Once	the	head	turns	in	the	direction	you	wish	to	roll,	the	shoulders
and	hips	will	follow.
Cool-down
Rest	a	few	minutes	before	you	put	all	the	skills	you’ve	learned	together
into	a	mini-workout.
Exit	the	pool,	push-up	style.	Then	reenter	the	water	with	a	sitting
dive,	and	surface	into	a	prone	glide.	When	the	glide	slows	down,	begin
the	crawl	stroke	with	rhythmic	breathing;	swim	toward	the	deep	end,
and	rest	whenever	you	need	to	by	recovering	to	a	vertical	position	and
treading	water.	Then	resume	swimming	until	you	reach	the	other	end.
Tread	water	for	one	minute	at	the	deep	end;	then	return	to	the	shallow
end,	using	your	supine	skills:	the	elementary	or	windmill	backstroke	or
sculling,	or	any	combination	of	the	three.	When	you’ve	finished,	do	one
minute	of	bobbing	before	exiting	the	pool.	As	you	repeat	this	lesson,
keep	trying	to	swim	farther	and	farther	before	you	have	to	tread	to	rest.
Also	practice	
changing	direction	and	rolling	over	from	the	crawl	position
to	the	backstroke	position	(and	vice	versa).
Homework
Practice,	as	they	say,	makes	perfect.	That’s	especially	true	for	you	now.
All	you	need	to	do	now	is	perfect	your	skills	so	that	you’re	efficient,	and
graceful,	too.	You	can	stay	at	this	level	the	rest	of	your	life	and	call
yourself	a	swimmer.	Or	you	can	keep	going	(and	I	hope	you	will),	by
learning	new	strokes	and	further	refining	the	ones	you	already	know.
You	can	also	continue	to	improve	your	level	of	fitness	by	following	the
progressive	program	that	begins	on	
this	page
.	Whatever	you	decide,
there’s	a	whole	new	world	open	for	you	to	enjoy.
Now	that	you’ve	achieved	your	first	major	goal,	why	not	treat	yourself
to	a	new	bathing	suit,	a	bathing	cap,	a	new	pair	of	goggles,	or	a
membership	in	a	health	club	or	other	pool	facility?
And	by	the	way,	welcome	to	the	world	of	swimming!
P
ART	TWO
THE	TECHNIQUES	OF	SWIMMING
S
TROKE	COMPONENTS
C
onsidering	how	many	centuries	man	has	been	splashing	around,	the
swimming	techniques	used	today	are	relatively	recent	innovations.	These
refinements	are	largely	the	result	of	the	needs	of	competitive	swimmers,
for	whom	every	little	advantage	counts	in	their	endless	quest	to	swim
faster.	The	old	styles	were	largely	a	product	of	simple	trial	and	error.	But
recently,	swimming	techniques	have	been	elevated	to	a	science,	making
today’s	competitive	styles	remarkably	different	from	those	of	even	a
decade	or	two	ago.	As	a	result,	swimmers’	times	have	plummeted	to	the
point	where	an	Olympic	champion	of	ten	years	ago	would	have	trouble
even	qualifying	for	today’s	games.
T
HE
	A
RT	OF
	S
WIMMING
What	does	this	have	to	do	with	your	average	fitness	swimmer?	Well,
swimming	faster	comes	from	a	more	efficient	technique,	which	is	more
natural	and	graceful,	and	therefore	ultimately	easier.	So,	even	if	you
don’t	choose	to	pit	yourself	against	another	swimmer	or	against	the
clock,	sharpening	your	technique	will	make	swimming	more	pleasurable.
Even	if	you	think	
you	know	these	strokes,	browse	through	the	following
pages.	You	will	almost	certainly	find	tips	that	will	help	you	improve
your	form.	You	may	not	be	doing	the	S	pattern	in	the	crawl	stroke,	for
instance.	Or	perhaps	you’re	doing	the	old	frog	kick	instead	of	the	whip
kick	with	your	breaststroke.	Take	a	look	at	your	breathing,	your	body
position,	the	angle	of	your	hand	as	it	enters	the	water.	And	wouldn’t	you
like	to	know	how	to	make	a	smooth,	fast	transitional	turn	when	you
reach	the	wall	of	a	pool?	Or	how	to	enter	the	water	in	a	clean,	graceful
dive?
Swimming	is	a	sport,	but	it’s	also	an	art.	And	if	it’s	to	become	a	part	of
your	life,	wouldn’t	you	like	to	do	it	as	well	as	possible?	No	matter	how
well	you	swim,	you	will	always	be	able	to	do	it	a	little	bit	(maybe	a	lot)
better.	There’s	always	a	new	challenge.	I’m	still	reviewing	and	perfecting
things	I	thought	I	learned	years	ago.
T
HE
	B
ASICS	AND
	B
EYOND
This	section	picks	up	where	the	ten	lessons	in	Part	One	left	off.	To	get
the	most	out	of	it,	you	should	be	acquainted	with	“The	Fundamentals	of
Swimming”:	you	should	be	comfortable	floating	on	your	back	and	on
your	stomach	(supine	and	prone	positions),	you	should	be	able	to	do	the
crawl	stroke	(also	called	freestyle)	with	rhythmic	breathing,	the
elementary	and	windmill	backstrokes,	sculling,	deep-water	treading,
and,	ideally,	a	sitting	dive.	If	any	of	these	elements	are	a	mystery	to	you,
go	back	and	review	them;	they	are	the	foundation	on	which	all	strokes,
starts,	dives,	and	turns	are	built.
Once	you’ve	learned	a	skill,	always	aim	for	a	constant,	smooth,
rhythmic	motion,	with	no	wasted	effort.	As	you	learn	and	practice,	try	to
develop	your	kinesthetic	sense—your	ability	to	perceive	the	relative
position	of	each	part	of	your	body	in	space	(or	water).	Only	when	you
have	an	idea	of	your	body	position	will	you	be	able	to	tell	when	you’re
doing	something	correctly,	or,	if	you’re	performing	a	skill	incorrectly,
how	to	go	about	correcting	it.	Some	people	have	a	keener	kinesthetic
sense	than	others,	but	everyone	can	improve	upon	what	he	has.
So	work	in	front	of	a	mirror	first	to	practice	a	movement.	Then,	during
your	regular	workout	at	the	pool,	concentrate	on	learning	or	improving
a	specific	skill.	(You’ll	see	that	the	workouts	in	this	book	do	this	for	you
already.)	Practice	with	a	steady	buddy	or	swimming	partner	as	often	as
possible.	As	you	progress,	watch,	ask,	and	listen	to	other	swimmers.
Regardless	of	your	level,	you	can	still	help	and	correct	each	other.
S
UCCESS
	W
ILL
	C
OME
You	may	feel	a	little	stiff	and	awkward	at	first,	depending	on	your
physical	condition,	your	age,	and	your	past	swimming	experience.	You
may	not	be	able	to	do	a	movement	exactly	as	pictured	or	described.	Your
legs	may	not	snap	together	briskly,	your	elbow	may	not	come	up	quite
high	enough,	you	may	have	a	tough	time	getting	some	of	the
coordination.	If	you’re	relearning	a	stroke	the	right	way,	you	may	find	it
tough	to	eradicate	years	of	habit.
Just	hang	in	there	and	do	the	best	you	can.	As	long	as	you	have	the
basic	idea,	you	will	approach	the	ideal	more	and	more	every	day.	If	you
have	a	bad	back,	stiff	shoulder,	or	trick	knee,	you	may	need	to
individualize	a	stroke	or	two.	So,	although	these	techniques	work	best
for	most	swimmers,	if	a	particular	technique	doesn’t	work	for	you	after
you’ve	given	it	a	good	chance,	give	in	to	your	idiosyncrasies	and	modify
the	technique	so	that	it	comes	closer	to	being	correct	for	you.
P
RINCIPLES	OF
	G
OOD
	S
TROKE
	M
ECHANICS
As	I’ve	mentioned	earlier,	swimming	is	an	art,	a	sport,	and	a	science.	No
matter	what	the	stroke,	start,	dive,	or	turn,	there	are	certain	basic
principles	that	apply.	Here’s	a	crash	course	in	fluid	mechanics	that	will
help	explain	why	strokes	are	done	the	way	they	are.
Buoyancy,	or	Archimedes’	Law:
	The	specific	gravity	of	water	is	1.0;
yours	is	less,	which	means	that	you	will	float.	There	is	a	simple,
unchanging	principle	that	explains	this	phenomenon.	Basically,	when
any	weight	is	submerged,	the	water	presses	in	on	it	from	all	sides.	In	the
case	of	a	buoyant	object,	such	as	your	body,	more	pressure	is	exerted
upward	than	in	any	other	direction.	This	difference	in	pressure	causes	an
upward	force,	called	buoyancy.	Since	people	are	naturally	buoyant	(big-
boned	and	heavy-muscled	types	are	less	buoyant;	fat	floats	better)	very
little	effort	is	required	to	keep	afloat.	So	when	you	swim,	don’t	try	to
swim	
on	top
	of	the	water;	swim	
through	it
.	Devote	your	energy	to
propelling	yourself	forward,	not	to	staying	up.	However,	the	faster	you
go,	the	higher	in	the	water	you’ll	ride;	this	is	a	natural	by-product	of
greater	speed.
Newton’s	Third	Law	of	Motion:
	This	one	says	that,	for	every	action,
there’s	an	equal	and	opposite	reaction.	Swimmers	move	
forward
	by
pushing	
back
	against	the	water	(instead	of	pushing	
up
	and	
out
	as	many
do).	The	greater	the	resistance	of	the	water,	the	greater	the	forward
thrust.	And	since	still	water	provides	greater	resistance	than	water	that’s
already	moving	backward,	the	old	straight-arm	pull	isn’t	the	most
efficient	way	to	swim.	The	most	effective	stroke,	instead,	is	one	that’s
curved	so	that	you’re	always	pushing	against	a	column	of	“new”	or	still
water.	We’ll	discuss	this	concept	in	more	detail	later	on.
Bernoulli’s	Principle	of	Streamlining:
	In	order	to	move	through	water
most	efficiently,	your	body	must	pose	as	little	resistance	(drag)	as
possible.	This	streamlining	effect	with	Bernoulli’s	Principle	or	Lift	Law
allows	you	to	swim	faster	the	higher	your	upper	body	rides	in	the	water.
To	streamline	your	body,	keep	it	generally	horizontal	along	the	central
axis	(your	spine)	so	that	all	your	energy	is	used	for	propelling	your	body
directly	forward
,	and	none	is	wasted	by	moving	it	vertically,	to	the	side,
or	even	backward.
Next,	you	have	to	keep	in	mind	how	to	generate	the	most	power	to
propel	you	forward	without	destroying	the	streamlining	effect.	If	you
were	an	eel	or	a	submarine,	this	would	pose	very	little	problem.	But	we
land	creatures	have	to	move	our	arms	and	legs	up,	down,	and	around	in
order	to	move,	and	this	interferes	with	streamlining	by	increasing	our
surface	area.	The	greater	the	area	exposed	to	the	water,	the	greater	the
drag.	This	is	the	dilemma	that	faces	every	swimmer:	how	to	obtain	the
greatest	power	(using	your	arms	and	legs	to	make	the	most	of	the
water’s	resistance)	while	sacrificing	the	least	streamlining	(creating	as
little	resistance	as	possible	on	the	other	parts).
Resistance	Check:	An	Experiment
To	help	you	get	a	feel	for	the	three	principles	of	stroke	mechanics
discussed	here—Newton’s	Third	Law	of	Motion,	streamlining,	and
resistance—try	this	exercise	the	next	time	you’re	in	the	water.	Although
the	experiment	deals	with	only	hand	position,	the	principles	apply	to	the
rest	of	a	swimmer’s	body	as	well.
Stand	in	shoulder-deep	water,	with	one	arm	extended	straight	out	in
front	of	you	at	water	level.	Pull	your	arm	downward	and	backward	in	an
arc,	holding	your	hand	in	each	of	the	following	positions	consecutively:
1.	
Flex	your	wrist	and	extend	your	fingers	upward	toward	the
ceiling	(water	slides	off	your	hand).
2.	
Make	a	fist	(feel	pressure	on	your	arm,	but	there	is	no
“paddle”	or	“lever”	effect	of	hand).
3.	
Flex	your	hand	at	the	wrist,	at	a	90-degree	angle
(“overdigging”—pushing	water	out	and	back	too	soon).
4.	
Spread	your	fingers	apart,	pulling	with	arm	straight
downward	(arm	slips	through	water	without	much	power).
Now	try	this:	Slide	your	hand	into	the	water	at	a	30-to	45-degree
angle	downward,	thumb	side	down.	Keep	your	elbow	higher	than	your
hand,	and	pull	straight	through,	describing	the	same	arc	as	you	did
before.	You	will	feel	a	big	difference—this	is	the	most	efficient	way	to
press	against	the	water,	and	you	will	now	feel	your	body	start	to	move
forward.	That’s	Newton’s	Third	Law	of	Motion	using	the	water’s
resistance	to	propel	you	forward.
This	experiment	also	gives	you	a	good	“feel”	of	the	water.	With	every
stroke	you	should	try	to	hold	as	much	water	as	possible.	Try	to	get	a
good	“grip”	on	it.	(However,	you	should	also	keep	your	hand	somewhat
relaxed,	with	fingers	straight	but	slightly	apart.)
T
HE
	S
TROKES
In	this	section,	you’ll	study	the	four	competitive	strokes	(the	crawl	or
freestyle,	the	backstroke,	the	breaststroke,	and	the	butterfly)	plus	a	fifth
(the	sidestroke).
Which	Is	the	Hardest	Stroke?	The	Fastest?
Of	course,	it	depends	on	how	hard	you’re	swimming	and	how	efficient
your	technique	is,	but	in	general	terms,	here	are	the	strokes	ranked	from
most	strenuous	to	least	strenuous:
Butterfly
Crawl	(freestyle)
Backstroke
Breaststroke
Sidestroke
And	here	are	the	strokes	ranked	from	fastest	to	slowest:
Crawl	(freestyle)
Butterfly
Backstroke
Breaststroke
Sidestroke
Everyone	has	a	favorite	stroke	and	a	least	favorite	stroke,	with	the	others
falling	somewhere	in	between.	But	it’s	a	good	idea	to	learn	and	practice
as	many	strokes	as	you	can,	because	it	makes	for	more	interesting
workouts,	and	because	each	stroke	works	your	muscles	differently.
Stroke	Basics
Body	Position:
	In	general,	the	higher	your	body	rides	in	the	water,
with	the	shoulders	slightly	higher	than	the	legs,	the	easier	it	will	be	to
swim.	But	don’t	get	carried	away—remember,	we	humans	move	
through
water,	not	on	top	of	it.	The	water	should	come	to	about	your	hairline.
Arm	Motion:
	No	matter	how	different	they	seem,	all	the	arm	strokes
in	this	section	have	these	three	components	in	common:
1.	
They	begin	with	the	
catch
—the	angled	entry	of	your	hand	so
that	air	bubbles	don’t	get	trapped	and	your	hand	doesn’t	slip
through	the	water.	This	is	the	ready	position	during	which
you	should	get	a	good	hold	on	the	water.
2.	
Next	comes	the	two-phase	underwater	
pull—
always	some
variation	of	an	elongated	S-shaped	path	that	makes	the	most
use	of	the	water’s	resistance.	Phase	1	is	a	diagonal,	outward,
and	downward	movement;	you	pull	water	in	a	semicircle	from
about	shoulder	width	back	inward	to	about	the	mid-line	of	the
body.	Phase	2	is	a	shorter,	accelerated	press	backward.
Ideally,	the	second	phase	supplies	most	of	the	power	of	the
arm	stroke.
3.	
Finally,	there’s	the	
recovery
,	which	occurs	either	over	or	under
the	water,	depending	on	the	stroke.	This	component,	which
brings	the	arm	back	to	the	starting	position	and	gives	it	a
short	rest,	should	be	done	with	as	little	resistance	as	possible.
When	learning	and	doing	each	stroke,	review	the	basic	S-shaped	path
that	your	hand	and	arm	follow;	this	allows	you	continually	to	press
“still”	water	backward.
Leg	Motion:
	The	main	power	from	any	kind	of	kick	comes	from	the
large	muscles	in	the	hips	and	thighs.	The	aim	of	all	strokes	is	to	push
water	backward,	not	to	splash	water	into	the	air.	So	make	sure	your	feet
and	legs	barely	break	the	surface.
Breathing:
	There	should	be	a	continuous	exchange	of	air,	whether
your	head	is	above	the	water	or	below.	Inhale	fully	and	exhale	slowly
and	fully	through	both	nose	and	mouth.	Exhaling	through	the	nose	is
especially	important	when	your	face	is	underwater,	since	that’s	what
keeps	the	water	from	getting	in.
Another	factor	to	bear	in	mind	is	the	ratio	of	arm	power	to	leg	power.
Most	people	will	be	surprised	by	this	comparison:
COMPARISON	OF	LEG	AND	ARM	POWER
COMPARISON	OF	LEG	AND	ARM	POWER
Percentage	of	Stroke’s	Power	from	Kick
Percentage	of	Stroke’s	Power	from	Pull
Freestyle	or	crawl
20
80
Backstroke
25
75
Butterfly
30
70
Breaststroke
50
50
Sidestroke
50
50
These	percentages	are	meant	to	give	you	an	idea	of	what	to	strive
toward.	Think	of	them	as	a	goal	that	you’re	constantly	trying	to	achieve;
whether	you	do	depends	on	your	own	relative	strengths	and	weaknesses.
If	you	have	an	especially	good	kick,	for	instance,	that	will	naturally
supply	more	power.	And	in	competition	the	percentage	varies,	too:
sprinters	use	more	leg	power,	and	distance	swimmers	rely	more	on	their
arms.
If	you	find	these	general	ratios	hard	to	believe,	try	this:	just	pull	for
one	lap;	then	just	kick;	finally,	swim	(use	both	arms	and	legs)	for	one
lap.	Time	yourself	for	each	lap—then	compare.
F
REESTYLE
T
he	crawl	stroke	is	just	about	everyone’s	favorite,	whether	they	are
recreational	or	fitness	swimmers,	or	competitive	swimmers,	who	often
call	it	the	freestyle.	The	words	“crawl	stroke”	and	“freestyle”	are	used
interchangeably.	The	crawl	stroke	is	the	easiest	to	learn	for	most	people.
As	your	crawl	stroke	improves,	you	will	be	developing	your	“freestyle”
stroke	techniques	for	faster	and	more	efficient	swimming.
The	present-day	crawl	had	its	origins	in	Australia,	around	1893.	The
stroke	supposedly	got	its	name	when	a	swimming	coach,	amazed	at	the
unusual	stroke	used	by	twelve-year-old	Alick	Wickham	(and	at	the	boy’s
resulting	speed),	exclaimed:	“Look	at	that	kid	crawling!”	Although	this
original	“Australian	crawl”	has	been	greatly	refined	over	the	past
century,	the	basic	idea	of	combining	a	hand-over-hand	arm	motion	with
a	vertical	kick	and	a	prone	body	position	was	a	remarkable	improvement
over	the	strokes	then	in	common	use.
Word	began	to	spread	of	the	crawl’s	speed	and	efficiency,	and
gradually	more	and	more	competitive	swimmers	adopted	the	stroke	for
speed	swimming.	It	became	supreme	among	all	others	for	long-distance
swimming	as	well	when	Gertrude	Ederle	used	it	in	her	English	Channel
swim	in	1926.	(“Doc”	Counsilman	used	the	freestyle	in	his	1979	Channel
swim,	too-at	the	age	of	fifty-eight!)	Since	then,	many	swimmers	have
contributed	to	the	popularity	and	refinement	of	this	all-purpose	stroke,
including	Esther	Williams,	Johnny	Weissmuller,	and	Buster	Crabbe,	who
literally	swam	their	way	to	fame	and	fortune.	More	recently	Mark	Spitz,
winner	of	seven	Olympic	gold	medals	in	Munich	in	1972,	set	four
Olympic	records	in	freestyle	sprint	events.	Since	then,	such	swimmers	as
Matt	Biondi,	
Tracy	Caulkins,	Ambrose	(“Rowdy”)	Gaines,	Janet	Evans,
and	Tom	Jager	have	continued	to	shatter	freestyle	records.
L
EARNING	THE
	F
REESTYLE
The	basics	of	this	stroke	have	already	been	taught	in	Part	One,	“The
Fundamentals	of	Swimming.”	Here	you’ll	learn	a	few	refinements	to
your	technique,	including	the	more	efficient	S-pattern	arm	pull.	This
technique	is	more	powerful	than	the	traditional	straight-arm	pull
because	your	hand	moves	a	column	of	still	water,	instead	of	water	that
you’ve	already	set	in	motion.	This	gives	you	a	better	“hold”	on	the	water
and	increases	the	resistance	against	your	hand,	enabling	you	to	push
yourself	forward	with	more	force.	The	backstroke,	breaststroke,	and
butterfly	also	utilize	an	S-pattern	pull,	so	once	you	understand	the
principle	you	can	transfer	this	technique	to	the	other	strokes	as	well.
Remember,	the	arms	account	for	about	four	fifths	of	the	forward
propulsion	in	the	crawl	stroke/freestyle.	Actually,	long-distance
swimmers	
use	their	legs	even	less,	while	competitive	sprinters	may	get
more	of	their	power	from	the	kick.
The	freestyle.
The	catch
.

The	pull	(phase	1)
.
The	pull	(phase	2)
.
The	recovery
.
Body	Position
Your	body	should	have	a	long,	stretched-out	feeling.	It	should	be
streamlined	along	its	central	axis	(your	spine),	and	the	water	level
should	come	between	your	eyebrows	and	your	hairline.
Arm	Motion
Practice	the	motion	on	dry	land.	Next,	practice	in	shoulder-deep	water,
walking	forward	at	the	speed	at	which	you	push	water	back.	Then	move
on	to	the	arm	drills.
		
THE	CATCH
The	stroke	begins	with	the	
catch
.	Slice	cleanly	into	the	water,	with	your
elbow	up	and	your	hand	and	forearm	entering	the	water	at	a	30-to	45-
degree	angle.	Keep	your	hand	relaxed,	thumb	down,	and	palm	facing
slightly	diagonally	outward.	Then	extend	your	arm	into	the	water	fully,
four	to	eight	inches	below	the	surface,	before	beginning	the	first	phase
of	the	underwater	pull.	Throughout	the	stroke,	keep	your	elbows	higher
than	your	hands.
		
THE	PULL
This	part	of	the	stroke	makes	an	S	shape	for	your	left	arm,	a	backward	S
for	your	right	arm.	As	the	illustration	shows,	the	S	should	be	done	so
that	it	is	“bottom	heavy.”	For	the	best	leverage,	keep	your	elbow	bent
slightly	during	the	entire	pull.
PHASE	1:
	With	your	arm	slightly	bent,	your	hand	pulls	back,	down,	and	out.
When	it	reaches	just	past	shoulder	width,	pull	in	toward	your	stomach.
During	this	first	part,	feel	as	if	you	are	gathering	up	an	armload	of	water
and	then	pressing	it	back.	This	first	phase	should	also	give	you	a	feeling
of	leverage	or	lift.
PHASE	2:
	From	this	position,	press	diagonally	back	toward	your	thigh.
Straighten	and	extend	your	arm	as	you	accelerate	the	movement	at	the
end	of	the	stroke;	imagine	that	you’re	throwing	a	ball	behind	you.	The
speed	of	the	pull	is	actually	greatest	here,	at	the	end.
The	S-shaped	bent-arm	pull	for	the	crawl/freestyle
.
		
THE	RECOVERY
For	the	
recovery
,	bend	your	elbow	as	you	lift	the	arm	out	of	the	water.
Keep	the	elbow	higher	than	the	hand,	and	initially	lead	the	swing
forward	with	the	elbow.	The	fingers	point	back	and	trail	behind	for	half
of	the	recovery.	Midway,	the	fingers	take	over	the	lead,	and	the	hand
enters	the	water	at	a	30-to	45-degree	angle,	thumb	downward,	for	the
catch.
Body	Roll
As	one	arm	recovers,	there’s	a	natural	tendency	for	the	body	to	roll	45
degrees	or	more	toward	the	arm	that’s	pulling.
As	the	right	arm	pulls,	the	right	shoulder	rotates	deeper	into	the
water,	contributing	further	to	the	body	roll.	This	body	roll	gives	more
leverage	to	the	pulling	arm.	It	increases	lift	and	streamlining	on	the
recovery	side,	because	the	shoulder,	more	above	the	water,	encounters
less	resistance.
As	a	result	of	body	roll,	you	can	think	of	your	fingertips	tracing	a	path
close	to	the	center	line	of	your	body	during	phase	1	of	the	pull.
Leg	Motion
The	leg	motion	of	the	crawl	stroke/freestyle	is	called	the	flutter	kick.
Although	this	kick	is	technically	known	as	the	six-beat	kick	(i.e.,	three
kicks	per	arm	motion),	it’s	more	important	that	the	kicks	are	rhythmic
and	continuous	than	that	you	get	exactly	six	per	complete	arm	cycle.
Practice	while	sitting	on	the	edge	of	the	pool,	then	practice	while
holding	on	to	the	pool	wall,	then	with	a	kickboard.	Try	some	of	the	kick
drills	described	below.
To	flutter	kick,	move	your	legs	up	and	down	alternately.	Keep	your
legs	close	together,	and	keep	the	up-and-down	span	to	about	twelve	to
eighteen	inches.	The	action	and	power	here	come	from	the	hip	and
thigh,	so	keep	your	knees	fairly	straight,	but	not	locked.	Your	ankles
should	be	loose	and	floppy;	let	them	flex	and	point	in	an	undulating	or
almost	whiplike	movement	as	an	extension	of	the	flutter	motion	of	your
legs.	When	used	correctly,	feet	add	power	to	your	kick	in	the	same	way
that	swim	fins	do.	Your	toes	should	almost	point	as	your	leg	begins	the
downward	movement	of	the	kick.	Don’t	splash—just	make	the	water
“boil”	for	the	most	efficient	kick.	Kicking,	when	done	correctly,	helps
you	to	maintain	your	body	position	and	the	tempo	of	your	stroke.	Most
of	the	propulsion	of	the	kick	comes	on	the	“downbeat.”	In	the	freestyle,
the	kick	serves	mainly	to	
stabilize	the	stroke	and	to	help	keep	your	legs
from	sinking	too	far	below	the	surface.	An	inefficient	kick,	however,	can
slow	you	down	by	creating	resistance	drag	and	making	your	arm	pulls
less	effective.
Many	swimmers	find	that	the	legs	naturally	cross	over	slightly	at	the
ankle;	there’s	no	harm	in	this.	Another	variation	of	this	kick	is	called	the
trudgeon
,	which	is	a	scissors	kick	that	occurs	when	the	swimmer	inhales.
If	one	of	these	kicks	happens	naturally	and	feels	comfortable,	by	all
means	go	ahead	and	use	it.
Breathing
Rhythmic	breathing,	the	correct	way	to	breathe	while	doing	the
freestyle,	consists	of	pivoting	your	face	out	of	the	water	to	inhale,	then
pivoting	it	back	down	into	the	water	to	exhale.	Remember,	pivot	your
head;	don’t	lift	it.
Coordinating	Arms	and	Breathing
Learn	to	breathe	rhythmically	and	to	coordinate	the	head	action	with
the	arm	motion.	Follow	the	“Law	of	Opposites”	as	described	in	“The
Fundamentals	of	Swimming,”	
this	page
:	as	your	head	turns	to	inhale,	the
arm	on	the	opposite	side	extends	and	enters	the	water;	at	the	same	time,
the	arm	on	your	breathing	side	has	completed	the	last	part	of	the	S
pattern.	If	you	breathe	on	the	right,	for	example,	begin	to	turn	your	head
just	as	the	fingers	of	your	left	hand	enter	the	water.	Inhale	as	your	face
breaks	the	surface;	exhale	completely	as	it	pivots	back	into	the	water.
You’ll	probably	prefer	one	side	more	than	the	other,	but	practice
breathing	on	both	sides;	eventually,	you	should	try	alternate	breathing,
where	you	breathe	first	on	one	side,	then,	three	arm	strokes	later,	on	the
opposite	side.	Ideally,	you	should	be	swimming	efficiently	enough	for
your	head	to	create	a	“wake,”	or	air	pocket,	that	will	allow	you	actually
to	breathe	with	your	mouth	below	the	surface	of	the	water.	Finally,
remember	to	inhale	and	exhale	continuously	throughout	rhythmic
breathing;	don’t	hold	your	breath	at	any	time.	The	entire	cycle	should
take	about	three	to	five	seconds.
Coordinating	Arms	and	Legs
Many	swimmers	are	comfortable	doing	a	six-beat	kick.	This	means
coordinating	three	downward	kicks,	or	beats,	per	one	arm	pull,	with	the
downward	kick	of	one	leg	coordinating	with	the	catch	of	the	opposite
arm.
Other	swimmers	develop	a	two-beat	kick—one	downward	beat	per
arm	pull—because	it’s	less	tiring	when	you	ease	up	on	the	legs.
Sometimes	they	add	a	crossover,	too.
There	are	several	variations,	but	you	should	work	out	whichever
coordination	works	best	for	you—just	remember,	your	goal	is	to	move
smoothly	and	constantly	through	the	water.
C
HECKLIST	FOR	A
	B
ETTER
	F
REESTYLE
Once	you’ve	gotten	the	basics,	keep	these	pointers	in	mind	to	help	you
swim	more	efficiently:
Keep	your	body	position	as	stretched	and	streamlined	as
possible,	with	your	shoulders	riding	higher	than	your	legs.	(Feet
should	be	approximately	one	foot	below	the	surface	of	the
water	at	the	lowest	point	of	the	kick.)
Aim	for	a	full	arm	extension	(straight	but	not	locked)	at	the
beginning	and	the	end	of	each	stroke.
Accelerate	your	stroke	during	phase	2	of	the	pull.
Keep	your	elbows	higher	than	your	hands	at	all	times	during
the	stroke.	Turning	the	thumb	downward	helps	keep	the	elbow
up,	in	addition	to	cutting	down	on	the	amount	of	air	entrapped
into	the	catch	(remember,	you	want	to	push	water,	not	air).
At	the	highest	point	of	the	recovery,	your	elbow	is	bent	at	a	90-
degree	angle,	with	the	wrist	flexed	slightly	back.	Initially	the
elbow	leads	during	the	recovery,	until	the	hand	extends	for	the
catch.
Make	sure	that	you	take	time	for	the	catch	of	the	stroke.
When	inhaling,	rotate	your	head	just	enough	so	that	your
mouth	clears	the	water.	The	less	you	turn,	the	better,	so	that
you	get	a	clean,	quick	“bite”	of	air.	Some	swimmers	actually
twist	their	mouths	up	toward	their	breathing	side	to	minimize
head	movement	even	further.	When	you	breathe,	you	should	be
looking	diagonally	toward	the	far	end	of	the	pool	(not	at	the
bottom	or	at	the	ceiling,	or	behind	you).
Don’t	overkick;	this	will	tire	you	out,	and	may	even	decrease
your	speed.	Just	make	the	water	“boil.”	And	try	to	keep	your
ankles	loose	and	supple	to	get	a	whipping	action.
F
REESTYLE
	S
TROKE
	D
RILLS
:	A
RMS
These	drills	may	be	done	with	or	without	a	
pull-buoy
	for	support.
Advanced	fitness	and	competitive	swimmers	may	also	use	additional
resistance	devices
	such	as	an	inner	tube	and/or	hand	paddles.
NOTE
:	Even	though	these	are	arm	drills,	some	may	require	kicking	to
maintain	body	position	and	smooth	motion	during	the	drill.
1.	Catch-up	Freestyle:
	To	slow	down	the	stroke	and	feel	the	S-pattern
pull.
As	you	do	the	arm	motion,	touch	one	thumb	to	the	other	before
beginning	the	next	pull.	Maintain	a	steady	kick	throughout	the	drill.
Practice	this	drill	standing	on	land,	then	standing	in	shallow
water,	then	walking	forward	in	shoulder-deep	water.
Do	one	lap	of	catch-up;	then	swim	normally	for	one	lap.
Do	half	a	lap	of	catch-up;	then	complete	the	lap	by	swimming.
Pull	for	four	catch-up	strokes;	then	complete	the	lap	by
swimming.
(If	you	have	a	problem	with	the	catch-up	drills,	do	them	while	holding
on	to	the	end	of	a	kickboard	with	the	nonpulling	hand.)
2.	One-arm	Pulls:
	To	even	out	the	stroke,	so	both	arms	pull	with	the
same	power.	This	drill	may	be	done	with	or	without	kicking.
Pull	with	one	arm	at	a	time,	keeping	the	nonpulling	arm	stretched	out
in	front	of	you.
Pull	with	the	same	arm	for	an	entire	lap,	or	alternate	the
number	of	strokes	done	with	each	arm	(i.e.,	eight	right,	eight
left).	May	be	alternated	in	a	descending/ascending	progression
(8R,	8L;	4R,	4L;	2R,	2L;	1R,	1L;	2R,	2L;	4R,	4L;	8R,	8L).
3.	Glide	Freestyle:
	To	get	a	better	“feel”	for	the	water	with	a	deeper,
more	efficient	pull,	and	to	allow	for	body	roll.	This	drill	may	be	done
with	or	without	kicking.
Hold	your	hand	in	the	catch	position	for	as	long	as	possible,	and	glide
in	the	water	with	the	body	roll;	try	to	minimize	kicking.
Pull	for	one	lap	doing	the	glide	freestyle;	then	swim	for	one	lap.
Pull	for	half	a	lap	doing	the	glide	freestyle;	then	complete	the
lap	by	swimming.
Pull	for	four	glide	freestyle	strokes,	then	complete	the	lap	by
swimming.
4.	DPS	(Distance	Per	Stroke):
	To	maximize	the	efficiency	of	each
stroke.
Count	the	strokes	needed	to	complete	a	lap	while	pulling;	on	the	next
lap,	try	to	decrease	the	number	of	strokes	needed.	Try	to	do	this	for	a
number	of	consecutive	laps.
The	glide	freestyle	drill	works	wonders	for	your	DPS.	Incorporate	the
S-pattern	pull	to	maximize	your	efficiency.	As	a	goal,	maintain	the	same
speed	(watch	the	clock!)	as	you	decrease	the	number	of	strokes	on	each
lap.
5.	Fist	Closed	Pulling:
	To	develop	pulling	power	from	the	whole	arm,
not	just	relying	on	the	hands	for	propulsion.
Curl	your	fingers	into	a	fist,	placing	the	thumb	over	the	middle
fingers.	Keep	elbows	high	through	each	armstroke.
6.	Dig	Freestyle:
	To	practice	lifting	elbows	high	on	the	recovery.
Begin	swimming	one	length	of	the	pool	with	very	short	strokes;
where	hands	enter	the	water	at	your	ears,	elbows	are	high	on
the	recovery.	Then	gradually	stretch	out	each	successive	stroke
so	that	the	final	strokes	to	the	wall	are	“normal.”
7.	Head-up	Freestyle:
	To	develop	a	high	body	position	and	proper
hand	entries.	Swim	with	your	eyes	above	water;	hold	head	in	position
looking	forward.	The	water	line	is	at	the	bridge	of	your	nose.
F
REESTYLE
	D
RILLS
:	L
EGS
These	drills	may	be	done	with	or	without	fins	or	a	kickboard.	When	kick
drills	are	done	without	a	board,	you	will	develop	a	“feel”	for	the	water
with	your	hands.	Because	kick	drills	are	done	without	using	the	arms—
which	in	the	freestyle	account	for	four	fifths	of	the	stroke’s	power—they
give	you	a	good	chance	to	work	your	leg	muscles	more	than	you	would
ordinarily.
1.	Sit	and	Kick:
	To	get	the	“feel”	of	the	water	with	your	feet.
Sit	on	the	edge	of	the	pool,	feet	dangling	in	the	water,	and	practice	the
flutter	kick.	Keep	your	ankles	flexible	and	moving	as	you	kick.
2.	Wall	Kick:
	To	practice	good	kicking	form	and	leg	position.
Assume	the	bracket	position	(see	
this	page
),	holding	on	to	the	edge	of
the	pool,	with	one	hand	grasping	the	edge	and	pulling	outward,	the
other	dropped	below	the	water	surface	and	pushing	against	the	wall	for
leverage.	Flutter	kick	in	the	prone	position,	with	the	power	coming	from
the	hip,	just	making	the	water	“boil.”
3.	Free	Kick:
	To	strengthen	the	leg	muscles;	to	practice	good	kicking
form	with	the	body	in	proper	swimming	position.	A	kickboard	is
optional.
With	arms	extended	straight	in	front	of	you,	flutter	kick	for	several
laps.	If	you	use	a	kickboard,	you	can	either	keep	your	head	above	water
and	breathe	normally,	or	you	can	practice	your	rhythmic	breathing.	If	no
kickboard	is	used,	take	a	rhythmic	breath,	when	needed,	by	lowering	the
arm	on	your	breathing	side	and	sculling	during	the	inhalation.
4.	Kick	and	Roll:
	To	get	a	different	feel	for	the	water	during	kicking;
to	practice	the	body	roll.	This	drill	should	be	done	without	a	board.
Do	the	free-kick	drill,	and	after	every	ten	kicks	rotate	your	body	a
quarter	turn,	so	that	you	first	kick	in	a	prone	position.	(Use	your	topmost
arm	to	scull	whenever	you	need	to	inhale,	and	use	the	S-pattern
underwater	pull	to	change	positions.)
A	variation	of	this	drill	is	kicking	on	your	side	for	a	specified	distance
(i.e.,	half	a	lap),	then	rotating	onto	the	other	side.
F
REESTYLE
	D
RILLS
:	B
REATHING
Breathing,	the	hardest	part	of	the	freestyle	for	many	people,	requires
both	coordination	and	good	breath	control.	The	arm	and	leg	drills	can	be
adapted	to	include	breathing	practice,	as	you	will	see.
1.	Catch-up	Freestyle:
	To	prolong	the	stroke,	giving	you	time	to	think
of	the	breathing	and	to	coordinate	it	with	the	arm	movement.
Practice	the	catch-up	drill	as	described	on	
this	page
,	adding	rhythmic
breathing.
2.	Wall	and	Free	Kick:
	To	coordinate	rhythmic	breathing	with	flutter
kicking.
Do	the	wall	and	free-kick	drills	(
this	page
),	incorporating	rhythmic
breathing.	During	the	wall	kick,	inhale	on	the	side	of	the	underwater
arm.	During	the	free	kicking,	hold	the	kickboard	far	enough	away	from
you	to	allow	your	head	to	rotate	into	and	out	of	the	water	as	you
practice	your	rhythmic	breathing.	Try	adding	the	crawl-stroke	arm
motion	during	both	drills	by	alternately	grasping	and	releasing	the	pool
wall	or	the	kickboard	between	strokes.
3.	Bilateral	Breathing:
	To	help	balance	the	stroke;	to	streamline	your
technique;	to	improve	your	breathing	capacity.
Breathe	every	third	stroke	instead	of	every	second	stroke,	so	that	you
turn	your	head	to	your	accustomed	breathing	side	for	only	every	other
inhalation.
Practice	this	standing	on	land,	then	walking	in	shoulder-deep
water	as	you	stroke.
Swim	one	lap	breathing	bilaterally;	then	swim	normally	for	one
lap.
(This	drill	also	gives	you	greater	visibility	as	you	swim—important	in
a	crowded	pool,	or	in	a	race	where	you	want	to	check	out	the
competition	on	both	sides	of	you.	Over	long	distances,	alternate
breathing	also	gives	your	sternocleidomastoids	an	even	break—these
neck	muscles	can	become	overworked	if	you	continually	turn	your	neck
to	the	same	side.	It	gives	your	arm	muscles	on	your	nonbreathing	side	a
rest,	too,	since	that	arm	tends	to	pull	a	bit	harder	during	the	inhalation.)
4.	Controlled	Breathing:
	To	develop	endurance	and	breathing
capacity;	to	enhance	your	ability	to	get	a	“second	wind.”
Inhale	on	every	other	stroke	cycle	(every	four	strokes—
alternate	breathing);	then	increase	your	breath	control	by
inhaling	on	every	third	cycle	(six	strokes).
Do	bilateral	breathing,	increasing	and	decreasing	the	number	of
strokes	between	breaths	(i.e.,	inhale	every	third,	fifth,	seventh,
fifth,	then	third	strokes).
C
OMMON
	F
REESTYLE
	E
RRORS	AND
W
HAT	TO
	D
O
	A
BOUT
	T
HEM
Body	Position
Error
Correction
Body	not	streamlined
and/or	too	low	in
water
Stretch	and	straighten	body—
think
	streamlined.	Body	level	depends
upon	individual	buoyancy,	head	position,	and	arm	and	leg	motions.
The	faster	you	go,	the	higher	your	body	rides	in	the	water.
Head	too	low	in	water
during	exhalation
Keep	water	at	hairline	or	cap	level.	Do	head-up	freestyle	drill.
Rear	end	sticks	up
(body	too	piked)
Arch	lower	back	slightly;	press	hips	toward	bottom	and	tuck	in	the
buttocks.
Irregular	or	bouncy
stroke
Check	rhythm	of	all	parts	of	stroke;	practice	skills	in	pairs	(arms	and
legs;	legs	and	breathing;	arms	and	breathing).
No	body	roll
Do	glide-freestyle	drill.
Low	body	sways,	but
upper	body	is	still
Do	glide-freestyle	drill,	letting	upper	body	roll	from	shoulder	and	legs
follow	through.
Uneven	stroke	because
of	too	much	body
roll	on	breathing
side
Do	bilateral-breathing	drill;	rotate	head	past	midpoint	during	exhalation
to	even	out	roll;	practice	late	breathing.
Body	is	off	balance	to
one	side
Contract	muscles	slightly	along	sides	of	torso	to	shift	balance	and	to
place	hips	in	horizontal	and	lateral	alignment	with	rest	of	body;	do
glide-freestyle	drill.	Pull	with	small	kickboard	between	your	legs.
Arms:	S-Pattern	Pull
Error
Correction
Fast	and/or	sloppy	stroke
Do	catch-up	freestyle	drill.
Hands	enter	too	close	to	head	and
cross	beyond	midpoint	of	body
during	underwater	pull,	causing
body	to	zigzag
Practice	S-pattern	pull,	making	sure	hands	enter	water
shoulder	width	apart;	practice	in	front	of	mirror,	in
shallow	water,	swimming.
Hand	enters	at	wrong	angle	to	miss
catch	of	stroke;	hands	pointed
upward,	or	flat	(causes	splash),
Slide	arm	downward	at	30-to	45-degree	angle,	four	to	eight
inches	under	surface.	Slice	water	smoothly	like	a	knife
with	fingertips;	thumb	slightly	downward	to	begin	pull.
upward,	or	flat	(causes	splash),
or	catch	air	upon	entry
with	fingertips;	thumb	slightly	downward	to	begin	pull.
Fingers	tight	and	stiff,	cupped,	or
spread	apart
Relax	fingers,	keeping	them	close	together	but	not	clamped
tightly.
Pulling	straight-armed	and/or
“slipping”	through	water
Keep	elbows	bent	and	higher	than	hands;	pull	with	an
exaggerated	S	pattern	and	press	a	still	column	of	water
back	to	get	most	leverage	and	power;	be	certain	to	brush
thumb	past	thigh	before	recovery.
Elbows	are	lower	than	hands,
slipping	through	water
Do	catch-up	and	fist-closed	drills.
Unbalanced	stroke	(one	side
stronger	than	the	other)
Do	one-arm	pull	drill;	apply	S	pattern	evenly.	Do	dig
freestyle	drill.
Straight,	high,	or	wide	arm
recovery
Lift	elbows	out	of	water	first,	with	elbow	bent	at	a	90-
degree	angle.	Let	fingertips	skim	the	surface	of	the	water
and	then	reach	forward	for	the	catch.
Tremendous	effort	required	for	arm
recovery;	arm	drags	through
water	during	recovery
Recover	arm	with	elbow	leading	and	high	above	surface,	so
that	forearm	and	hand	clear	water.
Hesitation	during	stroke;	arms
remain	in	catch	position	too	long
Catch-up	is	a	drill	only;	when	swimming,	move	arms	in
opposition.
Legs:	Prone	Flutter	Kick
Error
Correction
Bicycle	riding	(bent	knees	and
rubbery	legs)
Do	kick	drills—begin	thrust	of	kick	from	hip	and	thigh.
Breaking	surface	and	splashing
(kicking	too	high)
Do	kick	drills—make	water	just	“boil”;	lower	legs	and	lift
shoulders;	check	to	see	if	head	is	too	low.
Flexed	feet	and/or	stiff	ankles;
inefficient	kick;	little	forward
movement;	foot	cramps
Do	sit-and-kick	drill;	use	fins	for	swimming	and	other	drills	to
get	a	better	feel	for	water,	increased	flexibility	and	greater
strength.
movement;	foot	cramps
strength.
Uneven	kick,	or	forced,
uncomfortable	kick
Pick	most	comfortable	kick	(two-beat	flutter,	six-beat	flutter,
with	or	without	crossover	or	trudgeon)	and	stick	to	it;	keep
rhythm	constant	during	kick	drills.
Shallow	kick	(less	than	twelve
inches)
Use	fins	during	kick	drills	for	greater	range	of	motion,	greater
strength,	and	better	feel	for	the	water.
Rhythmic	Breathing
Error
Correction
“Coney	Island”	breathing	(head
turns	to	both	sides	above
water)
Practice	rhythmic	breathing	during	drills.
Getting	a	mouthful	of	water
instead	of	air;	arm	blocks
inhalation
Remember	“Law	of	Opposites”	when	doing	rhythmic	breathing;
inhale	in	air	pocket	created	by	“bow	wave.”
Running	out	of	breath	too
quickly
Inhale	and	exhale	fully	and	continuously;	practice	controlled
breathing	drill.
Breathing	irregularly;	holding
your	breath
Practice	continuous	rhythmic	breathing.
Neck	discomfort	during
rhythmic	breathing
Do	bilateral-breathing	drill	to	determine	most	comfortable	side.
Head	goes	too	far	underwater
during	exhalation
Lift	head	up	to	hairline	or	cap	level,	and	look	slightly	forward
to	approaching	wall	during	exhalation.
Head	turns	too	far	and/or	too
long	to	side	during
exhalation
Turn	head	just	so	lower	edge	of	mouth	is	at	water	level	to	get
“bite”	of	air	in	pocket	created	by	“bow	wave.”
Looking	backward	over
shoulder	during	inhalation
Look	diagonally	forward	during	inhalation.
Chin	lifts	during	inhalation
Pivot	head	from	side	to	side	as	if	it	were	a	doorknob.
Stroke	hesitation	during
Practice	rhythmic	breathing	on	other	side.
Stroke	hesitation	during
inhalation
Practice	rhythmic	breathing	on	other	side.
Mouth	and	nose	stay
underwater	during	rhythmic
breathing
Lift	head	slightly	forward	and	maintain	steady,	strong	pull	and
kick	during	head	rotation	to	keep	body	position	as	high	as
possible.
Mouth	stays	closed	during
exhalation;	no	sign	of	air
bubbles
Begin	steady	exhalation	through	both	nose	and	mouth	as	soon
as	face	reenters	water;	continue	exhaling	until	next
inhalation.
Water	enters	nose
Exhale	out	nose	when	face	is	underwater.
B
ACKSTROKE
T
he	backstroke	is	popular,	largely	because	breathing	poses	no	problem
—since	you	swim	on	your	back,	your	nose	and	mouth	stay	above	the
surface	and	you	can	breathe	normally	during	the	entire	stroke	cycle.
Many	swimmers	find	that	the	supine	position	also	allows	for	efficient	leg
action,	which	helps	compensate	for	the	relative	inefficiency	of	the	angle
of	the	arm	stroke.	Of	course,	the	disadvantage	of	the	backstroke	is	that
when	you’re	on	your	back	you	can’t	see	where	you’re	going,	only	where
you’ve	been.
The	earliest	backstrokers	did	a	variation	of	the	inverted	breaststroke.
The	elementary	backstroke	(taught	in	Part	One),	which	uses	the	whip
kick,	is	similar	to	this	old	style.	Since	many	people	find	this	variation
relatively	easy	to	master,	it’s	often	used	to	introduce	the	more	familiar
windmill	backstroke.
The	big	hero	of	backstroke	history	is	Harry	Hebner,	who	introduced
the	alternating	arm	pull	during	the	1912	Olympics.	Since	that	time	the
backstroke	has	undergone	many	subtler	changes,	too,	including	the
powerful	and	efficient	bent-arm	pull	you’ll	find	here,	which	is	similar	to
the	S-pattern	pull	in	the	freestyle.	John	Naber	won	his	Olympic	medals
in	1976	using	these	same	techniques.
L
EARNING	THE
	B
ACKSTROKE
The	backstroke	is	often	called	the	back	crawl—and	that’s	the	easiest	way
to	visualize	it:	you	lie	on	your	back,	your	arms	moving	alternately	and
rotating	from	the	shoulder	like	a	windmill,	while	your	legs	do	an
inverted	flutter	kick.	The	backstroke	used	today	incorporates	a	bent-arm
underwater	pull,	which	is	a	refinement	of	the	traditional	but	less
efficient	straight-arm	pull.	In	this	stroke,	the	arms	should	supply	about
three	fourths	of	the	forward	propulsion,	the	legs	one	fourth.
“Where	am	I?”	To	keep	from	bumping	your	head	on	the	pool	wall,
count	the	number	of	strokes	you	need	per	lap	the	first	time	you	swim	it,
and	for	each	lap	thereafter.	Or,	to	save	counting,	spot	a	landmark,	such
as	a	ceiling	mark,	a	ladder,	or	a	depth	indicator,	and	fix	the	number	of
strokes	to	carry	you	from	that	point	to	the	wall.	(Most	pools	have	flags
strung	across	them	five	yards	from	each	end	for	just	this	purpose.)	If
you’re	not	sure	how	close	you	are	to	the	wall,	leave	one	hand	overhead
and	“kick	in”	rather	than	overpull	and	risk	bumping	your	head.
Body	Position
Your	body	is	in	a	supine	position,	with	your	legs	stretched	out	straight.
Your	head	should	be	facing	straight	up,	your	chin	should	be	tipped
slightly	
toward	the	chest,	and	your	eyes	should	be	looking	diagonally
toward	your	feet.	The	water	level	should	be	at	the	middle	of	your	head,
with	your	ears	just	submerged.	Keep	your	back	straight	but	not	rigid.
Your	hips	should	be	as	close	to	the	water’s	surface	as	possible,	but	lower
than	your	shoulders.
The	bent-arm	backstroke
The	Catch
The	pull	(phase	1)
.
The	pull	(phase	2)
.
The	recovery
.
Arm	Motion
As	with	the	freestyle,	each	arm	rotates	alternately	from	the	shoulder,
with	one	pulling	underwater	while	the	other	returns	to	the	starting
position	by	recovering	upward	out	of	the	water.	In	the	bent-arm	pull	the
arm	bends	in	and	down	toward	the	legs	at	the	beginning	of	the	second
phase.
Practice	the	arm	movement	standing	on	land	first,	then	standing	in
shoulder-deep	water,	leaning	backward	to	feel	the	stroke	in	the	water;
then	begin	walking	backward	as	the	arm	stroke	propels	you	in	that
direction.
		
THE	CATCH
The	backstroke	arm	motion	begins	with	the	
catch
,	where	the	hand	enters
the	water	at	the	top	of	the	stroke.	Keep	your	arm	straight	but	not	locked
at	the	elbow,	and	your	hand	in	line	with	the	shoulder.	Slide	your	hand,
little	finger	first,	down	through	the	water	like	a	knife,	four	to	eight
inches	below	the	surface,	to	get	a	good	“hold”	on	the	water.
		
THE	PULL
Once	you’ve	gotten	a	hold	on	the	water,	begin	the	two-phase	bent-arm
pull	from	the	catch	position.
PHASE
	1:	Pull	your	arm	backward	and	downward.	As	the	pull	continues,
the	elbow	begins	to	bend	and	to	move	in	toward	the	waist.
PHASE
	2:	When	your	hand	reaches	shoulder	level,	continue	to	bend	your
elbow	in	and	down	toward	your	waist.	Then	pivot	the	forearm,	pressing
“still”	water	straight	down	toward	your	feet,	as	if	you	were	throwing	a
ball	behind	you.	During	this	last	phase	of	the	pull,	accelerate	your	stroke
to	provide	as	much	power	as	possible,	and	end	with	your	hand	fully
extended	below	your	leg.	(This	is	similar	to	phase	2	of	the	freestyle,
where	you	pull	under	your	stomach	in	order	to	push	still	water	back
toward	your	feet.)
The	bent-arm	pull	for	the	backstroke
.
		
THE	RECOVERY
Lift	your	arm	(thumbs	up)	and	brush	your	hand	past	your	outer	thigh	to
begin	the	
recovery
.	Continue	the	upward	motion	with	the	arm	extended
but	relaxed,	and	swing	it	straight	up	and	overhead	in	a	semicircle.	At
this	point,	your	thumb	position	should	be	whatever	is	most	comfortable
for	you;	the	recovery	should	give	your	hand,	arms,	and	shoulder	muscles
a	chance	to	relax.	Enter	with	the	pinky	down	for	the	catch,	to	begin	the
stroke	again.
Body	Roll
As	your	arms	move,	your	body	will	tend	to	roll	through	the	water.	This
rotation	should	occur	smoothly	and	naturally	around	a	central	axis—
your	spinal	column.	As	your	right	arm	enters	the	water,	your	right
shoulder	follows	and	dips	down	at	an	angle	of	about	45	degrees	to	the
water	line;	your	left	shoulder	simultaneously	rotates	up	45	degrees	from
the	water	line.	As	your	right	arm	pulls,	your	shoulders	return	to	the
normal	horizontal	position;	then	you	roll	to	the	left	as	your	left	arms
enters	the	water.	The	roll	originates	in	the	shoulders	and	chest	and
travels	down	the	body	to	the	hips.	(The	head	stays	straight	during	the
roll.)	Body	roll	helps	your	stroke	efficiency	by	allowing	the	pulling	arm
to	pull	deeper	(and	so	to	press	continuously	against	new	water),	and	by
cutting	down	on	the	resistance	meeting	your	recovery	arm	(since	that
shoulder	is	now	out	of	the	water).
Leg	Motion
The	backstroke	uses	the	flutter	kick,	with	legs	close	together	and	moving
up	and	down	alternately,	similar	to	the	action	in	the	crawl.	The	kick	is
more	important	in	the	backstroke	than	in	the	crawl,	however,	because	of
the	supine	body	position—much	of	your	below-the-waist	weight	is
beneath	the	water	line.	The	flutter	kick	also	serves	to	stabilize	the	body
position	during	the	shoulder	roll.	Practice	flutter	kicking	while	sitting	on
a	chair,	sofa,	or	pool	deck.	Make	sure	that	the	kick	originates	in	the	hip
and	thigh.	Then	practice	while	holding	on	to	the	pool	wall	or	steps,	and
finally	progress	to	free	kicking	(see	the	drills	that	follow).
To	do	the	flutter	kick,	move	your	legs	up	and	down	alternately,	as	if
you	were	walking.	Keep	your	legs	close	together	and	kick	twelve	to
eighteen	inches	deep.	The	action	emanates	from	your	hip	and	thigh;
your	knees	should	stay	loose	and	flexible.	The	knee	actually	bends
slightly	on	the	upbeat	of	the	kick,	supplying	more	of	its	energy	there,
then	straightens	on	the	downbeat.	The	feet	should	flex	and	bend	easily
at	the	ankle	in	a	whipping	action	to	add	to	the	propulsion.	Keep	your
feet	just	below	the	surface	of	the	water	when	you	kick	and	just	make	the
water	foam	or	boil.
Breathing
Since	your	face	stays	above	the	water	throughout,	breathing	during	the
backstroke	is	simply	a	matter	of	keeping	a	steady	rhythm	for	both
inhalation	and	exhalation,	usually	with	one	breath	cycle	per	arm	cycle.
Be	certain	not	to	breathe	too	fast	or	too	shallowly.
Coordinating	Arms	and	Legs
The	usual	is	a	six-beat	kick:	six	kicks	per	arm	cycle,	or	three	kicks	per
arm	stroke.	Variations	on	the	six-beat	kick,	such	as	the	four-beat	or	two-
beat	kick,	are	very	rare	in	the	backstroke.	Again,	though,	you	should	just
aim	for	a	consistent	rhythm	and	not	worry	too	much	about	actually
counting	your	beats.
C
HECKLIST	FOR	A
	B
ETTER
	B
ACKSTROKE
After	you	have	the	basics	of	the	backstroke,	keep	these	pointers	in	mind
as	you	practice.
Keep	your	back	straight	and	your	head	still	throughout	the
stroke.	If	you	tend	to	“sit”	in	the	water,	arch	your	back	upward
slightly	and	look	at	the	ceiling.
Tighten	the	buttocks	but	relax	the	waist.
Keep	your	arms	working	continuously	and	in	opposition	to	each
other.	There’s	no	glide	in	this	stroke—as	one	hand	enters	the
water	above	your	head,	the	other	is	emerging	at	your	hip.
Slice	your	hand	cleanly	into	the	water,	pinky	first,	for	the	catch.
Let	the	body	roll	naturally	during	phase	1	of	the	pull.
As	you	bring	your	elbow	close	to	the	waist	and	complete	phase
2	(the	“ball-throwing”	phase)	of	the	pull,	come	close	to	the
surface	of	the	water,	but	be	careful	not	to	break	it.	Remember,
you	don’t	get	anywhere	by	pushing	air.
During	the	recovery,	keep	your	arm	fully	extended	but	not
tense,	with	the	wrist	relaxed;	imagine	that	your	shoulder	is
leading	the	action.
Accentuate	the	upbeat	on	the	kick.
Keep	your	legs	underwater	throughout	the	kick,	which	is	a
rapid	but	relaxed	action.	Although	the	knees	bend	slightly,
make	sure	that	the	power	comes	from	the	hip	and	drives
whiplike	down	through	the	leg	and	toward	the	feet.	The	idea	is
to	propel	a	column	of	water	backward.
The	kick	accounts	for	one	quarter	of	the	power	of	this	stroke,
but	don’t	overkick—just	make	the	water	“boil.”
B
ACKSTROKE
	D
RILLS
:	A
RMS

These	drills	may	be	done	with	or	without	a	pull-buoy	for	support.	You
might	also	like	to	try	the	new	smaller	hand	paddles	made	especially	for
the	backstroke,	in	order	to	provide	additional	resistance	and	a	better
“feel”	for	the	water;	inner	tubes	supply	extra	resistance	for	the	more
advanced	swimmer,	too	(see	
this	page
).
NOTE
:	Even	though	these	are	arm	drills,	some	may	require	kicking	to
maintain	body	position	and	smooth	motion.
1.	Catch-up	Backstroke:
	To	slow	down	the	stroke	in	order	to
articulate	the	bent-arm	pull.
Begin	by	flutter	kicking	in	the	supine	position	with	your	arms
extended	overhead.	Do	the	bent-arm	
S
	pull	with	each	arm	alternately,
touching	one	to	the	other	at	the	catch	position	before	beginning	the	next
stroke.
Practice	while	standing	on	land,	then	while	standing	in	shallow
water,	then	while	walking	backward	in	shoulder-deep	water.
Pull	for	one	lap	doing	the	catch-up;	then	swim	for	one	lap.
Do	half	a	lap	catch-up;	then	complete	the	lap	by	swimming.
Pull	for	four	catch-up	strokes;	then	complete	the	lap	by
swimming.
(If	you	have	trouble	keeping	your	lower	body	up	during	this	drill,	kick
slightly,	or	use	a	pull-buoy	to	support	you,	or	alter	the	drill	by	extending
your	arms	along	your	sides	during	the	catch-up	(so	that	your	arms	don’t
touch,	and	you	begin	the	stroke	with	the	recovery	instead	of	the	catch).
2.	One-arm	Pulls:
	To	even	out	the	stroke;	to	develop	shoulder	roll;	to
isolate	the	bent-arm	S	pull	with	each	arm.	This	drill	may	be	done	with	or
without	kicking.
Pull	with	one	arm	at	a	time,	keeping	the	nonpulling	arm	stretched	out
in	the	catch	position.
Pull	with	one	arm	per	lap,	or	alternate	the	number	of	strokes
done	with	each	arm	(for	instance,	pull	eight	times	on	the	right,
then	eight	times	on	the	left).	Or	alternate	in	a
descending/ascending	progression:	8R,	8L;	4R,	4L;	2R,	2L;	1R,
1L;	then	2R,	2L;	4R,	4L;	8R,	8L.
A	practice	variation	is	to	swim	close	enough	to	hug	the	side	wall	of	the
pool	in	order	to	develop	your	sense	of	proper	hand	position	during	the
bent-arm	pull.	Another	variation	is	to	do	this	drill	with	the	nonpulling
arm	held	at	your	side.
3.	Glide	Backstroke:
	To	get	a	better	“feel”	for	the	water;	to	slow	down
the	stroke	in	order	to	concentrate	on	stroke	details;	to	practice	body	roll,
and	to	accentuate	phase	2	of	the	pull.	This	drill	may	be	done	with	or
without	kicking.
Move	both	arms	alternately	but,	at	each	extension	of	the	pull,	hold	the
hand	in	the	overhead	catch	position	for	as	long	as	possible,	and	glide	in
the	water,	feeling	the	body	roll.
Pull	or	swim	for	one	lap	doing	the	glide	backstroke;	then	swim
the	regular	backstroke	for	one	lap.
Pull	or	swim	for	half	a	lap	doing	the	glide	backstroke;	then
complete	the	lap	by	swimming.
Pull	for	four	glide	backstrokes;	then	complete	the	lap	by
swimming.
NOTE
:	This	is	a	
drill
	only;	when	doing	the	backstroke,	a	glide	is
undesirable—aim	for	a	constant	motion	with	your	arms.)
4.	DPS	(Distance	Per	Stroke):
	To	increase	the	efficiency	of	each
stroke.
Count	the	strokes	needed	to	complete	one	lap	while	pulling	only.	On
successive	laps,	try	to	lower	the	number	of	strokes	needed.
Incorporate	the	glide	backstage	to	slow	down	your	stroke,	and	take
time	to	exert	more	pressure	during	the	bent-arm	pull	in	order	to	push
more	still	water	back.
5.	Double-arm	Backstroke:
	To	get	a	feel	for	the	bent-arm	pull	by
doing	it	with	both	arms	simultaneously.
Do	the	backstroke,	pulling	with	both	arms	together,	and	pausing	at	the
catch	to	glide.
Pull	one	lap	of	the	double-arm	backstroke;	then	swim	one	lap	of
regular	backstroke.
Use	the	whip	kick	(or	frog	kick)	(See	“Breaststroke,”	
this	page
)
while	pulling.
Use	the	dolphin	kick	(see	“Butterfly	Stroke,”	
this	page
)	while
pulling.
(This	drill	can	also	be	used	as	a	stroke	variation.	Some	swimmers	find	it
easier	than	the	alternating-arm	windmill	backstroke,	or	useful	as	a
preliminary	step	in	learning	the	windmill.	Since	you	can’t	utilize	the
body	roll	here,	the	pull	is	shallower	than	in	the	regular	backstroke.)
B
ACKSTROKE
	D
RILLS
:	L
EGS
Do	these	drills	with	or	without	fins;	fins	help	your	ankle	flexibility,
which	is	very	important	in	the	backstroke	kick.	You	may	need	to	hold	on
to	a	kickboard	or	to	support	your	head	with	a	pull-buoy,	but	most	people
will	find	these	unnecessary.	Kick	drills,	done	with	no	arm	motion,
improve	the	technique	of	your	kick	and	strengthen	the	leg	muscles—
important	in	this	stroke,	since	your	body	position	depends	on	a	good
kick.
1.	Sit	and	Kick:
	To	get	a	“feel”	for	the	water	by	keeping	your	ankles
as	loose	as	possible	while	kicking	from	the	hip	and	thigh.
Flutter	kick	while	sitting	on	the	edge	of	the	pool,	on	steps	in	the
shallow	water,	or	on	a	ladder	rung.
2.	Wall	Kick:
	To	practice	supine	kicking	and	to	get	a	feel	for	proper
body	position.
With	both	hands,	hold	on	to	the	edge	of	the	pool,	the	steps	in	the
shallow	end,	or	a	ladder.	Get	comfortable	(the	corner	is	the	best	wall
position).	Flutter	kick	in	the	supine	position,	trying	to	make	the	water
just	“boil,”	and	kicking	from	the	thigh	and	hip.
3.	Free	Kick:
	To	practice	good	flutter	kicking	form	and	body	position.
Flutter	kick	on	your	back	with	both	arms	extended	overhead	and
pressed	close	to	your	ears,	and	with	your	palms	touching.	Keep	your
body	as	stretched	and	streamlined	as	possible,	and	your	head	stationary
in	line	with	your	body.	(If	you	need	to	at	first,	place	a	kickboard	above
your	stomach,	holding	the	edges	lightly,	as	if	you	were	playing	a	piano.)
4.	Kick	and	Roll:
	To	get	a	feel	for	the	water	in	different	positions;	to
practice	body	roll.	(May	also	serve	as	a	preliminary	step	in	coordinating
the	arm	and	leg	motions.)
Do	the	free-kick	drill,	rotating	your	body	a	quarter	turn	after	every	ten
kicks.	Begin	in	the	supine	position,	then	turn	onto	one	side,	then	onto
your	back	again,	then	onto	the	other	side,	and	onto	your	back	once
more.	Use	the	bent-arm	pull	to	rotate	your	body	and	a	sculling	motion	to
raise	your	head	when	you	need	to	inhale	while	you’re	on	your	side.
5.	Supine	Half-turns:
	To	obtain	a	higher	shoulder	recovery;	to	balance
body	roll;	to	increase	DPS.
Do	the	free-kick	drill	with	one	arm	extended	overhead	in	the	catch
position,	the	other	down	at	your	side	with	the	shoulder	raised	as	during
the	body	roll.
Kick	whole	laps,	alternating	the	extended	arm	for	each	lap.
Kick	six	beats,	alternating	arms	for	each	set	of	kicks.	(Change
arms	mid-lap	by	doing	the	bent-arm	pull	with	the	extended	arm
and	recovering	with	the	other.)
Change	arms	after	every	three	kicks.	(This	can	also	be	a
preliminary	step	in	coordinating	the	arm	and	leg	motions.)
C
OMMON
	B
ACKSTROKE
	E
RRORS	AND
	W
HAT	TO
	D
O
	A
BOUT
	T
HEM
Body	Position
Error
Correction
“Sitting”	in	the	water;	body
position	too	low,	or	piked	at
hips.
Push	chest	up	and	arch	back,	pressing	hips	closer	to	surface.
Check	head	position;	if	too	low,	body	will	pike.
Head	too	far	back,	too	far	forward,
and/or	moving
Tuck	chin	in	so	that	water	barely	covers	ears;	keep	head
still.
Arms:	Bent-Arm	Pull
Error
Correction
Flat	hand	entry	at	catch
Pinky	enters	first,	four	to	eight	inches	under	water.
Arms	crossing	beyond
midline	of	body	during
entry
Hands	should	recover	and	enter	along	the	shoulder	line.
Stroke	too	fast	and	shallow,
missing	depth	of	pull
Do	catch-up	backstroke	drill;	concentrate	on	shoulder	roll,	pulling
1½	feet	below	surface	and	continually	pushing	“still”	water.
Straight-arm	underwater
pull	(thus	reducing
leverage)
Press	“still”	water	with	bent-arm	S	pull;	do	catch-up	double-arm
backstroke	drill	and	one-arm	backstroke	drill.
Arm	bent	during	recovery
For	recovery,	arm	should	be	straight	and	directly	over	shoulder,
close	to	midline	of	body.	Arm	lift	natural	and	relaxed.
Irregular	or	hesitant	pull
Remember	opposition	of	arms	while	pulling:	as	one	arm	pulls,	the
other	recovers.
Legs:	Supine	Flutter	Kick
Error
Correction
Legs	too	high	and/or	bent;
splashing	water
Legs	should	just	make	water	“boil”	or	foam	at	surface.
Stiff	knees
Knees	should	bend	slightly	on	upbeat	(power)	phase
Shallow	kick
Kick	should	be	about	1½	feet	deep	at	lowest	point;	use	fins
during	kick	drills.
Toes	turned	outward	or	flexed
straight	up;	ankles	stiff
Toes	should	be	turned	inward	during	upbeat	to	push	water
backward.
Irregular	kick
Let	an	even,	rhythmic	kick	come	naturally	(a	six-beat	kick
usually	completes	one	full	arm	cycle).
Legs	and	hips	too	low	in	water
Arch	back	slightly	and	emphasize	upbeat	of	kick.
Breathing
Error
Correction
Water	washes	over	face,	making
breathing	difficult
Check	head	and	body	position;	keep	head	still	and	look
diagonally	in	direction	from	which	you	are	swimming.
Not	exhaling	completely	or	inhaling
deeply,	causing	undue	fatigue
Establish	and	maintain	rhythmic	inhalation	and	exhalation
that	is	full	and	deep.
B
REASTSTROKE
I
n	its	commonly	used	form,	the	breaststroke	would	probably	win	a
worldwide	popularity	contest,	thanks	to	its	most	outstanding
characteristic—a	relatively	long,	restful	glide.	The	stroke’s	two	other
attractions	are	the	natural	way	that	the	breathing	coordinates	with	the
lift	of	the	head	and	shoulders,	and	its	excellent	visibility.	All	in	all,	this
is	an	easy	and	relaxing	stroke	when	swum	slowly.
For	the	fitness	swimmer,	the	breaststroke	is	more	than	a	good	way	to
vary	the	strenuousness	and	pace	of	a	workout.	It’s	also	one	of	the	biggest
favors	you	can	do	for	your	inner	and	outer	thighs	as	well	as	your	inner
and	upper	arms—areas	that	stubbornly	resist	toning	and	trimming
during	most	other	forms	of	exercise.	And	they	don’t	call	it	the
breaststroke	for	nothing—the	arm	motions	give	your	pectorals	(the
muscles	that	help	support	and	shape	the	chest	area)	a	real	workout,	too.
The	breaststroke,	by	the	way,	is	also	ideal	for	swimming	in	rough	water,
a	busy	pool,	or	water	rescues.
Historically,	the	breaststroke	is	perhaps	the	oldest	stroke.	For	many
centuries	it	was	the	stroke	that	swimmers	learned.	It’s	long	been	a
favorite	for	recreational	and	practical	purposes,	too,	especially	in
Europe.	The	breaststroke	was	also	the	first	stroke	to	be	used	in
competition.	Now	it’s	the	slowest	of	the	competitive	strokes,	because	of
the	resistance	encountered	by	the	underwater	recovery	of	the	arms	and
legs.	But	it’s	still	the	preferred	stroke	of	many,	and	actually	becomes
quite	strenuous	and	surprisingly	fast	when	swum	at	the	competitive
level.	Anita	Nall	and	Mike	Barrowman,	1992	Olympic	breaststroke
champions	and	record	holders,	
have	demonstrated	how	powerful	and
fast	this	stroke	can	be	swum,	using	recently	developed	techniques.
L
EARNING	THE
	B
REASTSTROKE
The	conventional	breaststroke,	which	had	been	around	for	hundreds	of
years	pretty	much	unchanged,	has	recently	undergone	major	revisions.
These	exciting,	speed-inducing	innovations	have	naturally	been	adopted
by	successful	record-breaking	swimmers,	but	they	also	make	the	stroke
more	effective	for	swimmers	on	virtually	every	level.
The	most	substantial	change	has	been	in	the	kick.	Originally,	almost
everyone	did	a	wide	frog	kick,	in	which	the	knees	lead	as	they	bend	and
the	legs	simultaneously	sweep	outward	in	a	broad	curve	and	finish	by
squeezing	together	while	fully	extended.	Now	the	newer,	narrower,	and
more	efficient	whip	kick	is	recommended;	in	this	kick	much	of	the
propulsion	comes	from	the	calf	and	foot.	The	arm	stroke	has	also	been
improved—from	an	upside-down	heart-shaped	pull	that	allows	one	to
press	“still”	water	backward,	to	using	a	sculling	motion	for	greater
propulsion.
In	the	breaststroke,	the	leg	motion	ideally	supplies	50	percent	of	the
forward	propulsion.	However,	if	you	have	a	strong	whip	kick,	by	all
means	take	advantage	of	it	and	allow	your	legs	to	supply	more	than	half
the	power.	In	the	breaststroke,	unlike	in	the	freestyle,	backstroke,	or
butterfly,	you	can’t	really	overkick.
Body	Position
As	you’ll	see	later,	the	hips	and	body	(and	sometimes	the	shoulders,
too)	undulate	slightly	during	the	course	of	the	stroke	cycle,	but	basically
your	body	is	in	a	prone,	face-downward,	streamlined	position.	At	the
beginning	of	the	stroke,	your	arms	should	be	extended	straight	out	in
front	of	you	with	hands	together,	palms	down,	thumbs	slanted	slightly
downward,	angled	about	four	to	eight	inches	below	the	surface.	Your
legs	should	be	extended	with	your	hips	and	feet	just	underwater.
Arm	Motion
In	the	breaststroke,	the	arms	move	simultaneously	and	symmetrically
underwater	throughout	the	entire	stroke,	beginning	with	arms	extended
overhead.	Both	arms	moving	together	trace	the	outline	of	an	upside-
down	
heart	shape	during	the	pull:	a	smooth,	outward,	and	downward
pull	in	phase	1,	and	an	accelerated,	inward	sculling	movement	in	phase
2.	Then	both	arms	extend	overhead	and	straight	underwater	for	the
recovery.
The	breaststroke.
The	catch
.
The	pull	(phase	1)
.
The	pull	(phase	2)
.
The	recovery
.
Practice	just	the	arm	motion,	then	add	coordinated	breathing	as
described	later.	Work	in	shoulder-deep	water,	first	just	standing,	then
walking	forward	as	the	arm	motion	propels	you	through	the	water.	To
learn	sculling,	review	the	sculling	arm	motion	for	treading	on	
this
page
–
this	page
.
		
THE	CATCH
Start	and	end	each	stroke	cycle	by	reaching	with	your	arms	completely
extended	overhead	and	legs	straight	in	a	streamlined	body	position.	The
catch	begins	at	the	top	of	the	upside-down	heart	with	the	hands
approximately	shoulder	width	apart.	Turn	your	hands	so	that	your	palms
face	outward	with	thumbs	pointing	downward.	You	should	feel	your
hands	getting	a	“hold”	on	the	water.
		
THE	PULL
This	is	the	power	part	of	the	arm	motion.	To	get	the	most	leverage,	keep
your	elbows	higher	than	your	hands	throughout.
The	heart-shaped	pull	for	the	breaststroke
.
PHASE	1:
	After	the	catch,	pull	by	moving	your	arms	diagonally	outward,
keeping	elbows	slightly	bent.	This	pull	ends	approximately	at	the
shoulders.
PHASE
	2:	Turn	your	hands	inward	with	thumbs	pointing	up,	bring	your
forearms	inward	under	your	chest,	then	squeeze	your	elbows	together,
completing	the	bottom	of	the	heart	shape.	This	motion	creates	a	high
upper-body	position.	Your	shoulders	and	head	rise	up	here	to	allow	you
to	take	a	breath.
		
THE	RECOVERY
This	should	be	a	smooth,	natural	motion	that	blends	imperceptibly	with
the	end	of	the	pull.	With	your	hands	four	to	eight	inches	underwater,
elbows	close	to	your	body,	and	your	arms	as	parallel	to	the	surface	as
possible,	quickly	bring	your	arms	forward	into	a	streamlined	position.
You	can	recover	your	hands	with	palms	together,	in	a	prayer	position;	or
palms	up,	with	little	fingers	touching;	or	overlapping,	palms	either	up	or
down.	Use	whatever	is	most	comfortable	for	you.	Since	this	is	the
recovery,	not	the	power	phase	of	the	stroke,	the	important	thing	is	to
keep	your	arms	relaxed	to	give	them	a	short	rest,	and	to	get	the	hands
into	a	palms-down	position	as	quickly	as	possible	to	help	streamline	your
body.	During	the	recovery,	your	head	and	shoulders	will	drop	back
down	in	the	water	to	their	starting	position;	as	your	arms	extend	fully,
you’ll	be	ready	for	the	catch,	which	begins	the	next	stroke.
Refined	Breaststroke	Arm	Motion
For	the	competitive	breaststroker,	the	arm	pull	is	often	described	as	a
sculling	action.	At	the	catch,	the	arms	scull	outward,	followed	by	an
inward	scull.	Propulsion	is	obtained	equally	from	both	the	outward	and
the	inward	scull.
Recovery	for	some	swimmers	occurs	with	hands	actually	breaking	the
surface	of	the	water.	To	achieve	this	type	of	recovery,	head	and
shoulders	must	ride	high	in	the	water.
To	help	perfect	this	motion,	practice	sculling	drills,	such	as	vertical
treading.
Leg	Motion
There	are	two	basic	leg	motions—the	frog	and	whip	kicks—that	are	used
when	swimming	breaststroke.	Unlike	the	flutter	kick,	these	leg	motions
are	simultaneous	and	symmetrical.
The	propulsion	from	the	traditional	frog	kick	comes	from	the	legs
sweeping	outward	and	then	squeezing	together	to	compress	the	water.
This	is	basically	the	same	principle	that	oars	use	to	propel	a	rowboat.
The	whip	kick,	on	the	other	hand,	is	more	like	the	propeller	action	that
drives	a	motorboat.	It	results	in	a	more	direct	application	of	backward
force,	in	a	faster	tempo,	and	in	a	more	streamlined	overall	stroke.
However,	the	whip	kick	requires	more	flexibility	in	the	knees,	ankles,
and	feet,	and	may	place	more	of	a	stress	on	your	knees.	(See	Swimmers’
Shape-ups,	
this	page
.)	You	might	begin	with	a	modified	whip	kick,	in
which	you	separate	your	knees	only	slightly	beyond	the	hip	width.	Then
you	can	gradually	work	up	to	the	narrow	whip	described	above.
Whatever	variation	of	the	kick	you	do,	use	how	your	knees	feel	as	an
indicator	of	your	kick.
Practice	on	dry	land	by	lying	face	down	on	a	bench,	or	by	sitting	in	a
chair	(brace	yourself	with	your	arms).	Next,	kick	while	holding	on	to	the
edge	of	the	pool	or	a	step;	finally,	progress	to	the	kick	drills	below.
Whip	Kick:
	In	the	whip	kick,	with	legs	extended	and	together,	begin
by	bringing	your	heels	together	up	close	to	your	buttocks.	Bend	your
hips	as	little	as	possible.	Allow	your	knees	to	separate	to	no	more	than
hip	width	as	you	rotate	your	feet	outward.	Your	feet	are	flexed	at	this
point,	and	your	lower	legs	form	a	V.	Immediately	“whip”	your	lower	legs
down,	around,	and	together	in	an	outward	and	backward	semicircle,
straightening	your	knees	and	pointing	your	feet	during	the	accelerated
snap.	This	circular,	backward	motion—with	the	sole,	instep,	and	calf—
presses	almost	directly	back	on	the	water	and	is	the	main	propulsive
force	behind	the	kick.	Even	though	they	don’t	seem	to	move	very	much,
the	power	actually	comes	mainly	from	the	hip	and	thigh	muscles.	The
kick	ends	with	the	legs	fully	extended	and	pressed	together,	toes	pointed
for	maximum	streamlining.
Frog	Kick:
	In	the	traditional	frog	kick,	you	begin	by	separating	your
knees	wider	than	your	hips	and	bringing	them	to	your	chest,	so	that	your
legs	make	a	diamond	shape.	Then	you	straighten	your	legs,	spread	them
wide	apart,	and	stretch	your	feet	out	to	the	sides,	forming	a	wide	V.
Then	you	squeeze	your	legs	together	to	complete	the	kick,	extending
your	legs	completely	and	pointing	your	toes	for	a	streamlined	position.
Breathing
Inhale	when	the	head	and	shoulders	rise	together	during	the	sculling
phase	of	the	pull.	Exhale	as	your	face	submerges	during	the	recovery.
Ideally,	your	head	should	remain	still	in	relation	to	the	rest	of	your
body.	Try	to	have	the	sensation	that	your	head	is	motionless	and	that	the
water	is	rising	and	falling	around	it.	Be	careful	not	to	nod	your	head.
Coordinating	Arms,	Legs,	and	Breathing
Although	there	is	some	overlap,	the	basic	sequence	is:	“pull	(inhale),
kick,	and	glide.”	Bend	your	knees	to	begin	the	kick	when	the	arms	are
just	finishing	the	pull	and	are	under	your	chest.	As	your	arms	are
beginning	the	recovery,	your	knees	are	bent	to	their	fullest.	Then	both
arms	and	legs	move	simultaneously	to	finish	the	stroke,	with	everything
fully	extended	and	streamlined	for	the	catch,	during	which	your	body
should	be	rail	straight	and	gliding.	Note	that	your	legs	remain	in	the
streamlined	position	a	bit	longer	than	your	arms	do,	since	the	kick
begins	only	after	your	arms	are	well	into	the	pull.
C
HECKLIST	FOR	A
	B
ETTER
	B
REASTSTROKE
As	you	practice,	remember	these	tips:
Keep	your	head	still,	with	your	chin	jutting	out	slightly.
For	the	catch,	keep	your	elbows	straight	with	your	hands	facing
outward;	your	thumbs	are	pointing	down.
The	outward	pull	goes	only	to	shoulder	height.
Inhale	quickly	when	your	head	and	shoulder	rise	naturally	as	a
result	of	the	inward	scull.	Try	not	to	lift	your	head	any	farther
than	you	have	to.
Begin	the	whip	kick	as	your	arms	start	the	pull.
Aim	for	a	narrow	kick—when	your	heels	come	up	toward	the
buttocks,	the	knees,	ideally,	should	be	no	farther	than	hip	width
apart.	But	modify	the	kick	according	to	your	comfort	and
ability.
Snap	your	lower	legs	and	feet	together	in	a	downward	arc	to
get	a	whiplike	action	that	propels	water	directly	backward.
Be	as	streamlined	and	extended	as	possible	during	the	glide,
and	hold	it	for	as	long	as	your	momentum	will	allow.
Try	
downstreaming
,	a	technique	used	in	competitive	swimming
to	gain	more	speed.	Here’s	how	its	done:	at	the	end	of	the	kick
and	the	beginning	of	the	glide,	squeeze	arms	covering	ears,	lift
the	hips,	legs,	and	feet	up	to	the	surface	of	the	water	so	that
they	are	higher	than	the	hands.	This	creates	a	“downstream
position”—almost	as	if	you	were	swimming	downhill.	Since	this
follows	the	rise	and	fall	of	the	torso	during	the	pull,	you	move
in	a	wavelike	motion,	which	gets	your	hips	higher	and	your
entire	body	involved	in	the	stroke.	(This	is	similar	to	the
undulation	found	in	the	butterfly	stroke,	in	which	your	body	is
alternately	piked	and	arched.)
Remember	your	coordination:	pull	(inhale),	kick,	and	glide.
B
REASTSTROKE
	D
RILLS
:	A
RMS
These	drills	may	be	done	with	or	without	a	pull-buoy	for	support,	and,
for	the	more	advanced	swimmer,	with	or	without	additional	resistance
devices	such	as	hand	paddles	(see	
this	page
).	Pull	drills	are	done	with
just	the	arms;	use	your	legs	where	indicated.
1.	Vertical	Treading:
	Stand	in	chin-deep	water	and	review	sculling
arm	motion	for	treading.	Create	a	figure	8	with	each	arm
simultaneously,	keeping	arms	at	chest	level	(see	treading,	
this	page
).
Scull	outward	with	thumbs	down	and	scull	inward	with	thumbs	up.
Bend	your	knees	to	keep	your	feet	off	the	bottom	and	support	your	body
with	the	sculling	arm	motion	only.
2.	Progressive	Sculling:
	To	work	toward	the	breaststroke	heart-shaped
arm	motion	with	coordinated	breathing.
First	standing,	then	walking,	in	shoulder-deep	water,	extend	your	arms
straight	out	in	front	of	you,	palms	facing	out,	and	begin	to	make	small
outward	circles	with	your	wrists,	flexing	them	downward	while	pushing
outward,	then	sculling	them	inward.	Gradually	progress	to	a	larger	pull,
but	don’t	bring	your	hands	farther	than	shoulder	height.
3.	DPS	(Distance	Per	Stroke):
	To	maximize	the	efficiency	of	your
stroke.
Count	the	strokes	you	need	to	complete	a	lap	while	only	pulling,	or
while	swimming.	On	succeeding	laps,	try	to	decrease	the	number	of
strokes	needed.
B
REASTSTROKE
	D
RILLS
:	L
EGS
These	drills	may	be	done	with	or	without	a	kickboard;	you’ll	obtain
better	body	position	without	one.	During	the	drills,	do	the	frog,	whip,	or
modified	whip	kick,	whichever	you	prefer,	unless	specified	otherwise.	In
kick	drills,	only	the	legs	are	used;	this	allows	you	to	improve	your	leg
strength	and	to	concentrate	on	your	kicking	mechanics.
1.	Sit	and	Kick:
	To	get	a	“feel”	for	the	kick.
Sit	on	the	pool	deck,	a	step,	or	a	ladder	rung,	your	legs	extended	to
the	water’s	edge.	Do	the	frog	kick	or	whip	kick,	analyzing	your	form.
Pay	particular	attention	to	the	position	of	the	feet	during	the	whip,	as
this	is	the	trickiest	part	of	the	action	to	master.
2.	Wall	Kick:
	To	practice	good	kicking	form.
In	supine	position:
	Hold	on	to	the	wall	with	your	back	toward	it,	your
arms	extended	to	either	side.	Practice	kicking,	paying	close	attention	to
your	form.
In	prone	position:
	Facing	the	pool	edge,	grasp	the	gutter	with	one	hand
and	press	the	other	hand	flat	against	the	wall,	fingers	pointed
downward,	approximately	two	feet	below	the	water	line.	Practice	your
kick,	being	careful	not	to	break	the	surface.
3.	Free	Kick:
	To	practice	kicking	form;	to	increase	the	power	of	the
kick;	to	get	the	feel	of	correct	body	position.
In	prone	position:
	Extend	your	arms	straight	in	front	of	you,	with	or
without	a	kickboard,	and	kick	several	laps.	If	you	use	a	kickboard,	either
keep	your	head	above	water	and	breathe	normally	or	coordinate	the
inhalation	and	exhalation	with	the	kick.	If	no	kickboard	is	used,	scull
outward	with	your	hands	to	raise	your	shoulders	and	head	when	you
need	to	inhale.
In	supine	position:
	Support	yourself	by	holding	a	kickboard	over	the
abdomen,	your	fingers	resting	lightly	on	the	sides.	Kick	several	laps.
4.	Prone	and	Supine	Heel	Touch:
	To	develop	flexibility	and	power	in
your	whip	kick;	to	balance	and	narrow	the	stroke.
Do	the	whip	kick	with	your	hands	resting	on	your	buttocks,	trying	to
touch	your	heels	to	your	hands.	Inhale	as	your	knees	come	up	to	your
hands.
5.	Vertical	Kick:
	To	strengthen	the	kick.
With	arms	motionless	in	the	water	or	above	the	surface	(the	higher	the
arms,	the	harder	the	drill),	practice	the	whip	kick	while	in	a	vertical
position.	As	a	variation,	try	the	egg-beater	kick	described	on	
this	page
.
B
REASTSTROKE
	D
RILLS
:	C
OORDINATION	AND
B
ODY
	P
OSITION
Because	of	the	nature	of	this	stroke,	the	coordination	of	the	arm	and	leg
motions	affects	the	body’s	position	in	the	water.	The	drills	that	include
the	dolphin	kick	help	you	to	get	the	feel	of	the	wavelike	action	called
downstreaming
,	where	the	hips	and	legs	lift	up.
1.	Pull	with	Dolphin	Kick:
	To	get	a	wavelike	action	in	the	body
(downstreaming).
Alternate	one	breaststroke	pull,	then	one	dolphin	kick	for	an	entire
lap.	Swim	the	next	lap	with	the	regular	breaststroke,	using	the	whip	or
frog	kick,	and	trying	to	incorporate	the	wavelike	action	into	your	stroke.
2.	Double-arm	Backstroke	with	Kick:
	To	coordinate	the	kick	with	a
double	arm	motion	without	rhythmic	breathing.
For	the	first	lap,	do	the	double-arm	backstroke	(both	arms	pulling
together)	with	the	whip	or	frog	kick.	For	the	next	lap,	swim	the	regular
breaststroke.
3.	Pull-Pull-Kick	or	Pull-Kick-Kick:
	For	variety;	to	help	you	get	a	feel
for	the	undulating	body	motion;	to	concentrate	on	the	pull.
Alternate	two	arm	pulls	with	one	whip	kick	or	frog	kick	for	one
lap;	then	swim	the	next	lap	normally.
Alternate	one	arm	pull	with	two	whip	kicks	or	frog	kicks	for
one	lap;	then	swim	the	next	lap	normally.
Do	one	arm	pull,	then	one	whip	kick,	then	one	dolphin	kick,
and	so	on,	for	one	lap;	then	swim	the	next	lap	normally.
Another	variation	is	to	alternate	one	pull	with	two	whip	kicks
followed	by	two	dolphin	kicks.
4.	Push-off:
	To	check	streamlining;	to	slow	down	the	parts	of	the
stroke	in	order	to	feel	each	one	better.
Push	off	the	wall	of	the	pool	underwater	and	see	how	far	you	can	go
with	one	slow	pull-kick-glide.
B
REASTSTROKE
	D
RILL
:	B
REATHING
Breathing	during	the	breaststroke	occurs	as	the	head	and	shoulders
naturally	lift	out	of	the	water	as	a	result	of	the	inward	arm	motion
(phase	2	of	the	pull).	So	practice	the	coordination	during	the	arm,	leg,
and	body	position	drills	described	earlier.	To	increase	your	breathing
capacity,	try	this	one.
Coordinated	Breathing:
	Stand	in	chest-deep	water.	In	slow	motion,
practice	coordinating	each	breaststroke	arm	pull	with	a	breath.	Be
certain	to	inhale	and	exhale	fully.
C
OMMON
	B
REASTSTROKE
	E
RRORS	AND
	W
HAT	TO
	D
O
A
BOUT
	T
HEM
Body	Position
Error
Correction
Body	not
streamlined
Stretch	and	extend	the	body	during	the	glide;	practice	push-off	drill	for
“downstreaming”	effect.
Body	position	too
low
Accentuate	upward	hip	motion;	practice	breaststroke	arm	pull	with	dolphin
kick.
Hips	too	high
Straighten	body	line	at	waist.	Arch	lower	back	to	raise	upper	body.
Body	off	center,
tipped	to	one
side
Contract	the	muscles	slightly	on	alternate	sides	of	body	to	help	shift	and
balance	body	position;	do	pulling	and	kicking	drills	to	even	out	stroke.
Arms:	The	Heart-Shaped	Pull
Error
Correction
Pull	too	long
Pull	outward	just	to	shoulder	level;	do	progressive-
sculling	drill.
Hands	pointed	upward,	losing	leverage
and	“slipping”	through	the	water
Elbows	should	be	higher	than	hands;	palms	face
outward	for	catch	of	stroke;	do	DPS	and	vertical
treading	drills.
Recovery	of	hands	is	forced;	or	hands
are	flexed	upward	so	that	they	push
water	forward
During	recovery,	hand	position	should	be	natural,	with
fingertips	slightly	downward.	Experiment	to	find	what
feels	best	for	you.
Elbows	bend	outward	during	recovery,
increasing	water	resistance
Keep	elbows	close	to	rib	cage,	forearms	squeezed
together,	as	arms	drive	forward	in	a	streamlined
position.
Arms	move	too	fast	or	too	flat,	thereby
“slipping”	through	the	water
Do	vertical	treading	and	progressive	sculling	drills.
Hesitation	between	pull	and	recovery
Keep	entire	arm	stroke	smooth	and	continuous.	Exhale
with	face	underwater	immediately	after	inhalation.
Legs:	The	Whip	Kick
Error
Correction
Feet	break	surface	of	water	during	recovery
Increase	hip	flexion	slightly	and	lift	head	upward
to	keep	feet	just	below	surface.
Feet	slide	through	the	water	rather	than
catching	water	to	push	it	backward
Flex	ankles	so	that	soles	of	feet	“catch”	water	as
power	phase	of	pull	begins;	do	sit-and-kick
drill.
Toes	turned	inward
Turn	and	flex	feet	outside	of	knees;	do	sit-and-
kick	drill.
Knees	move	outside	hip,	and	legs	are	too	wide
Knees	should	be	parallel	to	each	other	at
approximately	hip	width;	do	sit-and-kick,	wall-
kick	drills.
One	leg	“hooks”	higher	than	the	other;	one
foot	breaks	surface	(This	is	illegal	in
competition.)
Legs	should	move	simultaneously	and	parallel	to
each	other;	practice	wall-kick	drill.
Legs	too	low,	kick	drags
Lift	hips	and	feet	at	end	of	kick	(dolphinlike	hip
action).
Breathing
Error
Correction
Head	lifts	and	lowers	(nods)
independently	of	shoulders
Keep	head	forward	and	moving	in	relation	to	water	level;
head	and	shoulders	should	move	as	one.
Holding	breath	and	keeping	head
underwater
Lift	head	during	every	stroke;	breathe	rhythmically.	Do
coordinated	breathing	drill.
Breaststroke	Coordination
Error
Correction
Breathing	too	early	or	too	late
Head	lifts	for	inhalation	as	arm	pull	finishes	and	leg	kick	begins;
do	progressive	sculling	and	coordinated	breathing	drills.
Lack	of	power	and
smoothness	during
propulsion	phases
Practice	pull-pull-kick	and	pull-kick-kick	drills.
Arms	and	legs	move
continuously,	eliminating
glide
Shorten	pull	to	shoulder	line;	keep	arms	and	legs	still	during
glide.	Begin	with	progressive	sculling	drill.
Components	of	stroke	out	of
sequence
Isolate	and	practice	arm	and	leg	movements	separately	before
combining	them;	remember,	pull	(inhale),	kick,	glide.
B
UTTERFLY	STROKE
T
he	butterfly	can	be	the	most	exciting	and	graceful	stroke	to	swim	and
to	watch:	where	else	can	you	find	such	sinuous,	flowing	movement
combined	with	an	exhilarating	sense	of	power?	Although	the	“fly”	is
usually	considered	the	most	difficult	stroke	to	master,	you	can	actually
learn	it	fairly	easily	by	applying	the	basic	S	pull	used	in	the	crawl	or
freestyle.	There’s	no	denying	that	the	butterfly	is	a	strenuous	stroke,
though—even	well-trained	“fliers”	stick	to	swims	of	a	relatively	short
distance.	(You’ll	notice	that	when	it’s	introduced	in	the	workouts	you
rarely	swim	the	butterfly	continuously	for	more	than	twenty-five	yards
or	meters,	whereas	you	do	many	times	that	distance	for	every	other
stroke.)
The	butterfly	has	much	in	common	with	the	breaststroke,	from	which
it	is	derived,	in	that	both	arms	and	legs	move	simultaneously	and
symmetrically.	But	swimmers	and	coaches	had	long	realized	that	the
resistance	caused	by	the	underwater	arm	recovery	of	the	breaststroke
slowed	the	stroke	down.	In	1933	Henry	Meyer	had	the	idea	of	trying	an
over-the-water	recovery.	The	resulting	hybrid	stroke	was	still	within	the
rules	for	competitive	breaststroke	swimming,	but	a	new	and	superior
stroke	was	born	with	the	substitution	of	the	dolphin	kick	for	the	whip	or
frog	kick.	In	1952	the	“butterfly,”	as	the	new	stroke	was	called,	was
accepted	as	an	official	competitive	stroke,	and	by	1956	it	was	a	part	of
the	Olympics.	Mark	Spitz,	winner	of	seven	Olympic	golds	in	1972,
brought	the	“fly”	into	the	limelight,	as	did	1988/1992	Olympic
Champion	Matt	Biondi	and	1992	Olympic	wonder	Pablo	Morales.
During	its	short	life,	the	butterfly	hasn’t	undergone	quite	as	many
refinements	as	the	other,	older	strokes	have.	Back	in	the	early	days,	the
frog	kick	was	used;	in	fact,	some	people	still	prefer	it,	especially	when
first	learning	the	stroke.	But	because	this	kick	makes	for	a	rather	uneven
overall	stroke,	eventually	swimmers	developed	the	fishtail,	or	dolphin
kick,	which	is	now	required	in	all	but	Masters	competition.	The	new
kick,	used	in	conjunction	with	the	S-pattern	underwater	pull	that	has
done	so	much	for	the	other	strokes,	makes	the	butterfly	very	fast,	and	its
popularity	has	soared.
L
EARNING	THE
	B
UTTERFLY
Yes,	the	butterfly	has	earned	the	reputation	of	being	“the	hard	stroke.”
And	it	is	true	that	many	swimmers	experience	frustration	when	first
learning	it—even	those	who	eventually	learn	it	well	enough	to	do	it	in
competition.	But	there	must	be	some	reason	why	so	many	people	keep
trying	until	they	get	it	right.	And	the	butterfly	isn’t	really	all	that
difficult	once	you’ve	learned	the	basic	mechanics	and	can	relax	and	get
into	the	rhythm	of	it.	If	you	keep	at	it,	the	day	will	come	when	you	find
yourself	doing	the	“fly.”
The	“fly”	requires	a	different	kind	of	stamina	than	the	other	strokes,
which	makes	it	a	superb	cardiovascular	conditioner.	That’s	because
there’s	none	of	the	alternating	motion	of	the	freestyle	or	backstroke,	in
which	one	arm	rests	during	the	recovery	while	the	other	works	during
the	pull	phase.	You	also	need	more	overall	flexibility	for	the	butterfly,
especially	in	the	shoulders,	hips,	ankles,	and	feet,	as	well	as	greater
upper-body	strength.	So	weight	training	and	stretches	(see	“Swimmers’
Shape-ups,”	
this	page
)	are	definite	aids	to	learning	and	practicing	the
“fly.”
The	butterly	shares	with	the	breaststroke	the	simultaneous	underwater
pull.	In	addition,	the	kick,	which	usually	accounts	for	30	percent	of	the
stroke’s	power,	helps	to	set	up	an	undulating,	dolphinlike	motion
through	the	body	that	resembles	in	part	the	downstreaming	used	in	the
breaststroke.	The	butterfly	has	so	much	in	common	with	the
breaststroke,	in	fact,	that	it	may	be	wise	to	master	the	breaststroke	as	a
preliminary	to	learning	the	“fly.”	(And	once	you’ve	mastered	the
butterfly,	you’ll	be	rewarded	with	a	better	breaststroke!)
Another	general	tip	when	training	in	the	butterfly	is	to	stick	to
distances	that	allow	you	to	maintain	a	semblance	of	the	stroke.	When
your	stroke	begins	to	deteriorate,	it’s	a	sure	sign	that	you	should	go	on
to	something	else.
The	butterfly	stroke.
The	catch
.
The	pull	(phase	1)
.
The	pull	(phase	2)
.
The	recovery
.
Body	Position
In	the	butterfly,	as	in	the	breaststroke,	your	body	sets	up	a	wavelike
motion	that	adds	grace	and	efficiency	to	the	stroke.	In	general,	your
body	swims	in	a	streamlined,	prone	position,	with	arms	and	legs
extended	at	the	beginning	of	each	stroke	cycle.	You	should	be	looking
forward	slightly,	with	the	water	about	even	with	your	eyebrows	(except
during	inhalation).	Your	shoulders	should	be	high	above	the	water	and
parallel	to	the	surface.	Hips	are	generally	high	in	the	water.	(Women,	by
the	way,	tend	to	find	this	part	easier	because	of	their	anatomy.)
Arm	Motion
The	arms	move	simultaneously	and	evenly	in	a	mirror	image	of	each
other,	with	each	arm	moving	underwater	in	an	S-shaped	pattern.
Since	the	arms	move	simultaneously,	however,	the	stroke	resembles	an
hourglass	or	keyhole.	Also,	since	there’s	no	side-to-side	body	roll,	the
underwater	pull	is	shallower	and	the	overwater	recovery	is	wider	and
lower.	As	in	the	other	strokes,	keep	your	elbows	higher	than	your	hands
to	get	the	best	leverage.
Practice	the	arm	stroke	on	land,	then	in	shoulder-deep	water	(first	just
standing,	then	walking);	next,	when	the	arm	motion	alone	is
comfortable,	begin	to	work	on	coordinating	it	with	the	breathing.
		
THE	CATCH
Hands	enter	the	water	together,	shoulder	width	apart:	your	elbows	are
up	and	your	thumbs	are	down,	as	in	the	crawl/freestyle.	Slide	your
hands	forward,	outward,	and	downward	at	a	30-to	45-degree	angle	from
the	water’s	surface,	to	a	depth	of	four	to	eight	inches.	This	is	the	“catch,”
during	which	you	should	get	a	good	“hold”	on	the	water.	You	have	only
a	moment	to	do	this,	because	of	the	timing	of	the	kick.
		
THE	PULL
PHASE
	1:	Pull	out,	down,	and	back	with	both	arms	simultaneously,	bending
your	elbows	slightly	and	rotating	your	arms	from	the	shoulders.	End	this
phase	with	your	forearms	vertical	and	palms	facing	back	toward	your
feet,	no	wider	than	shoulder	width	apart.	This	completes	the	top	of	the
keyhole	or	hourglass	shape.
The	keyhole-shaped	pull	for	the	butterfly	stroke
.
PHASE
	2:	This	is	the	acceleration	phase	of	the	pull.	Begin	by	bringing	your
hands	together	under	your	abdomen	so	that	your	elbows	bend	at	about
90	degrees;	then	press	outward	and	back	toward	your	feet,	as	for	the
crawl	stroke,	accelerating	the	movement	begun	in	phase	1.	Continue
pressing	water	directly	backward,	until	your	arms	are	almost	fully
extended	and	your	hands	are	just	past	your	hips.	(This	will	begin	to	raise
your	shoulders	out	of	the	water	and	is	the	time	to	inhale,	as	described
later.)
		
THE	RECOVERY
As	your	hands	emerge	from	the	water,	swing	them	around	to	the	sides
and	front.	The	elbows	are	higher	than	the	hands,	and	the	arms	are
rounded,	with	the	fingertips	skimming	just	above	the	surface.	At	the
start	of	the	recovery,	your	hands	trail	behind,	and	your	elbows	lead	the
swing;	about	halfway,	the	hands	take	over	the	lead	as	the	forearms
extend	in	front	of	you	just	prior	to	the	catch.	During	the	initial	part	of
the	recovery,	your	arms	should	be	relaxed,	but	they	should	move
quickly,	using	the	power	generated	by	your	upper	back	and	shoulders
during	the	acceleration	phase	of	the	pull.	Then	the	momentum	continues
to	carry	your	arms	forward,	to	begin	the	catch	again.	Your	shoulders	are
higher	in	the	water	during	
the	recovery	than	at	any	other	point;	as	the
hands	come	forward,	the	shoulders	return	to	their	lower	position.	This
shoulder	undulation	contributes	to,	and	coordinates	with,	the	wavelike
motion	of	the	hips	and	legs.
Leg	Motion
The	dolphin	kick	accounts	for	about	30	percent	of	the	power	of	the
overall	stroke	and	must	be	carefully	coordinated	with	the	arm	motion,
the	breathing,	and	the	wavelike	body	motion.
The	aim	of	the	dolphin	kick	is	to	push	a	column	of	“still”	water
backward	quickly	and	forcefully.	It’s	a	two-beat	kick,	with	both	legs
moving	up	and	down	together	twice,	during	the	course	of	one	arm	cycle.
It’s	similar	to	the	flutter	kick	except	that	your	knees	and	hips	bend	a	bit
more,	and	of	course,	both	legs	move	in	unison.	Bring	your	hips	up
during	the	downbeat	so	that	your	buttocks	just	break	the	surface,	and
bring	them	down	during	the	upbeat—this	results	in	a	sinuous,
undulating	motion	that	adds	to	your	forward	power	by	getting	your
whole	body,	not	just	your	limbs,	involved	in	the	stroke.
On	the	downbeat	of	the	kick,	the	feet	should	be	pointed	to	help	them
direct	the	water	backward,	not	downward,	and	to	continue	the
undulation	that	began	in	your	hips.	On	the	upbeat,	your	feet	should	just
break	the	surface.	Practice	while	sitting	on	a	chair	on	dry	land,	then
proceed	to	the	kick	drills	described	later.
Breathing
For	maximum	streamlining	and	efficiency,	the	ideal	breathing	pattern	is
to	inhale	on	every	other	stroke	(alternate	breathing).	However,	because
of	the	intense,	explosive	action	of	the	butterfly,	you	may	find	that	this	is
not	enough.	So	establish	and	stay	with	a	breathing	pattern	that	is
comfortable	for	you,	This	might	be	a	breath	on	every	stroke,	or	you
might	alternate	a	single	breath	with	a	double	breath—i.e.,	stroke,	stroke
(breathe);	stroke	(breathe);	stroke,	stroke	(breathe);	and	so	on.
Practice	coordinating	the	breathing	with	the	arm	motion,	first	on	land,
then	while	standing	in	shoulder-deep	water,	and	finally	during	the	drills
that	follow.
Inhale	at	the	end	of	phase	2	of	the	arm	pull,	just	as	the	arms	are
beginning	to	recover	and	your	shoulders	are	at	their	highest.	Extend
your	chin	slightly	forward—just	enough	to	get	your	mouth	out	of	the
water.	As	you	lift,	look	forward	and	take	a	big	bite	of	air.	Then	lower
your	head	
immediately	to	restore	the	streamlined	body	position.	(Some
people	prefer	to	turn	the	head	to	one	side	during	the	inhalation	because
in	this	position	the	“bow	wave”	from	the	head	allows	them	to	get	a
breath	while	keeping	the	cheek	closer	to	the	water.)
Coordinating	Arms,	Legs,	and	Breathing
The	common	kick	cycle	is	two	beats	per	arm	stroke.	The	downbeat	of	the
first	kick	begins	when	your	hands	are	shoulder	width	apart	and	have
entered	the	water	for	the	catch.	This	kick	is	completed	during	phase	1	of
the	pull	and	is	followed	by	a	quick	upbeat	when	your	arms	are	between
phase	1	and	phase	2,	at	the	narrowest	point	of	the	keyhole	or	S.	Then
the	downbeat	of	the	second	kick	synchronizes	with	the	explosive	finish
of	phase	2	of	the	arm	motion.	There	is	a	second,	relaxed	upbeat	kick
during	the	arm	recovery	of	the	stroke.
To	coordinate	breathing,	begin	inhaling	at	the	completion	of	your	arm
stroke,	so	that	your	mouth	clears	the	water	as	your	arms	recover.
To	coordinate	your	entire	stroke,	swim	in	the	following	sequence:
catch	and	kick,	pull	and	kick,	inhale	and	recover.	Most	simply,	this
coordination	can	be	thought	of	as	a	downbeat	kick	at	the	beginning	and
at	the	end	of	each	arm	stroke,	with	inhalation	taking	place	at	the	start	of
the	recovery.	Use	the	drills	that	follow	to	help	you	get	the	timing.
C
HECKLIST	FOR	A
	B
ETTER
	B
UTTERFLY
	S
TROKE
Hands	enter	thumb	first	at	a	30-to	45-degree	angle	from	the
water	surface;	it’s	essential	to	“grab	hold”	of	the	water
immediately	at	the	“catch”	of	the	stroke.
At	entry,	hands	should	be	approximately	shoulder	width	apart;
elbows	are	bent	and	higher	than	the	hands.
During	phase	1	of	the	pull,	your	hands	should	pull	shoulder
width	apart,	outward	and	downward.	The	phase	finishes	with
your	forearms	in	a	vertical	position.
During	phase	2,	accelerate	the	pull,	pushing	water	backward
toward	your	feet.
The	ideal	breathing	pattern	is	one	inhalation	every	other	arm
stroke,	but	adapt	this	to	your	own	needs;	inhale	when	your
shoulders	are	highest,	at	the	end	of	phase	2	of	the	pull;	raise
your	head	just	high	enough	for	your	mouth	to	clear	the	water.
Economize	on	the	recovery—your	arms	should	barely	clear	the
water.	Keep	the	arms	relaxed,	elbows	turned	slightly	upward.
The	ideal	kick	cycle	is	two	beats	per	arm	stroke.	The	first	kick
occurs	during	the	“catch”	and	phase	1	of	the	arm	pull;	the
second	kick	occurs	during	phase	2	of	the	arm	pull.
Get	a	whipping	action	by	pointing	your	toes	during	the
downbeat.	Relax	your	feet	during	the	upbeat	of	the	kick.
To	coordinate	the	stroke	elements,	remember:	catch	and	kick,
pull	and	kick,	inhale	and	recover.
B
UTTERFLY
	D
RILLS
:	A
RMS

These	drills	may	be	done	with	or	without	pull-buoys	for	support.	To
build	upper	body	strength	during	the	arm	drills,	the	more	advanced
swimmer	can	use	resistance	devices	such	as	an	inner	tube,	or	“donut,”
around	the	ankles,	or	pull-buoys	between	the	ankles.
1.	Progressive	Pulling:
	To	first	learn	the	keyhole	arm	pull	without
becoming	fatigued	by	the	overwater	recovery;	to	gradually	develop
strength	and	flexibility	in	order	to	do	the	overwater	recovery.
Practice	the	butterfly	arm	pull,	but	recover	arms	under	the	water,	as
in	the	breaststroke.	See	how	far	you	can	glide	after	each	pull—the
greater	the	distance,	the	more	efficient	your	stroke.
When	this	drill	is	comfortable	and	your	pull	is	strong,	switch	to	the
overwater	recovery,	breathing	whenever	necessary;	practice	first	while
standing,	then	while	walking,	in	shoulder-deep	water.
Do	two	butterfly	pulls	with	the	overwater	recovery;	then
complete	the	lap	using	the	underwater	recovery.	Continue
practicing,	trying	to	use	the	overwater	recovery	for	longer	and
longer	distances.
Another	variation	is	to	alternate	four	pulls	with	overwater
recovery	and	four	pulls	with	underwater	recovery.
2.	Free-fly	Pull:
	To	keep	pull	balanced	on	both	sides;	to	practice
coordination	of	stroke	and	breathing;	to	experiment	with	your	own
breathing	pattern	and	stroke	coordination.
Alternate	keyhole	butterfly	pull	with	catch-up	freestyle	pull	(see	
this
page
).
Variation	1—two	butterfly	pulls
one	catch-up	freestyle	pull—
right
	arm
two	butterfly	pulls
one	catch-up	freestyle	pull—
left
	arm
and	so	on
Variation	2—one	butterfly	pull
one	catch-up	freestyle	cycle	(
right	and	left
)
one	butterfly	pull
Make	up	your	own	variations.	But	begin	with	one	pattern	and
stay	with	it	throughout	the	drill.
Throughout	the	drill,	as	always,	inhale	during	the	catch-up	freestyle
with	your	head	turned	to	the	side.	During	the	butterfly,	you	may	inhale
with	your	face	either	forward	or	to	the	side,	whichever	is	more
comfortable	(the	forward	breathing	style	is	more	common).
3.	DPS
	
(
Distance	Per	Stroke
)
:
	To	develop	maximum	stroke	efficiency
for	the	advanced	butterflier.
Count	the	number	of	pulls	you	need	per	lap,	trying	to	decrease	the
number	each	time	by	streamlining	your	stroke.	To	do	this,	pause
momentarily	at	the	catch	position	and	take	advantage	of	the	glide.
(Remember,	though,	this	is	a	
drill;
	while	swimming	the	actual	stroke,	the
catch	position	is	held	for	a	shorter	time,	keeping	the	glide	to	a
minimum.)
B
UTTERFLY
	D
RILLS
:	L
EGS
Some	of	these	drills	may	be	done	with	a	kickboard	or	other	flotation
device.	They	may	be	done	with	or	without	fins.	Fins	are	especially
recommended	for	practicing	the	dolphin	kick,	because	they	help	you	get
a	feel	for	the	whipping	motion	that	you’re	trying	for.	Fins	also	give	you
added	propulsion,	and	they	help	you	to	build	up	your	leg	strength	by
increasing	the	resistance	of	the	water.
1.	Stand	and	Kick:
	To	get	a	feel	for	the	wavelike	body	motion
initiated	in	the	lower-back	muscles.
While	standing	on	dry	land	or	in	chest-deep	water,	do	a	half	knee
bend.	From	this	bent-knee	position,	tilt	your	hips	out	to	the	back;	then
press	your	hips	and	lower	back	forward	forcefully	as	you	straighten	and
stand.	Also	practice	this	kick	in	deep	water,	with	your	body	in	vertical
position.
2.	Sit	and	Kick:
	To	help	you	learn	the	bent-knee	action	of	the	dolphin
kick.
Sit	on	the	edge	of	the	pool,	with	hips	forward.	Bend	your	knees	so	that
your	heels	drop	and	touch	the	wall	beneath	the	surface	of	the	water.
From	this	position,	extend	your	legs	again,	feeling	the	water	roll	off	the
front	of	your	foot.
3.	Wall	Kick:
	To	get	the	feel	of	doing	the	kick	in	the	water;	to	help
you	get	your	lower	back	arched	slightly	while	practicing	the	kick.
In	supine	position:
	Hold	on	to	the	wall	with	your	back	against	it,	your
head	resting	on	the	trough	and	your	arms	extended	out	to	either	side.
Practice	the	dolphin	kick,	watching	your	form	carefully	to	make	sure
that	your	legs	just	break	the	water	surface.
In	prone	position:
	Facing	the	wall,	pull	on	the	gutter	with	one	hand	and
press	the	other	hand	flat	against	the	wall,	fingers	pointed	downward,
one	to	two	feet	below	the	surface.	Practice	the	dolphin	kick,	including
the	undulation	that	travels	from	the	lower	back	and	hips	toward	the	legs
and	feet.
4.	Free	Kick:
	To	help	streamline	your	body	during	the	stroke;	to
develop	good	kicking	form;	to	increase	the	strength	of	your	kick.
Floating	in	a	prone	position,	dolphin	kick	with	your	arms	extended
overhead	so	that	they	cover	your	ears.	To	inhale,	scull	momentarily	and
lift	your	head	out	of	the	water	(either	straight	forward	or	to	one	side).
Or,	if	you	like,	keep	your	arms	at	your	sides	so	that	you	can	concentrate
on	the	kick.	If	you	use	a	kickboard,	try	the	two-beat	kick.	You	can	either
keep	your	head	up	and	breathe	normally	or	coordinate	the	inhalation
with	every	other	kick.	You	may	also	practice	this	drill	in	a	supine
position.
5.	Side	Kick:
	To	help	develop	the	wavelike	motion	of	the	hips	and	legs
as	well	as	the	body	undulation	during	the	dolphin	kick.
Dolphin	kick	while	on	your	side,	your	lower	hand	extended	overhead,
holding	a	kickboard,	and	your	top	arm	resting	on	your	thigh.	To	inhale,
scull	or	pull	underwater	with	the	extended	arm	and	lift	your	head
slightly	to	get	a	breath;	if	you	use	a	kickboard,	coordinate	the	breathing
and	kicking	as	in	the	free-kick	drill.	Alternate	sides.
6.	Kick	and	Roll:
	To	practice	the	wavelike	motion	of	the	kick;	to
practice	coordinating	the	arm	and	leg	motions.
Do	the	side-kick	drill,	changing	positions	after	every	ten	kick	cycles.
Start	on	one	side;	then	rotate	your	body	a	quarter	turn	to	kick	in	the
prone	position;	then	rotate	another	quarter	turn	to	kick	on	your	other
side;	then	rotate	to	the	prone	position	again,	and	so	on.
7.	Body	Wave:
	To	get	the	feel	of	the	undulating	body	motion	that
comes	from	the	dolphin	kick;	to	help	develop	breath	control.
Pushing	off	from	the	pool	bottom,	your	arms	extended	overhead,	dive
over	the	surface	of	the	water,	arching	your	back	and	bringing	your	body
into	a	“hole”	created	by	your	arms	(like	a	porpoise	or	dolphin).
Submerge	and	touch	your	hands	to	the	bottom,	then	draw	your	knees	up
to	your	chest	in	a	tuck	position.	Plant	your	feet	firmly	on	the	bottom	and
spring	up,	arms	extended	overhead,	to	repeat	the	drill.
Under-under	Variation:	Dolphin	kick	underwater,	arms	either
extended	in	front	of	you	or	down	at	your	sides,	for	as	long	as
you	can.
Under-over	Variation:	Do	this	drill	in	deep	water	without
touching	bottom.	Dolphin	kick	underwater	for	as	long	as	you
can,	then	resurface,	inhale,	and	do	four	kick	cycles	on	the
surface.	This	drill	can	be	done	in	pyramid	pattern	(i.e.,	two	kick
cycles	above,	two	below;	four	above,	four	below;	six	above,	six
below;	four	above,	four	below;	two	above,	two	below;	etc.)
B
UTTERFLY
	D
RILLS
:	C
OORDINATION
1.	Single-arm	Pull	with	Single-beat	Kick:
	To	develop	coordination	of
arms,	legs,	and	breathing.
Do	one	dolphin	kick	with	each	arm	stroke.	Begin	by	inhaling	on	every
stroke,	then	work	up	to	alternate	breathing.
2.	Two-beat	Kick	with	Delayed	Pull:
	To	further	coordinate	the	double-
beat	dolphin	kick	with	the	butterfly	pull.
Do	one	butterfly	pull	with	one	dolphin	kick;	keep	your	arms	extended
forward	in	the	catch	position	as	you	complete	the	second	kick.	Make	the
glide	gradually	shorter	at	the	start	of	each	stroke.
3.	Progressive	Pull	with	Two-beat	Kick:
	To	isolate	coordination	of	the
two-beat	kick	at	the	beginning	and	end	of	the	pull.
Practice	the	butterfly	pull,	but	recover	your	arms	underwater,	and	kick
at	the	beginning	and	at	the	end	of	the	pull.	See	how	far	you	can	glide
after	each	pull-and-kick	cycle	before	recovering	your	arms	underwater.
4.	Butterfly	Pull	with	Breaststroke
	
(
Whip
)
	
Kick:
	To	get	a	feel	for	the
overall	stroke;	a	preliminary	step	in	coordinating	arms,	legs,	and
breathing.
Do	one	butterfly	pull	for	each	whip	kick.	Begin	the	kick	as	the	hands
enter	the	water	for	the	catch	of	the	stroke.	When	both	pull	and	kick	have
finished,	glide	a	moment	before	beginning	the	next	cycle.
This	stroke	variation	can	be	used	either	as	a	drill	or	as	a	stroke	itself.
Some	people	also	find	that	this	variation	helps	them	to	get	the	flexibility
needed	for	the	dolphin	kick.	So	before	skipping	over	the	butterfly	stroke,
try	this	variation—you	might	like	it,	especially	since	the	glide	gives	you
a	momentary	rest	between	stroke	cycles.
5.	Double-arm	Backstroke	with	Whip	or	Dolphin	Kick
	
(
Double-arm	or
Inverted	Butterfly
)
:
	To	develop	the	flexibility	needed	for	the	overwater
arm	recovery;	to	practice	phase	2	(acceleration	phase)	of	the	pull	while
breathing	normally.
On	your	back,	do	the	double-arm	or	inverted	butterfly	arm	motion
with	either	a	single	whip	kick	or	a	single-or	double-beat	dolphin	kick.
B
UTTERFLY
	D
RILLS
:	B
REATHING
Since	breathing	for	this	stroke	coordinates	naturally	with	the	arm
motion,	as	you	practice	the	pulling	drills	you’ll	be	practicing	breathing
as	well.	As	your	pull	and	kick	become	stronger,	your	head	will	lift	high
enough	out	of	the	water	for	inhalation.	To	help	increase	your	lung
capacity	and	help	you	get	a	“second	wind,”	the	body-wave	drill	(
this
page
)	and	its	variations	are	also	especially	useful.
1.	Pull-and-breathe	Drill:
	To	develop	an	inhalation	pattern	with	the
butterfly	arm	motion.
Begin	by	standing	in	place	and	coordinating	a	single	breath	with	the
pull;	then	walk	forward	while	adding	the	alternate	breathing	pattern.
Concentrate	on	exhaling	during	phase	2	of	the	pull	and	inhaling
immediately	after	the	arm	recovery	begins.
2.	Freestyle	Pull	and	Dolphin	Kick:
	To	develop	an	alternate	breathing
pattern	and	a	sense	of	timing.
Do	the	freestyle	arm	motion,	dolphin	kicking	as	you	execute	phase	2
of	each	pull.	Inhale	to	the	side,	as	in	the	freestyle,	as	you	begin	the
recovery	of	every	other	arm	cycle	(every	four	strokes).
C
OMMON
	B
UTTERFLY
	E
RRORS	AND
	W
HAT	TO
	D
O
	A
BOUT
	T
HEM
Body	Position	and	Breathing
Error
Correction
Head	stays	up	too	long	during
inhalation
Return	head	to	downward	position	immediately	after
inhalation.
Early	or	late	inhalation
Lift	head	to	inhale	toward	end	of	phase	2	of	pull,	just	prior	to
Early	or	late	inhalation
Lift	head	to	inhale	toward	end	of	phase	2	of	pull,	just	prior	to
recovery.
Head	lifts	too	high	during
inhalation
Lift	your	head	only	high	enough	for	your	mouth	to	clear	the
water.	Keep	your	chin	forward.
Holding	breath;	or	sporadic
breathing	pattern
Be	certain	to	inhale	and	exhale	fully	and	continuously.	Do
freestyle	pull	and	dophinkick	drill.
Stiff	body	position
Add	undulating	body-wave	action	to	stroke;	do	body-wave	drill.
Arms:	Keyhole	Pull
Error
Correction
Arms	pull	straight	back,	“slipping”
through	the	water
Isolate	two-stage	keyhole	arm	motion,	always	pressing
“still”	water	back;	do	DPS	drill.
Arms	cross,	or	enter	too	far	to	sides,
during	catch
Arms	should	enter	water	shoulder	width	apart.
Arms	are	too	low	during	recovery
Lift	elbows	to	clear	arms	from	water	during	recovery;	do
progressive-pull	drill.
Hands	splash	excessively	during
entry
Slice	hands	into	water	at	30-to	45-degree	angle,	thumbs
downward.
Arms	aren’t	moving	together	during
recovery
Move	arms	simultaneously	throughout	pull;	do	free-fly	pull
drill.
Legs:	The	Dolphin	Kick
Error
Correction
Body	wave	is	absent	and	body
remains	stiff	during	the	two-beat
kick
Practice	body-wave	action	in	the	side-kick	drill;	do	body-
wave	drill.
Knees	bend	without	body-wave
action
On	the	downbeat	of	each	kick,	lift	your	hips;	on	the	upbeat
lower	them;	do	stand-and-kick,	wall-kick	drills.
Legs	lift	above	water;	knees	bend
Just	break	water’s	surface;	extend	legs	backward;	do	free-
Legs	lift	above	water;	knees	bend
too	much
Just	break	water’s	surface;	extend	legs	backward;	do	free-
kick	drill.
Legs	move	water	up	and	down
rather	than	backward
Try	to	feel	the	water	slide	backward	off	your	feet	as	you
kick;	practice	with	fins	to	get	a	feel	for	this	whipping
action.
Coordination
Error
Correction
Unintentional	“flutterfly”	stroke	done	in	several
possible	variations	(i.e.,	butterfly	pull	with
flutter	kick,	freestyle	pull	with	fly	kick)
Isolate	and	practice	components:	move	both
arms	together	and	both	legs	together.
Too	long	a	glide	or	a	“dead”	spot	in	stroke	after
hands	enter	for	“catch”
Begin	downbeat	of	first	kick	as	you	start	the
pull,	when	momentum	of	the	stroke	begins
to	slow.
First	kick	occurs	too	early	or	late
Downward	beat	of	first	kick	begins	during
catch	of	pull;	do	progressive	pull	with	two-
beat-kick	drill.
Second	kick	occurs	too	early	or	late
Downbeat	of	second	kick	begins	with	phase	2
of	pull;	do	progressive	pull	with	two-beat-
kick	drill.
Coordination	of	stroke	components	out	of
sequence
Isolate	and	practice	each	part	separately.
Then	combine	entire	stroke	to:	pull	and
kick,	catch	and	kick,	inhale,	and	recover.
S
IDESTROKE
T
he	sidestroke,	which	grew	out	of	the	breaststroke	and	the	elementary
backstroke,	was	used	in	competition	during	the	nineteenth	century.
Although	it’s	no	longer	a	competitive	stroke,	the	sidestroke	is
nevertheless	a	handy	skill	to	have.	It’s	easy	to	learn	and	master,	and	the
long	glide	and	underwater	recovery	make	for	a	graceful,	restful	stroke
useful	for	long,	relaxing	swims.	It	is	one	of	the	fundamental	transitional
strokes	for	synchronized	swimmers.	This	is	the	preferred	stroke	of	many
recreational	swimmers,	especially	in	open	water,	because	the	face
remains	above	the	surface	at	all	times,	making	breathing	easy	and
visibility	constant.	For	these	reasons,	the	sidestroke	is	also	widely	used
in	water	rescues.
Since	the	sidestroke	is	the	least	strenuous	of	the	strokes,	it	isn’t	quite
as	effective	as	the	other	four	in	improving	your	physical	fitness.
However,	the	sidestroke	is	ideal	for	varying	the	pace	of	your	workouts,
or	when	you	aren’t	up	for	so	strenuous	a	swim.
L
EARNING	THE
	S
IDESTROKE
The	sidestroke	differs	from	all	the	other	strokes	in	several	ways.	First,
you	do	it	on	your	side.	(Therefore,	we’ll	be	referring	to	the	top	and
bottom	arm	or	leg	instead	of	to	the	right	or	left.)	Second,	it	is
asymmetrical—neither	leg	and	neither	arm	does	exactly	the	same	thing,
either	simultaneously	or	alternately.	The	stroke	incorporates	elements
from	the	elementary	backstroke	(see	
this	page
)	and	the	breaststroke	(see
this	page
),	so	if	
you	know	either	of	these	strokes,	you	will	recognize
several	similarities,	including	the	aforementioned	prolonged	glide,	the
whiplike	leg	action,	and	several	elements	of	the	arm	movement.	When
learning	or	reviewing	the	sidestroke,	try	to	do	it	on	both	sides.	One	will
probably	feel	more	natural,	but	with	practice,	both	sides	can	become
comfortable.	(Swimming	the	same	distance	on	each	side	results	in	more
balanced	muscle	development	and	body	conditioning.)	Another	way	the
sidestroke	is	unique	is	that	there	are	so	many	variations.	There	are	two
types	of	arm	motions	and	two	types	of	leg	motions,	which	may	be
combined	in	four	different	ways.	When	you	also	consider	that	you	can
do	these	four	variations	on	either	your	right	or	your	left	side,	that	adds
up	to	a	total	of	eight	variations.	So	try	them	all!	You	can	use	several	in
the	same	workout,	or	even	in	the	same	lap,	to	add	variety	to	your	swims.
Body	Position
Your	body	is	in	a	horizontal	position	on	one	side.	One	cheek	rests	on	the
water,	and	your	neck	is	curved	up	slightly—just	enough	for	your	mouth
to	clear	the	surface.	You	may	look	upward	and	forward,	out	to	the	side,
or	slightly	down	and	back	toward	the	direction	from	which	you	are
swimming	(the	last	is	most	common).
During	the	glide,	your	body	is	in	a	straight,	stretched,	steamlined
position.	Your	lower	arm	is	extended	straight	ahead,	covering	your
lower	ear	and	continuing	the	line	of	your	body;	the	palm	is	down.	Your
upper	arm	is	extended	and	resting	along	your	upper	side,	palm	on	your
thigh.	Your	legs	are	fully	extended	and	together,	one	on	top	of	the	other,
in	line	with	your	body;	your	toes	are	slightly	pointed.
Arm	Motion
In	both	types	of	arm	motion,	the	functions	of	the	arm	alternate:	while
the	bottom	arm	is	pulling,	the	top	arm	is	recovering,	and	vice	versa.	The
regular	arm	motion,	in	which	both	arms	pull	and	recover	underwater,	is
most	common	and	so	is	described	first.	The	action	in	both	variations	is
similar	to	reaching	overhead	to	pick	an	apple	from	a	tree,	then
transferring	the	apple	to	your	other	hand,	and	throwing	it	down	toward
your	feet	as	your	“picking”	arm	reaches	for	the	next	apple.	Unlike	other
strokes,	the	sidestroke	is	best	understood	as	a	
two-phased	stroke
	with	a
glide	after	each	phase,	rather	than	as	a	two-phased	arm	pull.	(Each	arm
motion,	though,	still	has	a	catch,	a	pull,	and	a	recovery.)	
The
sidestroke.
The	glide
.
Phase	1.	The	bottom	arm	pulls	as	the	top	arm	recovers
.
Arms	meet	at	chest	level
.

Phase	2.	Top	arm	pulls	as	bottom	arm	recovers
.
The	glide
.
Practice	while	standing	on	dry	land	first.	Then	progress	to	shoulder-
deep	water,	first	standing,	then	walking	sideways,	with	the	bottom	arm
extended	underwater	in	the	direction	in	which	you	are	moving.
Bottom	Arm
	(extended	overhead	in	the	glide	position):	To	begin	the
catch,	slide	your	hand	four	to	eight	inches	under	the	surface	to	get	a
good	hold	on	the	water.	To	begin	the	pull	(phase	1),	bend	your	elbow
and	begin	to	push	water	straight	back	with	your	palm	and	inner
forearm,	keeping	the	elbow	higher	than	the	hand.	When	your	hand	and
arm	have	reached	a	point	just	past	the	shoulder	line,	accelerate	the
movement	and	continue	to	press	water	back	down	toward	your	feet.	The
pull	for	this	arm	stops	at	chest	level,	and	your	elbow	stays	close	to	your
body	the	whole	time.
To	begin	the	underwater	recovery	(phase	2),	pull	your	elbow	in	closer
to	your	chest,	and	rotate	your	forearm	so	that	the	thumb	leads	the
movement	back	toward	your	shoulder.	Keep	your	arm	as	close	to	your
body	as	possible	in	order	to	minimize	resistance.	When	your	forearm	is
as	parallel	to	your	torso	as	possible,	extend	your	arm	forward	and
overhead	back	to	the	starting	position.	Hold	this	extended	position	for
the	glide	phase	of	the	stroke.
Top	Arm:
	While	your	bottom	arm	is	pulling,	your	top	arm	(resting
along	your	upper	side,	palm	on	thigh)	does	an	underwater	recovery
(phase	1).	Slide	your	hand,	thumb	leading,	up	toward	your	shoulder;	it
meets	and	crosses	your	lower	hand,	which	is	just	completing	its	pull,	at
approximately	chest	level.	To	begin	the	catch	with	the	top	arm,	rotate
your	forearm	so	that	the	palm	faces	your	feet.	For	the	pull	(phase	2),
simply	press	water	directly	backward	toward	your	feet,	using	your	palm
and	the	inside	of	your	forearm	and	making	sure	that	your	elbow	is
higher	than	your	hand.	When	your	arm	is	completely	extended,	place	it
on	your	thigh	and	hold	this	position	for	the	glide.	(At	this	point,	your
bottom	arm	has	recovered	and	is	extended	overhead.)	
Overarm
Variation:
	This	is	a	more	efficient	variation	in	which	the	top	arm
recovers	
over
	the	water,	similar	to	the	crawl-stroke	recovery.	From	its
extended	position	on	the	thigh	(glide),	raise	your	top	arm	above	the
surface	(elbow	high),	then	slide	your	hand	into	the	water	at	a	30-to	45-
degree	angle	in	front	of	your	face	(catch).	As	your	arm	extends	slightly,
it’s	now	ready	to	pull	(phase	2)	as	usual.
The	overarm	variation	of	the	sidestroke
.
Leg	Motion
The	leg	motion	used	in	the	sidestroke	is	called	the	scissors	kick	because
the	legs	separate,	then	come	together,	cutting	through	the	water	much
like	the	blades	of	a	pair	of	scissors.	As	with	the	arm	stroke,	there	are	two
variations.	The	first	described	is	the	regular	scissors	kick,	which	is	the
most	common.
Practice	while	sitting	down,	bracing	yourself	with	your	hands,	leaning
to	first	one	and	then	the	other	side.	Or,	if	you	want,	practice	while	lying
on	your	side	on	the	floor.
Begin	in	the	glide	or	extended	position,	with	your	legs	together	and
the	toes	pointed.	Recover	your	knees	by	bringing	them	toward	your
chest,	your	hips	flexing	back	slightly	(phase	1).	Then	separate	and
straighten	your	legs,	the	top	one	moving	forward	and	the	bottom	one
moving	backward.	Separate	them	as	much	as	possible,	forming	a	wide	V.
Your	top	foot	should	be	flexed	and	the	lower	one	extended	with	the	toes
pointed	behind	you	(catch	of	the	feet).	Next	squeeze	your	legs	together
to	push	water	backward	(phase	2).	As	your	legs	meet,	point	your	top
foot—the	alternate	flexion	and	extension	resembles	pedaling	a	bicycle.
Hold	this	position,	legs	together,	body	extended	and	streamlined,	for	the
restful	glide.	Make	sure	that	your	legs	move	parallel	to	and	stay	under
the	surface	of	the	water	during	the	entire	kick,	and	try	to	open	each	leg
the	same	distance	from	the	midline	of	your	body.
Inverted	Scissors	Kick	Variation:
	This	is	done	in	the	same	manner	as
the	regular	kick,	except	that	the	bottom	leg	moves	forward	and	the	top
leg	moves	back.	This	kick	is	often	used	in	water	rescue	carries	for	greater
mobility	and	comfort	for	both	the	rescuer	and	victim.
Breathing
Your	breathing	should	be	regular	and	continuous.	Inhale	during	phase	1
as	your	bottom	arm	pulls	and	your	top	arm	and	your	legs	recover.	Begin
exhaling	during	phase	2	as	your	lower	arm	recovers,	your	legs	snap
together,	and	your	top	arm	pulls;	continue	to	exhale	during	the	glide.
Coordinating	the	Arms	and	Legs
Remember,	this	stroke	can	be	simplified	into	two	phases.	Think	of	phase
1	as	ending	in	a	tight	contraction,	as	everything	in	your	body	bends	and
comes	together	at	once	at	your	midpoint.	Think	of	phase	2	as	a	return	to
a	stretch	as	everything	straightens	and	extends	to	its	fullest;	hold	this	for
the	
glide
.	Everything	begins	to	happen	at	once,	but	imagine	the	bottom
arm	as	the	crank	that	starts	the	action.
PHASE
	1:	From	the	glide	position,	your	bottom	arm	bends	and	
pulls
	down
toward	your	chest	to	initiate	this	phase,	as	your	top	arm	and	your	legs
bend.	This	phase	ends	when	your	hands	and	knees	meet	at	chest	level.
(It	helps	if	you	remember	that	the	hand	of	your	top	arm	moves	together
with	your	top	leg.)	
PHASE
	2:	As	your	bottom	arm	extends	to	
recover
,	your
top	arm	
pulls
	while	your	legs	straighten	and	squeeze	together.	Arms	and
legs	remain	extended	for	a	moment	for	the	
glide
,	during	which	you	can
rest	and	allow	the	momentum	of	the	stroke	to	propel	you	through	the
water.	When	the	momentum	begins	to	slow,	it’s	time	to	begin	the	stroke
cycle	again.
C
HECKLIST	FOR	A
	B
ETTER
	S
IDESTROKE
Remember	to	keep	your	body	stretched	and	streamlined.	Keep
your	top	shoulder	and	hip	toward	the	ceiling	and	your	body
perpendicular	to	the	surface	of	the	water.
Keep	the	arm	stroke	in	a	vertical	plane;	avoid	moving	your
arms	too	far	out	in	front	or	too	far	behind	you.
For	greatest	streamlining,	make	sure	that	the	top	arm	stays
close	to	your	body	during	the	recovery.
Legs	should	bend	toward	the	chest,	extend	smoothly	outward,
then	snap	together	quickly;	hold	for	the	glide.
Keep	your	legs	close	to	the	surface	of	the	water	but	don’t	break
the	surface.
As	your	front	leg	bends,	flex	that	foot;	then	point	it	during	the
snap	to	get	the	foot	to	contribute	to	forward	propulsion	and
streamlining.	Try	to	keep	the	motion	fluid,	as	though	you	were
pedaling	a	bicycle.
Breathe	continuously	and	rhythmically;	time	your	inhalation	to
coincide	with	the	pull	of	the	lower	arm	(and	the	recovery	of	the
top	arm	and	the	bending	of	the	legs).	Exhale	during	the
recovery	of	the	bottom	arm	(and	the	pull	of	the	top	arm	and	the
straightening	of	the	legs).	Continue	to	exhale	during	the	glide.
Between	phases	1	and	2,	all	four	limbs	come	together	at	mid-
body.	Then	all	four	extend	for	the	glide.	Hold	this	glide	until
the	momentum	begins	to	fade.
Remember,	begin	and	end	stroke	in	the	extended	glide	position.
Here’s	the	sequence:	phase	1,	tuck;	phase	2,	straighten	and
glide.
S
IDESTROKE
	D
RILLS:
	A
RMS
Unless	you’re	very	buoyant,	you’ll	need	a	flotation	device	to	help
support	your	body	during	these	drills.
1.	One-arm	Pull:
	To	practice	each	arm	motion	separately,	and	thereby
to	acquire	a	feel	for	the	two-phase	stroke.
To	practice	the	top	arm	motion,	hold	a	kickboard	in	front	of	you	with
your	bottom	arm;	your	arm	is	straight,	with	your	hand	gripping	the	front
of	the	board,	and	the	back	end	of	the	board	is	braced	with	or	near	your
armpit.	Float	on	your	side,	practicing	the	pull	and	the	recovery	of	the
regular	and/or	overarm	sidestroke	with	your	top	arm.
To	practice	the	bottom	arm	motion,	hold	on	to	the	kickboard	with
your	top	hand	and	place	it	on	your	top	hip.
Pull	one	lap	of	the	regular	sidestroke	with	the	top	arm;	then,	on
the	same	side,	pull	one	lap	of	the	regular	sidestroke	with	the
bottom	arm.
Repeat,	swimming	on	your	opposite	side.
Repeat	the	drill,	using	the	overarm	sidestroke,	first	on	one	side,
then	on	the	other.	Sidestroke	for	one	lap,	alternating	four
strokes	
of	the	regular	sidestroke	with	four	of	the	overarm
sidestroke.	Repeat	on	the	opposite	side.
2.	Stroke	and	Roll:
	To	use	the	elementary-backstroke	arm	motion	(see
this	page
)	to	lead	up	to	the	sidestroke	pull.
In	a	supine	position,	do	the	elementary-backstroke	arm	motion	for
four	strokes;	when	you’re	in	the	glide	of	the	fourth	stroke,	with	your
arms	at	your	sides,	press	one	shoulder	down	toward	the	pool	bottom	and
raise	your	bottom	arm	overhead	(this	is	a	90-degree	or	quarter	turn).	Do
the	sidestroke	(regular	or	overarm)	on	this	side	for	four	strokes.	Then
return	to	the	supine	position	and	do	four	more	elementary	backstroke
pulls;	rotate	a	quarter	turn	onto	your	other	side	and	practice	the
sidestroke	arm	motion	again.	Repeat	until	comfortable.
3.	Two-arm	Pull:
	To	isolate	and	practice	the	sidestroke	arm	motions.
Using	a	flotation	device	such	as	a	pull-buoy,	practice	the	regular	or
overarm	sidestroke	pull,	using	both	arms	together.
Pull	one	lap	on	one	side	using	the	regular	arm	stroke;	pull	the
next	lap	on	the	other	side	using	the	regular	arm	stroke.
Pull	one	lap	on	one	side	using	the	overarm	pull;	pull	the	next
lap	on	the	other	side	using	the	overarm	pull.
Pull	for	one	lap,	alternating	four	regular	pulls	with	four
overarm	pulls.
S
IDESTROKE
	D
RILLS
:	L
EGS
You	may	need	a	flotation	device	to	help	support	you	during	some	of
these	kicking	drills.
1.	Sit-and-Kick	Progression:
	To	use	the	supine	whip	kick	(used	in	the
elementary	backstroke;	see	
this	page
)	to	lead	up	to	the	regular	or
inverted	scissors	kick.
Begin	by	sitting	on	a	bench	or	the	edge	of	the	pool	deck;	review	the
supine	whip	kick.	Then	lie	down	on	your	side	and	practice	either	the
regular	or	the	inverted	scissors	kick.	Rotate	back	to	a	sitting	position	to
practice	the	whip	kick	again;	then	turn	onto	your	other	side	to	practice
the	scissors	kick	once	more.
2.	Wall	Kick:
	To	get	a	feel	for	the	scissors	kick	in	the	water.
Use	the	bracket	position	(see	
this	page
)	to	float	on	your	side.	Practice
the	regular	scissors	or	the	inverted	scissors	kick,	making	sure	that	your
legs	don’t	break	the	surface.	Then	turn	around	and	practice	on	the	other
side.
3.	Free	Kick:
	To	practice	the	regular	or	the	inverted	scissors	kick
while	in	proper	swimming	position;	to	develop	leg	power.
Use	a	kickboard	(as	described	in	arm	drills)	if	necessary.
Using	the	regular	scissors	kick,	kick	one	lap	on	one	side,	the
next	lap	on	the	other	side.
Using	the	inverted	scissors	kick,	kick	one	lap	on	one	side,	the
next	lap	on	the	other	side.
Kick	one	lap,	alternating	four	regular	with	four	inverted	scissors
kicks.
4.	Kick	and	Roll:
	To	use	the	supine	whip	kick	(see	the	elementary
backstroke,	
this	page
),	lead	up	to	the	scissors	kick.
This	is	the	same	idea	as	the	stroke-and-roll	drill	(
this	page
)	except	that
instead	of	alternating	the	elementary	backstroke	pull	and	the	sidestroke
pull,	you	alternate	four	supine	whip	kicks	with	four	scissors	kicks.	If
necessary,	use	a	kickboard	(as	described	in	the	arm	drills)	or	small
sculling	motions	to	support	your	upper	body.
5.	DPK
	
(
Distance	Per	Kick
)
:
	To	measure	the	efficiency	of	your	scissors
kick.
Kick	one	lap,	counting	the	number	of	kicks	you	need.	Then	try	to
lower	the	number	of	kicks	(of	same	kind)	on	each	consecutive	lap.
S
IDESTROKE
	D
RILLS
:	C
OORDINATION
1.	Bend	and	Straighten:
	To	coordinate	simultaneous	movements	of	arms
and	legs.
Standing	first	on	dry	land,	then	in	shoulder-deep	water,	practice	the
various	sidestroke	combinations	in	the	following	form:	as	your	arms
meet	at	your	chest,	bend	your	knees;	as	the	arms	extend	for	the	glide
position,	straighten	your	legs.	Repeat	until	the	coordination	comes
easily.
2.	Grapevine	Walk:
	To	practice	coordinating	the	eight	variations	of
the	sidestroke.
Next,	walk	sideways	as	you	coordinate	the	arm	and	leg	motions	by
doing	an	alternating	crossover	side	step.	For	the	
regular	scissors	kick
	(top
leg	moves	forward):	as	your	arms	meet	at	your	chest,	bend	both	legs	and
cross	the	“top”	leg	in	front	of	the	“bottom”	leg.	As	your	arms	extend	for
the	glide,	straighten	both	legs	and	bring	your	back	foot	around	to	meet
the	front	foot,	uncrossing	your	legs	and	ending	with	feet	together.	For
the	
inverted	scissors	kick
	(top	leg	moves	backward):	as	your	arms	meet	at
the	chest,	bend	both	legs	and	cross	the	“top”	leg	
behind
	the	“bottom”	leg.
As	your	arms	extend	for	the	glide,	straighten	both	legs	and	bring	your
front	foot	to	meet	your	back	foot,	uncrossing	them	and	ending	with	feet
together.
Practice	walking	each	of	the	eight	variations,	first	on	land,	then	in
shoulder-deep	water:	1.	Regular	arm	stroke,	regular	scissors	kick	(right
side)
2.	Regular	arm	stroke,	regular	scissors	kick	(left	side)
3.	Regular	arm	motion,	inverted	scissors	kick	(right	side)
4.	Regular	arm	motion,	inverted	scissors	kick	(left	side)
5.	Overarm	motion,	regular	scissors	kick	(right	side)
6.	Overarm	motion,	regular	scissors	kick	(left	side)
7.	Overarm	motion,	inverted	scissors	kick	(right	side)
8.	Overarm	motion,	inverted	scissors	kick	(left	side)
3.	One-arm	Pull	with	Kick:
	To	coordinate	the	top	and	bottom	arms
individually	with	the	scissors	kick.
Do	the	one-arm-pull	drill	(see	
this	page
),	adding	the	kick.	Practice	all
eight	variations	listed	above.
C
OMMON
	S
IDESTROKE
	F
AULTS	AND
	W
HAT	TO
D
O
	
ABOUT	THEM
Body	Position
Error
Correction
Loss	of	balance;	rolling	too	far
forward	or	backward
Maintain	your	balance	on	your	side	by	keeping	the	center	of
your	top	shoulder	and	hip	toward	the	ceiling.
Poor	body	alignment;	body	not
streamlined,	bent	at	waist
Press	your	hips	forward;	increase	joint	extension	and	muscle
stretch.
Head	too	high;	legs	too	low	or
too	deep
To	help	raise	the	legs,	lower	your	head	so	that	the	water	is	at
ear	level;	reduce	the	length	of	your	glide.
Arms:	2-Phase	Arm	Motion
Error
Correction
Arms	slip	through	water	and	lose	their	leverage
Keep	the	elbows	of	both	arms	higher	than
the	hands	during	pull	phases.
Arms	drag	through	water	or	break	the	surface
during	recovery
Keep	your	elbows	close	to	the	body;	recover
your	hands	underwater.
Top	arm	splashes	water	during	Overwater
recovery
Lift	top	arm	as	in	crawl-stroke	recovery,
elbow	high.
Difficulty	in	recovering	arm	at	the	end	of	the	pull,
resulting	in	a	lowering	of	body
Avoid	pulling	arms	beyond	your	chest.
Legs:	Regular	and	Inverted	Scissors	Kick
Error
Correction
Front	or	back	foot	breaks
surface	at	beginning	of
power	phase
Practice	sidestroke	leg	drills	to	keep	the	top	hip	from	rotating
forward	or	backward.
power	phase
Lack	of	power;	forward	foot
not	flexed
Increase	the	speed	and	force	of	the	squeezing	action;	alternately
flex	and	point	forward	foot	during	the	kick,	as	in	pedaling	a
bicycle.
Uneven	leg	motion;	off-center
line	of	movement
Extend	and	separate	both	legs	an	equal	distance	from	the	midline
of	the	body.
Breathing
Error
Correction
Head	moves	forward	and	backward;	face
drops	below	water	level	so	that	mouth	is
submerged
Keep	your	head	still;	keep	the	top	of	the	head
facing	in	direction	in	which	you	are	swimming.
Holding	your	breath	or	breathing	irregularly,
causing	fatigue
Establish	continuous	inhalation	(during	phase	1)
and	exhalation	(during	phase	2)	cycle	for	each
stroke.
Coordination
Error
Correction
Being	one-sided;	doing	only	one
variation
Try	all	eight	variations	of	the	sidestroke,	so	that	both	sides,
both	arms	and	both	legs,	are	used	equally.
Lack	of	power	and	smoothness
during	propulsive	phases	of
stroke
Begin	the	pull	of	the	lower	arm	as	the	top	arm	and	leg
recover,	so	that	the	transition	is	balanced	and	smooth.
Continuous	arm	and	leg
movement;	no	glide
Concentrate	on	relaxation	and	extension	of	the	body,	with	no
arm	or	leg	movement	during	the	glide.
Breathing	not	coordinated	with
stroke
Inhale
	during	phase	1	(recovery	of	legs	and	top	arm,	pull	of
lower	arm);	body	should	end	in	tuck	position.
	
Exhale
	during	phase	2	(power	phase	of	kick	and	pull	of	top
arm,	recovery	of	lower	arm);	continue	to	exhale	during
glide.
P
ART	THREE
STARTS,	DIVES,	AND
TURNS
S
TARTS
T
here	are	two	ways	to	begin	a	swim:	
in-the-water	starts
,	which	are
discussed	here,	and	
out-of-the-water	starts
,	or	
dives
,	which	are	discussed
later.	The	object	of	any	start	is	to	use	the	firm	resistance	of	the	pool	wall
or	bottom	to	give	you	a	speedier,	more	efficient	send-off.
S
TARTING
	T
IPS
All	starts	have	these	basic	principles	in	common:
You	should	push	off	aggressively;	timidity	will	get	you
nowhere.
The	power	for	the	push-off	comes	from	the	legs.	(Jumping	jacks
and	light	weight	training	will	improve	your	starts.)
Your	body	should	be	streamlined	and	stretched,	with	your	legs
straight	and	your	toes	pointed,	muscles	tight;	your	head	should
be	in	line	with	your	body	and	your	arms	should	cover	your	ears
during	the	glide.
C
RAWL
/F
REESTYLE
	I
N
-T
HE
-W
ATER
	S
TART
Stand	in	the	water	with	your	knees	bent	and	your	back	foot	braced
against	the	wall.	Extend	your	arms	straight	out	in	front	of	you	in	the
glide	position	
and	take	a	bite	of	air.	Immediately	drop	underwater,	brace
your	other	foot	against	the	wall,	and	straighten	both	legs	as	forcefully	as
you	can.	During	the	glide,	keep	your	body	stretched	and	streamlined	and
your	toes	pointed.	When	you	begin	to	lose	momentum,	start	flutter
kicking	and	you	will	rise	to	the	surface.	Begin	your	first	pull	with	the
arm	opposite	your	breathing	side.	Then,	as	you	recover	the	other	arm,
take	your	first	inhalation.
Crawl/freestyle	in-the-water	start
.
A	variation	is	the	one-arm	side-standing	position.	Hold	on	to	the
gutter	with	one	hand,	elbow	bent;	extend	the	other	arm	forward	in	the
direction	in	which	you	will	be	swimming,	so	that	your	side	is	facing	the
pool	wall;	rest	your	cheek	on	the	surface	before	pushing	off.
B
REASTSTROKE
	I
N
-T
HE
-W
ATER
	S
TART
Similar	to	the	freestyle	start,	but	the	push-off	is	deeper	because	here
you’ll	take	one	underwater	pull	and	kick	before	coming	up	for	your	first
inhalation.
B
UTTERFLY
	I
N
-T
HE
-W
ATER
	S
TART
A	little	deeper	than	the	freestyle	in-the-water	start,	but	shallower	than
the	breaststroke	start.	While	still	underwater,	take	one	dolphin	kick	to
help	bring	you	back	to	the	surface.
S
IDESTROKE
	I
N
-T
HE
-W
ATER
	S
TART
Similar	to	the	freestyle	start,	except	that	the	push-off	is	shallower	so	that
the	body	barely	submerges.	(The	one-arm	push-off	variation	is	best	for
this	stroke.)
B
ACKSTROKE
	S
TART
Grasp	the	gutter,	or	the	bar	on	the	backstroke	starting	block	if	there	is
one	(in	competition,	this	occurs	at	the	signal	“Swimmers”).	Place	your
feet	against	the	wall	just	below	the	water	surface	(one	slightly	higher
than	the	other,	if	you	find	that	easier),	and	bend	your	knees,	bringing
your	body	into	a	tucked	position.	Bend	your	elbows	and	pull	your	body
up	so	that	the	surface	of	the	water	approaches	hip	level	(when	the
starter	says,	“Take	your	marks”).	To	push	off	(at	the	signal	“Go”),	swing
your	arms	around	to	the	sides	in	a	wide,	sweeping	motion,	your	head
tilted	slightly	backward.	Arch	your	back	and	stretch	your	body	as	you
push	off	with	your	legs,	so	that	you	spring	back	in	a	sort	of	upside-down
swan	dive.
Your	arms	should	cover	your	ears.	Ideally,	your	shoulders,	hips,	and
legs	should	clear	the	water’s	surface.	Exhale	forcefully	through	your	nose
and	mouth	as	you	glide	below	the	surface	in	a	streamlined	position.
Keeping	arms	extended	overhead,	while	still	underwater,	begin	to	flutter
kick	or	dolphin	kick.	Once	your	torso	has	entered	the	water,	bend
slightly	at	the	hips,	this	action	will	begin	to	propel	you	toward	the
surface.	Before	losing	momentum,	your	face	should	emerge	from	the
water	by	taking	your	first	alternating	arm	pull	(not	recovery)	and
leaving	the	other	arm	in	the	overhead	“catch”	position.
The	dolphin	kick	is	most	effective	before	arms	begin	stroking.	Once
your	arms	begin	pulling,	switch	to	the	flutter	kick.	(This	underwater
dolphin	kick	technique	for	starts	and	push-offs	was	revolutionized	by
backstroke	
1988/1992	Olympian	David	Berkoff,	who	exploded	off	his
start	with	the	Berkoff	Blast-off	for	thirty-five	meters	underwater!	The
rules	currently	allow	only	fifteen	meters	to	be	swam	beneath	the
surface.)
Backstroke	start
.
D
IVES
A
	dive	is	really	an	out-of-the-water	start—it	begins	on	land	but	ends	in
the	water.	As	with	the	in-the-water	starts,	the	object	is	to	use	the
resistance	of	a	stationary	object	(in	this	case,	the	pool	deck	or	a	starting
block)	to	give	you	more	distance.	Since	dives	are	faster	than	in-the-water
starts,	most	races	(except	for	backstroke	events)	begin	this	way.	But	even
if	you’re	not	aspiring	to	be	like	multi-Olympic	diver	Greg	Louganis,	you
will	probably	appreciate	the	thrill	of	diving	and	want	to	learn	this	useful
skill.
P
RACTICE
/P
REPARATION
The	idea	of	soaring	through	the	air	in	a	smooth,	graceful	arc	may	make
you	a	bit	nervous	at	first.	After	all,	it’s	a	different	sensation	to	enter	the
water	head	first,	even	though	your	arms	are	stretched	out	to	protect	you.
So,	to	keep	the	fun	and	excitement	in,	and	the	pounding	heart	and	shaky
knees	to	a	minimum,	it’s	important	that	you	learn	how	to	dive	correctly
and	in	gradual	stages.	In	the	step-by-step	progression	that	follows,	what
you	learn	in	one	dive	becomes	the	foundation	for	what	you	learn	in	the
next.
Begin	by	practicing	the	shallow	surface	entry	and	the	sitting	dive
entry	(Lessons	7	and	8,	
this	page
	and	
this	page
).	Next,	do	surface,	or
“porpoise,”	dives	(see	
this	page
)	in	waist-deep	water:	imagine	you’re
diving	over	a	barrel	floating	on	the	surface	without	touching	it.	Then
you	will	learn	the	kneeling	dive,	the	semi-standing,	and	the	standing
dive.	And	if	you	find	
that	you	really	like	diving,	go	on	to	learn	the	racing
dives—whether	you	plan	ever	to	compete	or	not.
D
IVING
	T
IPS
All	dives	share	these	five	components:
1.	Stance:
	Once	you	are	sitting,	kneeling,	or	standing,	with	toes	curled
around	the	edge	of	the	pool,	your	body	is	balanced,	poised,	and	ready
for	takeoff.
2.	Takeoff:
	The	energy	comes	from	the	legs;	the	push-off	is	aggressive
and	assertive;	your	eyes	look	diagonally	forward	and	downward.
3.	Flight:
	The	body	extends	and	arcs	smoothly	through	the	air;	your
position	is	taut	and	streamlined.
4.	Entry:
	The	arms	are	extended	and	enter	the	water	first;	the	head	is
tucked	down	between	them,	ears	covered.
5.	Recovery:
	You	ascend	to	the	surface	in	a	smooth	arc	by	lifting	your
chin	and	angling	your	hands	and	arms	upward.
For	Safe	Diving
Check	pool	regulations	for	safe	diving.
Be	sure	you	dive	into	water	that’s	deep	enough.	Depending	on
the	height	of	pool	edge	and	your	height,	the	water	should	be	at
least	nine	feet	deep.
Check	pool	markers	and	ask	the	lifeguard	to	determine	safe
depth.
If	there	are	no	markers,	enter	feet	first	initially	to	test	depth.
This	is	especially	important	in	an	open	water	environment.
Review	and	practice	diving	skills	in	a	safe	progression.
Extend	your	arms	over	your	head	during	every	dive.
If	you	wear	goggles,	you’ll	have	to	make	the	strap	a	bit	tighter
than	usual	to	keep	them	on	as	you	enter	the	water.
Do	not	use	competitive	starting	blocks	or	platforms	unless
supervised.
K
NEELING
	D
IVE
To	assume	the	
stance
,	kneel	at	the	edge	of	the	pool,	with	your	weight	on
one	knee	and	the	toes	of	your	other	foot	curled	securely	around	the	edge
for	traction.	(If	it’s	uncomfortable	to	kneel,	raise	the	weight-bearing	knee
off	the	ground	slightly.)	Tuck	your	chin	to	your	chest	and	extend	your
arms	straight	out	in	front	of	you	with	your	biceps	tight	against	your	ears.
The	most	common	diving	error	is	raising	the	head	during	entry.	Since
the	body	follows	the	path	of	the	head,	lifting	the	head	is	what	makes	for
so	many	belly	whops.	Also	remember	to	keep	your	eyes	open	throughout
the	dive—since	you’ll	be	landing	in	the	water	head	first,	you	want	to	see
where	you’re	going.	To	keep	your	arms	straight	and	your	hands	together,
hook	your	thumbs,	or	grasp	one	wrist	with	the	other.
To	begin	the	takeoff,	lean	forward	so	that	your	hands	almost	touch	the
water.	Keep	leaning	farther	and	farther,	gradually	shifting	your	weight
forward	until	your	rear	foot	lifts	off	the	deck	and	your	body	begins	to
“fall”	toward	the	surface.	Bring	your	legs	together	as	you	enter	the
water.	Don’t	give	in	to	the	temptation	to	raise	your	head.	And	as	you
practice,	start	to	push	off	with	the	forward	leg,	so	that	instead	of	falling
into	the	water	you	spring	with	energy.	Also,	point	your	hands	downward
at	a	45-degree	angle	on	entry	and	point	your	toes	and	tighten	your	leg
muscles	to	obtain	a	streamlined	position.
Begin	to	exhale	a	second	before	you	hit	the	surface.	Once	in	the	water,
continue	to	exhale	slowly,	and	stretch	and	streamline	your	body	as	it
glides	through	the	water	in	a	downward	arc.
Kneeling	dive
.
To	
recover
,	point	your	fingers	upward.	Arch	your	back	slightly,	lifting
your	chin	and	raising	your	head	and	arms	toward	the	surface.	You	may
begin	to	kick,	or	simply	assume	a	prone	float,	prior	to	recovering	to	a
stand.
S
EMI
-S
TANDING
	D
IVE
	(“T
IP
-I
N
”	D
IVE
)
Once	you	are	comfortable	with	the	kneeling	dive,	learn	to	dive	from	a
slightly	higher	stance.	Stand	with	one	foot	in	back	of	the	other	(with	the
toes	of	the	forward	foot	curled	securely	around	the	edge	of	the	deck	so
that	you	don’t	slip).	Bend	
(pike
)	at	the	waist	with	your	head	tucked
down	(looking	forward	or	toward	the	bottom)	and	your	arms	extended
overhead	and	hugging	your	ears.	Then	press	your	head	and	arms
downward,	while	your	back	leg	presses	upward.	Lean	forward,	lifting	the
back	foot	off	the	deck	and	shifting	all	your	weight	onto	your	front	leg,
until	you	“fall”	toward	the	surface.	As	you	enter,	fingertips	leading,
straighten	your	legs	and	bring	them	together,	toes	pointed.	Make	an	arc
underwater,	as	you	did	for	the	kneeling	dive,	and	remember	to	keep
your	head	tucked	down	and	your	arms	close	to	your	ears	until	it	is	time
to	recover	to	the	surface.
S
TANDING
	D
IVE

Stand	in	a	piked	position	with	your	knees	bent	slightly,	both	feet
together,	toes	curled	around	the	pool	edge.	Again,	your	arms	are
extended	straight	in	front	of	you	at	a	45-degree	angle	to	the	water,	your
head	is	down,	and	your	biceps	are	covering	your	ears.	Think	of	your
body	as	a	seesaw	with	your	hips	as	the	fulcrum.	Bend	your	knees	further,
then	straighten	them	during	takeoff	to	give	the	dive	a	spring	and
therefore	more	height.	As	you	push	off,	lift	your	hips,	tighten	your	legs
and	extend	them	up	and	straight	behind	you,	and	point	your	toes.	As
your	skill	improves,	gradually	straighten	your	body	out	of	the	piked
position	during	the	flight.	Keep	your	head	down	and	your	arms	extended
as	you	stretch	and	spring	up	and	over,	traveling	in	a	smooth,	graceful
arc	before	entering	the	water.	Since	the	higher	stance	of	the	standing
dive	increases	your	distance	from	the	water,	you	will	enter	faster	and
deeper	than	with	the	kneeling	or	semi-standing	dives.	This	may	result	in
a	longer	recovery,	so	remember	to	exhale	slowly	until	you’ve	surfaced.
Semi-standing	dive
.
Standing	dive
.
R
ACING
	D
IVES
There	are	basically	two	competition	starts,	the	conventional	wind-up,
and	the	grab	start.	You	can	vary	starts	and	entries	according	to	your
ability	and	needs,	but	the	shallower	entry	should	be	mastered	before
going	on	to	the	newer	piked	entry.
Wind-up	or	Arm-swing	Dive	(with	Shallow	Entry)
The	conventional	wind-up	dive	has	been	used	for	many	years	for	all
strokes	swum	in	the	prone	position.	Even	if	you’re	a	fitness	swimmer,
you	too	may	prefer	to	enter	the	water	for	a	workout	using	this	clean	and
fairly	shallow	dive.
In	competition,	the	dive	takes	place	off	a	starting	block	thirty	inches
above	the	water’s	surface.	The	object	is	to	create	as	much	
horizontal
forward	propulsion	and	as	little	resistance	as	possible.	In	order	to	do
this,	you	create	a	“hole”	in	the	water	for	your	body	to	enter.	This	is	also
termed	a	nonresistance	entry	because	the	body	enters	the	water	cleanly,
through	a	vacuum	that	it	has	created	for	itself.
Before	learning	the	dive,	get	the	feel	of	the	“hole”	by	practicing	this
drill	in	waist-deep	water.	Push	off	forcefully	from	the	bottom	of	the
pool,	diving	over	the	surface	of	the	water.	During	the	over-the-water	arc,
extend	your	arms	overhead,	arch	your	back,	and	lift	your	head.	Then,	as
you	enter	the	water,	drop	your	head	and	round	your	shoulders,	so	the
rest	of	your	body	passes	through	the	“hole”	created	by	your	shoulders
and	arms.
To	begin	the	wind-up	dive	(in	competition,	at	the	signal	“Swimmers”),
step	forward	to	the	edge	of	the	pool	or	onto	the	starting	block.	Stand
straight	with	your	toes	curled	tightly	over	the	edge,	feet	about	hip	width
apart.	Bend	your	knees	(at	the	signal	“Take	your	marks”),	and	let	your
arms	hang	wherever	they	feel	comfortable	and	balanced.	Your	weight	is
forward,	on	the	balls	of	your	feet,	and	your	eyes	are	looking	ahead.
To	push	off	(at	the	signal	“Go”—a	gun,	whistle,	horn,	beeper,	etc.),
drop	your	head,	round	your	shoulders,	and	swing	your	arms	vigorously
backward	and	upward.	As	your	body	leans	forward	(or	“overbalances”),
swing	your	arms	back	down	and	around	to	the	front	in	a	semicircle.
Begin	to	extend	your	legs	to	initiate	the	takeoff.
Continue	to	push	off,	straightening	your	legs	and	lifting	your	head	to
look	at	your	target.	By	the	time	your	feet	lift	off,	your	arms	have	stopped
their	swing	and	are	straight	ahead	of	you,	pointed	forward	and
downward	at	a	shallow	angle.	Your	legs	are	as	stretched	and	streamlined
as	possible.	
Once	you’re	completely	extended	over	the	water,	drop	your
head	downward	to	try	to	get	your	body	to	pass	through	the	“hole”	made
by	your	hands.	Your	entry	should	be	relatively	flat,	at	about	a	10-to	20-
degree	angle.
Wind-up	racing	dive	with	shallow	entry
.
After	you’ve	entered	the	water,	glide,	holding	your	streamlined
position,	until	you	begin	to	lose	momentum;	then	initiate	the	kick,
followed	by	the	arm	motion.
Grab	Start	(with	Shallow	Entry)
This	is	a	newer	variation	of	the	racing	dive.	Although	it	is	similar	to	the
wind-up	start	in	many	ways,	it	usually	gets	you	into	the	water	faster.
Stand	at	the	edge	of	the	pool	or	on	the	starting	block	(at	the	call	of
“Swimmers”),	your	feet	hip	width	apart	and	your	toes	curled	around	the
edge.	Bend	forward	at	the	waist	(at	the	signal	“Take	your	marks”)	and
grasp	the	gutter	of	the	pool	or	the	platform	or	bar	of	the	starting	block.
Your	hands	are	usually	between	your	feet	at	this	point,	but	you	can	also
place	them	outside	your	feet.	The	grab	position	should	allow	you	to
balance	your	weight	forward	over	the	starting	block.	At	the	signal	“Go”
overbalance	your	body	by	pulling	and	stretching	your	shoulders	and
head	down.	Then	release	the	platform	or	bar	as	your	torso	goes	forward.
This	levels	off	your	trajectory	as	you	leave	the	starting	block	in	much	the
same	way	that	the	wind-up	arm	swing	of	the	conventional	racing	dive
does,	but	the	grab	start	takes	less	time.
As	your	hands	release,	look	up	toward	the	end	of	the	pool	and	swing
your	arms	up	and	forward.	Follow	through	with	your	body	and
straighten	
your	knees	to	begin	the	forward	thrust.	As	your	arms	extend
completely,	at	a	45-degree	angle	downward	to	the	water,	let	your	legs
extend	fully	behind	you,	completing	the	takeoff.	Your	hips	should	pike
in	the	air	to	help	your	body	enter	the	“hole”	created	by	your	arms.	Your
hands	may	overlap	for	the	entry,	which	is	at	a	greater	downward	angle
(approximately	30	to	45	degrees)	than	that	of	the	shallow	entry.
To	recover,	lift	your	head	and	arch	your	back	slightly.	Begin	flutter
kicking	and,	as	you	surface,	initiate	the	arm	stroke.
Pike	Entry
This	is	a	newer	version	of	the	racing-dive	entry.	Although	it’s	usually
used	with	a	grab	start,	you	can	also	use	it	with	the	wind-up	dive.	The
pike	entry	is	faster	than	the	more	shallow	entry	because	it	takes
advantage	of	the	whipping	action	of	your	legs	and	hips	during	the	flight
to	give	you	additional	propulsion.
Assume	your	stance,	looking	diagonally	forward	and	down.	As	you
push	off	with	your	legs,	spring	up	into	the	air.	Lift	your	head	as	your
hands	drive	forward	to	lift	your	hips	higher	than	your	original	standing
position.	Then	bend	your	hips	to	assume	a	partial	jackknife	position.
Enter	the	water	hands	first	with	head	dropped	between	your	arms;	then,
as	your	shoulders	enter,	straighten	your	hips	and	pull	them	down	into
the	“hole”	that	your	arms	have	made.	Since	your	body	position	is	deeper
here	than	in	other	racing	dives,	begin	your	kick	early	to	help	you	rise	to
the	surface	quickly.	If	you’ve	done	it	correctly,	you’ll	know	it—compare
your	distance	with	that	from	the	other	dives.
Grab-start	racing	dive	with	piked	entry
.
C
OMMON
	D
IVING
	E
RRORS	AND
	W
HAT	TO
D
O
	A
BOUT
	T
HEM
A	dive	can	go	wrong	anywhere	along	the	way.	If	your	diving	isn’t	all
you’d	like	it	to	be,	check	for	these	common	errors.
Stance:
Error
Correction
Body	falls
forward;	off
Grasp	edge	firmly	with	your	toes	for	support	while	maintaining	your	balance
with	your	arms;	hips	serve	as	center	of	gravity.
forward;	off
balance
with	your	arms;	hips	serve	as	center	of	gravity.
Arms	too	far	back
overhead
Keep	arms	below	shoulder	level	to	protect	head.
Takeoff:
Error
Correction
Weak	push-off
Review	porpoise	dive	push-off.
Legs	hit	edge	of
deck
Push	off	aggressively,	pointing	your	toes	asyou	take	off;	be	certain	to	curl	toes
over	edge	during	stance.
Flight:
Error
Correction
Body	loses
streamlined
position
Press	legs	up	while	arms	direct	downward	motion;	keep	body	extended.	Stretch
and	maintain	streamlined	body	position;	keep	arms	and	legs	together.
Entry:
Error
Correction
Belly	whop;	head	and	chest	enter
the	water	first
Keep	chin	tucked	to	chest;	use	arms	to	protect	head	and	for
streamlining;	enter	hands	first.
Body	crumples	on	entry
Keep	arms	extended	overhead	until	hips	and	feet	have	entered
the	“hole”	made	by	hands.
Water	enters	the	nose	and/or
mouth
Begin	exhaling	a	moment	before	head	enters	water.
Recovery:
Error
Correction
Water	enters	nose	and/or
mouth
Continue	to	exhale	to	counteract	water	pressure.
Body	pops	up	to	surface
too	soon
Delay	recovery	until	forward	and	downward	momentum	have
slowed;	then	begin	kick.
T
URNS
I
f	you	swim	laps	in	a	pool,	you	should	have	at	least	some	idea	about
what	to	do	when	you	get	to	the	other	end.	Just	how	
do
	you	turn	your
body	around	in	an	efficient,	graceful	way	in	order	to	begin	the	next	lap?
Turns
	are	the	answer.	They	also	add	variety	to	your	swimming	workouts,
and	the	push-off	stage	is	an	effective	way	to	condition	your	legs.
The	turns	are	slightly	different	for	each	stroke,	but	all	have	the	same
purpose:	to	use	your	body’s	momentum	to	make	a	180-degree	turn—and
to	do	it	with	no	wasted	effort	and	no	pause.	There	are	two	basic	types	of
turns.	In	ascending	order	of	speed,	efficiency,	difficulty,	and
impressiveness,	they	are	the	
open	turn
	(used	in	all	strokes,	along	with	the
closed-turn
	variation	used	in	the	crawl)	and	the	
flip	turn
	(used	in	crawl
and	backstroke).	Fitness	swimmers	should	learn	at	least	the	open	turn
for	each	stroke,	but	there’s	no	need	to	stop	there.	The	closed	crawl	turn
will	come	easily	as	your	fitness,	breath	control,	and	confidence	increase.
Before	long	you	may	be	tempted	to	try	the	flip	turn—and	you’ll	be	able
to	do	it,	too,	by	following	the	step-by-step	progression	explained	below.
In	addition,	there	are	
transitional	turns
	used	to	change	from	one	stroke	to
another,	as	when	you	go	from	swimming	the	freestyle	to	swimming	the
breaststroke.
T
URNING
	T
IPS
Remember,	there	are	five	components	to	any	kind	of	turn:
1.	The	Approach:
	Timing	is	important	here.	In	order	to	begin	the	turn
at	just	the	right	moment,	you	must	be	able	to	judge	the	distance	between
your	body	and	the	end	of	the	pool,	so	that	you	will	be	in	proper	position
as	you	near	the	wall.	Use	your	momentum	to	accelerate	as	you	approach
the	wall.
2.	The	Turn:
	During	the	180-degree	turn,	you	shift	your	body	so	that
your	feet	are	planted	on	the	wall	and	your	torso	is	facing	the	new
direction.	Just	before	push-off,	your	body	should	be	tucked,	or	coiled,	as
tightly	as	possible,	ready	to	spring	into	action.
3.	The	Push-off:
	Be	aggressive	during	this	phase.	Push	off	forcefully
with	your	legs,	as	though	the	wall	of	the	pool	were	the	floor	and	you
were	trying	to	jump	as	high	into	the	air	as	possible.	Don’t	hesitate;	the
idea	is	to	hit	the	wall	and	ricochet	off	it	like	a	bullet.
4.	Glide:
	Extending	and	streamlining	your	body,	glide	through	the
water	on	the	momentum	from	the	explosive	push-off.
5.	Recovery:
	When	the	glide	begins	to	slow,	resurface	and
immediately	initiate	the	stroke	so	that	you	don’t	lose	the	momentum.
Usually	you	resume	kicking	first,	then	add	the	arm	motion.
In	general,	you	should	be	sure	of	your	open	turns	before	attempting
the	closed	turn;	once	you	have	the	closed	turn,	you	can	move	on	to	the
flip	turns	used	in	the	crawl	and	backstroke.	Practice	each	turn	in	shallow
water	first,	if	possible,	before	trying	it	in	deep	water.	Always	practice
turning	to	both	sides	an	equal	number	of	times;	try	not	to	favor	one	side
over	the	other.	This	is	especially	important	in	the	crawl	and	the
backstroke,	which	have	alternating	arm	movements—you	never	know
which	arm	will	be	leading	when	you	reach	the	wall.	But	it’s	important	in
the	other	strokes,	too,	because	the	top	leg	tends	to	exert	more	force	than
the	bottom	leg	during	the	push-off.	So	turning	to	both	sides	helps	to
balance	muscle	development	as	well.
O
PEN
	T
URNS
This	is	the	easiest	type	of	turn,	and	you	should	learn	it	before	attempting
the	more	advanced	ones.	There	are	two	important	things	to	remember:
the	first	is	to	keep	your	body	as	low	in	the	water	as	possible	during	the
inhalation;	try	to	let	just	your	head	come	up	out	of	the	water—not	your
shoulders.	The	second	thing	to	remember	is	the	principle	of	opposing
hands—the	hand	that	contacts	the	wall	is	
opposite
	the	side	to	which	you
are	going	to	turn.	For	example,	if	your	left	arm	touches	the	wall,	you
turn	to	the	right.
Crawl-stroke/Freestyle	Open	Turn
Approach	the	wall	with	your	eyes	open	and	your	face	in	the	water;	look
slightly	forward	so	that	you	can	see	the	marker	on	the	bottom	and/or	on
the	wall	(in	the	absence	of	either	of	these,	look	for	the	line	at	which	the
bottom	meets	the	wall).	Try	to	maintain	your	normal	stroke	as	you
arrive	at	the	wall	with	one	arm	extended	in	the	catch	position;	try	not	to
shorten	your	stroke	or	to	glide	too	much.	As	you	approach	the	wall,
“kick	in”	if	necessary	rather	than	overstroking.
To	begin	the	turn,	grasp	the	gutter	with	your	extended	hand	(in	the
absence	of	a	gutter,	press	your	hand	against	the	wall	at	water	level	to
stabilize	your	body).	As	your	hand	touches,	flex	your	elbow,	bring	your
head	and	body	in	close	to	the	wall,	allow	your	opposite	shoulder	to
drop,	and	rotate	180	degrees	so	that	you’re	facing	the	new	direction.	As
you	rotate,	bend	your	knees	and	swing	your	feet	and	hips	under	your
body.	Lift	your	head	just	enough	to	inhale	quickly	as	your	weight	shifts.
As	your	feet	contact	the	wall,	let	go	with	your	hand	and	swing	it	over
your	shoulder	and	drop	it	about	one	foot	beneath	the	surface	to	join
your	other	arm,	which	stays	extended	away	from	the	wall	throughout.
Both	arms	are	now	stretched	over	your	head	and	pointing	toward	the
opposite	end	of	the	pool,	your	feet	are	still	pressed	against	the	wall,	and
your	entire	body	is	slightly	on	its	side.
Next,	push	off	forcefully	from	the	pool	wall	by	extending	your	body
and	straightening	your	knees.	Keep	your	body	streamlined,	arms
stretched	overhead,	knees	locked	and	toes	pointed.	As	you	begin	your
glide,	rotate	back	into	a	fully	prone	position	and	continue	the	glide
toward	the	surface.
As	you	begin	to	lose	the	momentum	of	the	push-off,	start	to	flutter
kick.	As	you	surface,	add	the	arm	stroke,	pulling	first	with	the	arm
opposite	your	breathing	side;	as	you	complete	the	pull	on	your	breathing
side,	take	your	first	inhalation.
The	crawl-stroke/freestyle	open	turn.
The	approach
.
The	turn
.
The	push-off
PRACTICE
:	Learn	the	open	turn	in	gradual	steps:
In	shallow	water,	practice	the	in-the-water	start,	the	push-off,
the	glide,	and	the	recovery	and	stroke	initiation.
Next,	add	the	turn.	Start	by	grasping	the	gutter	or	touching	the
wall	with	one	hand,	leaving	the	other	arm	extended	toward	the
opposite	end	of	the	pool.	Place	your	feet	on	the	wall	in	the
push-off	position,	with	your	head	resting	on	your	free	arm,
which	remains	extended	about	one	foot	below	the	surface
toward	the	opposite	end	of	the	pool.	Inhale,	drop	underwater,
and	push	off.	Practice	on	each	side	of	your	body.
Walk	toward	the	wall	with	one	arm	extended	and	practice	the
entire	open	turn	first	with	one	hand,	then	the	other.	Repeat,
this	time	kicking	toward	the	wall	with	one	arm	extended.
Finally,	swim	toward	the	wall	and	do	the	open	turn.
Crawl/Freestyle	Closed	Turn
The	closed	turn	is	faster	than	the	open	turn	because	the	transition	is
smoother	and	more	efficient.	Learning	the	closed	turn	is	also	an
intermediate	step	in	learning	the	freestyle	flip	turn,	and	it	helps	to
develop	your	controlled	breathing.	The	closed	turn	is	done	exactly	like
an	open	turn	except	that	your	face	stays	underwater.	Just	before	your
forward	arm	touches	the	wall,	take	a	big	bite	of	air;	then	return	your
face	to	the	water.
Backstroke	Open	Turn
In	this	stroke,	although	you	can’t	see	the	approaching	wall,	you	can	still
use	your	momentum	to	advantage.	To	begin	the	turn,	grab	the	gutter	or
deck	edge	with	one	hand	(or	press	the	hand	to	the	wall	at	water	level,
palm	flat	and	thumb	up).	Bend	and	drop	your	elbow	to	bring	your	head
and	body	close	to	the	wall	as	you	turn	toward	your	contact	arm.	Tuck
your	knees	in	close	to	your	chest	and,	keeping	your	free	arm	extended	in
the	direction	you	just	came	from,	turn	180	degrees	on	your	back	so	that
you	end	up	facing	the	wall	with	your	feet	touching	it.	Inhale	as	you
bring	the	contact	arm	overhead	to	meet	the	extended	one.
To	initiate	the	push-off,	stretch	your	arms	and	upper	body	as	you
straighten	your	knees.	Keep	your	head	tucked	between	your	arms,
slightly	underwater;	as	you	glide,	approach	the	surface	at	a	slight	angle,
exhaling	continually.
Backstroke	open	turn.
The	approach
.
The	turn
.
The	push-off.
To	recover	to	the	surface,	begin	to	flutter	kick	as	your	momentum
from	the	push-off	decreases.	Take	a	pull	with	one	arm	just	as	you	reach
the	surface,	keeping	the	other	arm	extended	in	the	catch	position	for	the
best	streamlining.	Inhale	when	your	face	clears	the	water.	When	the	first
arm	begins	to	recover,	pull	with	the	other	arm.
Instead	of	turning	your	head	continually	to	take	a	peek	at	the
approaching	wall	(thus	losing	momentum),	you	can	use	some	sort	of
stationary	reference	point	(such	as	the	flags	strung	width-wise	across
some	pools	five	yards	from	each	end,	or	even	a	ladder)	to	warn	you	of
your	arrival.	Just	remember	the	number	of	strokes	needed	to	reach	the
end	from	this	point.	As	you	arrive	at	the	wall,	keep	one	arm	extended
overhead	in	the	catch	position	and	kick	in,	with	the	other	arm	remaining
in	the	direction	from	which	you	came.
PRACTICE
:	Learn	the	open	turn	in	gradual	steps:
Practice	in	shallow	water,	beginning	with	the	in-the-water
push-off,	the	glide,	the	recovery	and	stroke	initiation.
Walk	backward	toward	the	wall	with	one	hand	extended	to	it
and	the	other	hand	facing	the	opposite	end	of	the	pool.	When
your	hand	contacts	the	wall,	make	an	open	turn.	Repeat,
contacting	with	the	other	hand.
Next,	flutter	kick	toward	the	wall	on	your	back,	with	one	hand
extended	behind	you;	practice	the	open	turn	first	on	one	side,
then	on	the	other.
Finally,	backstroke	to	the	wall	and	do	the	open	turn	(remember
to	check	for	your	landmark	as	you	approach	the	wall).
Breaststroke	Open	Turn
Approach	the	wall	with	your	eyes	open,	looking	slightly	forward	so	that
you	can	see	it	coming.	Try	to	maintain	your	speed	and	rhythm,	and	try
to	arrive	at	the	wall	in	full	stroke,	both	arms	extended	underwater	in
front	of	you,	parallel	to	the	water	surface	and	to	each	other.
To	begin	the	turn,	touch	the	wall	at	surface	level	with	both	hands.	As
you	touch	the	wall,	immediately	inhale	and	turn	toward	one	side	by
driving	that	shoulder	into	the	water	at	a	90-degree	angle	and	drawing
the	same	elbow	to	your	side.	As	you	turn,	swing	the	other	arm	of	the
driving	shoulder	away	from	the	wall,	and	pivot	180	degrees,	being
certain	to	complete	your	inhalation	before	your	head	drops.	Release	the
other	hand	from	
the	wall	as	you	pivot;	then	bend	your	legs	and	bring
them	under	your	body,	planting	your	feet	on	the	wall,	one	higher	than
the	other.	(As	your	turn	improves,	you	may	notice	that	during	this
exchange	there	is	a	moment	when	no	part	of	your	body	is	touching	the
wall.)	Extend	both	arms	in	front	of	you;	your	body	is	still	slightly	tilted
or	rolled	on	the	driving	shoulder	side.	(Some	competitive	swimmers
attempt	to	obtain	additional	streamlining	by	crossing	their	feet	and
hands	during	the	turn.)	
Breastroke	and	butterfly	open	turn.
The	approach
.
The	start	of	the	turn
.
The	completion	of	the	turn
.
The	push-off
.
Push	off	by	straightening	your	legs	and	extending	your	body	into	a
streamlined,	fully	prone	position.	Also,	push	off	at	a	slightly	downward
angle	(hips	higher	than	head	and	arms)	to	take	advantage	of	this	extra
bit	of	speed.	During	this	deeper	push-off,	you	should	feel	as	if	you	are
going	downhill	for	a	moment	(“downstreaming”).	As	you	begin	to	lose
the	momentum	from	the	push-off,	take	one	underwater	pull	(see
“Breaststroke	In-The-Water	Start,”	
this	page
).	Make	this	pull	as	powerful
as	possible	and	don’t	stop	at	shoulder	level	as	usual—extend	the	pull	by
bringing	the	hands	under	your	chest	and	abdomen	and	pushing	all	the
way	under	the	thighs.	As	you	recover	the	arms,	take	one	kick,	moving
the	hips	up	to	get	the	dolphin	body	wave	(see	
this	page
).	Then,	as	you
surface,	begin	to	take	your	second	arm	pull	to	continue	the	breaststroke.
In	competition,	you	are	allowed	only	one	pull	and	one	kick	before	your
head	must	break	the	surface.
PRACTICE
:	Practice	this	turn	in	stages,	on	each	side	of	your	body.
Practice	the	in-the-water	start	(the	push-off,	the	glide,	and	the
recovery	and	stroke	initiation)	in	shallow	water.
Add	the	turn,	grasping	the	wall	with	both	hands	to	negotiate
the	exchange.	Try	to	increase	your	distance	each	time	you
practice.
Walk	to	the	wall	with	both	arms	extended	and	practice	the
turn.	Next,	kick	to	the	wall	with	both	arms	extended	and	make
the	turn.
To	get	more	speed	in	the	turn,	you	can	lift	your	head	as	you
contact	the	wall,	then	start	the	rotation	immediately.
Butterfly	Open	Turn
Like	the	breaststroke	turn,	the	butterfly	turn	is	a	two-hand	touch.
However,	do	not	push	off	at	as	deep	an	angle	as	in	the	breaststroke	push-
off.	During	the	glide,	extend	your	body	into	a	streamlined,	fully	prone
position	and	keep	your	arms	extended	in	front	of	you.	(Unlike	the
breaststroke	turn,	there’s	no	underwater	pull.)	The	glide	is	followed
immediately	by	one	or	more	dolphin	kicks	to	help	you	surface.
Breastroke	pull-out.
The	push-off
.
The	underwater	pull
.
The	recovery	to	surface
.
Sidestroke	Open	Turn
Use	a	variation	of	the	crawl-stroke	open	turn.	Touch	the	wall	with	the
leading	arm,	shift	your	weight,	bringing	your	feet	around	to	touch	the
wall	and	driving	the	shoulder	of	the	free	arm	into	the	water	at	a	90-
degree	angle.	Push	off	and	initiate	the	stroke,	swimming	on	the	side
opposite	the	one	you	used	during	the	previous	lap.
F
LIP
	T
URNS
Flip	turns	may	be	done	during	the	freestyle	and	backstroke.	The	flip
(which	is	like	a	somersault	combined	with	a	twist	for	the	crawl,	and
actually	more	like	a	swivel	for	the	backstroke)	adds	speed	and	power	to
the	turn.
Freestyle	Flip	Turn
Approach	the	wall,	looking	forward	and,	if	necessary,	accelerating	your
stroke.	When	your	leading	arm	is	two	to	four	feet	from	the	wall,	tuck
your	chin	to	your	chest,	pull	with	your	extended	arm	(so	that	both	arms
are	at	your	sides),	and	do	a	dolphin	kick	(see	
this	page
)	to	initiate	the
flip.
The	timing	of	the	turn	is	very	important.	In	general,	it’s	best	to	judge
the	distance	conservatively	(i.e.,	to	give	yourself	more	room	than	you
need	to	execute	the	turn)	than	to	cramp	the	turn	and	possibly	hit	your
heels	on	the	deck.	Just	prior	to	beginning	your	flip,	when	you	take	your
last	rhythmic	breath,	be	certain	to	get	a	big	bite	of	air	(because	you	will
not	take	another	breath	until	you	surface	after	the	flip).
To	begin	the	flip,	back	water	(scoop	water	from	your	hips	toward	your
face)	with	the	arm	opposite	the	side	to	which	you	are	going	to	turn.	To
lift	your	hips	and	legs	up	out	of	the	water,	bend	your	upper	body
forward	and	push	water	toward	your	abdomen	with	your	leading	arm.
Then	tuck	your	body	and	bend	your	knees,	as	the	lower	part	of	your	legs
come	out	of	the	water.
As	your	feet	flip	over	your	head,	twist	your	trunk	to	one	side.	(It	may
help	to	make	a	little	circular	motion	at	this	point	with	the	hand	on	the
side	that	you	are	turning	toward;	e.g.,	if	you	turn	to	the	right,	circle	with
your	right	hand.)	As	you	complete	the	flip,	begin	to	straighten	out	of	the
tuck;	plant	your	feet	on	the	wall	and	begin	to	extend	both	arms	in	front
of	you.
On	the	push-off,	continue	to	twist	and	extend	your	body	during	the
glide	so	that	you	finish	face	down	in	a	fully	prone	position.
Recover	to	the	surface	(as	in	the	other	turns)	by	lifting	your	head	and
arching	your	back	(hyperextending	your	body)	to	streamline	your	body
before	beginning	to	flutter	kick.
PRACTICE
:	Practice	the	flip	turn	in	gradual	steps:
First	get	accustomed	to	somersaulting	in	water.	Practice	this
from	a	standing	position	while	walking	and	then	while
swimming	in	shallow	water.
Next	practice	the	closed	turn,	contacting	your	extended	hand
lower	and	lower	on	the	wall	(hand	flat,	fingers	pointed
downward),	and	gradually	lifting	your	hips	and	legs	higher	and
higher	out	of	the	water.
When	your	hand	makes	contact	about	two	feet	below	the	water
surface,	add	the	full	somersaulting	and	twisting	action.
Freestyle	flip	turn.
The	approach.	Chin	tucks	to	chest,	extended	arm	pulls,	legs	dolphin	kick
.
The	tuck.	Backwater,	lift	hips	out	of	water,	bend	upper	body	forward;	tuck	body	and	bend
knees
.

The	flip.	Trunk	twists	while	feet	contact	wall
.
The	push-off
.
Backstroke	flip	turn.
The	roll	during	approach
.
The	pivot	to	prone	position
.
The	tuck	and	flip	position
.
The	push-off	position
.
Backstroke	Spin	Turn
This	is	similar	to	the	open	turn,	but	you’ll	contact	the	wall	with	the	palm
of	your	extended	hand,	fingers	pointing	downward.	Arch	your	arm,
cocking	your	wrist	just	prior	to	contacting	the	wall.	As	you	touch,
continue	to	kick	in,	bending	your	elbow,	bringing	your	head	and	body
close	to	the	wall,	and	taking	a	bite	of	air.	Bend	your	knees,	legs	together,
so	that	they	emerge	from	the	water.	As	your	head	tucks	down	to	your
chest	and	your	upper	body	drops	below	the	surface,	your	lower	body
spins	180	degrees	in	a	sideways	position.
Quickly	spin	your	legs	and	hips	over	the	shoulder	of	your	extended
arm,	so	that	your	feet	land	on	the	wall,	ready	for	push-off.	To	help	you
turn,	use	your	free	arm,	which	initially	is	near	your	hips,	to	back	water
(to	push	water	up	toward	your	face).	As	you	turn,	the	free	arm	ends	up
back	overhead,	where	it	continues	to	back	water.
As	you	plant	your	feet	on	the	wall,	extend	both	arms	overhead	for
maximum	streamlining.	Push	off,	glide,	recover,	and	initiate	the	stroke
as	you	would	for	the	backstroke	open	turn.
Practice	the	backstroke	spin	by	mastering	the	open	turn	first.	As	you
turn,	gradually	lift	your	legs	and	hips	higher	and	higher,	still	keeping
your	upper	body	in	an	arched	position,	chest	up.	The	lower	your	contact
hand,	the	more	leverage	you	will	have	to	spin	your	legs	around.
Backstroke	Flip	Turn
This	is	similar	to	the	freestyle	flip	turn.	As	you	approach	the	wall,	roll
onto	your	arm	that	is	extended	overhead	into	a	prone	position,	and	pull
both	arms	under	your	body.	Both	arms	are	now	at	your	sides	so	you	can
begin	to	flip.	Turn	your	palms	to	face	the	bottom	of	the	pool.	Scoop
them	overhead,	flipping	your	legs	out	of	the	water	so	that	your	feet	then
contact	the	wall.	Push	off	from	this	tuck	position,	staying	on	your	back,
and	resume	a	streamlined	backstroke	push-off.
T
RANSITIONAL
	T
URNS
	(U
SED	IN
	I
NDIVIDUAL
	M
EDLEY
)
Occasionally	you	will	want	to	change	from	one	stroke	to	another,	so	you
will	have	to	modify	the	turns	somewhat.	This	occurs,	for	instance,	in	the
competitive	event	called	the	Individual	Medley	(or	IM),	where	one	goes
from	swimming	the	butterfly	to	the	backstroke,	to	the	breaststroke,	to
the	
freestyle—without	stopping.	For	instance,	1992	Olympian	swimmer
Summer	Sanders	utilized	transitional	turns	in	her	medal-winning	swims.
IMs,	naturally,	are	often	incorporated	into	fitness	workouts	because
they’re	a	great	way	to	add	variety	to	your	swimming,	no	matter	what
your	level.
Butterfly	to	Backstroke
Touch	the	wall	with	both	hands	and	tuck	your	body,	bringing	your	feet
to	the	wall.	Inhale	at	this	point.	Then	push	off	as	you	would	for	the
backstroke	start.	A	faster	variation	is	to	drop	one	shoulder	after	touching
the	wall,	pushing	off	sideways	to	avoid	your	own	wake	and	being	certain
both	arms	are	extended	overhead	before	push-off.
Backstroke	to	Breaststroke
To	accomplish	this	as	an	open	turn,	begin	the	open	backstroke	turn,
bringing	your	knees	toward	your	chest	as	your	body	rotates	(with	the
hips	as	the	fulcrum)	from	a	supine	to	a	prone	position.	Inhale	at	this
point.	You	will	now	be	facing	the	new	direction.	Let	go	of	the	wall	and
swing	your	arm	to	meet	the	leading	arm,	which	has	remained	in	place
during	the	turn.	Drop	your	head	and	push	off.
To	do	this	as	a	flip	turn,	begin	by	taking	a	quick	bite	of	air.	Bring	your
knees	directly	overhead	and	rotate	to	a	prone	position,	ending	up	facing
in	the	new	direction.	Push	off	as	usual.
Breaststroke	to	Freestyle
As	you	touch	the	wall	with	two	hands,	immediately	release	one	arm	and
bring	it	around	over	the	water	in	the	same	direction	that	you	will	turn.
Inhale	as	you	pivot	and	swing	the	other	arm	to	meet	the	first;	push	off
on	one	side	and	during	the	glide	gradually	untwist	to	end	up	in	a	fully
prone	position.
T
URNING	WITH
	E
QUIPMENT
You’re	not	a	show-off	if	you	turn	while	using	equipment—it’s	actually
easier	to	do	some	turns	this	way.	If	you’re	wearing	a	combination	of
equipment,	combine	the	following	techniques	as	applicable.
Kickboards
Reach	for	the	wall	with	one	hand	while	the	other	holds	on	to	the
kickboard.	Turn	180	degrees	in	either	direction	as	the	leading	edge	of
the	board	approaches	the	wall,	as	for	the	open	turn.	Keep	your	arms
extended	and	your	body	streamlined	as	you	come	out	of	the	turn.
Pull-buoy
You	may	do	a	flip	or	an	open	turn	(eventually,	a	flip	will	be	the	easiest).
For	either	of	them,	be	certain	that	your	legs	are	pressed	together,	so	that
you	don’t	lose	the	pull-buoy.	As	you	approach	the	wall	with	your
forward	arm,	execute	the	turn	of	your	choice,	bend	your	knees	into	a
tucked	position,	and	press	your	thighs	together	as	tightly	as	possible.	As
you	come	out	of	the	turn,	initiate	your	stroke	with	a	pull	(or	you	can	do
a	dolphin	kick).
Fins
Since	you	swim	faster	with	fins,	you’ll	need	to	anticipate	the	wall	earlier
than	usual.	During	the	open,	closed,	or	flip	turn,	begin	to	tuck	your
knees	to	your	chest	as	you	approach	the	wall.	Be	certain	to	
flex
	your	feet
toward	your	shins,	the	fins	hitting	the	wall	as	flat	as	possible,	so	that	you
don’t	“trip”	on	them.
Hand	Paddles
Since	you	can’t	grasp	the	gutter	while	wearing	hand	paddles,	approach
the	wall	with	your	forward	hand	flexed	(even	if	you’re	doing	an	open
turn	and	usually	grasp	the	gutter).	Plant	your	forward	hand	on	the	wall
sideways,	your	fingers	pointing	in	the	direction	of	the	turn,	below	water
level.	Continue	the	turn	as	usual,	recovering	with	your	hands	on,	next	to,
or	on	top	of	each	other—paddles	pointed	downward.	Using	hand	paddles
won’t	interfere	with	your	flip	turn.
P
ART	FOUR
SWIMMING-FOR-
FITNESS
PROGRESSIVE
WORKOUT	PROGRAM
	
T
HE
	T
RAINING
	E
FFECT
It’s	all	because	of	Milo.	He’s	the	wrestler	who	walked	around	ancient
Greece	all	day	with	a	calf	draped	over	his	shoulders.	Every	day,	as	the
calf	grew	larger,	Milo	grew	stronger	from	bearing	the	increasing	weight.
Today,	Milo’s	method	would	draw	more	than	a	few	snickers	even	from
warm-up-suit-clad	fitness	freaks.	But	in	a	manner	of	speaking,	we	too
carry	growing	calves	on	our	shoulders	when	we	“work	out”	regularly:	all
training	is	based	on	the	age-old	principle	of	gradual	overload	and	our
body’s	adaptation	to	it.
All	the	components	of	total	fitness—endurance,	strength,	flexibility,
and	speed—depend	upon	this	basic	principle:	by	overloading	your	body,
by	making	demands	on	it	that	are	just	a	bit	more	than	it	can	handle
comfortably,	you	force	it	to	adapt.	This	marvelous	adaptation	is	known
as	the	“training	effect.”	Your	body	will,	of	course,	protest	a	bit	(“no	pain,
no	gain”),	and	can	only	adjust	to	a	certain	amount	of	strain	without
injury.	But	if	you	train	sensibly	and	increase	the	workload	gradually,	it
will	reward	you	with	the	capability	to	work	harder	and	perform	better
under	all	conditions.
In	a	well-designed,	all-round	fitness	program,	you	become	stronger
because	initially	your	muscle	fibers	break	down	under	the	strain	and	use
the	diminishing	supply	of	oxygen	and	nutrients	less	and	less	efficiently
(that’s	why	you	get	tired	and	perhaps	a	bit	sore).	Then	they	regenerate
and,	in	the	process,	become	stronger	and	more	efficient	(just	as	scar
tissue	is	tougher	than	unscared	skin,	and	a	fracture,	once	healed,	is
stronger	than	the	rest	of	the	bone).	Muscle	fibers	also	become
permanently	elongated,	giving	you	greater	flexibility.	At	the	same	time,
your	cardiovascular	system	eventually	comes	to	supply	blood	and
oxygen	more	efficiently,	giving	you	greater	endurance.
How	fit	you	become	depends	upon	your	inherited	physical
capabilities,	how	much	time	you	spend	training,	how	far	your
enthusiasm	carries	you,	and	what	your	goals	are.	For	example,	you
might	set	one	or	more	of	these	goals	for	yourself:
Distance:
1	mile
Speed:
50	yards	in	1	minute
Weight	Loss:
10	pounds
Skills:
learn	the	butterfly;	master	the	crawl
Competition:
win	one	50-yard	race
Appearance:
lose	1	inch	off	hips;	firm	up	thighs	and	chest
W
HY
	F
OLLOW	A
	W
ORKOUT?
A	swimming	workout	is	a	specific	length	of	time	(for	most	swimmers
from	one	half	to	one	hour	is	about	right)	during	which	you	develop	your
swimming	ability	and	improve	your	physical	condition.	If	you’re
interested,	a	workout	will	also	prepare	you	for	competition.	A	good
workout	does	not	mean	that	you	jump	into	the	water	and	start
swimming	as	fast	as	you	can	for	as	long	as	you	can.	For	one	thing,	that’s
dangerous;	for	another,	it’s	boring;	for	yet	another,	it	won’t	improve
your	swimming	or	your	fitness	all	that	much.	To	be	effective,	there	must
be	a	method	to	your	training.	Some	competitive	swimmers	train	under
the	watchful	eyes	of	a	swim	coach,	whose	job	it	is	to	devise	their
workouts.	By	following	the	workouts	in	this	section,	you	too	will	have
your	own	coach—on	paper.
F
OLLOWING	THE
	W
ORKOUTS
There	are	four	phases	to	the	following	fitness	program.	(I)	Beginner,	(II)
Intermediate,	(III)	Advanced,	and	(IV)	Super	(geared	toward	people	who
want	to	compete,	or	at	least	to	be	as	physically	fit	as	competitive
swimmers).
Where	you	begin	the	program	depends	on	how	fit	you	are	now	(as
indicated	by	how	far	you	can	swim	without	stopping)	and	how	many
skills	you’ve	already	mastered.	Where	you	end	is	up	to	you—if	you	want
to	be	a	competitive	swimmer,	it	should	be	phase	IV;	but	if	you	just	want
to	be	reasonably	fit,	that	would	be	the	end	of	the	Intermediate	phase.
The	program	is	progressive.	Each	phase	has	ten	workouts—along	with
tips	on	how	to	vary	them—that	are	designed	to	increase	your	fitness	and
your	skills	gradually.	Once	you’ve	found	your	level,	repeat	each	workout
at	least	three	times	before	going	on	to	the	next.	If	you	work	out:
Once
a
week:
			
Your	skills	will	improve;	your	fitness	will	improve	somewhat;	and	you	will	enjoy	the
relaxing	and	therapeutic	benefits	of	water.
Three
times
a
week:
			
You	will	also	improve	your	physical	condition,	help	to	control	your	weight,	and
improve	your	muscle	tone.	(Studies	have	shown	that	it	takes	twelve	to	twenty	weeks
working	at	a	minimum	of	three	days	per	week	to	affect	your	cardiovascular
conditioning;	alternating	days	of	training	with	rest	days	gives	your	body	time	to
recover.)
Every
day:
			
You	will	progress	even	faster	and	become	even	more	fit.	(Actually,	you	should	work	out
only	six	days	in	a	row	at	the	most,	and	give	your	body	a	rest	on	the	seventh.)	Studies
have	shown	that	during	the	first	ten	weeks	of	a	conditioning	program	the	training	effect
is	similar	whether	you	exercise	three	days	a	week	or	more;	but	after	that,	exercising
five	or	six	times	a	week	will	result	in	faster	and	greater	progress.
However	often	you	choose	to	work	out,	don’t	skip	any	level,	and	wait
until	you	feel	you’re	ready	before	you	go	on	to	the	next	stage.	Strive	for
a	balance	between	taking	it	too	easy	and	pushing	yourself	too	hard	and
too	fast.	Listen	to	your	body.	Physical	fitness,	like	Rome,	isn’t	built	in	a
day.	(See	“Watch	Out!”	below.)	After	a	workout,	you	should	feel
exhilarated	yet	pleasantly	tired.	Your	body	should	feel	more	relaxed,	yet
stronger,	more	flexible,	and	more	alive.
W
ATCH
	O
UT
!
My	program	is	a	step-by-step	progression.	Don’t	skip	any	level—in	your
enthusiasm,	you	may	be	tempted	to	overdo	it.	Be	on	the	lookout	for	any
of	these	danger	signals	that	mean	you’re	doing	too	much	too	fast.	If	any
occurs,	reduce	the	intensity,	frequency,	and/or	duration	of	your
workouts;	if	it	persists,	consult	a	physician.	Moderation	is	the	key;	heed
the	following:
Tightness	or	pain	in	your	chest/skipped	heartbeats
Severe	breathlessness
Dizziness	or	nausea
Loss	of	muscle	control
Joint	pain
Fatigue	during	the	day;	difficulty	sleeping	at	night
To	help	prevent	them,	follow	these	tips:
If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	your	physical	condition,	have	a
checkup	before	you	begin.
Maintain	a	balanced	diet.
Warm	up	thoroughly	before	the	main	set	of	your	workout,	and
cool	down	afterward.
Monitor	your	pulse	to	make	sure	you	don’t	exceed	your	target
rate.
Make	sure	you’re	comfortable	at	your	present	level	before	you
proceed	to	the	next.
Don’t	swim	when	you’re	injured,	sick,	or	very	tired.	Use	your
judgment	here—even	if	you’re	not	up	to	a	full	workout,	you
may	be	able	to	take	a	short	swim,	practice	a	few	skills,	or	do
some	water	exercises.
T
RAINING
	C
ONCEPTS
You	get	the	training	effect	when	you	overload	your	body	by	increasing
the	intensity,	frequency,	and	duration	of	your	swims.	There	are	a
number	of	ways	to	accomplish	this,	and	you	don’t	have	to	be	a
competitive	swimmer	to	use	these	tried-and-true	training	methods.	All	of
the	following	concepts	we	used	in	the	workouts	that	follow.	You	can	also
use	these	underlying	principles	to	create	your	own	workouts	or
individualize	those	on	
this	page
-
this	page
.	Depending	on	your	goals,
your	pool	facility,	and	your	mood,	you	may	choose	to	emphasize	some
over	others.	By	incorporating	them	all	into	your	swimming	program,
though,	you’re	sure	to	keep	your	workouts	interesting	and	challenging,
and	to	subject	your	body	to	different	types	of	stress.
Marathon,	or	Distance,	Swimming:
	This	is	swimming	for	a	relatively
long	distance	without	stopping	for	a	rest.	You	can	either	swim	easily
without	regard	to	the	clock,	or	time	the	swim	or	some	part	of	it.	Without
some	sort	of	timing,	though,	most	people	tend	to	take	it	too	easy	and
swim	too	slowly	(pulse	rate	remains	under	the	target	rate)	to	get	much
conditioning.	You’ll	still	burn	up	calories,	and	it’s	an	excellent	way	to
swim	if	you’re	tired.	The	term	“garbage	yardage”	is	popularly	used	to
describe	long,	easy	swims	that	aim	for	quantity	instead	of	quality.	Even
if	you	don’t	use	the	clock,	you	can	still	vary	your	pace—just	swim	parts
a	little	faster,	some	a	little	slower.	Or	you	can	try	to	pace	the	entire
swim;	this	offsets	the	tendency	to	start	too	fast,	wear	yourself	out,	and
limp	the	last	few	laps	home.	Marathon	swims	are	used	primarily	to
improve	your	endurance;	your	heart	rate	doesn’t	climb	that	high	(about
50–60	percent	of	maximum);	but	it	stays	at	that	level	for	the	duration.
Although	you	might	not	have	thought	so,	this	type	of	swim	is	often	used
as	a	warm-up	before	the	main	set.	Every	time	you	swim	marathon-style,
try	to	increase	your	distance	by	at	least	a	few	laps;	common	goals	are
400	yards/meters	(about	a	quarter	mile),	800	yards/meters	(about	half	a
mile),	or	1,600	yards/meters	(about	one	mile).	To	keep	track	of	your
marathon	swims,	enter	them	on	one	of	the	Red	Cross	50-mile	swim
charts	that	are	posted	at	many	pools.
Fartlek	Training:
	Long	a	favorite	training	technique	in	Sweden
(especially	for	running),	this	method	breaks	a	swim	into	alternating	slow
and	fast	laps.	It	not	only	makes	a	long	swim	(for	instance,	500
yards/meters	or	more)	more	interesting,	it’s	a	great	way	to	develop
speed	and	endurance	simultaneously,	because	the	slow	laps,	at	about	50
percent	of	your	maximum	heart	rate,	enable	you	to	exert	yourself	more
during	the	fast	laps,	during	which	you	swim	at	80	percent	of	your
maximum.	You	can	modify	the	Fartlek	technique	by	varying	the	number
of	laps	swum	at	each	speed.	For	instance,	you	can	swim	pyramid	style:	1
fast,	1	slow;	2	fast,	2	slow;	3	fast,	3	slow;	2	fast,	2	slow;	1	fast,	1	slow.
Make	up	your	own	patterns.
Interval	Training:
	In	this	method,	which	was	introduced	into
competitive	swimming	workouts	during	the	1940s,	you	do	a	series	of
repeat	swims	of	the	same	distance,	each	within	a	specified	length	of
time.	The	amount	of	rest	you	have	after	each	swim	is	determined	by	how
fast	you	go.	For	instance,	if	the	
interval	set
	is	four	50-yard	swims	in	1
minute	and	15	seconds	each	(4	×	50	on	1:15),	and	you	take	1	minute	to
swim	the	first	50,	you	have	15	seconds’	rest	before	beginning	the	next
50-yard	swim;	if	you	swim	the	50	yards	in	45	seconds,	you	have	30
seconds	to	rest.
Competitive	swimmers	swim	at	slower	speeds	in	a	workout	than
during	
the	actual	competiton,	but	the	intervals	are	still	pretty	fast—100s
on	1:30	is	typical	at	this	level.
TRAINING	CONCEPTS	CHART
This	chart	is	geared	mainly	to	serious	fitness	and	competitive	swimmers.	Distances,	rest
intervals,	and	target	pulse	rates	will	vary,	depending	on	the	swimmer.
This	chart	is	geared	mainly	to	serious	fitness	and	competitive	swimmers.
Distances,	rest	intervals,	and	target	pulse	rates	will	vary,	depending	on
the	swimmer.
Usually,	intervals	are	designed	to	give	swimmers	a	short	rest	period
relative	to	the	length	of	time	spent	swimming.	This	way,	you	don’t	allow
the	heart	rate	to	drop	too	much,	but	the	short	rest	lets	you	push	yourself
harder	during	each	swim,	which	results	in	greater	cardiovascular
benefits.	Interval	swimming,	therefore,	is	the	best	all-round	training
method	for	developing	speed	and	endurance.	This	method	should	get
your	heart	rate	up	to	approximately	70	percent	of	your	maximum	during
the	swim,	and	the	rest	period	should	be	short	enough	so	that	your	heart
rate	doesn’t	recover	all	the	way	down	to	your	resting	rate.	Intervals	are
widely	used	as	part	or	all	of	the	main	set	of	a	workout.
It’s	easiest	if	you	begin	each	interval	set	on	the	60-second	mark:	if	the
interval	were	1	minute	(1:00),	you	would	begin	the	second	swim	when
the	second	hand	hit	the	60-second	mark.	If	the	interval	were	on	1:15,
you	would	begin	the	first	swim	on	the	60-second	mark,	the	second	on
the	15-second	mark,	the	third	on	the	30-second	mark,	and	so	on.
(Another	type	of	interval	training	may	be	used,	too,	in	which	the	amount
of	rest	is	held	constant—say,	10	seconds	after	each	50	yards/meters—
regardless	of	the	time	it	takes	you	to	do	each	swim.)
Repetition,	or	Repeat,	Training:
	These	are	sets	of	swims	of	the	same
distance	done	at	close	to	maximum	effort	(up	to	90	percent	of	your
maximum	heart	rate),	but	with	a	long	rest	period	after	each	swim
(usually	equal	to	the	swimming	time)	that	allows	the	heart	rate	to	come
back	down	to	nearly	normal.	This	type	of	swimming	develops	your	speed
and	anaerobic	capacity	(the	ability	to	work	at	intense	levels,	by	using
stored	oxygen,	for	moderate	periods	of	time);	since	it	is	fatiguing,	this
method	is	used	sparingly,	usually	to	prepare	competitive	swimmers	for
peak	performances,	and	only	after	a	thorough	warm-up.
Sprints:
	These	are	short,	fast	swims	done	at	maximum	speed	(up	to
100	percent	effort)	to	simulate	the	conditions	of	a	race.	The	amount	of
rest	is	usually	very	long,	and	allows	the	heart	rate	to	approach	the
resting	rate.	Because	of	the	increased	resistance	encountered	while
moving	faster,	sprinting	gives	you	more	muscle	power	and	strength	than
endurance;	like	repetition	swimming,	it	also	improves	your	anaerobic
capacity.
C
OMPONENTS	OF	A
	W
ORKOUT
All	of	the	workouts	are	composed	of	three	parts:	the	warm-up,	the	main
set,	and	the	cool-down.
Warm-up:
	Swimming	strenuously	without	being	properly	prepared
results	in	discomfort,	a	poor	performance,	and	possibly	injury.	So	initiate
each	workout	with	a	warm-up,	which	increases	your	body	temperature
slightly,	gets	the	blood	flowing	to	where	it	will	be	needed,	and	begins	to
raise	your	heart	rate.	Usually	you	should	do	some	sort	of	warm-up	on
land:	for	example,	light	calisthenics	such	as	those	suggested	in
“Swimmers’	Shape-ups,”	
this	page
.	(Many	of	these	exercises	may	also	be
done	in	shallow	water,	if	you	prefer.)	If	you	have	the	time	and
inclination,	you	may	choose	to	do	some	more	serious	activity,	such	as
working	out	with	resistance	devices	(freeweights,	stretch	cords,	or
Nautilus	or	Universal	weight	machines)	or	some	light	jogging,	before	a
swim.
Regardless	of	what	you	do	on	land,	there’s	always	a	water	warm-up	of
some	sort—when	you	just	swim	in	an	easy,	relaxed	manner.	This	not
only	raises	your	body	temperature,	it	also	gets	you	in	“the	groove”	for
swimming,	the	way	pitchers	throw	a	few	practice	balls,	tennis	players
rally,	and	singers	practice	the	scale	before	plunging	into	the	real	thing.
To	make	the	warm-up	interesting,	you	can,	for	example,	break	it	up	into
several	pull,	kick,	swim	sets.	The	point	is	to	ease	the	body	into	the	main
set	of	the	workout.	The	warm-up	should	take	at	least	five	minutes,	or
about	20	percent	of	the	total	workout	time	or	distance,	whichever	is
greater.
Main	Set:
	This	is	usually	a	swimming	set	(meaning	that	you	use	your
arms	and	legs	together),	and	should	be	the	most	demanding	part	of	the
workout.	Most	main	sets	consist	of	one	long	set	or	several	subsets	with
short	breaks	between.	Advanced	swimmers	might	do	these	against	the
clock	(interval	or	repetition	swims)	to	get	their	heart	rate	up	to	70
percent	of	their	maximum.	Sometimes	a	main	set	consists	of	a	marathon
swim;	in	this	case	the	heart	rate	doesn’t	get	all	the	way	up	to	70	percent,
but	you	improve	your	endurance.	The	duration	of	the	main	set	will	vary
according	to	the	overall	workout,	but,	in	general,	it	is	at	least	50	percent
of	the	total	time/distance.
Cool-down:
	This	consists	of	a	few	laps	at	the	end	of	the	workout	to
relax	and	loosen	the	body.	It’s	also	a	way	of	letting	your	heart	rate
return	
gradually	to	your	resting	rate.	A	cool-down	is	about	10	percent	of
the	total	workout,	or	about	half	the	distance	of	the	warm-up.	You	might
want	to	add	a	post-cool-down	on	land.	This	should	consist	of	gentle
static	stretches	to	keep	your	muscles	loose.	(See	“Swimmers’	Shape-ups,”
this	page
,	for	suggestions.)
HEART-RATE	PATTERN	DURING	A	TYPICAL	SWIMMING	WORKOUT
Transitions:
	At	higher	levels,	where	you	are	swimming	longer
distances,	some	coaches	add	two	transitional	stages	to	the	workout.
When	used,	each	transition	accounts	for	about	10	percent	of	the	total
workout.	The	first	comes	between	the	warm-up	and	the	main	set,	and
often	consists	of	pulling	in	a	descending	fashion.	For	example,	you	might
do	5	×	50	(50	yards/meters	five	times),	where	each	50	is	pulled	faster
than	the	previous	one.	In	this	way,	by	the	end	of	the	pulling	set	you
have	gradually	brought	your	heart	rate	up	to	70	percent	of	maximum
(the	target	rate),	thus	completing	the	warm-up	process	and	setting
yourself	up	for	the	more	strenuous	work	of	the	main	set.
The	second	transition	comes	between	the	main	set	and	the	cool-down.
This	transitional	phase	should	be	less	demanding	than	the	main	set,	both
psychologically	and	physiologically.	It	usually	consists	of	a	kicking	set.
After	the	main	set,	your	arms	are	probably	tired,	but	there	should	still	be
plenty	of	energy	in	your	legs.	Occasionally,	the	end	of	a	workout	can
include	something	challenging,	like	a	timed	sprint.	This	sprint	shouldn’t
be	done	every	day,	though:	if	it	becomes	a	habit	it	will	get	boring,	and
besides,	your	body	needs	time	to	recover.	When	done,	it	should	be
followed	by	a	few	easy	laps.
W
ORKOUT
	T
ERMS
As	you	progress	from	phase	to	phase,	you’ll	also	begin	to	learn	a	new
language—the	language	of	swimming.	Like	all	sports,	swimming	has	its
special	terms	and	verbal	shortcuts.	Here	are	a	few	to	get	you	started.
Distance	Notation:
	The	first	new	terminology	you’ll	need	in	the
workouts	is	the	most	basic:	how	distances	are	indicated.	For	instance:
1	×	50	means	swim	50	yards	or	meters	1	time
2	×	50	means	swim	50	yards	or	meters	2	times	(with	a	rest	after
each	50)
1	×	100	means	swim	100	yards	or	meters
Pulling
,	or	using	the	arm	motion	without	kicking,	helps	you	learn	or
practice	a	stroke	and	to	build	upper	body	strength.	Pulling	drills	are
good	for	your	warm-up.	Mixed	with	kicking	and	swimming	laps,	they
can	add	variety	to	your	main	set,	too.	During	pulling	drills,	you	can	use
training	devices	such	as	pull-buoys	to	help	support	your	lower	body,	or
hand	paddles	and/or	“donuts”	to	improve	your	technique	and	to
increase	the	resistance.
Kicking
	means	using	only	the	leg	motion	of	a	stroke.	Recently	there’s
been	some	debate	as	to	how	much	of	it	should	be	done	and	where	in	the
workout	it	should	come.	On	the	one	hand,	the	arms—not	the	kicking—
should	generate	most	of	the	power	of	the	stroke.	On	the	other	hand,	it’s
important	to	practice	your	kicking,	since	it’s	central	to	the	stability,
timing,	and	coordination	of	your	stroke,	and	to	the	development	of	your
stomach	and	chest	muscles,	and	your	legs.	Since	the	legs	contain	large
muscles,	they	require	a	great	deal	of	oxygen;	therefore,	kicking	hard
during	a	workout	helps	to	improve	your	cardiovascular	efficiency.	So
kicking	
is
	important,	but	more	so	in	training	than	when	you’re
swimming	normally.	Also,	kicking	is	often	used	as	a	transitional	set
between	the	main	set	and	the	cool-down.	You	can	do	kicking	drills	and
use	training	devices	such	as	swim	fins	and	kickboards	to	help	you	learn
or	improve	a	kick,	or	increase	in	strength	and	power.
Pull-Kick-Swim	Set:
	Here	you	pull	the	first	lap,	kick	the	next	lap,
swim	(use	arms	and	legs	together)	for	the	last	lap.	By	isolating	each
component	first,	you	refine	and	improve	the	whole	stroke.
Controlled	Breathing:
	As	you	improve	your	cardiovascular	fitness	you
may	need	to	take	fewer	breaths	as	you	swim	the	freestyle.	In	the
freestyle,	inhaling	on	every	third	pull	is	called	bilateral	breathing.	By
breathing	on	both	sides	and	by	taking	fewer	breaths	you	may	improve
the	efficiency	of	your	strokes.
When	you	take	fewer	breaths	as	you	swim,	you	increase	your	body’s
ability	to	function	efficiently	with	less	oxygen.	By	training	your	body	to
do	more	with	less,	you	increase	your	cardiovascular	fitness	and	your
ability	to	get	a	“second	wind.”	In	the	freestyle,	controlled	breathing	is
usually	introduced	by	inhaling	on	every	third	pull	(
bilateral	breathing
)]
eventually	you	can	work	your	way	up	to	swimming	an	entire	lap	without
inhaling.
Broken	Swims:
	These	are	timed	swims	that	are	interrupted	by	short
rests	of	a	specified	length	(e.g.,	ten	seconds).	After	completing	the	entire
swim,	you	subtract	the	total	resting	time	from	the	final	time	to
determine	your	swim	time.
Build-ups:
	In	this	training	technique,	you	begin	each	lap	slowly	and
gradually	build	up	speed	as	you	reach	the	wall.	This	allows	you	to
establish	your	technique	and	maintain	it	as	you	build	up	speed.
Crescendo	Set:
	This	is	several	swims	of	regularly	increasing	distances
(for	example:	1	×	25,	1	×	50,	1	×	75).
Pyramid	Set:
	This	is	several	swims	of	regularly	increasing,	then
regularly	decreasing,	distances.	(For	example,	1	×	25,	1	×	50,	1	×	75,
1	×	50,	1	×	25.)	This	is	also	known	as	an	ascending/descending	set.
Stroke	Counting:
	Here	you	count	the	number	of	strokes	needed	to
complete	a	certain	distance	(usually	one	lap,	or	25	yards/meters),	then
try	to	lower	the	count	the	next	time	you	swim	it	(while	maintaining	your
speed).	Do	a	stroke	count	periodically	to	check	your	improving
efficiency	and	power.
Paced	Swims:
	Try	this	so	that	you	don’t	go	all	out	during	the	first	half
of	your	swim	and	fade	out	toward	the	end.	By	timing	yourself	for	both
halves	of	a	swim,	and	approximating	the	same	time	for	each,	you	get	a
feel	for	pacing	yourself.	This	is	known	as	
even	splitting
.	If	the	second	half
is	faster	than	the	first,	it’s	called	
negative	splitting;
	you	can	do	this	by
concentrating	on	your	pulling	in	the	beginning	and	gradually	increasing
the	intensity	of	your	kicking.	You	can	apply	this	principle	to	all	swims
100	yards/meters	and	longer.	Pacing	yourself	also	gets	you	accustomed
to	reading	the	clock	while	you	swim	and	thus	prepares	you	for	interval
swimming.
Pulse	Rates	and	Pulse	Check:
	Checking	your	pulse	immediately	after	a
main	set	or	timed	swim	is	one	way	of	determining	whether	you’re
overdoing	it	or	not	doing	enough.	It	will	eventually	be	a	way	of
measuring	your	progress,	because	the	lower	your	resting	rate	the	more
efficient	your	cardiovascular	system.
To	take	your	pulse,	press	the	inside	of	your	wrist	firmly	with	the
fingertips	of	the	other	hand.	(Using	the	thumb	will	not	give	you	an
accurate	reading,	because	it	has	its	own	pulse.)	Or	feel	for	your	pulse	on
your	throat,	just	below	the	angle	of	the	jaw.	Count	the	beats	for	6
seconds;	then	add	a	0	to	the	end	to	give	you	the	per-minute	rate.
First	take	your	
resting	rate
,	which	is	best	done	in	the	morning	before
you’ve	exercised	or	drunk	any	coffee	(caffeine	stimulates	the	heart	and
would	influence	the	reading).	Write	it	down	somewhere	(perhaps	in	the
spaces	allocated	in	the	workouts,	or	in	your	Swimmers’	Log).	The
average	resting	rate	is	72	beats	per	minute,	but	athletes’	pulse	rates	are
often	lower.
Next,	calculate	your	
maximum	heart	rate
	(
MHR
).	To	approximate	this,
subtract	your	age	from	a	base	of	220.	Therefore,	if	you	are	thirty-five
years	old,	your	MHR	will	be	about	185.	The	next	figure	to	be	concerned
with	is	your	
target	rate
	(
TR
).	To	calculate	your	TR,	multiply	your	MHR
by	
approximately	70	percent.	So,	if	your	MHR	is	185,	your	TR	would	be
about	130.	To	improve	your	cardiovascular	capacity,	your	heart	rate
should	average	your	TR	during	the	main	set	of	your	workout.
Be	aware	that,	as	you	train	and	improve	your	cardiovascular
conditioning,	it	will	take	more	effort	(i.e.,	you’ll	have	to	swim	faster)	to
obtain	your	target	heart	rate.
Recent	research	indicates	that	your	heart	rate	may	be	lower	in	the
water	compared	to	exercising	on	land	by	10	to	15	percent.
Timed	Swim	and	Pulse	Check:
	For	this,	you	time	yourself	as	you	swim
a	particular	distance,	comparing	your	performance	to	your	previous
times.	Afterward,	you	check	your	pulse	rate	to	see	if	you	have
approached	your	70	percent	target	rate	(usually	you	do	this	by
swimming	fast,	but	not	“all	out”—the	latter	would	elevate	your	pulse	to
100	percent	of	its	maximum	rate,	which	is	rarely	desirable).	A	timed
swim	in	conjunction	with	a	pulse	check	gives	you	a	feel	for	what
working	at	this	level	of	effort	is	like.	You	also	get	accustomed	to
referring	to	the	clock,	which	will	figure	into	your	workouts	more	and
more	as	you	progress.	(All	swims,	except	for	warm-ups,	cool-downs,	and
other	specified	easy	swims,	should	be	done	at	an	average	of	about	70
percent	effort.)	You	can	do	a	timed	swim	(with	or	without	a	pulse	check
afterward)	during	any	workout;	it	should	be	near	the	end	of	the	main	set
so	that	you’re	nicely	warmed	up	for	a	fast	swim.	Timing	yourself	lets	you
see	the	progress	you’re	making,	makes	the	workout	more	interesting,
and	helps	you	determine	your	time	interval	for	interval	swims.
V
ARIETY
	I
S	THE
	S
PICE	OF
	S
WIMMING
,	T
OO
The	workouts	will	improve	your	fitness	gradually	and	safely.	But	won’t
just	swimming	a	little	farther	each	time	do	that?	Yes,	but	that	would	be
boring.
In	these	workouts,	on	the	other	hand,	you’ll	be	doing	a	variety	of
strokes;	you	will	alternately	swim	(use	your	arms	and	legs	together),	pull
(use	only	your	arms),	and	kick	(use	only	the	legs);	you’ll	swim	varying
distances;	in	addition,	you’ll	be	using	different	pieces	of	equipment.	All
this	adds	up	to	a	tremendous	variety.	And	as	you	progress	you	can	swim
against	the	clock	(intervals,	repeats,	sprints,	paced	swims)	to	make
things	even	more	interesting.
The	workouts	on	the	following	pages	do	this,	and	more:	they	are	also
learning	workouts	during	which	you	may	add	to	your	repertoire	of	skills.
(If	you’re	not	up	to	learning	a	new	skill,	substitute	practicing	something
you	do	know	and	want	to	improve	in	order	to	get	the	same	amount	of
working	out.)	But	if	you	want	to	learn	something	new,	it’s	there	for	you
to	take	advantage	of,	presented	in	a	logical	sequence	and	in	the	context
of	a	workout	that	contains	other	related	skills	to	make	learning	easier
and	more	understandable.
R
EMEMBERING	THE
	W
ORKOUTS
The	more	involved	you	become	in	swimming,	the	more	you’ll	realize
that	it’s	a	mental	as	well	as	physical	discipline.	Swim	teams	are	lucky
enough	to	have	a	coach	telling	(yelling	at!)	them	exactly	what	to	do	for
every	phase	of	their	workout—and,	in	addition,	the	day’s	workout	may
be	written	on	a	large	blackboard	near	the	pool.	For	those	of	you	who	are
following	these	workouts	solo,	it’s	a	different	story:	you	don’t	have
anyone	to	rely	on	except	yourself.
The	simplest	solution	is	to	memorize	the	workout.	To	do	this,	read	it
over	several	times	before	you	go	to	the	pool.	Go	over	every	one	of	the
exercises,	drills,	and	swims	in	your	head.	The	purpose	here	is	to
remember	the	workout.	If	any	new	skills	are	involved,	be	sure	to
practice	them	on	dry	land	first	so	that	by	the	time	you	get	to	the	water
you’re	pretty	well	familiar	with	them.
If	you	have	a	swimming	buddy,	you	can	help	each	other	to	remember.
If	memorizing	the	workouts	doesn’t	come	easily	to	you,	there	are
several	alternatives.	First,	you	could	enclose	the	entire	book	in	plastic
and	take	it	to	the	pool	with	you.	(The	clear	zip-up	bags	used	to	store
food	are	ideal	for	this.)
Better	yet,	you	could	rewrite	the	day’s	workout	on	a	small	piece	of
paper.	Use	a	heavy	pencil	or	a	ballpoint	pen	and,	at	the	pool,	dip	the
paper	into	the	water	and	slap	it	either	onto	the	wall	just	above	the	water
line	or	on	the	deck.	(Wetting	it	keeps	the	paper	from	flying	away,	and
the	ink	doesn’t	run	as	much	as	you’d	expect.)
Or	you	could	write	each	workout	on	an	index	card,	then,	for	instant
waterproofing,	simply	return	the	card	to	the	plastic	wrapper	that	the
pack	came	in.	You	could	also	make	each	workout	waterproof	by
encasing	the	card	in	transparent	plastic	with	a	self-stick,	peel-off
backing.	A	fringe	benefit	of	this	method	is	that	you’ll	end	up	with	your
own	set	of	permanent	workout	cards	that	you	can	take	with	you
anywhere.
W
ORKOUT
	T
IPS	AND
	R
EMINDERS
If	the	specified	distances	for	the	continuous	swims	are	too	long
for	you	at	first,	swim	as	far	as	you	can,	gradually	increasing	the
distance	each	time	you	do	the	workout	until	you	can	swim	the
specified	distance	without	stopping.
If	you	find	that	the	specified	rests	are	more	than	you	need,
decrease	them	accordingly.
Try	to	swim	at	least	three	times	a	week,	and	repeat	each
workout	at	least	three	times,	preferably	every	other	day,	before
progressing	to	the	next	level.	If	you	begin	a	new	workout	every
week,	it	will	take	you	approximately	two	and	a	half	to	three
months	to	complete	each	phase	of	your	fitness	program	and	to
advance	to	the	next	phase.	At	that	rate,	if	you	start	the	program
as	a	Beginner,	by	the	end	of	about	a	year	you	will	have
progressed	through	the	Super	Swimmer	phase.
To	learn	or	refine	a	new	skill,	practice	the	motions	on	dry	land
before	you	get	to	the	pool	(they’re	explained	in	“The
Techniques	of	Swimming,”	
this	page
.	And	once	you’ve	learned
them,	you	should	generally	incorporate	them	into	your
swimming	from	then	on.	For	instance,	once	you’ve	learned	the
S-pattern	crawl	stroke,	the	body	roll,	or	the	flip	turn,	use	them
whenever	you	swim.
Use	the	different	training	concepts	to	create	your	own	workouts
and	to	add	variety	to	your	swims.	For	instance,	use	Fartlek
training	during	a	long	swim;	or	do	a	pull-kick-swim	series
instead	of	just	swimming;	or	time	yourself;	or	do	a	stroke	count
periodically.
If	you’re	swimming	every	day,	try	to	avoid	doing	the	same	kind
of	workout.	For	example,	about	twice	a	week	concentrate	on
practicing	skills	and	techniques	that	you	know	need
improvement.	(Refer	to	the	checklists	and	the	catalog	of
common	errors	found	in	“The	Techniques	of	Swimming”	and	do
the	suggested	drills.)	On	other	days,	go	for	quantity	as	well	as
quality.
If	you	like,	record	your	workouts	in	the	Workout	Log	on	
this
page
—especially	if	you’re	doing	workouts	in	addition	to	those
in	this	book.
Record	your	times	in	the	Timed	Swim	Log	on	
this	page
.
P
HASE	I
BEGINNERS’	WORKOUTS
W
HO’S	A
	B
EGINNER?
You’re	a	Beginner	swimmer	if	you:
Can	swim	10–25	yards/meters	without	stopping	and	using	any
combination	of	strokes.
Know	at	least	“The	Fundamentals	of	Swimming”	taught	in	Part
One	of	this	book	(crawl	stroke,	elementary	and	windmill
backstrokes,	treading,	sculling,	sitting	and	kneeling	dives).
If	you	are	a	more	advanced	swimmer,	you	can	still	use	these	workouts
when,	for	some	reason,	you	can’t	follow	your	regular	workout.
B
EGINNER
	S
KILLS	AND
	T
ERMS
The	crawl	stroke	term	is	used	starting	in	the	Beginners’	workout.	With
each	progressive	workout	and	phase,	you	will	be	refining	these
techniques.	This	refined	crawl	stroke	is	popularly	termed	“freestyle”	and
therefore	the	terms	“crawl”	and	“freestyle”	are	often	interchangeable.
In	these	workouts	you’ll	practice	the	following	skills	(explained	in
“The	Techniques	of	Swimming”)	and	use	the	following	terms	(explained
in	“Workout	Terms,”	
this	page
):
S-pattern	crawl/freestyle	arm	motion
Windmill	backstroke	body	roll
Sidestroke
Breaststroke
Open	turns	for	crawl	and	backstroke
Crescendo	set
Your	level	of	fitness	will	improve	with	each	workout:
You’ll	be	swimming	longer	and	longer	distances	without
stopping	(from	25	yards/meters	in	Level	1	to	75	yards/meters
in	Level	10).
You’ll	get	gradually	less	rest	between	swims	(from	one	minute
in	Level	1	down	to	30	seconds).
You’ll	be	swimming	longer	total	distances	(from	100
yards/meters	in	Level	1	to	300	yards/meters	in	Level	10).
Each	workout	begins	at	the	shallow	end	of	the	pool	and	lasts	about	30
minutes,	depending	on	how	fast	you	swim.	About	half	the	workout	time
is	devoted	to	the	warm-up	and	cool-down	combined,	and	half	to	the
main	set,	which	is	the	most	strenuous.	The	warm-up	is	about	10
minutes,	the	main	set	is	about	15	minutes,	and	the	cool-down	is	5
minutes.	The	warm-ups	usually	include	some	Swimmers’	Shape-ups	(see
this	page
),	which	may	be	done	on	dry	land	or	in	the	shallow	end	of	the
pool;	it	also	includes	shallow-water	practice	of	any	skills	highlighted	in
the	workout.	The	cool-down	also	usually	includes	a	few	Swimmers’
Shape-ups,	which	may	be	done	in	the	shallow	end	of	the	pool	or	on	dry
land.
S
PECIAL
	T
IPS	FOR
	B
EGINNING
	S
WIMMERS
Notice	that	when	a	specific	stroke	is	highlighted	the	total
distance	swum	doesn’t	increase.	The	distance	is	held	steady	so
you	can	devote	your	energies	toward	learning	and	practicing
the	new	skill.
Ideal	pool	size	is	20	or	25	yards/meters.	If	the	length	differs
much,	alter	the	workouts	accordingly.	First,	find	out	how	long
the	pool	is	by	checking	the	pool	markers	(or	ask	the	lifeguard,
pool	manager,	or	other	swimmer).	Otherwise,	the	handiest	way
to	approximate	the	length	is	by	pacing	it	off;	walk	the	length,
placing	one	foot	directly	in	front	of	the	other,	and	count	each
pace	as	one	foot.	Then	
divide	the	number	by	three	to	get	the
approximate	yardage.	Once	you	have	the	yardage,	adjust	the
workouts	accordingly.	For	instance,	if	the	pool	is	15	yards	long,
you	can	just	double	the	number	of	laps:	for	a	25-yard	swim,	do
two	laps,	or	30	yards.	If	it’s	a	much	longer	pool,	determine	the
25-yard	mark	and	stop	there	to	rest	before	resuming	the
workout.
If	there’s	no	clock	with	a	second	hand,	or	you	don’t	have	a
waterproof	wristwatch	you	can	approximate	your	rest	times	by
counting	off	the	seconds	in	your	head.
T
O
	V
ARY	THE
	W
ORKOUTS
If	you	choose	to	stay	at	the	Beginner	level,	or	to	take	longer	to
progress	to	the	Intermediate	phase,	you’ll	be	repeating	each	workout
more	than	three	times.	In	order	to	add	more	variety	to	them:
Begin	to	use	some	of	the	equipment	described	in	that	level.
Choose	different	Swimmers’	Shake-ups	(see	
this	page
)	for
warm-ups	and	cool-downs.
Add	more	distance	to	the	main	set	(but	not	to	exceed	a	total	of
forty-five	minutes	in	the	water).	You	might	even	repeat	the
entire	main	set.
Change	the	pace	over	the	course	of	the	workout.	Each	workout
lasts	approximately	twenty-five	to	thirty	minutes.	Leave	the
warm-up	and	cool-down	intact,	but	vary	your	speed	during	the
main	set;	take	longer	or	shorter	rests	between	laps.
Stress	the	skills	that	you	need	to	brush	up	on.	Ask	a	friend	to
help	you	check	your	form.	Don’t	hesitate	to	go	back	and	repeat
an	earlier	workout	in	order	to	review	certain	skills.
Try	to	increase	the	amount	of	continuous	swimming	you	do.
Aim	for	300	consecutive	yards/meters	for	each	stroke	that	you
know.
If	you	get	really	itchy	for	a	change,	it’s	a	definite	sign	that	you
are	ready	to	go	on	to	the	Intermediate	phase,	which	will	add	to
your	skills	and	improve	your	fitness	even	more.
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	1
Highlights:
	Reviewing	the	fundamentals	of	swimming	(sculling,
treading,	crawl	stroke,	elementary	backstroke,	and	sitting	dive)	in	the
form	of	a	workout	
Total	Distance:
	100	yards/meters
Warm-up
5	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
1	minute	each:	bobbing:	with	breathing
supine	flutter	kick:	on	wall
prone	flutter	kick:	on	wall
rhythmic	breathing:	on	wall
Main	Set	(1	minute	rest	after	each)
1	×	25	crawl	stroke
1	minute	bobbing:	with	breathing
1	×	25	crawl	stroke
1	minute	bobbing:	with	breathing
1	×	25	sculling
1	×	25	elementary	backstroke
Cool-down
1	minute	treading	in	place:	rest	when	needed
3	×	push-off	into	prone	glide
3	×	sitting	dive
1	minute	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	2
Highlights:
	S-pattern	crawl	stroke	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
	100
yards/meters
Warm-up
Skill	practice:	catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke	on	land	3	minutes
Swimmers’	Shape-ups
1	minute	each:	bobbing:	with	breathing
catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	standing	in	place	in	shallow	water
catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	walking	with	head	up	(two	pool	widths
or	about	25	yards/meters)
catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	walking	with	rhythmic	breathing	(two
pool	widths	or	about	25	yards/meters)
Main	Set	(1	minute	rest	after	each)
1	×	25	catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	with	flutter	kicking	1	×	25
elementary	backstroke:	with	flutter	kicking	10	cycles	catch-up	S-
pattern	crawl	stroke:	standing	in	place	in	shallow	water	1	×	25	S-
pattern	crawl	stroke:	with	flutter	kicking	(no	catch-up)	1	×	25
sculling:	with	flutter	kicking
Cool-down
1	minute	each:	bobbing:	with	breathing
catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	walking	with	rhythmic	breathing
treading:	in	place
Push-up	exit	from	pool
1	minute	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	3
Highlights:
	Crawl-stroke	open	turn	(see	
this	page
);	swimming	the
crawl	stroke	continuously	for	50	yards/meters	
Total	Distance:
	150
yards/meters
Warm-up
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
1	minute	each:	catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	on	land
prone	flutter	kicking:	on	wall
catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	standing	in	place	in	shallow	water
open	crawl	turn:	walking	toward	wall	in	shallow	water	(alternate	contact
arms)
catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	walking	with	rhythmic	breathing	(two
pool	widths	or	about	25	yards/meters)
Main	Set	(1	minute	rest	after	each)
1	×	50	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	with	flutter	kicking,	using	open	turn	1
×	25	sculling:	with	flutter	kicking
½	minute	treading:	in	deep	water	(with	or	without	assistance)	1	×	25
elementary	backstroke
1	×	50	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	with	flutter	kicking,	using	open	turn
(other	hand,	if	possible)
Cool-down
1	minute	open	crawl	turn:	walking	toward	wall	in	shallow	water
(alternate	contact	arms)	½	minute	treading
Push-up	exit	from	pool
3	×	sitting	dive/push-up	exit
1	minute	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	4
Highlights:
	Windmill	backstroke	body	roll	(see	
this	page
)	
Total
Distance:
	150	yards/meters
Warm-up
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups	for	arms	and	shoulders	1	minute
each:	bobbing:	with	breathing
supine	flutter	kick:	on	wall,	or	with	kickboard	across	width
catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	walking	with	rhythmic	breathing	(two
pool	widths	or	25	yards/meters)	using	open	turn
windmill	backstroke:	standing	in	place	with	body	roll
windmill	backstroke:	with	body	roll,	walking	backward	in	shoulder-deep
water	(two	pool	widths	or	25	yards/meters)
Main	Set	(1	minute	rest	after	each)
1	×	25	sculling	or	elementary	backstroke:	with	flutter	kicking	½
minute	treading:	in	deep	water	(with	or	without	assistance)	1	×	25
windmill	backstroke:	with	body	roll	and	flutter	kicking	1	×	50	S-
pattern	crawl	stroke:	with	flutter	kicking,	using	open	turn	1	×	25
windmill	backstroke:	with	body	roll	and	flutter	kicking	½	minute
pattern	crawl	stroke:	with	flutter	kicking,	using	open	turn	1	×	25
windmill	backstroke:	with	body	roll	and	flutter	kicking	½	minute
treading:	in	deep	water	(with	or	without	assistance)	1	×	25
windmill	backstroke:	with	body	roll	and	flutter	kicking
Cool-down
1	minute	each:	treading,	alternating	with	prone	float	rest
windmill	backstroke:	standing	in	place	with	body	roll
windmill	backstroke:	with	body	roll,	walking	backward	in	shoulder-deep
water	(two	pool	widths	or	25	yards/meters)
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	arm	and	shoulder	stretches
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	5
Highlights:
	Backstroke	open	turn	(see	
this	page
);	swimming	the
backstroke	continuously	for	50	yards/meters	
Total	Distance:
	150
yards/meters
Warm-up
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
1	minute	each:	catch-up	windmill	backstroke:	on	land	or	in	place	in
shoulder-deep	water
backstroke	open	turn:	walking	toward	wall	in	shallow	water	(alternate
contact	arms)
bobbing:	with	breathing
supine	flutter	kick:	on	wall
backstroke	open	turn:	walking	toward	wall	in	shallow	water	(alternate
contact	arms)
contact	arms)
Main	Set
	
(
½
	
minute	rest	after	each)
1	×	50	windmill	backstroke:	with	flutter	kicking,	using	open	turn	1	×
25	elementary	backstroke
½	minute	treading:	in	deep	water	(with	or	without	assistance)	1	×	25
S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	with	flutter	kicking	½	minute	treading
1	×	50	windmill	backstroke:	with	flutter	kicking,	using	open	turn
Cool-down
1	minute	each:	backstroke	open	turn:	walking	toward	wall	in	shallow
water
sculling:	alternating	with	treading
whip	kick:	in	supine	position	on	wall	or	with	kickboard
push-up	exit	from	pool
2	×	sitting	dive/push-up	exit
2	×	kneeling	dive/push-up	exit
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	6
Highlights:
	Swimming	the	crawl	and	backstroke	continuously	for	50
yards/meters	
Total	Distance:
	200	yards/meters
Warm-up
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
1	minute	each:	bobbing:	with	breathing
prone	flutter	kicking:	on	wall	with	rhythmic	breathing
S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	in	shoulder-deep	water,	using	open	turn	(two	pool
widths	or	about	25	yards/meters)
windmill	backstroke:	in	shoulder-deep	water,	using	open	turn	(two	pool
widths	or	about	25	yards/meters)
push-up	exit	from	pool
Main	Set	(1	minute	rest	after	each	50;	1	minute	treading	after	each	25)
1	×	50	continuous	swim:	sitting	dive,	1	×	25	crawl,	open	turn,	1	×
25	windmill	backstroke	1	×	25	elementary	backstroke
1	×	25	crawl
1	×	25	sculling:	with	flutter	kicking
1	×	25	elementary	backstroke
Push-up	exit
1	×	50	continuous	swim:	kneeling	dive,	1	×	25	crawl,	open	turn,	1	×
25	windmill	backstroke
Cool-down
1	minute	each:	whip	kick:	on	wall	in	supine	position
whip	kick:	on	wall	in	prone	position
prone	flutter	kick:	on	wall
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	7
Highlights:
	The	breaststroke	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
	200
yards/meters
Warm-up
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	arm	and	shoulder	exercises	1	minute
each:	breaststroke	arm	motion:	on	land
combined	breaststroke	arm	and	leg	motions:	on	land
bobbing:	with	breathing
whip	kick:	in	prone	position,	on	wall	or	with	kickboard
breaststroke	arm	motion:	while	standing	in	place	in	shoulder-deep	water
breaststroke	arm	motion:	with	walking	and	breathing	(two	pool	widths	or
about	25	yards/meters)
combined	breaststroke	arm	and	leg	motions:	sitting	or	standing
Main	Set
	
(
½
	
minute	rest	after	each	50	and	25)
1	×	50	continuous	swim:	backstroke,	open	turn,	crawl	1	×	25
breaststroke	pull:	(kicking	and	equipment	optional)	½	minute	whip
kick:	in	prone	position	on	wall
1	×	25	breaststroke	swim:	(arm	and	legs	combined)	Push-up	exit	1	×
50	continuous	swim:	kneeling	dive,	crawl,	open	turn,	elementary
backstroke	with	whip	kick	1	×	25	breaststroke	swim
½	minute	treading
1	×	25	breaststroke	swim
Cool-down
1	minute	each:	whip	kick:	on	wall	in	supine	position
combined	breaststroke	arm	and	leg	motion:	standing	in	place
whip	kick:	on	wall	in	prone	position
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	8
Highlights:
	Breaststroke,	crawl	stroke,	open	turns,	backstroke,
treading,	and	diving	
Total	Distance:
	250	yards/meters
Warm-up
5	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
1	minute	breaststroke	arm	motion:	with	coordinated	breathing,
standing	in	shoulder-deep	water	½	minute	each:	bobbing:	with
breathing
whip	kick:	in	supine	position,	on	wall	or	with	kickboard
breaststroke	arm	motion:	with	coordinated	breathing	walking	in	shoulder-
deep	water
combined	breaststroke	arm	and	leg	motions:	standing	in	place
Main	Set
	
(
½
	
minute	rest	after	each	50;	1	minute	treading	after	each
25)
1	×	50	continuous	swim:	backstroke,	open	turn,	crawl	1	×	25
breaststroke
1	×	25	sculling	Push-up	exit
1	×	25	sculling	Push-up	exit
1	×	50	continuous	swim:	sitting	dive,	crawl,	open	turn,	elementary
backstroke	with	whip	kick	2	×	25	breaststroke
Push-up	exit
1	×	50	continuous	swim:	kneeling	dive,	crawl,	open	turn,	stroke	of
your	choice
Cool-down
1	minute	each:	whip	kick:	in	prone	position,	on	wall	or	with	kickboard
prone	flutter	kicking:	on	wall	or	with	kickboard
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	9
Highlights:
	The	sidestroke	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
	250
yards/meters
Warm-up
1	minute	each:	regular	sidestroke	arm	motion:	(each	side)	on	land
sidestroke	overarm	variation:	(each	side)	on	land
scissors	kick:	(each	side)	on	land
bobbing:	with	breathing
scissors	kick:	on	wall	or	with	kickboard	(each	side)
regular	sidestroke	arm	motion:	while	walking	across	pool	width	or
swimming	with	kickboard	(each	side)
overarm	sidestroke	variation:	while	walking	across	pool	width	or
swimming	with	kickboard	(each	side)
your	choice	of	combined	sidestroke	arm	and	leg	motions:	while	standing
in	place	(each	side)
Main	Set
	
(
½
	
minute	rest	after	each)
1	×	50	elementary	backstroke:	with	whip	kick,	open	turn,
breaststroke	1	×	25	sidestroke:	on	right	side	(with	or	without
assistance)	1	×	25	sidestroke:	on	left	side	(with	or	without
assistance)	1	×	50	continuous	swim:	sculling	with	flutter	kicking,
open	turn,	crawl	1	×	25	sidestroke:	on	right	side
½	minute	treading
1	×	25	sidestroke:	on	left	side
Push-up	exit
1	×	50	continuous	swim:	kneeling	dive,	crawl,	open	turn,	backstroke
Cool-down
1	minute	each:	whip	kick:	in	supine	position,	on	wall	or	with	kickboard
scissors	kick:	with	kickboard	(each	side)
combined	sidestroke	arm	and	leg	motions:	while	standing	in	place	(each
side)
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
B
EGINNERS’
	L
EVEL
	10
Highlights:
	Swimming	two	crescendo-type	sets	of	25,	50,	and	75
yards/meters	
Total	Distance:
	300	yards/meters
Warm-up
1	minute	each:	windmill	backstroke	arm	motion
crawl-stroke	arm	motion:	standing	in	place
elementary	backstroke	arm	motion:	standing	in	place
breaststroke	arm	motion:	standing	in	place
sidestroke	arm	motion:	(your	choice	of	regular	or	overarm—each	side),
standing	in	place
bobbing:	with	breathing
flutter	kick:	(prone	or	supine)	on	wall	or	with	kickboard
whip	kick:	in	supine	position,	on	wall	or	with	kickboard
sidestroke	arm	motion:	walking	across	pool	or	with	kickboard	(your
choice—each	side)
combined	sidestroke	arm	and	leg	motions:	standing	in	place	(your	choice
—each	side)
Main	Set	(½	minute	rest	after	each)
Repeat
	2	×
1	×	25	sidestroke
1	×	50	continuous	swim:	catch-up	crawl,	open	turn,	regular	crawl	1
×	75	continuous	swim:	backstroke,	open	turn,	breaststroke,	open
turn,	sculling
Cool-down
1	minute	treading:	alternating	with	prone	or	supine	float	2	minutes
Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
Push-up	exit
2	×	kneeling	dive/push-up	exit
P
HASE	II
INTERMEDIATE	WORKOUTS
W
HO’S	AN
	I
NTERMEDIATE
?
You’re	an	Intermediate	swimmer	if	you:
Can	swim	at	least	75	yards/meters	without	stopping.
Know	the	skills	taught	in	“The	Fundamentals	of	Swimming”
(crawl	stroke,	elementary	and	windmill	backstrokes,	treading,
sculling,	sitting	and	kneeling	dives),	plus	the	skills	and	terms
included	in	the	“Beginners’	Workouts”:	S-pattern	crawl-stroke
arm	motion,	windmill	backstroke	body	roll,	sidestroke,
breaststroke,	open	turns	for	the	crawl	and	backstroke,
crescendo	set.	If	you	need	to,	learn	or	review	these	skills	before
beginning	the	following	workouts.
I
NTERMEDIATE
	S
KILLS	AND
	T
ERMS
As	an	Intermediate	swimmer,	you’ll	practice	these	skills	(explained	in
“The	Techniques	of	Swimming”)	and	become	more	familiar	with	the
terms	(explained	in	“Workout	Terms”	and	“Training	Concepts”):
Backstroke	start
Butterfly	stroke
Crawl/freestyle	body	roll
Individual	Medley	(IM)
Stroke	counting
Stroke	drills	for	learning	and	practicing	skills
Using	equipment	to	isolate	movements	and/or	increase
resistance,	in	order	to	improve	your	technique	and	increase
your	strength
Pull-kick-swim	series	and	variations:	kick-swim	series,	pull-
swim	series,	kick-swim-kick	series
Timed	swim	and	pulse	check
Pyramid	sets—ascending/descending
Your	fitness	will	continue	to	improve:
You’ll	progress	from	swimming	50	consecutive	yards/meters	in
Level	1	to	250	yards/meters	in	Level	10.
You’ll	get	less	rest	between	swims.
Your	total	workout	distance	will	increase	from	300
yards/meters	in	Level	1	to	1,000	yards/meters	in	Level	10.
Each	workout	lasts	between	thirty	and	forty-five	minutes,	depending
on	how	fast	you	swim,	and	on	how	long	and	how	often	you	need	rest.
The	warm-ups	include	some	Swimmers’	Shape-ups,	which	may	be	done
on	land	or	in	shallow	water,	and	to	which	you	might	want	to	devote
more	time	on	your	own;	the	warm-ups	also	include	dry-land	or	shallow-
water	practice	of	any	new	skills	highlighted	in	the	workout.	It’s	also
advisable	to	add	some	stretches	from	the	Swimmers’	Shape-ups	to	your
cool-down.
Since	Levels	1–5	highlight	a	number	of	skills	during	the	warm-up,	the
distances	actually	swum	in	this	part	of	the	workout	are	shorter	than	they
ordinarily	would	be.	During	Levels	6–10,	though,	the	warm-up	distances
become	increasingly	longer	because	the	number	of	review	skills
decreases.	By	Level	10,	you’ll	be	doing	150	yards/meters	as	a	warm-up,
and	50	yards/meters	as	a	cool-down,	with	800	yards	as	a	main	set.
S
PECIAL
	T
IPS	FOR
	I
NTERMEDIATE
	S
WIMMERS
By	now	make	the	effort	to	swim	in	a	20-or	25-yard/meter	pool.
Since	the	workouts	are	based	on	a	25-yard/meter	lap,	alter	the
workout	slightly	if	your	pool	measures	only	20	yards/meters:
swim	1	×	20	instead	of	1	×	25;	1	×	40	(two	laps)	instead	of	1
×	50;	and	
1	×	80	(four	laps)	instead	of	1	×	75.	For	1	×	100
swims,	you	can	swim	five	laps	instead	of	four	to	obtain	the
same	total.	(Make	similar	adjustments	if	your	pool	is	a	different
size.)
If	you’re	in	a	long-course	(50-meter)	pool,	you’ll	be	making
fewer	turns	and	so	getting	a	more	strenuous	workout.
Therefore,	if	you	need	to,	arrange	to	swim	in	an	outside	lane,
which	will	enable	you	to	stop	and	rest	mid-lap,	especially
during	25-or	75-yard/meter	swims.	Another	thing—most	long-
course	pools	do	not	have	an	end	shallow	enough	to	allow	you
to	practice	skills.	If	this	is	the	case	in	your	pool,	practice	new
skills	first	on	dry	land	as	best	you	can,	or	try	to	find	a	pool
more	suitable	for	such	practice.
If	you’ve	no	clock	or	watch	with	a	second	hand,	approximate
the	seconds	by	counting	to	yourself,	or	by	bobbing	at	the	rate	of
one	bob	per	second;	get	a	feel	for	the	rhythm	by	practicing	with
a	clock	first.	If	you	do	timed	swims,	though,	you	need	a	more
accurate	way	of	measuring	time.
If	you	find	that	you’re	having	trouble	with	a	new	stroke	at	first,
substitute	another,	more	familiar	one	(such	as	the
crawl/freestyle)	for	part	of	the	swim.	But	don’t	forget	about	the
new	stroke	completely.
The	Individual	Medley	is	a	combination	of	the	four	competitive
strokes	in	a	particular	sequence.	Here’s	how	I	remember	the
order:	First	you	do	the	butterfly,	which	takes	the	most	energy;
then	you	turn	over	to	do	the	backstroke	because	you’re	dying
for	air	from	the	butterfly;	next	comes	the	breaststroke	to	let	you
rest	and	stretch	some	more	if	you	need	to;	then	you	end	with
the	fastest	stroke,	the	crawl/freestyle.
I
NTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	1
Highlights:
	Single-beat	dolphin	kick	(see	
this	page
);	use	of	fins
(optional);	timed	50-yard/meter	swim	and	pulse	check	
Total	Distance:
300	yards/meters
Warm-up	(50	yards/meters)
3	minutes:	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
1	minute	each:	prone	flutter	kicking:	with	rhythmic	breathing	on	wall
new	skill	practice:	dolphin	kick	in	supine	position	on	wall	(in	corner	if
possible)
catch-up	S-pattern	crawl	stroke:	while	standing	in	shoulder-deep	water
(see	
this	page
)
new	skill	practice:	dolphin	kick	in	prone	position,	on	wall	or	across	pool
width
1	×	50	easy	swim:	kneeling	dive,	crawl	stroke	or	your	choice
OPTIONAL
:			Introduction	to	use	of	fins.	Review	the	supine	and	prone	flutter
kick,	then	the	dolphin	kick	in	the	supine	and	prone	positions.
Use	fins	(kickboard	optional)	during	the	rest	of	the	workout
and	in	subsequent	workouts	if	you’re	having	a	problem	with
any	kicking.
Main	Set	(200	yards/meters)
3	×	50	kick-swim	series	(½	minute	rest	after	each	50):
1	×	50	continuous	kick-swim:	1	×	25	dolphin	kick,	1	×	25	crawl	1	×	50
continuous	kick-swim:	1	×	25	backstroke	flutter	kick,	1	×	25
backstroke	1	×	50	continuous	kick-swim:	1	×	25	dolphin	kick,	1	×	25
crawl;	rest	as	needed
1	×	50	timed	swim:	kneeling	dive,	crawl/freestyle	or	swimmer’s
choice	Pulse	check
(Record	timed	swim	and	pulse	check	in	Timed	Swim	Log.)
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
2×25	easy	swim
1	×	25	sculling
1	×	25	elementary	backstroke
New	skill	review:	1	minute	dolphin	kick	on	wall	or	across	pool
width;	5	×	push-off	into	prone	glide	with	dolphin	kick	across
pool	width	(use	crawl/freestyle	to	complete	width	if	needed)	2
minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups	(stretches)
INTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	2
Highlights:
	The	butterfly	pull	and	coordinating	it	with	the	single-beat
dolphin	kick	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
	300	yards/meters
Warm-up	(50	yards/meters)
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
5	minutes	skill	practice	(1	minute	each):
butterfly	pull,	standing	in	place
butterfly	pull	with	breathing,	walking	across	width	of	pool
single-beat	dolphin	kick	on	wall
combined	butterfly	pull	and	kick,	standing	in	place
butterfly	pull	with	breathing,	walking	in	shallow	water	1	×	50
easy	swim:	crawl/freestyle
Main	Set	(200	yards/meters;	2	×	25s	alternating	with	50s)
2	×	25	with	½	minute	rest	after	each	25:	1×25	butterfly
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle	or	breaststroke
1	×	50	swim:	crawl/freestyle;	use	catch-up	S-pattern	pull	for	first
half	of	each	25
½	minute	rest
2	×	25	butterfly	swim	with	½	minute	rest	after	each	25
1	×	50	swim:	crawl/freestyle
1	×	50	swim:	crawl/freestyle
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
2	×	25	easy	kicking:
1	×	25	dolphin
1	×	25	whip
Skill	review:	1	minute	butterfly	pull	with	breathing,	standing	in
place;	5	×	push-off	into	prone	glide	with	dolphin	kick	across
pool	width	2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
I
NTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	3
Highlights:
	The	double-beat	dolphin	kick	(see	
this	page
);	learning	how	to
use	pull-buoys	(optional—see	
this	page
);	swimming	a	250-yard/meter
pyramid	set	
Total	Distance:
	350	yards/meters
Warm-up	(50	yards/meters)
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
3	minutes	skill	practice	(1	minute	each):
double-beat	dolphin	kick	in	supine	position	on	wall
combined	butterfly	pull	and	kick,	standing	in	place
butterfly	pull	with	breathing,	walking	in	shallow	water	1	×	25
easy	swim:	breaststroke
1	×	25	double-beat	dolphin	kick	(kickboard	optional)
OPTIONAL
:			Introduction	to	use	of	the	pull-buoy.	Review	the
crawl/freestyle,	backstroke,	breaststroke,	and	butterfly	pulls,
using	pull-buoys.	Use	them	from	now	on	whenever	you	want	to
isolate	and	practice	a	pull.
Main	Set	(250	yards/meters)
1	×	250	pyramid	swim	(½	minute	rest	after	each	swim):
1	×	25	butterfly	(double-beat	kick)
1	×	50	backstroke
1	×	50	backstroke
1	×	75	crawl/freestyle
1	×	50	breaststroke
1	×	25	butterfly	(double-beat	kick)
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
Skill	review:
1	×	50	easy	dolphin	kick
1	minute	butterfly	pull	in	shoulder-deep	water	walking	across
pool	width	5	×	push-off	into	prone	glide	with	dolphin	kick
across	pool	width	1	minute	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
I
NTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	4
Highlights:
	Practicing	the	four	competitive	strokes	in	the	Individual
Medley	(IM)	order	by	doing	a	pull-kick-swim	set;	learning	open	turns	for
each	(
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
	400	yards/meters
Warm-up	(50	yards/meters)
½	minute	each	pull	in	IM	order	(butterfly,	backstroke,
breaststroke,	crawl)	in	shoulder-deep	water	Skill	practice:	each
pull	in	IM	order,	walking	across	pool	width,	using	open	turns	½
minute	each	kick	in	IM	order	(dolphin,	supine	flutter,	whip,
prone	flutter)	on	wall	1	×	50	easy	swim:	sculling	or	elementary
backstroke
Main	Set	(300	yards/meters)
4	×	75	pull-kick-swim	series	in	IM	order	(½	minute	rest	after	each
75):
1	×	75	butterfly:	1	×	25	pull,	1	×	25	kick,	1	×	25	swim	1	×	75
backstroke:	1	×	25	pull,	1	×	25	kick,	1	×	25	swim	1	×	75
1	×	75	butterfly:	1	×	25	pull,	1	×	25	kick,	1	×	25	swim	1	×	75
backstroke:	1	×	25	pull,	1	×	25	kick,	1	×	25	swim	1	×	75
breaststroke:	1	×	25	pull,	1	×	25	kick,	1	×	25	swim	1	×	75
crawl/freestyle:	1	×	25	pull,	1	×	25	kick,	1	×	25	swim
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
1	×	50	easy	swim:	sculling	or	elementary	backstroke	2	×	kneeling
dive
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
I
NTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	5
Highlights:
	Backstroke	start	(see	
this	page
);	swimming	100	continuous
yards/meters;	semi-standing	dive	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
	500
yards/meters
Warm-up	(50	yards/meters)
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
1	minute	bobbing:	go	as	high	and	bend	as	deeply	as	possible	Skill
practice:
5	×	backstroke	push-off	with	flutter	kick	3	×	backstroke	push-off
with	dolphin	kick
1	×	25	sculling:	start	with	backstroke	push-off	1	×	25	elementary
backstroke:	start	with	push-off
Main	Set	(400	yards/meters;	2	×	50s	alternating	with	100s)
2	×	50	backstroke	with	½	minute	rest	after	each	50	(use
backstroke	push-off)	1	×	100	crawl
1	minute	rest
2	×	50	backstroke	with	½	minute	rest	after	each	50	(use
backstroke	push-off)	1	×	100	in	IM	order	(rest	between	25s	if
needed):	1×25	butterfly
needed):	1×25	butterfly
1×25	backstroke
1	×	25	breaststroke
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
1	minute	double-beat	dolphin	kick:	in	supine	position	on	wall	1
×	25	double-beat	dolphin	kick
1	×	25	kick:	swimmer’s	choice
2	×	kneeling	dive
Skill	practice:	2	×	semi-standing	dive
1	minute	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
I
NTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	6
Highlights:
	Timed	50-yard/meter	swim	and	a	pulse	check	
Total
Distance:
	600	yards/meters
Warm-up	(100	yards/meters)
2	minutes	skill	practice	(½	minute	each):	pull	in	
IM
	order
(butterfly,	backstroke,	breaststroke,	crawl/freestyle)	while
standing	in	shoulder-deep	water	kick	in	
IM
	order	(dolphin	kick,
supine	flutter	kick,	whip	kick,	prone	flutter	kick)	on	wall	1
minute	bobbing	with	breathing
1	×	100	swimmer’s	choice	of	stroke	and	equipment	(rest	between
25s	if	needed)
Main	Set	(450	yards/meters)
1	×	100	crawl/freestyle
1	minute	rest
4	×	50	in	IM	order	with	½	minute	rest	after	each	50:	1	×	50
4	×	50	in	IM	order	with	½	minute	rest	after	each	50:	1	×	50
butterfly	(rest	between	25s	if	needed)	1	×	50	backstroke
1	×	50	breaststroke
1	×	50	crawl/freestyle
1	×	100	crawl/freestyle	(rest	between	50s	only	if	needed)	Rest	as
needed	1	×	50	timed	swim:	semi-standing	dive,	crawl/freestyle
or	swimmer’s	choice	Pulse	check
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
1	×	50	easy	swim:	sculling	or	elementary	backstroke	1	minute
dolphin	kick	on	wall
2	×	semi-standing	dive
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
I
NTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	7
Highlights:
	Stroke	count	for	25-yard/meter	crawl/freestyle	and
backstroke	swim	
Total	Distance:
	700	yards/meters
Warm-up	(150	yards/meters)
4	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
3	×	25	easy	crawl/freestyle	pull-kick-swim	series	(rest	and
equipment	optional):	1×25	pull
1×25	kick
1	×	25	swim
3	×	25	backstroke	pull-kick-swim	series	(rest	and	equipment
optional):	1	×	25	pull
1	×	25	kick
1	×	25	swim
Main	Set	(500	yards/meters;	50s	alternating	with	100s)
1	×	200	pyramid	swim	(½	minute	rest	after	each	swim):	1	×	50
crawl/freestyle	(count	strokes	for	first	25)	1	×	100	swimmer’s
choice
1	×	50	backstroke	(count	strokes	for	first	25)	1	×	100	in	IM
order	(rest	between	25s	only	if	needed):	1	×	25	butterfly
1	×	25	backstroke
1	×	25	breaststroke
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle
1	×	200	pyramid	swim	(½	minute	rest	after	each	swim):	1	×	50
crawl/freestyle	(count	strokes	for	first	25)	1	×	100	swimmer’s
choice
1	×	50	backstroke:	count	strokes	for	first	25
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
1	×	25	easy	swim:	swimmer’s	choice
1	minute	treading:	in	deep	water
1	×	25	easy	swim:	swimmer’s	choice
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
I
NTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	8
Highlights:
	Refining	the	crawl/freestyle	by	learning	how	to	roll	the
body;	learning	to	use	hand	paddles	(optional—see	
this	page
);	swimming
150	continuous	yards/meters	
Total	Distance:
	800	yards/meters
Warm-up	(150	yards/meters)
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
2	minutes:	skill	practice	(1	minute	each):	catch-up	S-pattern
crawl/	freestyle	with	body	roll,	walking	in	shoulder-deep	water
prone	flutter	kick:	with	rhythmic	breathing,	on	wall	3	×	50
crawl/	freestyle	with	body	roll,	walking	in	shoulder-deep	water
prone	flutter	kick:	with	rhythmic	breathing,	on	wall	3	×	50
easy	swim-pull-swim	series:
1	×	50	sculling
1	×	50	pull:	crawl/freestyle
1	×	50	swimmer’s	choice
Main	Set	(600	yards/meters;	two	ascending	sets	of	50-100-150)
1	×	50	crawl/freestyle	with	body	roll	(use	catch-up	for	first	25)
½	minute	rest
1	×	100	in	IM	order	(rest	between	25s	only	if	needed):	1	×	25
butterfly
1	×	25	backstroke
1	×	25	breaststroke
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle
1	minute	rest
1	×	150	crawl/freestyle	with	body	roll:	use	catch-up	for	first,
third,	and	fifth	25	(paddles	optional)	1-2	minutes	rest
REPEAT	MAIN	SET
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
1	×	50	easy	kick	in	IM	order:
1	×	25	prone	dolphin,	changing	to	supine	flutter	at	halfway	mark
1	×	25	prone	whip,	changing	to	prone	flutter	at	halfway	mark
Review	skills
catch-up	S-pattern	crawl/freestyle	with	body	roll,	standing	in
shoulder-deep	water	catch-up	S-pattern	crawl/freestyle	with
body	roll,	walking	in	shoulder-deep	water	1	minute	Swimmers’
Shape-ups:	stretches
I
NTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	9

Highlights:
	Swimming	the	four	competitive	strokes	in	reverse
Individual	Medley	(IM)	order;	repeating	stroke	count	to	see	how	body
roll	makes	stroke	more	efficient;	swimming	200	consecutive
yards/meters	
Total	Distance:
	900	yards/meters
Warm-up	(150	yards/meters)
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
3	×	50	pull-kick-swim	series	with	30	seconds	rest	after	each	50
(swimmer’s	choice	of	stroke	or	combination	of	strokes):	1×50
pull
1×50	kick
1	×	50	swim
Main	Set	(700	yards/meters)
1	×	200	crawl:	use	catch-up	crawl/freestyle	for	every	other
length,	and	body	roll	throughout	30	seconds	rest
1	×	50	crawl/freestyle:	count	strokes	for	first	25
30	seconds	rest
1	×	100	in	IM	order	(rest	between	25s	only	if	needed):	1×25
butterfly
1	×	25	backstroke
1	×	25	breaststroke
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle
30	seconds	rest
1	×	50	backstroke:	count	strokes	for	first	25
30	seconds	rest
1	×	100	in	IM	order:
1	×	25	butterfly
1	×	25	backstroke
1	×	25	breaststroke
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle
30	seconds	rest
1	×	50	crawl/freestyle:	count	strokes	for	first	25
30	seconds	rest
1	×	100	in	reverse	IM	order:
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle
1	×	25	breaststroke
1	×	25	backstroke
1×25	butterfly
30	seconds	rest
1	×	50	backstroke:	count	strokes	for	first	25
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
1	×	50	easy	swim:	swimmer’s	choice
3	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
I
NTERMEDIATE
	L
EVEL
	10
Highlights:
	Timed	50-yard/meter	swim	and	pulse	check	to	compare
with	the	last	one;	swimming	a	descending	series	as	the	main	set,	starting
with	a	250-yard/meter	swim	and	totaling	750	yards/meters	
Total
Distance:
	1,000	yards/meters
Warm-up	(150	yards/meters)
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups
1	×	150	easy	swim:	sculling,	elementary	backstroke,	or	any
combination	of	the	two
Main	Set	(800	yards/meters;	descending	series)
1	×	250	easy	crawl/freestyle	(rest	once	during	swim	if	needed)	1
1	×	250	easy	crawl/freestyle	(rest	once	during	swim	if	needed)	1
minute	rest
1	×	200	in	reverse	IM	order	(rest	only	when	needed):	1	×	50
crawl/freestyle
1	×	50	breaststroke
1	×	50	backstroke
1	×	50	butterfly	(rest	between	25s	if	needed)	1	minute	rest
3	×	50	crawl/freestyle	or	swimmer’s	choice:	pull-kick-swim	series
1×50	pull
1×50	kick
1	×	50	swim
30	seconds	rest
1	×	100	in	IM	order:
1×25	butterfly
1	×	25	backstroke
1	×	25	breaststroke
1	×	25	crawl/freestyle
1	minute	rest
1	×	50	crawl/freestyle
Rest	as	needed
1	×	50	timed	swim:	semi-standing	dive,	crawl/freestyle	or
swimmer’s	choice	Pulse	check
Cool-down	(50	yards/meters)
1	×	50	easy	swim:	swimmer’s	choice
2	minutes	Swimmers’	Shape-ups:	stretches
T
O
	V
ARY	THE
	W
ORKOUTS
If	you	decide	to	maintain	your	fitness	at	the	Intermediate	level,	you’ll
probably	want	to	vary	the	basic	1,000-yard/meter	workout.	In	general,
you	should	follow	the	pattern	established	in	Level	10:
Total	distance:	1,000	yards/meters
Warm-up:	150	yards/meters	(easy,	relaxed	swim)	Main	set:
800	yards/meters	(variety	of	strokes,	distances)	Cool-down:
50	yards/meters	(easy,	relaxed	swim)
Using	these	guidelines,	you	can	mix	and	match	strokes	and	skills:
In	the	warm-up,	alternate	different	strokes:	swim	50s	of	your
best	stroke	alternating	with	25s	of	your	worst.
Add	drills	to	the	warm-up	to	practice	newly	acquired	skills	or	to
refine	familiar	ones	(see	“The	Techniques	of	Swimming”).	Add
pulling	for	more	variety.
In	the	cool-down,	use	sculling	or	the	elementary	backstroke	for
easy	swimming,	or	tread	in	place,	or	use	water	exercises	from
“Swimmers’	Shape-ups.”	Add	kicking	for	variety.
Repeat	Levels	1-9,	adding	distance	to	bring	each	workout	up	to
a	total	of	1,000	yards/meters.
Do	your	IMs	in	reverse	order.
Do	a	stroke	count	in	all	your	strokes	every	once	in	a	while—try
to	lower	your	count.
If	you	haven’t	been	using	any	equipment,	consider	doing	so.
On	one	day	a	week,	or	for	one	week,	tackle	a	stroke	or	skill	that
you’ve	been	avoiding	or	feel	uncomfortable	doing.
Do	a	timed	swim	and	a	pulse	check	occasionally.
Make	up	your	own	main	sets	consisting	of	a	total	of	800
yards/
meters.	(This	is	about	half	a	mile,	so	why	not	begin	to	log
your	distance	either	in	your	own	personal	log—see	
Appendix	D
—or	on	the	American	Red	Cross	50-mile	log	that’s	posted	at
many	pools?)	Here	are	ten	sample	800-yard/meter	main	sets	to
get	you	going:
1.	2	×	200	crawl/freestyle
4	×	50	swimmer’s	choice
4	×	50	alternating	25s	crawl/freestyle	pull	with	backstroke
kick	2.	2	×	75	pull-swim	alternating	with	1	×	50:
2	×	75	crawl/freestyle	(1	×	75	pull;	1	×	75	swim)	1	×	50	easy
supine	flutter	kick	with	sculling	2	×	75	backstroke	(1	×	75
pull;	1	×	75	swim)	1	×	50	easy	supine	flutter	kick	with
sculling	2	×	75	backstroke	(1	×	75	pull;	1	×	75	swim)	1	×	50
easy	supine	flutter	kick	with	sculling	2	×	75	sidestroke	or
swimmer’s	choice	(1	×	75	pull;	1	×	75	swim)	1	×	50	easy
supine	whip	kick	with	sculling
3.	Descending	set
1	×	200	crawl/freestyle
1	×	100	backstroke
1	×	50	breaststroke
1	×	25	butterfly
1	×	25	sidestroke
REPEAT
4.	150s	alternating	with	50s:
1	×	150	crawl/freestyle:	pull-kick-swim	series	1	×	50	easy
sidestroke	or	sculling
1	×	150	backstroke:	pull-kick-swim	series	1	×	50	easy	swim—
swimmer’s	choice
1	×	150	breaststroke:	pull-kick	series	1	×	50	easy	elementary
backstroke	or	sculling	1	×	150	crawl/freestyle:	pull-kick	series
1	×	50	easy	swim—swimmer’s	choice
5.	Pyramind	set;	one	stroke	or	any	combination	of	strokes:
1×50
1×100
1×150
1×200
1×150
1×100
1×50
6.	150	swims	alternating	with	150	kick	sets:
1	×	150	crawl/freestyle
3	×	50	kick	set:	crawl	flutter,	dolphin,	backstroke	flutter	1	×	150
backstroke
3	×	50	kick	set:	crawl	flutter,	dolphin,	backstroke	flutter	1	×	150
crawl/freestyle
1	×	50	easy	kick—swimmer’s	choice
7.	200s	alternating	with	100	IMs:
1	×	200	crawl/freestyle
1×100	IM
1	×	200	swimmer’s	choice
1	×	100	IM
1	×	200	sidestroke	or	swimmer’s	choice
8.	Butterfly	workout:
1	×	150	swimmer’s	choice:	pull-kick-swim	series	1	×	150
crawl/freestyle
1×25	butterfly
1	×	100	crawl/freestyle
1×25	butterfly
1	×	50	backstroke
1×25	butterfly
1	×	100	backstroke
1×25	butterfly
1	×	150	crawl/freestyle
9.	IM	workout:	(In	50-meter	pool,	change	strokes	at	half-lap
marker)
1×100	pull	IM
1	×	100	kick	IM
1	×	100	swim	IM
1	×	200	swim—swimmer’s	choice
1	×	100	pull	IM
1	×	100	kick	IM
1	×	100	swim	IM
10.	4	×	200	mixed	strokes:
1	×	200	crawl/freestyle:	1	×	50	pull,	1	×	50	kick,	1	×	100
swim	1	×	200	backstroke:	1	×	50	pull,	1	×	50	kick,	1	×	100
swim	1	×	200	breaststroke:	1	×	50	pull,	1	×	50	kick,	1	×	100
swim	1	×	200	sidestroke	and/or	butterfly:	1	×	50	pull,	1	×	50
kick,	1	×	100	swim
P
HASE	III
ADVANCED	WORKOUTS
W
HO’S	AN
	A
DVANCED
	S
WIMMER
?
You	are	an	Advanced	swimmer	if	you:
Can	swim	at	least	200	yards/meters	without	stopping.
Know	“The	Fundamentals	of	Swimming”	(crawl	stroke,
elementary	and	windmill	backstrokes,	treading,	sculling,	sitting
dive),	the	skills	and	terms	taught	in	the	“Beginners’	Workouts”
(S-pattern	crawl/freestyle-stroke	pull,	windmill	backstroke	with
body	roll,	sidestroke,	breaststroke,	kneeling	dive,	open	turns	for
the	crawl/freestyle	and	backstroke,	crescendo	swim)	plus	the
skills	and	terms	taught	in	“Intermediate	Workouts”	(butterfly
stroke,	backstroke	in-the-water	start,	crawl/freestyle	stroke
with	body	roll,	pull-kick-swim	series,	timed	swim	and	pulse
check,	Individual	Medley	(IM),	stroke	counting,	pyramid	series.
If	necessary,	learn	or	review	these	skills	and	terms	before	you
begin	this	phase.
A
DVANCED
	S
KILLS	AND
	T
ERMS
In	this	phase,	you’ll	learn	these	new	skills	(explained	in	“The	Techniques
of	Swimming”)	and	terms	(explained	in	“Workout	Terms”	and	“Training
Concepts”	(see	
this	page
/
this	page
).
Bilateral	breathing	patterns	for	crawl/freestyle
Alternate	breathing	pattern	for	butterfly
Backstroke	bent-arm	pull
Crawl/freestyle	and	breaststroke	in-the-water	starts
Closed	crawl/freestyle	turn
Standing	dive
Easy/hard	(Fartlek)	swims
Interval	training
Paced	swims
Here’s	how	your	fitness	will	improve:
You’ll	progress	from	swimming	200	continuous	yards/meters	in
Level	1	to	400	yards/meters	in	Level	10.
You’ll	get	less	rest	between	swims,	and	the	rest	you	do	get	will
sometimes	be	determined	by	how	fast	you’ve	just	swum
(interval	training).
Your	total	workout	distance	will	increase	from	1,000
yards/meters	in	Level	1	(approximately	a	half	mile)	to	1,800
yards/meters	in	Level	10	(approximately	one	mile).
Each	workout	will	take	about	forty-five	minutes,	depending	on	how
fast	you	swim	and	how	much	rest	you	take.
The	presentation	here	is	more	streamlined	than	in	the	previous	phases.
For	instance,	there	are	no	Swimmers’	Shape-ups	indicated	for	the
warm-ups	or	cool-downs;	add	your	own.	And	an	“easy	swim”	means	that
you	may	use	the	elementary	backstroke,	sculling,	the	sidestroke,	or
whatever	other	stroke	is	relaxing	for	you.
S
PECIAL
	T
IPS	FOR
	A
DVANCED
	S
WIMMERS
If	you’re	not	swimming	in	a	25-yard/meter	pool,	adjust	the
workouts	in	the	same	manner	as	described	for	Intermediate
swimmers	see	
this	page
).
As	an	Advanced	swimmer,	it’s	important	for	you	to	have	some
sort	of	clock	or	watch	with	a	second	hand	that’s	clearly	visible.
The	principles	of	
pacing
	and	
interval	training
,	borrowed	from
competitive	swimming,	are	good	concepts	for	you	to	put	to	use
at	this	level.	Even	though	you	may	be	swimming	relatively
slowly,	it’s	not	too	early	to	begin	to	keep	a	record	of	your	times
—this	gives	the	
workouts	more	shape,	and	gives	you	another
set	of	goals	to	reach	for.
The	
interval	swims
	are	based	on	the	ability	of	the	average	fitness
swimmer	at	this	level,	who	can	easily	swim	50	yards	in	about	1
minute.	Since	in	this	phase	resting	time	should	approximate
swim	time,	the	average	interval	(swim	time	plus	resting	time)
for	50	yards	would	be	2	minutes	(“on	2:00”).	If	our	time	is	at
least	10	seconds	faster	or	slower,	adjust	the	interval	by
doubling	your	own	time.	If	you	swim	a	50	in	45	seconds,	your
interval	would	be	1:30.	If	you	hold	that	time	for	each	50-yard
swim,	you	get	45	seconds	rest	between	them.	As	you	become
able	to	swim	faster	you’ll	be	getting	more	and	more	rest	at	that
interval	and	so	should	reduce	your	overall	interval	accordingly.
Eventually,	you	may	want	to	make	your	resting	time	shorter
than	your	swim	time.	(Competitive	swimmers’	rest	times	are
often	far	less	than	their	swimming	times.)	In	addition,	a	meter
pool	is	10	percent	longer	than	a	yard	pool,	so	the	intervals
would	also	be	10	percent	longer.	If	your	pool	is	a	different	size,
adjust	your	intervals	accordingly.
Swim,	kick,	and/or	pull	drills	in	the	warm-ups	and	cool-downs
should	be	done	at	an	easy	pace.
Use	equipment	such	as	hand	paddles,	pull-buoys,	and	fins	to
isolate	the	movements	and	to	help	you	increase	the	power	of
your	stroke.
Try	not	to	rest	during	the	workout	except	where	indicated—
gradually	reduce	your	rest	each	time	you	repeat	a	workout.
Consider	joining	a	swim	club	or	taking	part	in	organized
workouts.	Many	coaches	allow	noncompetitive	fitness-minded
swimmers	to	join	in	their	team’s	practices.	If	you	do	work	out
with	serious	swimmers,	make	sure	you’re	familiar	with	the
appropriate	terms,	concepts,	and	pool	courtesies	beforehand.
Often	there	are	lanes	designated	for	faster	and	for	slower
swimmers.	The	lifeguard	or	coach	may	ask	you	to	swim	in	the
slower	lane.	Or	you	can	judge	where	you	should	swim	by
comparing	the	other	swimmers’	times,	intervals,	and	distances
with	your	own.	The	coach	may	also	suggest	ways	to	adapt	the
workout	to	your	own	level	and	ability.	For	example,	you	might
do	
every	other
	interval	that	the	team	does	(if	you	do	this,	make
sure	to	stand	to	the	right	of	the	lane,	so	that	the	other
swimmers	may	turn.)
Another	tip	is	to	stop	swimming	when	the	other	members	of	the
workout	have	stopped	swimming,	whether	you’ve	finished	the
series	or	not.	Just	finish	your	lap,	then	go	on	to	begin	the	next
along	with	the	rest	of	the	swimmers.
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	1
Highlights:
	Controlled	breathing	in	the	freestyle	(see	
this	page
).	Fartlek
training	(easy/hard)	
Total	Distance:
	1,000	yards/meters
Warm-up	(200	yards/meters)
Skill	practice:	freestyle	with	alternate	breathing	4	×	50	pull:
freestyle;	use	alternate	breathing	on	odd-numbered	25s;	30
seconds	rest	after	each	50
Main	Set	(700	yards/meters;	descending	set)
1×200	freestyle:	alternate	breathing	on	odd-numbered	25s;	1
minute	rest	2	×	100	IM:	1	minute	rest	after	each	100
4	×	50	freestyle:	alternate	breathing	on	first	25;	30	seconds	rest
after	each	50
4	×	25	easy/hard:	swimmer’s	choice	of	stroke
Cool-down	(100	yards/meters)
2	×	50	kick:	1	×	50	prone	flutter,	1	×	50	supine	flutter	Skill
review:	alternate	breathing
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	2
Highlights:
	Closed	turn	for	the	crawl/freestyle	(see	
this	page
);
swimming	an	800-yard/meter	pyramid	set	
Total	Distance:
	1,100
yards/meters
Warm-up	(200	yards/meters)
Skill	practice:	closed	turn
2	×	100	swim-pull:	freestyle	with	closed	turns;	30	seconds	rest
after	each	100:	1	×	100	swim	with	alternate	breathing
1	×	100	pull
Main	Set	(800	yards/meters)
1	×	800	pyramid	swim:	freestyle	using	closed	turn;	15	seconds
rest	per	50:	1×50(15	seconds	rest)
1	×	100	(30	seconds	rest)
1	×	150	(45	seconds	rest)
1	×	200	(60	seconds	rest)
1	×	150	(45	seconds	rest)
1	×	100	(30	seconds	rest)
1×50	(15	seconds	rest)
Cool-down	(100	yards/meters)
1	×	100	kick	in	IM	order
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	3
Highlights:
	In-the-water	starts	for	all	strokes	(see	
this	page
-
this	page
);
50-yard/meter	timed	swim	and	pulse	check	
Total	Distance:
	1,200
yards/meters
Warm-up	(300	yards/meters)
Skill	practice:	in-the-water	starts	for	all	strokes	3	×	100	pull-kick-
swim	series:	freestyle	or	swimmer’s	choice;	use	in-the-water
start;	30	seconds	rest	after	each	100:	1	×	100	pull
1	×	100	kick
1	×	100	swim
Main	set	(750	yards/meters)
2	×	200	freestyle:	alternate	breathing	on	odd-numbered	laps;	1
minute	rest	after	each	200
1	×	100	in	reverse	IM	order
2	×	50	freestyle;	30	seconds	rest	after	each	50
4	×	25	easy/hard	freestyle:	alternate	breathing	during	easy	laps
Rest	as	needed
1	×	50	timed	swim:	semi-standing	dive;	freestyle	or	swimmer’s
choice	Pulse	check
Cool-down	(150	yards/meters)
3	×	50	pull-kick-swim	series:	easy	freestyle	or	swimmer’s	choice
Review	starts	for	all	strokes	(see	pages	000-00)
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	4
Highlights:
	Broken	400-yard/meter	swim	in	two	200-yard/meter
paced	swims	(see	
this	page
);	standing	dive	(
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
1,300	yards/meters
Warm-up	(300	yards/meters)
3	×	100	easy	swim,	20	seconds	rest	after	each	100:	1	×	100
backstroke
1	×	100	breaststroke
1	×	100	crawl/freestyle,	alternate	breathing	on	odd-numbered
25s
Main	Set	(850	yards/meters)
1	×	400	broken	swim:
2	×	200:	standing	dive,	freestyle,	1	minute	rest	after	each	1	×	50
swimmer’s	choice
4	×	100	pull-kick	series:	in	IM	order;	30	seconds	rest	after	each
100:	1	×	100	IM	pull
1	×	100	IM	kick
1	×	100	pull
1	×	100	kick
Cool-down	(150	yards/meters)
1	×	150	easy	swim:	swimmer’s	choice
3	×	standing	dive
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	5
Highlights:
	Swimming	timed	intervals	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
1,400	yards/meters
Warm-up	(300	yards/meters)
3	×	100	pull-kick-swim	series:	swimmer’s	choice;	15	seconds	rest
after	each	100
after	each	100
Main	Set	(950	yards/meters;	descending	set)
3×150	swim-pull-swim	series:	freestyle;	1	minute	rest	after	each
150
1	×	100	easy	breaststroke
1	×	100	IM
4	×	50	timed	interval:	freestyle	on	2:00
Pulse	check
4	×	25	easy/hard:	freestyle;	alternate	breathing	during	easy
swims
Cool-down	(150	yards/meters)
1	×	50	easy	kick:	swimmer’s	choice
1	×	100	easy	swim:	swimmer’s	choice
3	×	standing	dive
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	6
Highlights:
	Breaststroke	push-off	(see	
this	page
);	100-yard/meter
timed	swim	with	pulse	check	
Total	Distance:
	1,500	yards/meters
Warm-up	(300	yards/meters)
2	×	150	pull-swim:	freestyle;	15	seconds	rest	after	each	150:	1	×
150	pull:	freestyle—catch-up	S-pattern	drill	1	×	150	swim:
freestyle—using	alternate	breathing	on	odd-numbered	25s	Skill
practice:	breaststroke	push-off	in	shoulder-deep	water
Main	Set	(1,050	yards/meters;	descending	set)
3	×	150	swim:	30	seconds	rest	after	each	150:	1	×	150
3	×	150	swim:	30	seconds	rest	after	each	150:	1	×	150
breaststroke,	using	push-off
1	×	150	swimmer’s	choice
1	×	150	breaststroke,	using	push-off
2	×	100	IM;	1	minute	rest	after	each	100
4	×	50	timed	intervals:	freestyle	on	2:00
4	×	25	timed	intervals:	freestyle	on	1:00
Rest	as	needed
1	×	100	timed	swim:	standing	dive,	freestyle	Pulse	check
Cool-down	(150	yards/meters)
1	×	50	kick:	frog	or	whip
1	×	100	easy	swim
Skill	practice:	breaststroke	push-off,	in	shallow	water
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	7
Highlights:
	Backstroke	bent-arm	pull	(see	
this	page
);	doing	mixed
swims	during	a	timed	interval	
Total	Distance:
	1,500	yards/meters
Warm-up	(300	yards/meters)
1	×	200	easy	swim:	swimmer’s	choice
1	×	100	backstroke
Skill	practice:	backstroke	bent-arm	pull
Main	Set	(1,050	yards/meters)
2	×	100	pull-swim:	backstroke:
1	×	100	pull,	using	bent-arm	pull
1	×	100	swim,	using	bent-arm	pull	and	flutter	kick	3	×	100	pull-
swim:	backstroke,	using	bent-arm	pull;	pull	on	alternate	50s;	30
swim:	backstroke,	using	bent-arm	pull;	pull	on	alternate	50s;	30
seconds	rest	after	each	100
3	×	100	timed	interval:	mixed	swim	of	1	×	75	freestyle,	1	×	25
backstroke	on	4:00
4	×	50	timed	interval:	freestyle	on	1:45
1	×	50	backstroke,	using	bent-arm	pull
Cool-down	(150	yards/meters)
1	×	50	kick:	supine	flutter
1	×	100	backstroke
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	8
Highlights:
	Alternate	breathing	for	the	butterfly	(see	
this	page
)	
Total
Distance:
	1,600	yards/meters
Warm-up	(400	yards/meters)
1	×	100	reverse	IM:	30	seconds	rest	after	each	100
Skill	practice:	alternate	breathing	for	butterfly
Main	Set	(1,000	yards/meters)
1	×	200	freestyle:	use	alternate	breathing	4	×	50	mixed	swim:
butterfly	with	as	much	alternate	breathing	as	possible	for	first
25,	breaststroke	for	second	25
3	×	100	IM:	use	alternate	breathing	during	butterfly	as	much	as
possible	4	×	50	timed	interval:	freestyle	on	1:45
4	×	25	timed	interval:	freestyle	on	:45
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
1	×	100	kick:	IM	order
1	×	100	kick:	IM	order
1	×	100	easy	swim
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	9
Highlights:
	Descending	timed	intervals;	200-yard/meter	timed	
Total
Distance:
	1,700	yards/meters
Warm-up	(400	yards/meters)
1	×	300	easy	pull-kick-swim	set:	swimmer’s	choice	1	×	100	IM
Main	Set	(1,100	yards/meters)
1	×	300	freestyle	or	swimmer’s	choice
6	×	50	timed	intervals:	freestyle
2	×	50	on	2:00
2×50	on	1:45
2×50	on	1:30
1	×	150	pull-kick-swim	set:	swimmer’s	choice	6	×	25
easy/moderate/hard:	freestyle	or	swimmer’s	choice	Rest	as
needed
1	×	200	timed	swim:	standing	dive,	freestyle	Pulse	check
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
1	×	100	easy	kick:	swimmer’s	choice	or	combination	1	×	100
sculling	or	elementary	backstroke
A
DVANCED
	L
EVEL
	10
Highlights:
	Doing	the	whole	workout	(just	over	a	mile)	as	a	pyramid
swim;	comparison	of	two	300-yard/meter	timed	paced	swims;	swimming
400	consecutive	yards/meters	
Total	Distance:
	1,800	yards/meters
Warm-up	(400	yards/meters)
2	×	50	pull:	freestyle
1	×	100	pull:	IM	order
1	×	200	easy	swim:	swimmer’s	choice
Main	Set	(1,200	yards/meters)	1	minute	rest	after	each:
1	×	300	timed	swim:	freestyle
1	×	400	swimmer’s	choice
1	×	300	timed	swim:	freestyle
1	×	200	pull:	swimmer’s	choice
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
1	×	100	easy	kick:	IM	order
2	×	50	sculling	or	easy	swim
T
O
	V
ARY	THE
	W
ORKOUTS
To	vary	your	fitness	program,	make	up	your	own	workouts,	using	the
following	guidelines:
Total	distance:	1,800	yards/meters	(just	over	1	mile)	Warm-
up:	400	yards/meters
Main	set:	1,200	yards/meters
Cool-down:	200	yards/meters	
(
½	warm-up	distance)
Use	the	suggestions	given	in	the	Intermediate	Phase	(see	
this
page
)	to	vary	your	workouts.
Mix	and	match	the	strokes,	skills,	and	distances	found	in	Levels
1-10.
You	can	mix	and	match	the	following	samples,	Chinese-menu
style:	choose	one	warm-up,	one	main	set,	and	one	cool-down.
Include	the	following	freestyle	drills	in	your	advanced
workouts:	fist	closed	pulling,	dig	freestyle,	and	head	up
freestyle	(see	
this	page
).
Samples	of	400-yard/meter	Warm-ups:
1.	1	×	400	easy	swim	(any	stroke	or	combination)	2.	2	×	200
easy	pull-swim	(any	stroke	or	combination)	3.	1	×	200	swim
1	×	100	pull
1	×	100	kick	4.	1	×	200	easy	swim
4	×	50	easy	pull	5.	Swim	at	an	easy	pace	for	5-8	minutes.
Samples	of	1,200-yard/meter	Main	Sets	(Adjust	intervals	as	needed.)
1.	3	×	400	paced	swim:	freestyle	or	swimmer’s	choice;	1	minute
rest	after	each	400
2.	3	×	200	pull-kick-swim	set:	reverse	IM	order;	1	minute	rest
after	each	200
3	×	50	pull-kick-swim	set:	backstroke;	30	seconds	rest	after
each	50
3	×	100	pull-kick-swim	set:	breaststroke;	15	seconds	rest	after
each	100
3	×	50	pull-kick-swim	set:	butterfly;	rest	as	needed
3.	Descending	set	(reverse	crescendo):	freestyle	or	swimmer’s
choice;	30	seconds	rest	per	100
1	×	400;	2	minutes	rest
1	×	300;	1½	minutes	rest
1	×	200;	1	minute	rest
1	×	150;	45	seconds	rest
1	×	100;	30	seconds	rest
1	×	50;	15	seconds	rest
(This	set	may	also	be	done	in	ascending	order.)
4.	6	×	100	on	2:00
1	×	75	freestyle;	1	×	25	butterfly
1	×	75	freestyle;	1	×	25	backstroke
1	×	75	freestyle;	1	×	25	breaststroke
Repeat.
1	×	200	easy	swim
3	×	100	pull-kick-swim	set:	freestyle	or	swimmer’s	choice;	1
minute	rest	1	×	100	IM
5.	1	×	200	pull:	freestyle;	alternate	breathing	on	even-numbered
25s;	1	minute	rest
4	×	75	pull-kick-swim	set:	IM	order;	1	minute	rest	after	each
75
1	×	200	freestyle:	alternate	breathing	on	odd-numbered	25s	4
×	75	pull-kick-swim	set:	reverse	IM	order;	1	minute	rest	after
each	75
1	×	200	freestyle:	alternate	breathing	on	even-numbered	25s
6.	4	×	100	freestyle	with	descending	rest	periods:
1	×	100;	1½	minutes	rest
1	×	100;	1	minute	rest
1	×	100;	30	seconds	rest
1	×	100	(no	rest)
1	×	200	easy	swim:	breaststroke	or	sidestroke	4×50	freestyle
on	2:00
1	×	200	freestyle:	alternate	breathing	on	odd-numbered	25s
8×25	IM	on	1:00
7.	Pyramid	set:	freestyle	or	swimmer’s	choice;	15	seconds	rest	per
50:
1	×	100;	30	seconds	rest
1	×	150;	45	seconds	rest
1	×	200;	1	minute	rest
1	×	300;	1½	minutes	rest
1	×	200;	1	minute	rest
1	×	150;	45	seconds	rest
1	×	100;	30	seconds	rest	8.	Descending	set:	stroke	work;	rest	as
needed
1	×	100	IM	pull
1	×	400	swim,	your	best	stroke
1	×	300	swim,	your	second-best	stroke
1	×	200	swim,	your	third-best	stroke
1	×	100	swim,	your	fourth-best	stroke
1	×	100	IM	kick
(Or	reverse	the	order—start	with	your	worst	stroke	for	400
yards/meters	and	end	with	your	best	for	100	yards/meters.)
9.	4	×	100	swim:	swimmer’s	choice;	1	minute	rest	after	each	100
1	×	100	easy	breaststroke
4	×	50	freestyle	on	1:30
1	×	50	easy	backstroke
4	×	50	swimmer’s	choice;	30	seconds	rest	after	each	50
1	×	50	sculling
4×25	IM	order	on	1:00
4	×	25	reverse	IM	order;	15	seconds	rest	after	each	25
10.	1	×	250	swimmer’s	choice;	swim	as	100-75-50-25;	rest	15
seconds	after	each	swim
4×	100	freestyle	on	2:00;	alternate	breathing	on	odd-numbered
25s	1	×	250	swimmer’s	choice;	swim	at	100-75-50-25;	rest
15	seconds	after	each	swim	4	×	50	swimmer’s	choice	on
1:30
1	×	100	swimmer’s	choice
Samples	of	200-yard/meter	Cool-downs:
1.	1	×	200	easy	swim
2.	1	×	50	easy	pull
2.	1	×	50	easy	pull
1	×	50	easy	kick
1	×	100	easy	swim	3.	2×11	easy	sculling/sidestroke
4.	Easy	kick	for	5	minutes
5.	Tread	and	bob	for	5	minutes	(especially	if	pool	is	crowded)
P
HASE	IV
SUPER	WORKOUTS
W
HO’S	A
	S
UPER
	S
WIMMER
?
You	are	a	Super	swimmer	if	you:
Can	swin	at	least	400	yards/meters	without	stopping.
Know	all	the	skills	and	terms	that	an	advanced	swimmer	knows
(see	
this	page
-
this	page
).
Want	to	compete—or	be	in	the	same	terrific	shape	that
competitive	swimmers	are	in.
S
UPER
	S
KILLS	AND
	T
ERMS
These	workouts	will	fine	tune	the	skills	explained	in	“The	Techniques	of
Swimming”	and	increase	your	vocabulary	of	swimming	terms	(see
“Workout	Terms,”	and	“Training	Concepts,”	pages	232	and	228:
Racing	dive
Descending	and/or	ascending	timed	interval	sets
Flip	turn
Controlled	breathing
Grab	start
Even	splits
Time	trials
Build-ups
Your	fitness	will	improve:
You’ll	progress	from	swimming	400	yards/meters	to	1,000
yards/meters.
Your	total	workout	distance	will	increase	from	1,800
yards/meters	to	3,000	yards/meters.
S
PECIAL
	T
IPS	FOR
	S
UPER
	S
WIMMERS
Include	your	own	Swimmers’	Shape-ups	in	your	warm-ups	and
cool-downs.	Resistance	training	(see	
this	page
)	is
recommended,	especially	on	the	days	that	you	don’t	swim.
Reading	the	clock	and	pacing	will	be	even	more	important	here
than	during	the	Advanced	Phase.	Now	that	you’re	doing	longer
distances—and	maybe	competing—you	should	develop	a	sense
of	your	speed	and	be	able	to	control	it.
You’ll	notice	that	there	will	be	“swim	downs”	during	the	main
set—because	you’ll	be	swimming	faster	and	more	strenuously,
you	will	need	this	rest,	but	don’t	swim	so	slowly	here	that	you
cool	down	too	much.
There	will	also	be	transitional	sets	to	bring	you	into	and	out	of
the	main	set.	There’s	usually	a	pulling	set	at	the	end	of	the
warm-up	to	get	your	stroke	going	and	a	kicking	set	just	before
the	cool-down	because,	although	your	arms	will	probably	be
tired	by	this	point,	you	will	have	some	strength	left	in	your
legs.
Training	devices	are	recommended	at	this	phase	of	your	fitness
program	to	help	to	develop	your	strength.
Follow	the	tips	suggested	in	the	Advanced	Workouts	(
this
page
–
this	page
)	if	you	swim	in	organized	workouts	or	use
anything	other	than	a	25-yard	pool.
The	crawl	stroke	will	be	called	the	freestyle.	(Although	in
competition	the	term	“freestyle”	means	any	stroke	that	you
want,	virtually	all	swimmers	choose	the	crawl	for	these	events.)
“Easy	swim”	means	either	a	less	strenuous	stroke,	such	as
sculling	or	the	elementary	backstroke,	or	any	other	stroke	that
you	choose	to	swim	slowly.
Adjust	all	timed	interval	swims	according	to	your	own	speed
(see	
this	page
).
All	warm-ups	are	approximately	twice	the	length	of	the	cool-
downs.	Both	of	these	should	be	easy	swims,	and	can	incorporate
stroke/kick	drills.
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	1
Highlights:
	100s	with	even	splits	(see	
this	page
);	one-arm	freestyle
drill	(see	
this	page
);	wind-up	racing	dive	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
1,800	yards/meters
Warm-up	(400	yards/meters)
1	×	200	freestyle:	alternate	breathing	(
this	page
)	4	×	50
freestyle:	pull	on	1:30
Main	Set	(1,200	yards/meters)
1	×	200	freestyle:	one-arm-stroke	drill;	use	right	arm	for	odd	laps
and	left	arm	for	even	laps	5	×	100	freestyle:	even	splits;	30
seconds	rest	after	each	50
5	×	50	freestyle	on	1:15:	alternate	breathing	5	×	50	kick	on
2:00:	freestyle
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
4	×	50	easy	swim:	start	each	50	with	racing	dive
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	2
Highlights:
	Use	of	hand	paddles	(see	
this	page
);	descending	pulling	set
(see	
this	page
	and	
this	page
);	freestyle	kicking	drill	(see	
this	page
)	
Total
Distance:
	2,000	yards/meters
Warm-up	(400	yards/meters)
3×100	reverse	IM	on	2:30
1	×	100	pull:	swimmer’s	choice
Main	Set	(1,400	yards/meters)
3	×	200	freestyle;	30	seconds-1	minute	rest	after	each	200:	1	×
200	pull	with	paddles	and	pull-buoy
1	×	200	pull	with	pull-buoy	only
1	×	200	swim	with	paddles	only	1	×	100	swim	down:	easy
backstroke	6	×	50	freestyle	pull:	descending	set	on	1:30;
paddles	optional	4	×	50	kick	drill:	freestyle	side	kick,	or
swimmer’s	choice,	on	1:30
2×100	IM	on	2:00
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
1	×	200	easy	swim
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	3
Highlights:
	Descending/ascending	set	(see	
this	page
);	200-yard/meter
time	trial	
Total	Distance:
	2,200	yards/meters
Warm-up	(400	yards/meters)
1	×	150	freestyle:	alternate	breathing	on	odd-numbered	25s	1	×
150	freestyle:	catch-up	drill	on	odd-numbered	25s	2	×	50
freestyle	pull:	one-arm	drill
Main	Set	(1,600	yards/meters)
Rest	as	needed
1	×	200	freestyle	time	trial:	start	from	racing	dive	4	×	50
freestyle:	descending	on	1:30;	alternate	breathing
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
4	×	50	freestyle:	ascending	on	2:00
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	4
Highlights:
	Flip	turn	(see	
this	page
);	alternate	breathing;	build-up	set
(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
	2,400	yards/meters
Warm-up	(400	yards/meters)
1	×	100	freestyle:	alternate	breathing
4	×	25	freestyle	build-up	set	on	:45
4	×	25	kick	drill	on	1:00:	freestyle	side	kick	or	choice	1	×	100
freestyle	pull:	one-arm	drill,	alternating	arms	every	4	strokes
Skill	practice:	10	×	flip	turns,	swimming	to	wall	prior	to	turn
Main	Set	(1,800	yards/meters)
4	×	100	freestyle	on	2:30;	use	flip	turns
5	×	flip	turn
4	×	100	freestyle	on	2:00;	use	flip	turns
5	×	flip	turn
2×250	freestyle	with	alternate	breathing	and	flip	turns;	alternate
breathing	on	odd-numbered	50s	5	×	flip	turn
10	×	50	freestyle	build-up	set	on	1:00	(use	flip	turns)
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
1	×	200	easy	IM	kick
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	5
Highlights:
	Glide	freestyle	drill	(see	
this	page
);	glide	backstroke	drill
(see	
this	page
);	catch-up	backstroke	drill	(see	
this	page
);	backstroke	flip
turn	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
	2,500	yards/meters
Warm-up	(500	yards/meters)
1	×	100	freestyle	catch-up	drill
4	×	25	glide	freestyle	drill
1	×	100	IM
4	×	25	backstroke
1	×	100	IM	pull
Skill	practice:	10	×	backstroke	flip	turns
Main	Set	(1,800	yards/meters)
4	×	150	backstroke;	1	minute	rest	after	each	150:	1	×	150
backstroke
1	×	150	backstroke;	catch-up	drill	on	odd-numbered	25s	1	×
150	backstroke;	glide	backstroke	on	odd-numbered	25s	1	×
150	backstroke	1	×	100	freestyle:	bilateral	breathing	5	×
backstroke	flip	turn
3	×	200	mixed	swim;	1	minute	rest	after	each	200:	1	×	200
backstroke;	catch-up	drill	on	odd-numbered	25s	1	×	200
breaststroke
1	×	200	backstroke;	glide	backstroke	on	odd-numbered	25s	1	×
100	freestyle:	controlled	breathing—choice	of	breathing
patterns	5	×	backstroke	flip	turn
4	×	50	backstroke	kick	on	2:00
4	×	50	backstroke	kick	on	2:00
4	×	50	backstroke	swim	on	1:30
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
4	×	50	backstroke	kick	with	fins
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	6
Highlights:
	Time	trial	of	500	yards/400	meters;	build-ups	(see	
this
page
)	
Total	Distance:
	2,500	yards/2,400	meters
Warm-up	(500	yards/meters)
5	×	100	freestyle;	30	seconds	rest	after	each	100:	1	×	100
freestyle
1	×	100	one-arm	pull	drill;	alternate	arms	every	4	strokes	1	×
100	catch-up	freestyle;	may	use	alternate	breathing	1	×	100
pull	with	hand	paddles
1	×	100	pull	with	controlled	breathing	(every	4	strokes)
Main	Set	(1,800	yards/1,700	meters)
5	×	50	freestyle	pull	build-ups	on	1:20
5	×	50	freestyle	swim	build-ups	on	1:00
1	×	100	swim-down:	easy	swim
Rest	as	needed
1	×	500-yard/400-meter	time	trial;	racing	dive,	freestyle	or
choice	1	×	100	swim-down:	easy	double-arm	backstroke	8	×
50	mixed	swim	on	2:00:	butterfly	alternating	with	breaststroke
2	×	100	IM	kick;	30	seconds	rest	after	each	100
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
1×200	easy	IM
1×200	easy	IM
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	7
Highlights:
	Grab	start	(see	
this	page
);	broken	swims	of	200
yards/meters	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
	2,600	yards/meters
Warm-up	(500	yards/meters)
1	×	500	crescendo	set:	freestyle	or	choice;	easy/hard:	2×25
2×50
2×75
2×100	pull
Main	Set	(1,900	yards/meters)
5	×	200	broken	swim	on	4:00	(on	odd-numbered	200s,	10
seconds	rest	at	the	50	and	150;	on	even-numbered	200s,	15
seconds	rest	at	the	50	and	100,	and	10	seconds	rest	at	the	150)
1	×	100	swim-down:	easy	breaststroke
4	×	50	freestyle	build-ups	on	1:00
Skill	practice:	6	×	grab	start
4	×	50	freestyle	on	2:00	(use	grab	start	for	each)	1	×	400	kick:
swimmer’s	choice	or	combination;	alternate	1	minute	easy	with
1	minute	hard	kicking
Cool-down	(200	yards/meters)
4	×	50	easy	swim:	alternate	easy	breaststroke	with	double-arm
backstroke
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	8

Highlights:
	Starts	and	turns	practice	(see	
this	page
-
this	page
);
ascending/descending	timed	interval	set	(see	
this	page
)	
Total	Distance:
2,800	yards/meters
Warm-up	(600	yards/meters)
4	×	100	reverse	IM:	descending	set	on	2:30
4	×	50	freestyle	pull:	descending	set	on	1:15
Main	Set	(1,900	yards/meters)
3	×	300	mixed	swim:	begin	each	with	racing	dive	or	start;	1
minute	rest	after	each	300:	1×300	freestyle
1	×	300	backstroke
1	×	300	breaststroke
1	×	100	double-arm	backstroke	with	dolphin	kick	3×100	IM	on
2:00
Rest	as	needed
10×50	freestyle	ascending/descending	time	intervals	(from	1:00
to	:45,	by	5-second	intervals):	1	×	50	on	1:00
1	×	50	on	:55
1	×	50	on	:50
1	×	50	on	:45
1	×	50	easy	swim;	begin	next	50	on	following	:60	mark	on	clock
1	×	50	on:	45
1	×	50	on	:50
1	×	50	on	:55
1	×	50	on	1:00
1	×	50	easy	swim
1	×	100	easy	IM	kick
Cool-down	(300	yards/meters)
4	×	50	IM;	use	in-the-water	start	for	each	stroke	1	×	100	easy
swim
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	9
Highlights:
	Time	trial	with	negative	split	(see	
this	page
	and	
this	page
)
for	1,000	yards/meters	swim	
Total	Distance:
	2,900	yards/meters
Warm-up	(600	yards/meters)
12	×	50	pull-kick-swim	set,	swimmer’s	choice;	10	seconds	rest
after	each	50:	4×50	pull
4×50	kick
4	×	50	swim
Main	Set	(2,000	yards/meters)
4	×	100	freestyle	pull	on	2:00
Rest	as	needed
1	×	1,000	freestyle	time	trial	with	negative	split;	record	your
time;	pulse	check	1	×	100	swim-down
1×200	IM	kick
1	×	100	IM	swim
1×200	IM	kick
Cool-down	(300	yards/meters)
1	×	300	easy	swim:	swimmer’s	choice
S
UPER
	L
EVEL
	10

Highlights:
	Individual	medley	and	mixed-stroke	combination	sets;
controlled	breathing	swim	
Total	Distance:
	3,000	yards/meters
Warm-up	(600	yards/meters)
3	×	200	pull-kick-swim	set:	reverse	IM
1	×	200	reverse	IM	pull
1	×	200	reverse	IM	kick
1	×	200	reverse	IM	swim
Main	Set	(2,100	yards/meters)
1	×	1,800	mixed	stroke	set:	200s	alternating	with	50s	1×200	IM
on	4:00
8	×	50	freestyle	on	1:15
1×200	IM	on	4:00
6	×	50	breaststroke	on	1:15
1×200	IM	to	4:00
4	×	50	backstroke	on	1:15
1×200	IM	on	4:00
2×50	butterfly	on	1:15
1	×	100	easy	double-arm	backstroke
4	×	50	freestyle	controlled	breathing	set:	start	each	50	from	dive;
swim	odd-numbered	25s	on	one	breath;	even-numbered	25s
easy	swim
Cool-down	(300	yards/meters)
1	×	100	easy	supine	whip	kick
1	×	100	easy	freestyle	kick
1	×	100	easy	double-arm	backstroke
T
O
	V
ARY	THE
	W
ORKOUTS
Vary	your	workout	program,	following	these	guidelines	and	suggestions:
Total	distance:	3,000	yards/meters
Warm-up:	600	yards/meters
Main	set:	2,100	yards/meters
Cool-down:	300	yards/meters
Use	Levels	1-10	as	a	basis	for	mixing	and	matching	strokes,
skills,	drills,	and	distances
Use	the	suggestions	on	
this	page
	to	vary	your	workouts.	You
can	also	do	timed	intervals,	time	trials,	broken	swims,	build-
ups,	and	ascending/descending	pyramids.
See	also	the	specialized	workouts	suggested	in	“Swimming	to
Win,”	
this	page
–
this	page
.
Mix	and	match	the	following	samples	of	warm-ups,	cool-downs,
and	main	sets	to	make	up	a	total	workout.
Use	pulling	equipment	at	beginning	of	main	set;	use	kicking
equipment	at	end	of	main	set.
Include	the	following	freestyle	drills	in	your	Super	workouts:
fist	closed	pulling,	dig	freestyle,	end	head-up	freestyle	(see	
this
page
)
Suggestions	for	600-yard/meter	Warm-ups:
1.	6	×	100	IM	or	reverse	IM;	swim	continuously	or	on	a	2:00
interval;	pull	on	odd-numbered	laps	2.	1	×	60	freestyle;	on
odd-numbered	laps,	do	drills	such	as	one-arm	pull,	catch-up
freestyle,	and	glide	freestyle	3.	6	×	100	freestyle,	with
controlled	breathing;	continuous	or	on	an	interval:
1	×	25	regular	rhythmic	breathing
1	×	25	alternate	breathing
1	×	25	inhaling	on	every	fourth	stroke
1	×	25	inhaling	on	every	fifth	stroke	4.	1	×	600	freestyle	pull;
controlled	breathing	(inhale	every	fourth	pull)	on	every	even
25
25
5.	12×50	freestyle	descending	set	on	1:00	(swim	each	50	faster
than	previous	one)	6.	4	×	150	pull-kick-swim	freestyle	or
reverse	IM;	30	seconds	rest	after	each	150
7.	12	×	50	freestyle	pull-kick-swim	on	intervals:
4×50	pull	on	1:15	4×50	kick	on	1:30
4×50	swim	on	1:00
8.	12	×	50	swimmer’s	choice:
3×50	swim	on	1:00
3×50	pull	on	1:15
3×50	kick	on	1:30
3×50	swim	on	1:00
9.	1×200	best-stroke	pull
1	×	200	second-best-stroke	pull
1	×	100	third-best-stroke	pull
1	×	100	worst-stroke	pull
10.	1	×	600	freestyle	easy/hard	on	alternate	50s
Sample	Main	Sets	(total	distances	vary	as	indicated)
1.	Total	Distance:	2,000	yards/meters
Ascending/descending	set;	swimmer’s	choice	of
stroke:	8×50	on	1:00
4×100	on	2:00
2×200	on	4:00
4×100	on	2:00
8×50	on	1:00
2.	Total	Distance:	1,000	or	2,000	yards/meters
4	×	250	broken	swim	in	IM	order;	rest	5	seconds	per	lap:
1×250:
1×25	fly	(:05	rest);	1×50	fly,	back	(:10	rest);	1×75	fly,	back,
breast	(:15	rest);	1×100	fly,	back,	breast,	free	(:20	rest)
1×250:
1×25	back	(:05	rest);	1×50	back,	breast	(:10	rest);	1	×	75
back,	breast,	free	(:15	rest);	1	×	100	back,	breast,	free,	fly	(:20
back,	breast,	free	(:15	rest);	1	×	100	back,	breast,	free,	fly	(:20
rest)
1	×
250:
1	×	25	breast	(:05	rest);	1	×	50	breast,	free	(:10	rest);	1×75
breast,	free,	fly	(:15	rest);	1×100	breast,	free,	fly,	back	(:20
rest)
1	×
250:
1×25	free	(:05	rest);	1×50	free,	fly	(:10	rest);	1	×	75	free,	fly,
back	(:15	rest);	1	×	100	free,	fly,	back,	breast	(:20	rest)
Repeat	these	four	sets	(in	reverse	order,	if	desired)	to	total	2,000
yards/meters.
3.	Total	Distance:	2,100	yards/meters
Fins	Set;	50s	alternating	with	400s.	Use	fins	for	entire	main	set.
6	×	50:
dolphin	kick	on	1:30;	8	breaths	per	50
1	×	400:
200	butterfly;	200	freestyle
6	×	50:
supine	flutter	kick	on	1:00
1	×	400:
200	backstroke;	200	freestyle
6	×	50:
flutter	kick	on	1:30;	8	breaths	per	50
1	×	400:
freestyle
4.	Total	Distance:	1,000	yards/meters
Individual	Medley:	pull-kick-swim:
5×200:
repeat	the	following	sequence	for	each	of	5	strokes	(butterfly,
backstroke,	breaststroke,	freestyle,	swimmer’s	choice):
For	example:
1	×	50:
pull
1×50:
kick
1	×	100:
swim
5.	Total	Distance:	2,000	yards/meters
Controlled	Breathing	and	Stroke	Work:
1	×	200:
1	breath	per	3	strokes;	every	fourth	25	butterfly
1	×	200:
1	breath	per	3	strokes;	every	fourth	25	butterfly
3	×	100:
freestyle	on	2:30;	every	third	25	butterfly
1	×	200:
1	breath	per	4	strokes;	every	fourth	25	backstroke
3	×	100:
freestyle	on	2:30;	every	third	25	backstroke
1	×	200:
1	breath	per	3	strokes;	every	fourth	25	breaststroke
3	×	100:
freestyle	on	2:30;	every	third	25	breaststroke
1	×	200:
freestyle	or	choice
3	×	100:
freestyle	descending	on	2:30
6.	Total	Distance:	1,000	or	2,000	yards/meters
Individual	Medley:	pull-kick-swim	(equipment	optional
throughout)	1	×	600	(1	×	50	pull,	1	×	50	kick,	1	×	50	swim
for	each	stroke):	30	seconds	rest	after	each	150
1	×	150:
butterfly
1	×	150:
backstroke
1	×	150:
breaststroke
1	×	150:
freestyle
1	×	300	(1	×	25	pull,	1	×	25	kick,	1	×	25	swim	for	each
stroke,	without	equipment):
15	seconds	rest	after	each	75
1	×	75:
butterfly
1	×	75:
backstroke
1	×	75:
breaststroke
1	×	75:
freestyle
1	×	100	Individual	Medley:	easy	swim
Repeat	workout	to	total	2,000	yards/meters	7.	Total
Distance:	2,000	yards/meters
Broken	freestyle	and/or	your	best	stroke,	descending:
Broken	freestyle	and/or	your	best	stroke,	descending:
3	×	400:
1	×	200;	rest	20	seconds
1	×	100;	rest	15	seconds
2	×	50;	rest	10	seconds	after	each	50
2×300:
2	×	100;	rest	15	seconds	after	each	100
2	×	50	best	stroke;	rest	10	seconds	after	each	50
1×200:
1	×	100;	rest	15	seconds
2	×	50;	rest	10	seconds	after	each	50
8.	Total	Distance:	2,100	yards/meters
Individual	Medley	and	sprints:
1	×	200	IM	on	3:30
2	×	50	best	stroke	on	1:00
2	×	100	freestyle	on	2:00
1	×	200	IM	on	3:30
2	×	50	best	stroke	on	1:00
2	×	100	freestyle	on	1:50
1	×	100	easy	swim
1	×	200	IM	on	3:30
2	×	50	best	stroke	on	1:00
3	×	100	freestyle	on	1:40	1×200	IM	on	3:30
2	×	50	best	stroke	on	1:00
2	×	100	freestyle	on	1:30
9.	Total	Distance:	1,800	yards/meters
Sprints:	best	stroke
4	×	50	on	:50
3	×	100	build-ups;	best	stroke
1	×	100	easy	swim
4	×	50	on	:55
3	×	100	build-ups;	best	stroke
1	×	100	easy	swim
4×50	on	1:00
3	×	100	build-ups;	best	stroke
1	×	100	easy	swim
10.	Total	Distance:	2,000	yards/meters;	Estimated	Time:	40
minutes	Swim	for	a	specific	number	of	minutes	(i.e.,	5	minutes)
for	each	stroke	or	do	a	descending/ascending	length	of	time	for
each	stroke:	20-minute	set:
8	minutes	best	stroke
6	minutes	second-best	stroke
4	minutes	third-best	stroke
2	minutes	worst	stroke
Rest	as	needed
2	minutes	worst	stroke
4	minutes	third-best	stroke
6	minutes	second-best	stroke
8	minutes	best	stroke
VARIATIONS
:	If	there	is	no	clock,	do	a	set	distance	(i.e.,	250
yards/meters)	for	each	stroke,	as	above.	Or	do	the	strokes	in	IM
order,	then	repeat	in	reverse	IM	order.
Repeat	this	set	for	a	total	of	40	minutes.	This	is	good	for	a	small
or	irregularly	shaped	pool	(perhaps	you	can	swim	in	circles
around	the	perimeter).
Suggestions	for	300-yard/meter	Cool-downs:
1.	1	×	300	easy	swim,	any	stroke
2.	3×100:
1	×	100	glide	or	catch-up	freestyle	drill
1	×	100	catch-up	backstroke	drill
1	×	100	freestyle	
3.	6	×	50	easy	kick:
2	×	50	whip	kick
2	×	50	supine	flutter	kick
2	×	50	dolphin	kick	4.	6	×	50	freestyle,	or	swimmer’s	choice,
ascending	on	1:00	(swim	each	50	slower	than	previous	50)	5.	3
×	100	easy	kick:
1	×	100	dolphin	side-kick	drill
1	×	100	flutter	alternating	with	dolphin	every	10	beats
1	×	100	dolphin	kick-and-roll	drill	6.	3	×	100	pull-kick-swim,
any	stroke	or	combination	7.	3	×	100	easy-stroke	drills:
1	×	100	double-arm	backstroke
1	×	100	glide	backstroke
1	×	100	catch-up	freestyle	8.	6	×	50	easy	kick	alternating	with
sculling	on	every	50
9.	Easy	pull-kick-swim,	swimmer’s	choice:
1×50	pull
1	×	100	kick
1	×	100	swim	10.	Easy	5-minute	kick-swim,	swimmer’s	choice
S
WIMMING	TO	WIN
“S
WIMMERS
,	T
AKE
	Y
OUR
	M
ARKS
!”
“Why	am	I	here?	What	do	I	need	this	for?	I	thought	swimming	was
supposed	to	be	fun,	but	I	feel	terrible	…	I’m	going	to	be	sick.	I	should
have	gone	to	the	bathroom	…	maybe	I	should	go	
now
.	What	if	they	start
the	race	without	me?	I	hope	I	don’t	make	a	false	start;	what	if	my
goggles	slip	off	or	fog	up?	I	just	know	my	bathing	cap	is	going	to	fall
off	…	How	many	laps	is	this	race?	I	wonder	if	this	new	suit	looks	okay.	I
should	have	worn	my	lucky	one—so	what	if	it’s	last	year’s	model	and
falling	apart.	My	lucky	chain!	Oh	no,	I	forgot	my	lucky	chain!	That’s
okay,	I’m	going	to	beat	that	swimmer	over	there	this	time,	anyway.
What	if	the	timing	system	goes	out	of	whack	…	just	my	luck—I’ll	do	my
best	time	and	no	one	will	know	for	sure	and	I’ll	have	to	do	it	all	over
again,	and	I’ll	bet	I	won’t	swim	as	fast	as	the	first	time	…	IM?	What’s
that	…	let’s	see	fly,	back,	breast,	free—or	is	it	fly,	breast,	back,
free	…	or	…	uh-oh	…	I’d	better	concentrate,	the	starter	is	raising	his
arm,	the	gun’s	going	to	go	off	…	this	is	it!…”	BANG!
Something	like	that	goes	through	my	mind	every	time	I’m	on	the
starting	block,	and	if	it	sounds	like	fun	to	you	…	welcome	to	the	world
of	competitive	swimming!	Only	true	aqua-nuts	need	apply;	but	not	all
aqua-nuts	need	compete.	Advanced	and	Super	fitness	swimmers	can
benefit	from	the	more	intense	and	varied	workouts	and	training	concepts
in	this	section,	too.	So	I	hope	you’ll	take	at	least	a	peek	and	discover
what	goes	on	here.
“T
HE
	S
MELL	OF
	C
HLORINE,	THE
	R
OAR	OF	THE
	C
ROWD
,”	
OR
	“W
HY
	C
OMPETE
?”
As	you	may	have	gathered,	I	get	very,	very	nervous	before	a	race.	When
I’m	up	on	the	starting	block	I	usually	ask	myself,	Why	am	I	doing	this?
Not	only	is	no	one	paying	me,	but	I’m	investing	my	own	time,	money,
and	energy	to	be	here!	For	what?
Well,	part	of	it	is	the	discipline,	the	serious	training	that’s	necessary	if
you’re	going	to	compete.	It’s	been	a	part	of	my	life	for	just	about	as	long
as	I	can	remember.	But	the	thing	that’s	most	interesting	to	me	is	the	race
against	time—against	the	clock	that	measures	your	speed,	and	against
the	calendar	that	measures	your	age.	When	I	started	swimming	in	the
Masters	Program,	in	which	adults	nineteen	and	over	compete	against
swimmers	in	their	own	age	group,	I	was	almost	thirty.	Since	then	(and
now	in	my	fifth	decade),	my	times	for	the	most	part	have	steadily
improved!	Theoretically,	as	you	get	older,	you	get	slower.	But	I’m	not
the	only	swimmer	who’s	beaten	Father	Time.	This	is	one	case	where	the
well-worn	phrase	“You’re	not	getting	older,	you’re	getting	better”	really
does	apply.	(Or	at	least	if	you	are	getting	older,	you’re	getting	better	at
the	same	time.)	Time	is	so	
objective—
there	is	just	no	arguing	with	it.	I
compete	in	synchronized	swimming,	too,	where	one	is	judged	according
to	other	people’s	standards	and	tastes,	but	in	racing,	when	the	clock
stops,	you	know	exactly	how	good	you	were—period.	You	can	win	a
race	and	still	not	be	satisfied	with	your	own	time;	or	you	can	come	in
last	and	be	ecstatic	at	your	performance.
Why	
you
	choose	to	compete,	if	you	do,	will	depend	on	your	particular
circumstances	and	personality.	But	the	bottom	line	will	probably	be	the
challenge	…	to	test	your	abilities	to	the	utmost	…	and	then	to	improve
on	them.	You’ll	find	it	an	amazing	“high”	to	swim	competitively,	though
it’s	habit-forming—ask	any	chlorine	junkie.	Of	course,	it’s	an	even
greater	high	when	you	win.	And	don’t	say	that	you	couldn’t	possibly
win.	
You	can
.	It’s	no	pie-in-the-sky	dream.	Even	if	you	don’t	finish	first,
you’ll	still	win—in	one	form	or	another—no	matter	what	age	or	shape
you’re	in.	This	is	especially	true	if	you	swim	for	fitness	as	part	of	the
Masters	Program,	in	which	you’re	matched	against	swimmers	in	your
own	age	bracket.	But	even	when	there	are	other	swimmers	on	the
starting	blocks,	you	are	really	swimming	against	
yourself—
and	against
your	previous	best	times,	using	the	adrenaline-boosting	tendency	of
competition	to	help	you.
There’s	definitely	something	about	performing	under	pressure,	with
family,	friends,	and	teammates	rooting	for	you,	that	brings	out	the	best
in	some	people.	You	may	be	able	to	draw	on	reserves	that	you	never
knew	you	had.	Having	a	competitive	goal	to	strive	for	may	give	you	the
incentive	to	drive	yourself	to	see	if	you	have	“the	right	stuff”—to	satisfy
that	curiosity	that	almost	all	people	have	(but	won’t	always	admit	to)
about	just	how	good	they	really	can	be.
So,	if	you’ve	been	lap	swimming	for	a	while	and	are	doing	a	mile	or	so
during	a	workout,	and	you	ask	yourself,	Where	do	I	go	from	here?	you
should	consider	competing.	If	you’re	swimming	that	much,	you	“might
as	well	be	getting	some	more	out	of	it,”	as	one	recent	convert	put	it.	You
have	nothing	to	lose	and	everything	to	win!
W
HY
	Y
OU
	S
HOULD
	J
OIN	A
	S
WIM
	C
LUB
If	you	compete,	you	can	swim	either	as	part	of	a	team	or	“unattached.”	I
recommend	that	you	join	a	swim	club	if	at	all	possible.	Here’s	why.	First
of	all,	it’s	a	great	way	to	make	steady	friends	with	whom	you	share	the
joys	(and	the	woes!)	of	swimming.	This	sense	of	camaraderie,	of
belonging	to	a	team,	is	one	of	the	best	things	about	competitive
swimming.	My	Empire	Masters	Swim	Team,	in	New	York	City,	for
instance,	has	over	one	thousand	members.	One	is	a	dermatologist;
another	is	an	art	dealer;	there’s	a	fashion	model	and	a	swim	coach;	one
couple	writes	music	in	their	Manhattan	loft;	and	our	club	founder,	Jim
Forbes,	is,	fittingly	enough,	a	retired	U.S.	Coast	Guard-licensed	tugboat
captain.	So	not	only	do	you	meet	many	people,	you	have	the	opportunity
to	enjoy	many	types	of	people.	You	can	broaden	your	horizons	while	you
train	your	body.	You	also	have	a	unique	relationship	with	your
teammates—you	train	together,	help	one	another	over	the	rough	spots,
and	empathize	with	one	another;	but	you	may	also	be	racing	against
some	of	your	own	club	members	as	well	as	swimmers	from	other	teams.
Clubs	enable	you	to	whip	your	body	into	magnificent	shape	under	the
watchful	eye	(and	the	barking	voice)	of	a	coach.	Workouts	may	be
scheduled	daily,	and	may	include	dry-land	exercises	such	as	running,
weight	training,	calisthenics,	and	drills	in	each	competitive	stroke.	It’s
very	much	like	the	workouts	you’ve	been	doing	on	your	own,	only	more
intense.	And	perhaps	at	an	earlier	hour—some	clubs	meet	as	early	as	6
A.M.
	SO	that	swimmers	can	have	the	pool	to	themselves.	Some	people
travel	for	miles	to	work	out	at	that	insane	hour.	Why?	As	one	club
member	says,	“Because	it’s	fun;	and	I	need	the	discipline.	I’d	never	push
myself	that	hard.	I	need	someone	telling	me	what	to	do,	that	I	
can
	do	it.
To	yell	at	me,	‘Go,	go,	go!’	or	‘Shut	up	and	swim.’	”
If	you	want	to	compete,	call	your	local	Masters	group,	Y,	recreation
center,	high	school,	college,	or	swim	club	to	find	a	team	to	train	with.
S
PECIAL
	T
IPS	FOR
	C
OMPETITIVE
	S
WIMMERS
Swimmers	who	want	to	compete	should	take	certain	factors	into
consideration	when	they	train	in	order	to	make	sure	they’re	swimming
their	best.
Types	of	Events
First,	you	should	have	some	idea	of	the	event	or	events	you’d	like	to
participate	in.	Here’s	a	sampling	of	a	line-up	for	an	average	swim	meet:
Freestyle	events:
50	yards/meters
100	yards/meters
200	yards/meters
500	yards/400	meters
1,000	yards
1,650	yards/1,500	meters
Backstroke,	breaststroke,	and	butterfly	events:
50	yards/meters
100	yards/meters
200	yards/meters
Individual	Medley	events:
100	yards
200	yards/meters
400	yards/meters
Relay	events
	(These	events	may	mix	various	ages,	sexes,
distances,	and	strokes):	200	yards/meters
400	yards/meters
800	yards/meters
Open	or	“freestyle”	events:
	Usually	200	yards/meters	in	stroke
of	your	choice.	There	are	also	longer	distances	and	marathon
events	both	poolside	and	in	open	water.
As	you’ll	see	later,	the	way	you	train	will	depend	in	part	on	the	types
of	races	you	will	swim.
A	Swimmer	for	All	Seasons
There	are	two	main	competitive	swimming	seasons:	the	indoor	(short
course,	or	25-yard/meter	pools),	which	usually	occurs	October	to	May,
and	the	outdoor	(long	course,	or	50-yard/meter	pools),	which	occurs
June	through	September.	Both	of	these	seasons	are	classically	divided
into	three	stages	or	parts,	and	each	season	culminates	in	your	main
meet.	Which	part	of	the	season	it	is	and	which	event	or	events	you
specialize	in	determine	the	kinds	of	workouts	you	do.	Here	is	a
description	of	each	part	of	the	swimming	season,	as	well	as	suggestions
for	specialized	workouts	to	be	done	at	specific	times	to	help	you	train
most	effectively	for	your	event.
As	you	train,	fine	tune	your	skills,	paying	careful	attention	to	the
checklists	and	catalogs	of	common	errors	provided	for	each	stroke	in
Part	Two,	“The	Techniques	of	Swimming.”	Make	sure	you’re	proficient
in	those	little	extras	that	can	make	a	crucial	difference	in	your	final
times:	flip	turns;	open	turns	for	the	breaststroke	and	butterfly;	wind-up,
grab,	and	relay	starts.	Chances	are	that	the	other	swimmers	will	be	using
them	to	advantage—so	why	shouldn’t	you?
1.	Early	Season
	(approximately	four	to	eight	weeks):	At	this	time,
concentrate	on	general	conditioning,	using	long,	easy	swims	and	a
variety	of	strokes	and	distances	up	to	two	miles	(such	as	those	suggested
in	the	Super	Workouts).	In	addition,	I	suggest	that	you	supplement	your
swimming	with	dry-land	activities	that	will	improve	your	strength,
flexibility,	and	cardiovascular	conditioning—such	as	aerobics,	stretching
and	running,	and	exercises	using	stretch	cords	and	weights.	(See
“Swimmers’	Shape-ups,”	
this	page
.)	Samples	of	early	season	workouts
begin	on	
this	page
.
2.	Mid-Season
	(six	to	twelve	weeks):	Your	workouts	should	include	a
relatively	consistent	yardage	(about	3,000	yards/meters),	and	you
should	begin	to	fine	tune	your	strokes,	particularly	your	specialty	or
specialties.	You	should	do	some	stroke	work	as	well	as	some	distance
and	timed	swims.	Dry-land	training	should	be	held	at	maintenance	level
during	this	time.	You	should	also	pay	particular	attention	to	your	resting
and	eating	habits	and	your	flexibility,	and	perhaps	take	vitamin	and
mineral	supplements	(go	easy	on	the	junk-palace	foods!).	Typical	mid-
season	training	workouts	begin	on	
this	page
.
3.	Taper	and	Peak
	(average	two	weeks	before	your	biggest	meet):
This,	the	shortest	part	of	the	swimming	season,	is	the	time	during	which
you	prepare	yourself	physically	and	mentally	for	your	stiffest
competition.	Generally	the	aim	is	to	concentrate	on	higher-quality,
lower-quantity	swimming.	As	you	get	nearer	and	nearer	the	actual	race,
your	total	yardage	decreases,	but	your	times	should	approach	racing
speed.	You	do	this	by	resting	more	between	sets,	doing	broken	swims,
swimming	descending	sets,	doing	stroke	drills,	and	practicing	starts	and
turns	to	improve	technique.
The	average	taper	lasts	one	to	two	weeks,	but	this	depends	on	how
long	and	how	hard	you’ve	trained	during	the	rest	of	the	season,	and	on
your	event	and	distance	specialty.	The	longer	your	event,	the	shorter	the
taper.	For	example,	a	sprinter	would	taper	about	ten	days,	whereas	a
distance	swimmer’s	taper	might	be	only	five	days.	Because	of	the	taper,
you	bring	your	mind	and	your	body	to	peak	performance.	The	length	of
your	peak	may	last	about	half	as	long	as	your	taper.	Suggested	taper	and
peak	workouts	begin	on	
this	page
.
After	your	big	race,	you	may	experience	a	physical	and	mental
letdown.	At	this	time	you	may	want	to	take	a	break	from	your	training.
Or	you	may	want	to	abbreviate	your	workouts.
S
PECIALIZED
	W
ORKOUTS
—N
OT	FOR
	C
OMPETITIVE
	S
WIMMERS
	O
NLY
The	workouts	below	are	really	meant	to	be	used	by	Super-level
swimmers	whether	they	compete	or	not.	They’re	for	any	swimmer	of	any
age	who	simply	wants	to	swim	faster	and	better.	Many	fitness	swimmers
(I
	hope)	will	reach	the	stage	where	they’re	ready	to	specialize,	to
concentrate	on	doing	one	or	more	strokes	and/or	distances	really	well
even	if	they	never	attend	a	single	meet.
These	workouts	are	about	3,000	yards/meters,	and	so	will	give	you
plenty	of	ideas	for	varying	the	Super	Workouts,	too.	The	workouts	are
organized	to	coincide	with	the	three	parts	of	a	competitive	season,	and
include	samples	and	training	concepts	for	distance	and	marathon	swims,
sprints,	middle-distance	swims,	and	for	peaking	and	tapering.
When	following	the	workouts,	make	sure	that	you	adjust	all	intervals
to	your	own	needs	and	capabilities.	Don’t	forget	to	take	it	easy	during
the	warm-ups	and	cool-downs,	which	are	an	important	part	of	every
workout.
E
ARLY
	S
EASON
	W
ORKOUTS
Distance,	Overdistance,	and	Marathon	Swims
Early	in	the	season,	concentrate	on	distance	swims	to	build	your
endurance.	One	good	way	to	do	this	is	a	timed	broken	swim	of	1,650
yards/1,500	meters;	variations	follow.
1.	Timed	Broken	1,650	yard/1,500	meter	workout
Warm-up	(800	yards/meters)
8	×	100	freestyle/swimmer’s	choice:
2	×	100	easy	swim
1	×	100	with	paddles
1	×	100	with	paddles	and	pull-buoy
1	×	100	with	pull-buoys
1	×	100	catch-up	freestyle
2	×	100	easy	swim
Main	Set	(2,300	yards/2,150	meters)
2	×	300	(sustain	pace	of	first	50	for	entire	set):
1	×	50;	5	seconds	rest
1	×	100;	10	seconds	rest
1	×	150;	15	seconds	rest
Repeat
Rest	as	needed
l,650-yards/l,500-meter	freestyle:	broken
1	×	500;	30	seconds	rest
1	×	400;	25	seconds	rest
1	×	300;	20	seconds	rest
1	×	200;	15	seconds	rest
1	×	100;	10	seconds	rest
(If	you’re	swimming	in	a	long-course	pool,	this	completes	your
1,500-meter	broken	swim.)	Variation	(slightly	shorter	distance):
Divide	swim	into	thirds	(490	yards/450	meters)	with	a	30-
second	rest	interval	after	each	third.
1	×	100;	5	seconds	rest
1×50
(If	you’re	swimming	in	a	25-yard	pool,	this	completes	your
broken	swim.)
broken	swim.)
Cool-down	(400	yards/meters)
1	×	200	easy	kick,	with	or	without	fins
1	×	200	easy	swim
2.	Descending	2-mile	distance	swim;
	rest	1:00	between	each	swim:
1×1	mile
1	×	½	mile
1	×	¼	mile
2	×	⅛	mile
3.	Fartlek	Swim
	(Easy-hard,	pyramid-fashion,	continuous,	3,400-
yard/meter	swim)
2×50
2×100
2×200
2×300
2×400
2×300
2×200
2×100
2×50
4.
	
Circle	Swimming
If	you	are	in	a	small	or	irregularly	shaped	pool,	or	a	small	area	of	open
water,	swim	in	a	circle	around	the	perimeter;	change	direction	after	half
your	swim,	and	perhaps	change	your	stroke.	(Count	your	circles,	if	you
like.)	To	cool	down,	tread	and/or	swim	easily	for	5-10	minutes.
5.
	
Open-water	Swimming
Another	way	to	get	in	your	overdistance	is	to	swim	long	stretches	in
open	water,	such	as	a	lake	or	the	ocean.	This	can	be	most	enjoyable.
Here	the	idea	is	to	swim	from	one	point	to	another	at	a	steady	pace.	(It’s
also	done	as	a	competitive	event	for	time	or	distance,	such	as	in	a
triathlon.)	
Warm	up	thoroughly	on	land,	with	jumping	jacks,	arm	circles,
jogging	in	place,	and	easy	stretching.	Begin	your	swim	at	an	easy,	steady
pace	for	the	first	1,000	yards/meters,	or	approximately	fifteen	minutes.
Concentrate	on	pulling.
As	you	continue	into	the	main	part	of	your	swim,	focus	on	the
following:
Keep	a	steady	pace	throughout	the	swim.
Periodically	check	your	time	and/or	distance.
Swim	in	as	straight	a	line	as	possible.	Do	bilateral	breathing.
If	you	get	tired	or	bored,	or	if	you	get	a	“stitch,”	change	strokes.
Think	about	your	stroke	techniques	when	your	mind	begins	to
wander.
Heed	the	following	open-water	Safety	and	Comfort	Tips:
Prior	to	your	open-water	swim,	check	tides,	temperature,
currents,	sea	life,	and	salinity	of	the	water.
If	you’re	in	an	open-water	race,	check	the	positioning	at	start.
Stay	clear	of	other	swimmers	(unless	you	like	contact
swimming).
Keep	an	eye	on	your	swimming	course,	using	buoys	and
markers	and/or	other	swimmers	as	guides.
Use	alternate	breathing	to	change	your	pace,	check	your
position,	and	relax	your	neck	muscles.
If	signs	of	impending	hypothermia,	or	cooling	of	the	body’s	core
temperature,	develop	(such	as	blue	or	numb	fingers),	don’t	be	a
martyr.
M
ID
-S
EASON
	W
ORKOUTS

Specialty	Strokes,	Distances,	Individual	Medley	Workouts
During	this	part	of	your	swim	season	you	want	to	hold	to	a	total	distance
of	approximately	3,000	yards/meters	per	workout	and	concentrate	on
your	specialty.	The	following	two	freestyle	workouts	are	examples	that
can	be	adapted	to	other	strokes.
1
.	
Sprint	Freestyle:
	This	includes	a	time	trial	to	help	you	achieve	the
“perfect	100”:	suppress	the	kick	on	the	first	50,	and	accelerate	it	for	the
second	50.
Warm-up:	(600	yards/meters)
6×50	pull	on	1:00
4×	50	catch-up	freestyle	drill;	alternate	breathing	on	1:00
4×25	body	position	drill	on	1:00:	prone	position,	head	up;	arms
extended	forward	underwater;	scull	as	you	flutter	kick	and	keep
shoulders	as	high	as	possible.
Main	Set:	(2,100	yards/meters)
4	×	200	freestyle	broken	swim	on	4:00;	rest	10	seconds	at	100
and	150;	pull	first	100
1	×	100	easy	breaststroke
5	×	100	freestyle	on	2:00;	pull	first	50
1	×	50	easy	swim
10	×	50	descending	set:	time	interval	decreases	by	2	seconds;
starting	interval	1:00
50s
Leave	on
Time	interval
1
:60
1:00
2
:60
:58
3
:58
:56
4
:54
:54
4
:54
:54
5
:50
:52
6
:44
:50
7
:36
:48
8
:26
:46
9
:14
:42
10
:60
Set	ends	on	40
1	×	50	easy	swim;	rest	as	needed
1	×	100	timed	swim:	to	swim	the	“perfect	100,”	try	to	pull	the
first	50,	suppressing	the	kick,	then	accelerate	the	kick	during
the	final	50.	Record	your	time	and	make	a	pulse	check.
Cool-down:	(300	yards/meters)
6	×	50	easy	kick-swim	set
2.	Middle-distance	Freestyle:
	This	workout	includes	a	broken	200-
yard/meter	swim	during	which	you	should	approach	your	best	time.	To
get	your	final	time,	subtract	your	rest	periods.
Warm-up:	(600	yards/meters)
1	×	200	easy	swim
4×50	catch-up	one-arm	pull	on	1:00	(swim	easily,	so	that	you
just	make	the	interval	and	get	very	little	rest)	1	×	200	easy	IM
Main	Set:	(2,100	yards/meters)
1	×	400
1	×	200	pull
1	×	200	swim
1	×	100	pull	with	pull-buoy	at	ankles	(with	paddles)
1	×	100	swim
1	×	100	swim
30	seconds	rest
1	×	100	pull	with	pull-buoy	above	knees	(with	paddles)
1	×	100	swim
30	seconds	rest
1	×	100	pull	with	paddles	only
1	×	100	swim
Rest	as	needed
1	×	150	IM	without	freestyle	(butterfly,	backstroke,	and
breaststroke	only)	1	×	50	easy	swim
1	×	100	flutter	kick	with	fins
1	×	50	easy	swim
Rest	as	needed
1	×	200	broken	swim
1	×	100:	concentrate	on	pull	(rest	interval:	10	seconds)
1	×	50:	sprint
Check	pulse.
Cool-down:	(300	yards/meters)
2	×	150	easy	pull,	kick,	swim
3.	Butterfly	Main	Set:
	Do	mixed	swim	sets,	because	the	butterfly	is
such	a	strenuous	stroke.	For	example,	you	might	break	up	a	set	of	150s
this	way:	4×150	on	4:00:
first	and	third	150:	1	×	50	freestyle,	1	×	50	butterfly,	1	×	50
freestyle	second	and	fourth	150:	1	×	50	butterfly,	1	×	50
freestyle,	1	×	50	butterfly
Add	some	dolphin-kick	drills,	some	butterfly	pulling,	and	some
controlled	breathing	drills	to	your	workout,	too.
4.	Backstroke	Main	Set:
	You	can	also	do	descending	sets	and/or
negative	splits	during	a	main	set	(this	is	more	appropriate	for	freestylers
and	breaststrokers,	than	for	butterfliers	or	IM	specialists).	For	example:
2	×	200	backstroke	on	3:30:	negative	split	by	swimming	second	half	of
each	200	faster	than	the	first	half	(glance	at	the	clock	when	you	make
the	first	100)	and/or:
6	×	50	backstroke	swim,	descending	on	1:00:	swim	each	50	a	second	or
two	faster	than	the	previous	one.
5.	Breaststroke	Main	Set:
	One	thing	to	concentrate	on	here	is	stroke
drills.	Since	there	have	been	so	many	innovations	in	this	stroke,	most
swimmers’	breaststroke	could	use	some	technique	work.	For	example,
you	could	begin	the	main	set	this	way:	4	×	150	breaststroke	drills	(30
seconds	rest	between	each	150):
1	×	150	pull	with	dolphin	kick
1	×	150	pull-pull-kick	drill
1	×	150	whip	kick	(keep	hands	at	buttocks)
1	×	150	one-arm	breaststroke	drill
You	could	also	add	a	descending	set	of	5	×	100,	and	some	controlled
breathing	swims	to	help	your	underwater	pull-out.
6.	Individual	Medley	Main	Set:
	Here	the	trick	is	to	swim	all	four
competitive	strokes	as	a	separate	“event”	in	the	workout,	each	event,	or
set,	being	introduced	with	an	IM	swim.	For	instance,	in	an	IM	4	×	450
main	set	of	2,100	yards/meters,	the	butterfly	set	might	be:
1×450	on	11:00
1	×	200	IM	on	4:00
1	×	100	dolphin	kick	on	2:30
2	×	50	butterfly	on	1:30	(1	×	50	pull,	1	×	50	swim)
1	×	50	easy	swim-down	on	1:30
Repeat	for	the	backstroke,	breaststroke,	and	freestyle,	beginning	each
450-yard	set	with	a	200	IM,	followed	by	a	kick	drill,	a	pull-swim	drill,
and	a	swim-down,	as	above,	for	each	stroke.	(Adjust	the	interval	times	if
needed.)	For	variations	in	your	Individual	Medley	workouts,	you	can
also	reverse	the	order	of	the	IM	(i.e.,	freestyle,	breaststroke,	backstroke,
butterfly).	Also,	in	a	50-meter	pool	you	can	do	100	IMs	by	changing
strokes	at	the	halfway	mark.
E
ND-OF
-S
EASON
	T
APER-AND
-P
EAK
	W
ORKOUTS
Quality	Versus	Quantity
A	typical	taper	workout	is	about	2,000	yards/meters,	with
approximately	one	third	allocated	each	to	the	warm-up,	main	set,	and
cool-down.	Peak	workouts	are	about	1,000	yards/meters,	and	are
divided	up	this	way:	two	fifths	warm-up,	one	fifth	main	set,	and	two
fifths	cool-down.
1.	Taper	workout	for	middle-distance	(200	yards/meters)	swimmers:
This	might	include	a	timed	broken	200-yard/meter	freestyle	swim.	Be
sure	to	practice	your	starts	and	turns	during	the	swim	and	add	a	few
practice	drills	at	the	end	of	the	cool-down.	Total	Distance:	2,000
yards/meters
Warm-up	(700	yards/meters):
3	×	200	easy	pull-kick-swim,	freestyle	or	swimmer’s	choice
1	×	100	freestyle:	catch-up	stroke	drill
Main	Set	(700	yards/meters)
8	×	50	freestyle	descending	on	1:00
1	×	100	easy	swim
Rest	as	needed.
Timed	Swim:	1	×	200	broken	swim	5-10	seconds	rest	after	each	50
Check	pulse.
VARIATIONS:
During	the	timed	200,	you	can	break	the	distance	into	swims
other	than	50s;	for	example,	100,	50,	50;	or	50,	100,	50;	or
100,	50,	25,	25.	(Go	for	90	to	100	percent	effort.)
Cool-down	(600	yards/meters)
3	×	200	easy	swim-kick-swim
2.	Race	Pace	Workout:
	Approach	your	racing	pace	by	expending	80
to	90	percent	effort.
Total	Distance:	1,000	yards/meters
Warm-up	(400	yards/meters)
1	×	200	easy	swim
4×50	build-ups	on	2:00
Main	Set	(200	yards/meters)
For	distance	swimmer:	to	get	feel	of	and	approach	racing	pace
Timed	2	×	100:10	seconds	rest	between
For	middle-distance	swimmer:	to	get	the	feel	of	the	first	50	of	a
200
3×50	on	2:00
Rest	as	needed
Timed	1	×	50:	swim	this	distance	as	though	it	were	the	first	50
of	a	200-yard	race
For	sprinters:	to	get	a	fast	turnover	(speeding	up	the	entire
stroke	cycle)	2	×	75	on	2:00;	broken	at	50	with	10	seconds	rest
Rest	as	needed
2	×	25	timed	swim:	start	from	racing	dive
Rest	as	needed
Cool-down	(400	yards/meters)
1	×	100	easy	swim
3	×	100	pull-kick-swim
Starts	and	turns
Y
OUR
	F
IRST
	S
WIM
	M
EET
Get	Ready	…
To	find	out	where	and	when	local	meets	are	to	be	held,	contact	your
local	Y,	school	swim	team,	or	community	center.	You	can	also	write	the
U.S.	Masters	Swimming	office	or	use	the	listings	in	one	of	the	periodicals
listed,	beginning	on	
this	page
.
Once	you’ve	decided	to	enter	a	meet,	the	first	thing	you	have	to	do	is
become	registered	with	U.S.	Masters	Swimming,	Inc.	Then	get	an	official
entry	blank	from	the	sponsoring	organization.	Fill	it	out	and	sent	it	in	as
instructed.	There	is	usually	a	specified	fee	for	each	event	you	wish	to
enter.
Be	sure	to	enter	events	that	you’re	comfortable	with.	In	addition	to
your	fitness	level,	consider	the	distance,	stroke,	and	the	spacing	of
events.	For	example,	for	your	first	meet	you	should	choose	events	near
the	beginning	and	end	of	the	schedule,	so	that	you’ll	have	plenty	of	rest
in	between.
For	your	first	meet,	you	should	probably	enter	one	to	three	individual
events.	Next	time	you	can	enter	more	if	you	feel	up	to	it.	And	remember,
you	don’t	have	to	swim	even	if	you’ve	entered;	you	can	change	your
mind	at	the	last	minute.	But	sending	in	your	entry	is	a	commitment,	and
most	people	who	enter	actually	compete.
A	few	days	before	the	race	you’ll	probably	experience	pre-meet	jitters.
This	is	a	phenomenon	that	affects	almost	everybody—young	or	old,	new
or	experienced.	I	still	get	them,	and	I’ve	been	competing	for	forty	plus
years.	So	don’t	be	surprised	if	you	feel	anything	from	a	few	butterflies	in
your	stomach	to	all-out	nervous	diarrhea.
You	may	begin	to	feel	unsure	of	yourself.	You’ll	hear	yourself	saying,
Oh,	God,	I	feel	so	out	of	shape.	I’m	sick.	I	feel	paralyzed.	Why	am	I
doing	this?	Here	I	am	spending	another	perfectly	good	Saturday	at	the	Y.
All	my	friend	and	family	think	I’m	crazy—maybe	they’re	right.
This	time	your	teammates	come	in	really	handy.	An	understanding
spouse,	friend,	or	relative	can	help,	too.	Lucky	for	me,	I	come	from	a
swimming	family—my	mother,	father,	brother,	and	sisters	all	swim.
Invite	your	family	to	the	meet,	whether	they’re	swimmers	or	not,	so	that
they	can	give	you	support.	Nothing	will	give	you	a	bigger	kick	than
having	your	own	rooting	section.
Of	course,	you’ll	be	more	confident	if	your	body	has	been	trained,
tapered,	and	peaked	properly.	But	have	you	trained	your	mind?	The	best
athletes	know	that	mental	preparation	is	one	of	the	most	important	parts
of	any	training	program.	You’d	be	surprised	at	the	difference	the	state	of
your	psyche	can	make	in	your	performance.
To	help	improve	performance,	many	swimmers	use	mental	imagery,
imagining	beforehand	every	second	of	an	upcoming	race:	the	pool,	the
crowd,	the	lane	markers,	the	starting	block,	the	signal	go,	the	feel	of	the
water,	their	first	stroke,	their	breathing	pattern,	their	turn,	and	so	on
until	the	end	of	the	race,	where	they	win	(or	swim	their	best	time).	This
mental	practice	can	also	be	used	during	workouts	(just	before	a	sprint	or
a	timed	swim).	Like	a	dancer	or	an	actor,	you	must	rehearse	the	race
physically	and	mentally	many	times	before	the	actual	“performance,”
thinking	through	every	lap,	stroke	by	stroke	and	turn	by	turn,	from	start
to	finish,	until	you’re	sure	you	know	every	nuance	of	the	race.
Get	set	…
On	the	day	of	the	meet,	it’s	psychologically	and	logistically	(and
sometimes	ecologically)	a	good	idea	to	travel	with	other	people—
especially	if	they’re	swimmers.	(You’ll	find	sympathetic	company
valuable.)
What	to	Take
In	all	the	excitement,	you	might	forget	an	item	or	two,	so	use	this
checklist	as	a	reminder.	I	find	a	large	water-repellent	duffel	bag	with
extra	pockets	ideal	for	carrying	my	paraphernalia.
A	copy	of	your	U.	S.	Masters	Swimming	Registration	Card.
Bathing	suits.	Take	one	for	warm-up	and	one	racing	suit	for
each	event	in	which	you’ll	be	competing.	Change	into	a	dry	suit
after	each	event.
Bathing	cap,	if	you	wear	one	(take	an	extra,	just	in	case).
Goggles.	Take	two	pairs.
Towels.	Take	at	least	two.	(Chamois	are	great.)
Toiletries	and	grooming	aids.	Don’t	forget	your	shampoo	and
conditioner,	baby	oil,	soap,	cotton	swabs,	ear,	eye,	or	nose
drops.	Use	plastic	bottles	for	safety.
Plastic	bags.	To	tote	wet	things	home.
Lambswool	or	earplugs.	If	you	need	to	keep	water	out	of	your
ears.
Sneakers,	socks,	warm-up	suit,	and	T-shirts.	To	wear	between
events,	over	your	suit;	helps	to	keep	you	from	getting	chilled.
Lock.	For	storing	your	valuables	in	a	locker.
If	you’re	competing	outdoors,	take	a	hat,	appropriate	SPF
suntan	lotion,	sunglasses,	maybe	an	umbrella	to	protect	you
from	the	sun.
You	might	want	to	have	team	T-shirts	printed	up.	Of	course,	T-shirts
(and	bathing	caps)	can	be	made	to	say	anything	these	days;	my	favorites
are	my	“excuse”	T-shirts	and	caps,	which	give	such	tried-and-true
explanations	as:
I	put	my	earplugs	in	my	nose
I	thought	it	was	the	backstroke
The	stopwatch	didn’t	work
I	was	saving	something	for	the	finals
My	suit	fell	off
I	tapered	too	much
I’m	allergic	to	chlorine
My	goggles	leaked
It	was	a	false	start
You	may	want	to	take	some	healthful	snacks	like	nuts,	fruit,	or	juices
—you	may	find	a	snack	bar,	gratis	buffet,	or	vending	machines	at	the
meet,	but	you	never	know.
There	will	be	a	check-in	post	in	the	lobby	or	at	poolside,	where	you
pick	up	the	entry	cards	that	you	sent	in	earlier	or	a	program,	or	heat
sheet.	Your	cards	will	now	have	been	filled	in	with	your	
heat
,	as	well	as
your	lane	number.	The	program	indicates	the	order	or	events	and	heats,
the	entrants,	their	age	groups,	and	their	seed	times.	These	heats	are
usually	set	up	so	that	you	swim	with	people	close	to	your	seed	time.
Within	each	heat,	the	swimmers	are	arranged	so	that	the	fastest	are	in
the	center	lanes	and	the	slower	swimmers	are	in	the	outer	lanes.
Next,	proceed	to	the	locker	room.	Locate	the	bathroom	for	future
reference,	a	locker,	and	change	into	your	warm-up	swim	suit.	If	you
have	long	hair	(this	goes	for	guys,	too)	secure	it	with	an	elastic	band
before	you	put	on	your	bathing	cap;	if	your	cap	shifts	during	the	race,
this	will	keep	your	hair	from	falling	in	your	eyes.	Remove	all	jewelry.
In	most	cases,	it’s	best	to	lock	your	valuables	in	the	locker	and	to	keep
out	only	what	you	need—extra	suits,	towels,	sweat	suit,	
etc.
	Leave	the
essentials	in	your	bag	and	take	it	poolside	with	you.
Next,	do	a	warm-up	and	check	out	the	pool.	Get	in	the	water	and
loosen	up	with	a	few	laps.	As	you	do	so,	see	how	“fast”	the	pool	is.
Check	the	wall	of	the	pool;	some	may	be	slippery	and	others	may	cause
the	water	to	splash	up	in	waves	as	you	turn.	Is	the	pool	wavy?	If	so,	it
may	affect	your	comfort	and	speed.	If	the	backstroke	is	one	of	your
events,	count	the	number	of	strokes	it	takes	you	to	go	from	the	overhead
flags	to	the	wall.	See	whether	
touch	pads
	for	electronic	timing	are	in
place	against	the	wall,	just	under	the	starting	block.
If	so,	be	sure	to	touch	the	pad	strongly	when	you	finish,	so	that	it
stops	your	time.	(There	are	usually	back-up	hand	timers	just	in	case.)
Take	a	few	practice	dives	to	test	the	starting	blocks.	If	you’re	in	a	relay,
practice	a	few	exchanges	with	your	teammates.	
Goggles
	are	optional
during	a	race.	For	a	longer	distance,	you	may	even	want	to	use	an	in-the-
water	start	so	that	you	don’t	risk	your	goggles	slipping	off.	However,	if
you	tighten	them	up	and	keep	your	chin	tucked	on	entry,	they	should	be
fine.
The	pre-race	warm-up	should	bring	your	pulse	up	the	same	way	it
does	during	a	workout.	It	should	get	you	loose,	stretched,	and	relaxed;
establish	your	breathing	pattern;	and	warm	up	your	stroke.	If	you’re	in
shape	and	ready,	a	warm-up	will	not	tire	you	out.	On	the	contrary,	it
will	help	
get	you	going
.	If	you’re	not	in	your	best	shape,	do	an
abbreviated,	easier	warm-up.
A	
pre-race	warm-up
	should	begin	with	a	long,	easy	swim,	followed	by
stroke	drills,	then	by	a	set	to	bring	your	heart	rate	up.	It	should	total
approximately	1,000	yards/meters	(or	about	one	third	of	your	daily
yardage).
Here’s	a	sample	pre-race	warm-up:
1	×	200	easy	swim
1	×	200	stroke	and	kick	drills
1	×	200	pull
1	×	300	pace	set:	6	×	50	on	a	comfortable	interval;	sprinters
should	do	faster	interval,	with	build-up	50s	1	×	100	easy	swim
Finish	by	practicing	starts	and	turns.	Diving	starts	are	permitted
in	designated	sprint	lanes,	swimming	only	in	one	direction.
After	warming	up,	go	back	to	the	locker	room	and	change	into	a	dry
racing	suit.	If	you	were	a	bit	nervous	before,	warming	up	should	have
calmed	you	down	a	bit	(although	you	may	find	that	your	suit	is	awfully
difficult	to	get	on!).
Go!
When	it’s	time	for	you	to	step	onto	the	starting	block,	concentrate	on
how	you’re	going	to	swim	the	race.	Try	to	be	relaxed	but	alert.	Take	a
few	deep	breaths	to	calm	you	down,	but	don’t	overdo	it.
During	the	race,	concentrate	on	your	actual	performance.	Try	to	swim
it	exactly	as	you’ve	planned;	don’t	let	the	presence	of	your	competitors
cause	you	to	deviate	from	your	strategy.	They	may	be	ahead	of	you	or
behind	you—but	who	knows	how	they’ve	planned	to	swim	the	race?
Try	to	get	someone	to	note	your	intermediate	times	(your	splits).
Usually	the	timer	for	your	lane	will	do	this	if	you	ask,	or	have	a	friend
with	a	stopwatch	take	them	for	you.	During	longer	races,	such	as	500s	or
1,650s,	lap	counters	will	tell	you	(visually	or	orally)	how	many	laps
you’ve	completed.
After	the	race,	whatever	the	results,	stay	in	the	water	to	cool	down
and	to	allow	your	pulse	to	return	to	normal.	If	there’s	a	warm-up/cool-
down	pool	nearby,	do	a	few	easy	laps.	If	not,	do	some	bobbing,	sculling,
or	floating.	It’s	much	better	to	cool	down	in	the	water.	The	cool	water
will	help	disperse	the	extra	body	heat.
During	the	cool-down,	think	about	your	reasons	for	competing.	You
may	be	disappointed	this	time,	but	there’s	always	a	next	time;	no	one
can	be	the	best	or	even	do	his	best	at	every	meet.	And	remember	that
the	word	“compete”	comes	from	the	Latin	
competere
,	meaning	“to	strive
together.”	Most	people	assume	that	the	idea	is	to	strive	
against
	one
another,	to	put	winning	above	all	else.	But	if	you	think	of	swimming	as	a
constructive,	creative	activity	that	helps	you	develop	as	a	person,	that
mixes	seriousness	with	fun,	you’ll	realize	that,	whatever	the	order	of
finish,	you	have	nothing	to	lose.
P
ART	FIVE
EQUIPMENT
	
A
ll	you	really	need	to	swim	is	a	pool,	a	suit,	and	perhaps	a	cap	and
goggles.	When	used	judiciously,	though,	the	training	devices	described
here	can	help	you	to	vary	your	workouts,	refine	your	techniques,	learn
new	skills,	and	accelerate	and	intensify	the	conditioning	process.	They
can	be	invaluable	in	getting	you	over	a	hump	or	in	surmounting	a
plateau.	They’re	also	fun	to	use—either	alone	or	in	the	combinations
suggested.	(Don’t	get	carried	away	and	try	to	use	everything	at	once!)
The	pool	where	you	work	out	may	supply	some	training	devices;	if	so,
they	may	be	lying	around	pool-side.	If	you	don’t	see	any,	ask	for	them;
they	may	simply	be	stored	away	somewhere.	If	your	pool	doesn’t
provide	basic	equipment,	you	can	always	take	your	own.	All	of	the
equipment	discussed	here	can	be	found	at	a	well-equipped	sporting
goods	store,	but	if	an	item	isn’t	available	locally,	contact	one	of	the
supplier	manufacturers	listed	at	the	end	of	this	chapter.	Sources	of
information	about	swimming,	the	best	books,	periodicals,	and	films,	are
listed	there,	too.
P
OOLS
All	pools	are	definitely	not	created	equal.	A	good	pool	is	worth	looking
for,	paying	for,	and	even	traveling	for.	So	carefully	consider	your	needs,
preferences,	and	level	of	ability	when	selecting	one.	When	you’re	away
from	home,	you	may	not	have	much	of	a	choice;	but	shop	around	for
your	regular	pool,	keeping	the	following	factors	in	mind.
Size:
	Pool	sizes	vary	greatly.	Let’s	begin	at	the	top,	with	the	two	sizes
that	are	the	most	desirable.	First,	there	are	the	“long-course”	pools.
These	
50-meter	(sometimes	55-yard)	pools	are	common	on	the	West
Coast,	where	they’re	usually	outdoors.	Many	universities	throughout	the
country	also	have	indoor	and	outdoor	long-course	pools,	though,	and
they	often	allow	community	members	to	use	them	during	certain	hours.
In	addition,	private	clubs	with	good	facilities	often	house	a	50-meter
pool	complex	and	have	a	team	that	you	can	train	with.	Long-course
pools	are	terrific	for	intermediate,	advanced,	and	competitive-level
workouts.	They’re	usually	well	designed	and	fully	equipped	with	lane
markers	for	lap	swimming,	pace	clocks,	and	training	devices	such	as
kickboards,	pull-buoys,	and	hand	paddles.	This	is	the	only	truly
“Olympic	size”	pool;	anything	shorter,	no	matter	what	advertisers	may
claim,	is	not.	(By	the	way,	you	should	be	aware	that	swimming	in	a
long-course	pool	is	a	different	experience	from	swimming	in	a	shorter
pool:	it’s	more	strenuous	because	you	have	fewer	turns	and	therefore
fewer	rests.)
Next	come	the	25-yard,	25-meter,	and	20-yard	pools	for	competition.
However,	although	only	the	25-yard	and	25-meter	pools	qualify	as
“regulation	short	course,”	all	these	lengths	are	fine	for	any	swimmer	at
any	level.	(Beginning	swimmers	should	make	sure	that	there’s	an	area
that	is	shallow	enough	for	practicing	new	skills,	though.)	You’ll	find
pools	in	this	group	in	many	places—Ys,	some	health	clubs,	swim	clubs,
public	recreation	areas,	schools,	park	department	facilities,	
etc.
	They
sometimes	have	lane	markers,	pace	clocks,	and	various	training	devices.
You	may	also	find	33⅓-yard/meter	pools	located	in	the	above	places	as
well.
After	these	two	groups,	the	sizing	situation	is	a	mess.	The	length	of
hotel,	motel,	health	club,	and	health	spa	pools	often	depends	upon	how
much	space	and	money	the	owner	has,	and	may	be	anything	from	10	to
15	yards.	These	are	fine	when	you’re	at	the	beginner	stage;	since	there’s
a	large	shallow	end,	it’s	easy	to	swim	the	shorter	laps	or	widths,	and	it’s
unlikely	that	there	will	be	lap	swimmers	for	you	to	dodge.	As	you
improve,	though,	you’ll	probably	outgrow	this	size	pool	fairly	quickly.
But	don’t	forget	swimming	if	that’s	the	only	kind	of	pool	that’s	around:
you’ll	still	be	able	to	swim	mini-laps,	do	drills,	practice	starts	and	turns,
do	some	kicking	and	a	variety	of	water	exercises.	You	can	also	swim
around	the	perimeter	of	the	pool,	first	counterclockwise,	then	clockwise.
Shape:
	Kidney-shaped	pools	are	fine	for	beginners,	for	practicing
certain	skills,	and	for	water	exercises,	but	persons	who	want	to	improve
their	fitness	by	swimming	longer	distances	won’t	be	satisfied	in	anything
but	a	standard-sized,	rectangular	pool.
Cleanliness:
	The	pool	and	its	surroundings	should	be	spotless.
However,	cloudy	water	doesn’t	necessarily	mean	that	the	pool	is	dirty	or
unsafe;	
it	could	just	be	a	temporary	chemical	imbalance.	(Generally,	if
you	can	see	the	drain	at	the	deep	end,	the	water	is	clear	enough	for	safe
swimming.)	Inspect	the	wall	at	water	level—if	the	pool	has	a	case	of
“ring	around	the	collar,”	it	may	mean	that	maintenance	isn’t	up	to	par.
All	pools	have	a	filtration	system	for	recirculating	the	water	and
balancing	the	chemicals;	the	lifeguard	or	pool	manager	can	probably	tell
you	whether	there	are	any	problems	there.
Indoors	or	Outdoors?
	If	you	can,	by	all	means	swim	outdoors:	it’s
much	more	pleasant	when	the	sunlight	is	filtering	through	the	water	and
you’re	breathing	fresh	air.	And	unless	it’s	a	thunderstorm,	there’s
nothing	wrong	with	swimming	even	in	the	rain	(just	swim	underwater	if
you	don’t	want	to	get	wet!).	Depending	on	the	climate	in	your	area,	you
may	be	able	to	swim	outdoors	all	year	round;	if	you	live	in	a	colder
climate,	switching	from	indoors	during	the	winter	to	outdoors	during	the
summer	can	provide	a	welcome	change	in	your	routine.
Traffic:
	While	having	the	whole	pool,	or	at	least	one	lane,	all	to
yourself	is	nice,	it’s	hardly	possible	all	the	time.	Observe	pool	courtesy
by	circling	counterclockwise	within	the	lane	and	you’ll	find	that
crowding	is	not	a	problem.	Of	course,	if	there	are	hundreds	of	persons
splashing	around,	you	might	schedule	your	swims	for	less	popular	times.
There	should	be	at	least	one	lane	marked	off	for	lap	swimming,	if	that’s
what	you	plan	to	do.
Also,	when	turning,	wait	at	the	wall,	if	at	all	possible,	to	allow	a	faster
swimmer	to	pass	you.	You’ll	know	that	someone	is	eager	to	pass	if	you
felt	a	little	toe	tickle	on	the	preceding	lap.
Temperature:
	The	ideal	water	temperature	for	comfort	and	safety	is
between	78°	F	and	84°	F	For	light	workouts	such	as	those	done	by
beginning	swimmers,	or	for	water	exercises,	water	at	the	warmer	end	of
the	scale	is	preferable.	For	heavier	workouts,	cooler	water	is	better
because	it	helps	dissipate	your	increased	body	heat.	The	American
National	Red	Cross	recommends	that	the	air	temperature	be	about	four
degrees	higher	than	the	water	temperature.
Ambience:
	What’s	your	style:	no-fuss,	no-frills—or	music,	lush
vegetation,	chairs	for	lounging,	and	fancy	mirrors	and	murals?	You	want
to	feel	comfortable	at	your	pool,	so	make	sure	that	you	like	the
atmosphere	at	your	chosen	watering	hole	before	you	commit	yourself
and	your	money.	Remember,	you’ll	be	spending	about	an	hour	there	at
least	three	times	a	
week.	In	addition	to	the	ambience,	you	may	also	want
a	well-equipped	gym,	exercise	room,	and/or	whirlpool	and	sauna
facilities,	under	one	roof.
Lifeguard:
	The	presence	of	a	qualified	person	in	case	of	emergency	is
something	swimmers	at	all	levels	should	insist	upon.	Never	swim	alone.
S
WIM
	S
UITS
We’ve	come	a	long	way	since	1909	when	Annette	Kellerman,	the
Australian	national	swimming	heroine,	was	arrested	for	wearing	a	daring
one-piece	tank	suit.	Looking	and	feeling	like	a	woolly	body	stocking,	her
suit	would	be	considered	a	real	drag	(literally	and	figuratively)	by
today’s	standards—but	it	was	a	definite	improvement	over	the	fussy,
skirted	monstrosities	that	women	were	wearing	at	the	time.	(Although
men’s	suits	have	always	been	more	practical	and	comfortable	than
women’s,	the	fellows	wore	suits	similar	to	Annette’s	until	the	end	of
World	War	II.)	But	Ms.	Kellerman	definitely	had	the	right	idea	about
eliminating	resistance.	Since	then,	suits	have	become	steadily	lighter,
sleeker,	and	skimpier,	in	an	effort	to	increase	streamlining	and	reduce
swimming	times.
The	arrival	of	the	aptly	named	skinsuit,	worn	by	the	East	German
women’s	team	in	the	1972	Olympics,	generated	a	shock	similar	to	that	of
the	Kellerman	suit	in	its	day.	But	a	more	serious	shock	was	the	record-
breaking	times	achieved	by	the	swimmers	who	wore	the	contour-
revealing	suits,	and	now	these	“disgraceful”	suits	that	fit	like	a	second
skin	are	commonplace	on	serious	fitness	swimmers	and	competitors
alike.	They’re	seen	on	recreational	and	fashion-conscious	swimmers,	too,
in	the	form	of	the	comfortable	and	practical	Lycra.
Men’s	suit	styles	have	also	undergone	a	streamlining,	from	the
conservative	wool	tank	suit,	to	the	heavy	cotton	boxer	shorts,	and	finally
to	the	Lycra	“skin”	bikini	brief	seen	on	serious	competitive	and	fitness
swimmers	today.
Almost	any	suit	will	do	when	you	begin	your	program.	But	eventually
women	should	get	rid	of	the	excess	fabric	such	as	decorative	bows,
buckles,	buttons,	and	skirts,	and	men	should	graduate	from	baggy	shorts.
These	all	create	drag	in	the	water	and	slow	you	down,	making
swimming	harder	than	it	need	be.	So	pare	down	to	the	minimum	with	a
suit	that	fits	well	without	binding	at	the	arms,	legs,	or	waist.	When
buying	a	suit,	be	sure	to	try	it	on.	If	you	can,	simulate	swimming
movements	in	the	dressing	room	to	make	sure	it	won’t	slip	or	rub;	you
won’t	want	to	have	to	
interrupt	your	workouts	to	adjust	your	suit	every
lap	or	two.	For	women	a	one-piece	tank	or	maillot-type	suit	is	best.
Some	well-constructed	dance	leotards	also	fit	the	bill,	and	many
sportswear	manufacturers	have	designed	suits	that	are	hard	to
distinguish	from	their	inspirations—real	racing	suits.
Fitness	and	racing	suits	are	available	at	sporting	goods	stores	and	are	a
must	for	competitive	swimmers,	when	an	extra	ounce	or	two	can	make	a
crucial	difference	in	the	time.	Even	if	you	don’t	compete	(yet),	consider
getting	a	suit	designed	for	serious	swimming.	Why	should	you	be	held
back	by	a	suit	that’s	one	iota	heavier	than	it	has	to	be?	A	racing	suit	will
help	you	swim	better.	It	has	strategically	placed	straps	that	allow	the
greatest	possible	freedom	of	movement.	It’s	sleek,	taut,	and	practically
weightless.	It	gives	your	body	a	streamlined	feel	and	allows	you	to	slip
through	the	water	more	smoothly	and	quickly.	In	fact,	while	you’re
swimming	you’ll	probably	forget	that	you’re	wearing	one.
Fitness	and	racing	suits	are	available	in	seemingly	endless	variations.
There	are	numerous	styles	that	affect	their	shape,	style,	back,	straps,	leg
height,	type	of	fabric,	thickness,	design,	and	therefore	prices	will	vary.
To	prolong	the	life	of	any	suit,	avoid	sitting	on	rough	edges	or
surfaces.	Most	manufacturers	suggest	that	you	rinse	your	suit	out	in
fresh	water	after	each	swim,	and	allow	it	to	air-dry.
G
OGGLES
Goggles	may	not	be	the	most	attractive	thing	you’ll	ever	wear,	but
they’re	surely	an	improvement	over	“red	eye.”	And	not	only	do	goggles
protect	your	eyes,	they	help	you	to	see	better	underwater.	For	contact
lens	wearers,	of	course,	goggles	are	a	must.	Prescription	goggles	are
available,	as	well.
Goggles	come	in	various	shapes,	sizes,	eye	socket	cushioning,	anti-fog
features,	variable	adjustments	for	nosepieces	and	head	straps,	casing	and
more.
Finding	a	comfortable	pair	of	goggles	is	largely	a	matter	of	trial	and
error.	Manufacturers	naturally	try	to	design	models	to	fit	everyone,	but
as	this	is	impossible,	you’ll	just	have	to	buy	a	pair	and	keep	your	fingers
crossed.
Goggles	come	in	a	variety	of	tints.	Clear	is	the	all-purpose	color,	and
the	blue,	green,	or	gray	ones	are	made	to	shield	your	eyes	from	bright
sunlight.	Yellow	or	rose-colored	lenses,	on	the	other	hand,	actually	make
indoor	light	seem	brighter.
When	you	wear	goggles,	get	the	proper	fit	by	adjusting	both	the
rubber	headband	and	the	center	piece	over	the	nose.	If	you	wear	a	cap,
the	goggles	should	be	over	it.	For	diving	and	for	fast	flip	turns,	wear
your	goggles	a	bit	tighter	than	usual.	The	cushioning	around	the	lenses
keeps	the	water	out.	To	help	form	a	tighter	seal,	press	the	goggles	gently
against	your	eye	sockets	to	help	create	a	vacuum.	The	slight	indentations
they	leave	around	your	eyes	disappear	quickly,	but	to	minimize	this
effect	you	can	push	the	goggles	up	on	your	forehead	whenever	you	don’t
really	need	them,	such	as	during	a	rest	period	or	while	doing	a	kick	drill.
If	you	have	trouble	with	your	goggles	fogging	up	(and	most	swimmers
do,	because	of	the	condensation	formed	by	the	difference	in	the	air	and
water	temperatures),	you	can	try	several	remedies.	The	best	are	the
special	defogging	products	that	deposit	a	thick	oily	film	on	the	inside
surface	of	the	lenses.	Made	especially	for	this	purpose,	these	solutions
really	work,	swim	after	swim	after	swim.	This	means	only	a	small
squeeze	bottle	will	last	virtually	forever,	so	you	can	share	one	with	a
fellow	swimmer.
However,	before	you	rush	out	and	buy	such	a	specialized	item,	you
might	experiment	with	one	or	more	alternatives.	The	handiest	and
cheapest,	and	most	popular,	is	good	old	saliva—something	swimmers
have	been	relying	on	for	years.
B
ATHING
	C
APS
Remember	the	days	of	flower-petal	bathing	caps,	or	wiglike	caps?	Well,
today,	caps	are	just	as	streamlined	as	suits	are	and	come	in	a	variety	of
colors,	shapes,	thicknesses,	and	materials	(e.g.,	latex,	Lycra,	and
silicone).	Some	pools	require	a	cap	for	long-haired	swimmers	of	either
sex,	but	even	persons	with	relatively	short	hair	will	find	that,	although
no	cap	can	keep	your	hair	perfectly	dry,	it	will	keep	your	hair	out	of
your	eyes	and	will	spare	it	the	brunt	of	chemical	abuse.	If	you	have	long
hair,	you	can	gather	it	into	an	elastic	band	before	slipping	on	a	bathing
cap.	A	sweatband	helps	to	keep	out	water	by	acting	as	an	absorptive
barrier.	A	Lycra	cap	may	be	worn	under	a	rubber	one;	wearing	it	also
makes	donning	the	rubber	one	easier	and	more	comfortable.	(This	is
especially	helpful	when	you’re	swimming	for	long	periods.)
After	each	swim,	let	your	bathing	cap	air-dry.	Then	dust	it	lightly	with
corn	starch	or	talcum	powder;	this	keeps	it	from	sticking	to	itself	and	so
makes	it	easier	to	put	on	next	time.
K
ICKBOARDS
If	you’re	going	to	use	any	“extra”	piece	of	equipment,	let	it	be	a
kickboard.	Few	things	can	compare	to	this	simple	device—a	rectangular
slab	of	compressed	plastic—for	versatility	and	usefulness.	And	that
applies	for	all	swimmers,	be	they	beginners,	fitness	seekers,	or
competitors.
A	kickboard	can	support	the	upper	part	of	your	body,	allowing	you	to
breathe	normally	as	you	practice	your	kicks	(hence	the	term
“kickboard”).	Thus	you	can	learn	a	new	kick	or	improve	a	familiar	one;
you	can	strengthen	your	legs	for	a	trimmer	look	and	stronger,	faster
kicks;	and	you	can	vary	your	workouts.
One	method	of	using	a	kickboard	in	the	prone	position	is	to	hold	it
comfortably	with	your	arms	straight	along	the	top,	fingertips	curled
around	the	upper	(rounded)	edge.	Or	you	can	hold	the	board	farther
away	from	you,	so	that	you	have	room	to	put	your	face	in	the	water	to
practice	your	rhythmic	breathing.	Excessive	prone	kicking	with	a
kickboard	may	cause	discomfort	in	your	lower	back.	Switch	to	back
flutter	kick	for	variation.
Kickboard	and	swim	fins	in	use
.
S
WIM
	F
INS
Fins	are	more	than	a	child’s	plaything	or	a	scuba	diver’s	must-have;
they’re	a	useful	training	device	for	the	fitness	and	competitive	swimmer
alike.	In	the	first	place,	they	add	variety	to	your	workouts.	Second,	they
help	you	develop	muscles	in	your	thighs,	calves,	and	abdomen.	Third,
the	overload	placed	on	these	large	muscle	groups	helps	to	improve	your
cardiovascular	capacity	as	well.	Fourth,	they	help	make	your	feet	and
ankles	more	flexible.	They	also	make	you	go	faster.	There	are	a	variety
of	styles,	shapes,	sizes,	contours,	and	colors	to	fit	most	every	need,
including	a	“monofin”!
According	to	one	theory,	once	your	body	is	attuned	to	faster	action,	it
continues	to	respond	quickly,	whether	the	fins	are	on	or	not.	The	added
propulsion	also	causes	your	body	to	ride	higher	in	the	water	(
to
hydroplane)
,	which	is	important	for	most	strokes,	especially	the	butterfly;
combined	with	the	fins’	tendency	to	accentuate	the	undulating	body
motion,	this	means	that	your	arms	can	recover	higher	and	smoother,
resulting	in	a	more	fluid	stroke.	In	the	backstroke,	fins	counteract	“low
legs,”	a	common	problem	in	that	stroke.	They	also	give	you	a	feel	for	the
efficient	whipping	action	that	your	feet	should	develop	while	swimming
every	stroke.	(Unfortunately,	fins	aren’t	good	for	practicing	the
breaststroke	or	the	sidestroke	because	of	the	nature	of	the	kick.)	Thus,
wearing	fins	makes	your	kick	more	effective	and	efficient	by	forcing	you
to	do	it	“the	right	way”;	theoretically,	this	efficiency	becomes	a	habit
that	stays	with	you	even	when	you	take	the	fins	off.
Swim	fins	come	in	several	sizes,	shapes,	colors,	weights,	designs,
function	and	foot	attachments.	The	shoe	type	are	more	comfortable	and
stable,	for	some	people,	than	the	strap-backed.	To	put	them	on,	bend	the
heel	back	inside	out,	insert	your	foot,	and	flip	the	back	up	in	place.	If
you	develop	soreness	or	blisters	when	wearing	fins,	slip	on	a	pair	of	thin
cotton	socks	to	protect	your	feet.
Observe	safety	precautions	when	you	wear	fins—always	walk
backwards,	in	the	water	and	out.	Be	aware,	too,	that	the	added
propulsion	can	cause	a	pool	wall	to	sneak	up	on	you	sooner	than	you’d
think:	leave	yourself	plenty	of	room	for	your	turns.	The	added	resistance
really	works	out	your	leg	muscles	and	your	knee	and	ankle	joints,	so
start	slowly,	and	increase	your	use	of	fins	gradually.	And	watch	out	for
the	phantom	fin	phenomenon—when	you	first	remove	the	fins,	you’ll
feel	as	though	you	have	no	feet	left!
P
ULL
-B
UOYS
Pull-buoys	are	made	of	Styrofoam	or	similar	material.	They	come	in
several	sizes,	shapes,	colors,	designs,	and	methods	of	adjustment.
A	pull-buoy	is	like	a	kickboard	for	your	lower	body:	it	supports	your
legs	so	that	you	can	work	on	your	arm	strokes.	Thus,	you	can	do	pulling
drills	to	learn	a	new	stroke,	to	improve	technique,	to	build	proper	upper-
body	strength,	and	to	vary	your	workouts.
To	use	a	pull-buoy,	place	it	with	the	center	or	straps	between	your
thighs,	so	that	when	you	assume	a	horizontal	position	one	cylinder	will
be	on	top	of	your	legs	and	one	will	be	under	them.	Press	your	thighs
together	to	hold	it	in	place	and	to	contribute	to	stability	and
streamlining.	It	can	also	be	used	as	a	kickboard	and	as	an	upper-body
support	during	supine	kicking	drills.
Pull-buoys
Pull-buoy	and	hand	paddles	in	use
.
H
AND
	P
ADDLES
Hand	paddles	fit	on	your	palms	and	act	the	way	fins	do	for	your	feet—
using	them	strengthens	your	shoulder,	chest,	arm,	and	back	muscles	by
increasing	the	water’s	resistance.	Hand	paddles	come	in	several	shapes,
sizes,	and	colors,	resistance	designs,	hand	attachments,	and	materials
(e.g.,	gloves,	mitts).	Most	are	one	half	inch	to	two	inches	larger	than
your	hand	all	around,	but	there	are	also	half-sized	paddles	as	well	as
forearm	paddles.
Paddles	also	help	you	to	improve	your	form,	first	by	telling	you
whether	you’re	lifting	your	elbow	high	enough	during	overwater
recovery:	if	your	elbow	is	too	low,	the	paddle	dips	into	the	water	and	the
added	drag	throws	off	your	stroke	noticeably.	The	paddles’	larger	surface
area	also	insures	that	your	hand	enters	the	water	at	the	proper	angle;	if
not,	the	slap,	splash,	and	added	resistance	will	be	obvious.	Some	paddles
also	have	a	lip	at	the	wrist	end	that	tells	you	whether	you’re	ending	your
pull	too	flat	or	too	early.	Hand	paddles	are	often	used	in	conjunction
with	a	pull-buoy.
Like	fins,	hand	paddles	put	an	extra	strain	on	your	muscles	and	joints.
So	use	them	sparingly	at	first	and	gradually	increase	their	use	during
your	workouts.
O
THER
	R
ESISTANCE
	D
EVICES
Swimmers—especially	competitive	swimmers—sometimes	wear
resistance	devices	during	workouts	in	order	to	create	more	“drag”	and	so
to	improve	their	conditioning.	Such	devices	include	small	rubber
“donuts”	that	are	twisted	around	the	ankles	in	a	figure	8,	pull-buoys
worn	between	the	ankles,	and	two	or	three	swim	suits	worn	one	over	the
other.
C
LOCKS	AND
	O
THER
	T
IMING
	D
EVICES
The	more	involved	you	become	in	swimming,	the	more	important	it	will
be	to	have	some	way	of	timing	your	swims	and	rest	periods.	At	the
beginning	of	the	workout	program,	you	can	get	away	with
approximating	the	time	by	counting	to	yourself.	But	once	you	get	to	the
point	where	you’re	doing	timed	swims,	paced	swims,	intervals,	repeats,
sprints,	and	timed	distance	swims,	you	need	a	more	accurate	way	of
telling	time.
A	
pace	clock
,	which	is	standard	equipment	at	many	pools,	is	the	best
instrument	for	this.	Pace	clocks	have	only	a	minute	and	a	second	hand,
and	are	usually	large	enough	to	be	seen	one	pool	length	away.

A	pace	clock
Other	timing	devices	that	you	can	use	are:
Pool	facility	digital	timing	equipment
Digital	lap	counters
A	wall	clock	with	an	easily	visible	second	hand
A	waterproof	wristwatch
A	stopwatch
S
UPPLIER
/M
ANUFACTURERS
Arena,	N.A.
109	Inverness	Drive	East
Englewood,	CO	80112
	(303)	799-1856
Competitive	Aquatic	Supply
15131	Triton	Lane	Suite	110
Huntington	Beach,	CA	92649
	(714)	898-2655
The	Finals	1466	Broadway
New	York,	NY	10036
	(212)	302-1308
1-800-431-9111
Hind	Corporate
3765	South	Higuera
San	Luis	Obispo,	CA	93401
1-800-235-4150
1-800-544-8555	in	California
Jantzen,	Inc.
P.	O.	Box	3001
Portland,	OR	97208
1-800-626-0215
Kast-A-Way	Swimwear
9356	Cincinnati/Columbus	Road
Route	42
Cincinnati,	OH	45241
1-800-543-2763
Metro	Swim	Shop
1221	Valley	Road
Stirling,	NJ	07980
	(908)	647-8121
1-800-258-0272
Ocean	Pool	Company,	Inc.
45	Mall	Drive
Commack,	NY	11725
	(516)	543-1110
1-800-645-5316
Rothhammer-Sprint	International,	Inc.
P.	O.	Box	5579
Santa	Maria,	CA	93456
1-800-235-2156
Speedo®	America
7911	Haskell	Avenue
Van	Nuys,	CA	91410
	(818)	376-0300
TYR	Sport
P.	0.	Box	1930
Huntington	Beach,	CA	92649
	(714)	897-0799
The	Victor
2725	W.	81st	Street
Hialeah,	FL	33016
1-800-356-5132
World	Wide	Aquatics
10500	University	Center	Drive
Suite	250
Tampa,	FL	33612
1-800-726-1530
S
WIMMING
	M
AGAZINES
Aquatics	International	Magazine
6151	Powers	Ferry	Road	N.W.
Atlanta,	GA	30339-2941
	(404)	955-2500
Fitness	Swimmer	Magazine
12	East	26th	Street
New	York,	NY	10010
	(212)	683-3701
1-800-998-0735
Masters	Sports
1633	Broadway
New	York,	NY	10019
	(212)	767-5036
Swim	Magazine
P.	O.	Box	91870
Pasadena,	CA	91109-1870
	(818)	304-7755
Swimming	Technique
P.	O.	Box	91870
Pasadena,	CA	91109
	(818)	304-7755
The	Swimming	Times
P.	O.	Box	1132
Lowell,	MA	01853
1-800-821-4776
Swimming	World/Sports	Publications
P.	O.	Box	91870
Pasadena,	CA	91109
	(818)	304-7755
1-800-538-9787
World	Aquatic	News	and	Travel
P.	O.	Box	70366
Pasadena,	CA	91117
	(818)	793-2582
O
RGANIZATIONS
AAHPERD
American	Alliance	for	Health,	Physical	Education,	Recreation	and	Dance
1900	Association	Drive
Reston,	VA	22091,	(703)	476-3400
Amateur	Athletic	Union	of	the	U.S.
3400	West	86th	Street
Indianapolis,	IN	46268
	(317)	872-2900
American	National	Red	Cross
Health	and	Safety
431	18th	Street	N.W.
Washington,	DC	20006	(202)	639-3542
American	Swimming	Coaches
Association
c/o	1	Hall	of	Fame	Drive
Fort	Lauderdale,	FL	33316
	(305)	462-6536
Council	for	National	Cooperation
in	Aquatics	(CNCA)
P.	O.	Box	351743
Toledo,	OH	43635
	(419)	867-3326
F.I.N.A.
Fédération	Internationale	de
Natation	Amateur
425	Walnut	Street
Suite	1610
Cincinnati,	OH	45202
	(513)	381-2793
International	Swimming	Hall	of
Fame	World	Headquarters
1	Hall	of	Fame	Drive
Fort	Lauderdale,	FL	33316
	(305)	462-6536
National	Collegiate	Athletic
Association
6201	College	Blvd.
Overland	Park,	KS	66211
	(913)	339-1906
National	Recreation	and	Park	Association
Aquatics	Section
650	West	Higgins	Road
Hoffman	Estates,	IL	60195
1-800-677-2236
National	Safety	Council,	Aquatics
1121	Spring	Lake	Drive
Itusca,	IL	60143
1-800-621-6244
National	Spa	and	Pool	Institute
2111	Eisenhower	Avenue
Alexandria,	VA	22314
	(703)	838-0083
President’s	Council	on	Physical
Fitness	and	Sports
701	Pennsylvania	Avenue
Suite	250
Washington,	DC	20004
	(202)	272-3421
Special	Olympics	International—Aquatics
1350	New	York	Avenue	N.W.
Suite	500
Washington,	DC	20005
	(202)	628-3630
Underwater	Society	of	America
Fin	Swimming
P.	0.	Box	628
Daly	City,	CA	94017
	(415)	583-8492
U.	S.	Masters	Swimming,	Inc.
2	Peters	Avenue
Rutland,	MA	01549
	(508)	886-6631
United	States	Swimming,	Inc.
1750	Boulder	Street
Colorado	Springs,	CO	80909
	(719)	578-4578
United	States	Synchronized
Swimming,	Inc.
Pan	Am	Plaza
Suite	510
201	South	Capitol	Street
Indianapolis,	IN	46225
	(317)	237-5700
United	States	Water	Polo,	Inc.
Pan	Am	Plaza
Suite	520
201	South	Capitol	Street
Indianapolis,	IN	46225
	(317)	237-5599
YMCA	of	the	U.S.A.
101	N.	Wacker	Drive
Chicago,	IL	60606
	(312)	977-0031
1-800-USA-YMCA
Young	Women’s	Christian	Association	of	the	U.S.A.
726	Broadway
New	York,	NY	10003
	(212)	614-2700
P
ART	SIX
DR.	J’s	Q’s	&	A’s
	
C
HLORINE
,	S
KIN,	AND
	H
AIR
1
Q:	Why	do	they	put	those	chemicals	in	the	pool	water?
A:	In	the	first	place,	to	keep	the	water	clean,	safe,	and	swimmable.
Chlorine	(slightly	different	from	the	kind	found	in	laundry	bleach)	is	one
of	the	most	effective	chemicals	found	so	far	to	sanitize	water.	It	helps	to
kill	the	bacteria	and	algae,	and	may	be	introduced	as	a	gas,	liquid,	or
powder.	Chlorine	also	“consumes”	substances	that	would	otherwise
cloud	the	water:	perspiration	(did	you	realize	that	you	sweat	when	you
swim?),	suntan	and	other	lotions,	deodorants,	and	so	on.	So	it	keeps	the
water	clear,	too.
Chemicals	also	serve	to	balance	the	pH	level.	If	the	water	becomes
either	too	alkaline	or	too	acidic,	it	may	cause	eye,	ear,	and	skin
irritation,	and	it	promotes	the	growth	of	bacteria.	Sodium	bicarbonate
(soda	ash)	is	added	to	raise	pH	level.	Muriatic	acid	is	used	to	lower	pH.
Q:	Isn’t	there	some	other	way	to	keep	the	water	clean	and	swimmable?
A:	There	are	several	nonchemical	purification	systems	that
substantially	reduce	the	need	for	chemicals.	One	uses	short-wave
ultraviolet	energy,	
which	causes	microorganisms	literally	to	explode,	and
thus	kills	algae,	bacteria,	viruses,	and	other	uninvited	“swimmers.”
Another	is	ionization,	in	which	ion-producing	electrical	currents	kill
bacteria	and	algae	in	the	water	return	line;	filters	then	remove	the	dead
organisms.	A	third	technique	uses	chlorine/chlorozone	generators	to
manufacture	chlorine	in	a	form	that	doesn’t	alter	the	water	texture	and
does	away	with	the	need	for	adding	salts,	acids,	or	chlorine.	Finally,
there	are	ozone	generators	that	sterilize	water	by	breaking	down	organic
matter	into	carbon	dioxide	and	water—at	a	rate	about	sixty	times	faster
than	chemical	purification!	These	methods	are	currently	being	tried	in
hot	tubs,	spas,	and	pools;	let’s	hope	they	catch	on.
Q:	Does	chlorine	penetrate	the	skin?
A:	No,	but	you	should	at	least	rinse,	and	preferably	wash	it	off	with
soap,	after	each	swim.
Q:	Why	is	it	important	to	get	rid	of	all	the	chlorine	on	my	skin?
A:	Because	chlorine	and	salt	water	remove	the	oils	that	keep	your
natural	moisture	in.	Paradoxically,	prolonged	immersion	in	water	of	any
kind	can	actually	dry	your	skin.	So	use	a	moisturizing	soap	when	you
shower	off	after	a	swim.	Then,	while	your	skin	is	still	slightly	damp,
apply	a	moisturizing	lotion;	those	containing	urea	or	lactic	acid	are	best.
People	with	dry	or	“delicate”	skin	or	eczema	must	be	extra	careful,
because	chlorine	will	worsen	their	condition,	so	it’s	especially	important
to	apply	a	moisturizer	if	you	fall	into	this	category.
Q:	Does	that	mean	that	chlorine	will	help	people	with	oily	skin?
A:	Yes;	chlorine	will	help	clear	up	oily	skin	by	removing	excess	oil.
People	with	acne	will	tend	to	see	an	improvement,	too.	And	swimmers
are	generally	immune	from	“athlete’s	acne,”	caused	when	excess	body
heat	and	sweat	increase	oil	production	and	clog	the	pores.
Q:	Sometimes	my	skin	gets	itchy	between	swims.	Why?
A:	That’s	probably	“swimmer’s	itch,”	which	occurs	especially	in	open
water.	It’s	an	allergic	reaction	to	a	parasite	(one	of	the	schistosomes)
that	superficially	penetrates	the	skin.	Repeated	exposure	eventually
results	in	
an	itching	rash	that	lasts	about	three	days.	The	best	treatment
is	calamine	lotion	and	antihistamines.
You	may	also	experience	temporary	itchiness	after	a	really	strenuous
swim.	This	frequently	happens	after	hard	exercise	of	any	kind,	and	has
nothing	to	do	with	swimming,	chlorine,	or	water	per	se.	When	you’re
exercising,	the	blood	vessels	dilate	from	the	extra	blood	flow,	and	when
you	stop,	they	constrict,	sometimes	causing	“the	blotchies.”
Q:	Are	swimmers	especially	prone	to	athlete’s	foot	or	jock	itch?
A:	These	are	both	fungus	infections	that	are	actually	much	less
common	among	swimmers	than	other	athletes.	Funguses	prefer	warmth
and	moisture	to	grow.	Since	swimmers	don’t	generate	as	much	heat	or
perspire	as	much	as	dry-land	athletes,	infections	of	this	type	aren’t	much
of	a	problem.	Unless,	of	course,	you	don’t	dry	off	your	feet	and	groin
properly	after	your	shower.	Ears,	too,	can	become	infected	with	a
fungus.	Apply	a	small	amount	of	rubbing	alcohol	to	the	affected	areas
with	a	cotton	swab	to	hasten	evaporation	of	excess	water.	It’s	also	a
good	idea	to	sprinkle	a	little	powder	on	the	feet.	Walking	around	the
locker	room	and	shower	areas	with	shower	clogs	does	absolutely	no
good,	because	funguses	are	all	around	you,	all	the	time,	just	waiting	for
a	chance	to	grow.	(There	is	a	one	out	of	three	chance	that	you	have
funguses	between	your	toes	right	now.)
If	you	do	develop	either	athlete’s	foot	or	jock	itch,	the	over-the-
counter	preparations	may	get	rid	of	them,	but	if	you	don’t	get	quick
results,	see	a	doctor	for	some	stronger	medication	to	keep	the	fungus
from	spreading.
Q:	Can	I	still	get	sunburned	when	I’m	in	the	water?
A:	Yes;	few	people	realize	that	the	sun’s	rays	penetrate	water.	So	if
you’re	swimming	outdoors,	use	a	sunscreen	or	sunblock.	For	best	results,
apply	it	at	least	one	hour	before	going	outdoors,	and	reapply	after
you’ve	come	out	of	the	water.	Use	an	appropriate	SPF.	The	higher	the
number,	the	greater	the	protection.
Q:	Are	there	any	special	steps	I	should	take	to	protect	my	hair?
A:	Water,	especially	if	it’s	chlorinated	or	salty,	dries	out	hair	just	as	it
dries	out	your	skin.	After	a	swim,	at	least	rinse	out	your	hair	to	remove
as	much	of	the	chlorine	and	other	chemicals	(or	salt)	as	possible.	Better
still,	wash	it	with	a	mild	shampoo	for	dry	or	damaged	hair.	Lather	only
once;	then	apply	creme	rinse	or	conditioner	to	replenish	the	oils	and	to
help	untangle	the	hair.	If	you	find	your	hair	feeling	dry,	sticky,	or	dull,
consider	changing	shampoos.	Some	are	able	to	remove	certain	chemical
deposits	that	others	don’t.	There	are	specially	formulated	shampoos	and
conditioners	for	those	who	swim	in	chlorinated	water.
To	minimize	the	exposure	to	chemicals	in	the	first	place,	and	to	keep
hair	from	tangling	more	than	it	has	to,	wear	a	bathing	cap—even	if	you
have	short	hair.	Though	none	are	completely	leakproof,	caps	do	offer
some	protection.	If	you	don’t	wear	a	cap,	your	hair	is	completely
exposed	to	the	pool	chemicals,	and	it	is	whipped	around	in	the	water	the
way	your	clothes	are	in	a	washing	machine.	I’ve	discovered	that	it’s	also
a	good	idea	to	wear	a	Lycra	cap	under	a	latex	or	silicone	one.	The	Lycra
isn’t	waterproof,	but	it’s	a	smooth,	absorbent	lining	that	acts	as	a	buffer
between	my	hair	and	my	outer	cap,	which	sometimes	pulls	and	tangles
the	hair.
Q:	Does	my	tinted	(or	permanented)	hair	require	special	care?
A:	Chlorine	enters	the	hair	shaft,	causing	hair	to	swell	and	stretch
more	than	normal.	Hair	that’s	already	been	chemically	treated	is	more
porous	and	delicate	than	“virgin”	hair,	so	you	may	be	more	prone	to
breakage,	split	ends,	and	even	discoloration.	Make	an	extra	effort	to
keep	your	hair	dry	(there	are	Velcro	bathing	caps	available),	and	treat	it
very	gently	when	wet—comb	out	tangles	with	a	wide-toothed	comb,
starting	at	the	ends	and	working	your	way	up	toward	the	scalp.
Q:	Should	I	cut	my	hair	if	I’m	swimming	often?
A:	Short	hair	does	make	sense	for	swimming.	And	since	you’ll	be	in
the	pool,	and	therefore	shampooing,	at	least	three	times	a	week,	choose
a	style—whether	long	or	short	or	medium	length—that	doesn’t	need
fussing	to	look	good.	Styles	that	you	can	just	wash	and	let	dry	naturally
are	ideal.	Keep	blow-drying	and	electric	curlers	to	a	minimum,	since
they’re	time-consuming,	space-consuming,	and	damaging	to	the	hair.	To
cut	down	on	shampooing	and	drying,	try	to	schedule	your	swims	on	the
days	you’d	normally	wash	your	hair	anyway	(or	vice	versa).
E
YES
,	E
ARS
,	N
OSE,	AND
	T
HROAT
2
Q:	My	eyes	get	really	bloodshot	and	my	throat	gets	scratchy	when	I	swim.
Am	I	allergic	to	the	chlorine?
A:	It’s	very	rare	to	be	“allergic”	to	chlorine	in	the	usual	sense,	but	after
repeated	exposures,	many	people	experience	an	“irritant	reaction”	which
looks	and	feels	like	an	allergic	reaction	with	swelling,	itching	and
sneezing,	sniffling,	and	red	eyes.
Sometimes	a	scratchy	throat	and	coughing	are	caused	by	free	chlorine
particles	in	the	air,	especially	in	poorly	ventilated	indoor	pools.
Q:	Why	do	I	see	halos	around	lights	after	I’ve	been	swimming?
A:	When	your	eyes	are	exposed	to	chemically	treated	and/or
hypotonic	water	(containing	less	salt	than	the	cornea),	the	cornea	may
swell	up.	This	edema	causes	the	light	rays	to	bend	as	they	pass	through,
which	results	in	the	halos	around	lights	that	sometimes	plague
swimmers.	The	eyes	may	also	turn	red,	tear,	and	become	overly	sensitive
to	light	and	cigarette	smoke.	A	nap,	rinsing	the	eyes,	and	time,	will
alleviate	this	condition;	goggles	will	prevent	it.
Q:	What	causes	the	sensation	of	having	something	in	my	eye	after	I’ve	been
swimming?
A:	That’s	another,	but	related,	story.	Exposure	to	chlorine	can	cause
superficial	punctate	keratitis—the	outer	cells	of	the	cornea	actually	fall
off,	leaving	a	nerve	exposed	and	giving	you	the	feeling	that	you	have
something	in	your	eye.	It	takes	a	day	or	two	for	this	condition	to	heal—
that’s	how	long	it	takes	your	body	to	replace	the	lost	cells.	Again,
wearing	goggles	is	the	best	way	to	prevent	this	condition.
Q:	Can	I	get	an	eye	infection	from	swimming?
A:	Not	if	you’re	swimming	in	a	pool	that’s	adequately	chlorinated.	The
current	standard	of	at	least	2.0	parts	per	million	of	free	available
chlorine	is	sufficient	to	kill	all	bacteria	and	most	viruses.
Fresh-water	swimming	holes	such	as	quarries	and	lakes,	as	well	as
underchlorinated	pools,	can	harbor	harmful	bacteria	and	viruses,
however.	You	can	protect	yourself	from	them	by	wearing	goggles—but
not	someone	else’s	goggles,	since	the	infection	may	spread	this	way.
Consult	a	physician	if	you	have	any	eye	condition	that	persists.
Q:	Can	I	wear	my	contact	lenses	when	I	swim?
A:	Yes,	but	most	recent	experiments	by	the	Centers	for	Disease	Control
show	soft	contact	lens	wearers	face	certain	risks.	Although	contact	lenses
can	protect	your	eyes	from	chlorine,	wearing	soft	lenses	while	swimming
is	associated	with	eye	infections;	in	addition,	you	run	a	4–15	percent
chance	of	losing	the	lenses.	Other	studies	recommend	you	use	goggles
whether	or	not	you	wear	contact	lenses	to	protect	your	eyes	from
microorganisms	and	bacteria	normally	found	in	pools	and	natural	bodies
of	water.	And	if	you	do	wear	contacts	during	swimming,	you	should
remove	them	and	disinfect	them	after	twenty	to	thirty	minutes	to
minimize	the	risk	of	problems.
If	you	wear	contacts,	you	might	want	to	discuss	with	your	optometrist
the	possibility	of	having	prescription	goggles	made.	You	can	also
purchase	goggles	“ready	made”	in	a	variety	of	diopter	powers.
Q:	I	seem	to	get	a	lot	of	water	in	my	ears.	Is	this	harmful?	What’s
“swimmer’s	ear”?
A:	Getting	water	in	your	ears	is	annoying	and	can	lead	to	“swimmer’s
ear.”	When	you	swim,	water	sometimes	travels	up	the	Eustachian	tube,
the	connecting	tube	that	stretches	from	behind	the	nose	to	behind	the
eardrum.	If	you	have	an	infection	in	your	nasal	passages,	therefore,	the
water	can	transfer	the	inflammation	to	your	middle	ear;	this	is	known	as
“swimmer’s	ear.”	This	problem	is	pretty	unusual,	though,	and	it	may
occur	in	scuba	divers	because	of	the	changes	in	pressure	that	they’re
subjected	to.	And	it’s	more	common	in	children	than	in	adults,	because
adults	have	a	little	kink	in	the	Eustachian	tube	that	tends	to	catch	the
water.	If	you	do	develop	a	persistent	pain	in	your	ear,	see	a	doctor;	you
may	have	developed	a	middle-ear	infection	that	requires	professional
attention.
Q:	How	can	I	prevent	water	from	getting	in	my	ears?	Once	it’s	in,	how	can
I	get	it	out?
A:	Wearing	earplugs	made	of	rubber,	plastic,	or	wax	may	protect	your
ears.	The	main	concern	with	these	is	that,	if	water	does	get	trapped
behind	the	plug,	it	could	be	worse	than	having	water	flowing	in	and	out
of	your	outer	ear.	A	bathing	cap	pulled	over	your	ears	may	be	sufficient
protection.	Another	method	is	to	use	lamb’s	wool.
Wrap	a	small	wad	of	lamb’s	wool	(sold	in	foot-care	departments)
around	your	index	finger;	coat	it	with	a	little	petroleum	jelly	and	insert
it	into	the	ear	canal.	This	takes	a	bit	of	practice,	so	experiment	a	few
times	until	you	find	just	the	right	amount	and	depth.	I	apply	it	every
time	I	swim	and	haven’t	had	“swimmer’s	ear”	since	I	have	used	it.	It
helps	to	keep	water	out	and	forms	just	enough	of	a	soft,	absorbent
barrier	to	make	sure	that	ear	problems	stay	away.
To	get	water	out	of	your	ears,	dry	them	with	a	hair	dryer	or	
gently
	use
cotton	swabs.	Also,	there	are	fast-drying,	antibacterial	eardrops
available,	made	especially	to	prevent	“swimmer’s	ear.”
Q:	Do	swimmers	get	more	colds	than	other	people?
A:	Swimming,	of	itself,	doesn’t	increase	your	chances	of	upper
respiratory	infections.	Not	dressing	sensibly,	however,	can	cause
problems.	In	cold	weather,	it’s	just	not	smart	to	walk	outside	without	a
hat	or	scarf	after	swimming,	since	30	to	40	percent	of	your	body	heat
escapes	from	your	head.
Q:	Sometimes	I	feel	as	though	I	can’t	catch	my	breath.	What’s	happening?
A:	It	may	be	a	result	of	breathing	too	fast	too	deeply.	This	is	called
hyperventilating,	or	perhaps	you’re	not	giving	yourself	enough	rest.
Q:	Can	I	swim	with	a	cold?
A:	Time-honored	tradition	takes	swimmers	out	of	the	water	when	they
have	colds.	But	I’ve	never	heard	any	really	convincing	argument	as	
to
why	people	should	avoid	swimming	when	they	have	a	mild	upper
respiratory	infection.	It’s	true	that	vigorous	exercise	does	cut	down	your
body’s	ability	to	fight	infection,	and	that	chlorine	does	irritate
respiratory	passages	a	little.	But	a	mild	cold,	the	tail	end	of	one,	or	a
chronic	runny	nose	(which	can	happen	in	winter	even	when	no	infection
is	present)	doesn’t	mean	you	have	to	stay	out	of	the	water.	It	depends	on
how	you	feel.
However,	it’s	a	different	story	if	you	have	a	fever,	in	which	case	you
should	absolutely	stay	away	from	the	pool.	If	you	have	a	bad	cough	you
shouldn’t	swim	either—not	only	for	your	own	sake,	but	to	avoid
spreading	disease.	And	don’t	fool	around	with	bad	respiratory	problems;
see	a	doctor	if	you’re	really	sick.
Q:	I	have	a	sinus	condition—should	I	wear	nose	clips?
A:	In	case	of	a	full-blown	sinusitis,	when	there’s	pain	below	the	eyes,
especially	when	you	press	on	the	area,	tremendous	pressure	in	the	sinus
cavity,	and	a	foul	taste	in	the	mouth,	you	shouldn’t	go	in	the	water;
consult	a	physician.
However,	nose	clips	are	a	matter	of	personal	preference.	Some	people
are	never	bothered	by	water	getting	up	their	noses,	while	others	seem	to
get	an	inordinate	amount	of	it.	If	you’re	one	of	those	people,	it’s
reasonable	to	consider	using	nose	clips.	But	even	then	they	shouldn’t	be
used	routinely—they	can	be	annoying	and	uncomfortable	in	themselves,
and	they	become	one	more	thing	that	you	have	to	concern	yourself	with.
In	any	event,	there	are	several	styles,	shapes,	and	sizes	available	to	fit
most	noses.	But	nose	clips	should	still	be	worn	only	by	those	who	are
prone	to	sinus	infection.
Q:	Why	does	it	burn	when	water	gets	up	my	nose?
A:	The	stinging	is	caused	when	the	chlorinated	water	penetrates	the
sinus	cavities,	irritating	the	delicate	membranes	that	enclose	them.
A
CHES	AND
	P
AINS
3
Q:	What	kinds	of	injuries	do	swimmers	have	to	watch	out	for?
A:	Very	few;	swimming	is	a	relatively	safe	sport,	perhaps	the	safest	of
all.	(In	fact,	sports	medicine	specialists	often	recommend	swimming	or
some	other	form	of	hydrotherapy	to	their	patients	who	have	injured
themselves	during	some	other	activity.)	The	water’s	buoyancy	makes
swimming	easy	on	the	joints	and	muscles,	unlike	dry-land	sports	such	as
running	and	even	bike	riding.	Injuries	are	usually	a	matter	of	overuse—
subjecting	the	body	to	something	for	which	it	is	not	adequately
prepared,	either	because	the	warm-up	was	inadequate	or	because	the
body	isn’t	strong	or	limber	enough	to	do	as	much	as	it’s	being	asked	to.
In	addition	to	simple	muscle	soreness,	overzealous	swimmers	may
sometimes	suffer	from	“swimmer’s	shoulder,”	which	is	caused	by	too
much	freestyle,	backstroke,	or	butterfly;	knee	problems,	which	can	affect
the	breaststroker;	and	low	back	pain	from	doing	too	much	butterfly,	or
kicking	too	much	with	a	kickboard.
Q:	Why	do	I	sometimes	feel	stiff	and	sore	after	swimming?
A:	A	little	bit	of	muscle	soreness	is	a	way	of	life	for	those	of	us	who
exercise	in	order	to	improve	our	level	of	fitness.	Theoretically,	someone
who’s	on	a	carefully	designed	
maintenance
	program	shouldn’t	get	sore.
But	for	most	of	us,	slight	soreness	is	actually	desirable,	because	it	means
you’ve	been	working	hard	enough	to	cause	a	change	in	your	body,
which,	eventually,	means	an	improved	physical	condition.	Although	it’s
really	difficult	to	cause	a	sprain	or	strain	while	swimming,	you	should
always	
listen	to	your	body
.	If	it	hurts	while	you’re	swimming,	don’t	push
yourself.	Simple	muscle	soreness	is	caused	when	waste	products	such	as
lactic	acid	build	up	in	the	muscles,	and	is	usually	evident	the	next	day.
Q:	What	can	I	do	to	prevent	or	ease	achy	muscles?
A:	To	reduce	simple	muscle	soreness,	begin	your	exercise	program
slowly	and	progress	gradually.	Try	not	to	be	that	weekend	athlete	who
exercises	furiously	on	Saturday	and	Sunday,	then	limps	to	work	on
Monday.	Exercise	regularly	so	that	your	muscles	stay	in	shape.	For	best
results,	swim	every	other	day	so	your	body	has	a	chance	to	recover.
Remember	to	warm	up	and	cool	down	to	ease	your	muscles	from	a	state
of	rest	to	one	of	activity,	then	back	to	relative	inactivity.	There	is	no
medical	treatment	for	muscle	soreness;	liniments	containing	oil	of
wintergreen	may	ease	the	pain	but	do	not	promote	healing.	Relaxed,
easy	swimming	is	the	ideal	therapy	for	mild	soreness.	If	the	pain	is
severe,	apply	ice	for	the	first	day,	then	switch	to	heat.	If	discomfort
persists,	see	a	doctor;	the	problem	may	be	a	real	injury	that	requires
professional	help.
Q:	Will	taking	a	sauna	or	steambath	help	soreness?
A:	These	dilate	the	blood	vessels	so	that	more	blood	flows	to	the
muscles,	which	helps	to	carry	away	the	excess	lactic	acid.	Whirlpools,
saunas,	and	steambaths	therefore	can	be	helpful.	But	they’re	not	the	real
answer—stretching	and	a	proper	warm-up	and	cool-down	are.	(Saunas,
etc.,	are	not	recommended	instead	of	a	warm-up	just	before	you	go	into
the	water	because	of	the	extreme	change	in	temperature.)
Q:	Will	a	massage	help	my	aching	muscles?
A:	Yes.	A	good	massage	will	not	only	ease	already	sore	muscles	but
will	help	prevent	soreness	from	occurring.	Massage	can	release	muscle
tension	and	help	to	remove	the	accumulated	toxins	that	cause	muscle
fatigue.	Massage	also	improves	your	circulation	in	general	and	so	helps
to	calm	your	nerves,	aid	digestion,	and	leave	you	with	a	feeling	of	well-
being.
Q:	What	about	pains	in	my	joints?
A:	These	are	very	few	and	far	between	among	swimmers,	and	usually
occur	only	when	you	are	swimming	great	distances,	as	competitive
swimmers	do.	But	they	can	affect	any	one	of	us	when	overenthusiasm
induces	us	to	do	“too	much	too	soon.”	Even	those	who	know	better
occasionally	overdo	it,	as	one	intermediate	swimmer	can	testify:	“There	I
was,	on	my	
first	winter	vacation	since	I’d	taken	up	swimming	for	fitness.
I	had	access	to	a	beautiful	50-meter	outdoor	pool,	and,	boy,	did	I	take
advantage	of	that.	I	saw	it	as	a	golden	opportunity	to	increase	my
distance—and	I	did:	from	500	meters	to	2,500	meters	in	four	days!	I	was
in	pretty	good	shape	generally,	from	calisthenics,	dancing,	and	jogging,
so	my	muscles	didn’t	hurt	much;	they	just	felt	nice	and	tight.	But	after
my	fourth	day,	my	left	shoulder	began	to	hurt.	I	figured	it	was	just	a	sore
deltoid—I’d	switched	breathing	sides	and	my	left	arm	was	getting	more
than	its	accustomed	workout.	But	the	next	day,	I	heard	a	clicking	sound
when	I	did	the	freestyle	and	figured	something	more	serious	was	up.”
She	was	right.	She	had	the	beginnings	of	tendinitis—an	inflammation
of	the	connective	tissue.	The	constant	repetition	of	the	arm	motions	was
just	too	much	for	her	shoulder	to	bear	at	this	point	in	her	development.
Q:	How	do	I	prevent	or	treat	tendinitis?
A:	To	prevent	tendinitis,	increase	your	workload	gradually	by
following	my	step-by-step	programs.	Not	only	will	that	keep	you	from
overdoing	it,	it	will	make	sure	that	your	technique	is	correct—another
possible	cause	of	injury	and	discomfort.	And	always	warm	up	thoroughly
before	every	workout,	and	cool	down	properly	afterward.	Between
workouts,	do	some	resistance	exercises	to	build	up	muscle	strength.	If
you’re	a	“weekend	athlete,”	don’t	overestimate	your	ability;	you	may
regret	it	on	Monday	morning.
If	you	do	develop	joint	problems,	avoid	the	motion	that	caused	it	until
the	problem	clears	up	(usually	less	than	a	week):	Avoid	resistive	devices
or	kickboard	use	if	your	knees	or	shoulders	are	sore.	Try	other	strokes
such	as	sculling,	the	breaststroke,	maybe	the	backstroke,	or	treading.	If
your	knees	or	ankles	are	sore,	do	more	arm-stroke	drills.
Once	the	tendinitis	is	under	control,	you	should	modify	your	stroke
(i.e.,	don’t	swing	your	arms	quite	so	high,	or	do	a	modified	whip	kick)	to
prevent	a	recurrence.	If	possible,	have	your	stroke	techniques	critiqued
to	identify	movements	that	may	be	causing	the	condition.
Try	alternate	breathing	during	the	crawl,	too;	the	arm	opposite	your
breathing	side	sometimes	pulls	deeper	and	harder	than	the	other,	so
tendinitis	usually	occurs,	if	at	all,	there.	Alternate	breathing	not	only
helps	to	balance	your	stroke,	it	creates	an	even	load	on	both	arms.
Unless	the	pain	is	severe,	usually	a	little	sensible	attention,	some	heat,
and	perhaps	an	anti-inflammatory	drug	such	as	aspirin	are	the	best
treatment—try	them	before	you	consult	an	orthopedist.
Q:	Why	is	water	so	good	for	therapy?
A:	For	many	reasons:
It	reduces	the	effects	of	gravity,	so	that	there’s	less	strain	on	the
joints.	The	water’s	buoyancy	supports	and	cushions	the	entire
body.
At	the	same	time,	the	water’s	resistance	helps	build	muscle
strength	and	tone—but	gently,	because	the	same	resistance
precludes	fast,	jerky	movements	that	could	lead	to	injury.
The	water	also	relaxes	muscles,	especially	if	it’s	80	degrees	F.	or
above.	(Muscles	aren’t	tense	while	they’re	working.)	This	also
extends	your	range	of	motion,	thereby	helping	to	keep	your
body	limber.
Water	stimulates	the	circulation,	increasing	the	flow	of	oxygen
and	energy	to	the	muscles.
So	it’s	no	wonder	that	therapists	prescribe	gentle	swimming	and
special	hydrotherapy	exercises	for	patients	who	have	been	injured	or
who	suffer	from	chronic	joint	problems	(such	as	post-fracture	patients
and	victims	of	arthritis).
Q:	Can	water	exercise	help	my	back	problem?
A:	Yes,	except	in	the	case	of	severe	neck	injuries.	In	particular,	the
elementary	backstroke	is	easy	on	your	back.
Q:	Can	water	exercise	help	my	shoulder	and	knee	pain?
A:	Do	gentle	water	exercises	that	will	increase	the	range	of	motion	of
these	joints;	progressive	exercise	to	build	up	the	surrounding	muscles
gradually	will	help	take	the	strain	off	the	joints.	A	gentle	breaststroke
(for	shoulder	problems)	and	crawl	stroke	(for	knee	problems)	will	help
loosen	up	the	affected	areas.
Q:	The	common	cramp—what	is	it,	what	causes	it,	how	do	I	deal	with	it?
A:	A	cramp,	an	abrupt,	powerful	contraction	of	the	muscle	fibers,	may
be	caused	by	fatigue,	overexertion,	cold,	or	lack	of	warm-up.	Most
commonly,	it	occurs	in	the	leg,	particularly	in	the	calf	muscle.
Treatment	of	the	cramp	is	aimed	at	releasing	the	contraction.	This	is
often	best	accomplished	by	alternately	flexing	and	extending	the	affected
area,	and	by	kneading	with	the	thumbs.
E
SPECIALLY	FOR
	W
OMEN
4
Q:	Can	I	swim	while	I’m	menstruating?
A:	It’s	up	to	you.	But	thanks	to	the	tampon,	you	can	swim	at	any	time
of	the	month.
Most	of	the	available	research	indicates	that	menstruation	itself	is	no
reason	to	stop	swimming	(or	any	other	exercise).	During	your	period,
mild	exercise	is	usually	at	least	as	effective	(and	healthier	overall)	as
crawling	into	bed	with	a	hot	water	bottle	and	a	snifter	of	brandy.
Some	women	do	say	that	their	performance	is	affected	while	they’re
menstruating.	In	several	surveys,	about	half	of	the	women	said	they
didn’t	notice	any	difference;	of	the	rest,	about	half	said	they	performed
worse—but	the	other	half	said	they	performed	better!	Some	of	this	may
be	psychological,	some	may	be	due	to	very	real	fluctuations	in	the	blood
pressure	and	resting	pulse	rate.	And	if	you	take	medication	for	your
discomfort,	that	may	affect	your	performance,	too.
Q:	Will	exercise	affect	my	periods?
A:	Yes—for	the	better.	In	general,	women	who	exercise	regularly
suffer	fewer	of	the	discomforts	associated	with	menstruation:	fewer
headaches,	less	tension,	and	fewer	and	less	severe	cramps	and	lower
back	pains.	And	studies	have	shown	that	exercising	five	days	prior	to	the
onset	of	your	period	can	even	curb	premenstrual	tension	and	depression
by	letting	you	sweat	away	extra	water	and	sodium.	And	since	swimming
is	a	natural	diuretic,	it	helps	to	combat	the	common	problem	of	water
retention,	which	in	turn	helps	banish	“bloat”	and	the	myriad	of
discomforts	it’s	responsible	for.
Occasionally,	competitive	athletes	experience	dysmenorrhea	(painful
periods)	or	amenorrhea	(cessation	of	periods).	No	one	is	quite	sure	why
this	happens,	but	it	may	be	that	their	lowered	percentage	of	body	fat
affects	the	production	of	hormones.	In	any	event,	this	effect	does	not	last
once	the	training	regimen	is	lightened.	And	lest	you	think	that	this	is	the
perfect	form	of	birth	control—this	phenomenon	is	evident	only	among
the	highest	level	of	competitive	athletes.
Q:	Can	I	swim	if	I’m	pregnant?
A:	Unless	there	are	special	circumstances,	there’s	absolutely	nothing
wrong	with	swimming	while	you’re	pregnant.	As	a	matter	of	fact,
exercise	assists	the	circulation,	which	helps	the	growth	of	the	fetus,	and
it	tones	the	muscles,	which	helps	the	mother	during	labor	and	delivery.
During	the	middle	and	later	stages	of	a	pregnancy,	dry-land	exercises
may	prove	uncomfortable	and	even	dangerous.	Even	if	you’re	been
exercising	all	along,	you	might	fall	and/or	jar	the	internal	organs.	But
water’s	buoyancy,	along	with	its	natural	cushioning	properties
(remember,	nature	chose	water	to	surround	and	protect	the	developing
baby),	makes	swimming	the	safest	and	most	comfortable	exercise	for
those	who	are	exercising	“for	two.”	In	fact,	you	may	feel	even	better	in
the	water	than	on	land	because	of	water’s	gravity-defying	properties.	All
these	reasons	are	why	obstetricians	often	recommend	that	you	swim
your	way	through	pregnancy.
Many	pregnant	women	who	were	fitness	swimmers	have	swum
through	their	pregnancies.	They	have	mentioned	that,	even	though	they
might	feel	tired	when	they	begin,	they	finish	their	swim	with	a	sense	of
well-being	and	relaxation.	However,	they’ve	pointed	out	that	they
usually	depend	more	on	their	arm	strength	than	on	their	legs,	so	as	not
to	put	any	unnecessary	strain	on	the	uterus.	Swimming	also	helped	them
to	keep	their	weight	in	check	and	eased	their	deliveries.
Q:	But	surely	I	shouldn’t	be	doing	fifty	yards	of	the	butterfly	in	my	eighth
month?
A:	True,	the	nature	of	your	workouts	will	change	as	your	body	does;
when	you’re	pregnant,	you	should	never	swim	so	hard	or	so	long	that
you	feel	uncomfortable.	(Be	sure	to	check	with	your	obstetrician	before
beginning	any	exercise	program.)	In	general,	you	should	gradually	begin
to	swim	more	slowly	as	your	pregnancy	progresses.	Do	fewer	and/or
longer	intervals	if	your	workouts	usually	include	them.	Concentrate	on
long,	slow,	easy	swims.	Your	stroke	mechanics	will	change	slightly
because	you’ll	become	more	buoyant,	but	chances	are	that	your	crawl,
backstroke,	and	breaststroke	will	remain	relatively	intact.	The	butterfly,
flip	turns,	and	
dives,	on	the	other	hand,	may	have	to	be	eliminated.	Do
more	and	more	water	exercises	during	a	workout,	too.	Swim	as	late	into
the	pregnancy	as	your	doctor	will	allow,	and	resume	swimming
afterward	to	regain	your	figure.
Q:	Can	I	swim	if	I	have	a	vaginal	or	bladder	infection?
A:	Mild	cases	of	vaginitis	or	cystitis	are	no	reason	to	stop	swimming.
The	water	won’t	enter	the	urethra;	and	the	small	amount	that	may	enter
the	vagina	is	negligible.	However,	if	your	condition	is	serious	enough	to
warrant	medical	attention,	follow	your	doctor’s	advice.	In	the	case	of	a
yeast	infection,	which	is	affected	by	excess	moisture,	your	physician	will
probably	recommend	that	you	stay	out	of	the	pool.
Q:	How	can	I	prevent	yeast	infections?
A:	Wear	a	dry	suit	whenever	possible	(e.g.,	in	between	events	at	swim
meets).	When	changing,	be	certain	to	dry	yourself	thoroughly	with	a
fresh	towel,	paper	towels,	or	a	blow	dryer.	Also,	your	diet	plays	an
important	part	in	preventing	these	infections.
N
UTRITION
,	D
IET
,	W
EIGHT
	L
OSS
Q:	Do	I	have	to	follow	a	special	diet	to	be	on	a	fitness	program?
A:	Not	really,	except	that	it	is	extra	important	that	you	get	the	right
amounts	of	all	the	nutrients	your	body	needs.	It’s	a	myth	that	athletes
need	more	protein	than	sedentary	people;	the	average	150-pound
person,	whatever	his	or	her	level	of	activity,	needs	about	50	grams	a
day,	and	some	authorities	maintain	that	even	that’s	an	overestimate.
Although	muscles	are	composed	of	protein,	extra	protein	alone	doesn’t
increase	your	muscle	mass.
Q:	So	what’s	a	balanced	diet?
A:	That’s	still	a	pretty	controversial	subject	as	far	as	vitamins	and
minerals	go.	However,	it	is	clear	that,	in	terms	of	protein,	carbohydrates,
and	fats,	a	balanced	diet	is	definitely	not	the	typical	American	fare,
which	is	far	too	high	in	refined	carbohydrates,	fat,	and	salt,	and	often
unnecessarily	high	in	protein.	According	to	the	United	States	Senate
Nutrition	
Committee’s	report,	“Dietary	Goals	for	the	United	States,”	the
typical	American	should	adopt	a	diet	that,	compared	to	his	present	one,
is:
lower	in	calories
lower	in	salt
lower	in	refined	carbohydrates	(ideally,	approximately	15
percent	of	total	calories)
lower	in	fats	of	all	kinds	(no	more	than	30	percent	of	all
calories	and	some	authorities	recommend	even	less	fat)
higher	in	complex	carbohydrates	such	as	fresh	fruits	and
vegetables	and	whole	grains	(ideally	55–60	percent	of	total
calories)
It’s	best	to	eat	a	wide	variety	of	wholesome	foods,	including	plenty	of
fresh	fruits	and	vegetables;	lots	of	whole	grains	and	beans;	and	some
low-fat	dairy	and	meat	products	such	as	skim	milk,	fish,	poultry,	and
beef	(if	you	eat	meat).	The	more	active	you	become,	the	more	calories
you’ll	need	to	maintain	your	weight	and	supply	your	body	with	nutrients
and	energy.	There’s	a	bonus	to	this	kind	of	eating	pattern,	too;	studies
suggest	that	low-fat,	high-fiber	diets	help	keep	you	healthier	by	reducing
the	risk	of	many	diseases,	including	heart	disease,	diabetes,	and	cancer.
Q:	Do	active	people	need	more	vitamins	and	minerals	than	other	people?
Should	I	take	supplements?
A:	The	evidence	is	not	completely	clear	on	this	controversial	subject;
however,	some	studies	indicate	physical	exertion	does	require	higher
levels	of	certain	nutrients,	and	that	certain	nutrients	can	improve	your
physical	performance.	In	addition,	many	published	reports	show	that,
even	in	affluent	and	presumably	well-fed	societies	such	as	ours,	some
people	are	highly	deficient	in	certain	nutrients.	For	example,	one	of	the
most	common	deficiencies	in	Americans	is	that	of	iron—particularly	in
women	of	childbearing	age.	The	fact	that	a	woman	loses	two	to	four
ounces	of	blood	every	month	means	that	many	women	don’t	have
enough	iron	in	their	systems	to	produce	hemoglobin,	which	is	what
carries	oxygen	to	the	body’s	muscles.	Since	women	store	less	iron	in
their	bodies	than	men	do,	and	have	a	lower	hemoglobin	count	to	begin
with,	they	may	have	a	problem	with	utilizing	oxygen	properly.	Because
a	muscle	needs	adequate	oxygen	to	perform,	an	active	woman	may	need
to	supplement	her	iron	intake.
A	lack	of	potassium	has	been	indicated	as	a	cause	of	muscle	cramps—
something	that	an	avid	exerciser	should	watch	out	for.	Since	strenuous
exercise	causes	you	to	excrete	potassium	to	help	your	body	dissipate	the
additional	heat	generated,	it’s	wise	to	replace	this	mineral	by	eating
fruits	and	vegetables.	Magnesium	is	another	mineral	the	level	of	which
plummets	during	heavy	exercise;	good	sources	are	dark	bread,	nuts,	and
vegetables.	So,	as	insurance,	many	athletes	and	active	people	take
vitamin	and	mineral	supplements.	But	remember,	these	are	supplements
to—not	substitutes	for—healthful	foods.
Q:	What’s	a	good	reducing	diet?
A:	Swimming	(or	any	other	strenuous,	regular	exercise)	will	help	cure
“spoon-in-mouth	disease,”	even	if	you	maintain	your	present	caloric
intake.	If	you	swam	enough	to	burn	up	about	500	calories	every	day,
you’d	lose	one	pound	per	week.	However,	since	most	fitness	swimmers
don’t	swim	that	long	or	that	hard,	they	also	need	to	modify	their	diet	in
order	to	lose	weight	at	a	reasonable	rate.
Diet	plans	come	and	go,	but	crash	diets	and	fad	diets	simply	won’t
work	over	the	long	haul.	You	can’t	stay	on	them	forever	because	they
are	either	too	boring,	too	extreme,	or	too	impractical.	Diet	plans	that
help	you	take	off	weight	and	keep	it	off	are	ones	that	are	designed	to
change	your	eating	habits	for	a	lifetime.	They’ll	also	reduce	the	risk	of
vitamin	and	mineral	deficiencies.	According	to	nutritionist	Shari
Lieberman	in	
The	Real	Vitamin	and	Mineral	Book
	(Avery	Publishing
Group,	Inc.,	1990),	researchers	found	that	none	of	the	eleven	best-selling
diet	books	supplied	a	full	100	percent	of	the	Recommended	Dietary
Allowances	(RDAs)	for	thirteen	vitamins	and	minerals.
There	are	many	appropriate	and	healthful	weight-reducing	options
now	available.	Since	weight-reducing	requirements,	goals,	and
motivation	vary	among	individuals,	you	might	find	it	helpful	to	get	an
overview	of	the	various	weight-loss	programs.	Two	books	that	might	aid
you	are	
Diets	That	Work
	by	D.	Scanlon,	R.D.	(Contemporary	Books,
1992),	and	
Straight	Talk	About	Weight	Control
	(Consumers	Union,	Mount
Vernon,	New	York,	1991).
But	whatever	your	diet,	be	sure	that	it’s	properly	balanced.	If	you	cut
down	too	much	on	protein,	for	example,	your	body	actually	begins	to
consume	the	protein	of	which	your	muscles	are	made.	And	active	people
actually	need	plenty	of	complex	carbohydrates,	for	energy	and	for	the	B
vitamins	that	your	body	needs	to	convert	food	into	energy.	Fats	and	junk
foods	you	can	do	away	with—your	body	requires	only	one	to	two	ounces
of	fat	per	day,	and	you’ll	probably	get	at	least	that	much	from	other
foods.
Q:	How	can	swimming	help	me	to	lose	(or	keep	from	gaining)	weight?
A:	In	many	ways.	That’s	why	I	say	to	people:	“You	like	to	eat?	You’d
better	swim!”	I	love	to	eat.	Most	babies’	first	words	are	something	like
“Mama”	or	“Dada”;	mine	was	“cheesecake!”
If	you	think	lying	around	all	day	drinking	diet	sodas	and	nibbling	on
plain	lettuce	sprinkled	with	lemon	juice	will	do	the	trick	…	think	again.
Exercise	is	the	magic	ingredient	in	the	recipe	for	successful	dieting.
It’s	physically	impossible	to	eat	while	swimming	(I	know—I’ve
tried!).	So	nip	a	potential	binge	in	the	bud:	slip	on	a	swim	suit
and	get	thee	to	a	pool.
Strenuous	exercise	actually	helps	to	curb	your	appetite.
Experiments	have	shown	that,	although	
moderate
	exercise	may
increase	your	desire	for	food,	
vigorous
	activities	such	as
running,	jumping	rope,	or	swimming	(which	also	burn	the	most
calories)	have	just	the	opposite	effect.	In	other	words,	the	last
thing	you’ll	feel	like	doing	after	a	two-mile	swim	is	stuffing
yourself.
Exercise	raises	your	metabolism	(the	rate	at	which	you	burn
calories),	not	only	during	the	activity	itself,	but	for	long
afterward.	So	hours	after	you’re	out	of	the	pool,	you’re	still
reaping	the	rewards.
It	seems	a	paradox,	but	exercise	actually	gives	you	more
energy,	so	you	may	not	feel	as	tempted	to	gobble	a	candy	bar	as
a	“pick-me-up.”	By	the	same	token,	once	you’ve	reached	a
certain	level	of	fitness,	you’ll	notice	that	empty-calorie	junk
foods	clog	up	your	finely	tuned	system.
Exercise	relaxes	you,	and	so	cuts	down	on	the	compulsive
eating	that	results	from	nervous	tension.	Next	time	you	“need”
a	slice	of	pie,	take	a	brisk	swim	instead.
So	do	what	I	do—leave	those	pounds	in	the	pool.
Q:	How	many	calories	will	I	burn	if	I	exercise	in	the	water?
A:	Although	the	oxygen	consumption	level	of	the	muscles	most
accurately	determines	the	calorie	burn,	your	heart	rate	is	more	easily
used	as	a	reference	for	your	workout	intensity.	Recent	research	has	been
done	with	water	exercise	which	indicates	that	the	number	of	calories
burned	during	water	walking	increases	with	the	depth	of	the	water.
Walking	3	
miles	per	hour	can	burn	up	to	500	calories	in	thigh-high
water.	A	half	hour	of	deep-water	running	burns	about	300	calories,
compared	with	about	200	to	250	for	running,	150	for	playing	tennis,
and	150	to	200	for	aerobics.	For	a	150-pound	person,	swimming	at	his
target	heart	rate	(THR)	burns	approximately	10-15	calories	a	minute;
this	is	approximately	600	calories	per	hour.
There	is	some	evidence	that	swimming	is	not	as	effective	as	dry-land
exercise	for	losing	
body	fat
,	if	you’re	already	fat.	This	may	be	because
swimming	is	basically	an	arm	exercise;	you	need	to	use	big	muscles	in
the	legs	and	buttocks	to	burn	fat.	And	if	you	are	doing	water	aerobics,
the	body	weighs	much	less	in	water	than	on	land,	so	the	leg	muscles
don’t	have	to	work	as	hard	as	on	dry	land.	In	addition,	exercising	in
water	also	helps	keep	muscles	cool.	The	more	the	muscles	heat	up,	the
harder	the	heart	beats	to	pump	blood	through	the	body	to	carry	the	heat
away;	if	the	water	already	is	doing	this	job,	the	heart	rate	doesn’t	need
to	rise	as	much.
The	bottom	line	is:	are	Olympic	swimmers	fat?	No!	Not	in	my	book!
S
WIMMING
	F
ASTER	AND
	F
ARTHER
5

Q:	What	are	the	key	elements	of	my	workout?
A:	To	get	the	most	out	of	your	workout,	whether	you	swim	for	fitness
or	competition,	you	should	focus	on	the	following:
Safety	Considerations
Including	how	you	feel	throughout	your	workout.
Environmental	Considerations
An	awareness	of	other	swimmers,	as	well	as	potential	dangers
including	equipment	usage.
Pacing	Your	Workout
Recognizing	your	energy	output	and	speed	as	you	progress
through	your	workout.
Stroke	Technique
Awareness	of	your	body	position,	your	arm	and	leg	motions
when	swimming,	as	well	as	when	practicing	drills.
Keeping	Track	of	Your	Workout
With	respect	to	number	of	repetitions	and/or	laps.
And	above	all—remember	to	
breathe
	rhythmically	and
continuously.
And	enjoy	your	workout!
Q:	What	should	I	do	when	I	feel	discouraged	about	my	swimming	progress?
A:	You	need	a	pep	talk—what	coaches	usually	hand	out	to	raise	their
teams’	spirits	and	to	help	them	over	the	rough	spots.	Everyone—fitness
and	competitive	swimmer	alike—needs	a	little	boost	now	and	then.
Remember	that	your	swimming	is	a	long-range	project.	It	requires
dedication	and	self-discipline;	depending	on	how	far	you	want	to	go
with	it,	you	may	find	it	taking	up	considerable	chunks	of	your	time	and
energy.	Stick	with	it	during	the	plateaus,	when	you	seemingly	are
making	little	progress.	Remember,	good	swimmers	aren’t	born;	they’re
made.	Hang	in	there!
Q:	Why	do	men	generally	outperform	women	in	sports?
A:	In	head-to-head	competition,	the	best	man	in	a	particular	sport	will
virtually	always	beat	the	best	woman.	Generally,	men	are	stronger	than
women	are.	They	have	larger	bones	and	muscles;	their	hearts	and	lungs
are	10	percent	larger,	and	they	have	higher	levels	of	oxygen-bearing
hemoglobin.	This	seems	to	be	brought	about	by	the	male	hormone
testosterone	since,	until	puberty,	male	and	female	capacities	don’t	differ
that	much.	But	strength	isn’t	the	final	word	in	athletic	endeavors—skill
and	endurance	account	for	a	lot—especially	in	swimming.
Consider	this:	the	differences	between	men’s	and	women’s	times	in	all
sports	are	rapidly	shrinking.	Women	today	are	breaking	records	set	by
men	during	the	1960s,	and	many	male	Olympic	champs	of	only	a	few
games	ago	wouldn’t	even	qualify	for	women’s	Olympic	teams	these	days.
The	difference	in	swimming	(and	track)	times	is	diminishing	so	fast	that
one	scientist,	K.	F.	Dyer,	an	Australian,	has	gone	so	far	as	to	say	that
they	will	vanish	completely,	at	least	in	the	long-distance	events,	quite
soon.	The	theoretical	explanation	of	why	women	give	men	a	run	for
their	money	in	longer-distance	swimming	is	twofold.	For	one	thing,
women	are	more	buoyant	than	men;	for	another,	women’s	bodies	have
more	energy	reserves	(in	the	form	of	fat),	which	they	are	able	to	tap
more	efficiently.	And	
although	women’s	narrower	shoulders	sacrifice
some	upper	body	strength,	they	make	up	for	it	by	allowing	a	more
resistance-free	passage	through	the	water.
Some	older	people	recognize	that	women	weren’t	given	the	chance	to
train	and	compete	the	way	men	were.	Title	IX	of	the	Education
Amendments,	passed	in	1972,	which	provides	that	“no	person	in	the
United	States	shall,	on	the	basis	of	sex,	be	excluded	from
participation	…	in	any	education	program	or	activity	receiving	Federal
financial	assistance,”	began	to	turn	things	around.	But	as	anyone
familiar	with	either	the	civil	rights	movement	or	the	women’s	movement
must	be	aware,	it’s	a	long	hard	battle	toward	equal	opportunity.
Q:	Why	are	some	people	better	at	sprinting	and	others	at	swimming	long
distances?
A:	Partly	because	of	training,	and	partly	because	of	heredity.	Every
muscle	is	made	up	of	two	types	of	fibers.	Red	fibers,	also	known	as	slow-
twitch	fibers,	give	you	endurance.	White,	or	fast-twitch,	fibers	are	for
speed	and	strength.	Everyone	has	a	different	ratio	of	red	to	white	fibers,
which	is	fixed	at	birth.	You	can,	however,	develop	whatever	you	have.
That’s	why	it’s	best	for	persons	with	a	higher	percentage	of	red	fibers	to
swim	long	distances;	and	for	persons	with	more	white	fibers	to	train	for
short	distances.	(Unfortunately,	the	only	way	you	can	tell	to	which
group	you	belong,	short	of	a	muscle	biopsy,	is	trial	and	error.)
Q:	How	can	I	develop	my	white	fibers	so	that	I	swim	faster?
A:	First	of	all,	you	should	swim	against	the	clock.	Interval	training
makes	you	aware	of	how	long	it	takes	you	to	swim	a	specific	distance.	(It
also	gives	you	an	incentive	to	swim	faster,	since	the	quicker	you	go	the
more	rest	you	get.)	Once	you’ve	developed	this	internal	clock,	you	have
to	train	harder	and/or	develop	a	more	efficient	technique	in	order	to
reduce	your	times.	Ultimately,	your	body	will	figure	out	its	own	little
tricks	(in	addition	to	the	tips	in	this	book)	to	speed	you	through	the
water.	You	will	reach	a	point	where	your	mind	and	body	will	work
together	to	find	the	best	way	for	
you
	to	swim.
A	coach	or	a	more	advanced	swimmer	can	accelerate	this	process	by
conveying	to	the	developing	swimmer	those	little	nuances	that	improve
performance.	This	is	truer	of	swimming	than	of	many	other	sports	in
which,	if	you	don’t	“have	it”	naturally,	there’s	very	little	that	you	can	do
about	it.	In	swimming,	there’s	plenty	of	room	for	those	who	aren’t
“naturals”	
to	apply	techniques	as	effectively	as	those	who	are	considered
natural	talents.	As	with	anything	else,	it	takes	time	to	learn	these
subtleties,	and	many	swimmers	go	through	a	long	period	of	trial	and
error.	Hopefully,	this	book	will	reduce	that	time	as	much	as	possible.
Q:	What	causes	the	muscles	to	feel	tight	after	a	hard	swim?
A:	This	tight	feeling	is	caused	by	lactic	acid,	a	by-product	of	the
chemical	reaction	that	occurs	in	the	muscles.	The	muscle	cells	are
converting	food	fuel	into	energy,	using	oxygen.	Lactic	acid	builds	up
when	the	cells	don’t	get	enough	oxygen.	As	you	swim	regularly	over
time,	your	body	learns	to	use	oxygen	more	efficiently.	So,	the	better
condition	you’re	in	and	the	longer	it	takes	you	to	go	into	oxygen	debt,
the	longer	you	can	function	in	that	state	and	the	faster	you’ll	recover
from	it.	Also,	learning	how	to	pace	yourself	evenly	can	help	reduce	the
buildup	of	lactic	acid	in	the	beginning	of	your	swim.
Q:	Why	do	my	legs	get	tight	and	tired	quickly	when	I’m	swimming	fast?
A:	During	a	workout,	a	timed	swim,	or	a	race,	many	swimmers	have	a
tendency	to	overkick.	When	this	happens,	the	large	muscles	in	your	legs,
particularly	the	quadriceps	along	the	front	of	the	thigh,	use	up
tremendous	amounts	of	oxygen	even	though	they	push	more	water	up
and	down	than	backward,	they	don’t	add	that	much	to	your	forward
propulsion.	As	a	result,	you	tire	quickly.	Since	kicking	also	works	your
abdominal	and	chest	muscles,	and	your	diaphragm,	overkicking	may
also	throw	off	your	rhythmic	breathing	pattern.	To	avoid	oxygen	debt
during	sprints	or	fast	swims,	try	to	establish	a	kicking	pattern	that’s
proportionate	to	the	rest	of	the	stroke.	Once	you’ve	worn	yourself	out	by
overkicking,	it’s	difficult	to	resume	comfortable	breathing	and	get	a
second	wind,	because	you	have	to	“repay”	your	oxygen	debt.	(See	
this
page
	for	the	relative	power	of	the	pull	and	the	kick	in	the	various
strokes.)
Q:	My	arms,	shoulders,	and	the	muscles	along	my	upper	body	get	sore	after
a	long	swim.	What	should	I	do?
A:	Distance	swimmers	especially	rely	on	their	upper	bodies	to	supply
most	of	the	forward	propulsion.	So	during	a	long	swim,	such	as	1,500
meters	(metric	mile),	or	a	2-mile	“marathon,”	the	muscles	you	mention
get	a	tremendous	workout.	The	best	way	to	prevent	them	from
tightening	
up,	especially	after	a	race,	is	to	take	a	slow,	easy	cool-down
swim	(or	“swim	down”).	Then	stretch	the	upper	body	for	a	few	minutes
(see	“Swimmers’	Shape-ups,”	
this	page
);	repeat	the	stretch	several	times
during	the	first	half	hour	afterward,	if	possible.
Q:	Where	and	when	did	the	competitive	swimming	begin?
A:	Although	swimming	wasn’t	part	of	the	ancient	Olympics,	it	was
enjoyed	by	the	Greeks	and	other	early	civilizations.	Young	men	swam	in
ancient	Greece	and	Rome	as	part	of	their	military	training.	The	first
recorded	swimming	competitions	were	held	in	Japan	in	36	
B.C.
Modern	competitive	swimming	began	in	the	mid-nineteenth	century.
Shortly	thereafter,	what	later	came	to	be	known	as	the	Amateur
Swimming	Association	was	formed	and	established	rules	for	competition.
In	1908,	FINA	(Fédération	Internationale	de	Natation	Amateur),	the
world	governing	body	for	swimming	and	other	aquatic	competition,	was
founded.	When	the	first	modern	Olympiad	was	held	in	Greece	in	1896,
there	were	three	men’s	freestyle	events,	which	were	swum	in	the	ocean.
It	wasn’t	until	the	games	held	in	Stockholm	in	1912	that	swimming
events	for	women	were	included.	Now,	swimming	is	a	major	part	of	the
summer	games.
Q:	Does	shaving	down	(shaving	the	arms,	legs,	and	chest)	before	a	race
actually	increase	a	swimmer’s	speed?
A:	This	can	help—psychologically	as	well	as	physically.	Shaving,
which	you	usually	save	for	your	biggest	meet	of	the	season,	can	be	an
important	part	of	the	psych-up	that	you	do	for	the	big	event.	It	makes
your	body	feel	lighter,	more	slippery;	you	feel	as	though	you’re	getting
more	out	of	your	kick,	riding	higher	in	the	water,	and	slicing	through	it
cleanly	and	smoothly.
Q:	What	and	when	should	I	eat	before	a	competition?
A:	It’s	best	to	eat	a	relatively	light,	easily	digestible	meal	about	three
to	four	hours	before	the	event.	Some	favorites	are	tuna	sandwiches,	lean
meat	or	poultry,	milk,	or	fruit.	Foods	high	in	fat	should	be	avoided
because	they	take	a	long	time	to	digest	and	may	therefore	cause
discomfort.	Highly	refined	carbohydrates,	such	as	candy	bars,	should	be
avoided,	since	they	stimulate	the	production	of	insulin,	which	eventually
lowers	your	blood	sugar	and	results	in	a	let-you-down	instead	of	a	pick-
me-up.
Q:	What’s	carbohydrate	loading?
A:	Muscles	get	their	energy	from	glycose,	which	the	body
manufactures	from	carbohydrates.	However,	since	the	body	has	a	limited
capacity	to	store	this	sugar,	athletes	often	load	up	on	carbohydrates—
especially	pasta,	potatoes,	and	bread—before	an	event	in	order	to	make
sure	that	their	glycogen	stores	are	filled	to	capacity.	However,	for
swimming	a	workout	or	even	a	meet	(unless	it’s	a	marathon	swim),
carbohydrate	loading	is	not	really	needed,	since,	in	this	case,	the
demand	on	your	glycose	reserves	is	not	that	severe.
Q:	What	is	Masters	swimming?
A:	Masters	swimming	is	a	nationwide	competitive	swimming	program.
It	began	when	Dr.	Ransom	Arthur,	of	the	Navy	Medical	Neuropsychiatric
Research	Unit	in	San	Diego,	became	inspired	by	the	Amateur	Athletic
Union’s	Masters	track	and	field	program	and	joined	forces	with	John
Spannuth,	then	president	of	the	American	Swimming	Coaches
Association.	The	Navy	supported	the	idea	of	establishing	a	regular
swimming	program	for	adults,	and	the	first	Masters	swim	meet	was	held
in	May	1970.	From	that	humble	beginning	(there	were	only	fifty
participants),	the	program	grew:	as	of	this	writing,	there	are
approximately	thirty	thousand	Masters	swimmers,	and	their	ranks	are
ever	expanding,	due	in	part	to	the	continuing	interest	and	sponsorship
for	promoting	adult	fitness	Masters	activities	by	the	U.	S.	Masters
Swimming,	Inc.
Q:	What	are	the	goals	of	the	Masters	Swimming	Program?	What	benefits
will	I	derive	if	I	join?
A:	The	program’s	primary	purpose	is	to	promote	physical	fitness	via
training	and	competitive	swimming.	The	competition	is	relatively	low-
key	and	is	held	in	five-year	age	groups	(from	twenty-five	to	twenty-nine,
to	ninety	and	over)	so	that	you’re	competing	against	swimmers	who	are
approximately	the	same	age	you	are.	By	setting	goals	toward	which
older	participants	can	work,	the	program	provides	motivation	for
continuing	a	training	regimen	despite	inconveniences	and	time
pressures.	Competition	is	a	useful	way	of	measuring	your	progress,	and
it’s	exciting.	A	fringe	benefit	is	to	foster	fellowship	and	camaraderie
among	the	participants.	If	there	are	no	Masters	clubs	near	you,	help	to
start	one.	(I	did.)
Q:	Where	can	I	find	more	information	about	Masters	swimming?
A:	Ask	for	information	from	either	your	local	Masters	swimming	club
or	contact	U.S.	Masters	Swimming,	Inc.
U.S.	Masters	Swimming,	Inc.
2	Peters	Avenue
Rutland,	MA	01549
Tel:	(508)	886-6631
FAX:	(508)	886-6265
Q:	What	are	the	Senior	Olympics?
A:	In	addition	to	Masters	swimming,	there	are	also	competitions
locally,	regionally,	nationally,	and	internationally	that	encompass	senior
age	groups,	including	the	United	States	Senior	Sports	Classic.	There	are
competitions	for	men	and	women	aged	fifty-five	and	over	in	a	variety	of
individual	and	team	sports	including	swimming.	For	further	information,
write	to:
U.S.N.S.O.	(United	States	National	Senior	Olympics)
14323	South	Outer	Forty	Road
Suite	N300
Chesterfield,	MO	63017
Q:	What	about	swim	camps?
A:	Aside	from	attending	regular	organized	workouts,	you	can	go	to
camp.	There	are	many	swim	camps	around	the	country,	open	to
swimmers	of	all	ages	and	abilities,	where	you	can	spend	five	to	seven
hours	a	day	in	the	water,	learning	from	coaches,	trainers,	and	other
swimmers.	Activities	include	videotapes	of	your	technique,	with	various
films	and	lectures,	to	learn	about	conditioning,	stretching,	dry-land
exercises,	and	nutrition	for	swimmers.	Length	of	camp,	cost,	and
amenities	will	vary.	Novice	fitness	swimmers	and	Masters	swimmers	can
benefit	greatly	from	attending	a	swim	camp.
To	find	swim	camps,	browse	through	the	swim	magazines	listed	on
this	page
.	Check	them	also	for	the	local	swim	clinics	that	are	held	near
you	throughout	the	country.
O
DD	AND
	E
NDS
Q:	I’m	a	runner	who	is	considering	beginning	a	swimming	program;	how
does	swimming	compare	with	running?
A:	Both	are	excellent	aerobic	exercises.	If	you	compared	a	champion
runner	with	a	champion	swimmer,	the	runner	would	go	one	mile	in
about	four	minutes;	the	swimmer	would	cover	a	mile	in	about	four	times
as	long,	or	sixteen	minutes.	The	training	effect	follows	the	same	ratio:
the	benefits	of	swimming	a	half	mile	are	comparable	to	those	of	running
two	miles.	(Of	course,	skill	is	a	mitigating	factor—if	you’re	a	good
runner	but	an	inefficient	swimmer,	for	instance,	swimming	a	half	mile
may	be	harder	for	you	than	running	even	four	miles.)
If	you’ve	been	running	for	fitness	and	switch	over	to	swimming,	you’ll
notice	that	there	are	fewer	injuries	and	pains—no	shin	splints,	no	foot
problems	such	as	blisters,	and	a	far	lower	incidence	of	joint	problems—
because	there’s	no	pounding	the	pavement.	When	you	swim,	there’s	less
danger	of	overheating	while	you	exercise,	too,	since	the	water	acts	as	a
natural	coolant	for	your	body.
Since	swimming	uses	the	arms	and	upper	body	more	than	the	legs,
you	may	want	to	balance	your	program	with	some	dry-land	exercises.	I
think	jogging,	walking	briskly,	jumping	rope,	bicycle	riding,	skating,
skiing,	and	dancing	are	all	good	adjuncts	to	your	swimming	regimen.
You	may	want	to	do	them	especially	on	the	days	when	you	don’t	swim.
Q:	How	can	I	swim	if	the	pool	is	crowded?
A:	The	first	thing	to	do	is	to	try	to	swim	in	a	counterclockwise
direction	within	your	lane,	staying	to	the	right	side	much	as	if	you	were
driving	along	a	two-way	road.	Try	to	find	a	lane	with	swimmers	that	go
about	the	same	speed	as	you.	(Some	pools	label	their	lanes	according	to
speed.)	If	this	isn’t	possible,	you	can	pass	on	the	left	if	you’re	faster
(assuming	that	no	one	is	coming	in	the	opposite	direction);	or	let	others
pass	you	if	you’re	slower.	Another	possibility	is	to	swim	one	fast	lap,
then	get	out	and	walk	back	to	your	starting	side	and	do	another	lap.
(These	are	“windsprints.”)	If	worse	comes	to	worst,	do	some	stationary
kicking,	bobbing,	treading,	or	other	water	exercises	until	the	traffic
clears	up.	Swimming	isn’t	supposed	to	be	a	contact	sport;	nor	should	you
have	to	wait	around	for	your	own	lane—depending	on	the	length	of	the
pool,	up	to	twelve	swimmers	can	use	one	lane	if	they	observe	principles
of	pool	courtesy.
Q:	I’m	discouraged	that	I	can’t	seem	to	make	much	progress	in	my
swimming.	What	can	I	do?
A:	At	any	stage	of	the	game,	swimmers	can	reach	a	plateau.	Usually
the	support	and	advice	of	another	swimmer	is	the	key:
Swim	with	a	buddy	if	you	haven’t	been	already.	Having	another
person	there	can	make	all	the	difference	in	the	world.
Join	a	swim	class	to	obtain	some	general	pointers.
Take	private	lessons	from	an	instructor	who	makes	you	feel	at
ease.
Q:	What’s	the	difference	between	a	“lap”	and	a	“length”	in	a	pool?
A:	In	the	United	States,	at	least,	they’re	usually	the	same	thing.
Although	a	few	people	prefer	to	count	a	lap	as	one	round	trip,	the	term
generally	means	one	length	of	the	pool.
Q:	Why	do	I	have	the	urge	to	urinate	while	I’m	swimming?
A:	Although	there’s	no	physiological	explanation	for	this	widely
observed	phenomenon,	various	medical	experts	have	speculated	that	it
may	be	caused	in	part	by	the	difference	between	the	air	and	water
temperatures	and	by	the	increased	activity.
Q:	Why	do	I	get	so	thirsty	during	and	after	a	swim?
A:	Even	though	you	may	not	realize	it,	you	perspire	when	you	swim.
You	also	exhale	water	vapor,	and	you	produce	more	urine,	as	discussed
above.	Finally,	the	alum	added	to	the	pool	water	tends	to	make	your
mouth	feel	dry.
Q:	Should	I	learn	all	those	different	strokes?
A:	Although	it’s	no	crime	to	do	the	doggie	paddle,	the	strokes
described	in	this	book	are	much	more	efficient—and	therefore,	once	you
get	the	hang	of	them,	actually	easier.	Learning	and	improving	the
different	strokes	also	makes	swimming	more	fun,	more	interesting,	more
challenging,	and	a	better	all-round	exercise.
Q:	How	can	I	keep	track	of	my	laps	when	I’m	swimming	a	long	distance?
A:	It’s	easy	to	lose	count,	but	the	more	you	swim,	the	easier	it
becomes.	Here	are	a	few	tricks	to	help	you	remember.	The	first	is	to
divide	the	swim,	mentally,	into	smaller	ones.	Let’s	say	you’re	swimming
1,650	yards	or	1,500	meters	(almost	one	mile)	straight.	In	a	25-yard
pool,	you	can	divide	the	swim	into	four	400-yard	swims	(and	subdivide
that	if	needed),	plus	two	laps.	For	shorter	swims,	you	can	divide	the
distance	into	100s;	just	count	“1”	for	every	100	yards.	To	help	you	mark
the	end	of	each	segment,	do	a	different	turn:	alternate	closed	and	flip
turns	after	every	100	yards,	for	instance.
You	can	also	keep	track	by	varying	your	breathing	pattern.	Breathe
rhythmically	(on	the	same	side)	during	every	odd-numbered	100;
breathe	alternately	(every	three	arm	strokes	for	the	crawl)	during	the
even	100s.	You	could	base	a	whole	workout	on	a	pyramid-type	breathing
pattern:	breathe	every	other	stroke,	then	every	third	stroke,	every	fourth
stroke,	every	fifth	stroke,	and	back	down	again.
An	alternate	approach	is	to	swim	“by	the	clock.”	If	you	know	that	you
cover	50	yards	(two	laps	in	a	25-yard	pool)	in	one	minute,	for	example,
swimming	for	a	straight	10	minutes	means	that	you	will	cover
approximately	500	yards,	or	twenty	laps.
An	amusing	alternative	is	to	sing	to	yourself,	as	Diana	Nyad	does
during	her	marathon	open-water	swims.	(Her	version	of	“Row,	Row,
Row	Your	Boat”	takes	seventy-five	choruses	to	make	a	mile;	another	of
her	favorites	is	“Frère	Jacques”	in	three	languages.)	Anyone	know	the
words	to	“Ebb	Tide”?
Q:	What	is	a	“swimmer’s	high”?
A:	This	is	a	state,	comparable	to	“jogger’s	high,”	in	which	you	get	the
feeling	of	simultaneous	exhilaration	and	calmness.	It	usually	occurs	once
you’ve	gotten	into	the	main	set	of	your	workout.	Your	mind	has	drifted
away	from	your	daily	concerns;	your	breathing	is	not	labored;	your
muscles	are	loose.	It’s	a	mental	as	well	as	a	physical	high	that	leaves	you
feeling	better,	with	more	energy	and	direction	than	you	had	before.	(Or
maybe	you’re	just	hooked	on	chlorine!)
Q:	Sometimes	I	forget	the	combination	to	my	lock;	any	tips	on	how	to
remember	it?
A:	You	can	write	the	combination	on	the	inside	of	your	goggles	strap
or	bathing	cap,	or	on	your	bathing	suit	tag.	You	might	want	to	use
indelible	ink,	but	I	find	that	most	ballpoint	pen	inks	last	and	last.
Q:	Why	is	it	best	to	swim	three	times	a	week?
A:	According	to	recent	studies,	your	body	needs	aerobic	exercise
approximately	every	sixty	hours	in	order	to	maintain	a	level	of	fitness.
That’s	about	every	two	and	a	half	days,	which	works	out	to
approximately	every	other	day,	or	three	times	a	week.
Q:	Is	it	possible	to	swim	too	much?
A:	Yes.	If	you	feel	overtired,	run	down,	achy	or	listless,	or	that	you’re
working	hard	without	seeing	any	improvement,	you	may	be	swimming
too	much.	Even	in	your	training,	you	can	go	overboard	and	become
“stale,”	especially	if	you	don’t	peak	and	taper	for	a	meet	(see	
this	page
).
Fitness	and	competitive	swimmers	alike	should	remember	that	there’s
more	to	life	than	swimming;	no	matter	how	dedicated	you	are,	leave
some	time	and	energy	for	other	interests.
Q:	My	spouse	(child,	friend)	swims	so	much	that	I	never	see	him	or	her
anymore.	What	should	I	do?
A:	Perhaps	you	should	consider	getting	in	the	swim,	too.	Not	only	is	it
more	enjoyable	if	both	of	you	swim,	but	you’ll	both	be	healthier,	and
you’ll	have	an	interest	to	share.	And	if	you	become	a	swimming	family,
chances	are	that	you’ll	become	more	active,	change	your	eating	habits
for	the	better,	and	meet	new	friends.
Q:	Why	do	some	people	call	swimming	the	“Fountain	of	Youth”?
A:	Dr.	Paul	Hutinger,	a	Masters	swim	champion	in	his	mid-sixties	and
a	research	specialist	in	the	physiology	of	exercise	at	Western	Illinois
University,	has	called	swimming	the	“Fountain	of	Youth.”	You	can	slow
down	and	even	help	reverse	the	aging	process	if	you	follow	a	regular,
year-round	fitness	program.	But	this	exercise	must	continue	throughout
life	if	it	is	to	have	an	extended	effect.	Swimming	is	the	ideal	sport	to
enjoy	your	whole	life	long,	because	it	causes	very	little	wear	and	tear	on
your	joints.	Aging	is	also	affected	by	heredity	and	pathology,	and	the
benefits	of	a	fitness	program	depend	to	a	certain	degree	on	your	age	at
its	inception.	So,	although	swimming	may	not	be	the	“Fountain	of
Youth”	for	everyone,	it	may	at	least	prove	to	be	the	“Fountain	of	Middle
Age.”	And	if	that	doesn’t	impress	you	twenty-year-olds—wait	till	you’re
seventy!
Q:	Where	can	I	swim	when	abroad?
A:	Purchase	a	copy	of	the	F.I.N.A.	handbook.	It	will	tell	you	how	to
contact	the	people	who	can	advise	you	about	suitable	pools	in	various
countries.	Also	contact	U.	S.	Masters	Swimming	and	Masters	Swimming
International.
Q:	Sometimes	my	muscles	begin	to	feel	a	little	tight	when	I	swim.	What
should	I	do?
A:	Do	these	in-between	loosening-up	exercises.
Bob	in	place	for	a	minute	or	two.
Swim	a	few	very	slow	laps,	exaggerating	your	stroke	roll	and
recovery	of	arms.
Shrug	your	shoulders,	rotate	your	head	and	arms,	stretch	your
legs	and	back,	and	do	water	exercises.	Then	resume	swimming.
Q:	Will	smoking	affect	my	swimming	ability?
A:	Definitely.	Cigarette	smoking	speeds	up	your	heartbeat,	increases
your	blood	pressure,	and	lowers	the	supply	of	oxygen	in	your	blood.
Over	a	period	of	time,	smoking	causes	inflammation	of	the	bronchial
tubes,	an	increase	in	the	secretion	of	mucus,	changes	in	the	epithelial
cells,	and	a	destruction	of	the	lungs’	elasticity.
Of	the	hundreds	of	chemical	substances	in	cigarette	smoke,	nicotine,
“tar,”	and	carbon	monoxide	are	the	most	dangerous.	Nicotine	constricts
your	blood	vessels,	cutting	down	the	flow	of	blood	and	oxygen	and
making	your	heart	pump	harder.	“Tar,”	which	contains	chemicals	that
have	caused	cancer	in	laboratory	animals,	forms	a	brown	sticky	coating
over	your	lungs.	Carbon	monoxide	inhibits	the	red	blood	cells’	ability	to
carry	oxygen	throughout	the	body—and	stays	in	your	system	for	as	long
as	six	hours	after	your	last	cigarette.	All	of	these	effects	cut	down	on
your	“wind”	and	so	prevent	you	from	becoming	the	swimmer	you	might
be.	I	strongly	urge	you	to	give	up	smoking	as	part	of	your	fitness
program.	Swimming	can	help	you	here,	by	reducing	tension,	and	by
giving	you	a	glimpse	of	what	healthy	lungs,	filled	with	clean	air,	feel
like.
Q:	What’s	synchronized	swimming?	Where	can	I	find	out	more	about
	
it?
A:	Synchronized	swimming	is	the	competitive	form	of	water	ballet,
which	you	may	have	seen	in	Esther	Williams	films.	It’s	like	figure	skating
in	the	water.	Here,	stroke	variations	with	“figures”	similar	to	gymnastic
stunts	are	combined	to	form	a	graceful	routine	to	musical
accompaniment.	It’s	beautiful	to	watch	and	fun	to	try.	I’ve	included	a
few	water	exercises	(
this	page
)	that	are	also	synchronized	swimming
workout	skills;	these	are	excellent	for	developing	upper	body	strength.
If	you’re	interested,	you	can	subscribe	to	a	bimonthly	publication	that
will	tell	you	what’s	happening	in	this	exciting	sport:
Synchro
c/o	Dawn	Bean
11902	Red	Hill	Avenue
Santa	Ana,	CA	92705
Your	local	Y,	swim	club,	or	recreation	center	can	advise	you	on
synchronized	swimming	activity	in	your	area.
Q:	Does	caffeine	affect	my	swimming?
A:	It	may—but	exactly	how	depends	on	your	own	body	chemistry.	It
may	raise	your	heart	rate,	make	you	jittery,	short	of	breath,	even
lightheaded.	On	the	other	hand,	you	might	be	the	type	(like	me)	who
does	well	with	caffeine	coursing	through	your	veins.
Why?	In	an	article	in	the	June	1978	
RunnersWorld
,	Dr.	David	Costill,
an	exercise	physiologist	at	Ball	State	University,	recommended	two	cups
of	coffee	taken	about	one	hour	before	exercise,	because	research	found
that	this	caused	a	19	percent	increase	in	the	length	of	time	needed	to
reach	exhaustion.	In	another	study,	caffeine	taken	two	hours	before
exercise	increased	the	amount	of	work	performed	by	7	percent.	The
reason	is	apparently	that	caffeine	increases	the	amount	of	fat	burned	for
energy	(40	percent	as	opposed	to	22	percent	without	caffeine),	which
lessens	the	amount	of	glycogen	used	by	the	muscle	cells,	which,	in	turn,
forestalls	exhaustion.
Q:	Will	swimming	give	me	bulky	muscles?
A:	No.	Swimming	is	an	exercise	that	results	in	smooth,	firm,	elongated
muscles.	If	you	want	more	bulk	and	“definition”	you	need	to	do	more
dry-land	exercises	such	as	running,	calisthenics,	and	particularly	weight
lifting.
Q:	Am	I	too	old,	obese,	or	uncoordinated	to	swim?
A:	No!	Everyone,	whatever	his	or	her	age,	weight,	or	level	of	ability
(or	sex,	color,	creed,	national	origin,	or	political	persuasion),	can	enjoy
the	lifetime	benefits	of	swimming!
J
UST	FOR
	F
UN
Throw	these	fascinating	facts	around	at	the	next	pool	party.
Q:	Where	did	the	idea	of	swimming	pools	come	from?
A:	For	centuries,	natural	bodies	of	water	were	the	only	swimming
facilities	available.	The	eighteenth	century,	however,	added	a	new
wrinkle	in	fresh-and	saltwater	dipping:	“floating	swimming	baths.”
Popular	in	England,	France	and	the	United	States,	these	were	floating
docks	in	natural	water.	Eventually	they	gave	way	to	stationary	ones	that
stayed	put	on	the	beach	floor.	Landlocked	pools	finally	arrived	in	this
country,	Germany,	and	England	in	the	middle	of	the	last	century.
Q:	What	are	some	of	the	more	unusual	pools	that	have	been	built?
A:	There	was	William	Randolph	Hearst’s	18-karat	gold-lined	indoor
pool	at	San	Simeon.	And	Wilt	Chamberlain’s	moatlike	pool	that	allowed
visitors	the	option	of	either	using	the	front	door	or	swimming	right	into
a	small	pool	in	his	living	room.	Then	there	were	the	Hollywood	models:
Jayne	Mansfield’s	heart-shaped	hole	in	the	ground,	and	Liberace’s	grand-
piano	look-alike.
Q:	Where	is	the	world’s	largest	swimming	pool?
A:	According	to	the	
Guinness	Book	of	World	Records
,	it’s	the	Orthleib
pool	in	Casablanca,	Morocco:	1,547	feet	long	and	246	feet	wide.	This
saltwater	pool	is	especially	recommended	for	lap	swimmers	who	have
trouble	keeping	count.
Q:	How	fast	are	the	fastest	swimmers?
A:	The	fastest	human	swimmers	move	through	the	water	at	5	to	6
miles	an	hour.	Contrast	that	with	dolphins,	which	swim	up	to	24	miles
an	
hour,	and	whales,	which	swim	up	to	35	miles	an	hour.	(But,	as	a	look
at	the	records	will	show,	we’re	getting	faster	all	the	time.)
Q:	Where	can	I	see	a	12-ton	sculpture	entitled
	Swimmer	
and	a	3,200-tile
mosaic	depicting	King	Neptune?
A:	At	the	International	Swimming	Hall	of	Fame	in	Fort	Lauderdale,
Florida.	This	huge	swimming	complex	devoted	to	the	glory	of	the	sport
contains	a	pool	and	diving	complex,	an	auditorium,	a	film	library,	the
world’s	largest	bookstore	devoted	exclusively	to	aquatics,	and	a	gift	and
souvenir	shop	where	you	can	buy	all	sorts	of	swimming	memorabilia-
bumper	stickers,	T-shirts,	post	cards,	bathing	suits,	and	novelties.
Over	forty	thousand	people	visit	the	Hall	of	Fame	every	year—many
to	view	the	major	swimming	and	diving	competitions	held	there,	and	to
browse	through	the	Hall	of	Fame’s	exhibits	devoted	to	its	honorees	(such
as	Johnny	Weissmuller,	Buster	Crabbe,	Gertrude	Ederle,	and	Esther
Williams),	to	gaze	at	its	treasure	trove	of	memorabilia	including	Lloyd
Bridges’s	
Sea	Hunt
	wetsuit,	and	an	elegant	800	
B.C.
	Greek	bas-relief	of
swimmers.
Q:	Who	was	the	first	person	to	swim	across	the	English	Channel?
A:	Captain	Matthew	Webb,	in	1875.	Since	then,	hundreds	of	other
hardy	souls	have	followed	in	his	wake.	Gertrude	Ederle	was	the	first
woman	to	cross	it,	in	1926.	The	first	double	crossing	was	achieved	by
Antonio	Abertondo,	an	Argentinian,	in	1961;	it	took	him	43	hours	and
10	minutes.	The	fastest	single	crossing	to	date	was	made	by	Penny	Dean,
on	July	29,	1978;	her	time	was	7	hours,	40	minutes.	The	youngest	was
Marcus	Hooper,	age	twelve,	who	made	the	swim	August	5–6,	1979;	his
time	was	14	hours,	37	minutes.
Q:	Who	is	the	greatest	swimmer	that	ever	lived?
A:	Most	people	would	agree	that	that	title	should	go	to	Johnny
Weissmuller,	even	though	his	world	records	were	all	topped	long	ago.
Over	the	course	of	his	career,	he	won	five	Olympic	gold	medals,	fifty-one
National	Championships—and	never	lost	a	single	race	during	his	ten-
year	career!	The	record	he	set	in	1927	for	the	100-yard	freestyle	(51
seconds)	stood	for	seventeen	years.	(Today	records	rarely	hold	for	more
than	seventeen	months.)
Q:	What	about	some	other	remarkable	swim	personalities?
A:	Of	course,	there’s	Mark	Spitz,	who	became	an	international
celebrity	by	winning	an	unprecedented	seven	gold	medals	in	the	1972
Olympics	in	Munich.	And	one	of	the	world’s	most	impressive	marathon
swimmers	is	Diana	Nyad,	who	has	swum	around	Manhattan	Island	(28
miles),	crossed	Lake	Ontario	(32	miles),	swum	from	Capri	to	Naples	(22
miles),	and	from	the	Great	Barrier	Reef	to	the	Australian	Coast	(50
miles).	In	1979	she	was	the	first	person	to	defy	the	Gulf	Stream	by
swimming	from	the	Bahamas	to	Florida	(80	miles).
Duke	Kahanamoku,	both	a	freestyle	sprinter	and	a	water	polo	player,
and	Juno	Stover	Irwin,	tower	and	platform	diver,	were	the	only
competitors	in	history	to	make	the	U.	S.	Olympic	swimming	and	diving
teams	for	four	separate	Olympics.	(Juno	also	has	another	unique	record
—she	mothered	a	child	between	each	of	her	Olympic	diving	stints!)
Coach	George	Haines	holds	the	distinction	of	being	on	the	U.	S.
Olympic	swim	coaching	staff	since	1960,	and	is	recognized	as	one	of
America’s	top	coaches	of	the	sport.	One	of	Coach	Haines’s	teams,	in	fact,
the	one	that	competed	in	1976	in	Montreal,	won	every	event	except	one
(the	200-meter	breaststroke)	in	an	unprecedented	Olympic	sweep.
1
Consultants	for	this	section:
Stephen	B.	Kurtin,	M.D.,	Assistant	Clinical	Professor	of	Dermatology,	Mount	Sinai	School	of
Medicine	(and	Masters	swimmer).
Milton	A.	Gabrielson,	Ph.D.,	editor	of	
Swimming	Pools,	A	Guide	to	Their	Planning,	Design	and
Operation
,	Council	for	National	Cooperation	in	Aquatics	Publication;	Special	Assistant	to
the	President,	Nova	University,	Fort	Lauderdale,	Florida.
2
Consultants	for	this	section:
David	H.	Abramson,	M.D.,	Attending	Surgeon	at	Manhattan	Eye	and	Ear	Hospital	(former
international	competitive	swimmer).
Milton	Costello,	B.M.E.,	Licensed	Professional	Engineer,	Wantagh,	New	York.
Bruce	M.	Hyman,	M.D.,	Director	of	Adult	Out-Patient	Eye	Clinic,	Roosevelt	Hospital,	New
York.
John	S.	Rodman,	M.D.,	Attending	Physician	at	Lenox	Hill	Hospital	in	New	York	(and
Masters	swimmer).
3
Consultants	for	this	section:
Burton	Berson,	M.D.,	Chief	of	the	Sports	Medicine	Clinic,	New	York;	Assistant	Clinical
Professor	of	Orthopedic	Surgery	at	Mount	Sinai	Hospital,	New	York.
Willibald	Nagler,	M.D.,	F.A.C.P.,	Psychiatrist-in-Chief,	Department	of	Rehabilitation
Medicine	at	New	York	Hospital-Cornell	Medical	Center.
Max	M.	Novick,	M.D.,	Clinical	Professor	of	Surgery,	Director	of	Sports	Medicine	CMDNJ-
New	Jersey	Medical	School,	Perth	Amboy,	New	Jersey.
Patrick	O’Leary,	M.D.,	Attending	Orthopedic	Surgeon,	Lenox	Hill	Hospital,	New	York.
John	L.	Xethalis,	M.D.,	Attending	Orthopedic	Surgeon,	Lenox	Hill	Hospital,	New	York.
Lenore	R.	Zohman,	M.D.,	Director	of	Montefiore	Hospital	Exercise	Laboratory	and
Cardiology	Program,	The	Bronx,	New	York.
4
Consultants	for	this	section:
Donald	M.	Pearlman,	M.D.,	Associate	Professor	of	Surgery,	Albert	Einstein	College	of
Medicine.
Patricia	Berland	and	Cindy	Kurtin,	who	swam	through	their	pregnancies.
5
Consultants	for	this	section:
Paul	Katz,	La	Salle	swim	coach	and	former	All-American	butterfly	champion	from	Yale
University,	New	Haven,	Connecticut.
Herbert	Erlanger,	M.D.,	Associate	Clinical	Professor	of	Anesthesiology,	Cornell	Medical
Center,	New	York	Hospital,	New	York.
APPENDIXES
A
PPENDIX	A:
SWIMMERS’	SHAPE-UPS
T
he	best	way	to	improve	your	swimming	is	to	swim.	But	there	are
literally	hundreds	of	exercises,	activities,	and	pieces	of	equipment	that
can	help	you	to	improve	your	strength,	endurance,	and	flexibility	as	well
as	to	add	variety	to	your	fitness	program.	So,	if	you	enjoy	doing	sit-ups,
jumping	jacks,	push-ups,	yoga,	bicycle	riding,	jogging,	and	so	on,	by	all
means	continue	to	do	so.
But	remember	the	principle	of	“specificity	of	training”:	certain
exercises	are	especially	useful	for	swimmers	because	they	concentrate	on
developing	those	skills	and	those	areas	of	the	body	most	important	for
swimming.	Some	of	these	are	done	on	dry	land,	others	can	be	done	in
the	water	(water	exercises),	and	some	use	equipment	such	as	weights
and	resistance	devices.
Whether	you	elect	to	do	your	own	favorite	general	conditioning
exercises	or	the	swimming-specific	exercises	described	below,	or	a
combination	of	both,	remember	that	they’re	an	adjunct	to,	not	a
replacement	for,	swimming.	You	might	incorporate	a	few	of	them	into
the	warm-up	or	cool-down	of	a	swimming	workout.	Or,	on	a
nonswimming	day,	you	could	do	a	relatively	long	dry-land	workout
(though	many	of	the	shape-ups	may	also	be	done	in	the	water,	where
buoyancy	and	water	resistance	add	a	new	dimension).
The	following	exercises	are	mostly	light	strength-building	calisthenics
(ideal	for	warm-ups)	and	stretches.	Many	of	the	stretches	may	be	done
either	as	short,	easy	movements	to	get	the	creaks	out	before	a	swim	or
held	as	a	single,	longer	position	to	get	a	full	stretch.	The	latest	research
shows	that	most	people	are	better	off	reserving	such	full	stretching	for	a
dry-land	cool-down	after	the	rest	of	the	workout,	when	stretching	will
elongate	the	fibers	of	your	muscles	and	counteract	their	tendency	to
tighten	up.	Stretching	after	a	workout	serves	two	purposes:	it	helps
prevent	stiffness	and	soreness	the	next	day,	and	it	increases	your	overall
flexibility,	since	at	this	time	your	body	is	warm	and	oxygenated	and	so
most	accommodating.	The	best	full	stretch	is	a	long,	slow,	static	one
(that	is,	held	steady	with	no	bouncing),	for	thirty	seconds	for	each	of
two	phases.	The	first	phase	is	an	easy	stretch,	during	which	you	totally
relax	while	the	tension	should	actually	diminish.	During	the	second,	or
developmental,	phase,	you	stretch	farther,	but	never	so	that	it’s	painful.
Stretching,	both	in	and	out	of	the	water,	can	be	an	important	asset	to
your	swimming	and	to	your	total	health.	Be	careful	not	to	overdo	it,
though.	Stretching	should	never	be	painful.	If	it	is,	either	stop	or	stretch
more	gently.
L
AND
	E
XERCISES
Tug-of-war
	(stretches	forearms,	chest,	shoulders,	latissimus	dorsi,	or
“lats”;	benefits	all	strokes):	Bend	one	arm	up	behind	your	head	and	the
other	arm	down	behind	your	waist.	Slide	your	hands	between	your
shoulder	blades,	until	the	fingers	touch.	If	you	can,	grasp	one	hand	with
the	other	and	pull	gently	as	in	a	tug-of-war.	Change	arm	positions.	(Use
a	handkerchief	to	extend	your	reach	if	you	can’t	touch	hands	at	first.)
Shoulder	Hang
	(stretches	arms,	shoulders,	and	back;	benefits	all
strokes):	Grasp	a	bar	or	other	sturdy	object,	with	hands	shoulder	width
apart.	Relax	and	just	hang	as	long	as	is	comfortable.
Trunk	Press
	(stretches	chest,	shoulders,	hamstrings,	and	back;	benefits
all	strokes):	Bend	forward	at	the	hips	with	a	straight	back,	resting	your
hands	on	the	back	of	a	chair.	Keep	your	legs	straight	as	you	arch	your
back	and	shoulders	up	and	down	like	a	cat.
Trunk	Twisters
	(good	for	body	roll	used	in	crawl	and	backstroke):
Stand	with	hands	on	your	waist;	twist	your	right	elbow	and	trunk	to	the
left;	return	to	center,	then	twist	to	right.
Torso	Turn
	(good	for	developing	body	roll,	particularly	if	one	side	is
not	as	flexible	as	the	other;	helps	stretch	the	shoulders	and	upper	arms):
Face	a	fixed	object	such	as	a	diving	board	ladder	or	a	lifeguard	stand,
and	grasp	it	with	your	left	hand	at	shoulder	level.	Twist	your	torso	to
look	over	your	right	shoulder,	feeling	the	stretch	in	the	front	of	your
shoulders.	Reverse,	and	repeat.
Knee	Bends
	(strengthens	legs	for	push-offs	during	dives,	starts,	and
turns):	Stand	with	hands	on	your	waist	(or	one	hand	on	chair	back	for
balance).	Bend	your	knees	and	go	down	as	far	as	possible,	keeping	your
heels	planted	on	the	floor.
The	Sky	Is	High	“Plyometrics”
	(strengthens	the	legs	and	increases
their	explosive	power,	which	is	good	for	starts	and	turns):	Rub	some
chalk	on	the	index	finger	of	one	hand.	Stand	next	to	a	wall,	facing	it.
Bend	your	knees	slightly,	then,	raising	both	arms	in	the	air,	jump	as	high
as	you	can,	touching	the	chalked	finger	to	the	wall	to	mark	your	height.
Leave	the	mark	for	future	comparison.
Forward	Lunge
	(stretches	and	strengthens	legs	for	all	kicks,	especially
the	whip	kick):	Lunge	forward	like	a	fencer,	with	one	foot	well	in	front
of	the	other.	Facing	in	the	direction	of	the	forward	foot,	press	your	hips
forward	and	down	toward	the	floor.	Change	legs.
Kneeling	Arch
	(stretches	toes,	feet,	and	ankles	for	all	kicks;	stretches
thighs	for	the	whip	kick):	Kneel	with	legs	hip	width	apart.	Lean	back,
resting	your	weight	on	your	hands,	and	gradually	continue	backward
toward	the	floor,	until	your	weight	is	resting	on	your	elbows.	Eventually
ease	your	back	onto	the	floor	between	your	legs,	keeping	your	knees	on
the	floor.
Bridge
	(stretches	and	strengthens	back,	shoulders,	chest,	and	front	of
thighs;	good	for	all	strokes,	especially	the	butterfly	and	the	backstroke):
Lying	on	your	back,	bend	your	knees	and	place	your	feet	on	the	floor
under	your	buttocks.	Push	your	hips	off	the	floor	to	rest	your	weight	on
your	shoulders,	rolling	up	through	the	pelvis	and	lower	back.	If	you	can,
place	your	hands	palms	down	under	your	shoulders	and	press	yourself
all	the	way	up	into	a	full	arch,	resting	your	weight	on	your	hands	and
feet.	Roll	down	slowly.
Lower	Back	Arch
	(stretches	lower	back	for	dolphin	kick):	Lying	face
down,	bend	your	elbows	and	place	your	hands	palms	down	under	your
shoulders.	Push	up,	arching	your	back	and	looking	up,	keeping	the	pelvis
down.	Roll	down	slowly.
Toe	Touching
	(stretches	back	and	hamstrings;	benefits	all	strokes):
Sitting	on	the	floor,	legs	together	in	front	of	you,	bend	forward	at	the
waist	to	touch	your	toes.	Eventually	try	to	straighten	your	back	and
touch	your	chest	to	your	thighs.
Ankle	Circles
	(good	for	all	kicks;	encourages	whipping	action):	In	a
sitting	position,	rotate	your	feet	from	the	ankle,	aiming	for	full	motion.
Do	one	ankle	at	a	time,	first	clockwise,	then	counterclockwise.	Switch
ankles.
Ankle	Rocking
	(for	additional	ankle	flexibility;	good	for	all	kicks):
Kneel	on	the	floor,	legs	together,	with	the	tops	of	your	feet	against	the
floor.	Sit	down	on	heels;	rest	your	hands	on	your	knees,	stretching	the
toes	and	ankles	by	rocking	forward	and	backward	gently.
Resistance	Devices	for	Swimmers
The	dominance	of	the	East	German	swimmers	in	the	1972	Olympics
began	to	focus	the	spotlight	on	the	benefits	of	weight	training.	Though
we	aren’t	all	Kornelia	Ender,	weight	training,	when	used	properly,	can
result	in	the	added	strength	needed	for	increased	speed	and	endurance
for	all	strokes	and	distances.
In	weight	training,	you	pit	your	strength	against	gravity,	in	the	form
of	a	
free	weight
,	such	as	dumbbells	or	barbells;	modern	stationary	
weight
machines
,	such	as	Universal	and	Nautilus;	
pulley	devices	or	stretch	cords;
or	
swim	benches	and	mini-gyms
.	By	gradually	increasing	the	resistance	of
such	devices	and	the	number	of	times	you	move	them,	you	build	muscle
strength.	Again,	apply	the	principle	of	specificity	of	training,	and
concentrate	on	exercises	that	will	most	help	your	swimming.	For
swimming,	it’s	best	to	use	relatively	light	resistance	and	relatively	high
numbers	of	repetitions	(eight	to	twelve)	within	each	set.	Gradually
increase	the	number	of	sets	to	three,	with	a	thirty-second	rest	between.
Pulleys	and	Stretch	Cords:
	Pulleys,	which	are	often	available	at	gyms
and	health	clubs,	are	cords	attached	to	movable	weights	that	slide	up
and	down	along	a	channel.	Stretch	cords,	one	length	of	elastic	cord	with
a	handle	on	either	end,	are	an	outgrowth	of	pulleys,	and	are	inexpensive
and	easy	to	make.	(To	make	your	own,	buy	a	length	of	surgical	tubing
approximately	twice	as	long	as	you	are	tall.	Make	a	loop	handle	at	each
end	simply	by	doubling	it	back	on	itself	and	tying	a	knot.	When	you’re
ready	to	use	it,	slip	it	through	or	around	a	stationary	object	such	as	an
eyescrew,	doorknob,	pole,	railing,	or	poolside	fence.)
You	can	use	pulleys	and	stretch	cords	in	a	similar	way.	Grasp	one
handle	in	each	hand.	Then,	for	example,	you	can	bend	over	at	the	waist
and	simulate	all	of	the	swimming	arm	motions,	keeping	elbows	high	and
concentrating	on	the	accelerated	phase	2	of	each	stroke.	As	you	pull
through	your	stroke	using	stretch	cords,	the	tension	increases;	for	more
tension	and	a	more	difficult	arm	pull,	stand	farther	away	from	where	it
is	fixed.	A	good	rule	of	thumb	is	to	still	be	able	to	feel	some	resistance
during	the	part	of	the	stroke	cycle	when	your	hands	are	all	the	way
forward.	Here,	more	repetitions	can	be	done—approximately	twenty	per
set,	three	sets	per	stroke,	at	a	faster	pace	than	you	would	swim.
The	Exer-Genie	is	a	device	consisting	of	a	cylinder	through	which	a
rope	passes,	like	a	portable	pulley.	The	adjustable	tension,	which	is
created	by	friction	on	the	rope,	is	especially	good	for	practicing	your
arm	stroke	pulls.
Mini-Gym	and	Isokinetic	Swim	Bench:
	This	whole	line	of	resistance
equipment,	designed	especially	for	swimmers,	lets	you	move	your	arms
through	a	full	range	of	swimming	motions.	The	resistance	automatically
adjusts	to	the	force	applied	by	your	muscles	(an	
isokinetic
	exercise),	so
that,	as	your	arms	tire	and	your	pull	weakens,	the	resistance	also
decreases,	thereby	lessening	the	chance	of	injury.	The	Vasa-Trainer	and
the	Isokinetic	Swim	Bench,	outgrowths	of	the	Mini-Gym	concept,	have
digital	gauges	that	measure	the	force	of	your	pull.
Free	Weights	and	Universal	and	Nautilus	Machines:
	The	principle
behind	all	three	of	these	systems	is	similar,	each	one	having	certain
advantages.	
Individuals	can	easily	buy	or	even	make	their	own	
free
weights—
barbells	and	dumbbells.	This	equipment	is	also	common	at	Ys,
health	clubs,	gyms,	and	fitness	centers.	Swimmers	should	do	tricep
extensions,	bench	presses,	bicep	curls,	seated	presses,	straight-arm	pull-
overs,	knee	bends	(if	your	knees	permit),	leg	presses,	rowing	exercises,
wrist	curls,	and	other	exercises	that	strengthen	the	muscles	used	in
swimming.	Use	of	free	weights	provides	certain	advantages	not	found	in
all	other	weight-training	systems.	Their	use	requires	balance,	develops
neurological	coordination,	permits	free	acceleration	and	deceleration
during	exercise	movement,	and	allows	for	a	full	range	of	motion	and	an
almost	infinite	variety	of	movements.
The	
Universal	Gym
	and	other	similar	systems	are	large,	multi-exercise
systems	of	stationary	weight-lifting	apparatus.	Their	advantages	over
free	weights	are	the	easily	adjustable	resistance,	the	large	number	of
exercises	that	can	be	done	on	one	piece	of	equipment,	and	the	reduced
danger	of	falling	weights.	Although	you	can’t	accomplish	a	full	range	of
swimming	motions,	you	can	use	Universal	to	strengthen	important
swimming	muscle	groups.
Nautilus
,	now	one	of	the	standards	in	weight	training,	is	another
alternative.	Although	you	still	can’t	perform	swimming	motions,
Nautilus	does	allow	you	to	isolate	and	strengthen	individual	muscle
groups.	It’s	also	unique	in	that	it	utilizes	a	cam	device	that	enables	the
resistance	to	vary	with	the	degree	of	muscle	contraction.	Thus,	it
provides	resistance	throughout	the	movement—at	the	beginning,	middle,
and	end.	An	added	plus	is	that	the	apparatus	allows	you	to	move
through	a	full	range	of	motion.
There	are	over	twelve	hundred	fitness	centers	in	America	that	feature
Nautilus	equipment,	including	many	health	clubs.	The	Nautilus	hip	and
back,	pull-over,	and	tricep-extension	machines	are	the	best	for
swimmers.	The	chest	press,	leg	press,	shoulder	press,	arm	curl,	wrist
curl,	leg	extension,	leg	curl,	and	pull	down	are	also	good.
W
ATER
	A
EROBICS
Sometimes	conditions	just	aren’t	ideal	for	a	swimming	workout.	The
pool	may	be	too	crowded	to	swim	laps	comfortably.	You	may	be	away
from	home	and	have	only	a	mini-pool	available.	Maybe	you	have	a	cold
and	
don’t	want	to	put	your	head	in	the	water.	You	could	have	an	injury
that	restricts	the	use	of	your	arms	and	legs.	Or	perhaps	you’re	just	ready
for	a	change	of	pace,	or	a	way	to	vary	your	warm-ups	or	cool-downs.
That’s	the	perfect	time	to	try	a	new	approach	to	body	conditioning:
water	exercises.	These	special	exercises	are	designed	to	take	advantage
of	the	water’s	buoyancy	and	resistance.	Unlike	swimming,	they	keep	you
relatively	in	one	place.	And	water	exercises	can	be	done	by	virtually
anyone,	at	any	level:	by	nonswimmers,	beginning	swimmers,	and
advanced	swimmers,	by	super	athletes	and	by	those	who	are	just	at	the
beginning	of	a	fitness	program.	Some	of	these	are	more	difficult	than
others,	and	many	are	based	on	exercises	I	do	to	practice	synchronized
swimming.	Others	are	slow,	easy	stretches	ideal	for	relaxing,	or	as	the
perfect	finale	to	a	fitness	swim.	Many	can	be	done	in	chest-deep	water,
and	should	be	repeated	for	between	thirty	seconds	and	two	minutes
each.	If	done	as	a	stretch,	the	water	exercise	should	be	done	in	the	same
way	as	a	dry-land	stretch:	in	two	phases,	first	an	easy	one,	followed	by
the	more	demanding	developmental	stretch.
Wall	Kicking
	(tones	the	lower	body;	strengthens	arms	and	chest;
aerobic	benefits	if	you	do	it	long	enough):	This	exercise,	described
earlier	in	the	book,	consists	of	holding	on	to	the	pool	wall	and	practicing
the	flutter	kick,	scissors	kick,	whip	kick,	or	dolphin	kick	in	either	prone
or	supine	position.
Stationary	Pulling
	(tones	arms	and	shoulders;	tightens	buttocks;
practices	arm	motions	of	the	various	strokes):	In	a	prone	position,	hook
your	feet	over	pool	gutter.	Practice	the	arm	motions	of	the	various
strokes,	using	rhythmic	breathing,	alternate	breathing,	and	controlled
breathing.
Stationary	Swimming
:
	There	are	tethered	swim	devices	available	that
harness	your	body	to	a	line	that	prevents	you	from	moving	through	the
water,	and	so	allows	you	to	swim	in	place.	If	you’re	handy,	you	can
make	your	own	stationary	swim	harness	and	affix	it	to	a	pool	ladder.
Bobbing
	(good	all-round	strengthener	and	toner	for	the	lower	body—
and	possibly	the	upper	body,	depending	on	the	variation	used;	aerobic
benefits	if	you	add	a	jumping	action	and	do	it	long	enough):	Bobbing	has
many	variations—your	head	can	stay	above	the	water	or	can	submerge
with	each	bob;	you	can	raise	and	lower	arms	as	you	bob;	or	you	might
add	jumping	action—either	in	place	or	moving	forward,	to	side,	or
backward.	All	bobbing	is	based	on	the	simple	knee	bend:	bend	your
knees	as	you	go	down,	and	straighten	them	as	you	come	up.	This	is	the
basis	of	“plyometrics.”
Alternate	your	legs	front	and	back	in	a	wide	lunging	position,
front	leg	bent	and	back	leg	straight.
Bob	on	one	leg,	keeping	the	other	bent	close	to	chest;	reverse
legs.
Bob	with	both	knees	facing	out	to	the	side	and	away	from	each
other	(like	a	plié).
Treading
	(all-over	toning;	aerobic	benefits	if	done	long	and	vigorously
enough):	This	is	a	kind	of	vertical	swimming;	do	it	in	water	that’s	deep
enough	so	that	your	toes	don’t	hit	bottom.	As	with	bobbing,	there	are
many	variations:
Regular	treading	(see	
this	page
)	is	a	wide,	horizontal	scull	for
the	arms	combined	with	a	bicycle	leg	motion.
Tread	with	a	frog	or	scissors	kick	instead	of	the	bicycle	leg
motion.
Tread	using	dolphin	kick.
Tread,	turning	your	feet	inward	toward	the	center	of	your	body
(“the	egg	beater”).
Using	any	kick,	lift	alternate	arms	vertically	out	of	the	water;
then	lift	both	simultaneously.	When	you	need	to	rest,	do	so	in
the	prone	position	with	limbs	relaxed;	then	continue.
Tug-of-war:	starting	with	your	back	to	pool	wall	for	support,
practice	sculling	with	your	palms	facing	up—this	“support
sculling”	will	cause	your	body	to	move	downward.	Then	move
away	from	wall	and	add	the	“egg-beater”	kick,	which	will	tend
to	push	you	upward	and	counteract	the	downward	“tug”	of	the
support	sculling.
Sculling
	(tones	arms,	chest	muscles	and	abdomen,	buttocks,	back,
thighs	and/or	calves,	depending	on	the	variations	used;	aerobic	benefits
if	done	long	enough):	This	is	a	small	figure-8	motion	done	with	the
hands	near	the	hips,	usually	while	in	a	stationary	supine	position	(see
this	page
).	Keep	legs	straight	and	your	toes	pointed	to	prevent	your	body
from	“sitting”	in	the	water.
Place	both	feet	on	the	edge	of	the	deck,	legs	straight,	with	your
body	in	a	supine	position.	Scull	while	you	lift	each	leg
alternately,	
so	that	it	forms	a	right	angle	with	the	water	and
with	your	body	(the	other	leg	remains	straight,	your	foot
resting	on	the	deck	to	help	support	you).	Eventually,	try	to	do
this	exercise	without	the	wall	for	support.
Repeat	the	above	exercise,	lifting	both	legs	at	the	same	time.
Leg	Sweep
	(stretches	and	tones	the	whole	leg,	the	buttocks,	and	the
lower	back):	Stand	with	one	side	to	the	pool	wall,	holding	on	to	it	with
the	nearer	arm.	Lift	one	leg	forward	and	up.	Straighten	and	extend	the
leg.	Bring	the	leg	straight	down,	through	the	standing	position,	then	as
far	in	back	of	you	as	possible,	keeping	your	legs	straight.	Return	the	leg
to	a	standing	position.	Repeat	with	the	other	leg.
Leg	Circle
	(tones	and	stretches	thighs	and	buttocks;	stretches	lower
back):	Face	the	pool	wall,	holding	on	with	both	hands.	Bring	one	leg	out
to	side,	knee	straight.	Bend	your	knee	and	twist	the	leg	around	behind
you,	trying	to	touch	your	toes	to	the	wall	on	your	other	side.	Repeat	an
equal	number	of	times	with	each	leg.
Lower	Leg	Press
	(stretches	calves	and	lower	legs):	Stand	in	chest-deep
water,	facing	the	pool	wall,	with	your	arms	extended	in	front	of	you	and
your	hands	grasping	the	gutter.	Bend	one	leg	and	place	your	foot	flat	on
the	bottom	in	front	of	you,	keeping	the	other	leg	straight	behind	you.
Slowly	move	your	body	forward	until	you	feel	a	stretch	in	the	calf	of
your	straight	leg.	Reverse	legs.
Wall	Push-ups
	(strengthens	arms,	shoulders,	and	back;	this	is	also	a
good	way	to	exit	the	pool):	Face	the	wall	and	rest	your	palms	on	the
deck	edge,	your	hands	shoulder	width	apart	and	your	elbows	bent.	Bend
your	knees	and	jump	up,	straightening	your	arms	and	lifting	your	body
so	that	your	thighs	rest	on	the	deck	edge.	Contract	your	body	and	hold
for	five	seconds.	Variation:	do	the	exercise	with	your	back	to	the	wall.
Sit-ups
	(tones	abdominal	and	leg	muscles):	With	your	back	to	the	wall,
grasp	the	edge	or	gutter	as	though	you	were	doing	a	supine	flutter-kick
drill.	Bend	and	lift	both	legs	together,	tucking	your	knees	to	your	chest.
(You	can	also	do	this	in	a	supine	position,	holding	a	kickboard	over	your
abdomen.)	Repeat	continuously.
Side-winders
	(strengthens	the	abdominals,	legs,	inner	and	outer
thighs):	Standing	with	your	back	to	wall,	grasp	the	gutter	edge.	Lift	your
legs	in	front	of	you,	keeping	them	straight	and	together,	until	they	are
level	with	the	water	surface.	Then	sweep	your	right	leg	to	the	right,
trying	to	touch	the	wall.	Sweep	your	left	leg	to	the	right	to	meet	it.
Repeat	on	the	other	side.
Push-away
	(tones	and	stretches	legs,	buttocks,	entire	back,	arms,
shoulders):	Face	the	wall,	grasping	the	gutter	with	both	hands.	Bend
your	knees	and	place	both	feet	flat	against	the	wall	just	below	the	water
level	(backstroke-start	position).	Try	to	straighten	your	legs;	hold	for
fifteen	to	thirty	seconds.
Leg	Stretch
	(stretches	the	hamstrings):	Repeat	the	above	exercise,
working	the	legs	individually	by	placing	one	on	the	pool	bottom	as	far
back	behind	you	as	possible,	as	you	straighten	the	other	one.
Side	Stretch
	(tones	and	stretches	inner	thigh,	sides,	shoulders):	Stand
with	one	side	to	the	wall.	Raise	the	near	leg	in	front	of	you	and	hook	the
foot	over	the	gutter.	Keeping	both	legs	straight,	bend	at	the	waist	and
stretch	and	try	to	touch	the	raised	foot	with	the	opposite	hand.	Repeat
on	opposite	side.
Loop-the-Loop
	(back	stretch;	helps	backstroke	start;	improves	breath
control):	Face	the	wall,	grasping	the	edge	with	both	hands.	Bend	your
knees	toward	your	chest	and	place	your	feet	flat	on	the	wall	at	water
level	(backstroke	start	position).	Spring	away	from	the	wall	by
straightening	your	legs;	extend	your	arms	overhead	and	arch	your	back.
Enter	the	water	in	a	back	dive;	then	continue	in	a	smooth,	circular
motion	until	your	hands	touch	bottom.	Maintaining	an	arched,
streamlined	body	position,	push	off	the	bottom	with	your	hands	and
complete	the	circle	as	you	emerge	from	the	water.	(This	should	be	done
in	water	at	least	six	feet	deep,	for	safety’s	sake.)
Arm	Circles
	(tones	upper	arms	and	shoulders):	Crouch	in	the	water	so
that	your	arms	and	shoulders	are	submerged.	Make	tiny	circles	with	both
arms,	first	forward,	then	backward.	(Use	hand	paddles	for	more
resistance.)
Arch	and	Stretch
	(stretches	arms,	shoulders,	and	back):	In	chin-deep
water,	stand	with	your	back	to	the	wall,	your	heels	close	to	it.	Reach
behind	you	and	grasp	the	gutter.	Then	lean	forward,	look	up,	and	arch
your	chest,	pushing	your	hips	forward.	Ease	into	this	position,	then	hold
it	for	fifteen	to	thirty	seconds.	When	this	part	is	easy	for	you,	try	to
“walk”	your	feet	up	the	wall,	keeping	your	legs	straight	for	more	stretch.
Arm	Arcs
	(tones	arms	and	shoulders;	stretches	chest	and	shoulders):
Stand	or	crouch	so	that	your	arms	and	shoulders	are	submerged.	Extend
your	arms	in	front	of	you,	palms	down.	Press	them	down	and	back	in	a
semicircular	motion,	until	the	hands	reach	the	surface	behind	you.	Then
rotate	your	arms	so	that	the	hands	are	palms	down	again,	and	arc	the
arms	forward	to	the	starting	position.	(Using	hand	paddles	increases	the
effect	of	the	water’s	resistance.)
Finale	Stretches
	(for	arms,	shoulders,	back,	and	chest;	these	feel
especially	good	after	a	workout):	In	a	prone	or	supine	position,	interlace
your	fingers,	palms	turned	away	from	you,	and	stretch	overhead—first	to
one	side,	then	to	the	other,	then	straight	overhead.	Another	variation	is
to	stand	in	chest-deep	water;	interlace	your	fingers	behind	your	back,
palms	facing	toward	you.	Keeping	your	arms	straight,	bring	them	up	as
high	as	they’ll	go.
There	are	also	many	new	types	of	resistance	equipment	to	be	used	in
the	water.	You	may	want	to	experiment	with	them	to	vary	your
workouts.
For	information	on	water	exercises,	you	can	read	
The	W.E.T.
Workouts
®
—Water	Exercise	Techniques	(Facts	on	File,	1985),	by	Dr.
Jane	Katz.
D
EEP
-W
ATER
	E
XERCISES

Deep-water	vertical	exercise	attracts	marathoners,	triathletes,	cross-
trainers,	and	runners	for	rehabilitation	because	deep-water	aerobics
provides	them	with	the	opportunity	to	maintain	their	physical
conditioning	and	specificity	of	training	while	preventing	overuse	injury.
Flotation	devices	are	generally	used	with	deep-water	exercise	in	order
to	provide	a	“neutral	buoyancy”	position	to	keep	your	chin	out	of	the
water.	This	enables	you	to	jog	in	deep	water,	and	concentrate	on
running	form,	regardless	of	your	swimming	ability.	Most	notable	among
these	devices	are	the	rubber	flotation	belts,	like	the	“AquaJogger”	and
the	“Wet	Vest,”	a	lightweight,	snug-fitting	vest	made	of	neophrene,
which	keeps	you	upright	as	well	as	buoyant.	A	tether	rope	can	also	be
attached	to	a	
poolside	anchor	and	can	allow	you	to	jog	in	a	small
shallow	or	deep	area,	and	to	simulate	sprint	running	in	the	water.
Samples	of	deep	water	exercises	include:
Deep-water	Running
Keep	your	elbows	close	to	your	body,	moving	your	arms	in	opposition	to
your	legs.	Maintain	your	body	posture,	and	practice	your	running	form.
Hurdles
Simulate	running	a	hurdle	course.	Begin	with	your	knees	together	under
your	body.	Then	your	front	leg	extends	straight	forward,	and	your	rear
leg	is	bent	behind	you.	Return	to	the	bent-knee	position	under	your
body,	and	repeat	with	opposite	leg	forward.
Cross-country	Skiing
Simulate	cross-country	skiing	with	arms	and	legs	in	opposition.	Aim	for
increased	range	of	motion,	forward	and	back;	keep	your	range	of	motion
as	extended	and	equidistant	as	possible.
Training	Tips:
	With	a	pace	clock	or	wristwatch,	count	the	number	of
strides	you	take	in	a	given	time	period	(cadence	check).	Rest,	repeat,	and
try	to	increase	the	number	each	time.	You	can	also	Interval	train	by
simulating	a	running	workout	with	sets	of	fast	and	slow	runs	(fartlek
method).
In	addition	to	conventional	pools,	compact	pools	with	artificial
currents,	as	well	as	one-lane	lap	pools	(both	shallow	and	deep),	extend
possibilities	for	water	aerobics,	and	are	a	consideration	for	homeowners.
A
PPENDIX	B
SAFE	SWIMMING
E
very	swimming	pool,	beach,	or	watering	hole	is	unique.	Become
familiar	with	your	surroundings	every	time	you’re	in	a	new	situation.
Realize	that,	even	if	there	is	a	lifeguard,	
you
	are	an	extra	pair	of	eyes.
The	first	and	best	rule	to	remember	is	to	use	common	sense,	and	try	not
to	panic	in	case	of	emergency.	For	more	information	on	water	safety,
contact	your	local	American	National	Red	Cross	chapter	on	the	U.	S.
Coast	Guard.	The	Red	Cross	and	the	Ys	also	teach	lifesaving	courses.
Here	are	some	water	safety	tips:
Never	swim	alone—there	should	be	at	least	one	other	person
around	at	all	times.	Half	the	people	who	drown	were	swimming
alone.
Avoid	alcoholic	beverages	when	swimming	(or	boating)—
nearly	half	of	the	people	who	drown	have	alcohol	in	the
bloodstream.
In	open	water,	check	with	the	lifeguard	or	beach	patrol	for
information	about	tides,	currents,	depths,	and	so	on.	Don’t
guess.
If	you’re	a	shallow-water	swimmer,	observe	the	water-depth
markers.
Obey	posted	rules	and	regulations;	swim	or	dive	only	in
designated	areas.
Make	sure	there	are	no	swimmers	nearby	before	you	jump	or
dive	into	the	water.	Only	one	person	should	use	a	diving
platform	at	a	time.	Always	be	aware	of	other	swimmers	around
you	to	avoid	collisions.
Swim	after	dark	only	if	the	area	is	properly	lit	and	if	a	buddy	or
lifeguard	is	present.
Avoid	eating	a	heavy	meal	before	swimming	strenuously.
Don’t	jump	into	cool	water	if	you’re	overheated,	since	this	may
cause	cramps.	Cool	off	first.
If	you	do	get	a	cramp,	stretch	the	muscle	and	knead	the	area
with	your	thumb,	alternating	direct	pressure	and	release	until
the	cramp	goes	away.
Only	trained	lifesavers	should	attempt	a	swimming	rescue.
However,	you	can	help	with	nonswimming	rescues	in	the
following	way:	extend	a	pole,	branch,	leg,	arm,	oar,	towel,	or
article	of	clothing	to	the	victim.	As	you	pull	him	or	her	to
safety,	stay	low,	keeping	your	weight	back	to	prevent	being
pulled	into	the	water	yourself.	If	the	swimmer	is	farther	away,
toss	a	life	preserver	(or	anything	that	floats)	to	support	him	or
her	as	you	call	for	help.	Even	non-swimmers	can	save	a	life	this
way.	The	last	thing	even	qualified	rescuers	do	is	jump	into	the
water;	and	just	because	you	may	know	some	components	of
rescue-life	skills,	such	as	the	scissors	kick,	it	doesn’t	mean	that
you	are	qualified	to	attempt	a	rescue.
Leave	the	water	as	soon	as	you	feel	chilly.	Numb	or	blue	fingers
and	toes	mean	you’ve	been	in	too	long,	and	can	signal	the
approach	of	hypothermia.
SCUBA	diving	(Self-Contained	Underwater	Breathing
Apparatus)	is	not	the	same	as	swimming.	So	before	you	venture
out	into	Jacques	Cousteau	territory,	take	a	course	of
instruction.	(Skin	diving—the	use	of	fins,	mask,	and	snorkel—
can	be	learned	relatively	quickly.)
Get	training	in	basic	first	aid	and	cardiopulmonary	resuscitation
(the	ABC’s	of	CPR).
A
PPENDIX	C:
FOR	THE	RECORD
S
PECIAL
	S
WIMS
Once	you’re	swimming	regularly,	you	may	want	to	keep	track	of	your
progress	and	set	some	long-term	goals	for	yourself.	Competitive
swimming	is	one	way	to	do	this.	Here	are	several	alternatives.
The	American	National	Red	Cross	50-Mile	Swim	and	Stay	Fit
Program:
	As	the	Red	Cross	says,	it’s	“not	a	marathon,	not	a	race,	not
competitive,	not	an	endurance	contest”;	this	is	simply	a	very	satisfying
way	the	Red	Cross	has	designed	to	encourage	regular	swimming.	You
simply	keep	a	running	total	of	the	number	of	miles	you’ve	swum	to	date,
by	filling	in	each	swim	on	a	chart	posted	at	your	pool.	This	self-
administered	program	is	run	on	the	honor	system,	although	there	may
be	a	“pool	monitor.”	Usually,	the	fifty	miles	are	accomplished	quite
gradually;	if	you	do	it	in	440-yard	(quarter-mile)	segments,	it	would
amount	to	200	swims,	or	about	70	weeks.	The	Red	Cross	awards	wallet-
sized	certificates	in	10-mile	units;	at	the	end	of	the	50	miles,	you	get	a
larger	certificate.	For	a	small	fee,	you	can	also	obtain	a	pin	and	a	patch
to	commemorate	your	feat.	Many	swimmers	complete	the	distance,	then
enroll	again	to	try	to	finish	in	less	time.
28-Mile	Manhattan	Island	and	300-Mile	Three-Island	Swims:
Manhattan	is	a	nice	place	to	visit,	you	say,	but	you	wouldn’t	want	to
swim	around	it.	This	cumulative	swim	converts	your	own	pool	mileage
into	an	imagined	trip	around	Manhattan	Island.	A	longer	version,	the
300-mile	
“Three-Island	Swim”	(around	Manhattan,	Staten	Island,	and
Long	Island),	works	the	same	way.	Both	of	these	swims	are	sponsored	by
the	Greater	New	York	American	Red	Cross	Chapter.	An	accompanying
map	(on	
this	page
)	notes	various	attractions	for	the	“Three-Island
Swim.”	Try	it,	you’ll	like	it!
Your	Personalized	Swim	and	Stay	Fit	Program:
	You	can	make	up
your	own	program	of	whatever	distance	you	like.	Swim	to	your	sister’s
house	on	the	other	side	of	town,	around	your	state,	down	the
Mississippi,	or	to	Rome—all	on	paper.	For	her	famous	swim,	Dr.	Joyce
Brothers	decided	to	“swim”	to	her	daughter’s	college.
Swim-a-thons	for	raising	cash:
	In	addition	to	neighborhood	cake
sales,	swim	for	dollars	to	raise	money	for	your	favorite	charity.
Participating	swimmers	(of	all	ages	and	levels)	can	go	out	and	hustle	up
financial	support	in	the	form	of	pledges	from	sponsors.
The	International	Swimming	Hall	of	Fame	(address	on	
this	page
)	will
help	you	sponsor	a	swim-a-thon	in	your	community.
Distance	and	Timed	Swims:	(Half-hour	and	One-hour	Postal	Swims):
This	event,	the	object	of	which	is	to	see	who	can	swim	the	greatest
distance	in	an	hour,	gives	you	the	opportunity	to	compete	without	the
expense	and	inconvenience	of	traveling	to	a	meet.	After	your	swim,	in
any	25-yard	or	50-meter	pool,	you	simply	mail	in	the	results	on	an
official	entry	blank	for	tabulation	(hence	the	term	“postal	swim”).	You
can	swim	either	as	an	individual	or	as	part	of	a	team.	Meet	results	and
awards	will	be	mailed	to	you.	These	Masters	postal	swims	are	held
annually,	and	others	are	cropping	up.
Swim	and	Stay	Fit	Health	and	Safety

C
ONVERTING
	M
ETERS	TO
	Y
ARDS
A	meter	is	approximately	10	percent	longer	than	a	yard;	thus:
The	Basics
1	meter	=	39.37	inches
1	yard	=	.9144	meters
3	meters	=	10	feet
50	meters	=	55	yards
100	meters	=	110	yards
400	meters	=	440	yards	(¼	mile)
800	meters	=	880	yards	(½	mile)
1,500	meters	=	1,650	yards
1,600	meters	=	1,760	yards	(1	mile)	
In	a	20-yard	pool:
¼
	mile	is	22	laps	(440	yards)	½	mile	is	44	laps
(880	yards)
1	mile	is	88	laps	(1,760	yards)	
In	a	25-yard
pool:
¼
	mile	is	18	laps	(450	yards)	½	mile	is	36	laps
(900	yards)
1	mile	is	70	laps	(1,750	yards)	
In	a	25-meter
pool:
¼
	mile	is	16	laps	(400	meters)	½	mile	is	32
laps	(800	meters)
1	mile	is	64	laps	(1,600	meters)	
In	a	33⅓-yard
pool:
¼
	mile	is	13	laps	(433	yards)	½	mile	is	26	laps
(866	yards)
1	mile	is	52	laps	(1,732	yards)	
In	a	50-
meter/55-yard	pool:
¼
	mile	is	8	laps	(400	meters)	½	mile	is	16	laps
(800	meters)
1	mile	is	32	laps	(1,600	meters)
A
PPENDIX	D:
FOR	YOUR	RECORD
F
UNDAMENTALS	OF
	S
WIMMING
	C
HECKLIST
Check	off	each	skill	as	you	feel	you’ve	mastered	it.

SWIMMERS’	SHAPE-UP	LOG
	(Calisthenics,	Water	Exercises,	Resistance	Training)
WORKOUT	LOG
GOALS	AND	BEST	TIMES
TIMED	SWIM	LOG
